THIRD DIVISION.

OF JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS, IN CASES AT COMMON LAW,
IN CI-IANCERY, UNDER SPECIAL STATUTES, AND
BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

TITLE FIRST.

OF THE POWER AND JURISDICTION OF THE CIRCUIT
COURTS, AND OF THE ADMISSION OF ATTORNEYS

AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE POWER AND JURISDICTION OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

SECT. 1. Of the Jurisdiction.

1. THE Circuit Courts shall have original jurisdiction in all
matters, civil and criminal, within this State, not otherwise excepted in the Constitution. (ti)

2. The said Circuit Courts, respectively, shall have and exercise
the original and appellate jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution
of this State, and all original and appellate jurisdiction had by _the
Superior Courts of the several districts of the Territory of Florida,
and of the County Courts of the several counties of the Territory
under the laws of the Territory, not inconsistent with the Constitution of this State. (5)

SECT. 2. Jurisdiction of the former Superior and County Courts
of the Territory.

1. The Superior Courts of the Territory of Florida, within their
respective districts, shall have and exercise original jurisdiction in
all civil causes in law and equity, whether arising under the laws
of the said Territory or otherwise, where the sum 111 controversy
shall amount to one hundred dollars ; and shall have and exercise
appellate jurisdiction, in all civil causes, originating in the inferior
Courts of said Territory, whatever may be the amount in controversy ; and shall have and exercise original and exclusive jurisdiction of all crimes and offenses committed against the laws of the
said Territory, where the punishment shall be death; and original
and appellate jurisdiction of all other crimes and offenses against
the laws of the said Territory. (5)

2. The Superior and County Courts shall be Courts of Record,
and have full power and authority to hear and determine all causes,

,both civil and criminal, of which they shall severally have jurisdiction, according to the laws of the United States and of this Territory, to administer oaths, make rules, pass orders and decrees, and
give such judgments as may be necessary to support their authority,
to punish for contempts by line or imprisonment, and not otherwise; the fine in any case not to exceed one hundred dollars, or
the imprisonment thirty days; and shall exercise all the necessary
powers appertaining to their jurisdictions, respectively, according
to law. (d)

3. The County Courts of this Territory shall be Courts of «
Record, and shall, within their respective counties, have and exer-‘*
cise original jurisdiction over all cases where the sum, debt,
damages, or matters in demand or controversy, shall be above
lifty, and not above one thousand dollars; and in all cases above
one thousand dollars, where the Judge of the Superior Court, in
his own judicial district, is a party, either plaintifff ordefendant, or
where such Judge cannot, for any other cause, take cognizance of
the suit, the said Court shall have also apppellate jurisdiction over
the judgment of any Justice of the Peace; the case on every such
appeal to be tried anew upon its merits, but without requiring
written pleadings; no appeal from any Justice’s Court shall be
allowed, when the sum in demand or controversy does not exceed
ten dollars, except for matters of law apparent of record ; and in
every such case the trial in the County Court shall be upon, and
by inspection of record ; and writs of error, certiorari, mandamus,
and prohibition shall issue from the County Court to any J ustice’s
Court, which shall be tested by the Judge awarding the same. (e)

4. The jurisdiction of the Territory of Florida, in Monroe

County, shall extend to all ships, vessels, and boats, of any description whatsoever, and to persons found on board of any such ship,
vessel, or boat, lying or being on or Within islands, reefs, bays,
anchorages, and harbors, on the sea-coast of said county, from the
northeastern boundary of the same to the westernmost of the Florida
islands, and to the boundary line of said county on the northeast of
Charlotte Harbor to Cape Florida; and it shall and may be lawful
for any Judge or Justice of the Peace to issue any writ or process
against any person or persons on board of any vessels or boats as
aforesaid, and to direct the same to any marshal, sheriff, or constable, whose duty it shall be to serve the same; and the services
of any writ or process as aforesaid, made by any oilicer in said
county, shall be legal and valid in law. (6)

SECT. 3. Of Contempts of Court.

1. A refusal to obey any legal order, mandate, or decree, made
or given by any Judge of the Superior or County Court, either in
term time or in vacation, relative to any of the business of said
Court, after due notice thereof, shall be considered a contempt,
and punished accordingly : Promided, that any thing said or
written, or published, in vacation, to, or of any Judge, or of any
decision made by a Judge, shall not, in any case, be construed to
be a contempt. (f)

SECT. 4. Of the Adjournment of Court.

1. When any Judge shall not attend on the first day of any
’term, the Court shall stand adjourned until twelve o’clock on the
second day; and, if said Judge shall not then attend, it shall be
the duty of the clerk, at that time, to continue all causes, and adjourn the Court to such time as the Judge may appoint, or to the
next regular term, by law established. (g)

CHAPTER II.

OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS AT LAW.

SECT. 1. Of their Admission and License.

1. FROM and after the first day of March next, no person shall
Qbe permitted to appear as an attorney and counsellor at law in any
cause in the Courts of this State, until he shall have produced to
the Court in which he proposes to practise, a license signed by one

of the Judges of the Circuit Courts, or a certificate under the
hand and seal of a clerk of some one of the Circuit Courts of the
United States, of his having been admitted to practise in said
Circuit Court, which license or certificate shall be entered upon
the minutes of the Court, in which the said attorney wishes to
practise, and the original returned by the clerk to said attorney.
It

(  It shall be the duty of any person, wishing-. to obtain a license to practise law in the Courts of this State, to present to one
of the Judges of said Circuit Courts satisfactory evidence of good
moral character, and that he is twenty-one years of age; whereupon the Judge shall examine into the qualifications of the applicant, and if found qualified, he shall grant him a license to practise
in the several Courts of this State, which license shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Courts, as is prescribed in the preceding
section. (5)

3. If an application shall be made to any of the Judges of said
Circuit Courts in term time, by any person, for a license to practise in said Courts, or if, from any other cause, it shall be inconvenient for said Judge personally to examine into the qualifications
of the applicant, he may require the examination to be made by
two members of the bar, who shall be previously sworn, faithfully
to examine and report as to the qualifications of the applicant, and
if they shall report to him that the said applicant is qualified to
practise in said Courts, such examination shall be as effectual as
though it had been made by said Judge in person. (It)

4. No person shall be permitted to practise in any of said Courts ‘
until he shall have taken an oath to support the Constitution of the
United States, and honestly to demean himself in his profession,
and exercise the duties thereof, to the best of his skill and
abilities. (I)

5. Marshals, sheriffs, clerks of Courts, and their deputies shall,
not be permitted to practise law in any of said Courts, nor shall
any person convicted of an infamous crime be permitted to practise
therein. (m)

6. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent anypersonfrom managing his own cause, in any of the Courts of this‘
State. (73)

7. If any attorney shall collect money for his employers, and refuse to pay it over on demand, he shall be stricken from the list of
attorneys, and shall not be allowed to practise within this State
until he shall pay over the money to his client or legal representative, and he shall also be liable to a suit for the same, and subject

TITLE SECOND.

OF PROCEEDINGS AT COMMON LAW IN CIVIL CASES.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS, OF PROCESS, AND THE SERVICE AND RETURN OF THE SAME.

Seed‘. 1. Of; the Commencement of Suits by Summons.

1. WHEN any person wishes to commence an action in any of
said Courts, he shall have the right to sue out his process, either
against the person or the estate of the defendant, according to the
rules prescribed by law; and when the same is intended to be
sued out against the person of the defendant, it shall be the duty
of the plaintifff, or his attorney, to deliver to the clerk of the Court,
in which the suit is to be commenced, a prcecipe or memorandum,
stating the names of the parties, the nature of the action, and the
amount of the debt or damages for which he sues; which prmcipe
shall be signed by the plaintifff or his attorney ; and it shall be the
duty of the clerk, upon the receipt of such prcecipe or memorandum, to make out therefrom a writ of copies, or a summons ad
respondendum, which shall be called the original, and which shall
be served by the sheriff, or other officer, as the case may be, at

least ten days before the first day of the term to which the same
is made returnable. (ta)

2. It shall be the duty of the clerks of said Courts to transcribe
into their memorandum books, any prcecipe filed with them pre-I

vious to their issuing the original writ or summons, and to make in
said books a similar memorandum of every cause commenced by
attachment, as aforesaid; which prcecaipe or memorandum shall
bear date on the day when the said prcecipe is received by the
clerk, or when the affidavit is filed with him, to obtain a process

against the estate of the defendant; and the said dates shall, for

all legal purposes, be considered the true time at which said suits
were actually brought. ('0)

3. The style of all process shall be “ The State of Florida.” (w)

4. All process shall run in the name of the State of Florida,
shall bear test in the name of the clerk issuing it, be signed by
said clerk, and bear date when issued, and when not otherwise

I provided by law, shall be made returnable to the next ensuing
' term of the Court whence it was issued. Summons ad respondendum shall be made returnable to the Court having jurisdiction over
-the county in which the defendant resides or the cause of action
accrued, and the cause shall not be tried in any other county,
unless for good cause the venue shall be changed, except in cases
brought against two or more defendants residing in different circuits or counties, when it shall be lawful for the plaintifff or cornplainant, or his agent or attorney, to commence his action in either
circuit or county in which the other defendant resides, and it shall
be the duty of such officer, upon the receipt of such writ, (provided his fees are previously tendered by the plaintifff,) to serve the
same and to return it to the office from which it issued. (3)
. 5. Infants may sue by their next friends in all cases whatsoever,
' and idiots and lnnatics, by their guardians : Provided, that before
any suit be brought by the next friend, it shall be his or her duty
to file bond and security with the clerk, conditioned to appropriate
the amount which may be recovered in said suit, (after the expenses of recovering the same are paid,) to the use and benefit of
said infant. 

6. In all and every species of actions commenced in any of the
Courts of the State having jurisdiction thereof, if the defendant
or defendants shall remove out of the county where the action was
commenced, and the same shall be certified by the sheriff or other
officer to whom the process was directed, it shall be lawful to issue
an alias writ or summons, and every other legal process necessary
to enforce the appearance of such defendant or defendants, directed to the sheriff or other proper officer of any county in this

State. 

SECT. 2. Of the Service and Return of the Summons.

1. The service of the original writ or summons, shall be
effected by reading the writ or summons to the defendant, or delivering him a copy thereof, or leaving such copy at his usual place
of abode, with some person of the family above the age of fifteen
years, and informing such person of the contents thereof; and no
person shall be required to give bail for his or her appearance, to
any original writ or summons emanating from a Court of law. (a)

2. When any original process is placed in the hands of the
sheriff, or other officer, for service, and he shall, from any cause,
fail to execute the same, at least ten days before the ensuing term
of the Court to which the same is returnable, it shall be his duty
to return the same “not executed,” with the reasons for such

failure; and if such reasons be insufficient, such officer shall be
liable to a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, at the discretion of the
Court, and shall also be liable to the _party injured for all costs and
damages thereby incurred and sustained ; and if any original process shall be sued out within ten days of the then ensuing term of
the Court, the same shall be made returnable to the term next
ensuing after the expiration of the said ten days, and not otherwise. b

3. \(?Viien an original writ or summons has been sued out against
two or more defendants, and returned by the sheriff, or other‘
officer, served upon one or more of the defendants, and that -the
other defendants do not reside in said district or county, as the
case inlay be, (iit shall be lawfulh for the ~plali1ntiff, at his 0l[1)l'.l0I£, to
procee to ju gment a ainst t ose upon w om process as een
served, or to obtain frogi the Court time to perfect service, and to
order additional originals and copies, to be directed to the sheriffs
of the counties in which the other defendants reside, to be served
and returned as is directed in this act. (c)

4. When any original process is sued out against several persons composing a mercanfile or other firm, the service of said‘
process on any one member of said firm shall be as valid as if
served upon each individual member thereof; and the plaintifff
may, after service upon any one member as aforesaid, proceed to
judgment and execution against them all. (cl)

5. The coroners, in the respective counties of this State, shall«
act in cases where the sheriff of a. county is interested; and in‘
cases of necessity, the Judge of the circuit may appoint an elisar‘
to act in such case instead of a sheriff or coroner. (6)

6. The sheriffs, and other officers in this State shall, in all‘
cases note, upon process issuing from the offices of the clerks of‘
the Circuit and Probate Courts, the time when the same came to,
hand, the time when it was executed, and sign the same, and one
{'ai1ur(eft;iereof, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dolars.

'7. No person or persons, upon the first day of the week, called 1
Sunday, shall serve or execute, or cause to be served or executed, ‘
any writ, process, or warrant, order, judgment, or decree, except:
in criminal cases, or for a breach of the peace; but the service of
every such process, order, warrant, judgment, or decree, shall be
void to all intents and purposes whatsoever; and the person or
persons so serving or executing the same, shall be liable to the suit
of the party aggrieved, and to answer damages to him for so doin
thereof as if He or the had done th ' ll ' g

. _ y e same wit out any writ, process, warrant, order, judgment, or decree : Provided, that if information shall be made by the oaths of two respectable persons to

any Justice of the Peace, or magistrate of any corporate town,
that they have good reason to believe that any person liable to have
any such process, warrant, judgment, or decree, served upon him,
intends to withdraw himself, and escape from this ‘State under
cover of protection of the said first day of the week, called Sunday, in that case it shall be lawful for any officer duly authorized,
being furnished with a certificate of such information, upon oath
as aforesaid, under the hand of the Justice of the Peace, or magistrate, as aforesaid, to serve or execute such process, warrant,
order, judgment, or decree, on the said first day of the week,
called Sunday, which shall be as valid and effectually done to all

legal intents and purposes, as if the same had been done on any
other day of the week. (g)

SECT. 3. Of the Service and Return of Process on Corporations.

1. In original process issued against any corporation, service
upon the agent of said corporation shall be valid; and the plaintifff,
after such service, may proceed to judgment and execution : Pravided, the corporation is not a body politic within this State. (It)

2. In all actions or suits which may be instituted against any

"corporation, instead of the process heretofore used to compel the

appearance of such corporation, it shall be sufficient to issue a
summons to the sheriff, or other proper oiiicer, reciting the cause
of action, and summoning the said corporation to appear and
answer the same on the proper return day, which summons shall
be returnable in the manner and subject to the same rules and
regulations as other original process. 

3. If a summons shall be issued as aforesaid, against any bank'ing, rail-road, insurance, or incorporated company, service on the

president or other head, or, in his absence, on the cashier or treasurer, or, in the absence of both the president or chief officer and
the cashier or treasurer, then on any director of such company,
such president or other chief officer, cashier, treasurer, or director,
being at the time of service within the county in which he usually
resides, shall be deemed sufficient service of the said process, and
if the summons be issued against the corporation of any city, borough, or town, service on the mayor or chief magistrate, or, in his
absence, on the recorder, or, in the absence of the mayor, chief
magistrate, and recorder, then on any alderman of the corporation,
such mayor, chief magistrate, recorder, alderman, or other officer,
being at the time of service within the limits of such corporation,
shall also be deemed suiiicient; and in like manner, the service of
such summons on the president, or, in his absence, on any visitor
or trustee of any incorporated college or academy, or on the chief
officer of any corporation whatever; or, for want of such chief

officer, on any member of such corporation, such president, visitor,
trustee, chief officer, or other member, being at the time of service
within the county in which he usually resides, shall be deemed
sufficient service of such summons; and on the return of such
summons, in any of the said cases, the same proceedings to a final
judgment shall be had against such corporation, as are had in other
suits at law after the return of a summons ad respondendum executed;
on every summons served as aforesaid, the sheriff or other proper
officer shall make return distinctly on whom the same hath been
executed, otherwise such service shall not be deemed valid. (Ir)

SECT. 4. Regulations in case of tire Death, Removal or Resignation of Sher% and of his failure to attend Court.

1. When any sheriff of any county in this State shall die, his
executors, administrators, or other representatives, shall hand over
to his successors in office, taking a receipt for the same, all the
papers in the possession of, and belonging to, such decedant, as
sheriff; and if, in any case, a successor should not be qualified, in
due time, to serve or execute the process of the Court, the deputy
of such deceased sheriff, if there should be one, or some other per-son, shall be employed by an order from the Judge of the Circuit‘
Court, to receive from the representatives of the decedant, and execute all process which remained in his possession at the time of
his decease. (m) ‘

2. The sheriffs of each county shall, at the expiration of their:
respective terms of office, turn over to their successors, by schedule, I
(taking their receipts for the same,) all such writs and processes ast
shall remain in their hands unexecuted, and their successors in office
shall duly execute and return the same; and in case any sheriff
shall neglect or refuse to turn over such process in manner aforesaid, every such sheriff so neglecting or refusing, and their securities, shall be liable to make such satisfaction, by damage and costs,
to the party aggrieved, as he, she, or they, shall sustain by reason
of such neglect or refusal; and every sheriff, at the expiration of
his said appointment, shall also deliver up to his successor, the
bodies of all persons which he holds in confinement by legal process, with the precepts, warrants, or causes of such confinement;
and the succeeding sheriff shall be empowered, and is hereby requrred, to sell, and carry into effect any levy made by his predeces.
801' in office, in like manner as the former sheriff could have done
had he continued therein; and shall make titles to the purchasers:
for all the property sold under execution, or other process, and not
conveyed by his predecessor. (rt)

. 3. If from any cause the sheriff shall fail to attend any term of
the C1rcu1t Court, either in person or by deputy, the said Court

shall direct the coroner of the county to attend and perform the duties of the sheriff of said Court; and the said coroner shall be entitled to receive for his services five dollars for each day he shall

' attend during the continuance of the term, to be paid by the sheriff

failing to attend as aforesaid, and which may be recovered in any
Court having jurisdiction of the same; and shall, moreover, also
be entitled to the fees allowed by law for any services performed
by him, while acting as aforesaid; and the acts of the said coroner,
done as aforesaid, shall be as legal and valid, as if the same had
been performed by the said sheriff in person, or by deputy duly
appointed. (0)

CHAPTER II.

OF PLEADING, CHANGE OF VENUE, AND ABATEMENT OF SUITS, ETC.

SECT. 1. Of Pleading.

I. IN all actions brought to any of the Circuit Courts of this
State, whether the same be commenced by original process against
the person, or against the estate of the defendant, it shall be the
duty of the plaintifff or his attorney, to file with the clerk his declaration on or before the first day of the term to which his action
is made returnable; and it shall be the duty of the defendant or
his attorney, to plead, answer, or demur thereto, previous to the
calling of the appearance docket at the same term ; if a demurrer
be liled to said plaintifff ’s declaration, it shall be the duty of the
defendant or his attorney, to give notice thereof to the plaintifff or
his attorney, in time to take issue thereon before the calling of the
appearance docket; and the said demurrer shall be argued when
the cause is called up on the appearance docket as aforesaid, and
decided at the same term, unless the Court shall think proper to
continue it until the ensuing term, and all other issues shall be
made up by the time the case is called in its order for trial. (39)

‘.3. When the name of any attorney of the Court is placed upon
the appearance docket as counsel for the defendant, it shall be
considered so far equivalent to filing the general issue, as to prevent a judgment by default, though no plea or answer be in fact
filed in said cause. (r)

3. No plea in abatement or other dilatory plea, or any plea denying the signature of a defendant to any bond, note, or other instrument of writing, shall be received by either of said Courts,
unless the same be put in on oath, and filed before the cause IS

called upon the appearance docket. (s)

4. All promissory notes and ofther ins1(:1rumHents of ilyritgug not;
under seal shall have the same orce an e ect as on s an
instrunientsunder seal; and it shall not be necessary ‘for the plaintifff‘ to prove the execution of any bond, note, or other instrument of
writing, purporting to have been signed‘ by the defendant, nor the}
consideration for_which the saimguwéts givfen, unlcpss 1t)he sacpig sliall
be denied by plea put in an e as a oresai : ram .3 , t at;
nothing in this act shall prevent an executor or administrator from‘
denying the execution aforgsaid, or. from pleading a Wiglllt or failurg
of consideration, if he shal give in writing reasona e notice o
such intention to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney. (at)

5. No declaration or other pleading shall be abated or quashed:
for any defect in matter of form, nor for any clerical mistake or‘
omission not affecting the real merits of the cause; but the same,
upon motion may be amended without delay or cost if there be a
good and sufficient cause of action or of defense siibstantially set
forth in the declaration or other pleadings. (u)

6. In all cases the defendant or defendants may plead as many
matters of law or fact, as he, she or they may deem necessary tol
his, her, or their defense; and it shall be no objection to any pleai
that it is contradictory to any other plea filed by the same party in
the same cause. ('0)

'7. No demurrer either at law or in equity shall be considered
as an admission ofithe facts set forth in the pleadings demurred to,5
so as to bar the person demurring from any substantial claim or
defense which he might have urged if said demurrer had not been
filed. 

8. All bonds notes bills of exchange covenants and accounts
upon which siiit may be brought, or a dopy thereof, shall be filed
with the declaration. (:22)

9. In all actions of trespass quare clausumfregit hereafter to be
brought where the defendant or defendants shall disclaim in his or:
her plea’, any title or claim to the land in which the trespass is supposed to be done by the declaration, and the trespass be by negligence,
or involuntary, the defendant or defendants shall be admitted to plead
a disclaimer, and that the trespass was by negligence or involuntary, and a tender, or other offer of sufficient amends for such trespass, before the action brou ht, whereupon, or upon some of them,
the plaintifff or plaintifffs shal% be compelled to join issue, and if the
said issue he found for the defendant or defendants, the plaintifff or
plaintiffI"s shall be nonsuited, and no suit shall ever be maintained

or the same. 

1_0. If in an action at law, the plaintiff omit to take judgment
against a defendant or defendants, for failing to plead, when by the
foregoing provisions he might so take judgment, the defendant or

defendants may at any time, before a writ _of inquiry is awarded
and final judgment given, plead any pleas the filing of which is not
by this act limited to the first term, but where such plea or pleas
are filed, the plaintifff may waive his right of trial at that term, and
have a general continuance of the cause. (2)

1 1. Printed copies of private acts of the General Assembly may
be given in evidence in any judicial proceeding, without being
specially pleaded. (zz)

Sam‘. 2. Of Amendment, 6-6.

1. The Court may, in its discretion, give leave to a party to
amend his declaration, or other pleading, in a cause at any time
before the case is submitted to a jury: Provided, that the party
asking the privilege shall be required to make his or her amendment instanter: And provided, also, that if the proposed amendment be in matter of substance, and not of form, the other party
shall have the right to claim a continuance. (01)

Seer. 3. Of the Abatement of Suits.

1. No suit in any of said Courts shall abate by the death of
either party, where the cause of action would in any case survive to the executor or administrator; but the same shall proceed as if such party had not died, under the following regulations and restrictions: when a plaintifff shall die, the executor or
administrator of such plaintifff shall, within three months after
probate of the will, or taking out letters of administration, give
notice to the defendants by suing out a scire facias, to be issued
by the clerk, and executed in the manner hereinbefore pointed out
for the service of process ; and in cases where the defendant shall
die, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to sue out a scire facias in
manner aforesaid, immediately after the expiration of six months,
requiring such executor or administrator to appear and answer to
the said cause. (6) _

2. When any co-partner of a mercanfile or other firm shall d_1e
during the pendency of any suit, either in favor of, or against said
firm, the same shall be suggested of record, and the cause shall
proceed in the name of the survivor or survivors. (c)

3. Hereafter, all actions for personal injuries shall die with the
person, to wit : assault and batteries, slander, false imprisonment,
and malicious prosecutions; all other actions shall and may be
maintained in the name of the representatives of the deceased. (d)

4. When any female plaintifff or defendant shall marry, pending
a suit, her marriage shall be suggested on the record, and her husband thereupon made a party, and the case proceed according to

law. (e)

SECT. 4. Of the Change of Venue.

1. In all suits cognizable in the Circuit Courts, when either of
the parties shall fear that he will not receive a fair trial in the
Court where it is depending, on account of the Judge of the Court
where the suit is depending being interested or prejudiced, or that
the adverse party has an undue influence over the minds of the
inhabitants of the county where the suit is depending, or that the
petitioner is so odious that he cannot expect a fair trial, the said
party may petition the Judge of the Court for _a change of the venue
of such cause, distinctly setting forth the cause of such fear, and
supported by his affidavit or affirmation, previous notice of such
application, and of the time and place of hearing the same being
given to the adverse party or his attorney, on which petition the
Judge may under his hand award a change of venue and order the
clerk of the Court,’ where the suit is depending, to send forward
the papers in the suit, by some fit person to the Circuit Court of
the next convenient county or district, as the Judge may direct,
and the clerk of such Court shall receive them, and give a receipt
therefore, and docket the suit in order, and the Court shall have
full authority and jurisdiction to award subpoenas for witnesses, and
to enforce their attendance; to grant rules and commissions for
the taking of depositions ; to hear and determine the said controversy, to award execution, and to do every thing relating thereto,
which the Court from which the suit was removed might have
done: Provided, that no change of venue shall take place, so as
to have the cause sent to either of the counties where the parties
or either of them reside, nor shall there be more than one removal
of the same cause. (f)

CHAPTER III.

OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.

SECT. 1. Of Subpa:-mafor Witnesses and the Service thereof, &~e.

1. WHEN the attendance of any person shall be required as a

witness in any of the Courts aforesaid, in any cause depending=

therein, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said Courts, respectively, on application, to issue writs of subpoena, directed to the

persons whose attendance shall be required, when such persons
reside within the county in which such cause may be depending;
which writ of subpoena shall contain the names of the parties in the
cause, and state at wl1ose instance it is issued, and shall be served on
such witness at least three days before the Court to which it shall
be returnable; which writ shall be served by the sheriff, or other
officer,.as the case may be. (h)

2. When it shall appear in manner aforesaid, that a witness in
any cause has been duly summoned, and such witness shall fail to
appear, it shall be the duty of the Court, on motion, to order an attachment against such defaulting witness, returnable at such time
as the Court may direct; and upon the return of such attachment,
the said Court may line such witness in any sum not exceeding one
hundred dollars, unless he or she shall make a sufficient excuse for
such non-attendance, to be adjudged of by the Court; and the said
witness shall also be subject to the action of the person at whose
suit he or she shall have been summoned for any damage which
he, she, or they may have sustained by reason of such non-attendance. (17)

3. When a subpoena shall be served on any witness in conformity to this act, it shall be the duty of the person so summoned to

attend, from day to day, until the cause in which such witness has
been summoned is tried, or otherwise disposed of, unless he shall
sooner be discharged from further attendance. (Ir)

4. On the last day of the attendance of any witness in each

"term, it shall be lawful for such witness to exhibit his account on

oath, against the person or persons at whose instance he or she may
have been summoned, and the clerk of the Court shall examine and
sign the same, and administer the said oath, and such account so
signed shall have the force and effect of an execution, and may be
levied upon the goods and chattels of the party, in like manner as
in cases of other executions : Provided, nevertheless, that such
witness shall have the right, at his option, to defer making out his
account, until the suit in which he shall be summoned, as aforesaid, is determined, and have the same taxed in the bill of costs:
And provided, also, that where any witness shall charge and levy
more than is really due, such witness shall forfeit and pay to the
party injured, four times the amount so unjustly claimed. (Z)

Snow. 2. Of Matters afecting tire Competency of a mtness.

1. No person being convicted of perjury, although he be pardoned or punished for the same, shall be awitness in any Slllt, bill,
action, or indictment in any of the Courts of this State. (71)

2. N 0 person shall be deemed an incompetent witness by reason
of having committed any crime, unless he has been convicted
thereof in this State; but the conviction of any person, in any
Court without the State, of a crime which, if he had been convicted thereof within this State, would render him ‘an incompetent
witness here, may be given in evidence to affect his credibility. (0)

3. Hereafter no person shall be excluded from being a witness,
or from giving evidence either in person or by deposition in any
suit or proceeding, civil or criminal-, in any Court, '01: before any
jury, by reason of having been convicted of any criminal offense,
except the crimes of murder, perjury, piracy, forgery, larceny,
robbery, arson, sodomy, or buggery, but every such person shall be
admitted to be sworn as a witness, and testimony of his or her
general character, and the record of such conviction, may be given
in evidence, to affect his or her credibility with the jury who shall
judge thereof. (p)

SECT. 3. Of Depositions taken under Commission.

1. Where any witness resides out of the State, or out of any
county in which his testimony may be required in any cause, or is
bound on a voyage to sea, or is about to go out of the State and
remain until after the trial of such cause, or is very aged or infirm,
it shall be lawful for either party on giving reasonable notice to the
adverse party, or his, her, or their attorney, accompanied with a
copy of interrogatories intended to be exhibited to the witness, to
obtain a commission from the clerk of the Court in which the same
may be required, directed to certain commissioners, not less than
two, to examine all and every such witness or witnesses on the interrogatories thereto annexed; and the said commission shall be
attached to the interrogatories by the clerk issuing the same, and
shall be signed and bear test as other writs. (r)

2. The following shall be the form of commissions to take testi-,
mony: ' '

State of Florida,
County. l By his honor
Judge of the Court of
the (district or county, as the case may be), to

Esquires, greeting: Whereas there is a
certain controversy now depending in the

Court for said county, between

and _ . and whereas are
iriaterial witnesses in said matter of controversy, and cannot attend
our said Court in person, without manifest inconvenience :

_ Now KNOW YE, That we, reposing special trust and confidence
in your prudence and lidelity, have appointed you, and you, or any

two of you, are hereby authorized and required to cause the said

personally to come before yon, and after being duly sworn to examine him, them, or
either of them concerning the said matter of controversy, agreeably
to the interrogatories hereunto annexed; and the answers to the
same being plainly and distinctly Written, you are to send the same
closed up under your hands and seals to our said Court, to be held

on the day of next, together with this
writ. Witness the Honorable

Judge of said Court, this day of

A. D. and of the Independence of the
United States (3)

3. The clerks in issuing commissions may leave ‘the place for

ithe names of the commissioners blank, to be filled up by said commissioners; but the names of the witnesses to be examined must
be distinctly specified in the interrogatories and commission. (t)

4. Packets containing commissions, interrogatories, and answers

:ma_v be returned to the Court by a party in the cause, or any other
_person, or by mail ; and to entitle the party to open the packet, if

returned by himself or any other person, the person so returning it
must make oath in open Court if returned in term time, or before
the clerk if returned in vacation, “ that he received the said packet
from one of the commissioners, that it had been in his possession
ever since, and has not been opened or altered ;” [and if returned by
mail, the post-master at the office to which said packet is conveyed,
must endorse, “ received by due course of mail.”] Any person
taking said packets, other than the clerk of the Court, from the
post-odice, must, when he delivers it in Court or to the clerk, swear
“ that he received it from the post-master, his deputy, or assistant,
that it has been in his possession ever since, and has not been opened
or altered” (at)

5. Commissioners, when they enclose the interrogatories, answers, and commission to be returned to the Court, shall write
their names across the seals of the envelope, and give the packet
such direction as will enable the Court to know that it was intended
for the Court, and applicable to some particular cause therein; and
the usual abbreviations or initials of office, or the Christian names
of the commissioners, post-masters, magistrates, clerks, attorneys,
and witnesses shall be deemed sufficient; when interrogatories and
answers have been returned, they may be opened by order of Court,
or consent of the parties, which consent shall be endorsed on the
envelope, and they shall remain with the clerk, subject to the inspection of either party. (v)

6. If any party in any suit at common law, or in chancery, shall
make oath, that he or she verily believes, that his or her claim or
defense, (as the case may be,) or a material part thereof depends
on a single witness, the Court, if in term time, or the clerk 111

vacation, may award a commission to take the deposition of such
witness dc bane esse, although he or she be not about to depart the
country, nor under any disability, the party in such case giving
reasonable notice of the time and place of taking such deposition
to the adverse party.  _ _ _ _

'7. If any will shall be produced to any Court ll3.'VlIlg_]lll'lSd1‘Gtion in the case of such will for probate, and any witness or witnesses attesting the same shall reside out of this State, it shall be
lawful for such Court to issue a commission or commissions annexed
to such will, and directed to any notary public, Judge of a Court of
law, mayor, or Justice of the Peace, or to such other person or
persons as by the laws of the country where suchwitness or witnesses may be found, are duly authorized to administer an oath,
empowering him or them to take and certify the attestation of said
witnesses: if the person to whom such commission shall be directed shall duly certify, that the witness or witnesses personally
appeared and made oath or affirmation, as the case may be, that
the testator signed and published the writing annexed to such commission as his or her last will and testament, and that he, she, or
they subscribed their names thereto in his or her presence, and
at his or her request, such oath or affirmation shall have the same
operation, and the will shall be recorded in like manner, as if such
oath or affirmation had been made in the Court whence the commission issued. 

8. When any commission shall be obtained to take the deposition of a witness in a suit depending in any of the Courts of this
State, where the plaintiffi" or defendant in such suit doth not reside
within the State, or hath not an attorney within the same to whom
notice of the time and place of taking such deposition can be given,
then the person obtaining such commission having published in
some newspaper printed in this State, four weeks successively, the
time and place, when and where, the witness, is to be examined,
and the name of the witness, together with the names of the parties
to the suit in which such witness is to be examined, it shall and
may be lawful for any plaintifff or defendant as aforesaid to proceed
to take any deposition authorized by the commission issuing from
the Court, agreeably to law, where the suit depends as aforesaid;
and such deposition, when taken, shall be allowed to be read as
evidence in the same manner, and under the like restrictions, as if
notice had been personally served upon the opposite party. (y)

_ 9. If any person or persons shall give a notice to take deposi-'
tion or depositions, and shall fail to take or cause the same to bei
taken,_the party notified, if attending agreeably to the notice, shall
be entitled to receive four cents for every mile that he shall necessarily travel in going to, and returning from, the place assigned to
take the deposition or depositions, to be allowed by the Court
where the suit is depending, and for which execution may issue

according to law: Provided, that the provisions in this section
shall not be extended to any case where the failure to take the deposition or depositions shall arise from the non-attendance of the
witness or witnesses, or any unavoidable cause; and the oath of
the party shall be admissible to enable such party to obtain the
benefit of this proviso. (2)

I0. From and after the passage of this act, it shall and may be
lawful for commissioners (appointed to take depositions,) to issue a
subpoena, directed to the witness mentioned in said commission,
commanding said witness to be and appear before said commissioners, at a certain time and place to be designated in said subpoena. (m)

11. If said witness or witnesses refuse or neglect to appear before said commissioners, after reasonable notice, it shall and may
be lawful for said commissioners to issue an attachment for said
witness or witnesses, so refusing or neglecting to appear, which
attachment shall be directed to the sheriff, or constable, and the
said officer to whom the said attachment may be directed, shall
have full power to arrest the person so refusing to answer, and bring
him, her, or them, before the commissioners, who shall have full
power to imprison said witness until he, she, or they consent to
answer before said commissioners, and the witness so offending
shall pay all costs that may accrue. (72)

12. Commissioners appointed by the Courts of any of the United
States, or the Territories thereof, to take the testimony of any person residing within the limits of this State, shall have as full and
ample powers as if they were appointed by the Courts of this
State. (0)

SECT. 4. Of Depositions by Notice before Justice of the Peace.

1. Where a witness whose testimony is wanted in any civil cause
pending in this State, shall live more than thirty miles from the
place of trial, or shall be about to go out of the State, and not to
return in time for the trial, or is so sick, infirm, or aged, as to
make it probable that he will not be able to attend at the trial, his
deposition may be taken in the manner hereinafter provided. (a)

2. At any time after the cause is commenced by the service of
process, or after it is submitted to arbitrators or referees, either
party may apply to any Justice of the peace, who shall issue a notice to the adverse party, to appear before the said Justice or any
other Justice of the Peace, at the time and place appointed for
taking the deposition, and to put such interrogatories as he may
tl'liIl'l{ fit. (5) s

3. The said notice may be served on the agent or attorney of
the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as if served on the

party himself. When there are several persons, plaintifffs or defendants, or parties on either side in the cause, a notice served on
either of them shall be sufiicient. (c)

4. The notice shall be served by delivering an attested copy
thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving such copy at his
place of abode, allowing in all cases not less than twenty-four hours
after such notice, before the time appointed for taking the deposition ; and also allowing time for his travel to the place appointed,
after being notified, not less than at the rate of one day, (Lord’s
day excluded) for every twenty miles’ travel. (d)

5. Instead of the written notice before prescribed, the notice
may, in all cases, be given verbally by the Justice taking the deposition,or it may be wholly omitted, if the adverse party or his
attorney shall in writing waive the right to it. (e)

6. The deponent shall be sworn or affirmed to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause
for which the deposition is taken; and he shall then be examined
by the Justice, and by the parties, if they think lit, and his testimony shall be taken in writing. 

7. The party producing the deponent, shall be allowed first to
examine him, upon written interrogatories, on all the points which
he shall deem material ; and then the adverse party may examine
the deponent in like manner; after which, either party may propose such further interrogatories as the case may require. (g)

8. From and after the passage of this act, all testimony to be
taken out of Court, to be used in any cause, pending in any Court_
in the State, shall be taken on written interrogatories, a copy of I
which shall be first served upon the opposite party; but, by mutual
consent, such interrogatories may be dispensed with, and the party
who shall be served with any interrogatories, shall be required to
answer the same within the time now prescribed by law. (It)

9. The deposition shall be written by the Justice or by the de-- l
ponent, or by some disinterested person, in the presence and under "
the direction of the Justice; and it shall be carefully read to or by
the deponent, and shall then be subscribed by him. ('13)

10. The Justice shall annex to the deposition a certificate of the I
time and manner of taking it, the person at whose request, and the -'
cause or suit for which it was taken, and the reason for taking it,
andstating also whether the adverse party attended; and if not,
stating the notice, if any, that was given to him. (k)

11. The deposition shall be delivered by the Justice to the Court, 1
or arbitrators, or referees, before whom the cause is pending, or’
shall be enclosed and sealed by him and directed to them, and

shall remain sealed until opened by the said Court, arbitrators, or
referees. (Z)
12. Every objection to the competency or credibility of the de*ponent, and to the propriety of any questions put to him, or of any
answers made by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in the same manner as if the witness were personally examined on the trial : Provided, that when any deposition is taken upon
written interrogatories, all objections to any interrogatory shall be
made before it is answered; and if _the interrogatory is not withdrawn, the objection shall be noted thereon, or otherwise the objection shall not be afterwards allowed. (m)

13. When the plaintifff in any suit shall discontinue it, or become

non-suit, and another suit shall afterwards be commenced, for the
same cause, between the same parties or their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken for the first suit may be used
in the second, in the same manner, and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if originally taken for the second suit:
Provided, that the deposition shall have been duly {iled in the
Court where the first suit is pending, and shall remain in the custody of the Court, from the termination of the first suit until the
commencement of the second. (it)

14. Any witness may be summoned, and compelled to give his
deposition, at any place within twenty miles of his place of abode,
in like manner, and under the same penalties, as he may be summoned and compelled to attend as a witness in any Court. (0)

SECT. 5. Of the Perpetuation of the Testimony of any Witness.

1. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testimony
of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth
briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in or to the subject, concerning Which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and
the names of all other persons interested or supposed to be interested therein, and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined,
and shall deliver the said statement to two Justices of the Peace,
one of whom shall be either a Judge or Register of Probate, a clerk
of the circuit court, a master in chancery, or a counsellor at law,
requesting them to take the deposition of the said witness. (p)

2. The said Justices shall thereupon cause notice to be given of

the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all persons mentioned in said statement as interested in the case; _wh-1c.h
notice shall be given in the same manner as is prescribed In this
chapter, respecting notice upon taking a deposition In this State,
to be used in any cause here pending. (q)

3. The deponent shall be sworn and examined, and his deposition shall be written, read, and subscribed, in the same manner as
is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned;
and the Justices shall annex thereto a certificate under their hands,
of the time and manner of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance of the thing; and they shall also insert in the
certificate the names of the person at whose request it was taken,
and of all those who were notified to attend, and of all who did attend the taking thereof. (1')

4. The deposition, with the certificate, and also the written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall, within ninety
days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry of deeds
in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates to real
estate; otherwise in the county where the parties, or some of them,
reside. (3)

5. If any suit shall, either at the time of taking such deposition, i
or at any time afterwards, he pending between the person at whose‘
request it was taken, and the persons named in the said written
statement, or any of them, who were notified as aforesaid, or any
persons claiming under either of the said parties, respectively, concerning the title, claim, or interest set forth in the statement, the
deposition so taken, or a certified copy of it, from the registry of
deeds, may be used in such suit, in the same manner, and subject
tokthe fsamtizl 00Il(ld1t10IlS Ellld objections, as if it had been originally
ta en or t e sai suit. :1)

6. Any witness may be summoned, and compelled to give his:
deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as before pre-‘
scribed, in like manner, and under the same penalties as are provided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken in this
State. (u)

"7. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses livingi
without the State, may be taken in any other State, or in any for- T
eign country, upon a commission to be issued by the Circuit Court, C
or Court of the county, in the manner hereinafter provided : the person who proposes to take the deposition, shall apply to either of the
said Courts, and file therein a statement like that before prescribed
to be delivered to the Justice of the Peace, upon taking such a de:
position within this State; and if the subject of the proposed deposition relates to real estate within this State, the statement shall be
filed in the county where the land, or any part thereof, lies; otherwise, in the county where the parties, or some of them, reside. ('0)

8. The Court shall order notice of such application and state-y
merit to be served on all the persons mentioned therein as adversely d
interested in the case, and living within the State; which notice
Shall be served fourteen days, at least, before the time therein appointed for hearing the parties. (10)

9. If, upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant alone,
should no adverse party appear, and the Court shall be satisfied that
there is sufiicient cause for taking the deposition, they shall issue a

'comm1ssion therefore, in like manner as for taking a deposition to
be used in any cause pending in the same Court. (:t)

L 10. The person who proposes to take the deposition, may, at his
election, file his statement in the clerk’s office in vacation, and may
cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein named as
adversely interested, and by serving them with an attested copy of
the said statement, fourteen days at least, before the next term of the
Court; and the Court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties,
and to issue the commission as before provided. (31)

11. Any Witness may be summoned, and compelled in like manner, and under the same penalties as are prescribed in this chapter,
to give his deposition in any cause pending in a Court in any other
State or government; which deposition may be taken before any
Justice of the Peace in this State. (2)

SECT. 6. Some General Rules of Evidence.

1. All transcripts from the books and records of the Treasurer’s
office, properly certified by said Treasurer, and all transcripts from
books and papers in the office either of the Governor or Secretary
of the State, certified by the Governor or Secretary, shall be good
and admissible evidence in all judicial proceedings in this State,
of the facts contained in said transcripts. (a)

2. The records and judicial proceedings of any Court of another State, or of the United States, shall be admissible in evidence
in all cases in this State, when authenticated by the attestation of
the clerk, prothonotary, or other officer having charge of the records
of such Court, with the seal of such Court annexed. (b)

3. The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and resolves of the

State, whether of a public or private nature, which shall be published under the authority of the government, shall be admitted as
sufficient evidence thereof, in all Courts of law, and on all occasions whatsoever. ( c)
y 4. The printed copies of the statute laws of any of the United
States, or of the Territories thereof, if purporting to be published
under the authority of the respective governments, or if commonly
admitted and read as evidence in their Courts, shall be admitted
in all Courts of law, and on all other occasions, in this State, as
prima facie evidence of such laws. (d)

5. The unwritten or common law of any of the United States, or

of the Territories thereof, may be proved as facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their Courts,

may also be admitted as evidence of such law. (e) .

6. The existence, and the tenor or effect of_all foreign laws, may
be proved as facts by parol evidence; but if 1t shall appear that
the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the
Court may, in their discretion, reject any evidence of such law,
that is not accompanied by a copy thereof. (f)

7. In all cases where any record, pleading, document, deed,
conveyance, paper, or instrument of writing, is, or may be required
or authorized to be filed or recorded in any public office of th1s
State, or of any county thereof, a copy thereof duly certified under
the hand and seal of oiiice, (if there be a seal of office, and if there
be no seal of oiiice, then under the private seal of the officer having
the custody or control of the same,) to be a true and correct copy
of the original on file or of record in his office, shall, in all cases,
and in all Courts and places be admitted and received in evidence,
in the same manner, and with the like force and effect, as the original thereof might or may be: Provided, always, that nothing
herein contained, shall be so construed, as to prevent any Court or
Judge, before whom such copies may be offered in evidence, from
requiring the party offering the same, to produce or account for the
original of such copy, if the same shall be deemed necessary or
proper for the attainment of justice. (f)

SECT. 7. Of the Production of Books and Papers in Evidence.

1. The Courts in this State shall have power, on the trial of .
causes cognizable before them respectively, if it shall be satisfac-I
torily proved that ten days’ notice was previously given to the opposite party, or to his, her or their attorney, to require the party
notified as aforesaid, to produce books and other writings, in his,
her or their possession, power or custody, which shall contain evidence pertinent to the issue, and if either party shall fail to comply
with such order, or to satisfy the Court why the same is not complied with, it shall be lawful for the Court, if the party so refusing
beplaintifff, to give judgment for the defendant, as in cases of nonsurt, and 1f defendant, to give judgment against him or her by
default: Provided, that the party requiring the production of the
books or papers as aforesaid, shall, in all cases, satisfy the Court of
their materiality in the causes therein depending. 

CHAPTER IV.

OF JURIES AND JURORS.

SECT. 1. Of the Qualification of Jurors, (3-6.

1. THE free white male citizens of the United States, who are
householders, inhabitants, and residents of this State, above the
age of twenty-one years, and under sixty years, shall be liable to
serve, and are hereby made competent jurors for the trial of criminals Within this State, and in the trial of civil causes for the
recovery of debts and damages to any amount whatsoever. (h)

2. For the trial of all causes affecting title to real estate, the
jury shall be composed of freeholders only. (13)

3. Doctors of medicine, and clergymen, shall not be liable to
serve as jurors within this State. (It)

4. No person who has been convicted, by the verdict of a jury,
of any crime or misdemeanor, the punishment of which extended
to life or limb, or to cropping, branding, whipping,.standing in the
pillory, or confinement in a penitentiary, shall serve as a juror,
either grand or petit, in any Court of this State. (1)

5. No person under the age of twenty-one years, or above the
age of sixty, nor any person continually sick, nor any habitual
drunkard, shall be summoned on the jury. 

6. The Court may discharge a person from serving as a juror
who does not possess the requisite qualifications, or who is exempt
or disqualified for such service, or for any reasonable and proper
cause, to be judged of by the Court. (mm)

Sacr. 2. How selected and summoned.

l. The sheriffs in each and every county within this State, shall

.obtain biennially, a list of all the householders within the same, to

serve as jurors taken from the tax list, or which may otherwise come
to his knowledge; and it shall also be the duty of the County
Commissioners in each and every county, at their first meeting
after such list shall have been returned, to examine the list so returned by the sheriff, and add to it such name or names as each of
them may know of, subject to serve as jurors; and it shall be the
duty of said Board of County Commissioners to select from the
list aforesaid, the names of such persons as may be adjudged competent to discharge the duties of grand and petit jurors with honesty, impartiality and intelligence.  _ _ _

2. The Board of County Commissioners, in making selection as
aforesaid, shall select such persons only as they know, or have;
good reason to believe are possessed of the qualifications aforesaid,
and are esteemed in the community for their integrity, fair character, and sound judgment. (0) p

3. It shall be the duty of the Judge of Probate, so soon as the
list of jurors is completed, agreeably to the provisions of this ac1_:,:
to furnish the Clerk of the Circuit Court with a list, and shall biennially thereafter, as soon as may be after the said list hasbeeri
examined and corrected, furnish the said Clerk of the Circuit
Court with a list of those added to, or taken from, the old list. (1))

4. The Clerks of the Circuit Courts in the several counties in:
this State, shall write the names of the persons returned to them
as qualified to serve as jurors, which shall be written on slips of
paper and placed in one box, from which in presence of the Sheriff
and Judge of Probate, or a Justice of the Peace, shall be drawn
thirty-nine names; and the persons so drawn shall be summoned
by the proper officer according to law. (g)

5. The Clerk of each Circuit Court shall, when each name of a.
juror is drawn from one box, put it into the other, and so continue
from one term to another, until the whole number is drawn from
one box and passed into the other alternately. (1')

6. It shall be the duty of the summoning officer, on the receipt
of a writ of centre facias, to proceed to summon as jurors, without any distinction as to grand or petit, all the persons therein
contained, and shall make his return thereon to the clerk of said
Court, at least three days before the sitting of the Court to which
the said jurors are summoned. (s)

'7. The boxes required to be provided by the several clerks of
the Circuit Courts, for the safe keeping of ballots containing the
names of jurors as aforesaid, shall be secured with sufficient locks,
to which no person but the respective clerks shall have access, and
such locks, together with the boxes, shall be paid for by the
County Treasurer. (ss)

8. The summons shall be made either personally upon the person to be summoned, or left in writing at his dwelling with some
white person residing in his family, or residing in the house in
which he dwells, of the age of fifteen years and upwards, at least
ten days before the first day of the term of the Court to which
they shall be summoned. (t)

9. It shall be the duty of the several clerks of the aforesaid
Courts, to have made out ready for the delivery to the ministerial

officer of the respective Courts on his application, the write of
venire facias prescribed by this act, at least five weeks before
every term of their respective Courts; and it shall be the duty of
the ministerial officer of the said Courts, respectively, to apply for
and receive the said writs of venire facias, at least one month
before the term of the Court to which they shall be returnable. (u)

Snow. 3. Of the Selection of Grand Jitrors.

1. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, as soon as the Court is
open, to call aloud at the door of the court-house, the whole of the
jurors summoned to attend; and the names of all that are present
shall be taken down by the Clerk of the Court, on slips of paper
of equal size, and put into a hat or box, and the fifteen first drawn
shall compose the Grand Jury, and the balance remaining undrawn
shall be the Petit Jury. (.r)

2. If there should be a failure to summon jurors, the Court may
direct a sen-ire facias to issue, returnable immediately, and shall
direct the summoning of thirty-nine jurors, who shall be chosen as
aforesaid ; the first fifteen selected to serve as Grand Jurors, and
the remainder as Petit Jurors. (ma)

3. Whenever a Grand Jury shall be sworn and shall enter upon
the discharge of their duties, it shall not be lawful for any other
persons than those {irst sworn, to compose a part of said Grand
Jury during the session of the Court for which they may have
been selected. (y)

Snow. 4. Of Dqfaulting Jurors and Talesmen.

1. Every person who shall fail to attend when lawfully summoned to appear as a grand or petit juror as aforesaid, without
having a reasonable excuse, shall be considered as guilty of a
contempt, and shall be lined by the Courts respectively, in any
sum not less than five nor more than fifty dollars, for the use of
the State, unless good cause be shown for such default at or before
the next term of such Court, at which or any subsequent term, the
Court shall proceed to assess said line, unless the person or persons so summoned and failing to attend as aforesaid, shall appear
and Show good cause for such delinquency: Provided, that the
oath or affirmation of any such delinquent shall at all times be
received as competent evidence in his favor. (z)

2. When by reason of challenges, or otherwise, a sufficient
number of jurors, duly drawn and summoned, cannot be obtained
for the trial of any cause, civil or criminal, or for the execution of

a writ of inquiry, the Court shall cause jurors to be summoned
from the by-standers, or from the county at large, to complete the
panel, who shall possess the same qualifications as prescribed in
the provisions of this act. (a)

CHAPTER V.

OF TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.

SECT. 1. Of the Trial Term, <§~c.

1. ALL cases brought to the Circuit Courts of this State,:
shall stand for trial at the term next succeeding the one to which!
they are made returnable, provided the processes therein have‘
been duly executed, and not before, except in such cases as judgments by default are herein authorized to be taken. (c)

2. In all cases standing upon the appearance docket at the call—.
ing of the same, to which there is no plea, answer, or demurrer,‘
filed, the Court shall, upon motion of the plaintifff or his attorney,
give a judgment by default, and may immediately refer the same
to a jury to assess the damages; but if the said action be found
upon any liquidated demand not requiring the introduction of a
witness or witnesses to establish the same, the Court may direct
the clerk to assess the damages and to issue execution accordingly. (d)

3. When both parties, in an action at law, agree to a trial with-‘
out jury, the judgment shall be as effectual as upon verdict. (e)

4. At the trial of all causes brought to the Circuit Courts, either
party shall have the right to challenge peremptorily four jurors,.
and as many more as he can show good cause for. (f)

5. It shall be the duty of the said Circuit Courts at each term
thereof, after the other business of the term shall have been disposed of, to call over all the causes returnable to that term and
standing upon the appearance docket, and to make such orders
and entries therein as shall‘be found necessary in relation thereto.

(3)
SECT. 2. Of Cross Demands.

1. All debts or demands mutually existing between the parties
at the commencement of the action, whether the same be liquidated or not, shall be proper subjects of set-oif, and may be pleaded
accordingly. (2')

2. In all actions to which the defendant or defendants may intend to plead a set-off, he, she, or they shall, at the time of filing
the plea, file therewith a true copy or copies of the subject-matter
of such set-off, and upon the trial of the cause, in case the jury
shall find a balance for the defendant or defendants, such defendant or defendants may claim a judgment for the same, and take
out execution accordingly. (Ic)

SECT. 3. Proqf of Deeds, and other Writings, and Assignments
thereof:

1. It shall not be necessary for any person who sues updn any
bond, note, covenant, deed, bill of exchange, or other writing,
whereby money is promised or secured to be paid, to prove the
execution of such bond, note, covenant, deed, bill of exchange, or
other writing, unless the same shall be denied by the defendant
under oath. (Z)

2. The assignment or endorsement of any of the forementioned
instruments of writing thall vest the assignee or endorsee thereof
with the same rights, powers, and capacities, as might have been
possessed by the assignor or endorser. And the assignee or endorsee may bring suit in his own name, nor shall it be necessary
for the assignee or endorsee of any instrument assignable by law
to set forth in the declaration the consideration upon which such
assignment or endorsement was made, nor to prove such consideration, unlessthe same shall be impeached by the defendant under
oath. 

3. A scrawl affixed as a seal to any instrument, shall be as effectual as a seal. 

S,sc'r. 4. Rights qf Co-swreties.

I. When any person shall execute any bond, note, draft, or bill
of exchange, in this State, and any two or more persons shall also
execute the same jointly with him, and merely as his or their
sureties, or shall endorse any note, draft, or bill of exchange, as
sureties for the maker or drawer thereof, and for his accommodation, and without any consideration, said persons shall be bound
each to the other, for a proportionable contribution of the amount
of said bond, note, draft, or bill of exchange, and if any one or
more of said persons be compelled to pay any part of said bond,
note, draft, or bill of exchange, he or they shall have his or their

remedy by suit against his or their co-surety or co-sureties for_

contribution, and may sue separately or jointly to enforce the payment of the same, and the defendants, 1f more than one, may be

sued separately or jointly, and where it. may be necessary the person or persons claiming such C0l’itI'll)l1tl0Il may proceed by attachment as in other cases. 

SECT. 5. Of Slanderoas Words.

1. Hereafter every charge of incest, fornication, and adultery,

made by any citizen of this State, against one of the female se:r,j
shall be placed upon the same footing as other charges of a cr1m1-‘

nal nature, for which an action will lie according to the principles
of the common law; and that all and every person or persons, for
whom an action would lie, for the speaking of scandalous words,
may have and maintain an action of slander for the speaking of words
containing a charge of the commission of the offenses aforesaid, or
any of them, subject to the like principles, rules, and regulations,
as are observed in other actions of slanderous words. (0)

SECT. 6. Damages on Protested Bills of Exchange.

1. Damages on foreign protested bills of exchange, shall be at
the rate of five per cent. (p)

SECT. 7. Foreign Erecutors and Administrators.

'1. Executors and administrators who shall produce probate of
wllls or letters of administration, duly obtained in any of the States
or Territories in the United States, and properly authenticated
under the act of_ Congress of the 26th of May, 1790, shall be anthorized to malntaln actions in the several Courts in this State,
under the same rules and regulations as other plaintifffs. (q)

SECT. 8. Liability qf Owner of Slave for Medical Services.

1. _In all cases where any slave or slaves shall or may be hired
out w1th1n this State, the owner or owners thereof, shall be liable

and compellable in law_ to pay such medical aid and services, as
may be necessary, to sa1d slave or slaves. (qg)

Saw. 9. Of the Administration of Oaths.

1. Judges and Clerks of the Supreme Court, Circuit Courts and
Courts of Chancery, Judges of Probate, Justices of the Peace, and
Notaries Public, shall be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to administer oaths, in all cases, in which by law oaths
are required to be administered. 

CHAPTER VI.

OF JUDGMENTS, MOTIONS IN ARREST OF JUDGMENT AND FOR NEW
TRIAL.

Snow. 1. General Provisions in Relation to Judgments, die.

1. ALL judgments which may be obtained after the passage of
this act shall bear interest at the rate of six per centum per annum, and no more. (9')

2. All powers of attorney, for confessing or suffering judgment
to pass by default or otherwise, and all general releases of error,
made or to be made by any person or persons whatsoever, Within

this State, before action brought, shall be, and are hereby declared
to be absolutely null and void. (3)

3. In all actions which shall be brought upon any bond or bonds,

1 for payment of money, wherein the plaintifff shall recover, judgment

shall be entered for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by
payment of the principal and interest due thereon, and the other
costs of suit, and execution shall issue thereon accordingly. (t)

4. Every persons desirous of suifering a nonsuit on trial, shall be
barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire from the
bar. it

5. (Ir); all cases the party recovering the judgment shall recover
also all his legal costs and charges, and shall have execution for
the same, provided this section shall not be construed to relate to
executors or administrators in cases wherein by law they are not
liable to costs of suit. (a)

6. Each and every judgment shall be docketed by the clerk of the
Court rendering such judgment, alphabetically, in a book to be
kept for that purpose. (to)

'7. The clerks of said Courts shall endorse upon all executions
issued by them, the time when such judgments were rendered. (w)

It

SECT. 2. Motions for New Trial, and in Arrest of Judgment.

1. No motion for a new trial, or in arrest of judgment, shall be
made, unless the party intending to make the same shall file l1lSI

reasons with the clerk in writing, and cause l'1lS motion to _be
placed upon the motion docket Wltlllll four days after the verdict
shall have been rendered, and during the same term, nor shall a
motion for a new trial, or in arrest of judgment standing over from
one term to another, operate as supersedeas, unless so ordered by
the Court.  _

2. N o judgment after the verdict of a jury, or an award of arbitrators, shall he stayed or reversed for any defect or fault in the
original writ, or for a variance between the writ and ‘declaration, or
for any mispleading, insuiiicient pleading, or misjolning of the
issue, or for any faulty count in a declaration, where the same declaration contains one count or more which is or are good, or for
any informality in entering up the judgment by the clerk; and
when a judgment is arrested, the plaintifff shall not be compelled to
bring a new suit, provided the first writ or summons shall be sufficient, but the Court may order new pleadings to commence, where
the error causing the arrest began, and the party committing it shall
be liable to the costs occasioned thereby. (y)

SECT. 3. Of Bills of Exception to Judgment of Court.

1. If any Court refuse to sign a bill of exceptions, when the

same is tendered to them for that purpose, it shall be lawful for.

three persons to sign the same in the presence of the said Judge,
and also that the same was presented to the Judge, and he refused
to sign it, which bill shall be as valid, and have the same force as
though it were signed by the Judge of said Court; and the Court
shall permit the same to be filed, and become a part of the record.
And if the Judge refuses to let the same be filed as aforesaid, the
Court of Appeals may, when such case is brought before them, by

writ of error or appeal, upon affidavit of such refusal, admit such
bill of exceptions as a part of the record. 

SECT. 4. Of the Liens of Judgments.

1. Every judgment at law, and decree in equity, which shall be entered, and pronounced in any of the Courts of this State, shall creCHAPTER VII.

or THE DUTY or oLEEEs, IN KEEPING PAPERS, DOCKETS, ETC. A_ND
or MALPRACTICES BY CLERK on SHERIFF.

SECT. 1. Of the Mode of keeping Papers, Dockets, «Sat.

1. Ir shall be the duty of the clerks of the several Courts of
Record in this State, respectively to keep all papers filed in their
respective offices, with the utmost care and security, arranged in
the appropriate files, (endorsing upon each the time when the same
was filed,) and all the pleadings in each cause shall be attached
together with tape or riband, and kept distinct from the other papers
in the cause; and papers of different kinds shall not be mixed and
folded up loosely together, but each description of papers shall be
kept on file with other papers of the same class, and no clerk of
any of the said Courts shall permit any attorney, or other person,
to take papers once filed out of the office of said clerk without the
leave of the Court. (6)

2. The clerks of the several Courts of this State shall keep
regular and fair minutes of all the proceedings of said Courts, which
shall be signed by the Judge before the adjournment of the term.
The said clerks shall also keep a common law appearance docket,
upon which shall be entered all the causes brought to each term,
and a common law trial docket, upon which shall be entered all
the causes standing over for trial at each term, together with the
names of the attorneys employed in each cause, and the entries
made by the Court upon the appearance docket ; and a motion
docket, upon which shall be entered, by the attorney, all motions
which are intended to be submitted to the Court, and which dockets shall be called over at each term in their regular order. (f)

3. It shall also be the duty of said clerks to keep a sheriff report
docket, upon which shall be entered all cases of illegality, and
claims to property returned to Court by the marshal, sheriff, or
other officer; and an execution docket, upon which shall be entered
all executions issued by said clerk, and the returns made thereon ;
also appeal and certiorari dockets, ’upon which shall be placed all
appeals and certioraris returnable to said Courts respectively; and
an equity docket, upon which shall be entered all causes brought
to said Courts while sitting as Courts of Chancery; and a subpoena docket, and a docket for criminal cases; all of which dockets shall be regularly kept, and shall be in Court during every term
thereof, while in session. (g)

4. Whenever security is reqtfrred by this act to be taken, and
the person taking the same is not acquainted with the situation of
the security tendered, it shall be his duty to require him or them

‘to justify on oath, and such justification shall exonerate the person

taking the security from all liability for any insufnciency in security. 

SECT. 2. Of Malpractiees by Clerk or Sherry)‘:

1. If any clerk of a Circuit Court, or sheriff, or their deputies,
shall be guilty of extortion or other malpractice in the execution
of his office, upon complaint, made on oath to the solicitor prosecuting for the State, it shall be the duty of such attorney to exhibit
to the grand jury a bill of indictment against the person so offending, and if the said bill of indictment be found true, and upon the
traverse the person so indicted be found guilty, it shall be the duty
of the Court to impose a fine upon him in treble the amount of his
extortion, and remove said sheriff, or clerk, from oiiice, and his
commission shall from thenceforth be null and void. 

CHAPTER VIII.

OF EXECUTION.

SECT. 1. How issued, tested, directed, and returned.

1. IN no case shall a capias ad satiéfaciendum be issued by the

:clerk upon judgment of the Court, nor shall the body of any de-I

fendant be subject to arrest or confinement for the payment of
money, except it be for fines imposed by lawful authority. (1)
2. If any judgment at law, or decree in chancery, shall be renidered against any corporation, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff in

the suit to sue out either a distrain, or fiemi facias, or ele-git, as he
may think proper ; and the said writs of _fiem3 faciazs and elegit may
be levied as well on the current money as on the goods and chattels of said corporation. 

3. It shall be the duty of the clerks of Courts in this State, to

iissue writs of _}‘ie2"'£ fczcias upon all judgments rendered by the Courts
‘of which they are clerks, respectively, at any time ten days after

the adjournment of said Court, and not before, unless the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit that there 1s good reason
to believe that the defendant will remove 1115 property from ‘[1115

State, before the same can be levied upon in the usual manner, in
which case, it shall belawful for the Court to order the issuing of
the said writ of jieri facias immediately after judgment rendered;
and all writs of execution shall bear date as of the day on which
they shall be issued; and shall be directed to all and every the
sheriff's of the State of Florida, and shall be of full force throughout
the State. (73) _

4 All writs of fan? facias shall be made returnable when satisfied,
and the officer to whom the same is directed, shall proceed to collect the amount of all executions, coming into his hands by the
next succeeding term of the Court, after the receipt of such execution, if the same can be done consistently with the provisions of
this act; and shall on the first day of every succeeding term of the
Court, after the receipt of the execution, make a return of‘ his
doings thereon, in a book to be kept in the clerk’s office of their
respective Courts, and all receipts shall also be endorsed on the
execution. (0)

5. The plaintifff‘ shall be entitled to his execution at any time‘
within three years after the rendition of any judgment or decree, I"
and upon the issue of his execution, shall be entitled to renew the
same, upon the return to the clerk’s office, of the original execution
from time to time, for twenty years, unless the same be sooner satisfied. (p)

SECT. 2. pPr'operty subject to Levy and Sale under Excavation.

1. Lands and tenements, goods and chattels, shall be subject to]
the payment of debts, and shall be liable to be taken in execution:
and sold. (g)

2. The defendant in execution, his agent or attorney, shall at]
all times have it in his power to release any property which may:

have been levied on, by surrendering other property, of a value sufficient to satisfy the execution. (r)

3. From and after the passage of this act, Equities of Redemp-i
tion, or the legal right of Redemption in real and personal property, 1
shall be subject to levy and sale, under executions, upon judgments
at common law, or upon decrees in equity. (s)

4. Upon application made by the party causing the levy or levies, J
contemplated by the foregoing section to be made, the Courts re-:
spectively rendering such judgment, or granting such decree, shall.
cause the mortgagor or mortgagors, mortgagee or mortgagees, and
all other persons who said mortgagor or mortgagors, mortgagee or
rnortgagees, or any or either of them, shall state’ upon oath to be
interested in said mortgaged property, so levied upon, to come into
Court and answer upon oath, what amount remains due and owing

upon said mortgage, what amount has been paid, and to whom, and
when paid, that the value of said equity or legal right of redemption
may be ascertained before the same shall be sold. (it)

5. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, constable, or other officer,
to require of the purchaser or purchasers of such equity or legal
right of redemption in personal property, as he may levy upon and
sell, bond with two or more good and sufficient securities, for the
payment of a sum in double the amount of the value of the personal
property so levied upon and sold, (which valuation it shall be the
duty of the officer so selling to assess,) to the mortgagee or mortgagees, his, her or their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns,
conditioned for the delivery of said property, on demand made by
the proper officer of the Court, in which said judgment or decree
of foreclosure may be rendered, and that said property shall not be
removed beyond the limits of this State. (24)

SECT. 3. Property exempt from Levy and Sale.

I. The necessary wearing apparel and bedding of every person,
and the necessary wearing apparel, bedding, and kitchen furniture
of every family, shall be exempt from execution, attachment, and
distress. ('0)

2. The following property may be claimed as exempt from execution, attachment, and distress, except for violation of the criminal laws :

The horse, saddle, and bridle, or the horse, saddle, vehicle, and
harness, of every clergyman, not exceeding in value one hundred
dollars :

The horse, saddle and bridle, medicine and professional books,
and instruments of every surgeon, midwife, or physician, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars; one set of working tools or
instruments of every mechanic, artist, dentist, artisan, or tradesman, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars :

The horse and gun, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars,
belonging to every farmer who is in actual cultivation of live or
more acres of land within the State :

Every actual housekeeper, with a family, may claim as exempt
such portion of his property as may be necessary to the support of
himself and family, not to exceed in value one hundred dollars,
thereby waiving claim to all right to other exemption ‘of property
afforded by this section : Provided in every case, the defendant is
not removing out of the State, nor resides beyond the limits thereof, nor is removing his property beyond the limits of the same, nor
is secreting or fraudulently disposing of his property for the purpose of avoiding the payment of his just debts: And provided,
also, the defendant shall make affidavit that he has made a fair,

full, and complete, statement of all his property in trust, or otherwise, of all monies, debts, and demands due, or_to become due,
which statement shall be signed by him, and W=1t'l] the affidavit

accompany the return of the process. 

3. When an exemption is claimed under the last foregoing section of this act,-the oliicer having such execution, writ of attachment, or warrant of distress, shall summon three disinterested
housekeepers to value the property of the defendant, and the valuation by them made and signed, and sworn to before an officer,
shall be conclusive. (22) ._

4. Every farmer seized and possessed of forty acres of land 1n
his or her own right in fee simple, and shall actually have in cultivation at least ten acres of the same, shall hold the same free and
exempt from execution, attachment, or distress, except for a violation of the criminal law, or fines imposed by a Court Martial or
Road Commissioners, or for taxes due on the same for county or
State purposes. Provided, the land and improvements do not
exceed in value two hundred dollars; said valuation to be made
by three freeholders, of no kin to either party interested, to be
selected by the officer making the levy: Provided also, that if
upon such valuation, said land shall exceed two hundred dollars,
then, and in that case, it shall be the duty of the said appraiser to
set apart a portion of said land, including the dwelling or residence thereon, in case the same shall not be valued at more than
two hundred dollars, and if so, then they shall set apart any other
portion of said land which may be selected by the owner or
owners thereof, not exceeding in value two hundred dollars, which
shall be exempted from sale and reserved for the use of said
family. Also the following property be exempted; the boat and
gun of every fisherman, pilot, or resident upon any island, or
coast, or on any bay, harbor, or inlet of the State, and the boat
and flat of any ferryman, when in either case the same shall not
exceed in value two hundred dollars. (y)

5. The proprietor of such lands so exempted from execution,
attachment, or distress, shall have power to dispose of the same
by last will and testament, should the proprietor of such land die
intestate, then the same shall descend to his or her issue surviving
at his death, and should he or she die without leaving issue surviving at his death, then the same shall be allotted and set apart
to his widow, but should he or she leave no issue or widow, then
the same shall be subject to his or her debts. (z)

Seer. 4. Sales under Execution, when and how made, c§~c.

1. No sale under execution shall take place, unless the same
shall have been previously advertised at least thirty days, at the

door of the court-house of the county where such sale is to be
made, and at three or more other public places in said county, or
unless notice thereof shall have been given, for the said space of
thirty days, in some newspaper printed in said county, and all
such sales shall take place at the door of the court-house of the
county in which said property is situate or found. (a)

2. From and after the passage of this act, the sheriff of any
county shall expose to sale all real and personal estate, by him
taken or levied upon, by virtue of an execution issuing out of any
Circuit Court in the county town of the county in which such
real estate shall be situated, or such levy shall be made, and
in the same manner, in all respects, as is now required by law. (6)

3. Sales of property under execution or other process, shall not
be made except in the months of December, January, February,
and March : Provided, the defendant or defendants in execution,
or other process, will before the sale, enter into good and sufficient
security, payable to the plaintifff, to be approved by the proper
officer in a sum double the value of the property replevied, which
value shall be fixed by the officer holding the execution, conditioned for the forthcoming of the property replevied on a day of

sale to be designated in said bond. (6)

4. Should the parties to said bond fail to produce said property,
and also fail to pay said execution by the day specified, said bond
shall be returned to the clerk’s office, from which the same issued,
as forfeited, and execution shall issue forthwith as well against the
securities for the value of the property replevied, as against the
principal for the debt, or if the value of the property exceed
the amount of the execution, then, for the amount of the execution. (d)

5. All sales shall take place on the first Monday of the month,
and should the property levied on, not be replevied, the same may
be sold on the lirst Monday in any month after legal advertisement. (e)

6. Whenever a sale shall be made by virtue of any execution of
lands, or tenements, or slaves, the sheriff, or other officer, shall, on
payment of the purchase money, execute to the purchaser a deed
of conveyance or bill of sale of the same, and when the property
sold shall bring more than the amount of the execution, the surplus shall, without delay, be handed over to the defendant. (f)

'7. If the sheriff shall fail or refuse to pay over money by him
collected, within thirty days after the same shall have been by him
received, upon demand made by the plaintifff, or his attorney of
record, he shall be liable to pay the same and twenty per cent.
damages, to be recovered by motion in Court: Provided, ten
days’ previous notice be given him, of the intention of the person,
claiming the money, to make such motion. (g)

8. Where there are executions against principals and securities,
or an execution against a principal and security, or securities, it
shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer to make the money
out of the property of the principal, unless he be insolvent, or has
no property, in which case the execution may proceed against the
property of the securities.  _ _ _ _

9. All monies made upon executions in this State, shall be paid
to the attorney of the party in whose favor execution shall have
issued. And the receipt of said attorney shall fully and altogether
release and acquit the officer so paying over the money as aforesaid, from all claims or demands whatsoever, which may be made
upon him in right or by virtue of an execution. And in any case
when the name of more than one attorney shall appear upon the
records of the Court, the money shall be paid to the attorney who
originally commenced the suit, or to him who made the original
defense. (t')

10. In all cases where money has been made on execution, the
receipt of either the plaintifff or his attorney of record shall be a
sufficient discharge to the sheriff thereof. (j)

SECT. 5. Of Claims by third Persons, to Property levied on.

1. When any sheriff, or other officer, shall levy on goods and»
chattels, claimed by any other person than the defendant, such,
person may make oath that said property belongs to him, and it
shall be the duty of the officer to postpone any further proceeding
under said levy until the right of property shall have been tried :
Provided, the person claiming such goods and chattels shall give
bond with security, to be approved by the sherifi", or other oiiicer
levying the execution, payable to the plaintifff, in a penal sum of
double the value of the property claimed, conditioned to deliverj
said goods and chattels, upon demand of said ofncer, if the same
shall be adjudged to be the property of the defendant in execution,
and to pay the plaintifff all damages, which the jury, on the trial of
the right of property, may find in his favor, if it should appear to
the jury that such claim was interposed for the purpose of delay. 

2. When an execution has been levied, and a claim to the '
property interposed as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the officerl
to return said execution to the next term of the Court whence it
issued, together with such affidavit and bond; at which term a jury
shall be sworn to try the right of property, and also to give to the
plaintifff such damages not exceeding twenty per cent. as may
appear reasonable and right, in case of its appearing to the jury
that such claim was interposed for delay ; and the Court shall give
Judgment for the amount of damages so found. (Z)

3. When a claim to property has been interposed as aforesaid, it
shall be competent for the plaintifff in execution to dismiss the levy,

and to order a new levy to be made on other property of the
defendant. 

SECT. 6. Of staying Proceedings on Execution.

I. In all cases where an execution shall issue illegally, and the
person against whom such execution is directed, his agent or attorney shall make oath thereof, and shall state in the affidavit the
cause of such illegality, the sheriff, or other officer, shall return
the same to the next term of the Court from which the same
issued, and the Court shall determine thereon at such time : Provided, that the party making the aiiidavit be required to state
whether any part of said execution be due, and where the party so
making the affidavit shall admit a part of the execution to be
legally due, the amount so acknowledged shall be paid before the
affidavit is received : And provided also, that the person claiming
the benefit of this section, shall execute to the sheriff, or other
officer levying said execution, a bond with suliicient security, in at
least double the amount of said execution, or that part thereof
suspended by the aiiidavit. 

2. If the aiiidavit of illegality be set aside, execution may issue
against the party making the same, and against his securities on
the bond. (0)

3. The Court before which an execution is returnable, or the
Judge in vacation may, on application and notice to the adverse
party, for good cause, upon such terms as the Court may impose,
direct a stay of the same, and the suspension of proceeding thereon,

until the lirst term of the Court thereafter, or until a decision can
be had on the same. (1))

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF LOST PAPERS.

SECT. 1. Of the Mode of Proceeding, (3-6.

1. THE Circuit Courts shall have power to establish iopies of

Elost papers, deeds, or other writings in the following manner: if
' any paper be lost by an attorney or other officer of the Court, alter

the commencement of an action thereon, it shall be the duty of the
said attorney or other oiiicer, to file upon oath, a substantial copy

thereof, and to state that the original was in his possession, and has
been lost or mislaid, so that it was not in his knowledge, control,
power, or custody; and if the said paper, deed, or other writing be
lost by any person before the commencement of any. suit thereon,
it shall be lawful for the person from whose possession the same
was lost, to give at least thirty days’ notice in writing, accompanied
with a substantial copy thereof to the person who made or executed
said paper, or is otherwise liable for the amount of the same, stating in said notice that the original is lost, and that it is his or her
intention to make application to the next term of the Circuit Court
of the circuit or county, to establish a copy in lieu thereof; and if
the said person shall file a substantial copy of said paper on oath
with the clerk, (which oath shall also state that the original is lost
or mislaid, so that the same is not within his knowledge, custody,
or control,) and shall make it appear to the Court that the said
notice has been regularly served, as is herein directed, it shall be
the duty of the said Court, if there be no cause shown to the contrary, to order that said copy be established in lieu of the original,
so lost or mislaid, and all copies of papers established as herein
prescribed shall be as valid and effectual for all legal purposes,
as the original could have been had the same not been lost. (r)

SECT. 2. Of the Establishment of Treasury Warrants lost or
mislaid.

1. In all cases where warrants upon the State Treasury shall be]
lost or mislaid, and the party shall wish to establish a copy thereof, :
on giving notice in some public gazette, for twenty-one days, of the
fact of said loss, and of his intention to apply for the re-issue of
_said warrant or draft, it shall be the duty of the Comptroller to reissue the same: Provided, the party applying for such warrant or
draft, shall give bond and security in double the amount thereof,
conditioned to indemnify the State against all demands it may}
thereafter be required to pay, in consequence of the original war-d
rant or draft : And provided, also, that the party applying therefore
shall make affidavit that the said warrant or draft has been lost,
mislaid, or destroyed, without any design of said party, and in case
of loss, that he has made diligent search therefore, and cannot find
the same. (s)

Snow. 3. Of the Re-establigiment of the Records qf Columbia
otmty.

1. Whereas, on the first day of November last, the Court-house, 1

public offices, and records of the County of Columbia were destroy- 8‘
ed by fire, thereforee, 5'

Be it enacted, that it shall and may be lawful for any person or
persons, whose titles, deeds, bonds, mortgages, conveyances, reVI

ceipts, or other papers required by law to be recorded, and which
have been of record, in the County of Columbia, and lost or destroyed by the fire on the first day of November last, who shall
produce a paper writing, purporting to be a copy, or as near a copy
of the original paper so lost or destroyed as aforesaid, with full or
circumstantial proof of the substance thereof, and of his, her, or
their title thereto, and shall file the same in the office of the Clerk
of the Circuit Court, or recording officer for said county, and shall
serve on the opposite party a copy thereof, or notify by advertisement in a newspaper published in the Eastern Circuit, for the space

.of three months, that such person or persons intends to establish

such titles-, deed, bond, mortgage, conveyance, receipt, or other
paper required by law to be recorded, then it shall and may be
lawful, in case no sufiicient objection shall be made, for the Circuit
Court for said county, at its first session after giving such notice,
to establish the title and right of such person or persons, and admit
again to record such papers as aforesaid : Provided, that nothing
in this section contained, shall be so construed as to prohibit the
re-recording of any paper required by law to be recorded, upon presentation of the original, with the clerk’s certificate of record
thereon. (at)
L 2. To re-establish records of marks and brands lost or destroyed
i as aforesaid, the person or persons making application, shall take
and subscribe an oath, (or afiirmation) before the Clerk of the
Circuit Court or recording officer of said county, stating the particular mark and brand recorded, and so lost or destroyed, and, as
near as may be, the time when the same was recorded; which oath
shall be taken in writing, and recorded in the office of the clerk or
recording officer. (5)

3. To re-establish records of marriages which have been lost or
destroyed as aforesaid‘, any person or persons making application,
shall take and subscribe an oath, (or affirmation) before the Clerk
of the Circuit Court, or Recorder of said county, stating the name
of the person to whom married, the name and office of the person
who administered the marriage ceremony, the office from which the
license was issued, the name and authority of the officer issuing
the same, and as near as may be, the date of such license and when
executed; which oath (or affirmation) shall be taken in writing
and recorded in the office of the clerk or recorder. (c)

. 4. To re-establish any will, letter testamentary, of administra'tion, of guardianship, assignment of dower, or any paper or papers,
or instruments of writing in any way connected with the administration of the estate of any decedent, or the administration of guardians, which have been recorded, or required by law to be recorded,
and which have been lost or destroyed by the fire as aforesaid, the
applicant shall produce the original, or a paper writing purporting
to be a copy, or as near a copy of the original paper or papers so

lost or destroyed, with full or circumstantial proof of the substance
thereof, and of his, her, or their intention to re-establish such lost
paper or papers aforesaid,_and ‘shall notify the.opposite'party or
parties in the manner provided in the first section of this act, at
the first term of the Circuit Court thereafter, (if no sufficient objection be made,) such paper or papers so lost or destroyed, shall
be re-established, and again admitted to record. (d)

5. In all cases where judgments at law, or decrees in cliancery'
had been recorded or entered in the County, Superior, or Circuit:

Courts of said county, the evidence of which shall have been destroyed in the manner aforesaid, it shall, and may be lawful for the
plaintifff or party interested therein, to file his, her, or _their certain
petition, upon oath, stating the facts in such case, which said. petition shall be filed four months previous to any term of the Circuit
Court for said county, and a copy thereof shall be served in the
same manner as other legal process, at least ninety days before any
term as aforesaid, at which any action upon the same shall take
place, upon the party defendant, his, her, or their representatives,
if residents of this State. (e)

6. Whenever it shall be made to appear, by afhdavit, to the:
Judge of the Circuit Court, that any party or parties defenda.nt,'.

his, her, or their legal representatives, reside beyond the limits of
this State, it shall, and may be lawful for said Judge to order a
hearing on the facts charged in said petition, and thereupon to pass
an order in the same manner as though said party defendant or defendants had appeared, and were present in Court : Provided, that
a copy of the said order for the hearing be published in some newspaper in said circuit for the term of three months, or such longer
time as the said Judge shall direct. (f)

7. The answer of said party or parties defendant, shall be filed.
within sixty days from the date of the service of a copy of said3

petition, or in case of publication of an order for hearing, shall be

filed at least thirty days before the day fixed for a hearing of the
same. (g)

8. It shall be the duty of the Judge of said Court, upon due.

return of a copy of said petition, with proof of the same having
been served, or publication made in the manner required by
the foregoing sections, to hear the said petition, upon the petition and answer, or petition and evidence adduced, if there be no
answer, and summary proceedings shall thereupon be had to establish such judgment or decree, in such manner as the Court may
direct; and the judgment or decree which may thereupon be rendered by the said Court, shall be deemed as re-establishing such
judgment or decree to all intents and purposes as the same existed
at the date of the destruction of said Court-house and records. (It)

9. All proceedings and matters pending and undecided in said
Court, and all instruments of writing pertaining thereto, may be
re-established in the manner prescribed by law in reference to lost
papers, or in such manner as the Court may specially direct. 

CHAPTER X.

OF THE CAPPELLATE JURISDICTION OF THE CIRCUIT COURT.

SECT. 1. Of Appeals from the Judgments of Justice qf the
Peace.

I. WHEN any party who may be dissatislied with a judgment of

a Justice of the Peace, shall appeal from the same, it shall be the

duty of the said Justice to file with the clerk of the Circuit Court,
on or before the first day of the next succeeding term of said Court,
a copy of the orders on his record, of the summons and judgment,
and also such original papers as may have been used on the trial
in his Court, taking care to retain copies of the same; and the
Circuit Court shall try the case anew upon its merits, and without
requiring written pleadings. (t)

2. Upon the trial of any case in the Circuit Court appealed from
a J ustice, the testimony of either party shall be admitted, if under
like circumstances, it might, by law, be admitted in a Justice’s
Court. (as)

3. On all appeals from a J ustice’s Court, to the Circuit Court,
the same rules and regulations shall govern (where the appeals are
frivolous and intended for delay only) as govern appeals from the
Courts above. (7))

SECT. 2. Of Certiorari, «Sea. to Justice of the Peace

1. The clerks of the Circuit Courts in this State shall have
power, upon the application of any party before a Justice of the
Peace, who may be dissatislied with any judgment in which he was
a party, in said jurisdiction, to issue writs of certiorari : Provided,
however, that said writs of certiorari shall in no case operate as_a
supersedeas, unless the party applying for the same, if plaintifff in
the Court below, shall first pay all costs which have accrued in and
about said suit, and enter into bond with one or more sureties to be
approved of by the said clerks, conditioned for the payment of the
costs which may accrue in consequence of the obtaining of said

writ of certiorari; and if defendant in the Court ‘below, shall pay

all costs which have accrued in and about said suit, and enter into

bond with one or more sureties to be approved of by the sald

clerks, conditioned for the payment of the condemnation money,

and all damages and costs which may accrue In consequence of

the obtaining said writ of certiorari : And provided also, that all 1
writs of certiorari shall be sued out within six months from the

date of said judgments. (w) . _

2. No judgment of any Justice shall be reversed on certiorari,
when the subject matter shall appear to have been within the juris-j
diction of the Justice, when there has been a regular summons:
and service thereon, when there shall have been proper parties,‘
and when proper entries shall have been made on the Justice’s
record, nor shall such judgment be reversed for any other causes
in law, or in fact, unless they appear on the face of such record. 

3. All cases brought to a Circuit Court upon writ of error, or '
by certiorari, shall be tried upon the record sent up from the Court‘
below; and in all such cases it shall be the duty of the plaintifff
in error or certiorari, to assign his errors, and file them with the
clerk of the Court, on or before the first day of the term to which
the case is made returnable; and every case brought up as aforesaid, shall stand for trial at the term to which it is returned. (3/)

4. No appeal, nor writ of error, nor certiorari, shall operate as a ‘
supersedeas until the costs of the first trial are paid, and the ap- ‘
pellant, or plaintifff in error or certiorari, shall have given bond:
and security for the eventual costs and condemnation money, but in all cases where the appellant shall succeed on the trial of his
appeal, or the plaintifff in error, or certiorari, shall succeed in his
cause, he shall recover back the costs paid as aforesaid, to be taxed
in the bill with the other costs of the case. 

SECT. 3. Of Appeals from the Judgments of the Judge of
Probate.

1. An appeal shall lie from any final order or decision of the
said Judge of Probate to the Circuit Court of the proper county,
In like manner as the same is now authorized from the decisions
of the County Court to the Superior Court. (:2)

2. If any person or persons shall feel aggrieved by any definitive
order, judgment, or decree of the Judge of Probate, with respect
to any matter relating to the administration of the estate of any
deceased pe1's0n, it shall be lawful for the person so aggrieved to
appeal from the said order, judgment, or decree to the Circuit
Court, which appeal, upon security given as in other cases, shall be
allowed accordingly; and such appeal shall be a supersedeas to all

TITLE THIRD.

OF PROCEEDINGS IN SPECIAL CASES.

CHAPTER. I.

OF THE MODE OF PROCEEDING IN CASES OF ATTACHMENT.

Sacr. 1. How and in what Case a Writ of Attachment shall
issue.

1. IT shall be lawful for any clerk of the Circuit Courts of this
State, or for any Justice of the Peace, to grant writs of attachment,
each for and returnable only to his own particular Court, directed
as the case may be, to the sheriff, constable, or other proper
oilicer, commanding him to attach and take into custody so much
of the lands, tenements, goods, and chattels of the party against
whose property the Writ is issued, as will be sufficient to satisfy the
debt or sum demanded, with costs, by the plaintifff in attachment.

d
(  Such writ shall in no case be issued, unless the party applying for the same, or his agent or attorney, shall first make oath in
writing, that the amount of the debt or sum demanded, is actually
due, and also, that the party from whom it is due, is actually removing out of the State, or resides beyond the limits thereof, or
absconds, or conceals himself, so that the ordinary process of law
cannot be served upon him, or is removing his property beyond the
limits of the State, or secreting, or fraudulently disposing of the
same for the purpose of avoiding the payment of his just debts. (8)

3. When any executor or administrator resides, or has removed
beyond the limits of this State, and there are assets of the testator
01' intestate in this State, it may be lawful for any person having a
debt or demand against the estate of the deceased, to take out an
attachment against such assets, upon making oath, in writing, that
the above debt or sum demanded is actually due, and that the executor or administrator, as the case may be, resides or has removed
beyond the limits of this State : Provided, that no attachment shall
Issue if the said executor or administrator shall have any legally
authorized and publicly known agent in the State; service of any

summons upon whom shall be as good and valid as if it had been
served upon the person of the said executor or administrator. (f)

4. No attachment shall issue until the party applying for the
same by himself, or by his agent or attorney, shall enter into bond

with at least two good and suliicient securities payable to the defendant, in at least double the debt or sum demanded, conditioned
to pay all costs and damages the defendant may sustain in consequence of improperly suing out said attachment: Provided, nevertheless, that the bond taken in case of attachment, shall not, on
account of any informality in the same, be adjudged void, as against
obligors, nor shall they be discharged therefrom, although the attachment be dissolved by reason thereof. (g)

5. Afiidavit may be made, and writs of attachment issued, as

ihereinbefore mentioned, at any stage of the cause, concerning any

property, debt, or demand claimed as aforesaid. (It)

6. All writs of attachment shall be made returnable to the'next
term of the Court, having jurisdiction of the same, after the date
thereof, and the bond, affidavit, and other papers, on which said
attachment may have been obtained, shall also be filed in the proper
Court, on or before the first day of the term, to which said writ of
attachment may be returnable. )

SECT. 2. Of the Levy, 540. of the Writ of Attachment. 1. The service of a writ of attachment shall not operate to dispossess the tenant of any lands or tenements, but such service shall
bind the property attached, except against pre-existing liens; but
the judgment, in a suit commenced by attachment, shall be satisfied in the same manner as other judgments obtained at the same
term of the Court are, or shall be satisfied out of the lands and
tenements, goods and chattels, generally, of the defendant in attachment: Provided, however, that judgment rendered against any
garnishee or garnishees in said suit, shall be appropriated exclusively to the satisfaction of the judgment rendered against the defendant, commenced by attachment as aforesaid. 

2. All personal property levied on by attachment, unless replevied, shall remain in custody of the officer who shall attach the
same until the judgment of the Court shall have been pronounced,
but when the property attached, shall be of a perishable nature, it
shall and may be lawful for the clerk or Justice of the Peace who
ordered the attachment, in vacation as well as in term time, to
grant an order for the sale of such property, after such public
notice as to the said clerk or Justice of the Peace shall seem expedient, and the proceeds of such sale shall be paid into Court, and
abide the judgment thereof. (1)

3. The property so attached may at any time b_e.replevied by
the said defendant or some other person for him, giving bond to
the officer levyinrr such attachment, payable to the plaintifff with
good and sufhcient security, to be approved by such officer in
double the value of the property levied on conditioned for the forthcoming of the property replevied, and to abide the final order of
the Court. (272) _ _

4. In case any attachment shall be levied upon property claimed
by any other person than the defendant in attachment, such person
may, at his option, replevy the same or interpose a claim in the manner
that is or may be provided in case of execution: Provided, that in
neither case shall bond be required of such person in a greater
amount than double the value of the property so claimed. 

Snow. 3. Rules of Pleading and Practice in Cases qf Attachmeat.

1. In all cases where property shall be attached and not replevied, a notice of the institution of the suit by attachment shall be
personally served upon the defendant, or shall be published for
three months in some public newspaper of the district, and if there
be no newspaper published in such district, then a written advertisement, in some public place, and such notice shall require the
defendant and all other persons interested to appear and plead to
the declaration filed in such cases; and it shall and may be lawful
for the Court, upon satisfactory proof of the service of such notice,
or of the publication of such notice, and upon the finding of a jury
of inquest, to be called for that purpose, to award their judgment
upon said finding, and execution shall issue accordingly. (0)

2. The filing of the declaration and other pleadings, in a suit
commenced by attachment, shall be governed by the same rules
which govern the filing of the declaration and other pleadings in
ordinary suits at law, and judgment shall be rendered therein as in
other cases. (p)

3. The Courts respectively, to which such attachments are returnable, shall be always open for the purpose of hearing and deciding motions for dissolving such attachments, and in any such
case, upon oath, made and tendered to the Court, that the allegations in the plaintifff ’s affidavit are untrue, either as to the debt or
sum demanded, or as to the special cause assigned, whatever it may
be for granting the attachment, then, in every such case, it shall
he the duty of the Court to hear evidence upon the issue so presented, and if, in the opinion of the Court, the allegations in the
plaintiffI"s affidavit are not sustained and proved to be true, the
aid attachment shall be dissolved : Provided, that if the party

defendant shall demand the same, ajury shall be empannelled to
try the issue joined, as aforesaid. (q)

4. In all cases of attachment now pending before the Courts of
this State, motions may be made, and shall be heard and decided,
for dissolving the same in the manner directed in the last preceding
section of this act, but on the trial of any such motion, the evidence
shall be confined strictly and exclusively to the state of facts alleged
in the plaintifff’s affidavit as they existed at the time of issuing the

_ attachment. (r)

5. Wlren any suit shall hereafter be commenced by attachment,
and the same on motion be dissolved before plea to the action,
then, in every such case, the suit shall abate and be dismissed
from Court, but if such motion is made after the party defendant
has appeared and pleaded to the action, the attachment only shall be
dissolved, and the plaintifff may still proceed in said suit and prosecute his debt or demand to final judgment; but if the suit be already
pending, and the attachment be dissolved at any stage of the proceedings, the suit itself shall abate and be dismissed: Provided,
the motion to dissolve such attachment be made at or before the
first term of the Court, when the suit is pending after the passage
of this act. (3)

6. In all cases, on motion to dissolve an attachment, the party
plaintifff and the party defendant shall have right, and equal right,

to demand a jury to try any issue made on such motion. (t)

7. If there be two or more suits commenced by attachment
against the same person, and several judgments be obtained at the
same term, they shall be satisfied pro rata, out of the judgments
which may have been obtained against the garnishee or garnishees
in any such suits, unless the defendant in such suit or suits have
sufficient other property to satisfy the same. (21)

Snow. 4. Of the Writ of Attachment in Cases where the Debt is
not due.

1. From and after the passage of this act, it shall be lawful for
any person to obtain a writ of attachment, whether the debt or demand be due or not: Provided, that the same will become due
within nine months from the time of applying for said writ of attachment. And provided, also, that at the time of such application, the person against whom the debt or demand charged, shall
be actually removing his or her property beyond the limits of this
State, or be fraudulently disposing of, or secreting the same, for
the purpose of avoiding the payment of his or her just debts or demands. ('v) _

2. Such writ as is provided for in the preceding section of this
act, shall in no case be issued unless the party applying for the

same, or his agent or attorney shall first make oath, in writing, that
the amount of the debt or demand claimed and charged against the
opposite party, is actually an existing debt or demand ; stating also,
in said oath, in writing, the time when said debt or demand will
actually become due and payable; and also,_that theparty against
whom the said writ of attachment is applied for, is actually removing his or her property beyond the limits of this .State, or (as
the case may be) is fraudulently disposing of, or secreting the same,
for the purpose of avoiding the payment of his or her just debt or
demand, satisfactory proof of which shall be demanded and produced to the officer granting the attachment. (iv)

3. No writ of attachment, provided for in this act, shall, in any
case, be issued, till bond with security as directed in the tenth
section of the act, approved, February 15th, 1834, entitled “ an Act
to amend an act regulating the mode of proceeding on attachments,”
be given. [Ante, sec. 1, art. 4.] (22)

4. In all cases when any writ of attachment shall be issued under the authority of this act, the property attached shall be discharged and restored to the defendant or defendants, on his, her,
or their entering into bond with sufficient security, to be approved
by the Court to which the writ is returnable, conditioned for the
payment to the plaintifff in attachment of the debt or demand, when
the same shall become due, or said property so attached may be
replevied according to law as in other cases. 

5. Motions for dissolving writs of attachment, granted by authority of this act, may be made, and shall be heard and decided as in
other cases. (z)

CHAPTER II.

OF THE PROCESS OF GARNISI;IMENT.

SECT. 1. Of the Issue of said Process on Judgments rendered.

1. ON all judgments or decrees rendered, or hereafter to be rendered, in the several Courts of law or equity in this State, it shall
be the duty of the clerks of said Courts, and where any judgment
shall be rendered by any Justice of the Peace, then it shall also be
the. duty of such Justice, respectively, on the suggestion of the
plaintifff or plaintifffs, in Judgment or decree, his, her, or their agent
or attorney, that any person or persons, other than the defendant
or defendants in said execution, are indebted to the said defendant
or defendants, or have any of the effects or property of such defendant or defendants, in his, her, or their hands, or possession, or
control, to issue a summons or garnishment, directed to the sheriff,
constable, or other proper officer of the district or county in which
said garnishee or garnishees may reside, and commanding the said
garnishee or garnishees to appear at the term of the Court to which
said garnishment or summons is returnable, which shall be the
term next after the date of, or after the issuing of said garnishment
or summons: Provided, there be ten days between the date or day
of issuing said garnishment or summons, and the said first day of
said next term of said Court; and if there be not ten days, then
the said garnishment or summons shall be made returnable to the
first day of the term next thereafter of said Court, and state on
oath, in writing, or in answer to interrogatories to be propounded
to him, her or them, (which oath, the said clerks, under the authority of said Courts, respectively, or said Justice of the Peace, are
hereby authorized to administer,) whether he, she, or they, are indebted to the said defendant or defendants, and in what sum or
sums, and what goods, money, chattels or effects of said defendant
or defendants, he, she, or they have in their hands, possession, or
control, or had at the time of the service upon him, her, or them,’
of the said summons, or if he, she, or they were indebted to said
defendant or defendants, and in what sum or sums, at the time of
the service of said summons, (and whether he, she, or they know
of any other person or persons, who are indebted to said defendant
or defendants, or who may have any of the effects of said defendant
or defendants in their hands :) Provided, the plaintifff in execution,
his agent or attorney, before the issuing of such summons or garnishment, shall be required to make affidavit, and file the same in
the office of the clerk, or with the Justice, that he does not believe
that the defendant has in his possession, visible property, upon
which a levy can be made, sufficient to satisfy such judgment or
execution. (a)

2. Garnishment process may issue on judgment rendered, whether
any execution issued on said judgment be re-returned or not: Provided, the plaintifff shall first make and file with the clerk of the
Court or the Justice of the Peace, where or by whom judgment
has been rendered, the affidavit mentioned in the first section of

this act. (b)

SECT. 2. Of the Service and Return of said Process, and Proceedings upon Answer of Garnishee.

1. Upon the return of any such summons, if it shall appear that
said summons or garnishment has been lawfully served or executed,
(and the service thereof shall be in the manner now provided by
law for the service of the summons ad 2-espo7zdendum,) upon said
garnishee or garnishees, and he, she, or they shall fail.to appeal’
and discover on oath or affirmation, as by this act is directed, ll’.

shall be lawful for the Court, ‘after solemnly calling such garnishee
or garnishees, to enter up a judgment by default against such_garnishee or garnishees, and thereupon a some facws shall issue
against such garnishee or garnishees, returnable to the next term
thereafter of said Court, to show cause, if any, he, she, or they have,
why final judgment should not be entered against him, her, or them ;
and upon such scirefacias being returned executed, and such garnishee or garnishees shall fail to appear and discover, as by this
act is directed, the Court shall confirm such judgment, and award
execution for the plaintifff ’s whole judgment and costs. (c)

2. If any garnishee shall enter his appearance upon the return
of the summons ad respoudendum, in the Court in which he may
be sued, he shall be entitled to a continuance till the next ensuing
term of said Court. (d)

3. If upon the examination of any garnishee, it shall appear to
the Court, that there is any of the defendant or defendants’ effects
or property in the hands of any person or persons, who have not
been summoned, such Court shall, upon motion of the plaintifff,
award a summons or garnishment against such person or persons,
having any of the effects or property of the defendant or defendants,
in his, her, or their custody, hands, or possession, or control, who
shall appear and answer, and be liable as other garnishees. (6)

4. Whenever the plaintifff in the execution shall allege that any
garnishee has not discovered the true amount of debts due from
him to the defendant or defendants, or that goods and chattels,
money or eff'ects, belonging to the defendant or defendants, is or
are in his or her possession, or were at the time of service of said
summons, the Court shall direct, without the formality of pleading,
a jury to be empaiinelled, unless a good cause be shown by either
party for a continuance, to inquire what is the true amount due
from such garnishee to the defendant or defendants, and what
goods, monies, chattels or effects are in his or her possession, be_ longing to the said defendant or defendants, or was due, or were in

his or her possession at the time of the service of said summons.
If the finding of the jury shall be against said garnishee, the Court
shall grant judgment in the same manner as if the facts found by
the jury had been confessed by him or her, on his or her examination, with the costs thereon. If the jury find in favor of the garnishee, he or she shall recover costs against the plaintifff or plaintifffs. (f)

5. When said garnishee shall confess his or her indebtedness to;
the said defendant or defendants, or that he or she has or had at‘

the time of service of said summons, any goods, monies, chattels
or effects, in his or her hands belonging to said defendant or defendams, and the said plaintifff is satisfied with the statement, admission, confession or discovery, then the Court shall award judgment
against said garnishee, for the amount so confessed by him or her,

and execution may issue for the same, against said garnishee; and if
that be not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff ’s judgment against said
defendant or defendants, then said execution may be also levied on
the goods, chattels or effects of said defend ant, so admitted or confessed by said garnishee, to be in his or her hands, or possession;
or to have been in his or her hands or possession at the time of the
service of said summons, which shall be sold in the same manner
as under other executions; and if said garnishee will not surrender,
provided he have the power to do so, the said goods and chattels
belonging to said defendant or defendants, and which he or she
has confessed in his or her hands or possession, at the time of his
or her examination, or at the time of the service of said summons
or garnishment, then execution may be levied on the property of
said garnishee, for the whole amount of the plaintifff ’s judgment
against said defendants, or for so much of said judgment as shall
then be unpaid; and the officer shall proceed to sell the said property as under other executions. But said garnishee shall have the
right to release his property from such levy and sale, by surrendering the said property of the said defendant or defendants, to the
officer levying said execution, on the day and hour appointed for
the sale of the property so levied on, or at any time previous to the

day of sale. (g)
6. When any garnishee shall have any of the goods, chattels,

or effects of the said defendant or defendants, in his or her hands
or possession, and shall surrender the same, the constable, sheriff,
or other officer shall receive said property, and shall proceed to
sell the same as if it were levied on by virtue of an execution. (h)

'7. The- garnishee or garnishees shall be allowed by the Court
reasonable satisfaction for his, or her, or their attendance out of
the effects in his or her possession ; and if there should be no such
effects in his or her possession, then he or she shall be allowed
reasonable satisfaction for his or her attendance against the plaintifff
or plaintifffs. 

8. All property in the hands of such garnishee or garnishees belonging to any such defendant or defendants, at the time of serving
any such process of garnishment, shall be bound by such process.

It
(  The clerks of said Courts shall keep a docket of garnishments,
wherein such cases shall be entered, and be called and disposed of

as other cases are. (Z)

SECT. 3. Of the said Process in Cases of Attachment.

1. The provisions of this act, so far as they are applicable, shall
appfy to cases of suits commenced by attachment, as well before as

alter judgment had therein: Provided, however, that where judgment shall be rendered in such cases, against any garnishee or
garnishees, on his or her confession, or after trial by jury, as hereinbefore provided, such judgment shall not be enforced until after
judgment shall be rendered against the defendant or defendants, in
the attachment suit;_ and in no case shall execution be issued
against any garnishee or garnisliees for more than the amount of
the judgment against said defendant or defendants in said attachment. And if any plaintifff shall discontinue his suit by attachment,
or be non-suited, or have a verdict against him on the trial in said
suit, then said judgment against said garnishee shall become null
and void, and such garnishee may have execution for his costs, to
be taxed as in other cases against said plaintifff in said attachment
suit. (in)

2. Where no property of the defendant can be found to levy on,
under any writ of attachment, said writ may be served by service of
summons of garnishment, on any person or persons owing the de-;
fendant, or having any monies, goods, chattels, or effects of said
defendant in his or her hands, and such service shall be sufficient
to authorize the plaintifff to proceed in his suit against such defendant, as if said writ of attachment had been levied on any property
of said defendant; but if said plaintifff shall fail to obtain judgment
against any such garnishee, then no judgment shall be rendered
against such defendant in attachment, and if judgment shall have
been rendered against him, then the same shall be cancelled. (92)

SECT. 4. Of Claims to Efects in Hands of Garnishee by third
Persons.

1. If any person or persons, other than the defendant or defen-I
dants, shall claim the effects in the hands or possession of any gar-1
nisliee, and shall make affidavit that the said effects are bomnfide:
his or her property, the Court shall immediately, and without the:
formality of pleading, direct a jury to be empannelled, to inquire
of the right of such property, between such claimant and the plaintifff, unless good cause be shown to the contrary; and if the finding
of the jury shall be against such claimant, the plaintifff shall recover
costs; and if the jury find in favor of such claimant, he, she, or
they shall recover costs against the plaintifff, and if such claim be
interposed after a levy on said property, and affidavit is made as
aforesa1d,.then said sheriff or other officer making said levy, shall
return said execution with his levy thereon, and said affidavit of
said claimant to the clerk’s office from which said execution issued,
or to the Justice of the Peace who may issue said execution, and
such proceeding shall be had thereon as in other cases of claims
made to property taken in execution. (0)

CHAPTER III.

OF THE PROCEEDINGS TO FORECLOSE MORTGAGES IN THE COURTS OF
COMMON LAW.

SECT. 1. What shall be considered Mortgages.

1. ALL deeds of conveyance, bills of sale, or other instruments of
writing, conveying, or selling property, either real, personal, or
mixed, for the purpose, or with the intention of securing the payment of money, whether such deed, bill of sale, or other instrument,
be from the debtor to the creditor, or from the debtor to some third
person or persons in trust for the creditor, shall be deemed and
held as mortgages, and shall be subject to the same rules of foreclosure, to the same regulations and restrictions as now are or may
hereafter be prescribed by law, in relation to mortgages. (r)

SECT. 2. Of the Assignment of Mortgage Securities.

1. It shall and may be lawful for any mortgagee or mortgagees,

‘to assign and transfer any mortgage made to him, her, or them;

and the person or persons to whom any mortgage may be assigned
or transferred, may also assign and transfer it, and they and their
assigns, or any subsequent assignees, may lawfully have, take, and
pursue the same means and remedies which any mortgagee can,
or may lawfully have, take, or pursue, for the foreclosure of any
mortgage, and for the recovery of the money secured thereby. (s)

Snow. 3. Of the Mode of Foreclosure, Judgment, and Execution.

1. A mortgage shall be foreclosed under this act in the following
manner, that is to say, the person or persons entitled to the foreclosure of any mortgage, may file his, her, or their petition in the
Circuit Court of the county in which the mortgaged premises are
situated, when they are real property, or in which the mortgaged
property may be, when it is personal property; which petition shall
describe and set forth the names of the original parties to the mortgage ; and if the mortgage has been assigned, the assignments
thereof, the debt or demand which the mortgage was given to
secure, the amount actually due upon the same, together with a
description of the property mortgaged; and shall also contalp a
prayer, that the mortgagor or mortgagors, and all persons claiming,
or to claim by, through, or under him, her, or them, may be for
ever foreclosed and barred of, and from his, her or their rights, or
equity of redemption in the said mortgaged property; and the said
petition, together with the original mortgage, shall be filed in the

office of the clerk of the Court to which the application for foreclosure shall be made, at least four months, vvhenthe foreclosure is
to be of real property, and two months, when it is to be of slaves,
or other personal property, before the term of the Court at which
the judgment of foreclosure shall or can be demanded or rendered :
and upon such petition and mortgage, and exhibition to the said
Court, of any bond, note, or other evidence of the debt, to secure
which the mortgage was executed, which itshall‘ appear was given
by the mortgagor or mortgagors; an affidavit being also made by
the party or parties, or any of them, petitioning for such foreclosure, or by his, her, or their agent or attorney, of the amount of the
principal and interest claimed as due at the time of making such
affidavit; the Court shall,. at the first term after the tiling of ‘such
petition, unless good cause be shown to the contrary, give judgment for the petitioner or petitioners, for the amount of the principal sum of money, and the interest thereon due to him, her, or
them upon said mortgage, together with the costs and charges of
the proceedings; and shall also, by its said judgment, for ever foreclose and debar -the mortgagor or mortgagors, and all persons
claiming, or to claim by, through, or under him, her, or them, of
and from all right and equity of redemption, of, or in the said mortgaged property, and every part thereof. (it)

2. Whenever any mortgagor, or any person or persons, having a
right or interest in the equity of redemption of any mortgaged property, shall have any objection or cause to show against the foreclosure of such equity of redemption, such objection or cause shall
be shown and filed, by way of plea to the petition of foreclosure,
fifteen days before the first day of the term next following the expiration of the aforesaid respective periods prescribed for the publication or service of the notice, of the substance of the petition for
foreclosure; and such plea, or the matters of fact therein contained,
shall be verified by the oath of the party tiling the same, or of some
other credible person; and the petitioner or petitioners for foreclosure may take issue on the plea, reply, or demur thereto; and
the right and justice of the case shall be decided by the Court and
Jury, or the Court alone, as the case may be, at the same time, if
the petitioner or petitioners shall require such decision, ‘inless good
and sufficient cause be shown by the opposite party for a continuance. (16)

3. The judgment of the Court, on the foreclosure of a mortgage,
shall, in all cases, be entered up and filed, and execution shall issue
thereon, as in other cases. (ii)

SECT. 4. Of the Notice of the Institution of the Suit.

1. Whenever the mortgagor, or the person entitled to or interested in the equity of redemption, resides beyond the limits of the

jurisdiction of the Court in which suit may be brought, a publication may be made in any newspaper printed in the district within
which the mortgaged premises lie; and if there be no newspaper
printed within the district, then the next adjoining district; and if
"none be printed there, then in some newspaper printed in an adjoining State nearest to the place of holding Court in the said firstmentioned district, describing the land, and giving notice of the
intention of the party to institute suit upon the said mortgage;
which publication shall be made once every two weeks, for at least
four months before the first day of the term of the Court at which
application shall be made for a judgment of foreclosure; and the
said publication shall be deemed by said Courts, in all respects,
equivalent to personal service of notice as hereinafter provided:
Provided, however, that it shall be made to appear to the Court,
by affidavit or otherwise, that the said party or parties, defendant
or defendants, actually reside beyond the limits of this State. (in)

2. Whenever a mortgagor or person entitled to, or interested in,
the equity of redemption, resides beyond the limits of the jurisdic‘tion of the Court, in which suit may be brought, but within the
State of Florida, publication may be made, as in the third section
of the act to which this is an amendment, approved December 1 lth,
1824, aud the said publication shall be deemed equivalent to personal notice: Provided, it shall be shown to the Court, by affidavit
or otherwise, that said party or parties, defendant or defendants,
actually reside beyond the jurisdiction of said Court, where the
mortgage is about to be foreclosed. 

3. In all cases, except the case provided for in the third section
of this act, personal service of notice, of the intention of the party
to institute said suit, shall be served upon the mortgagor or other
person having the equity of redemption, which service shall be
made by the officer appointed to serve writs issuing out of, and returnable to said Court, four months, when the foreclosure is to be
of real property, and two months, when it is to be of personal property, before the term of the Court at which judgment shall be

rendered. (y)

Sscr. 5. Of the Institution of Suit for Foreclosure by Attachment.

1. Upon application of any person entitled to the foreclosure of
a mortgage of slaves, or other personal property remaining in the
possession of the mortgagor or mortgagors, for an attachment
against the property mortgaged, it shall be the duty of the Judge
of the Court, to which application for the foreclosure of the
mortgage shall be made, to direct the issuing of a writ of attachment, which the clerk of the said Court shall accordingly issue,

directed to the ministerial or executive officer of the said _Court,

commanding him to attach, levy upon, and take into possession and

custody the said mortgaged property, or so much thereof as will be

sufficient to satisfy the debt or demand of the petitioner or petitioners, and the costs and charges of the proceedings ; and the said
officers shall execute such writ without delay, and shall retain the
said property attached in his custody and possession, until the judgment of foreclosure shall be obtained, when he shall dispose of it

according to law, or until the further order of the Court .111 the

premises, unless it shall be replevied in the manner hereinafter

pointed out; but no such writ of attachment shall issue, unless the

petitioner or petitioners for foreclosure, or any of them, or his,

her, or their agent or attorney, shall make oath of the sum really

and truly due upon the mortgage to be foreclosed ; and that he has

reason to fear that the property mortgaged will be concealed, soi
that the ordinary process of law cannot reach it, or that it will

be removed beyond the jurisdiction of the Court; and shall exhibit to the Judge the original mortgage, or any other evidence, or

an acknowledgment of the debt or demand secured by it, which

shall appear to have been given by the mortgagor or mortgagors at

the time the application for such writ of attachment shall be made,

the demand of the said attachment, if made at the time of filing the

petition for foreclosure, must be contained in the said petition ;

but the said attachment may be applied for by petition, and obtained, on a compliance with the aforesaid requisitions, at any time

before the judgment of foreclosure. 

2. It shall and may be lawful for the mortgagor or mortgagors,
or any other person or persons having an interest in the equity 1
of redemption of any slave, or other personal property which may I
be attached under the last preceding section of this act, to replevy
the same by giving bond, with at least two good and sufficient securities, in a sum sufficient to cover the amount of the debt sworn
to be due upon the mortgage, payable to the ministerial officer of
the Court to whom the writ of attachment shall have been directed;
and conditioned to return to the said officer, or his successors in
office, the said property, whenever the mortgage of it shall be foreclosed by the judgment of the Court, or to pay such sum of money
asshall, by the_said judgment, be adjudged to be due to the petitioner or petitioners for foreclosure, and all the costs and charges
of the proceedings, whenever the same shall he demanded ; but no
such replevy shall be made but upon the payment of all costs of issuing the attachment, and of the proceedings consequent thereon,
and the bond so given on replevy, by the provisions of this section,
shall have the force and effect of a judgment; and nothing contained in this section shall be so construed as to release the mortgaged property from the lien created by said mortgage. (ax)

Sscr. 6. Jurisdiction qf Court qf Equity.

1 1. Nothing in this act contained shall affect the jurisdiction of
the Courts of Equity of _tl'llS State in matters of mortgage. (5)

CHAPTER IV.

OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE PREVENTION OF THE FRAUDULENT REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY MORTGAGED.

SECT. 1. Of the issuing of Attachment, :$—c.

. 1. IF any mortgagor of personal property in this State, or other
lperson, shall with fraudulent intent make arrangements, endeavor
or attempt to remove the same beyond the limits of the judicial
circuit in which the property was at the time of the execution and
delivery of the mortgage so as to impair the rights, interest, or
remedies of the mortgagee, or the assignee of such mortgagee, it
shall be competent for the mortgagor, or any person interested
;"in the said mortgage, upon making an afhdavit of the fact be-fore a Judge of the Circuit Court, or before any Justice of the
Peace, or the clerk of the Circuit Court, to obtain a writ of attachment, to be directed to any constable or sheriff, requiring him to
attach and take into his custody the property so removed, or attempted to be removed; or if such constable or sheriff cannot be
had, then any other indifferent person specially delegated under
the hand and seal of the Judge, Justice or clerk issuing such attachment. (c)

2. Such writs of attachment as are contemplated by the first
section, whether the same be issued by a Judge of the Circuit
Court or by a Justice of the Peace, or by the clerk of the Circuit
Court, shall run and have full force and effect in every county of
this State; but all writs of attachment issued under this act, when
the real sum in controversy may be fifty dollars or more, shall be
made returnable to the Circuit Court. (d)

_ 3. Such attachment thus applied for, shall not be issued till
after the party applying shall have given bond with two securities

in double the amount of the debt claimed, to be approved of by the
Judge, the clerk or Justice grar-1tin_g said attachment, to pay all
damages the defendant may sustaln, If the said attachment should

be abated or dismissed for any cause whatever. (e)

Ssor. 2. Of the Trial and Judgment, c§—c.

1. Upon application of the mortgagor, or person interested in

the mortgage, to the Judge of the Circuit in which the writ of at-f
tachment was issued, it shall be his duty to order a venire to be'

issued, requiring the sheriff to summon a jury to be empannelled
before him, at such time and place as shall be specified in said
writ, then and there to try and determine the following facts:
jirst, whether the property attached was actually, bomt jide mortgaged; second, whether the mortgagor, or other person claiming
any interest in such property, or any person acting under his or
their authority, or with his or their privity or consent, so fraudulently intended, had made arrangements, or endeavored or attempted to remove beyond the limits of the judicial circuit, the
property so mortgaged without the consent, or contrary to the wishes
of the mortgagee, or other person interested in the said mortgage;
and if the finding shall be in the affirmative, the jury shall then

proceed to ascertain the amount of the demand under the said.

mortgage, and shall render a verdict for the same, whether the
same be due or not; and judgment shall thereupon be entered up,
and execution be issued and levied, as in other cases of execution.

(f)

Snow. 3. Certain Penalties for such Frauds.

1. If any mortgagor of property shall fraudulently remove, or
attempt to remove the same beyond the limits of this State, the
said mortgagor, his aiders and abettors, and every person who, willfully and knowingly, may be engaged assisting the said fraudulent
removal, or attempted removal, shall be indicted, and upon conviction shall be deemed guilty of a felony; and punished by imprisonment, at the discretion of a jury, not less than six months in the
common jail of the county, and until the costs of prosecution are
paid. (g)

2. If any stockholder in any banking or other incorporated
institution, shall fraudulently remove, or attempt to remove out of
this State, any personal property or slaves which may have been
mortgaged or pledged thereto, for the security of the stock in the
same, or any liability to such corporation, or shall, without the
wrltten consent of the said banking or incorporated institution,
sell the same, or any part thereof, or dispose thereof, so as to
impair the rights, interests or remedies of such corporation with

respect thereto, the stockholder so offending, shall, in addition to
the pains, penalties and forfeitures enumerated in the foregoing
sections of this act, forfeit to the said institution all the stock in

‘the same to which he may be entitled, and all his rights and interest

as stockholder; and any property mortgaged by such stockholder
to said corporation shall nevertheless be bound for any liability he
may have incurred to said corporation, and his debts shall not be
impaired by said forfeiture, and said forfeiture shall be made a part
of the judgment or sentence of the Court on conviction of such
stockholder as aforesaid. (It)

3. If any person having possession or control of any personal

‘property, the title to which may be in litigation in any Court of

law or chancery in this State, shall fraudulently remove, or attempt
fraudulently to remove, any such property beyond the jurisdiction
of such Court, or sell the same without giving actual notice of
such litigation, for the purpose of evading the effect of any
decision such Court might make, he or she so offending, his
or her aiders and abettors, shall be subject to the punishment provided by this act, and shall forfeit all right, title, interest or claim
which the party so offending shall or may have in or to such

property. (5)

CHAPTER V.

OF THE PARTITION OF ESTATES, REAL AND PERSONAL.

SECT. 1. Of the Institution of Suits for the Partition of Real
Estate, and Proceedings thereon.

1. SUITS or actions, for the partition or division of real estate,
may be instituted by bill or petition, on the equity side of the
Circuit Courts of this State, in the county or circuit in which the
lands to be divided, or which are the subject matter of the suit,
may lie or be situated ; and that the proceedings in such suits or
actions for partition shall be governed by the ordinary rules of
proceedings in the Courts of Chancery of this State, except as 18
herein otherwise provided. (it)

2. Such bill or petition may be filed by any one or more of
several joint tenants, tenants in common, or co-parceners agalnst
their co-tenants, co-parceners or others interested in any lands_ to
be divided; and such bill or petition shall set forth the description
of the lands or premises, of which partition is prayed, by metes

and bounds, or other sufiicien-t description, and shall state, according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the petitioners, the
names and places of residence of the several owners, Joint tenants,
tenants in common, or co-parceners, or other persons interested in
said lands or real estate, the quantity or proportionate share, held
or claimed by each, and such other matters (if any) as may be
necessary to enable the Court to adjudicate fully, upon the rights
and interests of the parties. But if the names, residence, quantity
of interest, or proportionate share of anyoof the owners or ‘claimants of such lands, are unknown to the petitioners, or complainants,
then it may be so stated in such bill or petition, and such suit may
proceed in the same manner as though such unknown persons or
defendants were named in the bill or petition, and such. bill or
petition shall be sworn to by some one, or more, of the petitioners.
(Z

)3. On filing such bill or petition, a subpoena or subpoenas to appear
and answer, shall issue against all of the defendants, who reside
within the district, in which the suit is instituted, which subpoena-_
shall state that the bill is filed for a partition of lands; and in case‘
any of the defendants shall fail to appear and answer such bill or
petition, within sixty days after the return day of the subpoena,
then the same may, by order of the Court, be taken _as confessed
against such defaulting defendant or defendants, provided the subpoena or subpoenas shall be returned, personally served, or duly
executed according to law. And, in case any of the defendants,
in such bill or petition, are therein stated to be non-residents of
the district, in which the suit is instituted, or unknown, or their;
places of residence unknown, then as to such defendants or parties
interested in the lands in question, the Court, if in session, or
Judge at chambers, shall make an order, requiring them to appear
and answer such bill or petition within such time, not less than
three months, nor more than nine months, as the Court may deem
proper; and such order or notice of the same, shall be published
weekly, in one or more newspapers in the State of Florida, and one
in the City of Washington, and one in the City of New York, as
the Court may direct, not exceeding four in all, for such ‘length of
time as the Court may direct, not less, however, than two
months, nor more than six months; and after the time fixed for the
appearance and answer of such last named defendants, shall have
elapsed, and upon due proof in writing by affidavit to_ the satisfaction of the Court, that the order or notice has been published
according to the order of the Court, the bill may be taken as confessed against all of such non-residents, or unknown defendants, as

may fail to appear and answer : ‘Provided, however, that personal"

service of a copy of such order to appear and answer, or of notice
thereof in writing, sixty days before the time therein limited for
the defendant to appear and answer, shall be (as to the defendant
so served) deemed equivalent to publication, and dispense with the
necessity thereof: And provided, further, that in all cases the

notice or order, whether published or served, shall contain a brief
description of the premises mentioned in the petition, the names
of the parties or persons alleged therein, to be interested in such
premises, and shall state that the object of the suit is to procure
partition of the same. 

4. Upon the bill or petition being taken as confessed, or upon the
coming in of the answers of the defendants, the Court shall proceed ,to ascertain and adjudicate the rights and interests of the
parties, either by a reference to a master, by a hearing upon the
pleadings and proofs, or in such other way or manner as may be
most convenient, and according to the ordinary rules and practice
of the Court; and shall also decree that partition be made, if it
shall appear that the parties are entitled to the same. Provided,
however, that when the rights and interests, or proportions, of the
complainants or petitioners, are clearly established to the satisfaction of the Court, or are undisputed, and also, when the rights and
interests of some of the defendants, but not all of them, are ascertained or established, to the satisfaction of the Court, or are
undisputed, the Court may by decree, order partition to be made,
and the shares, proportions, or interests, of the complainant, or
complainants, and such of the defendants as have established and
satisfactorily proved their respective shares, interests or proportions, to be set off and allotted to them, leaving for future adjustment, (by further proceedings in the same cause,) the rights,
shares, and interests, of the other defendants. 

SECT. 2. Of the Appointment of Commissioners, their Duties, 5-0.

1. Upon a decree of partition being made, the Court shall
'appoint three suitable and competent vpersons to act as Commisi sioners, in making the partition decreed, who shall be selected by
the Court, unless agreed upon by the parties; and who shall proceed to make partition of the premises in question, according to
the order of the Court, and having made such partition, shall report
the same in writing to the Court without delay. Such Commis,sioners shall be sworn before entering upon their duties, by the
clerk of said Court, or by any Justice of the Peace in said district, faithfully and impartially to execute the trust reposed in
them, and shall have power to employ a surveyor or surveyors, if
necessary, for the purpose of making such partition, and shall be
allowed such sum as may be deemed reasonable by the Court, for
their services, not exceeding, however, three dollars per day, for
every day actually employed. (O1)
1 2. Either party may file objections, or exceptions, to the report
' of the Commissioners within ten days after they shall be notified of
the {iling of the same; or if no notice is given them, within thirty

days after the same is filed; and if no objections or exceptions are
filed as aforesaid, or if the Court is satisfied upon the hearing of
any such objection or exceptions, that they are not well founded,
then the report shall be confirmed, and a final decree shall be
entered up, which shall accordingly vest in the respective parties,
the title of the several parcels or portions of the premises allotted
to them respectively; and shall give to each of them the possession
and quiet title to their respective shares, as against the other parties to the suit, or those claiming through or under them; and a
certified copy of said decree (being duly entered according to
law) shall be recorded by the complainants, or some of the parties
in interest, in the office of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of the
county in which the lands lie, which shall have the same effect as
if mutual releases had been executed between the parties. (p)

3. Such commissioners may be removed by the Court, upon
good cause to be shown, and others appointed in their place; and
any party in interest may except or object to their report, and
such objections or exceptions shall be heard and decided by the
Court, and such further order made thereon as to justice shall

appertain. (q)

Secs‘. 3. Of the Decree of the Court upon the Report of Commissioners and of the Costs.

1. If the Commissioners so appointed, shall report to the Court
that the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, of which partition
shall have been directed as aforesaid, are so situated, that a partition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners
of the same, and if the Court shall be satisfied that such report is
just and correct, the Court may thereupon, by a rule to be entered
on the filing of the said report, order the premises so situated to be
sold at public auction, to the highest bidder, by and under the
direction of the said Commissioners, and the monies arising from
such sale to be paid into the Court, to be divided among the
respective parties interested, in proportion to their shares or
interest. (r)

2. For good cause to be shown, the Court may order such sale ;
to be made upon a reasonable credit, for part or all of the purchase‘
money, but in all cases, at least one third of the purchase money‘
hall be paid down, unless all the parties consent to a credit for the
whole; and in all cases the purchase money not paid down, shall
be secured by bond and mortgage on the premises, and such other
additional security as the Court shall direct. (s

3. No conveyance shall be executed in pursuance of such sale, 1
by the said Commissioners, until the sale and the terms thereof‘
shall have been reported to the Court, and the money arising there- 1

from paid into Court, nor until the sale has been approved by the
Court, and a conveyance ordered in pursuance thereof. (t)
4. All parties in interest, whether complainant or respondent,

' shall, by decree of the Court, be bound to pay a share of the cost

and charges, arising from the partition or sale of the land, in proportion to his, her, or their interest, and such decree shall be binding on all their goods and chattels, lands or tenements, lying in
said State; and in case of sale, the Court may order the same to
be paid, or retained out of the monies arising from such sale, and
due or belonging to the parties who ought to pay the same. (u)

SECT. 4. Of the Institution of Suits for the Division of Personal
Property, and Proceedings thereon. (v)

1. Whenever personal property, or slaves, shall be jointly owned
by two or more persons, whether in equal proportions, or otherwise, any or either of the owners thereof, may file his, her or their
petition with the clerk of the Circuit Court, stating his, her, or their
desire to have the said property divided among the several owners
thereof; said petition to describe the property to be divided with
reasonable certainty, and to set forth the names of the several
owners thereof. 

2. Upon filing the said petition with the clerk, he shall make out
a notice to the several claimants therein mentioned, and deliver the
same to the proper executive officer of the Court, who shall serve
said notice, by leaving a copy with each of said claimants, and
make return accordingly; said notice shall contain the substance
of the petition. (:r)

3. When any or either of the owners of said property reside

beyond the limits of this State, it shall be made to appear to the
satisfaction of the Court, that notice has been given in some public
newspaper, nearest to the place where the property to be divided
is kept, for the space of three months previous to the first day of
the Court, of the filing of said petition, and the time when the petitioner intends to move for the appointment of commissioners. (y)
1 4. If any person or persons, not named in the said petition, shall
set up a claim to any part of, or interest in the said property, or if
any other fact material to the title of said property, shall become
the subject of dispute, a jury shall be immediately summoned and
empannelled, to try the same, and their verdict shall be conclusive
for the purpose of the partition, and no written pleadings shall be
necessary. (z)

Snow. 5. Of the Appointment of Commissioners, and the Judgment of the Court.

1. The said Court, except in the case provided for, by the.
seventh section of this act, shall at anytime after the‘ expiration of
thirty days, from the service of said notice, upon application of the
petitioner, or his counsel, make an ‘order _appointing two {it and
proper persons, who shall not be of kin to either party, as commissioners to divide and partition said property; said commissioners
to take an oath before some Judge or _Justice _of the Peace, faithfully and impartially to divide and partition said property, according to the claims and proportions of the respective owners thereof. at

 )Should the said commissioners disagree upon any point,
which may arise in the performance of their duties, they shall have
power to call in a third disinterested person, whose opinion, in conjunction with that of one of the commissioners, shall be conclusive. (b)

3. The said commissioners shall, at the same ternihof the Court,
at which said order shall have been made, or at t e next term
thereafter, make their report in writing, which report shall be
sworn to by at least one of said commissioners, and a judgment of
the Court shall be given thereon. (c)

4. The commissioners shall be allowed by the Court a seasonable compensation for their services; the clerk shall be pEntitlecj‘
to two dollars for issuin such notice, and the executive o cer o
the Court shall be entitlid to fifty cents for the service of the same
on each individual therein named, to be paid jointly by the owners
of said property. (d)

CHAPTER VI.

OF THE ACTION OF REPLEVIN.

Snow. 1. For what Causes the Action will lie.

1. WIIENEVER any goods or chattels shall have been wrongfully
taken, or shall be wrongfully detained, an action of replevin may
be brought for the recovery thereof, and for the recovery of the
damages sustained by reason of such wrongful caption or detention,

in the Circuit Court, or other Court having jurisdiction in the county In which such property may be found. (at)

2. No replevin shall lie for any property taken by virtue of any
warrant for the collection of any tax, assessment or fine, in pursuance of any statute in this State. (e)

3. No replevin shall lie at the suit of the defendant in any execut1on or attachment to recover goods and chattels seized by virtue
thereof, unless such goods and chattels are exempted by law from
such execution or attachment, nor shall a replevin lie for such
goods or chattels at the suit of any other person, unless he shall
have a right to reduce into his possession the goods taken. ( f )

SECT. 2. Of the Commencement of Suits, 4-6.

1. Actions of replevin shall be commenced by writ and summons, issued by the clerk of the Circuit Court, or by a Justice of
the Peace, returnable as other process in actions at law, to the
Court from which such writ and summons issued; but in no case
shall such writ or summons be issued by a Justice of the Peace,
when the value of the property sought to be replevied shall exceed the jurisdiction of such Justice, except as is hereinafter excepted, such writ and summons shall command the officer to whom
it may be directed, to replevy the goods and chattels in possession
of the defendant, describing them, and deliver the same without
delay to the plaintifff, and to summon the defendant to be, and appear before the Court from which said writ and summons were
issued, on the return day thereof, to answer the plaintifff in the
premises. (g)

2. Before any writ of replevin shall issue, the plaintifff, or some
other credible person in his behalf, shall make and file with the
clerk or Justice, to whom application may be made for such writ,
an affidavit, stating that the plaintifff is lawfully entitled to the possession of the property, describing it, and that the same has not
been taken for any tax, assessment or fine levied by virtue of any
law of this State, nor seized under any execution or attachment
against the goods and chattels of such plaintifff liable to execution;
and such plaintifff, or some other competent person in his behalf,
shall also execute to the defendant and file with the clerk or Justice
of the Peace (as the case may be) a bond, with good and sufiicient
security, to be approved of by such clerk or Justice, in at least
double the estimated value of the property to be replevied, conditioned that the plaintifff will prosecute his suit to effect and without
delay, and that if the defendant recover judgment against him in
the action, he will return the same property if return thereof be
adjudged, and will pay to the defendant all such sums of money

as may !be recovered against him by such defendant in the said
action for any causes Whatever. (It) _

3. When property wrongfully taken or wrongfully detained,_ex- 7
ceeds in value the jurisdiction of a Justice, and it IS inconvenient]
or impracticable from distance or other cause, or the urgency of ,
the case will not permit, to apply to the clerk of the Circuit Court,
for a writ of replevin,,-then, and in such cases it shall be lawful for
a Justice of the Peace on application, and it shall be his duty after
affidavit, and bond and security, (and in such case two good and
sufiicient securities shall be required,) shall be made and given as
by this act is directed, and filed with the Justice, to issue a writ of
replevin, as in other cases. The bond and security to be, in the
first place, approved by the Justice, and the writ to be directed to
any officer competent to serve the same, and who shall be required]
thereby to serve and return the same forthwith; and when the said
writ and summons shall be returned, and executed, it shall be the
duty of said Justice to cause said bond, affidavit and writ to be
immediately or as soon as it can be done, filed in the office of the
clerk of the nearest Circuit Court as the plaintifff may direct, and
the said officer making the replevy, shall not deliver the property
so replevied to the plaintifff until the said bond and security shall
be approved by the clerk of said Circuit Court, or such other or
additional security be given by said plaintifff as said clerk shall require, and when said affidavit, bond, and writ shall have been filed
in the clerk’s office, the plaintifff may proceed in the same manner

as if the writ had been issued originally by the clerk of that
Court. (6)

Snow. 3. Of the Service and Return of the Writ, <3-c.

1. Upon the receipt of the writ, the officer shall forthwith pro-5
ceed to execute the same, by delivering the possession of the prop-'
erty named and described therein to the plaintifff, or to his authorized agent, and by summoning the defendant according to the tenor
of the writ. (Is)

2. In executing the writ of replevin, if the property, or any part
thereof be secreted or concealed in any dwelling-house or other
building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand deliverance
thereof, and if the same be not delivered by the defendant 01; some
other person, he shall cause such house, building or enclosure, to be
broken open, and shall make replevin according to the writ; and
if necessary he shall take to his assistance the power of the county. (Z) .

3. If the goods and chattels specified in the writ of replevin be
not delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant shall have been
duly summoned, the plaintifff may either sue out an alias writ, «or

proceed in his suit by filing a declaration in trover or trespass, and
thereby abandon his action of replevin. 

SECT. 4. Of the Declaration, Pleadings, and Judgment, 434:.

1. In replevin the plaintifff shall file his d_eclaration at the time
now required by law in other suits, on or before the first day of
the term to which the writ is returnable, unless the writ be issued
by a Justice of the Peace, when no written pleadings shall be necessary, and unless further time be given by the Court; and the
defendant shall demur or plead thereto within such time as is prescribed in other actions at law, and similar proceedings shall in
like manner be had as in other personal actions. (22)

2. The defendant may plead that he is not guilty of the premises
charged against him, and this plea shall put in issue, not only the
right of .the plaintifff to the possession of the property described in the

declaration, but also the wrongful taking and detention thereof. (0)

3. If it shall appear upon default of the defendant, or upon trial,
or otherwise, that the goods described in the declaration were wrongfully taken or detained by the defendant, the plaintifff shall have
judgment for his damages, caused thereby, and for his costs of

' suit. (3))

4. If it shall appear upon the non-suit of the plaintifff, or upon
trial, or otherwise, that the defendant is entitled to a return of the
goods. he shall have judgment therefore accordingly, with damages
for the taking thereof by the replevin with his costs, with a writ of
return and restitution thereupon accordingly, unless he shall elect
to waive such return as in the next section provided. (q)

5. Whenever the defendant shall be entitled to a return of the
property replevied, instead of taking judgment therefore, he may
take judgment for the value of the property replevied, to be assessed
by the jury. (1')

6. When property has been wrongfully taken, or is wrongfully

‘detained, and it consists of separate articles, any one of which may

in value be within the jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, but
taken together will exceed that jurisdiction, the plaintifff shall not,
for the purpose of giving jurisdiction to a Justice of the Peace, divide and separate said property to enable him to bring separate
actions therefore; and in all cases of actions of replevin before "a
Justice of the Peace, either party may remove the same immediately by certiorari to the Circuit Court._(s)

CHAPTER VII.

OF THE ACTION OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Sect‘. 1. For what Causes the said Action will lie.

1. No person shall enter into any lands or tenements but in case;
where entry is given by law, and in such case not with strong hand,

nor with multitude of people, but only in a peaceable and easy
manner, and no person who shall have entered in a peaceable
manner shall hold the same afterward against the consent of the
party entitled to the possession thereof. (t)

2. If any person shall enter, or shall have entered into any lands)
or tenements, in case where entry is not given by law, or if any;

person shall enter, or shall have entered into any lands or tenements with strong hand, or with multitude of people, even in case
where entry is given by law, the party turned out of possession by
such unlawful or by such forcible entry, by whatever right or title
he held such possession, or whatever estate he held or claimed in
the lands or tenements of which he was so dispossessed, shall at
any time within three years thereafter, be entitled to the summary
remedy herein provided. (at)

3. If any person shall enter, or shall have entered, in a peaceable
manner into lands or tenements, in case such entry is lawful, and
after the expiration of his right shall continue to hold the same
against the consent of the party entitled to the possession, the
party so entitled, whether as tenant of the freehold, tenant for years
or otherwise, shall be entitled to the like summary remedy at any
time within three years after the possession shall so have been
withheld from him against his consent. (v)

SECT. 2. Of the Complaint.

1. The party so turned out of possession, or so held out of possession, may exhibit his complaint before any Justice of the Peace
for the county (or corporation) within which such lands or tenements may lie, in the following form, or to the following effect,
that is to say: “ county (or corporation of )
to wit: A. B. of the said county (or corporation) complains, that
C. D. hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out of possession,
(or unlawfully) and against his consent withholds from him the
possession of a certain tenement, containing by estimation

of land, with the appurtenances, lying and being in the

county. or corporation aforesaid, whereof he prays restitution of
possession. A. B., Plaintiff.” (to)

2. Every such complaint shall be verified by the oath or affirmation of the plaintifff, certified at the foot thereof after the following
manner: “ county, (or corpcration,) to wit: this day
the named A. B. made oath (or affirmation) before me, a Justice
of the Peace for said county, (or corporation,) that he verily believes the allegations of the above complaint to be correct and true.

“ Given under my hand this day of

“E.  ($5)

SECT. 3. Of the Warrant and Service, and of Subpwnas for
Wzitncsses.

1. The Justice before whom such complaint shall be made, shall
thereupon issue his warrant to the following effect: “
county (or corporation of )to wit: whereas A. B.
hath made complaint on oath (or affirmation) before me, a Justice of the Peace for the said county, (or corporation,) that C.
D. hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out of possession, or
unlawfully or against his consent holds him out of possession, of a
certain tenement, containing by estimation of land,
with its appurtenances, lying and being in the said county (or corporation) and hath prayed restitution of possession thereof: these
are, thereforee, in the name of the State, to require you to summon
the said C. D. to appear at the Court-house of your county (or
corporation) on the day of before the Justices
of the county (or corporation) aforesaid, to answer the complaint
aforesaid ; and also to require you to summon at least twelve good
and lawful men, being freeholders of your bailiwick, and not of kin
to either party, then and there to be attendant upon the said
Justices, as jurors, to try the complaint aforesaid; also notify one
other Justice of the Peace to attend at said time and place, and
have then and there this warrant.

“ Witness my hand and seal this day of
E. F.” (y)

2. The warrant aforesaid shall be directed to the sheriff, or
coroner, as the case may require; shall be made returnable on a
day certain, not less than ten, nor more than twenty days afier its
date, and shall be forthwith executed by the proper officer, who
shall make due return to the Justices at the time and place therein
mentioned, of the manner in which he shall have executed the
same. (z) '

3. The said warrant shall be served on the defendant at least
eight days before the return day, either by delivering him a copy
thereof, or, if he cannot be found, by delivering a copy to any
white person of his family above the age of sixteen years, at his
usual place of residence ; and if no such person be found, then by
setting up a copy on some conspicuous place on the tenement 111

the warrant mentioned. (a)

4. At any time after such warrant shall have been issued, it
shall be lawful for the Justice issuing the same, or any Justice of
the Peace for the county or corporation, or for the clerk of the
Circuit Court, to issue subpoenas for witnesses, requiring them to
attend at the Court-house before the Justices, at the time appointed
as aforesaid, to give evidence on the trial; any subpoena so issued
shall be executed in the same manner, and to all intents and purposes, shall have the same force and effect as a subpoena issued according to law in a cause depending in a Circuit Court. (b)

SEGT. 4. Of the Trial, Verdict, and Judgment.

1. It shall be the duty of the Justices notiiied as aforesaid, and of
the Justices who shall have issued the warrant, to attend at the
Court-house on the day therein specified, for the purpose of holding a Court for the trial of the complaint aforesaid, for which purpose such Justices, or any two of them, or any two or more Justices
of the county or corporation, as the case may be, shall constitute a.
Court; such Court shall be considered a Court of Record; they
shall have power to issue all proper process to bring before them 1
witnesses or other persons whose attendance may be lawfully required by them, and may adjourn from day to day, and from time
time, until the trial shall be ended; the sheriff, sergeant, or coroner, as the case may require, shall be attendant upon them and
execute their orders, and the clerk of the Circuit Court shall attend
them, and shall record their proceedings in the proper book of his
office, and file away and preserve the complaint and warrant aforesaid, with all other papers exhibited on the trial. (c)

—2. When the Justices shall have so met and formed a Court on r
the day and at the place aforesaid, if it shall appear to them that t
the defendant has been duly served with the warrant agreeably to
the requisitions of this act, they shall proceed without further
pleadings in writing to einpannel a jury for the trial of the complaint
aforesaid; the jury shall be composed of any twelve housekeepers, ,1
to whom neither party hath any legal exception, or if a sufficient
number of such housekeepers, to whom neither party hath any
legal exception, be not attending, the deficiency shall be made up
of bystanders, being housekeepers of the county or corporation. (d)

3. When the jury shall have been so empannelled, they shall be_(
charged on oath in the following manner, that is to say, if the‘
complaint be of a forcible entry, or of an unlawful entry, they shall C
be charged thus: “ You shall well and truly try, whether the defendant C. D., at any time within three years next before the exhibition of the complaint filed by the plaintifff in this cause, did
forcibly or unlawfully enter upon the tenement in the said complaint mentioned, and turn the said plaintifff out of the possession

thereof ; and whether the said defendant continued to hold the
possession thereof at the time of the exhibition of said complaint ;
and you shall find a true verdict thereupon according to the evidence. So help you God.” Or, if the complaint be of an unlawful detainer against the consent of the plaintifff, they shall be
charged thus: “ You shall well and truly try, whether C. D.,
against the consent of the plaintifff, holds possession of the tenement
mentioned in the complaint filed in this cause; whether the said
defendant hath so held possession thereof against the consent of the
plaintifff within three years next before the exhibition of the said
complaint; and whether the plaintifff has the right of possession in
the tenement aforesaid, and you shall find a verdict thereupon according to the evidence. So help you God.” (.9)

4. The jury being so empannelled and charged, the Justices shall
then admit before them all legal evidence which shall be offered,
as well on the part of the defendant as on the part of the plaintiff,
shall suffer each party to be heard by counsel, shall decide all questions of law which shall be properly submitted to them in the course
of the trial. (f )

5. When the jury shall have unanimously agreed upon the verdict, they shall find the same in the following form, or to the following effect, that is to say, in cases of forcible entry, or unlawful
entry, thus : “ We, the jury, find that the defendant did, or did not,
within three years next before the exhibition of the complaint filed
by the plaintifff in this cause, forcibly or unlawfully enter upon the
tenement in the said complaint mentioned, and turn the plaintifff
out of possession thereof; that the said defendant did, or did not,
continue to hold the possession thereof, at the date of the said complaint ; ” or, in case of unlawful detainer against the plaintifff ’s
consent, thus: “ We, the jury, find that the defendant did, or did
not, at the time of the exhibition of the complaint filed in this
cause, hold possession of the tenement herein mentioned against
the consent of the plaintifff; that the said defendant hath, or hath
not, so held possession thereof against the consent of the plaintifff
within three years next before the exhibition of said complaint;
and that the plaintifff bath, or hath not, the right of possession in

the tenement aforesaid.” (g)

6. The verdict so found on complaint of a forcible entry, or of
an unlawful entry, shall ascertain, that such forcible entry, or unlawful entry, as the case may be, whereby the plaintifff was turned
out of possession, was made by the defendant within three years
before the exhibition of the complaint, and that the defendant's
possession continued at the time of exhibiting the complaint; or
if the verdict found as aforesaid upon a complaint of unlawful detainer against the consent of the plaintifff, shall ascertain that the
defendant, at the time of the exhibition of said complaint, held the
possession of the tenement therein mentioned against the consent

of the plaintifff; that the said defendant had so held against the
consent of the plaintifff within three years next before the exhibition of said complaint; and that the plaintifff hath the right of
possession in the tenement aforesaid; then, and in either of these
cases, the Justice shall render judgment in favor of ‘the plaintifff,
that he recover possession of the tenement aforesaid with full costs,
and shall award a writ of haberefacias possessionem. (h)

7. If the verdict found as aforesaid, in either of the said cases,
shall be in favor of the defendant, the Justices shall render judgment against the plaintifff, that his complaint be dismissed, and that
the defendant recover of him full costs.  _ _

8. N o judgment rendered as aforesaid, either for the plaintifff or 1
defendant, shall bar any action of trespass, or any writ of eject-1
ment, or writ of right between the same parties respecting the same
tenement; nor shall any verdict found as aforesaid, be held conclusive of the facts therein found in any such action of trespass,
ejectment, or writ of‘ right. (Ir)

SECT. 5. Of Appeals, Defaizlting Jurors, and Costs.

1. The judgment of the Justices rendered as aforesaid, either in
favor of the plaintifff, or in favor of the defendant, shall, in all respects, be executed in the same manner as if it had been the judg-‘
merit of the Circuit Court of the county at any ordinary term
thereof; but if either party think himself aggrieved, he shall have
a right to appeal to the next Circuit Court of the county, on filing
with said Justices a traverse to this effect: “A. B. says the inquisition in this case is not true, he thereforee prays an appeal to the
Circuit Court ; ” upon which the Justices shall certify a copy thereof to the Circuit Court, on the appellant giving bond and security,
to be approved of by said Justices, to answer all costs occasioned
thereby: Provided, that such traverse or appeal shall not operate
to stay the writ of possession; but, if judgment be given for the
appellant on such appeal, restitution shall be awarded to him, and
said traverse shall be tried as an original case, and the verdict of
the jury shall say, whether the said inquisition be true, or not true,
and judgment shall be pronounced, and execution issue accordiiigly. (Z)

2. Every juror summoned to attend the Justices aforesaid, and
failing to attend without sufficient cause therefore, shall be liable to
a fine of sixteen dollars, to the use of the State, imposed by the
Justices aforesaid. (m)

3._ The sheriff, or other proper officer, shall be allowed for his
services in executing and returning the warrant aforesaid the sum
of two dollars; all other fees of officers for services rendered, in

relation to the proceedings and trial aforesaid, shall be the same as

. the fees for similar services rendered in a suit at law respecting the

title of land depending in a Circuit Court. (in)

CHAPTER VIII.

OF REMEDIES FOR LANDLOBD AGAINST TENANT.

SECT. 1. Of Distress for Rent.

1. Faom and alter the passage of this act, it shall and may be
lawful for any person, his or her agent, attorney or legal representative, who may hereafter have rent due, when the sum does not
exceed fifty dollars, to make application to any Justice of the Peace
of the county where his, her, or their tenant may reside, and on
making aiiidavit before said Justice of the amount of rent due from
said tenant, it shall be the duty of the said Justice to issue a distress warrant for the amount claimed to be due, directed to any
constable of said county ; and it shall be the duty of the constable
to whom the same may be directed, and he is hereby required to

- levy on any property belonging to the said tenant : Provided, nevertheless, that the party distrained shall be entitled to replevy the
property so taken, by making oath that the sum or any part thereof
distrained for is not due, and give bond and security for the amount
which on trial may be proven to be due; and in that case, it shall
be the duty of the officer to return the warrant to the Justice of
the Peace with the proceedings thereon, and it shall be the duty of
said Justice to cause the said parties to appear before him at some
certain time, and the matter in controversy shall be triedand determined, and execution shall issue as in other cases. (p)

2. In all civil cases of distress as aforesaid, where the party distrained on does not within ten days after levying the distress warrant, replevy the property as aforesaid, the officer making the
distress shall advertise and sell the property levied on as in cases of

execution. (q)
3. When property distrained may be claimed by a third person,

I the same shall be claimed on oath, and the right of property shall

be determined by a jury as is provided in like cases. (7')
4. No property of any tenant or lessee shall be exempt from

distress and sale for rent, except bed, bedclothes, and wearing apparel. (3)
Sam‘. '2. Of Re-entry and Double Rent.

1. If any person leasing or re-renting any land or house, shall
fail to pay the rent at the time it becomes due, 11'. shall and may be
lawful for the lessor immediately thereafter to enter and take possession of the property so by him rented or leased. (t) _

2. When any tenant shall refuse to give possession of the premises
at the end of his lease, it shall be lawful for the person, his, or her
agent, attorney or legal representative leasing the same, to demand
of such tenant double the monthly rent, and may recover the same
at the expiration of every month, or in the same pl'OpOl'tlOI1 for a
longer or shorter time by distress in manner pointed out as aforesaid. (u)

SECT. 3. Of the Actionfor Use and Occupation, :3-c.

1. It shall and may be lawful for any landlord or landlords, his,
her, or their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns to recover
reasonable satisfaction for any house or houses, lands, tenements,
or hereditaments held or occupied by any person or persons, by his
or their permission, in an action on the case for the use and occupation of the said lands, tenements, or hereditaments when they
were not held, occupied by or under an agreement or demise by
deed; and if on the trial of any such action, any parol demise, or
agreement (not being by deed), whereby a certain rent was reserved,
shall appear or be given in evidence, the plaintifff in such action
shall not therefore be nonsuited, but may make use thereof as an evidence of the quantum of damages to be recovered. (v)

2. All contracts for rent, whether verbal or in writing, shall
bear interest from the time the same shall become due, any law,
usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. 

SECT. 4. Of the Mode of removing Tenants.

1. Any tenant or lessee at will, or at sulferance, or for patt of a
year, or for one or more years, of any houses, lands, or tenements,
and the assigns, under-tenants, or legal representatives of such
tenant, or lessee, may be removed from such premises in the manner
hereinafter prescribed in the following cases:

I. Where such person shall hold over and continue in the possession of the demised premises, or any part thereof, after the expiration of his time, without the permission of his landlord.

11. Where such person shall hold over without permission as
aforesaid, after any default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the
agreement under which such premises are held, and a demand of
such rent shall have been made, on three days’ notice, in writing,
requiring the payment of such rent, or the possession of the premises, and shall have been served by the person entitled to such rent,
on the person owing the same, by either delivering to the tenant to
whom it shall be directed, a true copy thereof, or if such tenant be
absent from his last, or usual place of residence, by leaving a copy
thereof at such place. (:3)

2. The landlord, his legal representative, agent, or assigns applying for the removal of any such tenant, shall make oath, in

writing, of the facts which so authorize the removal of any tenant,
describing therein the premises, before some Justice of the Peace
of the county where the demised premises are situated, whose duty
it shall be thereupon to issue his summons, describing the premises
of which possession is demanded, and requiring the person in possession of said premises, or claiming the possession thereof, forthwith to remove from the same, or to show cause before the said
Justice, within not less than three days, nor more than five, why
possession of said premises should not be delivered to the applicant. (y)

3. If at the time appointed in said summons, no sufficient cause
be shown to the contrary, the said Justice shall issue his warrant
to any constable of said county, commanding him to remove all
persons from the premises aforesaid, mid to put the said applicant
in full possession thereof. (:5)

4. The person in possession of such demised premises, and any
person claiming possession thereof, may at the time appointed in
such summons for showing cause, or before, file an affidavit with
the Justice who issued the summons, denying the facts upon which
the said summons was issued, or any of said facts; and the matters
therein controverted shall be tried by six legal jurors, to be immediately summoned and empannelled for that purpose. (a)

5. If the verdict of the jury so summoned, shall be in favor of
the lessor, landlord, or other person applying for the possession of
said premises, the said Justice shall issue his warrant to any constable of said county, commanding him to put landlord, lessor, or
other person into possession of said premises, as hereinbefore directed, which it shall be his duty forthwith to execute. (I2)

CHAPTER IX.

OF REFERENCE TO ARBITRATION.

SECT. 1. Who may submit to Arbitration, and what may be submitted.

1. IT shall and may be lawful for all persons desirous of ending.
any matter of difference, controversy, or quarrel, in which any ac-:
tion at law or in equity will lie, or in which any action or suit has
been commenced and is pending, to agree that their said matter of
difference, controversy, or quarrel shall be adjusted and determined
by arbitration, and to appoint one or more arbitrators, with an
umpire, to adjust and determine the same: the matters in difference between the parties shall thereupon be submitted to the said
arbitrator or arbitrators by bond, covenant, or other agreement in
writing, and the parties aforesaid may stipulate and agree either in
said bond, covenant, or agreement, or by a separate agreement,
that the said submission to arbitration shall be made a rule of any
Court of Record in this State. (d)

2. When any submission is intended to be made a rule of Court
as aforesaid, an agreement to that effect in writing, signed by the
parties, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the Court of which
said submission is to be made a rule, and the clerk shall thereupon
enter said rule. (e)

3. Controversies and suits in which infants are interested, may
in like manner, when made a rule of Court, be submitted to arbitration by consent of their lawful guardian; and executors and
administrators may also submit to arbitration any matter in dispute
or controversy in relation to the goods, chattels, debts, and credits
of their testator or intestate. (f )

4. Nothing in this act contained shall deprive any party to any
submission not made a rule of Court as aforesaid, from seeking relief in the Courts of law or equity. (g)

5. In all cases in which magistrates shall have jurisdiction, the
parties may submit their difference to arbitration, and the award

shall have the force and effect of a judgment of a Justice of the
Peace. (It)

Snow. 2. Of the Arbitrators, their Power, «Sm.

1. The arbitrator or arbitrators, or umpire appointed as aforesaid, shall, before entering upon the investigation of the matters
submitted to them, be severally sworn or affirmed before some Judge
or Justice of the Peace, faithfully and diligently to execute the trust

committed to them by the submission ; and the examination of all witnesses before the said arbitrator, arbitrators, or umpire shall be under
oath or affirmation, and if the parties themselves be examined, such
examination shall also be under oath or affirmation, and in the presence of each other; and the said arbitrators, or either of them
shall be, and they are hereby authorized and empowered to issue
subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses, under the same
regulations as the clerks of the several Courts of this State, which
said subpoenas shall be served by the sheriff or any constable of the
county, and shall be obeyed by the witnesses in the same manner
as subpoenas issued from any Court of Record within this State.
(5 '

)2. The arbitrators for their services shall be entitled to receive
one dollar and fifty cents per day, if demanded, to be paid jointly
by the contending parties before entering the award; the fees of
the clerk for entering the rule of Court shall be jointly paid by the
parties previous to the entering thereof, unless otherwise directed

by the award. (It)

3. All witnesses obeying the said subpoena of the arbitrators shall
be allowed the same compensation, and entitled to the same privileges as if summoned by the clerk of any Court of Record. (1)

SECT. 3. Of the Award, how and for what Causes, set aside.

1. N 0 award of any arbitrator or arbitrators duly appointed,
made pursuant to the said submission, shall be set aside by the said
Court, except on the ground of fraud, corruption, gross negligence,
or misbehavior of one or more arbitrators or umpire, or of evident
mistake acknowledged by the arbitrators or umpire, who may have
signed the award. (m)

2. Any party feeling himself aggrieved by any award made a rule
of Court as aforesaid, and conceiving that he has just ground to set
aside said award, may apply to the Court for that purpose by motion
at the ensuing term of said Court, on giving the opposite party, or
his attorney, ten days’ previous notice of such intended application,
and of the grounds on which the motion will be made, to set aside
said award; and if the award be made during the term of the Court,
and there be sufiicient time before the end of the term to give the
said notice of ten days, and the same be given, the motion to set
aside the award may be made during that term. (72)

3. The Court in which any motion may be made to set aside any
award made as aforesaid, shall require affidavit of the facts constituting the ground on which the motion is made, and shall also, If
offered, receive affidavits on the other side, but no parol testimony
shall be admitted on either side. (0)

4. If no motion be made to set aside any award made as aforesaid, it may be entered of record, at the ensuingterm of said Court,
during the term thereof, and _so much of the said award as decrees
the payment of money by either party, shall have the force and
effect of a judgment duly docketed from the day_ of entering. said
award, upon which execution may be issued, as 111 cases of Judgment duly entered; and so far as the said award relates to the performance of any other lawful act, the party failing to comply with
said award shall be considered in contempt, and by the order of the
Court shall be committed to prison, there to remain without bail or
mainprize until he shall comply with the order of the Court 111 the

premises. (p)

CHAPTER X.

QF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE ERECTION OF MILLS, AND OTHER WATER
MACHINES, AND MILL DAMS, AND OF THE DUTY OF MILLERS.

SECT. 1. When T/Vrits of ad quad damnum shall issue, and the Proceedings therein.

1. WHENEVER any person owning lands in this State, on any
water course, the bed whereof belongs to himself, may desire to

erect a water grist-mill, or other machine or engine of public utility, f

and shall not have the fee simple property to the lands on the opposite side thereof, against which he would abut his dam, he shall
make application for a writ of ad quad damrmm to the Board of
County Commissioners of the county where the lands proposed for
abutment are, having previously given ten days’ notice of such application to the owner of such lands, his agent or attorney; and
the said Court shall thereupon order the aforesaid writ to be issued,
directed to the sheriff of the county, commanding him to summon
and empannel twelve householders, of kin to neither party, of said
county, to meet upon the lands so proposed for the abutment, on a
day to be named in said writ, to examine the same: Provided,
that nothing in this act shall be so construed, as to interfere with
any building, or other structures of the person, from whom any
land or tenements shall be taken as aforesaid, without the consent
of such person or owner of such lands; and in all cases where
there shall be any lands condemned as aforesaid, and either party
shall be thereby aggrieved, such person shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit Court or Supreme Courts of the State, as in
other cases commenced and determined, in said Courts. (s)

2. The said householders, when empannelled as aforesaid, shall
becharged, on oath, impartially to View said lands, 90 proposed for

an abutment, and to circumscribe by certain rnetes and bounds,
one acre thereof, having due regard to the interest of both parties,
and to appraise the same according to its value, and to examine
what other lands, above and below, may be overflowed by the erection of said dam or works, and to ascertain the value of the same,
and to whom they respectively belong, and what other damages
may arise, and to whom, from the erection of the same; which
inquest, when made as aforesaid, by said householders, shall be delivered to said sheriff, whose duty it shall be to return the same
to the Board of Commissioners ordering said writ; and if the
party applying for the same, shall pay the value of the lands ascertained, and the damages assessed as aforesaid, to the person entitled to the same, or, if the jury so empannelled shall not agree to
the said appraisement, and make up their inquest as aforesaid, it
shall be the duty of the said sheriff, at the expiration of four hours
thereafter, to discharge the said jury, and under the same writ proceed to empannel another jury; and so from time to time continue
to act, until such appraisement is made, and such inquisition be
found; and it shall be the duty of the said Board to grant fortliwith, permission for the erection of said dam and works: Provided, that in no case shall the same be granted, if the said householders, in the report, shall state that the injury likely to result to
the neighborhood, from the erection of said works, either by sickness or otherwise, will be greater than the benelits to be derived
from the same. ( t)

3. Where any mill or other water works have heretofore been
erected in this State, and the owner thereof is legally possessed of
the lands on one side of the stream only, or if the land of any other
person is overflowed thereby, or if his dam abuts upon the land of
any other person, it shall be lawful for such person or persons, to
whom the same belongs, his, her, or their agents or attorneys, to
sue out a writ of ad quad damnum, as aforesaid, and have the value
of the same ascertained, and the damages paid in, as is pointed out
in the preceding section of this act. (it)

4. If any person shall get permission, as aforesaid, to erect a

imill or other works, and shall fail to erect the same for the space

of two years after the date of said permission, or, having erected
the same, shall afterwards suffer them to go down and remain
vacant for two years, without attempting to re—establish the same,
every such person shall lose the right which he, she, or they had
acquired by said permission, or by the previous erection of said

mill or other works. (‘I’)

Sscr. 2. Of the Erection of Jlffills, :3-c., in the Western District.

1. Hereafter, whenever any person owning lands in the western
judicial district of this State, on any water course, the bed whereof

belongs to himself, may desire to erect a water grist-mill, or other
machine or engine of public utility thereon,.and_ shall not havelthe
fee simple property to the lands on the opposite side thereof, against
which he would abut his dam, he shall make application for a writ
of ad quad damnum to the County Commissioners of the county
where the lands proposed for abutment are, having previously given
ten days’ notice of such application to the owner of such lands, his
agent or attorney; and the said Board of Commissioners shall
thereupon order the aforesaid writ to be issued, directed to the
sheriff of the county, and commanding him to summon and empannel
twelve freeholders of said county, to meet upon the lands so proposed for the abutment, on a day to be named in said writ, to exam-i
ine the same: Provided, that nothing in this act shall be so construed as to interfere with any building or other structures of the
person from whom any lands or tenements shall be taken as aforesaid without the consent of such person or owner of such lands;
and in all cases where there shall be any lands condemned as aforesaid, and either party shall be thereby aggrieved, such person shall .
have the right of appeal to the Circuit Court or Supreme Court of
this State. (in)

2. The said freeholders when empannelled as aforesaid, shall be 1
charged on oath, impartially to view said lands so proposed for anl
abutment, and to circuinscribe by certain metes and bounds, one:
acre thereof, having due regard to the interests of both parties, and
to appraise the same according to its value; and to examine what
other lands, above and below, may be overflowed by the erection
of said dam or works; and to ascertain the value of the same, and
to whom they respectively belong, and what other damages may
arise, and to whom, from the erection of the same; which inquest
when made as aforesaid, by said freeholders, shall be delivered to
said sheriff, whose duty it shall be to return the same to the Board
of Commissioners ordering said writ ; and if the party applying for
the same shall pay the value of the lands ascertained, and the
damages assessed as aforesaid, to the person entitled to the same,
the said Board shall forthwith grant permission for the erection of
said dam and works: Provided, that in no case shall the same be
granted, if the said freeholders, in the report, shall state, that the
injury likely to result to the neighborhood from the erection of said
works, either by sickness or otherwise, will be greater than the
benefits derived from the same. (an)

3. Where any mill, or other water works, have heretofore been _
erected in the western judicial district of this State, and the owner “
thereof is legally possessed of the lands on one side of the stream n
only, or if the land of any other person is overflowed thereby, or
if his dam abuts upon the land of any other person, it shall be his
duty, within six months after the passage of this act, to apply for a
writ of ad quad damnmn, as aforesaid, and have the value of the
same ascertained, and the damages assessed and paid in the

manner pointed out in the preceding section of this act; and if he
shall fail to do so, it shall be lawful for the person or persons
whose lands are overflowed as aforesaid, or abutted upon by said
dams, to cause the same to be abated as a nuisance. (y)

4. If any person shall get permission as aforesaid, to erect a

C mill or other works, and shall fail to erect the same for the space

of two years after the date of said permission, or having erected
the same, shall afterward suffer them to go down and remain
vacant for two years, without attempting to re-establish the same,
every such person shall lose the right which he, she, or they had
acquired by said permission, or by the previous erection of said
mill or other works. (2)

Snow‘. 3. Of the Erection of Mill Dams near the Town of Quincy,
in the County of Gadsden.

1. From and after the passage of this act, it shall not be lawful

‘for any person or persons to dam any water for the purpose of

erecting any mill, or other water works, within three miles of the
town of Quincy in this State, except under the following restrictions and regulations, to wit: previous to the erecting of any such
dam or pond, it shall be the duty of the persons intending to construct the same, to apply to the Circuit Court, or Board of County
Commissioners, for a writ to be directed to the sheriff of the county,
commanding him to summon twelve lawful jurors of said county,
who shall be sworn before some Judge or Justice of the Peace, and
charged with the duty of inquiring if the said darn, or pond, when
so constructed, will prove detrimental to the health of said town. (a)

2. _The following shall be the manner of summoning a jury for
the trial or examination of such cause or causes, to wit : the sheriff
and clerk of the Circuit Court shall select from the tax list of the
county all the names of the duly qualified jurors residing within
the J ustice’s district, in which the said town is situated, and having
put the same on slips of paper into a box or hat, shall proceed to
draw therefrom twelve names, who shall be summoned by the
sheriff, within ten days, and shall constitute the jury contemplated
by this act. (6)

3. If the said jury, when so summoned, sworn, and charged as
aforesaid, shall say by their verdict, that the erection of such milldam, pond, or other water works, when so constructed, will prove
to be a nuisance, or detrimental to the health of the said town,
then it shall not be lawful to erect or construct the same. (c)

4. If any person or persons shall violate the provisions of this
act, it shall be lawful, and is hereby made the duty of the Judge of
the Circuit Court, or Board of County Commissioners, upon application of the magistrate of police, to issue a writ, commanding the

sheriff to abate the nuisance; and on refusing to abate the same,
the party convicted thereof, shall be lined in a sum not less than

live hundred (l0ll1l'S, at the discretion of a jury. (at)
5. The sheriff, clerk, jury, and justice shall be allowed such

costs as are allowed in cases of forcible entry and detainer, to be
paid by the party applying for such mill. (e)

Seer. 4. Of the Duty of Millers.

1. It shall be the duty of all owners of grist-mills throughout
this State, or persons employed in keeping the same, who grind for
toll,.to grind each person’s grain, taken to his or her mill, in the
order in which the same be received, not giving a preference to any
particular person, to the exclusion or injury of another, and that
no owner of a mill, or other person employed in keeping the same,
shall be allowed to retain as toll for grinding any corn, or other'

grain more than one-eighth part of the same. (f)
2. If any owner of a mill, or other person keeping the same,‘

shall refuse to grind any corn, or other grain, brought to his mill
for that purpose, in its proper turn and time, and in a proper manner, such mill being in order ‘to grind the same, or shall retain
more than one-eighth for toll, every such person, guilty of any of
said offenses, shall be liable to a fine of twenty dollars, to be
recovered before any Justice of the Peace, for the use of the person
suing for the same : Provided, that nothing herein contained shall
be construed to prevent any owner, or person employed in keeping
a mill, from grinding his own grain at any time, and to the
exclusion of any other person. (g)

CHAPTER XI.

OF PROCEEDINGS RELATIVE TO THE DRAINING OF LANDS.

Seer. 1. Of the Petition, Appointment of Commissioners, their
Duties, (Sec.

-VVHEIREAS, considerable bodies of land in several parts of this
State, he unimproved, because the owners have not power to cut
ditches through neighboring interfering lands into natural drains
and sinks, and as the improvement of such lands would not only
render them more useful to the proprietors, but would operate as a
public benefit :

I_. Be it enacted, that any person or persons seized of land
which is overflowed or liable to be overliowed with water, having

given two months’ notice by advertisement, set up at the courthouse door of the county wherein the land lies, and to the owners
of, or persons- residing on the land, through which he wishes to cut
a ditch for the purpose of draining his lands, of his intention to
apply to the Board of County Commissioners of said County for a
commission to have a way laid out for that purpose, (and said application may be made in person or by petition in writing to said
Board,) and upon proof being made to the satisfaction of the
Board, that notice has been given as aforesaid, or upon the other
persons interested appearing and waiving the notice as aforesaid,
the Board may issue a commission to any three freeholders in said
county, agreed on by all parties, empowering them, or a majority of
them, to lay out a way for a ditch to run through the lands mentioned in the commission, according to the directions of this act,
but if the persons interested shall not agree on the persons to be
commissioned, then, and in that case, the said Board shall appoint
three discreet persons, freeholders, not interested in the lands, nor
related by consanguinity or affinity to either of the parties, to whom
a commission shall issue as aforesaid. (h)

2. The said Commissioners, or a majority of them, shall give

‘notice, by advertisement, set up at the court-house door of the

county, and at such other places as they may deem most effectual,
of the time of their meeting, thirty days at least before their meeting, which meeting shall be on the land in and upon which said
ditch or drain shall be petitioned to be cut, when they shall enter
upon and proceed in the execution of their commission, agreeably
to the notice given by them, as aforesaid ; but before any commissioner shall proceed in the execution of any commission, otherwise
than by notice as aforesaid, he shall take an oath or afhrmation
before some Justice of the Peace, or some one of the commissioners,
(who are hereby authorized to administer the same,) that he will,
without favor or partiality, lay out a way for a ditch, which,
according to the best of his judgment, will best answer for draining
off the water from the lands mentioned in said commission, regarding the interest of all parties, and truly to ascertain the damages,
if any, to the person or persons through whose land or lands such
ditch shall be cut, and a true return to make thereof, to the Board:
Provided, always, that no such ditch shall be made or laid out
through any garden, yard, or grove, except with the consent of the
proprietor : And provider}, also, that any person apprehending lumself or herself aggrieved by the determination of the Board,.e1ther
in granting or refusing to grant the commission aforesaid, or in any
matter in consequence of this act, may appeal to the Circuit Court,
holden in or for said county, whose determination shall be final. (13)

3. The said commissioners, or any one or more of them, may
adjourn from time to time as he or they may think necessary, and

they, or a majority of them, shal-l cause a way for the ditch (in case
such ditch shall be deemed necessary) to be marked out by the
surveyor of the county, or by such other person as they ‘may think
fit to appoint for the purpose, of such width, not exceeding twenty
feet, and of such length as they may deem necessary for draining
off the water, regarding the interest of all the persons through
whose lands the water may run, until it shall be emptied into some
branch, or other sufiicient vent to discharge the same, and may
cause trees to be marked, or marks to be set up to perpetuate the
location of the same. (It)

4. The commissioners, or a majority of them, shall determine
the compensation to be made to the owners of the lands, through
which the ditch shall pass, which compensation, together with all
expenses attending the commission, shall be paid by the person or
persons applying for such commission, and the ditch, when cut,
shall be kept open and repaired at the expense of the person or
persons applying for the same. (1)

SECT. 2. Of the Record of Proceedings, and Ofences against this
Act, and Removal of Obstructions to natural Drains.

1. After any way or ditch shall be laid out agreeably to this act,i
the Court shall direct the application for such way or ditch, and the '
return thereof, to be recorded at the expense of the party applying
for the same; and thereupon, and thereafter, the privilege of venting and draining off water, shall be vested in the person or persons
applying for the same, and paying for it, and to their heirs and
assigns for ever. (m)

2. It shall not be lawful for any person to stop up, or change, or
in any way to impede the flowing of the water in any ditch or cut,‘
under this act, under the penalty of twenty dollars for every such
offense, to be paid to the party injured, and to be recovered before
any Justice of the Peace : Provided, always, that the owners of any
lands through which a ditch, laid out as aforesaid, may run, shall
not be debarred of the privilege of crossing said ditch with convenient bridges, and the necessary fences for enclosing and
dividing the lands. 

3. And whereas, natural drains, sinks, and branches are fre-1
quently choked up by the falling down of trees or other obstruc-'
tions, so as to occasion the adjacent lands to be overiiowed withl
by water : ‘

Be it thereforee further enacted, that the person or persons
whose lands shall be overflowed with water, in consequence of
impediments from the falling of the trees or fioating of timber, or
other obstructions, across any natural drain, sink, or branch, may
give notice to the owner of the land on which such impediments
may be, and if he shall refuse or neglect to remove the same after

two days’ notice’, then it shall be lawful for the person or persons
.whose land may be overflowed as aforesaid, to cause the said
* obstructions to be removed. (0)
E‘. 4. Nothing in this act shall be construed to affect the rights‘ of
the owners of mills, nor shall any commissioner under this act
have power to lay out a ditch to draw off the water from any

mill. (p)

Snow. 3. Compensation to Commissioners, Surveyors and Chain
Carriers.

.- I. Each commissioner shall be entitled to one dollar and twenty live cents for every day he shall attend in the execution of such
commission; any person acting as surveyor shall receive such
allowance per day as shall be adjudged by the commissioners, not
exceeding two dollars and lifty cents for every day he shall be necessarily employed; and each chain carrier shall be entitled to

receive one dollar per day, to be paid by the person at whose request the service shall be performed, and if necessary, attachment

shall be issued by the Circuit Court to compel such payment. (q)

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE LIEN OF BUILDERS, MECHANICS, ARTISANS, LABDRERS, OVERSEERS, SHIPWRIGHTS, SHIP-GHANDLERS, MATERIAL MEN, AND

CREWS OF STEAM BOATS, ETC.

SECT. 1. Of the Liens of Builders, II/Iechanics, Material Men,
Laborers, (Sec.

- 1. FROM and after the first day of March next, master builders
‘and mechanics of every denomination in the State of Florida, contracting and engaging to put up and erect buildings of every description, or engaging to perform jobs of work on any such buildings,
shall be entitled to, and shall have a lien on all such buildings as
they may put up, or erect, or work upon, until the compensation
for services shall be fully paid and satisfied to the amount agreed

upon between the contracting parties, unless a contrary stipulation
be expressly entered into at the time the contract is made, or work

done. (1') _ _.
2. The persons aforementioned shall enforce the aforesaid hen

only in the following cases: first, where the contract shall be reduced to writing and signed by the parties making the same;

second, where the amount shall be liquidated between the contracting parties, and a net balance be struck 1n_favor of the persons
contracting to perform as aforesaid, or to provide materlals. (s)

3. All contracts entered into, liquidated, or net balance struck,
pursuant to the provisions of this act, shall be recorded 1n the
clerk’s office of the Circuit Court for the countywhere such contract shall be required to be executed, within thirty days after their
execution, and upon failing to record the same, the party in whose
favor the same may be made, shall be deprived of all benefit arising
under said act. (I!) _

4. Artisans, builders, and mechanics, and those ‘who furnish
materials for buildings under contract with the proprietor thereof,
and all sub-contractors, shall have alien for such material furnished,
and for work and labor done on houses and other edifices by them
hereafter erected in whole or in part, each artisan, builder, mechanic, laborer and sub-contractor for his own work and materials
furnished. (to)

5. It shall be the duty of every person, except a sub-contractor,
who wishes to avail himself of the benefits of this act, to file with
the clerk of the Circuit Court of the county in which the building
to be charged with the lien is situated, and within six months after
the materials shall have been furnished, or the work and labor performed, a just and true account of the demand due him after all
credits, which is to be alien upon such building; and he shall
verify the said account by his own oath or that of some other person, and shall also file at the same time a correct description of
the property to be charged with said lien. ('11)

6. Every sub-contractor wishing to avail himself of the benefits
of this act shall give notice in writing, to the owner or proprietor
or his agent, of his intention to furnish materials for, or perform
labor on the building, and the probable value thereof, and if afterwards (the proprietor or his agent not objecting) materials are
furnished, or labor done, the sub-contractor shall settle with the
contractor therefore, and having made the settlement in writing, the
same signed by the contractor and certified by him to be just, shall
be presented to the owner, or proprietor, or his agent, and left with
him; and within ten days from the time the materials shall have
been furnished, or the labor performed, the sub-contractor shall
file with the clerk of the Circuit Court of the county in which the
building is situated, a copy of the settlement between him and the
contractor, which shall be a lien on the building for which the materials were furnished, or on which the labor was performed, and
the sub-contractor shall at the same time file a correct description
of the property to be charged with the lien. (10)

‘ 7. The certificate of settlement made as aforesaid, shall be a justification to the employer in withdrawing from the contractor the
amount appearing thereby to be due to the sub-contractor, until he

I‘ is satisfied that the same has been paid; the employer shall become

F

I
I

the debtor of the sub-contractor for the amount, and may use it as
a set-off, or plead its payment in bar of an action therefore by the
contractor. 

8. All payments made by the proprietor or owner of a building-.,
before he is served with notice of the filing, of a settlement, shall be,
valid, and he shall only be liable to the sub-contractor for the,
amount due from him to the contractor at the time of the service of
such notice ; and no owner or proprietor of any building shall byvirtue of any thing contained in this act be bound to pay the value,
of any work or materials, or subject. to any, suit therefore, before theexpiration of the time for which credit for such. work and materials
may have been agreed upon between t-he owner and contractor, if
such contract for credit shall have been made before. t-he_sub-con-.
tractor shall have furnished any materials or performed any- work.
(41)

9. It- shall be the duty of the -_ clerk to make an abstract of all
liens filedin his office under this act. in a book to be kept by him
for that purpose, containing the name of the person laying or imposing the lien and of him against whom, or upon whose contract.
it is imposed, the amount of said lien, and a description of the:
property to be charged, for which the clerk shall receive the same:
fees-_ as in other cas_es. (2)

Seer. 2. Of the Mode of Proceeding to enforce said, Lien.

1. Whenever any person shall wish to proceed against any
property upon which he shall have a lien by virtue of this act, he
may commence his suit in the ordinary form, and shall have judgment against the original debtor for the amount that shall be found
due to him, and shall have the liberty of taking his execution
against such a proportional part of the property charged with the,
lien, as his demand bears to the whole amount of liens that are
charged upon the said property under this act, (which proportional.
part shall be decided by the Court,) and also against other property
of the defendant; but if a part of the property cannot be separated?
from the residue and sold without damage to the whole, then the
whole may be sold subject to all other encumbrances undertlns
act ; but no execution shall issue agains_t the property charged Wllill,
such lien, unless the defendant shall have owned or possessedthe
property at the time of the commencement of said suit, or unless a
scire acias shall first have issued and been served upon the owner
or possessor of such property, requiring him to appear and show

cause why a judgment should not be entered up and execution had
against such property. (a) . _

'2. In all cases under this act it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to
proceed by scire facias against the original debtor and against all
and every person or persons owning or possessing the property
against which he wishes to proceed; but no Judgment to be rendered on the scirefacias shall authorize the issuing of any execution, except on the property charged with said lien, or such part

thereof as the Court shall direct. (b) _
3. The service of a scirefacias shall be in the same manner as

that of a summons, except upon those defendants who cannot be
found in the county where the proceedings are had, and are not
residents of such county; and upon such defendants, the service
shall be by affixing a copy of the scirefacias upon the door of the
building upon which the lien is charged for six weeks at least before the return of the said satire facias. (c) _

4. N o lien shall bind any building for a longer time than twelve
months after the said building is iinished, by virtue of this act,
unless suit shall have been brought thereon in the manner provided
by law. (:1)

5. Within five days after the demand of any sub-contractor who
may have filed his lien by virtue of this act, shall be satisfied either
by the principal contractor or the owner of the property, such subcontractor shall Iile in the office of the clerk in which the lien is
filed, a release of the same under a penalty of one hundred dollars,
to be recovered by action of debt in the name of the owner of the
property affected by the lien; and whenever any debt which is a
lien upon any building, shall be paid to any creditor other than a
sub-contractor, he_ shall enter satisfaction on the margin of the record
of said lien, and if any creditor refuse or neglect to enter such satisfaction within ten days after the payment and request, he shall
forfeit the amount of the lien which he claimed: to be recovered

by action of debt in the name and for the use of the owner of the
building. (6)

SECT. 3. Of the Ewtent qf such Lien.

1. The land upon which any building shall be erected, together
with a convenient space around the same, not exceeding live hundred square feet clear of the building, shall also be subject to the
liens which may be created by virtue of this act, if the said land
shall have been at the time of erecting the said building the property of the person who shall have caused the same to be erected. (f)

2. If the person who shall have caused the building to be
erected has an estate in fee, for life, or any less estate, either in law

or in equity, or if the land on which the building is erected at the
time of the contract for building or for furnishing materials therefore, 1s mortgaged or under any other liens or encumbrance, by contract or statute, the person who procures the work to be done, shall
nevertheless be considered as the owner to the extent of his right
and interest in the land, and the lien before provided for by this act
shall bind his whole estate and interest therein, and the creditor
may cause the right of redemption, or whatever other right or estate
the owner had in the land, to be sold and applied to the discharge
of his debts according to the provisions of this act. (g)

SECT. 4. Of the Lien of Ship-wrights, Ship-chrmdlers, c§—c.

1. Ship-chandlers, storekeepers and all dealers, mechanics and
workmen shall have a lien on any ship, vessel, steamboat or other
water craft, for all stores, provisions, rigging or other materials, or
labor or services of any kind whate_ver furnished, or rendered to or
for the use of any such ship or vessel, or steamboat, or other water
craft, and which lien shall have a preference over all others : Provided, however, that this right of lien is to cease if not enforced
within thirty days after the same accrued. (h)

SECT. 5. Of the Lien of Overseers, and how enforced.

1. In all cases the managers or overseers of plantations shall
have a lien on a part of the crop which they did aid and assist in
cultivating to maturity, suilicient to secure their salary, wages or
compensation for the time they have rendered service in preparing
and cultivating such crops, and such lien shall have preference
over all others; and if any overseer or manager of a plantation
shall object to the removal of the crop from the plantation before
his wages are paid, then three disinterested planters residing in the
neighborhood, shall be chosen by the parties disagreeing, to reserve
such portion of the crop as may be necessary to secure the amount
due for the overseers’ wages, and should the parties be unable to
agree upon three disinterested planters, then it shall be lawful for
either party to call in a magistrate residing near the plantation, who
shall set apart such portion of the crop as he may deem sufficient
to secure said overseers’ wages; such award, arbitrament or allotment shall be final, and the planters or magistrate (as the case
may be) are hereby authorized and empowered to put the said
overseers in possession of said share or portion of the crop : Provided, however, nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting an
appeal therefrom by either party to the Circuit Court, whlch Said
appeal shall be taken up in the same manner as appeals from the

Justices’ Court. ('5)

SECT. 6. Of the Lien of Artisans on Personal Chattels, and the
Mode of Enforcement.

1. Every mechanic or workman who shall do any work or
repairs upon any article, or property sent or delivered to be
mended or repaired, shall have a hen on the same, for the amount
of his or her bill for the work and materials furnished; and if the
same be not paid for and taken away within three months after
uch article or property has been repaired, it shall be lawful for
such mechanic or workman to give the sheriff of the county
wherein such mechanic or workman resides, possession of_ such
article or property so repaired, together with the amount of his bill
for such repairs, and it shall thereupon be the duty of the sheriff
to proceed to advertise and sell such article in the same manner
that property taken under execution is advertised and sold; and
after paying the costs of such advertisement and sale, shall pay
,.-such mechanic or workman, his or her bill for such mending or
repairs, or materials furnished, if the proceeds of the sale shall be
sufficient to discharge the sa.me,_and the residue if any there be,
shall be paid over to the owner of such article or articles, or his or
her legal representatives; but if such residue is not called for
within thirty days after the sale, by the owner, or some person
authorized to receive the same, it shall be the’ duty of the sheriff
to pay the residue over to the school commissioners of his county:
Provided, however, that if the owner or some person authorized by
him shall make a demand on the said school commissioners for
the said residue, within one year from the time they shall have
received it, he or she shall be entitled to the same. (It)

SECT. 7. Of the Lion of Steamboat Men and others navigating the
Bay and Harbor of Apalachicola.

1. From and after the passage of this act, all persons employed
either as captain, pilot, engineer, lirst or second mate, fireman,
deck hand, or other persons in any other capacity whatsoever, and
all material men, merchants, or others, for furnishing, fitting out,
or work done on all steamboats, lighters, and other water crafts
engaged in- the navigation of the'Apalachicola river, and lighters
navigating the bay of Apalachicola, for any debt, dues, wages, or
demands, that he, she, or they may and shall have against the
owner or owners of said steamboats, or other water crafts, for
personal servicesdone, rendered, or performed on board the same,
and for wood and provisions, shall have‘ an exclusive lien on said
steamboat, lighter or other water’ craft, against the owner or
owners-thereof, superior in dignity to, and of higher claim than, all
other encumbrance, no matter of what nature or sort the same may
be: Provided, that he, she, or they shall demand and prosecute
the collection of the same as hereinafter to be provided for, at any

time within‘ twelve months after the same shall become due and
payable. (Z)

2. Whenever any captain, pilot, engineer, first or second mate,
fireman, deck hand, merchant, builder, material man, or any other
person employed on, or for materials, goods, or supplies furnished
any steamboat, lighter, or other water crafts navigating or running
on the Apalachicola river and bay of Apalachicola, shall have any
claim for services rendered on board the same, or for provisions,
stores, or work and labor done, shall be desirous of collecting the
same, upon the said debt becoming due and refusal to pay the same
upon demand made, he, she, or they may, upon application to any
Judge of the Circuit Court in any county in which said steamboat,
lighter, or other water craft, may then lie, upon the same arriving
at the landing, port, or place of destination to which the same has
been freighted, make affidavit before the said Judge of the amount
due him, her, or them, for any labor, services, or supplies, by him,
her or them done and performed, or provisions or stores furnished
said steamboat, or other water craft, and specify the name thereof ;"*
whereupon the said Judge shall grant an order to the clerk of the
Circuit Court of the county wherein the proceedings shall have
been commenced, requiring said clerk to enter up judgment upon
said affidavit, in favor of said applicant, for the amount sworn to be
due; and it shall be the duty of said clerk to issue instanter an
execution therefore against the owner or owners of said steamboat,
lighter, or other water craft, to be directed to the sheriff of the
county, whose duty it shall be forthwith to levy said execution
upon the said steamboat, or other water craft, and advertise and
sell the same, under the same rules and regulations as govern
sheriffs’ sales in other cases: Provided, the said demand exceeds
the sum of fifty dollars. (m)

3. When said sum shall be for fifty dollars or less, then, and in
that case, the application shall be made to any J ustiice of the Peace
in the district where said steamboat, lighter, or other water craft
may then be, as aforesaid, the same being at the place to which the
same was freighted; and the said Justice of the Peace, upon the
filing of the said aliidavit, shall issue execution therefore instanter
for the amount sworn to be due against said steamboat, lighter or
other water craft, and the owner or owners thereof, and deliver the
same to any lawful constable of the district aforesaid, whose duty
it shall be forthwith to levy said execution on said steamboat or
other water craft, whose duty it shall be to advertise and sell as in
other cases. (72) _

4. Whenever any owner or owners, or other person having control of any steamboat, lighter or other watercraft, against which
any proceeding may be had under the foregoing provisions of this
act, may be desirous of contesting said claim or demand, on
the ground that the same or some part thereof is not due and

owing, he, she, or they shall file his, her, or their affidavit, denying that the whole or some part thereof was due at the time the
applicant filed his aliidavit, as provided for in the second section of
this act; but when only a part is denied on oath, the amount
admitted to be due shall be paid, before the officer levying said
execution shall deliver up the property ‘levied on, as hereinbefore
specified; and that after filing the afhdavit as above required in this
section, and giving bond with good security, residing _in the county
where such proceedings may be had, to the plaintifff in double the
amount claimed, conditioned for the payment of the eventual condemnation money and all costs incurred theron; and ‘whenever
said affidavit and bond shall be filed as aforesaid, the levying officer
shall deliver up the property levied on, and return the affidavit and
bond to the next Court in said county, to which said execution
may have been returnable, upon which an issue shall be made up
and formed, and the truth of the same shall be tried by a Jury of
said Courts respectively at the first term of said Court, unlessgood
cause be shown for a continuance; but the same shall be continued
only for one term by each party ; and from the verdict rendered in
such case, either party shall have the power or privilege to enter an

appeal. (0)

CHAPTER XIII.

OF THE PROCEEDINGS AGAINST DELINQUENT DEBTORS OF THE STATE.

SECT. 1. Of Summary Proceedings from the Treasury of the
State.

1. ALL tax collectors, sheriffs, auctioneers or other persons,f
charged with the collecting of any revenue or demand due the:
State of Florida, who shall fail to pay over to the Treasurer of the
State the amount by them collected, at the time required of them
by law, shall be proceeded against in the following manner, to wit.
the Treasurer of the State shall notify such defaiilter, and his
securities, that he shall on a certain day by him to be named in
said notice, issue an execution against said defaulter and his secu- I
rities for the amount that may appear to be due the State, on the
books of the Treasury Department; and in case the said defaulter
shall neglect to make an exhibit, whereby the Comptroller of Public Accounts may raise an account against him, when required to
do so, then and in that case, the Treasurer is hereby authorized and required to apply to the Secretary of State for a copy
of such'officer’s bond, and the said Treasurer shall issue execution
for the amount of the penalty of said defaulter’s bond, which exe- '5
cution shall be directed to the sheriff or coroner, as the case may 1”

be, of the county where such defaulter or his securities may reside;
and the said sheriff or coroner, as the case may be, shall proceed to
levy and collect the amount claimed in said writ, together’ with all
legal costs, in the same manner as is required in the collection of
debts on execution from the Courts of law in this State. (a)

2. All executions issued under the provisions of this act shall

‘ bear test in the name of the Governor, for the time being, and inno instance shall the Treasurer issue an execution, until he shall
have given at least forty days’ notice to such defaulter and his
securities, by addressing a notice in writing, which notice shall be
sent by mail, directed to the post-office nearest the place where
such persons most usually reside, i-n the following manner : “ From’the Treasurer of the State of Florida, to A. B., tax col-lector, sheriff
or auctioneer, as the case may be : ” Provided, that the time of such
notice shall, in all instances, be reckoned from the time such

notice shall be mailed at the city of Tallahassee. ((9).

Snow. 2. Of Proceedings before the Courts, and by Warrant of
Distress.

t 1. When any revenue oliicer or other person accountable for pub‘: lic money, shall neglect or refuse to pay into the treasury the sum or
balance reported to be due to the State, upon the adjustment of his
account, it shall be the duty of the comptroller immediately to
hand over to the proper Solicitor of the State, the statement of the
sum or balance, certified under his hand and seal of office, (if he
have one, if not, under his private seal,) so due; and it shall be,
and it is hereby made the duty of the said Solicitor to institute.
suit for the recovery of the same, adding to the sum or balance
stated to be due on such account the commissions of the delinquent, which shall be forfeited in every instance, where suit is
commenced and judgment is obtained thereon, and an interest of
eight per eentum per annum-, from the time of receiving, the money
until it shall be paid into the treasury. (p)

__ 2. In every case of delinquency, where suit has been or shall be

instituted‘, the statement aforesaid, certified as aforesaid, shall be‘
admitted as evidence, and the Court trying the cause shall be there-'
upon authorized to grant judgment and award execution accord’ingly. And all copies of bonds, contracts, or other papers relating,
to, or connected with, the settlement of any account between the
State and an individual, when certified as aforesaid to be true
eopies of the originals, may be annexed to such statement afore-'

said, and shall have equal validity and be entitled to the same
degree of credit which would be due to the orlglnal papers 1f pro-c
duced and authenticated in Court : Provided, where suit 1S brought
upon a bond or other sealed instrument, and the defendant shall
plead non est factum, or upon motion to the Court, such plea or
motion being verified by the oath or affirmatlon of the defendant,‘
it shall be lawful for the Court to take the same Into consideration,
and if it shall appear necessary for the attainment of justice, to
require the production of the original bond, contract, or other
paper, speciiied in such affidavit. (9)

3. Where suit shall be instituted against any person or persons,
indebted to the State as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the Court,
where the same may be pending, to grant judgment at the return
term, upon motion, unless the defendant shall, in open Court, the
solicitor being present, make oath or affirmation that he IS equitably entitled to credits which had been, previous to the commencement of the suit, submitted to the consideration of the Comptroller
of Public Accounts and rejected, specifying each particular claim
as rejected in the affidavit, and that he cannot then come safely to
trial ; oath or affirmation to this effect being made, subscribed, and
filed, if the Court will thereupon be satisfied, a continuance until
the next succeeding term may be granted, but not otherwise,
unless as provided in the preceding section. (7')

4. In suits between the State and individuals, no claim for an
credit shall be allowed upon trial, but such as shall appear to have1
been presented to the comptroller for his examination, and by him‘
disallowed, in whole or in part, unless it should be proved to the
satisfaction of the Court, that the defendant is, at the time of trial,
in possession of vouchers not before in his power to procure, and
that he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credit at
the comptroller’s office, by absence from the State, or some unavoidable accident. (5)

5. When any revenue officer or other person, now indebted, or
hereafter becoming indebted to the State, by bond or otherwise,
shall become insolvent, or when the estate of any deceased debtor,
in the hands of executors or administrators, shall not be sufficient
to pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
State shall be first satisfied; and the priority hereby established
shall be deemed to extend as well to cases in which a debtor not
having sufficient property to pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary assignment thereof, or in which the estate and effects of an
absconding, concealed, or absent debtor, shall be attached by process of law, as to cases in which the party shall be absolutely insolvent. (t)

6. All writs of execution upon any judgment obtained for the
use of the State, in any of the Courts of the State, in any one

1
1

county, may run and be executed in any other county of the same,
but shall be issued from and made returnable to the Court where
the judgment was obtained, any law to the contrary notwithstanding. (to)

7. If any revenue officer, or other person, who shall have re'ceived public money before it is paid into the treasury of this

State, shall fail to render his account, or pay over the same, in
the manner or within the time required by law, it shall be the
duty of the comptroller to cause to be stated the account of such
revenue officer or other person, exhibiting truly the amount due
the State, and certify the same as aforesaid to the Solicitor of
the proper circuit, who is hereby authorized and required to issue
a warrant of distress against such delinquent officer or other person
and his sureties, directed to the sheriff of the county in which
such delinquent officer or other person and his sureties shall resside; and when the said officer or other person and his sureties
shall reside in different counties, or where they or either of them
shall reside in a county other than that in which the estate of
either may be situated, which may be intended to be taken and
sold, then such warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of such
counties, and their deputies, respectively, therein specifying the
amount with which such delinquent is chargeable, and the sums,
if any, which have been paid; and the sheriff authorized to execute such warrant shall, by himself or by his deputy, proceed to levy
and collect the sum remaining due, by distress and sale of the
lands and tenements, goods and chattels, of such delinquent officer
or other person, having given ten days’ previous notice of such intended sale, by atiixing an advertisement of the property to be sold,
at two or more public places, in the town or county where the
owner of such lands or tenements, goods or chattels were taken,
or in the town or county where the owner of such lands or tenements, goods or chattels, may reside; and if the lands or tenements, goods or chattels, be not sufficient to satisfy the said warrant, the same may be levied upon the person of such officer or
other person, who may be committed to prison, there to remain
until he shall have given in, on oath, a full, complete, and true account of all the property he possesses or claims, whether, real,
personal, or mixed; notwithstanding the commitment of such
officer or other person, or if he abscond, or if lands and tenements,
goods and chattels, cannot be found sufficient to satisfy the said
warrant, the sheriff or his deputy may and shall proceed to levy
and collect the sum which remains due by such delinquent officer
or other person, by the distress and sale of the lands and tenements, goods and chattels of the surety or sureties of such officer
or other person, giving notice as aforesaid. (v)

8. No account shall be evidence of debt, or be allowed as an'ofi3
set in any suit where the State is a party, until it first be audited
and allowed at the treasury department; and all claims of the

State against any individual, when properly certified by the comptroller, under the seal of his oiiice, shall» be received as conclusive

evidence of such debt in any Court of this State. 

CHAPTER XIV.

OF THE RECORD OF MARKS AND BRANDS, AND OF ' PROCEEDINGS
IN CASES OF ESTRAYS, AND WRECKED PROPERTY.

Snow. 1. Of the Record of Marks and Brands qf Cattle, ($11.

1. FROM and after the passing of this act, it shall be-lawful for
all persons residing in this State, to record their marks and brands}
in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court in which such person.
resides; and_ if any person shall neglect to record the same, then, ‘
and in that case, whenever any horses, mules, cattle, hogs, or
sheep shall or may happen to be in dispute between the party so
recording his marks and brands, and any other person not having
recorded as aforesaid, both having one and the same marks and
brands, and the property being found in the possession of the person complying with the provisions of this act, the party, so claiming any such property in dispute as aforesaid-, shall not be allowed to take the same out of the hands of the person found in
possession, without such claimant can prove by disinterested testimony such property so in dispute to be his property, such proof,
when the value of the property is under fifty dollars, to be made
before any Justice of the Peace of the county: where such property
may be found, and if above that value before any Court having
jurisdiction thereof. ((1)

2. When two or more persons shall have the same mark and
brands, each of them recorded, in such case the oldest record shall
be evidence of right, so far as to compel the other party, by disin- ‘
terested testimony, to prove his property in the manner hereinafter
directed. (b)

3. It shall be the duty of the clerks, upon the application of any.
person or persons, to record all marks and brands in books, to be

ept by them for that purpose, and to give certified copies thereof,
when required by any person or persons, for» whichvthey shall receive the sum of twenty-five cents. (c)

SECT. 2. W'hat shall be considered Estrays, by whom, and how
taken up, and Disposition of some.

1. Cattle of all kinds, hogs, sheep and goats, wandering about
the neighborhood for six months, and stone horses, geldings, mares,
filleys, colts, asses and mules for three months, shall be considered
estrays. (ti)

2. If any person or persons shall vexatiously or maliciously take
up as an estray any horse, mule, cattle, sheep or swine, contrary to
the true intent and meaning of this act, then, and in that case
such person or persons shall be liable to an action for damages to
the party injured, and shall be fined not more than ten dollars at
the discretion of the Justice. (.9)

3. From and after the passage of this act, it shall and may be
lawful for any person, on his own freehold or improvement, or
other person having charge of each of such freehold or improvement, in the absence‘ of the owner thereof, and not elsewhere, to
take up all estrays, whether horse, mare, colt, iilley, ass, mule, or
treat cattle, sheep, goats or hogs, that may be found straying away
from their owners; and every person taking up estrays as above,
shall, within five days, in case such estrays have been broken to
service, take or drive it or them before a Justice of the Peace in
the county, whose duty it shall be, and he is hereby required to
take down in writing a particular description of the marks, natural and artificial, brands, stature, age, and color, of every such
estray or estrays; and immediately to issue his warrant to two or
more persons of the vicinage, commanding them, having been
first duly sworn thereto, well and truly to appraise or ascertain the
value of such estrays, which appraisement or valuation and description as above, together with the name of the taker up, and his
place of abode, the said Justice shall, within five days, transmit
to the clerk of the Circuit Court of said county, having special
care that the person or persons taking up such estrays do solemnly
swear or afhrm, that he or they have not altered, or caused to be
altered, the marks or brands of such estrays, and, to the best of his
knowledge and belief, such marks or brands have or have not (as
the case may be) in any case been altered’, and that the owner to
him or them is unknown. (f)

4. In case any person shall take up any such estrayed neat cat_tle, sheep, goats, or hogs,. he shall cause the same to be viewed by

a householder in the county in which the same shall happen, and
the taker up shall be compelled to advertise said estray at least five
days, at the place of holding Justices’ Courts in said district, prior
to tolling; and shall immediately thereafter go with such householder before a Justice of the Peace for said county, and make
oath before him, that the same was taken up at his plantation or

place of residence in the said county, and that the marks or brands of

such estray have not to the best of his knowledge and belief been «
altered; and the said Justice shall take from the taker up and

householder, upon oath, a particular and exact description of the

marks, brands, color, and age, of all and every such neat cattle,

sheep, goats, or hogs; and such Justice shall, in manner as above

directed, issue his warrant, for the appraisement of such estrays,

which description and valuation shall by said Justice, within live

days, be transmitted to the clerk of the Circuit Court, by him to

be disposed of as hereinafter directed. (g)

5. From and after the passage of this act, it shall be lawful forany person to take up all animals of whatever kind that may be‘
found straying from their owners, and Within five days, if such
animals have been broken to service, take or drive them before a
Justice of the Peace of the district in which the animals have been
taken up, (and if there is no Justice of the Peace in that district,)

-then to the next adjoining district in which there is one, whose

duty it shall be to take down in writing a full description of the
estray or estrays, thus tolled before him, and immediately to cause it
or them to be appraised by two or more discreet persons, they being
first sworn well and truly to ascertain the value of such estray, which
appraisement and description, together with the name of the taker
up, and his place of residence, the said Justice of the Peace shall
within five days return to the clerk of the Circuit Court. (71)

6. It shall be the duty of every Justice of the Peace, before
whom any estrays shall be carried as aforesaid, to enter a true copy‘
of the certificate, by him transmitted to the clerk of the Circuit
Court, in a book to be by him kept for that purpose. 

'7. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the Circuit Court in each
county in this State, and he is hereby required to receive and enter '
in a book by him to be provided and kept for that purpose, all such
certificates of description and appraisement as to him shall be transmitted from the respective Justices of the county. (Ir)

8. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the Circuit Court, and he
is hereby required to advertise the said estray, with description and
the name of the taker up, as returned to him by the Justice of the
Peace, at the Court-house door of the county, and in one of the
public gazettes in the State for two months, and at the first sherifi’s
sale day, thereafter, upon giving ten days’ notice at such places as
is usual for advertising the sheriff sales of said county, cause the
estray to be sold at public outcry to the highest bidder for cash,
and pay over the proceeds of such sale to the county treasurer or
clerk, after paying the charges and fees as prescribed by the act,
of which this is an amendment: Provided, nevertheless, that the
proceeds of such sale shall remain in the county treasury for six

months, liable to be claimed by any person who may make satisfactory proof to the Board of County Commissioners, that he was legal
owner of the estray which has been sold. (1)

9. It shall be the duty of the taker up, and he is hereby required- to bring to the Court-house, or place of holding Court in the county
in which he resides, and deliver to the clerk of the Circuit Court
every such estrayed horse, mare, colt, iilley, ass, or mule, on the
first sheriff s sale day that shall happen after the expiration of two
months from the time of entering such estray with the Justice of
the Peace; and it shall be the duty of the clerks of the Circuit
Courts of their respective counties in this State, to proceed to sell
such estrays as aforesaid, on the day aforesaid, between the usual
hours of sale, for ready money, to the highest bidder; which money
he shall pay over to the county treasurer for county purposes, after
defraying the charges or fees hereinafter directed; and every taker
up who shall neglect or refuse to comply with these requisitions, shall
be liable for double the amount of the appraisement, to be collected
by execution, under the hand and seal of the clerk of the Circuit
Court respectively, by order of the presiding officer of the Board of
County Commissioners at the next term thereafter; and the said
forfeiture, when collected, shall be applied to the use of thecounty,
after deducting the legal fees. 

10. In case any person shall take up as aforesaid any neat
cattle, sheep, goats, or hogs, and no person shall appear and make
satisfactory proof within one month that the said estrays are his or
their property, the Justice of the Peace having given five days’
notice, by advertisement in two of the most public places in the
J ustice’s district wherein he resides, shall proceed to sell the said
estrays, by his constable, upon one of his regular Court days, between the usual hours, for ready money, to the highest bidder ; and
it shall be the duty of the Justices of the Peace of the several
counties of this State, and they are hereby required to pay to the
treasurer of the county, of their respective counties, of each term
of sai-d Court, all monies in their hands that have arisen from the
sales of estrays as aforesaid, ded-ucting five per centum for commissions, and such other charges as are allowed by law; and monies
so paid shall be subject to the order of the ‘presiding officer of the
Boa-rd of County Commissioners. (22)

11. The time limited in the sixth section of the foregoing recited
act, for claiming neat cattle, sheep, goats, or hogs, shall be changed
from three months to one month, and the time of advertising the
sale of them as estrays, from two days to five days, and the
Justice of the Peace, before whom the estrays may have been tolled,
shall have power to advertise and order a sale thereof, at such
place and by such person as he may consider most to the interest

of the county. (0)

12. If any person or persons shall, within SIX months from the
time of such sale, prove to the satisfaction of the Board pf County
Commissioners, that the property so sold was l'llS or their own, or ‘
that of his or their employers, (as the case may be,) 111 that event the ,
said Board of County Commissioners shall, after deductlng. the fees
and charges hereinafter described, direct the money arising from
such sale to be paid to the claimant of said property. (p) _

13. If any person shall take up a boat, or other yessel adrift, he 1
shall in like manner make application to some Justice of the Peace
near to the place where such boat or vessel was taken up, for_h1s
warrant to have the same valued and described by her kind,
burthen, and build, and shall proceed in all other respects and shall
have the same benefits, as before directed in the case of estrays (q) 1

14. If, after notice published as aforesaid, any estrays shall hap- 
pen to die, or by any casualty get out of the possession of the person who took up the same, without his or her default, such taker
up shall not be answerable for the same, or the valuation thereof;
‘nor shall any taker up be answerable for any boat or other vessel
lost as aforesaid. (r)

15. It shall be lawful for any person to take up any unmarked '
neat cattle, sheep, hogs, or goats, going at large, over the age of I
one year, and cause the same to be viewed by a householder in the
district in which the estray shall be taken up, and advertise the same
for five days, and immediately thereafter, go with such householder
before the Justice of the Peace of the district, and make oath that he
does not know to whom the estray belongs, giving at the same time
a description of the animal taken up, and it shall be the duty of the
Justice of the Peace immediately upon receiving such description,
to advertise the same for five days in three of the most public places
in the district, and order the sale of the estray to the highest bidder for cash, at such place, and by such person, as he may consider
most to the interest of the county, paying over the proceeds of such
sale, after deducting a reasonable compensation for the taker up,
and the expenses arising from the sale, into the county treasury for
county purposes: Provided, nevertheless, that if any person shall
appear before the sale, and make satisfactory proof of his right
thereto to the Justice of the Peace, he shall deliver over the estray
claimed to the applicant, upon the payment of such cost as may
have accrued. (3)

.l6. The Justice of the Peace, for his services as above, shall receive from the taker up, at the time such estray or estrays shall be
brought before him, or description or valuation presented to him as
above, the sum of seventy-five cents, for each horse, mare, colt,
filley, ass, or mule, and the sum of six and a quarter cents for each
head of neat cattle, sheep, goats, or hogs. (t)

l_7. The taker up of such estrays shall, as a compensation for
maintaining and keeping the same, put them to immediate service,
if capable of service, and if incapable, or if he should prefer it,
receive from the owner, if claimed, or from the Board of County
Commissioners, if sold, a reasonable satisfaction, to be adjudged by
the clerk of the Circuit Court and one of the Board of Commissioners of the county, according to the circumstances of the case:
Provided, nevertheless, in case of putting such estray to labor, he
shall be bound to produce the same to the owner, if claimed, or to
the clerk of the Circuit Court, if sold, (casualties excepted,) in as
good condition as when appraised. (H)

18. Upon the delivery of any such estray to the legal owner, or,
in the case of sale, upon the sale thereof, the taker up shall receive
from the owner, or the clerk of the Circuit Court, as the case may
be, the sum of one dollar for each horse, mare, colt, iilley, ass, mule,
or ox, in addition to the sum by him paid to the Justice of the
Peace, and the sum of twelve and a half cents for each head of neat
cattle, sheep, goats, or hogs, in addition to the sum above mentioned for the keeping and maintaining the same. (29)

19. The clerks of the Circuit Courts shall, respectively, for the
receiving, entering, and publishing every certificate as above directed, receive the sum of six cents, to be paid by the owner claiming the property, or deducted from the monies arising from the
sale of such property ; and the further sum of five per centum upon
the balance of such money, as a compensation for selling or collectmg and paying. (20) _

20. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the Circuit Court, 111
each county in this State, to render to the presiding officers of their
respective Boards of County Commissioners annually, a true statement of all monies arising from the sales of estrays as aforesaid,
accompanied with the proper vouchers; and exhibit a correct statement, as aforesaid, to the grand jury of their respective counties,
at every fall term thereof, if required. (cm)

21. If any person or persons, taking up any estray as aforesaid,
and failing or neglecting to comply and fulfil the true intent and
meaning of this act, and being thereof duly convicted before the
presiding officer of the Board of the County Commissioners, shall,
for every such offense, forfeit and pay a sum equal to double the
value of such estray so neglected to be tolled and advertised as
aforesaid, to be recovered by suit or action at law, by any person
who may prosecute for the same, and half of the sum so recovered
to the use of the informer, the other half to the use of the county. (3/)

22.‘ If any Justice of the Peace, or clerk of the Circuit Court,
shall refuse or neglect to perform the duties required by this act,
such Justice of the Peace, or clerk of the Circuit Court, so neglecting or refusing, shall, for every such neglect or refusal,'forfe1t_the
sum of ten dollars, one moiety to be paid to the party informing,
and the other moiety to the use of the county where such offense
shall be committed, to be recovered by action of debt In -any Court
having jurisdiction of the same, and shall, moreover, be liable to an
action of damages to the party injured. (2)

23. The provisions of the act of February I2, 1833, shall not be:
held to extend to any Court in the southern district of Florida. (a_) ‘

24. When there is no County Treasurer, the clerk of the Crrcurtr
Court [Judge of Probate] shall be, and act as such treasurer or’
officer for all the purposes of this act. (la)

Sscr. 3. Of Stone Horses and Asses.

1. From and after the passage of this act, it shall not be lawful .
for any stone horse or ass to run at large within the State of Flori-‘i,
da; and if any stone horse or ass shall be found running at large,
it shall and may be lawful for any person to take up the same, and,
having taken him before the next Justice ‘of the Peace for the
county, by the permission of the said Justice, maygeld the said
stone horse or ass, taking care that the operation be performed by a
person usually doing such business, for which the person so gelding
shall receive five dollars, to be paid by the owner of the horse, to
be recovered by summary proceeding before a Justice of the Peace :
Provided, nevertheless, that if any person shall take up and geld‘
any such stone horse or ass, contrary to the true meaning and intent of this act, or without fully pursuing the aforementioned directions, he shall, for every such offense, forfeit to the party injured
double the value of such horse or ass; which value shall be ascertained by two respectable freeholders who were acquainted with
such horse or ass, and who shall act upon oath, to be recovered
before any Court of competent jurisdiction. (c)

2. Any person who shall take up any stone horse or ass, and may»
not choose to gold him, may take him before any Justice of the‘
Peace for the county, and shall cause the said horse or ass, with
his brands and marks, if he has any, and if not, with a description
of him, to be advertised in not less than three of the most public
places of the county; and the person taking up said horse or ass
shall recover from the owner thereof, before any Justice of the
Peace, the sum of five dollars, and all reasonable expenses of keeping such horse or ass: +Provided, that if such stone horse, or ass,
or gelding, shall not be claimed by any person within ten days,
the person taking up such stone horse, ass, or gelding, shall proceed as 1!] other cases of estrays provided for by this act; but in
no case shall he forfeit or lose the sum of five dollars, and all reasonable expenses allowed him by this act. ((1)

Sam‘. 4. In Relation to Rcjted Lumber adrift.

1. When any person or persons shall find any raft or rafts, of
sawed, hewed, or round lumber adrift, in any of the bays, rivers,
lakes, bayous, lagunes, or creeks of this State, it shall be the duty
of such person or persons to secure such raft or rafts in the place
or places where found, or in the nearest place of safety, and to
proceed as soon as possible thereafter to advertise the same at the
door of the court-house of the county where found, stating the
kind and probable quantity of lumber, the place or places where
found, and where deposited. (e)

2. If after the expiration of sixty days from the date of the advertising thereof, no person or persons shall have claimed and established their right of property to said lumber, to the satisfaction
of the Justice of the Peace, (to prove which right the person or
persons claiming as the owner or owners of said lumber, shall not
be required to produce, testimony upon oath, to the identity thereof,
but such circumstantial proof as the nature of the case admits,)
then it shall and may be lawful for such person or persons finding
the same, to take it to the nearest market and deliver it to some
acting Justice of the Peace, whose duty it shall be forthwith, to
sell the same to the best advantage; to pay to the finder or finders,
all necessary and reasonable expenses, to reserve to himself five per
cent. as compensation for his services, and to place the balance in
the hands of the clerk of the Circuit Court, whose receipt he shall
take. But if, before the expiration of the sixty days, the owner or
owners shall appear and establish their right to said lumber, such
owner or owners shall pay all expenses, and reasonable charges for
securing the same, to be determined in case of difference between
the parties, by an arbitrator appointed by each; but if after the
expiration of another term of sixty days, no right shall have yet
been established to said lumber, then the balance of said money
remaining in the hands of the clerk, shall be paid over, one half to
the person or persons claiming in consideration of the finding thereof, and the other half to the county treasurer, to be applied in common with other funds to county purposes. (f) _
L 3. If any person or persons finding any rail: or rafts of lumber
"adrift, as aforesaid, shall take the same to any market and sell it
without complying with the provisions of this act, or shall dispose
of it in the place or places where found, as his or their lumber,
such person or persons shall be deemed guilty of larceny and punished accordingly. (g)

4. The restrictions herein contained, shall not extend to lumber

' broken asunder from rafts and driven ashore on the coast. (It)

TITLE FOURTH.

OF COSTS AND FEES OF OFFICERS OF COURTS, ETC.

 

CHAPTER I.

OF COSTS  CIVIL CASES.

1. WHENEVER a_plainti{i' or complainant, who is a non-resident,

shall commence a suit in any of the Courts of this State, it shall be

the duty of himself, or his agent or attorney, previous to suing out
the original process, to file with the clerk of the Court in which
said suit is to be brought, bond with approved security, in the sum
of one hundred dollars, conditioned for the payment of all costs
and charges which may be adjudged against him in said suit; and,
upon a failure to file such bond and security as aforesaid, the attorney bringing or prosecuting said suit shall be liable for said costs
and charges, and if adjudged against said plaintifff, an execution
may issue against said attorney for the same. (p)

2. If any plaintifff or complainant after the institution of any suit,
should remove himself or his effects out of this State, it may be
lawful for the defendant, giving thirty days’ previous notice to the
opposite party or his attorney, to move to dismiss the suit for want
of security for cost: Provided, that the said plaintifff may enter
into bond for the payment of costs, and the case proceed as if it
had before been given. (q)

3. In all cases the party recovering the judgment shall recover
also all his legal costs and charges, and shall have execution for the
same: Provided, this section shall not be construed to relate to executors or administrators in cases wherein by law they are not liable to costs of suit. (1')

4. If either party in a suit shall pay any costs therein before
judgment, decree, or disposal of the case, such party shall have the
right, if he, she, or they recover judgment against the opposite
party, to have the amount so paid by him, her, or them taxed ‘and
included in his, her or their judgment: Provided, that each distinct
item of costs so paid, be particularly enumerated in the bill. (s)

5. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the several Courts to tax
the costs accruing to each case, when the same 1s determined, or
at the close of each term of the Court, if requrred, and to keep.a
duplicate of the bill of costs on file among the original papers 111'
the suit. (t) .

6. When a bill of costs shall be taxed by the clerk and approved of ;
by the Judge of the Court wherein the services have been rendered,
it shall have the force and effect of an execution, and shall be collected by the sheriff as in other cases of execution, and 1t shall not

be necessary to issue executions therefore. (u)

CHAPTER II .

OF THE TARIFF OR RATES OF FEES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.

SECT. 1. Of the Fees qf the Judges qf Probate.

1. THE Judges of Probate shall be entitled to charge, demand
and receive the following fees, viz : '

For granting and issuing letters of administration, executorship,
guardianship, or curatorship, three dollars.

Issuing warrant of appraisement under seal, fifty cents.

Issu-ing each and every citation or notice, under seal, fifty cents.

Granting each rule, fifty cents.

Writing and taking each affidavit of one hundred words or less,
twenty-five cents; if containing more than one hundred words, at
the rate of fifteen cents for every subsequent hundred words.

Administering each and every oath, ten cents.

Recording or copying any will, settlement, or other paper, or
order of Court, required or necessary to be recorded or copied, for
the first one hundred words, twenty cents; for every subsequent
hundred words after the first hundred, fifteen cents.

Writing and approving each and every bond, seventy—five cents.

Filing each paper relating to estates, five cents.

For every certificate, with seal of Court thereto, of one hundred
words or less, thirty cents; if more than one hundred words, at the
rate of ten cents for every subsequent hundred.

Every search of less than one year’s standing, ten cents.

Every search of more than one year’s standing, twenty cents.

1 Taking renunciation of dower, with certificate thereto, one dolar.

For entering every judgment or decree of one hundred words or

less, twenty cents; and for every subsequent one hundred words,
at the rate of ten cents per hundred words.

Examining and auditing annual settlements of administrators,
executors, or guardians, one fourth of one per cent. on the amount
thereof, debits and credits.

For drawing every other paper or writing not hereinbefore otherwise designated, of one hundred words or less, twenty cents, and

for every subsequent hundred words, at the rate of ten cents per
hundred words.

Any other service not herein specified, the same fee as is allowed
to clerks of Circuit Courts: Provided, that no fees shall be demanded for recording vouchers of administrators, guardians or other
persons. (in)

Snow. 2. Of the Fees of the Clerl: if the Supreme Court and
the Clerks of the Circuit Courts.

1. The clerk of the Supreme Court shall receive three dollars

per day for his attendance on the Supreme Court while in session,

to be paid out of the Treasury of the State. 

And also, shall receive for issuing writ of error, one dollar.

Writ of scirefacias ad audiendum errores, one dollar.

Filing and entering -returns of each of said writs, twenty-five
cents. '

Entering the appearance of defendant in error, twenty-live cents.

Filing and entering assignment of errors, twenty-live cents. And
the said clerk of the Supreme Court and the clerks of the Circuit
Courts shall also receive, for issuing writ of error, or scirefilcias ad
audiendum errares, one dollar.

Docketing each case on appearance or other docket, ten cents.

Transferring and re-docketing each case, after continuance, ten
cents.

Entering appearance of defendant in person or by attorney, ten
cents.

Issuing summons ad rewondendum, under seal of Court, fifty
cents.

Issuing snbptena at law, and entering return, twenty-live cents.

Docketing each subpoena in subpmna docket, when such docket
is kept, ten cents.

Writing and taking aiiidavit of one hundred words or less, twentylive cents; and for every subsequent one hundred words, at the rate

of fifteen cents. _
Drawing and approving each bond or recogmzance, seventy-live

cents.
Issuing commission to take testimony under seal of Court, seventy-tive cents. _ _

Issuing instructions to commissioners to accompany OOIIIHIISSIOD,
in each case, fifty cents.

Arraigning each prisoner in capital offenses, fifty cents.

For entering every plea, rule, order, judgment, sentence, or decree of Court, of one hundred words or less, twenty cents; and at

the rate of ten cents for every subsequent hundred words; and for
enrolling the same on minutes, the same rate.

Administering each and every oath, ten cents.

Calculating interest and assessing damages for judgment in each
suit, twenty-live cents. _

Docketing each and every judgment, in drocket of Judgments,
twenty-five cents. ,

Filing each and every paper in a suit or other ‘matter, five cents.

Swearing, and calling, and recording petit Jury in each Slllt,
fifty cents.

Recording verdict of jury in each suit, twenty cents.

Issuing writ of _fieri facias, or haberefacias passessionem, under
seal of Court with endorsements, taking sheriii"s receipts for same,
and entering return of same, one dollar.

Docketing each ji. far. in execution docket, and‘ numbering same,
twenty cents.

Every certilicate under seal of Court, of one hundred words or
less, thirty cents; if containing more than one hundred words, at
the rate of ten cents for every subsequent one hundred words.

Each search of less than one year’s standing, ten cents.

Each search of more than one year’s standing, twenty cents.

Taxing costs in each suit, twenty-live cents.

Recording or copying any instrument of writing containing one
hundred words or less, twenty cents ; if containing more than one
hundred words, at the rate of ten cents for every subsequent one
hundred words.

Issuing marriage license, recording and filing same, and recording and tiling return of Minister, Judge or Magistrate executing the
same, two dollars.

Issuing each subpoena in chancery, or writ of injunction, under
seal of Court, with requisite endorsements thereon, and entering
return of same, one dollar.

For every process at law or in chancery, under seal of Court, if
the same contains two hundred words or less, fifty cents; if containing more than two hundred words, at the rate of ten cents for
every subsequent one hundred words.

Drawing every other paper or writing, not hereinbefore otherwise
designated of one hundred wo.rds or less, twenty cents: if containing more than one hundred words, at the rate of ten cents for every
subsequent one hundred" words.

Receiving monies into registry of Court, and paying out same
by order, one per cent. on the first five hundred dollars, and half of
one per cent. on each subsequent one hundred dollars.

Entering each rule on rule docket, twenty-five cents.

Issuing license to hawkers and pedlars, one dollar. 

SECT. 3. Of the Face of Sherzfs.

1. They shall receive for levying writ of_fier£fac1Ias, attachment
or other process, each levy, one dollar.

For arresting each defendant or prisoner under capias, ca. sa.,
search or other warrant or writ, one dollar.

Executing kabere facias possessionem, one dollar.

Each service of writ in actions at law or chancery, or other process, fifty cents.

Record and return of every writ or process, ten cents. .

Each copy of any process containing one hundred words or less,
twenty cents; if containing more than one hundred words, at the
rate of ten cents for every subsequent one hundred words.

Writing, taking and approving each bond, seventy-live cents.

Calling jury in each suit, twenty-{ive cents.

Mileage, the distance to be estimated to and from the court-house
to the residence or abode of the person served with process, going
and returning, per mile, three cents.

For committing prisoner to jail under ca. sa., capias, mittimus,
or other process, one dollar.

Each re-commitment of prisoner, under order of Court, fifty
cents.

Releasing each prisoner, twenty-live cents.

Executing writ of habeas corpus, one dollar.

Conveying prisoner to jail after arrest, or removing prisoner, per
mile, ten cents.

Whipping a person under sentence of the Court, two dollars.

Conlining person in pillory, under sentence of Court, two dollars.

Branding prisoner, five dollars.

Nailing ears of prisoners to posts, under sentence of Court, three
dollars.

Hanging a prisoner under judgment and sentence of Court, ten
dollars.

Collecting money under execution, attachment, or other process,
where there is an actual sale; on the lirst three hundred dollars,
three per cent., and on all sums exceeding three hundred dollars,
and less than two thousand dollars, two per cent., and on balance of
all sums exceeding two thousand dollars, one per cent.; without
sale, on the first three hundred dollars, two per cent., and on all
sums exceeding three hundred dollars a11d less than two thousand
dollars, one per cent., and on balance of all sums exceeding two
thousand dollars, one half per cent.

Advertising property for sale according to law, under legal process, fifty cents.

For keeping each slave, taken under execution, attachment, or
other process, such slave to be allowed half a pound cooked meat per
day, and one pound of bread per day, or its equivalent, thirty cents.

For keeping horses, cattle, or other stock, taken under legal
process, such reasonable allowance as the Judge or J ust_1ce from
whose Court the process may have issued, may deem just and
proper. , _

And for actual and necessary expenses paid out or incurred in
the levy and safe keeping of personal property, or in the. arrest,
safe keeping and punishment of criminals, (as are not provided for

by law) such reasonable allowance as either of the Judges or the Justice from whose Court the process may have issued, shall deem just
and proper : Provided, however, that there shall not be allowed for
interpreters to the Courts, more than three dollars per day; for
bailiffs, more than one dollar per day each ; for servants to attend
on the Courts, more than seventy-five cents per day; for each person as a guard, more than one dollar and fifty cents per day ; for
horse hire, more than one dollar per day ; for boat and hand hire
per day, four dollars, for each day employed in actual service ; for
erecting gallows, more than ten dollars; for erecting pillory, more
than three dollars; and for all stationery, wood, and candles, furnished for the use of the Court, the Judges shall make a specific
requisition on the sheriffs for the amount to be furnished, which
shall be the sheriff ’s voucher therefore.

For executing deed for real estate (to be paid by purcl1aser,)
one dollar.

Executing bill of sale for personal property, to be paid by purchaser, one dollar.

Summoning grand and petit jurors, under cenircfacias, for each
term of the Court, (mileage included) twenty dollars.

Summoning each juror under special vemirefacias, or summoning talesman, or bystanders, by order of the Court, (mileage included) twenty-five cents.

For attendance upon Supreme Court, three dollars per day. 

Snow. 4. Of the Fees qf Masters in Chancery.

1. They shall receive for every summons to parties, with names _
of witnesses, fifty cents. 1

For every subpten a, twenty-five cents. ‘
Every oath administered, ten cents.

For marking and numbering each exhibit produced before him,
ten cents.

For attendance upon every case, if litigated, two dollars and iifty
cents; if not litigated, one dollar.

For attendance to settle report, if litigated, two dollars and fifty
cents.

For attendance to settle report, if ex parte, one dollar.
For drawing reports and schedules, upon a reference, per folio,
twenty cents.
For engrossing and returning same, per folio, fifteen cents.
For drawing and approving bond, one dollar.

For report upon a reference for the appointment of a guardian,
two dollars and fifty cents.

For drawing every order, notice or paper required, per folio,
twenty cents.

For copies of all papers furnished, for first folio, twenty cents;
for each subsequent folio, five cents.

For attending at time and place of sale, and adjourning same,
one dollar.

For drawing and executing every deed or bill of sale, five dollars.

For taking every recognizance, fifty cents.

For receiving and paying out all monies, except monies arising
from sales, three per cent. on the first live hundred dollars, and half
per cent. on every subsequent one hundred dollars.

For taking deposition of every witness, per folio, twenty-live
cents.

For all sales made by him, the same fees as are allowed to sheriffs.

For taking any account under an order of Court, or other services not herein provided, such compensation as the Court may deem

reasonable. (a)

Sscr. 5. Of the Fees qf the Justices qf the Peace.
1. They shall receive for each day's attendance while sitting as

' a Court to hear and determine proceedings under the act concerning forcible entry and detainer, per day each, two dollars.
Issuing each peace, search, or other warrant in criminal cases,

fifty cents.
Issuing each writ of attachment, summons, or execution, fifty

cents.

Issuing each subpoena, twenty-five cents.

Writing and taking affidavit of one hundred words or less,
twenty-five cents ; if containing more than one hundred words, at
the rate of iifteen cents for every subsequent one hundred words.

Writing, taking and approving each bond or recognizance,
seventy-live cents.

Swearing each jury, iifty cents.

Administering each and every oath, ten cents.

For entering every judgment in each suit, twenty-five cents.

Taking relinquishment of dovver, with certificate thereto, one
dollar.

Copy of any record or other paper containing one hundred words
or less, twenty cents; for every subsequent one hundred words, ten
cents.

Drawing every other paper or writing, not herein otherwise
designated, containing one hundred words or less, twenty-five
cents; if containing over one hundred words, at the rate of fifteen

cents for every subsequent one hundred words. ((2)

SECT. 6. Of the Fees of Constables.

1. They shall receive for service and return of summons, fifty

cents.
Levy and return of execution, writ of attachment or other legal

process, seventy-live cents.

Executing and return of peace, search, or other warrant in criminal cases, one dollar.

Summoning jury, mileage included, seventy-five cents.

Writing and approving each bond, seventy-live cents.

Collecting money under execution, or other process, the same
commissions as allowed to sheriffs. _ _

Mileage the same as allowed to sheriffs : Promded, the distance
be estimated to and from the residence of the person served with
process, to the place of holding Justice’s Court, except in cases
of arrest, where the number of miles actually travelled shall be
charged.

Copy of any process or other paper required to be copied, of
one hundred words or less, twenty cents; if over one hundred

words, at the. rate of ten cents for every subsequent one hundred
Words.

Writing and posting up advertisements of property to be sold,
iifty cents.

Service and return of every process not herein designated, fifty
cents.

Writing and executing deeds, one dollar.
Bills of sale, seventy-live cents.

For all other services not herein provided for, the same as allowed to sheriffs. (6)

Snow. '7. Of the Fees of Translators and other Special Ojicers.

1. Translators of Courts, elisors, and all special officers appointed
by the Court, shall receive for their services such compensation as

the Judge of the Court wherein the services have been rendered,
shall deem just and proper. (d) '

SECT. 8. Of the Fees of Notaries Public.

1. They shall receive for protesting bill of exchange or promissory note, and registering same, one dollar.

For noting bill of exchange for non-acceptance or non-payment,
iifty cents.

Administering each oath, ten cents.

Attending at a demand, tender, or deposit, and noting same, one
dollar.

Noting protest of a captain of vessel, one dollar, and five dollars
for extending protest and copy.

Registering foreign protested bill or protest, fifty cents.
Each certificate with seal thereto, one dollar.

Each order for survey, one dollar.

Copying any paper necessary to be copied, the same as allowed
clerks of Supreme Court and Circuit Courts. (3)

Snow. 9. Of the Fees of Coroners, County Surveyors, Jailors,
and Jail Physicians.

I. Coroners shall receive for summoning a jury and taking an
inquisition on a dead body, and making the necessary return thereof, to be paid by the estate of the deceased if the same be sufficient, if not, by the county, six dollars.

Any other service performed officially, the same fees as allowed
to sheriffs for similar services.

2. County surveyors shall receive such compensation for their
services as shall, from time to time, be established by the Board of
County Commissioners of their respective counties, to be paid by
the party requiring their services.

3. J ailors shall receive for imprisoning and releasing each prisoner, twenty-five cents.

For keeping and providing for prisoners, runaway slaves, or
slaves taken under execution or other legal process, per day each,
forty cents.

For ironing prisoner and taking off irons, fifty cents.

For medicines, medical service and attendance furnished to
prisoners, such amount as may be allowed by the County Commissioners of the proper county, provided such prisoner shall be acquitted and discharged, or shall be insolvent and unable to pay
the same.

4. Physicians shall receive for attendance upon prisoners in any
of the jails of this State, the sum of seventy-five cents per day for
their actual attendance, and the usual price for medicines as
charged by druggists in the county where such services are rendered. (f )
Snow. 10. Of the Fees of the Solicitors of the several Circuits.

I 1. They shall receive for every indictment, when the offense
charged is not capital, five dollars.

For every indictment when the offense charged is capital, fifteen
dollars.

For every civil action in behalf of the State, prosecuted to effect,
where the amount recovered exceeds one hundred dollars, such
reasonable allowance as the Judge before whom the case is tried,
shall deem just and proper; if the amount be less than one hundred
dollars, five dollars : Provided, that in no case of criminal prosecution shall any fee be allowed to any solicitor when the prosecution fails by reason of any defect in the indictment, or where a
mile prosegui is entered. (g)

2. The several solicitors of the State shall be entitled to the
fees in criminal cases now allowed them by law, to be collected in
the following manner, and not otherwise, that is to say: In all
criminal prosecutions, the solicitor’s fee shall be taxed in the l)lll

of costs and collected by the sheriffwith the other costs of ‘the case,
and be by him paid over to the solicitor: Provided, that in all Instances where said fee, or any part thereof, cannot be so collected,
and it shall so appear by the return of the sheriff, then the same

shall be a charge upon the Treasury of the State. (it)

Sscr. 11. Of the Fees of Witnesses.

1. They shall receive for each day’s attendance on the Circuit
Court, seventy-live cents.

For each day’s attendance on J ustice’s or other Court, fifty
cents.

For mileage to and from the place of holding Court to abode of
witnesses, four cents per mile.

For expense of writing out ticket and proof of same, ten cents.

And any witness when the cause in which he or she is attending
as a witness is continued, (except in cases in behalf of the State)
such witness shall have the right to make out and prove before the
clerk or Justice of the Peace, or other person issuing the subpoena,
his or her account for attendance, mileage, &c., and to demand of '
the party at whose instance he or she may have been summoned, '
the payment thereof; and if default be made in the payment of the
same, such witness shall not be considered in contempt of Court
for non-attendance thereafter as a witness in such case in behalf of
the same party: Provided, he or she shall make proof of such demand ; and every witness’s account made out and proven as aforesaid, and signed by the clerk, Justice or other person issuing the
subpoena, shall have the force and effect of an execution, and may
be levied by any constable of the county upon the goods and chattels of the party for whom the services were rendered, and collected in like manner as executions from a J ustice’s Court : Provided,
nevertheless,’ that any witness shall have the right, at his or her
option, to defer making out his or her account until the suit in
which he or she shall attend as a witness is determined, and have
the same taxed in the bills of costs in the suit. (i)

Seer. 12. Of Certain General Provisions.

1. The several fees herein provided for shall in all cases of suits I
be taxed in the bill of costs, and collected with the judgment and
other costs of the suit: Provided, that each distinct item of costs
shall be particularly enumerated in the bill of costs. (It)

2. No fee shall be charged in any case, or for any oiiicial service I
performed, or claimed to be performed by any officer of any name, ‘
character or description whatsoever within the State, unless said
fees be expressly authorized, and their amount be specified by law.

(1)

3. Whenever any sheriff or other officer in the State shall take
any slave or slaves by execution or attachment, it shall be his duty to
hire said slave or slaves to the highest bidder, at public outcry, within three days after such slave or slaves shall have been taken into
his custody, and the proceeds of such hire shall go to the extinguishment of the debt for which said property was taken ; and
said sheriff or other officer shall take bond and sufiicient security, to be approved by him, for the forthcoming of said slave or
slaves hired as aforesaid : Provided, nothing herein contained shall
interfere with the right of replevy given by law. (an)

4. Whenever an execution is collected in other funds than gold
and silver, the officer collecting the same shall receive his commissions in the currency or funds collected without discount. 

SECT. 13. Cases in which the State pays Costs and Expenses.

1. No officer shall have a right to demand from the State of
Florida, or from any county thereof, any other fees than such as
may accrue for services in the apprehension, safe keeping, prosecution or punishment of criminals, saving and excepting all such as
are provided for by this act. (0)

2. The Comptroller of Public Accounts shall be, and he is
hereby authorized to audit and pay all incidental expenses in
arresting, safe keeping, ironing, guarding and maintaining all
prisoners that have been, or shall be hereafter confined in this
State, to the officer, or other person who shall be at such expense:
Provided, that the Judge, or Justice of the Peace, before whom the
case of such criminal shall be cognizable, either to commit or to
try, shall certify that the expense incurred is just and right, and
that the service for which the same was charged was performed. (p)

3. The Comptroller of Public Accounts is hereby authorized
and empowered to audit and allow all such necessary and reasonable contingent expenses, of the Circuit Courts of this State, and
Supreme Court, as are not now provided for and authorized by the
laws now in force : Provided, the same shall be properly authenticated and approved by a Judge of the said Circuit Courts, or the
presiding Judge of the Supreme Court. (q)

4. In cases where no provision is made by the laws now in force
in this State, for the allowance of necessary contingent expenses
of the Circuit Courts and Supreme Court, for the due administration and execution of the laws, the Judges of the several Circuit
Courts, and the presiding Judge of the Supreme Court, may allow
and authorize the payment of a reasonable account for the same,
to be audited and allowed by the Comptroller of Public Accounts
of this State, such as stationery, wood, candles, and room rent,

where actually necessary, per diem of bailiffs and servants of the
Court, not to exceed three bailiffs, and one servant, to any one
Court; interpreters for the Court, bedding or blankets for pris--oners, and pay of guards, when actually necessary, expense of

transporting prisoners, for erecting gallows or pillory. (r)

5. In all such cases of allowance for contingent eiipenses of the
said Courts, the items charged shall be fully stated and described, and
the price or charges approved by the J udge, and properly authenticated: Provided, that no county in which there 1s a courthouse, shall be allowed to charge the State any rent for the same:
Provided, also, that nothing herein shall be so construed, as to
allow the payment of any jury in attendance on said Court. (5)

SECT. 14. Of the Civil Remedy for Extortion.

1. When any witness or oiiicer of a Court shall willfully and
knowingly charge or levy more than he or she is really entitled to,
such witness or officer shall forfeit and pay to the party injured
four times the amount so unjustly claimed, to be recovered on
motion, before the Court wherein the services were rendered. (it)

2. It shall be competent for any person or persons, feeling
aggrieved by any charge made for costs, by any such officer, to
have the correctness of the same determined by a Court and jury,
on giving five days’ previous notice to the officer making such
objectionable charge, stating in said notice, the time and place,
when and where the same shall be inquired into, and it shall be the
duty of the clerk of the Court before which such officer is notified
to appear, to enter such cause for trial on the day specified in the
notice aforesaid, and said cause shall be tried on that day or as
soon thereafter as practicable, reference being had to the state of
the business in which the Court may on that day be engaged: Provided, however, that either party shall be entitled to a continuance
of the trial thereof, from time to time, by showing sufficient cause
to the Court for such continuance. (u)

3. It shall be the duty of the Court to administer to the jury
empannelletl to try the legality of such charge, the following oath :

“You and each of you do solemnly swear, that you will truly
and faithfully examine whether in the matter of controversy between and ' said has been guilty of extortion, and
a true verdict render. So help you God.” (v)

4. The jury in returning their verdict, if they find for the plaintifff, whether in a civil or criminal action, shall also find the amount
which has been improperly collected, and thereupon, it shall be the

duty of the Court in which such trial is had, to enter up judgment,

TITLE FIFTH.

OF THE LIMITATION OF SUITS AND ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

OF THE GENERAL ACT OF LIMITATIONS.

Snow. 1. Of the Time within which Real and Personal Actions
shall be sued, Q"c.

1. ALL writs of formedon in descender, remainder, or reverter,
of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments whatsoever, hereafter to
be brought upon any title or cause heretofore accrued, or which may
hereafter fall or accrue, shall be sued out within twenty years next
after such title or cause of action accrued, and not afterward; and
no person or persons who now hath, or have, or hereafter may have
any right or title of entry into any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall make an entry but within twenty years next after
such right or title accrued, and such persons shall be barred from
any entry afterward. (a)

2. If any person or persons entitled to such writ or writs, or to
such right or title of entry as aforesaid, shall be or were under the
age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non campus mentis, imprisoned
or not within this State, at the time of such right or title accrued,
or coming to them, every such person, and his or her heirs, shall
and may, notwithstanding the said twenty years are or shall be
expired, bring and maintain his action, or make his entry, within
ten years next after such disabilities removed, or the death of the
person so disabled, and not afterward. (5)

3. In all writs of right and other actions possessory, any person
may maintain a writ of right upon the possession or seizin of his
ancestor or predecessor within fifty years; or any other possessory
action upon the possession or seizin of his or her ancestor or predecessor, within forty years next before the teste of writ; but no
person shall maintain a real action upon his own possession or
seizin, but within thirty years next before the teste of the writ. (c)

4. All actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, and all actions
of trespass, detinue, actions surtrover, and replevin for taking

away of goods and chattels; all actions of account and upon the
case, other than such accounts as concern the trade of merchandize between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants;
all actions of assumpsit or debt grounded upon any‘ leading or
contract without specialty; all actions of debt for arrearages of
rent; all actions of assault, menace, battery, wounding, and
imprisonment, or any of them, which shall be sued or brought,
shall be commenced and sued within the time and limitation
hereafter expressed, and not after, that is to say, the said actions
upon the case other than for slander, and the said actions for
account, and the said actions for trespass, debt, detinue, and
replevin for goods and chattels, and the said actions of trespass
guare clausum fregit, within five years next after the cause of such
action or suit, and not after, and the said actions of trespass,
assault, battery, wounding, imprisonment, or any of them, within
three years next after the cause of such actions or suits, and not
after; and the said actions upon the case for words, within one
year next after the words spoken, and not after. ((1)

5. All actions or suits founded upon any account for goods,
wares, or merchandize sold and delivered, or for any article
charged in any book account, shall be commenced and sued
within two years next after the arising of the cause of such action
or suit, or the delivery of such goods, wares, and merchandize,
and not after, except that in the case of the death of such creditors
or debtors before the expiration of the said term of two years, the
further time of two years from the death of such creditor or debtor
shall be allowed for the commencement of such actions or suit. (3)

6. To prevent impositions or deception herein, the respective

time or date of the delivery of the several articles charged in any
such account, or any receipt taken for the delivery of them, shall
be particularly specified ; and if any merchant or trader shall willfully post date any article or articles in such account, or the receipt
taken for the delivery of them, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the
amount of the article or articles so post dated, to be recovered with
costs by warrant, where the penalty does not exceed twenty dollars,
and by action of debt in any Court of record, where the penalty
shall exceed that sum. (f)
l 7. To prevent any doubt in the construction hereof, it is hereby
‘declared that the before-mentioned limitation of two years shall
take place and be computed from the respective dates or times of
delivery of the several articles entered or charged in any such
account; and that all such articles as shall have been of more than
two years’ standing, when the action or suit was commenced, shall
be disallowed and rejected, and verdict shall be given or judgment
rendered for no more than the amount of such articles as appear to
have been actually charged or delivered within two years next
before the commencement of the suit as aforesaid. (g)

8. If in any of the said actions or suits, judgment be given for
the plaintifff, and the same be afterward reversed by error, or a verdict pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter alleged in arrest of
judgment, the judgment be given against the plaintifff, that he take
nothing by his_plaint, writ, or bill, in all such cases the party
plaintifff, his heirs, executors, or administrators (as the case shall
require) may commence a new action or suit from time to time
within one year next after such judgment reversed, or such judgment given against the plaintifff, and not after. (h)

Snow. 2. What shall save the Operation of the Statute.

1. If any person or persons, that is or shall be entitled to any
such actions of trespass, detinue, actions sttrtrover, replevin, j
actions of account, actions of debt, actions of trespass for assault, ‘
menace, battery, wounding, or imprisonment be, or shall be at the
time of any such cause of action _given or accrued, fallen or come
within the age of twenty-one years, fame covert, non compos
mantis, imprisoned, beyond the seas, or out of the country, then
such person or persons shall be at liberty to bring the same actions,
so as they take the same within such times as are before limited,
after their coming to, or being of full age, discovert, of sane
memory, at large, and returned from beyond the seas, or from
without this country, as by other persons having no such impediment should be done. )

2. Whereas, doubts have been suggested as to the true intent»
and meaning of the use of the terms “ beyond seas or out of the ‘
country,” used in the several acts of limitations heretofore or now‘?
of force in this State. For remedy whereofBe it enacted, that the saving in the act of November the tenth,
one thousand eight hundred and twenty—eight, and all other acts of
limitation in favor of persons “ beyond the seas or out of the
country,” until such persons shall have returned from beyond the
seas, or from without the country, shall not be held, deemed or
taken to extend to persons who were not at the time of the making
of the contract, or accruing of the cause of action, domiciled or
resident within the limits of this State ; but all such persons shall
be put upon the same footing, and shall have no other or greater
rights than are possessed by residents and citizens of the State. (ht)

3. All suits hereafter brought in the name or names of any
person or persons, residing beyond the seas or out of this country,
for recovery of any debt due for goods actually sold and delivered
here, by his or their factor or factors, shall be commenced and
prosecuted within the time appointed and limited by this act for
bringing the like suits, and not after, notwithstanding the saving
hereinbefore contained to persons beyond the seas at the time of
their causes of action accrued : Provided, nevertheless, that if any

factor shall happen to die before the expiration of the time in which
suit should have been brought, such principal shall be allowed two
years from the death of such factor to commence and prosecute
his, her, or their action for any debt due to him, her, or them on
account of any contract or dealing with such factor. (J)

F 4. If any person or persons, defendant or defendants, to any of

;the aforesaid actions, shall abscond or conceal themselves, or by
removal out of the country, or the county where he or they do or
shall reside, when such cause of action accrued, or by other
indirect ways and means, defeat or obstruct any person or persons
who have title thereto, from bringing or maintaining all, or any of
the aforesaid actions within the respective times limited by this
act, that then and in such case, such defendant or defendants are
not to be admitted to plead this act in bar to any of the aforesaid
actions, any thing in this act in any wise to the contrary notwithstanding. (m)

SECT. 3. Of Suits against Ewecutors and Administrators.

1 l. If any suit be brought against any executor or administrator,
for other person having charge of the estate of a testator or an in.testate, for the recovery of debt due upon an open account, it shall
be the duty of the Court before whom such suit shall be brought,
to cause to be expunged from such account every item thereof,
which shall appear to have been due live years before the death of
the testator or intestate; saving to all persons, non compos mantis,
femes covert, infants, imprisoned, or out of this State, who may be
plaintifffs in such suits three years after their several disabilities
shall be removed; and if any person shall willfully post date any
such account, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of the
articles so post dated; to be recovered in any Court of Record,
where the penalty incurred shall exceed twenty dollars, and by
warrant before a. Justice of the Peace where the penalty incurred
shall not exceed that sum. (92)

2. No action of debt shall be brought against any executor or
administrator, or other person having charge of the estate of a testator or intestate, upon a judgment obtained against his testator or
intestate, nor shall any scire facias be issued against any executor
or administrator, or other person having charge of the estate as
aforesaid, to revive such judgment after the expiration of five years
from the qualification of his executor or administrator, or of such
other person having charge of the estate, and all such judgments
after the expiration of five years upon which no proceeding shall
have been had, shall be deemed to have been paid and discharged, saving to all persons non compos mantis, femes covert,
infants, imprisoned, or out of this State, who may have been entitled to the benefits of such judgments three years after these several

disabilities shall be removed. (0)

TITLE SIXTH.

OF APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR TO THE SUPREME
COURT.

CHAPTER I.

WHEN, AND IN WHAT CASES, APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR MAY BE
TAKEN AND SUED OUT.

SECT. 1. If a party, in either of the Circuit Courts of this State,
shall feel aggrieved by a final judgment, sentence, or decree, made
or pronounced by any or either of said Courts, it shall and may be
lawful for such party, during the session of the Court at which such
judgment, sentence, or decree is rendered or pronounced, or within
ten days thereafter, to obtain in Court, if the appeal he made in
term time, or in the clerk’s office, if it be in vacation, his, her, or
their appeal to the Supreme Court of this State; and an appeal obtained, shall, in all cases, operate as a supersedeas. (a)

SECT. 2. The party appealing, if plaintifff, shall give bond with
one or more securities in a sum sufficient to cover all the costs
which have accrued or may accrue; and if defendant, a bond with
one or more securities in a sum sufficient to cover the amount for
which judgment has been given, decree rendered, or sentence pronounced, together with costs, conditioned that the appellant shall
pay the costs if plaintifff, or if defendant, the debt, damages, or condemnation, and costs, in case the judgment, sentence, or decree of
the Circuit Court shall be contirmed by the said Supreme Court.
(5)

SECT. 3. If the said appeal he applied for in term time, the application shall be made in open Court, and it shall be so stated by
the clerk of the said Circuit Court upon the record, and the appeal
bond shall be approved of by the Judge; but if the appeal be applied for in vacation, the said appeal bond shall be approved of by
the clerk, and at least twenty—live days’ notice of such appeal shall
be given to the appellee before the first day of the term of said
Supreme Court, at which said appeal is to be tried. (:2)

SECT. 4. All writs of error shall be tested in the name of the

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, and shall issue on demand, as
a matter of right, from the office of the clerk of the said Supreme

Court, or from the clerk of the Court in which such judgment has

been rendered ; but no writ of error shall operate as a supersedeas,
unless by the special order of the said Court, or some Judge thereof,
made upon inspecting a copy of the record, and _upon the plaintifff
in error, by himself or a responsible person in his behalf entering
in the clerk’s office of either the Supreme Court or the Circuit
Court, into a bond in double the sum recovered in the Court below,
or double the amount of costs, if the plaintifff below be the plaintifff
in error, with one or more sufiicieiit securities, to be approved of
by the Judge or clerk of the said Court, conditioned for the due
prosecution of the suit in error, and in- case of the affirmance of the
judgment to pay the defendant in error his condemnation and costs.
When such order is made and security given as aforesaid, the clerk
shall endorse on such writ of error that it shall be a supersedeas;
and the said writ and endorsement shall be obeyed as such, suspending all further proceedings in relation to said judgment, in and
by the officers of the said Circuit Court. (d)

Sacr. 5. N o appeal or writ of error shall hereafter be granted to
the original plaintifff in any suit, unless said plaintifff shall first pay
all costs which may have accrued in and about said suit, up to the
time when said appeal or writ of error is prayed; and also enter
into bond with one or more securities, in a sum sufficient to cover
all the costs which may accrue in the prosecution of said appeal or
writ of error, conditioned to pay the same, if the judgment, sentence, or decree of the Court shall be affirmed. (e)

Sscr. 6. The clerk issuing the said writ of error shall issue to
the defendant in error a satire facias to hear errors, which shall be
made returnable with the said writ of error, and shall be served on
the defendant in error, or if said defendant be a non-resident, or be
not in the State, then upon his legally authorized agent, or his
attorney in the Court below, at least twenty—1ive days previous to
the first day of the term of the said Supreme Court. (f)

SECT. '7. In all cases wherein any final judgment, order, or decree may be pronounced, or rendered in any of the Courts of this
State, from which an appeal or writ of error lies to any other Court
of this State, if the party, defendant in appeal or error, be 3,
non-resident, that notice of such appeal or writ of error be served
upon the attorney or agent of said party, defendant, or notice of
said appeal or writ of error may be given by publishing the same
in such newspaper in this State, as may have the most general circulation, for thirty days, and the Court to which said appeal or writ
of error is had, upon satisfactory ..proof that such notice has been
given, shall proceed to hear and determine said cause as if personal
service upon the party had taken place. (g)

SEGT. 8. In all cases in which a rule of Court, or other summary
order, to any of the_officers of Court and their securities or deputies, is in effect a Judgment for the payment of money or other

, thing, the party aggrieved may prosecute his, her, or their appeal,

yvrlt of error, or certiorari, in the following manner, that is to say,
if the order has been made in the Court of a Justice of the Peace,
an appeal shall lie to the Circuit Court of the county in which the
order shall have been made, the trial upon such appeal being de
novo on the merits of the cause; and writs of error and certiorari
shall lie from said Circuit Courts to said Justices’ Courts, and ap.
peals and writs of error shall lie to the Supreme Court from the
Circuit Courts, as in other cases. (71)

Sscr. 9. In such cases as aforesaid, the said parties may proceed
as aforesaid to prosecute their said appeals, writs of error or certiorari, upon giving bond as aforesaid, and taking their appeal within
ten days after the adjournment of the Court; and their writs of
error and certiorari as in other cases provided for by law. 

CHAPTER II.

OF THE PROCEEDINGS UPON APPEAL AND WRIT OF ERROR; THE
JUDGMENT OF THE SUPREME COURT, AND THE EXECUTION OF THE
SAME; AND OF LIMITATION OF WRITS OF ERROR.

1. IT shall be the duty of the party appellant to demand
from the clerk a true copy of all proceedings in such cause in the
Circuit Court, and to lile said copy with the clerk of the Supreme
Court on or before the first day of the next succeeding term thereof, unless the said succeeding term shall commence within thirty
days after the obtaining of such appeal, and then the said appeal
shall be entered as soon after the lirst day of the next succeeding
term thereafter of said Supreme Court as will admit of twenty days’
notice thereof being given. If the party appellant fail to file the
proceedings as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said Court,
unless good cause be shown, to dismiss said appeal on the adverse
party producing a certificate from the clerk of the Court below
that an appeal has been obtained and a bond given as aforesaid;
and upon the receipt of the order dismissing such appeal, certified
by the clerk of the said Supreme Court, the clerk of the Court below shall proceed to issue execution, as well for the costs and damages which may have been adjudged by said Supreme Court, as

for the debt, damages or condemnation and costs for which the
judgment, sentence or decree was originally pronounced.  _

2. The plaintifff in error shall file in the Said Supreme Court, his
assignment of errors, within three days after the return of the writ.
If this be omitted, except for’ good cause shown, the said writ of
error shall on motion of the defendant in error be non prossed, unless the said Court shall allow further time. 

3. It shall be the duty of the Judges of the said Court, on an
appeal, or writ of error, to examine the record, to reverse or affirm
the judgment, sentence, or decree of the Court below, to award a
new trial in the Court below, or to give such judgment, sentence, or
decree as the Court below ought to have given, or as to them may
appear according to law. (0)

4. The said Supreme Court may order the record of the judgment, sentence, or decree appealed from, with their decision and
determination thereon, in writing, duly certified, to be remitted to
the said Circuit Court, and the said decision and determination
shall be carried into execution by the officers of the’ said Circuit
Court, or the said Supreme Court may award execution to carry
into effect its decision and determination. (p)

5. The sheriffs in the respective counties in this State, in serving
process and notices, shall have the same authenticity’ in the Supreme
Court as in their own Courts respectively ; and process of execution from the said Supreme Court shall be directed to the sheriff's
of the State, and executed by the sheriff of the county from which
the said case may have been brought, unless otherwise ordered by
the said Supreme Court. (q)

6. Whenever it shall appear to the Supreme Court, that an appeal has been taken merely for delay, the said Court may assess
damages, not exceeding ten per cent. for said frivolous appeal. (r)

7. All writs of error on judgments, in civil actions, shall be sued
out and taken within two years from the date of said judgments:
Provided, that when any infant, femme convert, or person non compos
mantis, shall be a party in any judgment in a civil action, two
years shall be allowed to such infant, forums’ convert, or person non
compos mantis, after the respective disabilities are removed, in which

to sue out his, her, or their writ of error on any judgment as aforesaid. (3)

TITLE SEVENTH.

OF PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.

CHAPTER I.

OF PROCESS, WHEN ISSUED, HOW SERVED, AND THE RETURN THEREOF.

SECT. 1. Of the Process of Subpcena, when issued, of the Service
thereof, and of Return Days, 6-6.

1. THE Circuit Courts shall always be open for the issuing and
return of process, making, hearing and deciding motions, presenting, arguing and deciding upon petitions, granting injunctions, and
passing interlocutory orders and decrees. (at)

2. The form of a subpoena to answer shall be as follows:

The State of Florida to Greeting.

You are hereby commanded and strictly enjoined, that laying all
other business aside, and notwithstanding any excuse, you personally be and appear before the Judge of our Court for
the County of (as the case may be,) on the
day of wherever the Court may then be, to answer to

a bill of complaint exhibited against you in our said Court by
and to do further, and receive what our said
Court shall have considered in that behalf; and this you are not to
omit under a penalty of five hundred dollars. Witness the Honorable Judge of said Court, the day of
in the year of
, A. B. (6)

3. The names of the defendant or defendants, however numerous, may be inserted in one subpoena, and the service thereof
may either be by a delivery of a copy thereof to such defendant,
showing the original at the time of such delivery, or to the wife of
such defendant, or any white person above the age of fifteen years,
residing in his or her family at the time of such delivery, at the
dwelling-house or usual place of abode of such defendant, and
such service shall be made before or on the day to which the process is made returnable ; the Court from which the subpoena

has issued, the title of the cause, and the words “ copy of subpoena,” together with the name of the p1a1nt1ff’s S0llG1tOI', shall be

inserted on the back of the copy of the subpoena, which may be ‘so
served, and when such service shall be made by the mlnlsterral
officer of the Court from which the subpoena issued, it shall be his
duty to note in writing on the original subpoena, the time at which
it came to his hands, and when served, the manner of the servlce
thereof, which note shall be subscribed with his name and office;
when service of process is made by any person other than the sworn
officer of the Court whence it issued, affidavit of the time and
manner of the service shall be made and returned in the origlnal
subpoena, and it shall be the duty of the ministerial or executive
officers of the several Courts of this State, to make return of _all
process placed in their hands, and of the proceedings thereon, immediate] y after the service or execution thereof. (c)

4. Suits in chancery against corporations shall commence by:
subpoena, and the service of such subpoena, of all interlocutory or—'
tiers and decrees against such corporations, shall be made in the
same manner, and under the same restrictions as is hereinbefore
provided for the service of a summons in a suit of law; and the
same proceedings to a final decree shall be had against such corporations as are had in other suits in chancery. (d)

5. The first day of every term, and the first Monday in every‘
month, shall be the days to which process shall be made returnable, ‘
and when the process is returnable out of term, and shall have
been served, the defendant or defendants shall cause his, her, or
their appearance to the subpoena to be entered in the office of the
clerk of the Court from which it is issued, on or before the first
Monday in the month next succeeding the month in which the
process was returnable, and when the process is returnable to a
term of the Court, and shall have been returned served, the defendant or defendants shall cause his, her or their appearance to be
entered on or before the first Monday of the month next after that in
which the process was returnable: Provided, three weeks shall
have elapsed from the return day thereof, and if not, then on the
first Monday of the following month. (6)

6. If process shall not be returned, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of the Court from which it issued to issue similar process, if
the same shall be required by the party at whose instance it originally issued. (f)

'7. Whenever it shall be made to appear by affidavit to any of
the Judges of the aforesaid Courts process has been issued against:
any defendant, and has been returned “ not executed,” and thatthe
said. defendant is within the Circuit of the State in which the Court
issuing the process is held, but that the said defendant cannot be
found, or will not suffer service of process to be made on him or

her, it shall and may be lawful for the said Judge, from whose
Court the process issued, to grant an order, requiring the said defendant to appear and answer the complainant’s bill within four
weeks; which order shall be published once a week, during the
said four weeks, in some newspaper prin-ted in the Circuit in which
the Court which grants the order is held; or if there be no newspaper publi-shed, then a copy of the said order shall be posted up at
the Court-house of the circuit or county in which it was granted,
for the above space of four weeks; and, at the expiration of two
months from the termination of the above four weeks, if the defendant shall not have appeared and answered the complainant’s bill,
the said complainant may enter, in the common rule book at the
clerk’s office, an order, that the complainant’s bill be taken pro
canfesso, having first obtained‘ the said order from the Judge, upon
proof of the publication or posting up, as aforesaid, of the order for

‘appearance and answer. (g)

8. Whenever it shall be made to appear by affidavit to the Judge
of the Court in which a bill shall have been filed, that any defendant therein resides out of the circuit of the State in which the bill
is filed, an order requiring such defendant to appear and answer,
otherwise the complainant’s bill shall be taken pro confesso, shall
be published in any- newspaper printed in the circuit of this State
in which the bill is filed, for the time herein prescribed ; that is to
say, if the defendant resides in this State, but not in the circuit in
which the bill is filed, for two months; if in any other part of the
United States, for four months ; if in any of the West India Islands,
for six months ; and if in Europe, for‘ nine months: which publication shall be made, when the defendant resides in the United
States, once a week ; and when he or she resides out of the UnitedStates, once a month during the periods above prescribed; if no
newspaper be published in the circuit in which the bill is filed,
publication of the aforesaid order shall be made in any other
newspaper published in the State adjoining the circuit in which the
bill shall be filed; in which last case, in addition to such publicak
tion, the said order to appear and answer shall be posted up’ at the
Court-house in which the Circuit Court for the said circuit holds
its session; and a copy of such order having been published in the
manner and for the time prescribed by law, and one month having
expired of the time thereby limited for appearance and answer by
the defendant, upon proof thereof by affidavit to the Judge of the
Court in which the bill is filed, an order, that the complainant’s
bill may be taken pro confesso, shall be granted, and entered in the
common rule book kept by the clerk; and the complainant may
either have the matter of the said bill decreed, or he may obtain a
commission or commissions for taking testimony, and have a decree upon his bill as confessed, and the testimony adduced by him,
in the same manner as if the cause were at issue. (It)

9. The return of process executed shall be sufficient whereon to

ground any subsequent proceedings.  _ _ _
10. No subpoena in chancery shall issue Ilfltll a bill of complaint

shall have been filed in the clerk’s office. 

SECT. 2. Of Writs of Injunction and ne Easeat.

1. No writ of injunction, or 723 esceat, shall be granted until a bill
be filed praying for such writ, except in the special cases, and for
the special causes in which such writs are authorized by the practice of the Courts of the United States, exercising equity jurisdiction, and no writ of injunction to stay proceedings at law shall
issue, except on motion to the Court or Judge, and reasonable I10tice of such motion previously served on the opposite party or his
attorney; and the defendant, after injunction granted, may either
before or after answer filed, on due notice being previously given to
the opposite party, or his solicitor, move the Court or the Judge
for the dissolution of any injunction which may have been granted.

an

(  A writ of ne exeat shall not be granted, but upon a bill filed ‘
and affidavit made to the truth of the allegations, which being pro-:
duced to the Court in term time, or to the Judge in vacation, he‘
may grant or refuse such writ as to him shall seem just, and if
granted, he shall endorse thereon in what penalty, bond and security shall be required of the defendant; and a writ of ne erreat
may issue in any case where the Court of Chancery shall have concurrent jurisdiction with a Court of common law, and he shall also
endorse the name of the securities, and in what sum bond shall
be required of the complainant, and no writ of ne ezeat shall issue
until such bond shall be given by the complainant in the clerk’s
office, from whence the writ is to issue; and in case any person
stayed by said writ of me great shall think himself or herself aggrieved, he or she may bring suit on such bond, and shall recover
the damages sustained by such writ of ma exeat. (n)

3. If the defendant shall go out of the State, and shall return before a personal appearance shall be necessary by any decree of '5'
the Court, or it shall be necessary to perform any order of the
Court, such his or her temporary departure shall not be considered
a breach of the condition of the bond. (0)

4. Whenever the defendant or defendants to the bill shall give I
security that he or they will not depart the State, the security, per- °'
sonally or by attorney, shall have power at any time (before the P
bond shall be forfeited) to take the body of his principal, and surrender him in open Court, or deliver him to the ministerial oiiicer
of the Court in which the suit is depending, who shall detain said

principal as in cases of the surrender of the principal by special
bail, and at the time of such delivery to the aforesaid officer, he
shall take his receipt for the body, and file it with the clerk of the
Court, either of which, if done before the bond is forfeited, shall
discharge the security from his undertaking. (p)

5. No injunction shall issue to stay proceedings at law after verdict or inquest of damages, unless the party applying therefore shall
have previously paid all the costs of the suit at law, and shall have
entered into a bond with two or more sufficient securities in double
the amount of the verdict at law, payable to the plaintifff in the
action at law, and conditioned to pay the said plaintifff the amount
of the verdict, inquest, or judgment at law, together with ten per
cent. on the same if the said injunction shall be dissolved, or the
bill upon which it may be granted shall be dismissed ; and no injunction to stay proceedings at law before verdict or inquest of damages shall issue, unless the party applying shall have previously
paid all the costs in the suit at law, and shall have entered into a.
bond in double the amount or value of the property with two good
and sufficient securities to the plaintifff in the action at law, and
conditioned to pay to the said plaintifff all damages, losses, expenses,
and charges which he really may have sustained or have been put
to by reason of the issuing of the said inj_unction, if the injunction
shall be dissolved or the bill on which it was granted shall be dismissed. (9)

6. The provisions of the 27th section of November, 7, 1828, to
regulate proceedings in chancery (supra, art. 5) shall be applied to
and govern in cases where there has been neither verdict nor inquest of damages. (r)

SECT. 3. Of Process of Attachment and other Proceedings against
Absent Defendants.

I

1. If any suit which hath been or shall be hereafter commenced
for relief in equity in any Court against any defendant or defendants who are residing out of this State, and others within the same,
having in their hands effects of, or being otherwise indebted to
such absent defendant or defendants, or against any such absent
defendant or defendants having lands or tenements within the State,
and the appearance of such absentees be not entered and security
given to the satisfaction of the Court for performing the decrees,
upon affidavit that such defendant or defendants are out of the
State, or that upon inquiry at his, her, or their usual place of
abode, he, she, or they could not be found, so as to be served with
process, in all such cases such Court may make any order, and require surety, if it shall appear necessary, to restrain the defendants
in this State from paying or conveying away, or secreting the debts

by them owing to, or the effects in their hands, of such absent defendant or defendants; and for that purpose may order such _debts
to be paid, and effects to be delivered up to the said plaintifff or
plaintifffs, upon their giving sufficient security for the return thereof, to such person and in such manner as the Court shall direct. _(t)

2. The Court shall also appoint some day in the succeeding
term for the absent defendant or defendants to enter his, _her, or
their appearance to the suit, and give security. for performing the
decree, a copy of which order shall by direction of the Court be
forthwith published in any newspaper within this State, the circulation of which shall in the opinion thereof be best calculated to
apprise the absent defendant or defendantsof the pending of such
suit, and continued for two months successively ; and another copy
thereof shall be posted at the front door of such Court-house. _ If
such absent defendant shall not appear, and give such security,
within the time limited, or such further time as the Court may allow, for good cause shown, the Court may proceed to take such
proof as the complainant shall offer; and if they shall thereupon
be satisfied of the justice of the demand, they may order the bill to
be taken as confessed, and make such order or decree thereon,
as shall appear just; and may enforce due performance and execution thereof, by such ways and means as have been heretofore
used for enforcing other decrees, requiring the complainant _or
complainants to give security, as the Court shall approve, for abiding such future orders as may be made for restoring the estate or
effects to the absent defendants, upon his, her, or their appearance
and answering the bill; and if the complainant or complainants
shall refuse to give, or not be able to procure such security, the
elfects shall remain, under the direction of the Court, in the hands
of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a time, and shall then be
iinally disposed of in such manner as to the Court shall seem
just. 

3. If any~person or persons who shall be out of the State at the
time a decree is pronounced as aforesaid, shall within seven years I
from the passing such decree, return and appear openly; or in case i
of his or her death, if his or her heir, executor or administrator}
shall, with the said seven years, be and appear openly within this
State, the plaintifff or plaintifffs, their executors or administrators,
shall serve such person or persons, so returning and appearing,
with a copy of the decree, within a reasonable time after such return or appearance shall be known to the plaintifff or plaintifffs;
and thereupon such defendant or defendants, or their representatives may, within twelve months after such service, ‘or those defendants not served with a copy, or their representatives, may
within seven years after the decree pronounced, appear in Court,
and petition to have the cause reheard ; and upon their paying
down, or giving security for the payment of such costs as the
Court shall think reasonable, they shall be admitted to answer the

t‘
I;

1.
»e

bill, and issue may be joined, and witnesses on both sides examined,
and such other proceedings, decree, and execution had, as may be
just and right in the cause; but if the several defendants, or their
representatives, upon whom the decree shall be so served, shall not
within twelve months after such service, and the other defendants,
or the representatives, upon whom no such service is made, shall
not within seven years from the time of the decree pronounced, appear and petition to have the cause reheard as aforesaid, and pay,
or secure to be paid, such costs as the Court shall think reasonable,
all and every decree to be made in pursuance of this act against
any defendant or defendants so failing, shall stand absolutely confirmed against him, her, or them; and at the end of such term,
the Court may make such further order for quieting the plaintifff or
plaintifffs in any such suits in their possession, and title to the estate
and effects so sequestered, or made liable, as to them shall seem
reasonable. (22) '

4. In all cases whatever, where a suit is or shall be depending
in any Court, concerning any matter or other thing whatever,
against any absent defendant or defendants, the Court may, on
satisfactory proof to them made, that such defendant or defendants
is, or are out of this State, or that upon inquiry at his, her or their
usual place of abode, he, she, or they could not be found, make
any similar order to that which is directed to be made in the case
of absent debtors, adapting the same to the nature of the case; a
copy of which order shall be published in like manner as is directed
in the case of absent debtors, and thereupon the proceedings in relation to such absent defendant shall be in all respects the same,
both before and after the decree, as are above prescribed in relation
to absent debtors, so far as such proceedings against absent debtors
shall be applicable to such absent defendants. (20)

CHAPTER II.

OF THE PLEADINGS, AND OF TAKING TESTIMONY.

Snow. 1. Of Amendment of Bill, Filing of Answer, Pleas, rim.

1. THE complainant may amend his bill at any time before
answer, plea, or demurrer filed of course, and without costs; but
if the defendant’s appearance be entered, and the defendant hath
procured a copy of the bill, the complainant shall furnish the den
fendant with a certified copy of the amendment gratis, but no

amendment in a matter of substance shall be allowed as of course
to any bill which has been sworn to. (as) _

2. It shall be the duty of the defendant, unless the time shall be‘
otherwise enlarged, for cause shown by a Judge of the Court, upon‘
motion for that purpose, to file his plea, demurrer or answer to the 1
bill in the clerk’s office, on the rule day next succeeding that of
entering his appearance; in default thereof, the plamtifr" may at
his election enter an order (as of course) in the order book, that
the bill be taken pro confkssa; and thereupon, the cause shall
be proceeded in ex parts, and the matter of the bill may be decreed
by the Court at the next ensuing term thereof accordingly, if the
same can be done without an answer and is proper to be decreed;
or the plaintifff, if he requires any discovery or answer to enable
him to obtain a proper decree, shall be entitled to the process of
attachment against the defendant to compel an answer, and the defendant shall not, when arrested upon such process, be discharged
therefrom, unless upon tiling his answer, or otherwise complying
with such order as the Court, or a J-udge thereof, may direct as to
pleading to, or fully answering the bill within a period to be fixed
by the Court or Judge, and undertaking to speed the cause. When
the bill is taken pro canfesso, the Court may proceed to a decree
at the next ensuing term thereof, and such a decree rendered shall
be absolute, unless the Court shall, at the same term, set aside the
same or enlarge the time for tiling the answer for cause shown upon motion and affidavit of the defendant, and no such motion shall
be granted unless upon the payment of costs of the plaintifff in the
suit up to that time, or such part thereof as the Court shall deem
reasonable, and unless the defendant shall undertake to file his
answer within such time as the Court shall direct, and submit to
such other terms as the Court shall direct for the purpose of speeding the cause. (y) !

3. Every defendant may swear to his or her answer before any
Judge or Justice of the United States, or Judge or Justice of any
Court of any of the United States, or Territories of the United
States; or of any Justice of the Peace or Notary Public of any of
the said States or Territories, or of this State. (2)

4. If any person who may be a resident of a foreign country beyond the jurisdiction of the United States, shall make oath to any
bill, petition or answer in Chancery before some authorized notary
public, who shall certify the same and affix his seal of office thereto, and obtain the certificate and seal of the consul or commercial
agent of the United States, or such person as may be exercising
the powers either of consul or commercial agent at said place, that
the person signing himself as notary public has been duly appointed,
and that full faith and credit are to be given to all his official acts,
the said blll, petition, or answer in Chancery shall be used in any
Court of law or equity in the same manner as if the same had been

sworn to before some proper officer within the limits of this State. (a)

5. _If an answer shall be considered insufficient, the complainant’s
solicitor may file exceptions thereto at any time within three weeks
from the notice of the filing thereof in the clerk’s oihce, and enter

'a rule with the clerk, that the defendant make a better answer
within six weeks, notice of which rule, and of the filing the exception, shall be served upon the defendant or his solicitor ; and if the
defendant shall insist on the sufficiency of his answer, the complainant may set down his exceptions for argument at the next
term ; and if they are sustained, no further or other answer shall
be received but on payment of costs ; and if a second answer put
in be adjudged insufficient, the defendant shall pay double costs;
and the defendant may also, in such case, be examined on interrogatories, and committed till he or she sufiiciently answer them; or
the plaintifff may move the Court to take so much of the bill‘ as is
not answered for confessed, and may file his replication, obtain
commissions for testimony, and proceed to hearing in the usual
manner. (6)

6. The complainants shall put in the general replication, or file
exceptions to the defendant’s answer, and give notice thereof to him
or his solicitor, and no special replication to an answer shall be
filed but by leave of the Court or Judge thereof for cause shown. (6)

j 7. The defendant may, at any time before the bill is taken for
confessed, or afterward, with the leave of the Court, demur or plead
to the whole bill, or part of it ; or he may demur to part, plead to part,
and answer the residue thereof, in such manner as is authorized by
the practice of the High Court of Chancery in England, and by
the rules of practice for Courts of Equity of the United States,
under the authority of the act of Congress of May 8, 1799. (p)

8. If a plea or demurrer has been overruled, no other plea or
demurrer shall thereafter be received, but the defendant shall
answer the plaintifff’s bill; and if he fail to do so within one calendar month thereafter, the same, or so much thereof as was covered
by the plea or demurrer, may be taken for confessed, and the matter
thereof be decreed accordingly. (g)

t 9. The plaintifff may set down a demurrer or plea to be argued,

for he may take issue upon the plea; if upon an issue the facts
stated in the plea be determined for the defendant, they shall avail
him as far as in law and equity they ought to avail him; if a plaintifff shall not reply to, or set for hearing any plea or demurrer, and
give notice thereof to the defendant, or his solicitor, one calendar
month before the second term of the Court after filing the same,
the bill may be dismissed with costs; and the defendant may, in
all cases, instead of filing a formal plea or demurrer, insist on any
special matter in his answer, and have the same benefit thereof as
if he had pleaded the same matter or had demurred to the
hill. (1')

10. Rules to plead, answer, reply or setting the cause for hearing, shall be entered in the Chancery order_ book, and notice of the
filing of every answer, plea, demurrer, replication _or other paper,
shall be served upon the opposite party or his solicitor, if residing
within twenty miles of the Court-house in the proper county, or_if
residing at a greater distance by addressing said notice ‘by mail,
proof of which shall be required by affidavit or the certificate of
the post-master in the place where the same shall be mailed. (.9)

11. The rules of practice in the Courts of Equity of the United
States, as prescribed by the Supreme Court thereof under the act of
Congress of the 8th of May, one thousand seven hundred and ninetytwo, where provision is not made by this act, shall.be rules for the
practice of the Courts of this State when exercising equity _]l1I'lSdiction ; and when the rules of practice so directed by the Supreme
Court, and the provisions of this act do not apply, the practice of
the Courts shall be regulated by the practice of the high Court of
Chancery in England (t)

SECT 2. Of Testimony, Sulipcenafor Witnesses, Commissions,

(3-0.

1. In all cases in chancery, the testimony shall be taken in writing
on interrogatories out of Court, except testimony to prove the execution of any instrument of writing, which testimony may be taken
orally in Court, or by deposition out of Court on interrogatories;
that the testimony of witnesses who reside in this State shall be
taken as aforesaid, by deposition on interrogatories before any
Judge or Justice of the Peace in this State ; and in all cases the
party desiring to take testimony by interrogatories shall pursue the
same course as is_ pointed out for taking testimony by interrogatories in the Courts of law of this State. (33)

2. After any bill, and before the defendant has answered, on
oath made, that any of the complainant’s witnesses are aged, infirm,
or are going out of the jurisdiction of the Court, or that any of them
is a single witness to a material fact, the clerk of the Court in which
the bill is filed may issue a commission to any Justice of the Peace
of the State, for taking the examination of such witness or witnesses
do bane esse, the party desiring such commission giving reasonable notice to the adverse party of the time and place of taking such
examination, if such adverse party or parties shall be known to the
complainant; and the examination taken as aforesaid shall be certified by the oiiicer who shall have taken it, and be returned sealed
up to the office of the clerk who issued the commission. (y)

3. For the purpose of compelling the attendance of witnesses

who reside within the State, a subpoena shall issue under the seal J

of the Court, with a blank for the names of the witnesses, to be

filled up byhthe party procuring the same, as occasion may require,
requiring t e witnesses to attend before the Justice or commissioners at such time and place as the said Justice or commisioners shall
appoint, for the purpose of giving evidence in the cause therein
described; and a memorandum in writing, subscribed by the said
Justice or commissioners, or one of them, designating the time and
place where the said commissioner or Justice shall attend or meet
for that purpose, being_left with the witness at the ti-me the subpoena shall be served on him, shall_be sufficient to compel the attendance of such witness at the time and place designated, in like
manner as if the said time and place had been designated in the
said] Slll)p)(BI1-3, or to incur a contempt if he does not attend according y. (z

4. Commissions may issue, in term time or vacation, to take testimony of witnesses residing out of the State by any two or more
persons named in the commissions by order of the Court, or the
Judge thereof, in vacation : _Prom'ded, that not more than four
persons shall be named therein, two of whom may be named by
the complainar.it,.and two by the defendant ; all the testimony taken
under a commission to be executed out of the State, shall be taken
on interrogatories and cross interrogatories, liled in the clerk's
office, and a copy thereof served upon the solicitor of the opposite
party, if there be one employed, if not, upon. the party himself;
and the party upon whom, or upon whose solicitor, a copy of the
said interrogatories shall be served, shall have ten days from such
service in which to file cross interrogatories ; and if cross interrogatories be not filed within ten days, the commission may issue for
taking the testimony upon the direct _interr_ogatories; the copy of
the'(,i1nterrogat((i)ries shall l)e.?(.‘..(.'.0[lI)1pa.l1’{lled withfnc})]tice_of the naiiie,
resi ence, an occupation, i it e nown o t e witness or witnesses to be examined, and also of the name: residence, and occupat1odi:i,t iftg. bg knpwn, pfdthe person or persons who {are to be fpr}ppose o e our or ii ges as commissioners on t e part 0 t a
party for whom the testimony is to be taken; and when the opposite party files his or her cross interrogatories, they shall be accompanied with the names, residence, and occupations of the persons
to be proposed by him or her as commissioners ; all testimony taken
viva vase, in open Court, shall be taken down in writing at the

time by the clerk. (a)

5. The Judges of the said Courts shall, in all cases in which a
commission for the taking of testimony out of the State shall be

.applied for, have power on the application of the solicitor of the

opposite party, to grant a greater time than ten days in which to file
cross interrogatories, on good and sufficient cause shown to the said
Judges on oath by the said solicitor. (b)

6. When a. cause in chancery is at issue, or when by the rules
of practice, the parties, or either of them, may proceed to take testimony; the testimony may be taken orally in open Court, or before
the Judge thereof, in vacation, upon motion of either party, on
order duly made for that purpose; or the Court may in its discretion appoint an examiner to take the testimony, who may take the
same orally, or upon written interrogatories and cross interrogatories, in such manner as is, or may be prescribed by the rules of
practice in said Court. (c) I

'7. Hereafter, testimony in suits in Chancery now pending orhereafter to be commenced in the several Courts of this State, may 
be taken in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations as are now or hereafter may be prescribed for taking testimony in suits at law : Provided, that no party to a suit in Chancery shall be allowed (unless by consent of parties) to introduce a
witness or witnesses for the purpose of taking his, her, or their
testimony orally in open Court, unless notice in writing of the
intention to introduce such witness or witnesses shall have been
given to the opposite party or parties, or his, her or their attorney or
attorneys, at least ten days previous to the first day of the term of
said Court at which it is proposed to introduce such witness or witnesses. (d)

CHAPTER III.

OF DEGREES, PETITIONS FOR REHEARING, APPEALS, ETC.

SECT. 1. Of Decrees.

I. EVERY Iinal decree shall be made up and engrossed by the]:
clerk of the Court, and be signed by the Judge of the Court in h
which_1t was pronounced, at any time upon request of the partye
plaintifff or his solicitor after the expiration of thirty days from the
time of pronouncing the decree, unless it shall have been appealed
from, or a petition for a rehearing shall have been presentedwithin
the said thirty days; and no process shall be issued, or other proceedings had on any final decree or order until the same shallhave
been engrossed and signed as aforesaid, and filed in the clerk’s
oliice. (g)

2. Every final decree shall be made and pronounced in openli
Court. (h)

3. A decree for money shall be a lien upon the lands and tene- L
ments of the party against whom it is entered, to the same extent,
and under the same limitations as a judgment at law, and every such
decree shall be docketed in the same manner as judgments at law. (23)

4. If any judgment at law, or decree in Chancery, shall be rendered against any corporation, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff in
the suit to sue out either a distningas, orfacias or elegit, as he
may think proper; and the said writs of fieri facias and elegit may
be levied as well on the current money as on the goods and chattels of said corporation. (It)

Sscr. 2. Of Petitions for a Re-hearing.

l. A petition for a re-hearing regularly presented within thirty
days from the time of pronouncing the decree, shall prevent the
issuing of process until the prayer of the said petition shall
be determined on, and such petition shall be determined on
at the term of the Court in which the decree was pronounced,
if it can be done, if not, within thirty days from the time at
which the petition was presented; every petition for a re-hearing
shall contain the special matter or cause on which such re-hearing
is applied for, and the facts therein stated, if not appearing on the
face of the proceedings, shall be verified by the oath of the party
or some other credible person; after a re-hearing shall have been
granted, no further or other proceedings shall be had or taken on
the decree pronounced on the original hearing of the cause. (I)

2. A petition for re-hearing presented within thirty days from
the time of pronouncing the decree, shall stay all proceedings
thereon, but the same shall not operate as a stay for alonger period
than thirty days, unless bond be given with good and sufiicient security, as in cases of appeal, conditioned for the payment of all
damages and costs which may accrue by such delay, the penalty of
which shall be fixed by the Judge of the said Court, to whom said
petition for re-hearing may be presented. 

SECT. 3. Of Appeals, <3-c.

1. Every final decree shall be made and pronounced in open

iCourt, and the plaintifff or defendant may appeal from the said decree at any time within two years: Provided, however, that the
same shall not operate as a supersedeas unless the said appeal be
taken within the time fixed by law in other cases, or if not taken
within that time, upon an order of one of the Judges of the Supreme
Court, directing the said appeal to operate as a supersedeas, in
which event bond and security shall be given as provided for by
law. (0)

2. N o appeal from any order, judgment or decree of any Court

‘of Chancery, Probate, or other Court in this State, appointing or

removing executors, administrators, or other personal representative,
or ailirming such order, judgment, or decree, shall operate as a
supersedeas, or have the effect of placing or keeping the estate of

any deceased person in the possession of the party appealing, unless
such party enter into bond. with sufficient security to be approved
by the Judge of the Court, payable to the Governor of the State,

for the benefit of all concerned, in a sum at least equal to the value
of such estate, conditioned for the payment of all costs and damages
that may accrue to all persons whatever, by reason of such appeal,
if the same should not be prosecuted with success. (p)

3. The thirtieth section of the act to regulate proceedings in

chancery, approved seventh March, eighteen hundred and twentyeight, (1828,) shall not apply to executors or administrators, so as
to require them to give security in cases of appeal. (q)

CHAPTER IV.

OF MASTERS IN CI-IANCERY.

SECT. 1. Of the Appointment, Qualification, Powers and Duties.

1. THE Judges of the Circuit Courts, in their respective circuits,

may appoint as many Masters in Chancery, as such Judges may find‘

necessary, who shall receive the appointment in writing from the
Judge making the same, which shall be recorded on the minutes
of the Court, and shall continue in office until removed by the
Court. (a)

2. Every person appointed Master in Chancery, shall take the
oaths required of officers by the Constitution and: laws of this State,
before he shall proceed to discharge any of the duties of his said
office ; and such oaths shall be en-tered at full length on the order
book of the Court, by which such Master is appointed. (6)

3. Every such Master in Chancery, shall perform, under the
direction of the Court, all the duties which, according to the practice in Chancery, appertain to- the office. (c)

4. Such Master in Chancery shall have power to administer all
oaths and affirmations which are required by law, and to take and

certify affidavits and depositions, to issue subpoenas for witnesses,
whose testimony is to be taken before him, and shall have the
same power to compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish

for contempts, as is given to Justices of the Peace. ((1)

5. All subpoenas and process necessary to the exercise of the

‘duties of the office of a Master in Chancery, shall be executed and

returned by the sheriff or any constable of the county, to whom the
same may be directed. (e)

6. Said Master in Chancery for administering oaths, issuing process, and taking affidavits and depositions, and such like services,
shall be allowed the same fees as other officers for similar services;
and where no specific fees are specified, the Court shall make such
allowance for the service performed, as shall be just and reasonable;
and all such costs shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case
in which they may have accrued. (f )

7. The Court may require Masters in Chancery, when appointed, to dispose of property, real and personal, and when appointed
as receivers, and when the same is not otherwise provided by law,
to give bond and surety, in such manner, and with such penalty,
for the payment over of all monies which may come to their hands,
and for the due performance of their duties, as the Court may
direct. (g)

8. Such bonds shall be made payable to the State of Florida, and
shall be for the benefit of all persons affected or aggrieved by any
act or ma]-conduct of the person required to give such bond ; and
suits may be maintained, and judgment given therein, as in the
case of bonds of officers or trustees who are required by law to give

bond.(h)

SECT. 2. Of Proceedings before the Master, his Report, :96.

1. Whenever a reference of any matter is made to a Master in
Chancery, to examine and report thereon, the party at whose instance, or for whose benefit the reference is made, shall cause such
matter to be presented to the Master for a hearing, within the time
limited by the Court for such hearing; and if such party shall omit
so to do, the adverse party shall be at liberty forthwith to cause
proceedings to be had before the Master at the costs of the party

procuring the reference. 
2. Upon every such reference, it shall be the duty of the Master

as soon as be reasonably can, after the same is brought before him,

to assign a time and place for proceeding therein, and to give due
notice thereof to each of the parties, or their counsel; and if either
party shall fail to appear at the time and place appointed, the Master shall be at liberty to proceed ex parts, or in his discretion, to

adjourn the examination and proceedings to a future day, giving
notice to the absent party or his counsel, of such adjournment. (It)

3. It shall be the duty of the Master to proceed with all reasonable diligence, in every such reference, and with the least practicable delay; and either party shall be at llberty to apply to the

Court for an order to the Master to speed the proceedings, and to
make his report, and to certify to the Court the reasons for any
delay. (2) _ _

4. The Master shall regulate all the proceedings 1n every hear-I
ing, when not otherwise specially instructed by the Court, and administer all oaths and affirmations, and generally to do all other
acts, and direct all other inquiries and proceedings, in the matters
before him, which may be necessary and proper, to the justice and
merits of the case, and the rights of the parties. (m) _

5. All affidavits, depositions, and documents, which have been;
previously made, read, or used in the Court, upon any proceedings‘
in any cause or matter, or when so directed by the Court, may be
used before the Master. 

6. The evidence, upon all examinations, shall be taken down in
writing by the Master, or by some other person by his order, in his
presence, and be liled with his report. (0)

7. In the reports made by the Master to the Court, no part of ‘
any state of facts, charges, the deposition, affidavit, examination, or
answer, already on file in the cause used before him, shall be stated
or recited ; but such state of facts, charge, atiidavit, deposition, examination, or answer shall be identified, specilied, and referred to,
so as to inform the Court whichstate of facts, charge, aiiidavit,
deposition, examination, or answer were used by the Master. (p)

8. The Master, as soon as his report is ready, shall return the’same into the clerk’s office, and such report shall be filed by the
clerk, and the return thereof noted‘ on the order book of the Court. (q)

9. The fees of witnesses before the Master, and for issuing process for their attendance, shall be the same as allowed in cases in U
the Circuit Courts, and for all matters an-d services done by the
Master, or which shall accrue out of Court, on account of such
reference, and for which no fee is fixed bylaw, the Court shall
allow a reasonable compensation, and all such fees and costs shall
constitute a part of, and be taxed with, the costs of such cause. (r)

10. The Masters in Chancery, within their respective counties, C
shall have all the powers conferred on Masters in Chancery, by the
rules of practice prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United

States, for the Chancery Courts of the United States, now in
force 111 this State. (3)

TITLE EIGHTH.

OF PROCEEDINGS BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE JURISDICTION OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, THEIR POWER
AND DUTIES, OATH OF OFFICE, ETC.

SECT. 1.. Of the Jurisdiction in Civil Cases, 

1. THE district lines and boundaries which may have been regularly laid out and defined, or which may hereaiter be laid out in
any county, in conformity to the laws of this State, shall form and
compose a J ustice’s district. (3)

2. It shall be the duty of the Board of County Commissioners,
in each and every county of this State to describe particularly on
the records of their respective Boards immediately, the boundary
lines of every district so laid off by the aforesaid Boards, as well as
all alterations that may hereafter take place, and post a copy of the
same at the door of their respective Court-houses within five days
after each division or altefation shall have been made. (t)

3. It shall not be lawful for any Justice of the Peace to issue a

summons against a person residing out of his district, and’ if the

same be done, the suit shall be dismissed at any stage of the proceedings: Provided, however, that where there is more than one
defendant to a suit, or where a Justice of the Peace is a party, the
suit may be brought against the party residing in the district, and
any process may be served on any other party in the county; and
that Justices may be sued in their adjoining districts, when there
is no other in their district: And provided also, that there be a
Justice in the district in which the defendant resides: And provided also, that where there is no Justice residing in a district, suit
may be brought in the next adjoining district. (It)

4. The Justices of the Peace of this State shall have and exercise, within the limits of their respective districts, exclusive original
jurisdiction in suits for the collection of all debts, dues, and demands, where the principal of the amount sued for does not exceed

the sum of fifty dollars, allowing interest and cost, to any amounts
due, whether the same be liquidated, or standing in open account;
but no Justice of the Peace shall entertain jurisdiction in any action for slander, or assault and battery, false imprisonment, or for

trespass on lands. (v)

SECT. 2. Of their Oath of Ojice, Powers and Duties in Criminal
Cases, and of their Duties in going out of Ojice as to Papers, 4-c.

1. Each and eyery Justice of the Peace, who may be appointed,
shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe an oath or affirmation before some other Justice of the Peace,
or some Judge of the Circuit Court, “ to support the Constitution
of the United States, and to administer the laws to the best of his
knowledge, skill, and ability, without favor, partiality, or prejudice ; ” and such other oath as may be required of all officers, civil
and military, by the laws of this State, which shall be filed in the
clerk’s oliice of the Circuit Court of the county for which he is
appointed. 

2. When any Justice of the Peace shall be appointed, and there:
shall be no Judge or Justice of the Peace convenient, before whom‘
he can take the oath or affirmation prescribed by law, it shall be
lawful for such Justice of the Peace to take the oath or ailirination
before any person named by the Governor. (z)

3. The said Justices shall be conservators of the peace through-]
out the counties for which they may be appointed respectively, and:
may issue warrants against persons violating the criminal laws of the
State, and commit the offenders to jail, or recognize them to appear before the Circuit Court of the county, at the next ensuing
term thereof, to answer to any indictment which may be preferred
against them, or discharge them from custody, according to the
circumstances of the case, and may require surety of the peace
when the same has been violated or threatened. (31)

4. The said Justices, respectively, shall have power to fine and
imprison for contempts offered them while acting in their judicial
capacity: Provided, that the line shall in no case exceed the sum
of live dollars, nor the imprisonment four hours. (z)

5. Hereafter, whenever any Justice of the Peace shall retire or
be removed from office, it shall his duty to turn over to his succes-‘
sor all the dockets and papers relating to his office, and it shall be:
the duty of the succeeding Justice to close the unfinished business
commenced by his predecessor; and if any Justice of the Peace
shall fail to turn over his dockets and papers as aforesaid, he shall
be liable to an action at the instance of any person injured thereby; and if there be no Justice of the Peace appointed for the district from which the said Justice retires or is removed from office,
it shall be his duty to turn them over to some Justice of the Peace
in an adjoining district, who shall act upon the same until there
shall be an appointment made for the district left vacant by such
resignation or removal; and when any Justice of the Peace shall
die, it shall be the duty of his executor or administrator to turn
over all the papers and dockets of his office as aforesaid. (a)

r 6. In all cases in which Justices of the Peace, constables, or tax
collectors shall receive money by virtue of their offices, and shall
not pay over the same to the persons entitled thereto upon demand,
they shall pay to the persons entitled to receive the same, the
principal and interest received, with twenty-live per cent. damages,
which may be recovered by rule before the Court, and the party
held in custody, as for contempt, until the principal, interest, damages and costs are paid. (b) '

CHAPTER II.

OF THE INSTITUTION OF SUITS, SERVICE OF SUMMONS, TERMS OF
COURT AND JUROBS.

SECT. 1. Of Suits, the Summons, and Service thereof.

1. EVERY suit brought to a J ustice’s Court shall be commenced
‘by a summons issued by said Justice, in which the name of the
parties, the nature and amount of the debt, and time and place at
which the defendant is required to appear and answer the plaintifff’s demand shall be stated. (c)

- 2. Whenever any person wishes to commence a suit against a

[Justice of the Peace, or a constable, he shall be authorized to
bring the same in any adjoining district to the one in which the
said Justice or constable resides. (d)

- 3. All bonds, notes or other instruments of "writing within the
jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, signed by two or more persons, may be sued upon jointly or severally, whether the same be
joint, or joint and several; and a suit brought against one of said
persons shall be no bar to a subsequent action brought against
either of the others, unless the plaintifff has received full satisfaction
for his debt or demand in the lirst or some other action brought
upon said instrument. (6)

4. The service of every summons issued by a Justice of the
Peace shall be by delivering a copy to the defendant, or leaving it
at his most notorious place of abode, at least ten days before the
sitting of the Court, to which the same is made returnable; and in
no instance shall bail be required of any defendant to a suit brought
in a J ustice’s Court. (f)

5. It shall be lawful for the constable, when the Justice of the
Peace in his district is interested in the case, or related to either
of the parties, or shall refuse to act therein, to return the wai'rant
and all other process in any such case before some other Justice in
said district, or in an adjoining district convenient to the defendant, and the Justice shall take cognizance thereof, and proceed
thereon as in other cases to the same amount. (g) _

6. In cases of emergency it shall be lawful for any Justice of the
Peace to direct any warrants, and other process, to any person appointed by him to serve such process ; and the service by such person shall be as valid as if made by a constable duly appointed and
qualified. 

Snow. 2. Of the Terms of Court, and of Jurors and Juries.

1. The said Justices of the Peace shall hold a Court once in
every month in their respective districts, when business may require it, upon some particular day in the month, to be determined
upon by the Justice residing therein ; "and when there are two or
more Justices in one district, it shall be their duty to hold their
Courts at the same time and place, as near the centre of the district
as may be convenient, and the said Justices shall have power to
adjourn their Courts from day to day, so long as the business of
the Courts may require. 

2. If the defendant in any cause before a Justice of the Peace

shall appear at the term at which the process shall be returnable,
the trial shall be set for the next succeeding term, unless the parties

shall consent to an immediate trial, but if the defendant shall fail

to_enter his appearance, judgment may be given against him by default; but for sufiicient cause shown upon oath, the Justice may

continue any cause, at the instance of either party, not exceeding
two terms. (Z)

3. Either party, plaintifff or defendant, shall have the right to require a jury to decide upon his or her cause, provided the amount
in controversy shall exceed the sum of five dollars; and when a

jury is required as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the Justice of the
Peace to direct the constable forthwith to summon six disinterested persons, not of kin to either party, who shall be sworn to try
the cause depending between the parties at variance, and a true
verdict give according to the evidence; and when the jury shall

have returned a verdict in the cause, the Justice shall enter up
judgment thereon agreeably to said verdict. 
4. Jurors to serve in the Courts of the Justices of the Peace of

‘this State, shall be summoned by any constable of the county in

which the Justice’s Court shall be held, in virtue of a precept to
any such constable directed, under the hand and seal of the Justice
awarding the same; they shall be summoned from the neighborhood of the place, and within the county in which the said Court
shall be held, at least one day before the day on which the Court to
which they may be summoned is to be held. (72)

5. Every person duly summoned to serve as a juror in any of the
Courts of the Justices of the Peace, who shall fail to attend said
Court without a good and suiiicient excuse, to be judged of by the
Justice of ' the Peace, shall pay a fine of three dollars; and if such
excuse be not made before the Justice of the Peace under whose
precept he was summoned to attend as a juror, an execution for
the amount of the said fine and costs shall be issued against the
goods and chattels of such defaulting juror, to be levied as in other
cases of execution. (0)

CHAPTER III.

OF THE TRIAL, AND ITS INCIDENTS, OF JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION,
OF COSTS, OF APPEALS, ETC., AND OF CONSTABLES.

SECT. 1. Of the Trial and its Incidents.

1. EVERY Justice of the Peace shall keep a docket book, in
which he shall make fair and accurate entries of all causes brought
before him, with his judgment thereon ; and shall also keep a book
in which a minute of all executions shall be entered, in whose
hands delivered, when returnable, the amount of the judgment and
costs, and a copy of the return of the constable in separate columns;
which dockets shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein
contained. (q)

2. No written pleadings shall be required in any cause depending before a Justice of the Peace, but either party shall have the
right to be heard by himself, or his agent, or his counsel as he
may think proper. (r)

3. In all cases brought to a J ustice’s Court, the best evidence
tlienature of the case will admit of shall be required, and in no instance shall either plaintifff or defendant be permitted to prove his
or her account by his or her own oath, without first taking an oath
in writing, that he or she has no other evidence whereby to establish
the same within his or her power to procure; and if any plaintifff or
defendant shall swear to his or her account agreeably to the provisions of this act, it shall be competent for the opposite party to
deny the same on oath, and the Court or jury shall then decide according to the weight and credibility of the testimony. (S)

4. In case of mutual debts and sets-off, the Justice may give a
judgment in favor of the defendant, provided it appears there 1s a
balance due him or her, and issue execution therefore as upon other
judgments. (t) . _ _ _ _

5. No person shall be permitted, 1n any trial in said Justice’s;
Court, to deny his bond, note, or other instrument of writing for the
payment of money, unless the same be denied on oath in writing ;
and the said Court shall, in all cases, grant a new trial upon good
cause shown. 

6. The said Justices of the Peace shall respectively have the
right to issue subpoenas for witnesses, and commissions to take
testimony by interrogatories, under the same rules, regulations,
and restrictions as are prescribed in taking of testimony in cases
depending in the Circuit Courts: Provided, that whenever subpoenas for Witnesses shall be issued by Justices of the Peace, the
same shall be served by the constable: And provided, also, that
the line against a witness for not attending under a subpoena issued
by a Justice of the Peace shall in no case exceed the sum of
twenty dollars. (2))

Snow. 2. Of Judgment and Execution.

1. All judgments which may be obtained in any Justice’s Court, ‘
shall be of equal dignity with judgments obtained in the Circuit‘
Courts, and shall bind the property of the defendants from their
dates respectively. (a:)

2. In all cases in Justices’ Courts, commenced against joint,
obligors or promisers, if any one or more of them shall make it
appear, to the satisfaction of the Court, that he, she, or they signed‘
said obligation as security or securities only, it shall be the duty of
the Justice to enter up judgment against him, her, or them, as
such, and. award execution in the same manner, which, when satisfied by said security, or out of their property, he, she, or they shall
have the control and benefit of said execution, for the purpose of
remunerating him, her, or themselves, out of their principal, in
the same manner as if they had been security on an appeal: Proraided, judgment and execution shall be against the principal
also. (y)

3. In all cases where a judgment by confession shall be given before a Justice of the Peace, the party confessing judgment shall be
debarred the right of appeal to, and a writ of error or certiorari
shall not lie from the Circuit Court in such case. (2)

4. N o ca. sa. shall be issued against any defendant by a Justice
of the Peace, nor shall any person be deprived of his liberty by any

civil process emanating from a J ustice’s Court. (a)

5. Justices of the Peace shall issue executions on all judgments
rendered by them at any time four days after said judgment, unless
affidavit be made as provided [in case of executions from Circuit
Court :] and all executions from Justices’ Courts shall be directed
to any constable of the county, and shall be made returnable when
satisfied ; and the said constable shall not be required to give more
than fifteen days’ notice of sale under execution, which notice
shall be by written advertisement, posted in three public places in
the said J ustice’s district, and all sales made by him shall be made
at the usual place of holding Courts in such J ustice’s districts, and

no sooner. (Z2)

6. In all respects, except as is provided in the foregoing section
(supra 5,) constables shall have the same powers in levying on
and selling property, and shall be subject to the same remedies and

responsibilities as are provided in the case of sheriffs. (c)

7. Executions issued by Justices of the Peace shall be directed
“to all and singular the constables of the county,” and shall have
full force throughout the same; and if in any case, it shall be necessary to send an execution to some county, other than the one in
which it was issued, to be levied upon the property of the defendant, it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, or his agent, to present the
same to a Justice of the Peace residing in the county to which the
same is carried, and the said Justice shall endorse thereon an authority to all and singular the constables of his county to levy the
same, which shall possess the same force as if it had originally been
issued by some Justice of the Peace of said county. (cl)

8. When a constable shall levy on lands or slaves, he shall be
required to give the same notice, and sell at the same place as is
required of sheriffs. (6) _

9. When any constable shall return an execution unsatisfied, It
shall be the duty of the Justice presiding in the district in which
the same is returned, to renew the same upon the application of the
plaintifff. The constable shall in all cases collect the money on executions as soon as it is practicable after he receives them, unless
differently instructed by the plaintifff; and any constable failing to

collect the amount of any execution placed in l]lS hands, (unless
otherwise directed by the plaintifff ) may be proceeded agamstby
motion before the Court of the district from whence said execution
issued; and if it appears, upon trial of said. motion, that due d111gence has not been used by said constable 1n the collection of the
money due on said execution, it shall be the duty of said Court to
give a judgment against said constable and his securities for the
amount of said execution, together with ten per cent. damages,
thereon, upon which judgment, execution shall ‘forthwith. issue. ()

10. N 0 sale of any goods or chattels, taken in execution by V11‘tue of a writ from a Justice of the Peace, shall be made _by any
constable, unless the same shall have been previously advertised, at
least fifteen days, in three public places in the county, one. of
which places shall be the door of the office of the Justice granting
the same; and all constables’ sales hereafter shall be on the Court
day of the Justice who issued the execution, and between the
hours of ten o’clock in the forenoon and three in the afternoon:
Provided, that if there shall not be present a suiiicient number of
persons, in the opinion of the constable, to produce a fair competition, on the day of sale as aforesaid, then, and in that case, the
constable may postpone the sale from day to day, not exceeding
three days, and if no sale be effected on the third day, the sale

shall be postponed until the regular sale day. (g)
1]. In all cases of affidavits of illegality to executions issued by

Justices of the Peace, and in all cases of claims to property arising
under levies made by virtue of any execution or process from a
Justice’s Court, the same shall be returned to and determined upon
at the J ustice’s Court under the same rules, regulations, and restrictions, as are prescribed for the trial of similar cases in the
Circuit Courts. (h)

SECT. 3. Of Costs.

1. All witnesses duly summoned and attending any Justice’s
Court, who reside out of the district in which such Court is held,
shall be entitled to seventy-five cents each per day for their attendance, and all witnesses residing in the district and summoned as
aforesaid, shall be entitled to fifty cents each per day for their
attendance: Provided, that there shall not be taxed in the bill of
costs the expense of more than two witnesses to prove the same
fact. (It)

2. Every jury that renders a verdict in a J ustice’s Court, shall be
entitled to receive the fee of one dollar and iifty cents from the
plaintifff, to be paid before delivery of the verdict, and to be taxed
in the bill of costs in said suit. (I)

3. In all cases in Justices’ Courts, when execution has been
issued and returned no property found, the Justice may, at his
discretion, issue execution against the plaintifff for costs due on
said execution after demand made. 

Snow. 4. Of Establishment of Lost Papers.

1. The Justices of the Peace shall have the power to establish lost
papers, notes, bonds, or other instruments of writing, in the following manner: when any officer, charged with the issuing or
service of any summons, writ, or other process, shall have lost any
note, bond, or other instrument of writing, necessary to the collection of any debt or demand, when the same shall not exceed the
sum of fifty dollars, he shall go before some Justice of the Peace, and
make an affidavit, in which he shall state the amount of such lost
note, bond, or other instrument of writing, the value thereof, to
whom payable, and all other facts relating thereto, and the manner
of losing the same. And the said Justice of the Peace shall
thereupon issue a notice to the defendant or maker of such lost
paper, requiring him to appear at the next Court, to show cause,
if any he can, why said lost paper may not be established; and the
said Justice shall also cause a notice of such application to be
posted up at the door of his court-room on the day appointed for
such investigation; and the said Justice shall, on the day appointed as aforesaid, proceed, if he is fully satisfied of the loss of
such paper, to make out a duplicate of the same, in the words of
the original, as nearly as the circumstances of the case and the
evidence before him will justify, and cause the aiiidavit of the
applicant to be attached thereto; and notes, bonds, and other
instruments of writing, thus established, shall be as valid in law, to
all intents and purposes, as the original could have been. 

SECT. 5. Of Appeals from Justices’ Courts.

1. If either party shall be dissatisfied with the judgment of the
Justice of the Peace in any cause tried before him, where the
amount in controversy shall exceed the sum of ten dollars, such
party may, within three days after the adjournment of the Court at
which the said judgment was rendered, demand an appeal to the
Circuit Court of ‘the county; and it shall be the duty of said Justice to grant said appeal upon the applicant’s paying the costs, and
giving bond and security for the eventual costs and condemnation
money ; and if the party applying shall succeed, upon the trial of
his appeal in the Circuit Court, he shall recover the costs paid as
aforesaid, to be taxed in the bill of costs in said Circuit Court. (0)

2. ‘When any party, who may be dissatisfied with a judgment of
a Justice of the Peace, shall appeal from the same, it shall be the

duty of the said Justice to file with the clerk of the Circuit Court,
on or before the first day of the_ next succeeding term of said
Court, a copy of the orders on l11S record, of the summons and
judgment, and also such original papers as may have been used on
the trial in his Court, taking care to retain copies of the same;
and the said Circuit Court shall try the case anew, upon its merits,
and without requiring written pleadings. (p) _ _

3. It shall be the duty of the clerk of said Circuit Court to
docket the case in its regular order on the appeal docket of said
Court, and to issue a citation to the appellee notifying him of said
appeal, which citation shall be served by the sheriff at least ten
days before the first day of the term of said Court. (q)

SECT. 6. Of the Constable, his Oath, Duties, <§-c.

1. Every constable, before he enters upon the duties of his
office, shall take and subscribe the following oath before a Justice
of the Peace, or Judge of the Circuit Court: “I do solemnly
swear that I will faithfully perform all the duties required of me
as Constable for the County of , without partiality or oppression, to the best of my ability and understanding. So help
me God.” (9')

2. The said constables shall be permitted to serve process,
and transact business, in any district in the county in which they
respectively reside; but no constable shall be allowed greater fees
for travelling than he would be entitled to, provided he resided in
the district in which the said business is done; and in all cases
the mileage shall be calcul-ated from the place of holding Courts
in the district. (.9)

3. It shall be the duty of the constables in the several counties
to serve all summons and warrants, and levy all executions placed
in their hands, agreeably to the tenor thereof, and to make due
returns of the same to the Court to which they may be made
returnable; and if any constable shall fail to pay over money collected by him on any execution or other process to the person
entitled to receive the same on demand, he shall be liable to a
penalty of twenty-five per cent. upon the amount so collected for
such failure; and it shall be the duty of the Justice of the Peace,
who issued said execution or other process at the ensuing term
of his Court, upon application of the plaintifff, and upon his
making it appear that said constable has received the amount of
said execution or other process, or any part thereof, and has failed
to'pay over the same on demand, to issue an execution against
said constable and his securities for the same, together with the

penalty herein prescribed; which execution shall be levied, and
the money raised, by some other constable of the county, out
of the property of said defaulting constable and his securities. (t)

4. Hereafter, whenever any constable resigns, or is removed
from oihce, it shall be his duty to deposit all his papers and unlinished business in the Court to which the same is made returnable;
and if any constable going out of office shall fail to deposit his
papers and unfinished business as aforesaid, he and his securities
shall be liable to the action of any person injured by such failure;
and if any constable shall die, it shall be the duty of his executor
or administrator to deposit his papers as aforesaid, and the Justice
of the Peace in whose Court the said papers and unfinished business are deposited, shall cause the same to be acted upon and closed
by another constable of said county. (11,)

CHAPTER IV.

OF THE FORMS FOR THE REGULATION OF PROCEEDINGS BEFORE
JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

1. THAT from and after the passage of this act, the following
forms shall be, and they are hereby, adopted for the regulation of

proceedings before Justices of the Peace :

Form of Summons.

State of Florida, }In the name of the State of Florida:

County. To any constable of said County:

You are hereby commanded to summon to appear
before me at on the day of , A. D.,
184 , to answer of a plea of debt due by
for the sum of dollars and cents; herein to fail
not, or judgment will be given against him by default.

Given under my hand and seal this day of , A. D.,
184 . [ssAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Subpoena.

State of Florida, }In the name of the State of Florida:
County. To any constable of said County:
You are hereby required to summon personally to

be and appear before me at on the day of
A. D., 184 , to testify and the truth to speak 1I1 behalf

3

of in a suit depending in my said Court, wherein
is plaintifff and is defendant, and herein
to fail not under penalty of the law._
Given under my hand and seal this day of A. D.
184 . [SEAL-]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Judgment.
State of Florida,

County. l Judgment is hereby rendered against the

defendant in favor of the plaintifff for the sum of dollars
and costs of suit.

Given under my hand and seal this day of A. D.
184 , [SEAL]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Garnishment.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida:

County. To
You are hereby required personally to be and appear before a
Justice’s Court to be holden at on the day of
, A. D., 184 , then and there in a certain matter
wherein is plaintifff, and is defendant, to

set forth upon oath what goods and chattels, rights and credits,
money or effects, were in your hands, custody, or control, at the
time of the service of this notice, or since, belonging to the said
defendant, and in what sum you are indebted to him: Herein
fail not.

Given under my hand and seal this day of , A. D.
184 .

Constable.

Form of Execution.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To

County. any lawful constable of said county :
You are hereby commanded to seize and take into your possession so much of the estate of as will make the sum of
dollars, which in a J ustice’s Court held at
on the day of A. D. 184 , were adjudged to

for his debt and costs of suit, together with the costs of this
execution, and that you have the same before me at

on the day of A. D. 184 .
Given under my hand and seal this day of A. D.
184 - [sEAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Appeal Bond.

State of Florida, } Know all men by these presents, that we,
County. are held and firmly bound unto

in the sum of dollars, for the payment whereof

well and truly to be _made, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors
and 3.(l[IllI1lSl'.I‘at0I'S, jointly and severally, iirmly by these presents.

Signed and sealed this day of A. D. 184 . The condition of this obligation is such, that whereas, the said

on the day of A. D. 184 , in a Justice’s Court, held
at recovered a judgment against the said

for the sum of dollars, and the said being dissatisfied with said judgment, and having prayed for and obtained an
appeal to the next term of the Court to be held for said
County: Now, if the said shall well and truly pay the

amount of said judgment, with all costs and damages that may be
awarded, in case the said judgment of said Justice shall be affirmed,
then this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and virtue. [SEAL]
[sEAL.]
[sEAL.]

Form of Replevy Bond.

1 State of Florida, } KNow all men by these presents, that we
County. are held and firmly bound
unto in the sum of dollars, for the payment
whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our heirs,
executors and administrators, jointly and severally, lirmly by these
presents. Signed and sealed this day of A. D. 184 .
The condition of this obligation is such, that whereas
a constable in and for said county, by virtue of an execution
in favor of against has levied upon the following property : —— [here describe the property] — and
wishing to replevy the same : Now if the said

shall have the said property forthcoming, at on the

day of A. D. 184 , then this obligation to be void, else

to remain in full force and virtue. [snataj
[snAL.

Form of Aflidavit and Bond, where a Claim is interposed to Property which

has been levied upon.

L- State'iof Florida, } Before the subscriber, a Justice of the

County.

Peace in and for said county, personally

came who, being duly sworn, says that the following
property, to wit: levied upon by a constable in and for said county, by virtue of an execution in favor of

against belongs to him, the said deponent
Sworn to and subscribed before me, }

this day of A. D. 184
Justice of the Peace.

State of Florida, Know all men by these presents, that we,
County. i and are held and

firmly bound unto in the sum of dollars, for the
payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our
heirs, executors and and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly
by these presents. Signed and sealed this day of A. D.
184 . The condition of this obligation is such, that whereas

a constable in and for said county, has levied upon the following property, to wit : by virtue of an execution in
favor of against and the above bounden

having interposed a claim to said property. Now, if
the said shall deliver said property upon demand of

said officer, if the same shall be adjudged to.be. the property of the defendant in execution, and pay to the plarntllf all damages, which
the jury on the trial of the right of property may.find 1n l]1S favor,
if it shall appear to the jury that such claim was lnterposed for the
purpose of delay, then this obligation to be void, else to remain in
full force and virtue. [SEAL]
[sEAL.]
[sEAL.]

Form of Oath to Jury.

You, and each of you, do solemnly swear that you will well and i
truly try this issue, wherein is plaintifff, and
is defendant, and a true verdict give, according to
evidence. So help you God !

Form of Oath to Jury to try a Claim.

YOU, and each of you, do solemnly swear that you will Well and

truly try this claim interposed by to this property levied‘
upon by virtue of an execution in favor of against

.. and a true verdict give according to the law and evidence;
and that you will also give to the plaintifff such damages not exceeding twenty per cent., as may appear reasonable and right, in
case that it should appear that such claim was interposed for delay.
So help you God !

Oath to be administered to a Witness. V

You do solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give on this‘

issue shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
So help you God!

Form of Affidavit ofa Party proving his Account by his own Oath.

State of Florida, } Before the subscriber, a Justice of the Peace}

County. in and for said county, personally came‘
who being duly sworn, says that the within (or annexed) account is just and correct, and that he has no way to prove
the same, but by his own oath.

Sworn to and subscribed before me
this day of A. D. 184 . 3

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Proceeding for a Peace Wari'ant.

State of Florida, } Before the subscriber, a Justice of the Peace
County. in and for said county, personally came
who being duly sworn, says that
did on the day of A. D. 184 , in the county
aforesaid, [here describe the cause of complaint,] and this -deponent
says he has reason to fear and does fear that the said
will commit the offense so threatened, and he prays that the
said may be required to find sureties to keep the
peace, and this deponent further says that he does not require surety
of the peace against said out of malice or for more
vexation, but for the cause aforesaid.
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this day of A. D. 184 . }
Justice of the Peace.

Warrant.‘
State of Florida, In the name of the State of Florida: To
County. } any lawful officer of said county :

WHEREAS has this day made oath before me that
did on the day of A. D. 184 , in the

county aforesaid, [here describe the cause of complaint,] and that
he has cause to fear and does fear that the said will

commit the offense so threatened, and that he prays the said

may be required to find sureties to keep the peace, and that
he does not pray that the said may be required to find
sureties to keep the peace, out of malice or for mere vexation, but
for the cause aforesaid: These are, thereforee, to command you

forthwith to arrest him, the said and bring him before
me to be dealt with according to law.

Given under my hand and seal this day of A. D.
184 , v [sEAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Bond to keep the Peace.

State of Florida, § KNOW all men by these presents, that we,
County.

are held and firmly bound unto the Governor of the State of Florida,

and his successors in office, in the sum of dollars, for

the payment whereof, well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves,

our heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly

by these presents. _
Signed and sealed, this day of A. D. 184 .

The condition of this obligation is such, that if the said
shall appear at the next term of the Circuit Court of
County, and not depart the same without leave, and shall in
the meanwhile keep the peace towards the people of the State of

Florida, and particularly towards of said county, then
this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and virtue.
Taken before and approved of by me, } [SEAL]
Justice of the Peace. [SEAL]
[SEAL]

Form of Warrant to commit on failure to find Sureties to keep the Peace.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To thef

County. Sheriff of said county : ._
WHEREAS, has this day made oath before me thatdid on the day of _ A. D. 184 ,'

in the county aforesaid, [here state the cause of complaint,] and
whereas, it appeared to me upon the examination of the said complaint, the evidence duly made on oath, reduced to writing and
subscribed, that there was just reason to fear the commission of the
said offense by the said and the said

having been required to enter into a recognizance in the
sum of dollars, with sufficient surety, to appear at the
next term of the Circuit Court to be held in said county, and not
to depart the same without leave, and in the meanwhile to keep the
peace towards the people of the State of Florida, and particularly
towards the said and the said
having refused to find such surety: These are, thereforee, to command you forthwith to convey the said to the
common jail of said county, and to-deliver him to the keeper thereof, who is hereby required to receive the said into
his custody in the said jail, and to keep him safely there until he
phall find such security, or be thence discharged by due course of
aw.

Given under my hand this day of A. D. 184 .
[sEAL.]
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Proceedings in Cases of Assault and Battery.

State of Florida, I

County. 1 Before the subscriber, a Justice of the
Peace, in and for said county, personally came who
being duly sworn says that one on the day of

A. D. 184 , in the county aforesaid, in and upon the said

deponent an assault did make, and him the said deponent, then and
there did beat, bruise, wound and ill treat.
Sworn to and subscribed before me }

this day of A. D. 184 .
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Warrant.
State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To

County. any lawful officer of said county :
WHEREAS, has this day made oath before me, that
one on the day of A. D. 184 , in the

county aforesaid, in and upon him the said deponent an assault did
make, and him the said deponent then and there did beat, bruise,
wound and ill treat: These are, thereforee, to command you forthwith to arrest the said and to bring him before me
to be dealt with according to law. Given under my hand and seal
this day of A. D. 184 . [SEAL]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Proceedings in Cases of’ Larceny.

State of Florida, }
County. Before the subscriber, a Justice of the
Peace, in and for said county, personally came who being duly sworn says that one on the day of p
A. D. 184 , in the county aforesaid, [describe particularly
the articles and the value of each] of the goods and chattels of one
[set forth the owner,] then and there being found, feloniously did
steal, take and carry away.
Sworn to and subscribed before me }

this day of A. D. 184 .
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Warrant.

State of Florida, In the name of the State of Florida: To
County. i any lawful officer of said county :
WHEREAS, has this day made oath before me, that
one on the day of A. D. 184 , in
the county aforesaid, [here describe the articles as in the allidavit]
of the goods and chattels of one [here set forth the owner’s name]
then and there being found, feloniously did steal, take, and carry
away : These are, thereforee, to command you, forthwith to arrest
the said and bring him before me to be dealt with according to law.
Given under my hand and seal this day of

A. D. 184 . [.sEAI-.]
Justice of the Peace.

Recognizance for Appearance at Court.

State of Florida, KNOW all men by these presents, that we
County. l

and are held.

and firmly bound unto the governor of Florida, and his successors‘

in office, the said —— [here insert the name of the principal] ——in
the sum of dollars, and the said each in the
sum of -— [here insert one half the sum for which the principal is
bound] —- for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, we
bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, firmly by
these presents. Signed and sealed this day of A. D.
184 . The condition of this obligation is such, that if the said
shall appear at the next term of the Circuit Court, to
be held in and for said county, to answer to an indictment for-—
[describe the offense] —and shall not depart the same without leave,
then this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and
virtue.
Taken before and approved of by me, ] [sEAI..]
Justice of the Peace. [SEAL]

[SEAL

Warrant of Commitment on Failure to give Bond.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To

County. the sheriff of said county :
Whereas has this day made oath before me in
writing, that one on the day of A. D.

184 , in the county aforesaid, did——— [here describe the offense
precisely as it is set forth in the affidavit and warrant] —— and whereas it appeared to me from an examination of the witnesses, duly
made on oath, reduced to writing and subscribed, that there was
just reason to believe that the said was guilty of such
offense, and the said on being brought before me on
a capias, was required to enter into a recognizance, with sufiicient
surety in the sum of dollars, to appear at the next term of
the Circuit Court, to be held in and for said county, and not to depart the same without leave, and the said having

refused to find such security : You are, thereforee, commanded
forthwith to convey the said to the common jail of

the said county, and to deliver him to the keeper thereof, who is
hereby required to receive the said into his custody

in the said jail, and to keep him safely there until he shall find such
security, or be thence discharged by due course of law. 1
Given under my hand and seal this day of

e A. D. 184 . [SEAL]

Justice of the Peace.

Recognizance of Witness for the State.

State of Florida, } Know all men by these presents that I,

County. _ am held and firmly
bound unto the Governor of Florida, in the sum of dollars,

for the payment whereof well and truly to be made, I bind myself,
my heirs, executors and administrators, firmly by these presents.
Signed and sealed‘ this day of A. D. 184 .
The condition of this obligation is such, that if I personally appear
before the Circuit Court of said county, at its next term, to be
holden in and for said county, then and there to give evidence in
behalf of the State against who is charged with-—
[describe the oifence] — and not depart the same without leave,

then this obligation to be void, else to remain in full force and
virtue.

Taken before and approved of
by me, }

Justice of the Peace. [sEAL.]

Commitment of Witness for not entering into Recognizance.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To
County. the Sheriff of said county:

Whereas A. B. has this day been brought before me, a Justice
of the Peace in and for said county, upon the charge of -— [here
state the offense precisely as it is laid in the Warrant]—-and I
having examined the witnesses on oath, and the said A. B. without
oath, in due form of law, did adjudge that said offense had been
committed, and that there was probable cause to believe the said
A. B. guilty thereof, and whereas upon said adjudication, I did
order C. D. who was then and there before me, a material witness
in behalf of the State, to become recognized in the sum of
dollars, for his appearance at the next term of the Circuit Court,
to be holden in and for said county, and the said C. D. having
failed to enter into such recognizance: These are thereforee to command you forthwith to take the said C. D. and convey him to the
common jail of said county, the keeper whereof is hereby required
to detain him in custody, in said jail, until he shall comply with
said order, or otherwise be discharged according to law.

Given under my hand and seal, this day of

A. D. 184 . [sEAL.]
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Search Warrant.

State of Florida, Before the subscriber, a Justice of the
County. } Peace, in and for said county, personally
came A. B., who being duly sworn, says, that on the day_ Of
A. D. 184 , the following goods—-— [here describe
the goods particularly] —- were feloniously stolen, taken and carried
away, out of the house of the said A. B. in the county aforesaid,
and that the said A. B. has probable cause to suspect, and does
suspect, that the said goods, or part thereof, are concealed in the
dwelling-house of C. D. in the said county.
Sworn to and subscribed before me,}

this day of A. D. 184
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Warrant.

State of Florida, In the name of the State of Florida: To
County. i any lawful officer of said county:

Whereas A. B. has this day made oath before me, that the following goods, to wit —— [here describe the goods as in the atiidavit]
_ on the day of 184 , were feloniously stolen,
taken and carried away, out of the house of the said A.» B., in the
county aforesaid, and that he, the said A. B., has probable cause to
suspect, and does suspect, that the said goods, or part thereof, are
concealed in the dwelling-house of C. D. in the county aforesaid:
These are thereforee to command you, with proper and necessary
assistance, to enter in the daytime in the dwelling-house of the
said C. D., in the county aforesaid, and there diligently to search
for the said goods, and if the same, or any part thereof, shall be
found upon such search, that you bring the goods so found, and
also the body of the said C. D. before me, to be disposed of and
dealt with according to law.

Given under my hand seal, this day of 184
[sEAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Proceeding on a Charge for Murder.

State of Florida, Before the subscriber, a Justice of the
County. lPeace, in and for said county, personally
came A. B., who being duly sworn, says that C. D. on the day
of 184 in the county of in, and upon
one E. F. in the peace of God then and there being, feloniously,
willfully, and of his malice aforethought, did make an assault, and
that the said C. D. with a certain knife which he then and there
had and held, in and upon the said E. F. a mortal wound did inflict, of which said mortal wound the said E. F. died, and that the
said C. D. in manner aforesaid, the said E. F. then and there did
kill and murder, [or if the killing was by shooting, vary the form
by adding after the words “ assault,” as follows]: and that the
said C. D. with a certain gun, which he, the said C. D. then and
there had and held, in and upon the said E. F. a mortal wound did
inflict, of which said mortal wound the said E. F. died, and that
the said C. D. in manner aforesaid, the said E. F. then and there
did kill and murder.

Sworn to and subscribed before me,}

‘.
c

this day of 184 .
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Warrant.

State of Florida, In the name of the State of Florida:
County. l County : "
To any lawful officer of said county :
Whereas A. B. has this day made oath before me — [here recite
the offense precisely as it is set forth in the affidavit] -— These are

thereforee to command you forthwith to arrest the said C. D., and
bring him before me, and some other Justice of the Peace, to be
dealt with according to law.

Given under my hand and seal, this day of A. D.
184 . [sEAL.]

Form of Commitment to Jail of another County.

State of Florida, Whereas A. B. has this day made oath beCounty. l fore me in writing that C. D. on the

day of 184 , in the county of [here describe the offense precisely as it is set forth in the affidavit] —and
whereas it appeared to us, from an examination of the witnesses
duly made on oath, reduced to writing and subscribed, and a copy
of which is hereunto annexed, that there was just reason to believe
that the said C. D. was guilty of the said offense, and whereas
there is no jail or place of safe keeping in the said county: These
are thereforee to command you to deliver the said C. D. to the Sheriff of County, who is hereby required to receive the
said C. D. into his custody, in the common jail of said county,
there to be confined and dealt with according to law.

Given under my hand and seal, this day of A. D.
184 . [sEAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form fol‘ Proceedings in Attachment Cases.

State of Florida, Before the Subscriber, a Justice of the
County. l Peace in and for said county, personally
came A. B., who who being duly sworn, says, that C. D. is justly
indebted to him in the sum of dollars, which amount is actually due, and that the said C. D. is actually removing out of the
State of Florida, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served
upon him, [or] that the said C. D. resides beyond the limits of the
State of Florida, so that the ordinary process of the law cannot be
served upon him, [or] that the said C. D. absconds or conceals
himself, so that the ordinary process of the law cannot be served
upon him, [or] that the said C. D. is actually removing his property
beyond the limits of the State of Florida, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of his just debts, [or] that the said C. D. is
fraudulently disposing of his property for the purpose of avoiding
the payment of his just debts.
Sworn to and subscribed before me
this day of 184 . }
Justice of the Peace.

Form of Bonds.

State of Florida, j Know all men by these presents, that we
County. A. B. and and are held and

are firmly bound unto C. D. in the sum of dollars, for the
payment whereof well and truly to be made, we bind ourselves, our

heirs, executors and administrators, jointly and severally, firmly by
these presents. Signed and sealed this _ day of A. D.

The condition of the above obligation IS such, that whereas the
said A. B. has this day applied for and obtained an attachment
against the lands, tenements, goods and chattels of  D. for the
sum of dollars and cents : Now if the said A. B. shall
well and truly pay all costs and damages the defendant, the.said
C. D., may sustain in consequence of improperly suing out said attachment, then this obligation to be void, else to remain 1n full
force and virtue.

Taken before and approved by me, } [SEAL-]

Justice of the Peace. [sEAL.]
[SEAL]

Form of Attachment.

State of Florida, } In the name of the State of Florida: To.

County. any Constable of said county :
You are hereby commanded to attach and take into your custody,
so much of the lands, tenements, goods and chattels of C. D. as
will be sufficient to satisfy A. B. in the sum of dollars and

cents and costs, and that you have the same before me at a
Justice’s Court, to be held at on the day of
next : Herein fail not.

Given under my hand and seal, this day of A. D.

[sEaL.]
184 . Justice of the Peace.

Form of Notice to be posted at three public places in the District.

vs. notiiied of the commencement of this suit, returnable to
C. D. a. Justice’s Court, to be held at on the
day of next, and to appear and plead to the same.
Given under my hand and seal, this day of 184
[sEAL.]

Justice of the Peace.

Form of Distress for Rent.

A. B. } The defendant and all others interested are hereby;

State of Florida, } Before the subscriber, a Justice of thei

County.

came A. B., who being duly sworn, says that C. D. is indebted to
him In the sum of dollars and cents, for the re11t and

use of the following premises in said county, to wit: [here describe the house or land] from the day of A. D.

184 , to day of 184

‘Sworn to and subscribed before me i
this day of 184 . }

Justice of the Peace.

Peace, in and for said county, personallyi


