TITLE II.
or ACTIONS.

CHAPTER 1. General principles.
CHAPTER 2. Of attachments.

CHAPTER 3. Petition and process.
CHAPTER 4. Of the venue.

CHAPTER 5. Bail in civil cases.
CHAPTER 6. Of making parties.
CHAPTER 7. Of abatement, retraxit, &c.

 

CHAPTER I.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES.

Sscnox. SECTION.
3174. For every right &c. 3181. Parties to actions on contracts.
3175. Action defined 3182. Parties to actions for torts.
3176. All distinctions of actions abolished 3183. Tenant in common may sue alone.
3177. A civil action defined. 3184. Dates & amounts may be in figures.
3178. A penal action defined. 3185. DiB‘erent claims may be joined.
3179. Demand—when required. 3186. When parties must sue separately.

3180. Claims of persons—can’t be joined. 3187. A suit by an infant is not void.

§3174. For every right there shall be a remedy, and every
court having jurisdiction of the one, may if necessary frame the
other. .

§317 5. An action is merely the judicial means of enforcing a
right. ‘

§317 6. All distinction of actions into real, personal and mixed
are abolished. An action may be against the person, or against
property, or both. Generally, a proceeding against the person
binds the property also, and a proceeding agaist property, Without service on the person, binds only the particular property.

§3177. A civil action is one founded on private rights, arising
either from contract or tort. .

§317 8. A penal action is one allowed in pursuance of public
justice under particular laws. If no special officer is authorized to be the plaintifff therein, the State, or the Governor, or the
Attorney or Solicitor General, may be the plaintifff.

$317 9. No demand is necessary to the commencement of an
action, except in such cases as the law or the contract prescribes.

§3180. Distinct and separate claims of or against different per-,
sons cannot be joined in the same action. I

§3181. As a general rule, the action on a contract whether ex-1
press or implied, or whether by parol or under seal, or ofrecord,i
must be brought in the name of the party in whom the legal interest in such contract is vested, and against the party who made
it in person or by agent.

§3182. An action for a tort must, in general, be brought in:
the name of the person whose legal right has been affected, andi
who was legally interested in the preperty at the time the injury
thereto was committed, and against the party committing the injury, either by himself, his servant, or agent in his employment.

§3183. A tenant in common need not join his co-tenant, but
may sue separately for his interest, and the judgment in such‘
case effects only himself. ‘

§3184. Dates and amounts in pleading may be set out in figures or Arabic numerals, and when a party signs a contract with
the initials of his christian name only, he may be sued in the
same way.

§3185. All claims arising ea: contrcwt-u between the same parties
may be joined in the same action, and all claims arising ea: delicto‘
may in like manner be joined. The defendant may also set up
as a defense, all claims against the plaintifff of a similar nature
with the plaintifff’s demand.

§ 3186. Courts will not in one suit take cognizance of distinct
and separate claims of different persons, but where the damage, as
well as the interest is several, each party injured must, in that
case, sue separately.

§3187. A suit commenced and prosecuted by an infant alone
is not void, and although the suit is defective in wanting a guardian or next. friend, the defect is a amendable before verdict, and
cured by verdict.

CHAPTER II.
or arraonums.

Armour 1. Of issuing attachments.

A311an 2. In what manner, on what property executed, &c.
Amen: 3. Proceedings on garnishments.

Amen: 4:. Pleading and defenses.

Amen. 5. RepleVy and disposition of property attached.
Arman]: 6. Claim and proceedings therein.

ARTICLE 7. Lien of attachments, judgments and executions.

ARTICLE 1.
OF ISSUING ATTACHMENTS.
Eamon. Ssorrox.
3188. Grounds of attachment. 3197. Wth the debt 18 not due.
3139, Amy“, 3198. Joint contracts—mayhem
3190. Bond to be given. ‘ 3199. Executors, administrators, «to.
3191. Co-partner may make oath &c. 3200. Security or endorsors vs. principal.
3192. Issue by a Judge, Justice 3c. 3201. May issue pending suit.
3193. Property m another county. 3202. Foreign incorporations.
3194:. When returnable. 3203. Bail may be attached.
3195. To whom directed. 3204. Not void for want of form.
3196. Issue and levy on Sunday. 3205. Adidaint, bond and attachment.

§3188. Attachments may issue in the following cases:
1. When the debtor resides out of the State.
2. When he is actually removing, or about to remove without

the limits of the county.
3. When he absconds.

4. When he conceals himself.
5. When he resists a legal arrest.

6. When he is causing his property to be removed beyond the
limits of the State. ,

§ 3189. Before process of attachment shall issue, the party seeking the same, his agents or attorney at law, shall make an affidavit before some Judge of the Superior Court, Justice of the Inforior Court, Justice of the Peace, or Notary Public that the deb.
' tor has placed himself in some one of the positions enumerated
in this Code, and also of the amount of the debt claimed to be
due. WhendleaBdavit is madebythe attorneyatlaw, or agent

 

of the party, he may swear that the amount claimed to be due, is
due according to the best of his knowledge and belief.

§3190. The party seeking the attachment before the same?
issues, shall also give bond with good security in an amount atl
least double the debt sworn to, payable to the defendant in attach-i
meut, conditioned to pay such defendant all damages that he may
sustain, and also all costs that. may be incurred by him in consequence of sueiug out the attachment in the event the plaintiil' shall
fail to recover in said case; which bond it shall he the duty of the
magistrate or other o'llieer before whom the affidavit is made to
take, and Where the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney at
law of the plaintifff, such agent. or attorney at law is hereby authorized to sign the name of the principal who shall also be bound
thereby in the same manner as though he had signed it himself.

§3191. When the debt for the recovery of which the attachment is sought is due to a eo-partnership, or is due to several persons jointly, it shall be lawful for any one of the (to-partners or
joint creditors, his agent or attorney at law, to make the affidavit,
and give the bond as prescribed by this Code, and to sign the name
of the other co-partners or joint creditors to said bond, and they
shall be bound thereby in the same manner as though they had
signed it themselves.

§3192. Afl'idavit being thus made and bond given, it shall be
the duty of the oilieer, before Whom such affidavit is made, and
bond given, or any officer anthori‘zed so to do, to issue an attach—
ment against the defendant, which rilay be levied on the property
of the defemlaut. both real and personal. if to he found in this
State.

§3193. When the plaintifff in attachment wishes to levy his
attachment upon property in a different county from that in
. which the same is returnable, it shall be the duty of the magistrate or other officer issuing such attachment, upon the request
' of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, to make out a
copy or coPies of the original attachment, bond and affidavit, and
certify the same, ofiicially, to be a true copy or copies, and upon
such copies being delivered to any officer to whom the same
.is directed, of the county where the property of the defendant is,
it shall be the duty of such odicer to levy forthwith the same
upon the property of the defendant in such county, and to return
the same,- with his outings and doings entered thereon, to the court
to which the original attachment invaluable.

l §3194. When the amount sworn to shall exceed the sum of fifty
dollars, the attachment shall be made returnable to the next term
of the Sulam'ini' or l]lll.‘l'lrrl' (Hunt (’1' the mannty where the (toil-nil;mt. l'tgsithm. or whore lit! hut l't.‘r~.ll_ll‘tl, hut it" rlltflt {Hilli'l -.--h;1ll sit
within twenty days next after issuing 511'le tiltitt'ltlllt_‘lli. it shall
he nnulc I'etni'nufile tn the next till” (it thn Superior or interior
Court llltfl't‘llll't‘l'. and when thtulnht s‘x'mi'n tm Liner-I Imt L‘Xt't‘L’tl the
511111ut't'itly(lull:n‘:-1. thn :lttztt'lilili_'11t.~'~ ~'h:tll he ntmhr l'utlll'nnlllu tu
the next Justin-:3 (.itttll't- Ht ill!) tlisti'ivt in while illt' tlvhtc-t‘ i'i-sithfs,
(11‘ last resided, hut it' the next Justine-a~ Court. shall sit. within ten
days. next utter issuing sttvh uttm-hnn-nt. it shall ln_'llt:1(lL‘.I'L‘llll‘llitlllt‘
to the next Just-ices Court Illt.’l't.‘ttllt*l‘, t.‘X('t‘]Il when the. (lutlenthmt
resides wilt. of the State, :unl in that. t':t~‘t.'. it. the (light h\\'1'|l‘ll to exseeds titty dollars, the :Ltlnt-hnnmt nnly lJL‘ nnulv I'nttll'nnhlu It) the
Snpvriur or Interim Court of any munty in this State. and it' it.
(lOUrS not uxvecd titty «lullurs. the uttm'hnwnt may he. IlltttlL‘ return—
afile tn a, -l ustivt's‘ Court. ut‘ any district ut‘ any runnty in this
State.

§3195. Attachments returnable to the Superior and Inferior
Courts shall be directed to all and singular the Sheriffs and Constables of this State, and attachments returnable to the Justices’
Courts shall be directed to all and singular the Constables of this
State.

§ 3196. Attachments may issue and be levied on Sunday when
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law shall swear, in addition
to the oath prescribed by this Code, that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the debt, unless process of attachment do issue
on Sunday, and shall also comply with the other provisions of
this Code in relation to issuing attachments.

§ 3197. When the debt is not due, the debtor shall be subject
to attachment in the same manner and to the same extent as in
cases where the debt is due, except that where the debt does not
become due before final judgment, execution upon the judgment
shall he stayed until the debt is due. .

§3198. In cases of joint contractors and co-partners, where any
one of them shall render himself liable to attachment according
to law, an attachment may issue against him upon the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney at law complying with the previous provisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of attachments, and
the proceedings against such joint contractors or co-partner shall
be in all respects as in other cases of attachments, except that

such attachment shall be levied only upon the separate property 3:
of such joint contracter or co-partner. p.
§3199. Process of attachment may issue against an adminis-u
trator on an estate, or the executor of the last will and testament:
of any deceased person, as. in other cases when such administra-I'
tor or e):(_~ti:111nr shall he actually removing, or about. to remove
the property of said (let-eased person without the limits of any
county of this State. pruvitletl iinal judgment shall not. he enterCtl up against such atlutiuistratta' or executor until after the expiration of two years from the granting of letters of administra—Q
tion, or letters testamentary as the ease 111a}? he, and in all cases
of money demands, whether arising m: mat/ante: or our (Yd/etc,
plaintitl' shall have the. right to sue out the attaehment when thej
defendant shall have placed himself in such situation as will an-1
thorize a plaintitl' to sue out. attachment. upon the 1.":laint.itl"s coluplying with the law new of force in relation to issuing :‘LttaehInents.
-'~ 32!“). In all cases where a person is surety or endorser upon:
an instrument. t.rt'\x'1'itittg, and the prineilutl shall heeolne subject:
to attachment :u:(_-.t_artlin;_: to the prm'ision of section 3156 of;
this Code, it shall he lawful for such surety or emlorsel‘, upon

(“I

mmplying with the prtwisitms of this Cede in relation to the issuing ut' attachments, to have attachment aga‘tinst his principal,
and the prtngemlings shall he in all respects the same as in other
cases of attachment, according to the provisions of this Code;
and the money raised by such attachments shall be paid to the
person holding such instrument of writing. But if the surety ori
endorser has paid the debt, then the money raised upon such attachment, or so much thereof as will pay the amount the surety
or endorser has paid, shall be paid to such surety or endorser, and
in case the debt is not due at the time udgment is rendered
against the principal, execution shall be stayed until the debt is:
due.

§ 3201. In all cases where the plaintifff has commenced suit for‘
the recovery of a debt, and the defendant, during the pendency1
of such suit, shall become subject to attachment agreeable to section 3188 of this Code, the plaintifff, upon complying with the
provisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of attachments,
may have an attachment against the defendant, and all the proceedings in relation to the same shall be as hereinbefore prescribed in relation to attachments where no suit is pending. And a

 

satisfaction of the judgment in the common law action shall satisfy the judgment in attachment, and a satisfaction of the judgment in attachment shall satisfy the judgment in the common law
action. A

§3202. Attachments may issue against incorporations not inTcorporated by the laws of this State, who are transacting business
within the State, under the same rules and regulations as are by
this Code prescribed in relation to issuing attachments and garnishments in other cases. .

§3203. In all civil suits in which bail has been required, and
such bail has been given, andpending the liability of said bail,
he shall attempt to remove beyond the State or county in which
such bail resided at the time the same was required, it shall be .
lawful for the party at whose suit bail was required, to attach the
property of said bail to answer the suit of the party sueing out the
same, provided that said bail may discharge his property from said
levy by delivering up the body of the principal according to the
laws of this State. '

§3204. A substantial compliance in all matters of form shall
be held sufficient in all applications for attachment, and in all attachments issued as provided by this Code.

§3205. In all cases of attachment the form of the affidavit,
bond and attachment may be as follows:

Ajz‘da’vit.

GEORGIA, 1

County. 5
Before me the subscriber a in and for said countv
personally and on oath says, that is indebted to him
in the sum of , and that the said Sworn to before me

, this the day of 18
Bond.

GEORGIA,

County. 3

‘We principal and security, acknowledge ourselves
bound unto in the sum of dollars subject to the following conditions:

That the said principal is seeking an attachment against
the said which is now about to be sued out returnable to
the term of the court of the county aforesaid; now
if the said shall pay all damages that the said may

 

sustain, and also all costs that may be incurred by him in consequence of sueing out such attachment in the event that the

ear shall fail to recover in said case, then this bond to be
void.
Executed in presence of , this day of 18 .
[L. 3.]
[L. 8.]
Attachment.
GEORGIA, l_
County. 5

To all and singular the Sheriffs and Constables of said State :,
You are hereby commanded to attach and seize so much of the
property of as will make the sum of dollars and all
costs, and also to serve such summons of garnishment'as may be
placed in your hands, and that you make return of this attachment with your actings and doings entered thereon, to the

term of the court of said county, to which court this attachment is hereby made returnable. Hereof fail not. Witness

my hand and seal , this the day of 18 .
[L. 3.]

—-_

ARTICLE II.

[N WHAT MANNER, ON WHAT PROPERTY EXECUTED, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.
SECTION. - SECTION.
3206. Duty of officer to whom directed. 3211. Shares or interest in incorporation.
3207. Must make a return. 3212. Trausfer alter levy void.

3208. Must be levied in order received. 3213. Certificate of purchase.
3209. May be levied on property of def‘t. 3214. Vendor vs. vendee—sale of land.
3210. May be levied by garnishment.

§3206. It shall be the duty of any one of the officers to whom;
an attachment may be directed, as provided in Section 3195, Ari
ticle I, to levy the same upon the property of the defendanti
that may be found in the county of which he is Sheriff or Constable, and when any attachment shall come into the hands of
any officer of the county in which such attachment is returnable,
and the defendant shall have removed his property beyond thej
limits of said county before such attachment is executed, it shall‘
be the duty of the oiiicer having such attachment to follow such
property into any county in the State, and levy the same, and

_________________________________.____——————————

bring the property back into the county where the attachment is\
returnable.

$3207. It shall be the duty of the ofIicer levying such attachment, to return the same, with his actings and doings entered
thereon, together with the affidavit and bond, to the court to
which the same is made returnable.

: _ §3208. In all cases it shall be the duty of the officer levying
attachments, to levy them in the order in which they came into
his hands, and it shall be his duty to enter upon the same the
year, month, day of the month, and hour of the day on which he
made the levy.

§3209. When an attachment has been issued by the proper
officer, the same may be levied upon the property of the defendant, both real and personal, which may be found in the county.

§3210. Service of the attachment, by serving process of garnishment, shall be as effectual for all purposes as though the attachment had been served by levying the same upon the property
of the defendant.

§3211. When the process of attachment shall issue against a

'party who shall have or own any interests or an amount of shares
in any corporation in this State, the same may be attached in the
following manner: the officer in whose hands the attachment is
placed, shall endorse an entry thereon of his levy on the corporate shares or interest of the defendant, and, shall forthwith serve
a copy of the attachment so endorsed upon the President of the
corporation, at the office of the company, or by leaving the same
at the usual or most notorious place of doing the business of such
company, which entry and service shall amount to, and be considered a seizure of said corporate interest or shares, to all intents and purposes, and under an execution issued on such attachment, may be sold as in other cases of ordinary execution.

§3212. Any transfer by the defendant of the stock or interest,
so attached after the levy of such attachment, shall be void, and
when an execution is issued, the said stock or interest shall be
sold by the Sheriff, or his deputy, according to the provisions of
this Code, to make bank and other stocks subject to executions.

§3213. Certificates of purchase shall be granted by the oiiicer
selling, as prescribed in cases of executions, and on presentation
of such certificates to the proper oliicer of said corporation, it shall
be his duty to make such transfer on his books, if necessary, and

aiford the purchaser such evidence 'of title to the stock pun:
whmied as is usual and neeessary with ether steeklmlders.

§:—3214. In all eases of sale et'lands, where the render has notw
executed a deed of mnveyenee to the purehaser fur the same, but?
has given hond for titles, or other evidence of the etmtraet, andI
the Intrehase limiter has not been paid, and the vendee shall hemnie liahie to attachment. agreeafile it) the provisions of section
3185 of this Code, tli'tttt'lllllellt ma},r issue against. him at the ill~tiinee ef the render, npen eenil'alying with the prtn'isiens of this
(Rule in I'elatiun to attmrhnients. Wliit'll said attinshnient shall he,
hw'ied upon the hind deserihetl in the lujind, er uthel' evidence of
mntraet tirr titles, and the snhserlnent prmeeedings shall he, in all

 

respects, as heretutlare. preserihed in this (‘ude in relation to attat-hnients, which said nttaehnients shall he levied 1111011 the land
{it‘at‘l'lllttl in the bend or other evidenee ut' eelitrnet iin‘titles,:1nd
the subsequent. prureedings shall he. in all respects, as heretofore
}-1‘e.-ei'ihetl in this (Jude. in l'eltiiiull to :-ttt:'u__‘l111}e.11t:~l. and it. shall he
hurl'nl for the party henntl lry sin-h lmnd 01' other m_mt.1‘aet for
titles, to file. in the (,‘lerh‘a Ulilt't} of the Superior (hurt. ut' the
uni-Atty where the land is situated, :1 timid and sntlieient deed efi
- mu-yam:e nt'said hind to the uhligee et' said hend or other eennmrt 1111' titles. and when judgment is uhtnined 111ml: sneh attaeh-,
rat-m. the exevntion issuing: tilCl'CUli may he. levied upon saidj
i-‘LIltl, and the same. he. seld, and the money arising ll‘Ulll said sale
shall he appropriate} In the. payment. “1' rillll judgment en the atii-ii‘it‘il‘iellt tn the eXrinsiun of any other attaehinent. judgment or

other :"leht ut' the defendant.

ARTICLE III.
PROCEEDINGS 0N GARNISIIMENTS.

SECTION. Sacnox.
3215. How issued, directed, served, &c. 3218. Answering and admitting effects.
3216. Garnishee residing out of county. 3219. Plaintiff may traverse the answer.
3217. Garnishee failing to answer. 3220. Issue—how tried, &c.

§3215. In all cases where attachment may issue, it shall be:
the duty of the Magistrate, or other odicer issuing the same, at'
the request of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, to issue
summons of garnishment, directed to any person that may be indebted to, or have property or effects of the defendant in their

 

hands, requiring them to appear at the court to which the attachment is made returnable, then and there to depose on oath what
they were indebted to the defendant at the time of the service of
said garnishment, or what property or effects of his they have in
their hands, or had at the time of the service of said summons of
garnishment, and it shall be the duty of the officer levying such
attachment to serve such summons of garnishment.
§3216. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, shall
desire to garnishee persons not residing in the county in which
the attachment issues, it shall be the duty of the Magistrate issuing the same, at the request of ‘the plaintifff, his agent or attorney
at law, to make out a copy of the affidavit, bond and attachment,
and certify the same to be a true copy, and upon the delivery of
such copy to any Magistrate, or other officer who is authorized
by law to issue an attachment in the county of which the
person sought to be garnisheed resides, it shall be the duty of
such Magistrate, or other oilicer, to make out a summons of garnishment for such persons as he may be requested to do by the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, requiring such persons to
be an appear at the next Superior or Inferior Court, or Justice’s
Court of the county in which it issued, and depose in the manner
prescribed by law; but if the next court, as aforesaid, shall be
held within less than ten days next after the issuing of said summons of garnishment, then the person garnished shall be required
to appear and depose at the next court thereafter, which said
summons may be served by any officer authorized to levy an at) tachment by law, who shall return such certified copy, affidavit,
lbond and attachment, to the court as aforesaid, together with his
aetings and doings entered thereon.
§3217. When any person summoned as garnishee fails to ap’pear in obedience to the summons, and answer at the first term
of the court at which he is required to appear, the case shall
stand continued until the next term of the court, and if he should
fail to appear and answer by said next term, the plaintifff may on
motion, have judgment against him for the amount of the judg—
ment he may have obtained against the defendant in attachment.
'or for so much thereof as shall remain unpaid at the time the
judgment is rendered against the garnishee, and the court may
continue the case until final judgment is rendered against the defendant in attachment.

§3218. When the garnishee appears and answers that he is:
indebted to, or has property or effects in his hands belonging to I
the defendant in attachment, judgment shall be rendered against
him in favor of the plaintifff for such acknowledged indebtedness,
and the property and etfects whatever they may he, shall be de—
livered into the hands of the Sheriff or Constable as the case may I
be, and by order of the court shall be by him sold, and the money '
arising from such sale, shall be held subject to the order of the
court and in case the garnishee fails to deliver over such property or effects to the oiiicer as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the
court to attach him as for contempt; the property and effects so]
surrendered and delivered into the hands of the officer as;
aforesaid, shall be sold at. such time and place, and after such no—
tice given, as the court ordering the same shall direct.

§3219. \Vhen the summons of garnishment is returnable t01
the Superior or Inferior Court, and the plaintifff in attachment isi
not content with the answer of the garnishee, he may at the termi
of the court to which the return is made, traverse the same, and
the issue formed upon such trave'se shall be tried at the same}
term by a petit j ury, unless cause is shown for a continuance, and'
either party being disatisfied with the finding of the said jury,
may appeal as in cases at common law, and the same shall bei
tried and governed by the same rules and regulations as in other1
appeal cases. 0n the trial of said issue, it shall be competent for
the plaintifff to show the amount of indebtedness of the garnisheell
and the val no of the property and effects not surrendered as afore-i
said, and upon final judgment being rendered against. said gar-'
nishee the plaintifff in attachment shall have execution for the]
amount ot'such judgment and cost as at common law.

§322tL 1When the suunntms of garnishment is returnable to a;
Justices‘ Court, the issue tbrmed upon the traverse as aforesaid.i
shall be tried by a jury in the same manner as appeal cases in a
Justices" Court.

.ARTICLE IV.

0F PLEADING AN D DEFENOES.

Sscrrox. lSso'ron.
3221. Declaration to be filed at first terml 3227. Death of pl’ —parties how made.
3222. PlaintiE give defendant notice ac. 3228. Death of deft—parties how made.
3223. Defendant defend at any time, the. 3229. Pleadings amendable, to.
3224. May plead setofl' not due. 3230. Judgment may be set aside.

3225. May traverse truth of plfs athdavit. 3231. Interrogatories may be sued out.
3226. Traverse shall not delay judgment.

§3221. When the attachment has been returned to the proper
court, the subsequent proceedings shall be in all respects the same
as in cases where there is personal service, and when the attachment is returnable to the Superior or Inferior Court, the plaintifff
shall file his declaration at the first term.
§3222. The plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, may give
notice in writing to the defendant of the pendency of such attachment and of the proceedings thereon, which shall be served personally on the defendant by the Sheriff, his deputy or a Constable of the county to which said attachment is returnable, by giving him a copy of said notice, at least ten days before final judgment on said attachment, and returning said original notice with
his service entered thereon to the court in which said attachment
is pending, which being done, the judgment rendered upon such
’attachment shall have the same force and effect as judgments
rendered at common law; and no declaration shall be dismissed because the attachment may have been dismissed or discontinued, but
the plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment on the declaration filed,
as in other cases at common law, upon the merits of the case.
§3223. The defendant may appear by himself or attorney at
law, and make his defense at any time before dual judgment is
yrendered against him, and either party being dissatisfied with the
' verdict that may be rendered in the case may enter an appeal.
§3224. Any defendant against whom an attachment may issue
L for the recovery of a demand which is not due, under the previsions of Section 3197, Article I, may avail himself in his defense
of any set-off pleadable by the laws of this State, notwithstanding
such set-01f may not be due at the time of sueing out such attachment, or at the trial thereof, and if said set-off, so pleaded, shall
l’exeeed the plaintifff ’s demand, the defendant shall have judgment against the plaintifff for such excess as at common law,

with a stay of execution until the time the said set-off so pleaded

shall become due.

$32 25. In all cases of attachment the defendant may traverse]
the truth of the affidavit in relation to the ground upon whichi
the attachment issued, at the return term of the attachment, and
if said attachment is returnable to the Superior or Inferior Court,
the issue formed upon such traverse shall be tried by, a jury at:
the same term, unless good cause is shown for a continuance; and
either party being dissatisfied with the verdict of the jury may,
enter an appeal, and if the final verdict upon such issue, shall be'
in favor of the defendant, said attachment shall be dismissed at
the cost of the plaintifff. And if the attachment is returnable to].
a Justices’ Court, the issue formed upon the traverse aforesaid:
shall be tried by a jury in the same manner as appeal cases in
a Justices’ Court.

§3226. No traverse of the plaintifff’s attachment, affidavit or]
other proceedings of the attachment, shall delay judgment on the;
declaration, where personal service has been perfected, but judgment may be had thereon, subject to the rules of the common law,i
as well before the trial of the issue made on the attachment pro-i
ceedings as afterwards.

§3227. In case either plaintifff or defendant shall die before}
final judgment is rendered in any case, and there is representa-1
tion upon the estate of' the defendant, parties shall be made in the
same manner as in cases where there is personal service. But if
there is no known representation upon the estate of' the defendant,
within this State and the plaintiffi shall die, his executor or administrator may at any time after his qualification as such, cause
to be issueiil by the Clerk of' the Court or Justice of the Peace, at
sec-Ere,fitr'w'rm, returnable to the next term of the court after issu-l
ing the same, giving notice to the opposite party of his intention,
to be Iliade a party in place of' his deceased testator or intestate,
which shall be posted up at the door of the court-house Where
such attachment is pending, at least twenty days before the term
at which such scirc facias is made returnable; and upon affidavit;
being made by the executor or administrator of this beng done,1
and said affidavit being filed among the papers in the case, said
executor or administrator shall, on motion, be made a party and
the same proceed in his name.

§3228. When the defendant shall die sci-re fancies shall issue
in the manner aforesaid after the expiration of twelve months‘

 

from the death of the defendant, directed to the representative
of the deceased defendant, notifying him of the pendency of such
attachment, and of the intention of the plaintifff to proceed with
the same, which being posted as aforesaid, and affidavit made and
filed as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to proceed in
the same manner as though the death of the defendant had not
occurred, but the executor or administrator upon the estate, may,
at any time before iinal judgment upon the attachment, come in
and be made a party and defend in the same manner as his testator or intestate might have done.

§3229. The plaintifff in attachment shall have the right to
amend his attachment or bond or declaration as in other cases at
common law, and the levying oiiicer shall have the right to amend
his return by supplying any omissions or errors, and the court
before which the attachment shall be returned shall have power
to order said amendments.

§ 3230. A judgment in attachment may be set aside in a court
of law upon an issue suggesting fraud or want of consideration,
tendered by a judgment creditor of the defendant in attachment.

§2231. In cases of attachment and garnishment, interrogatories may be sued out and served as provided in other cases.

ARTICLE V.

REPLEVY AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY ATTACHED.

SECTION. .Sacnox.
3232. Defendant may replevy property. l 3234. Perishable property. not rcplevied.
3233. Foreign corporation may replevy.

I

§3232. When an attachment has been levied upon the proper}ty of a defendant, it shall be the duty of the officer levying the
same, to deliver the property so levied upon to the defendant,
upon his giving bond with good security, payable to the plaintifff
in attachment, obligating themselves to pay the plaintifff the
amount of the judgment and costs that he may recover in said
case; in case the property levied upon shall be equal to, or exceed
the amount of the debt sworn to be due, in double the value of
the property levied upon; when the property shall not exceed
the amount of the debt claimed to be due, then in double the
amount of the debt sworn to be due, and the officer taking said
bond shall return the same with said attachment to the court to

which the same is made returnable, and it shall be lawful for the
plaintifff to take judgment against the defendant and his securities.upon said bond for the amount of the judgment he may recover:
in his said attachment case, in the same manner that by this Code‘
judgment may be entered up in case of securities upon appeals.

§3233. When an attachment shall be levied on the property of i
an incorporation not incorporated by the laws of this State, it]
shall be lawful for anylagcnt of such incorporation to relieve the
property levied on, or discharge the summons of garnishment
that may issue, by giving bond to the levyng officer, payable to
the plaintiff, conditioned to pay the amount that may be recovered in said ease : which bond, the levying officer shall return to
the court to which the attachment is made returnable, and judgment may he entered up in like manner against the principal;
and security upon said bond for the amount the plaintiii' may re-l
cover against such corporation.

§3234. \Vhen the defendant fails to replevy the property, and]
the same remains in the hands of the levying oliicer, and is of ai
perishable nature, or liable to deteriorate in value from keeping,
or there is expense attending the keeping of the same, (the same
not being land or negroes,) upon these facts being made plainly
to appear to a Judge of the Superior Court, or two Justices of the
Inferior Court of the county in which the attachment is returnable, where the same is returnable to the Superior or Inferior Court,
or to a Justice of the Peace of the county, where the same is returnafile to a Justices” Court, it. shall be their duty to order asale
of the property. which shall be at. the usual place of holding
Sheriff’s sales of the county where such property may be when
the attachment is returnaliale to the Superior or Inferior Court,
and when the attachment is returnable to a .lustices’ Court at the
usual place of Constable's sales of the district where the property
may be, or at such other place as the Magistrate ordering said
sale may direct: the time and place of holding such sale, shall!
be advertised at. the court-house, and at. two other public placesI
in the county where the same is to take place, at least ten days
before the (lay of sale. And when the attachment is returnable
to a Justices’ Court, it shall be advertised at the court-house door
of the district in which the attachment is returnable, and the
money arising from such sale shall be held by the officer making]
the same, subject to the order of the court to which the attach-i
ment is returnable. ‘

ARTICLE VI.
or CLAIMS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.

Samoa. Samoa.
3235. How interposed and returned. 3238. Suit on forthcoming bond by officer.
3236. Shall be tried as other claims. 3239. Plaintiff vs. claimant for damages.

3237. Claimant, his agent or attorney, «to! 3240. When claim may be interposed.

§3235. When property shall be levied on by virtue of an attachment, and the same is claimed by any person not a party to
such attachment, it shall be the duty of the person claiming the
same, his agent or attorney at law, to make oath before some person authorized by law to administer an oath, that the property
levied on is the property of the claimant, and is not subject to
such attachment according to the best of his knowledge and belief, and said claimant shall give bond with good security, payable
to the plaintifff in attachment, in a sum at least equal to double
the value of the property claimed, to be judged of by the levying
oiiicer, conditioned to pay the plaintifff all damages which the
jury on the trial of the right of property may assess against him;
in case it should be made to appear that such claim was made
for the purpose of delay, and in case the claim is interposed by
,_ the agent or attorney at law of the claimant, such agent or at' torney at law shall have power to sign the name of the claimant
to the bond, and such claimant shall be bound in the same manner as though he had signed it himself. It shall be the duty of
9- such officer taking such affidavit and bond to return the same to
the court to which the attachment is returnable, unless the property levied on should be real estate, in which case it shall be his
duty to return the same to the Superior Court of the county
where the land lies; and if the attachment is returnable to a J ustices’ Court and levied upon slaves, the said aiiidavit and bond
shall be returned to the next Superior Court of the county in
which the attachment was issued.
§3236. If the claim is returned to the Superior or Inferior
Court it shall be tried in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules and regulations as are prescribed by law for the trial
of claims in those courts where the property is levied on by virtue of ordinary executions, and where the claim is returned .to a
Justices’ Court it shall be tried in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules and regulations as are by law prescribed for the
trial of appeal cases in Justices’ Courts.

 

 

§3237. The claimant, his agent or attorney at law, may give'
bond, with good security, payable to the levying officer, in a sum:
equal to double the value of the property claimed, the value to be
judged of by the levying oilicer, conditioned to deliver such property at the time and place of sale, provided the same should be found
subject to the attachment, and upon the delivery of such bond to
the levying officer it shall be his duty to deliver such property'to
the claimant, his agent or attorney at law, and it shall be the
duty of the levying officer to return such bond, together with the
affidavit and claim bond, to the court to which such attachment
is returnable; and when said claim is interposed by the agent or
attorney at law of the claimant, such agent, or attorney at law,
shall have power to sign the name of the claimant to the bond,
who shall be bound thereby, in the same manner as though he
had signed it himself.

§ 3238. Upon the failure of the claimant to deliver such propw
erty, according to the conditions of said bond, the levying officerj
may immediately sue the claimant and. security upon the bond,
and recover the full value of the property claimed, and also all
damages, costs, and charges, that the plaintifff may have sustained in consequence of the failure of the claimant to deliver said
property.

§ 3:239. In cases Where the claimant shall deliver the property, i
and upon selling the same a sufficient amount shall not be raised
to pay the debt and costs of the plaintifff, it shall be lawful fori
the plaintifff to institute suit against the claimant and his securities upon his said bond, and to recover the full value of the hire
or use of the property while the same has been in the possession
of the claimant, and also full damages for any deterioration of
the value of the property, by use or otherwise, While the same
has been in the possession of the claimant, provided such recovery shall not exceed the amount of the debt that may remain due
from the defendant in attachment, to the plaintifff.

§3240. In cases of attachment, 3. claim may be interposed ei-:
ther before or after udgment. <

ARTICLE VII.
or LIEN OF ATTACHMENTS, JUDGMENTS, AND EXECUTION.

Smros. SECTION.
3241. Defendant’s property bound—when 3243. Money raised—how appropriated.
3242. Binds property levied upon only. 1 3244. Lien of attachments, 82c.

 

§3241. When the defendant has given bond and security, as
provided in Sec. 3232 of this Code, or when he has appeared and
made defense, by himself or attorney at law, or when he has been
cited to appear, as provided in Sec. 3222, of this Code, the judgment rendered against him in such case shall bind all his property, and shall have the same force and eiTect as when there has
been personal service, and execution shall issue accordingly, but
it shall be first levied upon the property attached; in all other
.cases the judgment on the attachment shall only bind the prop‘erty attached, and the judgment shall be entered only against
such property.

§3242. After the judgment has been obtained in any case of
attachment, execution shall issue, as in cases at common law,
which execution shall be levied in the same manner as executions
issuing at common law, and the proceedings, in all respects, shall
be the same, except that when the judgment only binds the property levied on by the attachment, as aforesaid, the execution
shall be issued against such property only, and that property only
shall be levied on and sold.

§3243. All money raised by the sale of defendant’s property,
'or otherwise, by virtue of the provisions of this Code, in relation
to attachments, shall be paid over to the creditors of the defendant, according to the priority of the lieu of their judgments,
saving only that as between attaching creditors, the attachment
first levied shall be first satisfied, to the entire exclusion of any
attachment of younger levy.
_ §3244. The lieu of attachment is created by the levy and not
-the judgment on the attachment, and in case of a conflict between attachments, the first levied shall be first satisfied, but in
a contest between attachments and ordinary judgments, or suits,
it is the judgment, and not the levy, which fixes the lien.

CHAPTER III.
PETITION AND PROCESS.

ARTICLE 1. General provisions.
ARTICLE 2. Particular cases.

 

ARTICLE I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sam-10x. {8301103.
3246. Suits—how commenced. ‘ 3253. Entry of Sherin' may be traversed.

3246. Time tiling to beendorsed on wri t., 3254. Defendants residing out of county.
3247. Processto beattached if not waivedi 3255. If no Sheritf or Clerk be elected.
3248. Appearance and pleading, &c.  3256. If process be delivered too late.
3249. If the Judge be dead or disabled.  3257. If the Sheriff is a party.

3250. Process and service may be waived; 3258. Formal defects do not vitiate.
3251. Must be died 20 days before courtl 3259. No special pleadings allowed.
3252. Must be served fifteen days. ‘

§3245. Ordinary suits in the Superior and Inferior Courts shall:
be by petition to the court, signed by the plaintifff or his counsel,
plainly, fully, and distinctly setting forth his charge or demand,
and no want of form shall be cause of delay, if this article is
substantially complied with.

§3246. Upon such petition the Clerk shall endorse the date of
its filing in oiiice, which shall be considered the time of the commencement of the suit.

§ 3247. To such petition the Clerk shall annex a process (unless
the same is waived) signed by the Clerk or his deputy, and hearing
test in the name of a Judge of the court, and directed to the
Sheriff, or his deputy, requiring the appearance of the defendant
at the return term of the court.

§3248. Appearance and pleading shall be a waiver of all ir—
regularities of the process, or of the absence of process, and the
service thereof.

§3249. If the Judge in whose name the process bears test is
dead, or otherwise disqualiiied at the time, the process shall be
good, and amended on motion.

§3250. The defendant may acknowledge service and waive

process, provided the same be in writing, signed by the defendant, or some one authorized by him.

l §325L The original petition shall be deposited in the Clerk’s
Ioiiice, at least twenty days before the term to which it is returnable; and if delivered within the twenty days the Clerk shall make
the same returnable to the next term thereafter.

1 §3252. The Clerk shall deliver the original petition, with process annexed, together with a copy of the petition and process for
each defendant, to the Sheriff, or his deputy, who shall serve such
copy upon each defendant residing in the county, at least fifteen
days before the first day of the term, and within hve days from the
time of receiving the same, and make an entry of such service
upon the original petition, and return the same to the Clerk.
Leaving a copy at the defendant’s residence shall be a sufficient
service. '

. §3253. The entry of the Sheriff, or his deputy, may be tralversed by the defendant at the first term after notice of such entry is had by him, and before pleading to the merits; but this
shall not deprive the defendant of his right of action against the
Sheriff for a false return.

§3254. If any of the defendants reside out of the county, the
Clerk shall issue a second original and copy for such other county
or counties, and forward the same to the Sheriff, who shall serve
the copy and return the second original, with his entry thereon, to
the Clerk of the court from which the same issued.

, §3255. If any county shall refuse or neglect to elect a Sheriff
or Clerk for sixty days after a vacancy shall have occurred, suitors
may apply to any Clerk or Sheriff of an adjoining county, and
have the requisite duty performed by them, and their acts shall
be as valid as if they were officers of such delinquent county.

. §3256. If the process is delivered to the Sheriff, or his deputy,
too late for service within the time specified, he shall return the
same with an entry, stating the truth of the case, and if the defendant cannot be found, and does not reside within the county,
the Sheriff shall make return of the fact in the same manner.

§3257. If the Sheriff is a party to the cause, the process shall
be directed to the Coroner of the county, and to the Sheriff's of
the adjoining counties, and may be served by either as convenience may suggest.

§3258. No technical or formal objections shall invalidate any
petition or process; but if the same substantially conforms to the
requisitions of this Code, and the defendant has had notice of the
pendency of the cause, all other objections shall be disregarded;

 

Provided, there is a legal cause of action set forth as required
by this Code.

§3259. NO special pleadings shall be admitted at law in the 5
Superior or Inferior Courts, and every case shall go to the jury:
and be tried upon the petition, process and answer alone, and no
non-suit shall be awarded when the cause Of action is substanq
tially set forth in the declaration for any formal variance between:
the allegations and the proof.

 

ARTICLE II.
PARTICULAR CASES.

SECTION 1. Against joint and joint and several contractors.
SECTION 2. In ejectment.

SECTION 3. Against corporations.

SECTION 4. Against trustees.

SECTION 5. Against executors, administrators and guardians.
SECTION 6. Particular forms.

SECTION I.
AGAINST JOINT AND JOINT AND SEVERAL CONTRACTORS.

SECTION. SECTION.
3260. Joint contractors, &c. _ 3264. Partnership property, &c.
3261. When a note is signed by two, &c. 3265. If several are sued, &c.
3262. Against co-partners. 3266. A maker and endorser, &c.

3263. When two or more are sued, &c. 3267. Suit on plaintifff’s bond.

§3260. In all cases where a person desires to institute a suit.
upon any bond, note, or other written obligation, subscribed by7
several persons who reside in different counties, such person shall:
have his option to institute his suit in either Of said counties,:
and the process shall be issued, served and returned as provided
in this Code, and on such return the plaintifff may proceed as in
other cases.

§3261. Where any person shall be in possession, (in his own
right, or in any other capacity,) of any note, bill, bond or other
Obligation in writing, signed by two or more persons, and one or
more of the persons, whose names are so signed as aforesaid,
shall die before the payment of the money, or the compliance

on

with the conditions of said bond, or obligation in writing, the
person holding such bill, bond, note, or other obligation in writing, shall not be compelled to sue the survivors alone, but may
at his discretion sue the survivor, or survivors, or the representatives of such deceased person, or persons, or survivor, or survivors, in the same action with the representative, or representatives of such deceased person, or persons; provided nothing herein contained shall authorize the bringing of an action of any
kind, whatever, against the representative, or representatives of
any estate, or estates, until twelve months after the probate of
the will, or the granting of letters of adminstration on such estate, or estates.

§3262. The preceding section shall be so construed as to embrace debts against co-partners, as well as against joint, or joint
and several contractors.
‘ §3263. When two or more joint contractors, or joint and several contractors, or co-partners are sued in the same action, and
service shall be perfected on one or more of said contractors or
co-partners, and the oilicer serving the writ shall return that the
rest are not to be found, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff to proceed to judgment and execution against the defendants
who are served with process in the same manner as if they were
the only or sole defendants, and if either of the defendants die
pending such action, his representative may be made a party, and
the case proceed to judgment and execution as in other cases
against the representatives of deceased persons.

§3264. Judgments so obtained shall bind, and execution may
be levied on the joint or co-partnership property, and also the
individual property, real and personal, of the defendant or defendants who have been served with a copy of the process, but
shall not bind or be levied on the individual property of the defendant or defendants who are not served with a process.

§3265. In all cases against joint obligors or promisors, any
tone or more of the parties may plead infancy; if such plea be
sustained, the action shall not abate, but the court shall award
judgment as in cases of non-suit, in favor of the party or parties so pleading, and permit the plaintifff to proceed against the
other defendant or defendants to said suit, Without further delay
or costs.

§ 3266. In case a maker and eudorser of a promissory note reside in different counties, the same may be sued in the same

 

county where the maker resides, and a copy of the petition and
process served on the endorser residing out of the county inj
which the suit may be commenced, as provided 'in case of joint;
obligors and promisors shall be deemed sumcient service.

§3267. When a person who has been a defendant in attachment desires to sue the plaintifff for damages, and the plaintifff
shall not reside in this-State, it shall be sufficient to serve a copy
of the petition and process on the security to the bond given by
the plaintifff, and said action may proceed against both principal
and security.

 

SECTION II.
IN EJECTMENT.
Scenes. Samoa.

3268. Ejectment for land, &c. 3274. Defendant in ejectment may, the.
3269. Mesne profits count for. . 327 6. Judgment shall be conclusion, Joe.
3270. No separate action for. l 3276. A previous warrantor may be, 850.
3271. Ejectment by one joint owner alone; 3277. The consent rule shall be, tc.
3272. When several claimants, tho. i 3278. Recovery on prior possession.

3273. True claimant how made, M. ;

§3268. In all cases where any person residing in one county
whose plantation or land extends over the line into an adjoining
county, and there is no one upon whom service in an action of
ejectment can be legally perfected in the county where such
land my lie, it shall be lawful for the Clerk of the Superior
Court of the county wherein such land may lie, to issue process
in behalf of the plaintifff against the defendant, which process
shall be directed to the Sheriff of the county wherein such land
may lie, and such Sheriff shall serve the same, and such service
shall be good and valid.

§3269. The plaintifff in ejectment may add a count in his
writ or declaration, and submit evidence to the jury, and recover
by way of damages all such sums of money, to which he may
be entitled by way of meme profits, together with the premises
in dispute. The count for meme profits may be in the name of
the nominal or real plaintifff in the action.
‘ $3270. No plaintifff in ejectment shall have and maintain a
separate action in his behalf for the recovery of means profits
which may have accrued to him from the premises in dispute.

§3271. Any joint tenant, tenant in common, or other person
having a part interest in lands or tenements, may have and
maintain an action of ejectment or trespass for the recovery of
, such lands or tenements, or for an injury thereto, without joining
with him any other person as plaintifff; but the judgment in such
‘case shall not afiect the rights of those interested in such lands or
tenements who are not parties to the suit.
§3272. \Vhen several persons claim several parcels Of land un‘der distinct titles, and do not sustain to each other the relation of
landlord and tenant, a joint action Of ejectment cannot be maintained against them, nor can a joint or several recovery be had in
such action, either for the premises or mesne profits.
§327 3. A plaintifff in ejectment may in all cases make the true
“claimant defendant by serving acopy of the pending action upon
'him, and the person so notified shall be bound by the judgment.
§3274. A defendant in ejectment may at the first term come
in and disclaim any claim of title, or right of possession; and after
such disclaimer is filed, such defendant shall not be liable for any
future cost.
§327 5. A judgment in ejectment shall be conclusive as to the
title between the parties thereto, unless the jury find for the plaintifff, less than the fee.
§327 6. A previous warrantor of the title to the land in dispute
may be a co-defendant in .an action of ejectment, provided he
.would be answerable in damages in case of eviction.
§3277. The consent rule in ejectment shall always be considered as filed, and admits lease, entry and ouster. The iictitious
forms in pleading in ejectment, shall be sufiicient.
§327 8. A plaintifff in ejectment may recover the premises in
Idispute upon his prior possession alone, against one who subsequently acquires possession of the land by mere entry, and Without any lawful right whatever.

 

SECTION III.
AGAINST CORPORATIONS.

Sscrxox. iSEC'I‘ION.
3279. Members of corporations, &c. L 3284. Execution—property subject.
3280. Railroad companies—liability of. l 3285. Presiding officer failing to disclose.
3281. Process vs. corporations. :‘286. President or stockholder defend.

3282. How served by publication.  3287. Illegality to execution kc.

3283. Notices to stockholders. I 3288. Foregoing provisions cumulative.

§ 327 9. In all suits against the members of a private association,
joint stock company, or the members of existing or dissolved corporations, to recover a debt due by the association, company, or
corporation of which they are or have been members, or for the
appropriation of money or funds in their hands to the payment
of such debt, the plaintifff or complainant in such suit may institute the same, and proceed to judgment therein against all or any
one or more of the members of such association, company or corporation or any other person liable, and recover of the member
or members sued, the amount of unpaid stock in his hands, or
other indebtedness of such member, or members, provided the
same does not exceed the amount of the plaintifff’s debt against
such association, company or corporation, and if it exceed such
debt, then so much only as will be suiiicient to satisfy such debt.

§328tl In all cases where the person or property of an individual may be injured, or such property destroyed by the carelessness, negligence or improper conduct of any railroad company,
or oiiirer, agent or employee of such company, in or by the runnining of the cars or engines of the same, such company shall be
liable to pay damages for the same to any one whose property or
person may be so injured or destroyed, notwithstanding any bylaws, rules or regulations, or notice which may be made, passed.
or given by such company, limiting its liability.

§3281. Service of all bills, snbptcnas, writs, attachments and}
other original process necessary to the commencement of any}
suit against any corporation in any court of law or equity, may!
be perfected by serving any officer or agent of such corporation,
or by leaving the same at the place of transacting the usual and
ordinary public business of said corporation, if any such place of
business then shall be within the urisdiction of the court in,
which said suit may be commenced. The oiliccr shall specify:
the mode. of service in his return.

§3282. In all cases where any corporation shall have no pub”
lic place for doing business, or shall have no individual in officei
upon whom service of writs or process may be perfected withim
the knowledge of any party, complainant either in law or equity,
the said complainant may make an aiiidavit, that the said corpo—
ration has no public place of doing business or has no individual
in office upon whom service of writs or process may be perfected
within the knowledge of said complainant and such affidavit
being filed in the Clerk’s office of the court to which the said

writ may be made returnable, the Clerk of the said court shall
issue a citation to the said defendants to be and appear at the
said court to answer the complaint, which citation shall be published once a week for three weeks prior to the court to which
the said complaint may be returnable, in some newspaper published in the county in which suit is brought; if no paperis publish]ished therein, then in the one nearest thereto; and such advertisement shall be deemed and held a service upon such corporation
for all purposes, either in law or equity, and any copy of the newspaper containing said publication shall be received in any of the
courts as sufiicient evidence of such service.

§ 3283. Plaintiffs or complainants within one month after the
institution of any suit or suits at law or equity, against any corporation, joint stock, or manufacturing company, may publish
once a week for four successive weeks in some public gazette of
this State, notice of the commencement of said suit or suits, and
said publication shall operate as notice to each stockholder in
said corporation, joint stock or manufacturing company, for the
purposes hereinafter mentioned. '

$3284. When notice has been given as provided in the preceding sections, and a judgment or decree has been obtained
against any corporation, joint stock or manufacturing company
where the individual or private property of the stockholders is
bound for the whole or any part of the debts of said incorporation, joint stock or manufacturing company, execution shall first
be issued against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of
said corporation, joint stock or manufacturing company, and upon
the return thereof by the proper officer, with the entry thereon of
“ no property to be found,” then and in that case the clerk, or other
officer, upon an application of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney
accompanied with a certificate as hereinafter directed to be
obtained, forthwith shall issue an execution against each of the
stockholders (if required) for their rateable part of the said debt,
and cost of suit, in proportion to their respective shares or other
liabilities under their charter of incorporation.

§3285. It shall be the duty of the President or presiding officer of such incorporation, joint stock or manufacturing company,
by whatever name he may be designated, upon application of the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, forthwith to give a certificate, under oath, of the stockholders in said company, and the number of
shares owned by each at the time of the rendition of judgment

against said company; and if upon application by the plaintifff”
his agent or attorney, the President, or officer aforesaid, shall re-j
fuse to give a certificate aforesaid, or shall abscond or conceal
himself to avoid giving the same, the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, may make oath of such refusal, and the clerk, or other oiiicer, shall issue an execution against such President or presiding
officer, as aforesaid, for the amount of principal, interest and cost
of said suit.

§3286. If the President or other officers of said corporation,
joint stock or manufacturing company, shall fail or refuse to defend said suit or suits brought as aforesaid, any one of the stockholders of the said company shall be permitted to plead to," and
defend the same in as full and ample manner as said company in
its corporate capacity could or might do.

§3287. In a judgment against a corporation, joint stock or
manufacturing company, under the provisions of this Code, the
defendant or defendants, in execution, shall be entitled to an illegality under the same rules, regulations and restrictions as defendants are in other cases.

$3288. The preceeding sections in relation to proceedings
against corporations, joint stock and manufacturing companies,

shall be understood and construed as cumulative of the common
law.

SECTION IV.
AGAINST TRUSTEES.

SECTION. Ssorrorr.

3289. Claim vs. trust estates.  3292. Sued in Justices’ Court—when.

3290. Sued in Superior Court—when. 3293. The trust estateboundby judgment.
329]. Party defendant. , 3294. Execution must specify property.

§3289. Any person having a claim against any trust estate for
services rendered to said estate, or for articles, or property, or
money furnished for the use of said estate, or Where a court of
equity would render said estate liable for the payment of said
claims, may collect and enforce the payment of such claim in a
court of law.

§ 3190. The person having such claim as provided in the previous section, if the same exceeds the sum of fifty dollars, may
file his petition, setting forth the grounds of such claim, and also
how, and in What manner said estate is liable for the payment of

 

said claims, and also setting forth the name or names of the trustees and the 068m”: que trust, which petition shall be filed in the
Oilice (if the Clerk in" the Superior Court. under the same rules
and regulations as. in ordinary cases at. ennnmm law, and the subsequent proceedings shall he, in all respects, the same.

§329L If there is no trustee, or he is a mere naked trustee
and mun-resident. in the county, the warm} 7w frets-f shall he made
the defendant, and the 1'I1'Ut_'t:()('li1]f_]:r% shall he. in all respects, the
same as when the trustee is defendant.

$39.92. When the (‘lflllll does not exceed the sum of titty dollars, suit may he hreught in a. .lustives‘ (‘eurt under the same
rules and regulations as in ordinary suits in these murts, saving
only, that. the slnunninns shall set liil'th how, and in what way said
trust estate is liafile fur the larvi'nent. of said claim: and the judg—
ments remlered in a Justices' Court shall have the same tiirree
and eil'et-t- as is hereinhet'ere lll'("r-'(_'-l‘lllt‘(l in relatitm te judgments
rendered in the Superior Cnurt.

§321l3. The jln.lg:111elit. thus. rendered shall impose I'm personal
lialiiility en the trustee. or in any way reinler his 1nwpertyliafile for
the payment ml" the same; hut said jlule‘mtrnt shall only hind such
trust estate. and exemitimi shall issue :u'ta‘urdintrly.

§32EH. All L_:xe:.'u.tiuns issued upon judgments rendered under
lthe 1'i1':.'n‘isieils ut‘ the live lrret'edina’ sertinns shall specify in the
limfly M the CXOI'llllUll the lirelaerty 111nm which the same is to
be levied, and it shall be levied on no other property.

 

SECTION V.
AGAINST EXECL'TORS, ADMINISTRATORS AND GUARDIANS.

SECTION. SECTION.
3295. Execution returned nulla bona, &.c. 3298. One or more suretios may be sued.
3296. Executor, &c., failingto settle. 3299. Property of princi’l tobe exhausted.
3297. Guardian failing to settle. 3300. Service perfected on execution, 35c.

§3295. Upon the rendition of a judgment in favor of a party
against an executor or administrator upon any liability of the deceased, and a return of nulla bona by the Sheriff or other officer
authorized to make the same, the said party may at once proceed
to sue upon the bond of the executor or administrator, and may
recover judgment against the principal and his sureties in the
same action, and if the principal has removed beyond the limits

of this State, or has departed this life, or has no legal representative, then he may sue the sureties on his bond.

§3296. When any executor or administrator shall fail to settle an account with any distributee or legatee of the estate he
represents, such distributee or legatee may institute his suit upon
the bond of such representative in the first instance, and may recover judgment against the principal and his sureties without a
suit against the executor or administrator in his representative
character.

§ 3297. When any guardian shall fail or refuse to settle an account with his ward upon his coming of age, such ward may institute his suit in the first instance against his guardian and sureties without first sueing his guardian.

§3298. When any executor, administrator or guardian shall
remove from this State, or shall place himself in' such situation
as by the provisions of this Code an attachment would lie against
a debtor, or if such executor, administrator or guardian is dead,
and his estate unrepresented, it shall, and may be lawful, for any
party in interest, or any person having demands against such executor, administrator or guardian in such representative character, to institute his suit against the sureties, or any one or more
of them, upon the bond of such executor, administrator or guardian in the first instance without first obtaining a judgment
against such executor, administrator or guardian in his representative character.

§3299. When judgment shall be obtained against principals
and sureties, as provided in the four preceding sections, the property of the sureties shall not be levied upon until that of the
principal shall be exhausted, which may be evidenced by a return
of nulla bond.

§3300. .In all cases where there are two or more executors or
administrators, and one or more of such executors or administratrators shall remove without the limits of this State, service of
any writ or process upon those remaining in the State shall be as
effectual and complete for all purposes whatever, as though ser.
vice had been made upon all such executors or administrators.

SECTION VI.
PARTICULAR FORMS.

SEOI‘ION. 'Sno'riox.
3301. Form for the recovery of real estate! 3307. For words.
3302. For recovery of personal property. 3308. All suits for slander, &C.

3303. For recovery on a note, «to. 3 3309. May accompany the words, Jtc
3304. For recovery on open account. I 3310. Forms apply against executors, kc.
3305. Form of an action on a judgment. 3311. Actions heretofore commenced.
3306. For breach of warranty. , 3312. Abstract of title.

§330L The form of a declaration for the recovery of real estate and meme profits may be as follows, to wit:

GEORGIA, l
County. f

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is in
possession of a certain tract of land in said county, (here describe the land) to which your petitioner claims title; that the
said O. D. has received the profits of said land since the
day of 18 , of the yearly value of dollars, and refuses to deliver said land to your petitioner, or to pay him the
profits thereof, wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue
requiring the said C. D. to be and appear at the next Superior

Court to be held in and for said county, to answer your petitioners complaint.

§3302. The form of a declaration for the recovery of personal
prOperty may be as follows, to wit:

GEORGIA, l
County. f

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D. of said county is in
possession of a certain (here describe the property) of the value
of dollars, to which your petitioner claims title; that the
said O. D. refuses to deliver said to your petitioner, or to
pay him the profits thereof; wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said O. D. to be and appear at the
next Court to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

1n suits brought under this form the verdict and judgments
may be the same as in actions of trover.

§ 3303. The form of an action to recover money on a note, bill,
bond, receipt, or written promise of any description, by adding a
copy of which, with the endorser’s name, (if any) and the credits
thereon; and when the action is on a'bond, the breach from which

To the Superior Court of said county:

To the Court of said county.

arises the right of action shall be set out plainly, may be as follows, to wit:

GEORGlAacounty. } To the Court of said county.

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D. of said county is indebted to him in the sum of dollars, besides interest, on a
, dated , and due , which said C. D. refuses to
pay; wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue, requiring the said C. D. to be and appear at the next' Court for
said county, to answer your petitioner’s complaint.
§3304. The form of an action on an account maybe as follows,3
to wit: «

GEORGIAéounty } To the Court of said county.
The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D. of said county is indebted to your petitioner dollars, on an account, as will

fully appear by reference to a bill of particulars hereto annexed,
which account the said C. D. refuses to pay; wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue' requiring the said C. D. to be
and appear at the next Court to answer your petitioner’s
complaint.

$3305. The form of an action to recover money on a judg-:
ment may be as follows, to wit:

GEomméounty. } To the Court of said county.

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, is
indebted to your petitioner the sum of dollars, besides interest, on a judgment obtained by your petitioner against the
said C. D. at a (name the court) held on the day of
18 , in the (county, district, or town) of , in the State of

, as will fully appear by reference to an exemplification of
the proceedings in said case; that the said judgment is unsatisfied, and that the said C. D. neglects to pay the same; wherefore
your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said C. D.
to be and appear at the next Court to be held for the county of , then and there to answer the plaintiE’s complaint.

§3306. The form of an action for a breach of warranty in a3
deed may be as follows, to wit:

GEORGIA,
County. } To the

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D. of said county is inCourt of said county.

debted to him in the sum of dollars for this, that on the

of 18 , the said C. D. executed to your petitioner a
warrantee deed to a certain tract of land (here describe the land)
for the sum of dollars, paid by your petitioner to the said

C. D.; that your petitioner has been evicted from said lot of
land, and that the said C. D. refuses to indemnify your petitioner
for his damages in that behalf; wherefore your petitioner prays
process may issue requiring the said C. D. to be and appear at
the next Court for said county, to answer yourpetitioner’s
complaint.

1 §3307. The form of an action for words may be as follows, to
wit:
9E0M‘Aéoumy. } To the honorable Court of said county.

The petition of A. B. showeth that C. D., of said county, has
injured and damaged your petitioner in the sum of dollars
by falsely and maliciously saying of and concerning your petit’ioner, on the day of , 18 , the following false and
malicious words, to wit: ; wherefore your petioner prays
process may assue requiring the said O. D. to be and appear at
the next Court to be held in and for said county, then and
there to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

I §3308. All suits for slander may be prosecuted under the last
preceding form of action, and the writ or complaint shall be
deemed and held squiciently technical and full, if it follows such
form without material variation; everything else material for the
maintenance of the action may be supplied by proof.

§ 3309. When the last preceding form of action is adopted the
plaintifff may accompany the words set forth by such explanatory
inuendoes as will serve to state the cause of action distinctly.

§3310. The forms of action hereinbefore prescribed may be
used in cases for or against executors, administrators, and other
trustees.

§3311. In all actions which have been heretofore, or may be

Lhereafter commenced in the forms prescribed by this Code, the
evidence admissible, and the form of the verdict shall be the
same as though said actions had been commenced and prosecuted
under the forms existing and in use by the common law.

§3312. To the declaration prescribed by this Code for the recovery of land and mesne profits, the plaintifff shall ‘annex an
abstract of the title, relied on for such recovery.

CHAPTER IV.
OF THE VENUE.

Sscnox. SECTION.
3313. Civil cases at law—{where tried. 3317. Against railroad companies.
33 14. Land suits—where tried. 3318. Against non-residents.
3315. Suits against co-obligors, &c. 3319. Scire fam’as against bail.

3316. Against makers and endorsers.

§3313. All civil cases in law, (except as hereinafter provided,)
shall be tried in the county wherein the defendant resides. .

§3314. All suits respecting the title to lands shall be tried in
the Superior Court of the county wherein the land lies.

§3315. Joint, or joint and several obligors or promissors, or
joint contractors or co-partners, residing in different counties,
may be'sued as such in the same action in either county in
which one or more of the defendants reside.

§3316. When a maker and endorser of a promissory note reside in different counties, they may all be sued in the same action in the county where the maker resides.

§3317. All railroad companies shall be liable to be sued in
any county in which the cause of action originated by any one
whose person or property has been injured by such railroad
company, their officers, agent or employees, in or by the running
of the cars or engines, for the purpose of recovering damages
for such injury. And also on all contracts to be performed in
the county where suit is brought.

§3318. A citizen of another State, passing through this State,
may be sued in any county thereof in which he may happen to
be at the time when sued.

$3319. Scire few/[as against bail must issue from, and be returnable to the court in which the original judgment was obtained. '

CHAPTER V.
BAIL IN CIVIL CASES.

ARTICLE 1. Bail at the commencement of an action.

ARTICLE 2. Bail pendente lite.
ARTICLE 3. Proceedings against bail.
ARTICLE 4. Bail in trover.

 

ARTICLE I.
BAIL AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF AN ACTION.
SECTION. Smrox.
3320. Bail affidavit. . 3329. When Sherin‘ is special bail.
3321. Before whom made. , 3330. Defendant failing to give bail.

3322. Bail for debts not due. I 3331. Bail against itinerants.

3323. Cause of action. 3332. Security for jail fees.

3324. Surety may require bail. 3333. Jail fees payable weekly.

3325. Bail in suits a: delicto. 3334. Notice to plamtitl‘.

3326. Order therefore. 3335. New bail—when taken.

3327. Contents of affidavit. I 3336. Service of process on Sabbath.
3328. Execution of bail process. I 3337. Widows. Joe, exempt from arrest.

§3320. In all cases where bail is requirable, and is required
by the plaintifff, except as hereinafter provided, such plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, shall make afHdavit of the amount claimed
by him, and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of said
sum, or some part thereof, by reason of the fraud of the defendant, or his non-residence, if the defendant is not held to bail,
which aHidavit shall be filed in the Clerk’s office, and cOpies
thereof afIixed to the original petition and process, and to the
copy tlfereof, and the amount sworn to shall be endorsed on the
said petition and process. ‘

§3321. An affidavit to obtain bail may be made before any
Judge of the Superior, or Justice of the Inferior Court, Justice
of the Peace, Clerk of the Superior or Inferior Court, Ordinary
or Notary Public of this State, or before any commissioner duly
appointed for this State, resident in any other State or Territory
of the Confederate States, or before any Judge or Justice of a
Superior Court of any one of the Confederate States, and shall
have annexed thereto the seal of the State from which it shall
have come, and a certificate of the Governor of such State certitlving that the person takingr Hh‘ll ntiidavit is one of the Judges
or Justices nt' :1 Snpei'im' (lunrt. of that State.

§Iliif§i “'ht‘n the tlt’l)l is not 41110, :‘nnl the ('l'ljt'litul', his agent‘
or :Lttt'il‘nté}; shall make allitlavit oil the amount of the (leht tel
become (luv. and that the tlohtnr is shout. to remove. or is moving without. the limits. of this State. :nnl that he has reason to
appl‘eln.*1nl the loss of saitl :lvht, or saline part thervnt', it' the
t'lt‘3l'ltnl' is nut ln-ltl tn hail. the l'l'l‘tllllii' may t'unlnnenc't- an action
«11' suit at law. and hold sin-h l'lL.‘lliHl' to hail nneh-r the same rep;nlatinns as are prusvrilwtl in the l'il'L'(‘(‘lllll,‘_’; sections. and the hail.
so taken shall in lllit‘ manner he. linfile to the ('I‘mlitcn‘. lmt jntlg—r
ment shall not he rendered in any such ruse, until after the (leht
shall l'act'unn' (luv.

§ Eli-1:23. It. shall not he nm-vssary in an :lillelHVll tn ohtain hail
in set. forth nl‘ «lest'l'ilw tln) ('zlnse Hi. :Lt'tinn. ul' ('llnl'nut'm' (at. the
(hf-ht.

§332~L When a set-lli'ity ur mnlurst-l' shall make an {llllllil\'li
that he is security or entlorsm' upon any promissory note. single
hill, tlllt) hill or lnnnl, and that ln.-.:11nprt-hontls that tln: payment.
of said debt, or some part thereof, will devolve upon himself if
the principal is not held to bail, and presents said affidavit to
the owner of said note, single bill, due bill or bond, his agent or
attorney, it shall be the duty of such owner to commence suit
forthwith, and such affidavit shall take the place of the one now
required of the plaintifff, upon which bail process shall issue, and
all other proceedings shall be the same as are now authorized in
other cases of bail, and if the owner of such note, single bill,
due bill or bond, fail to sue as hereinbefore prescribed, such security or endorser shall no longer be held liable for the same.

§3325. In all cases sounding in damages in which bail may
be required, the Judge of the Superior Court may, on an affidavit as hereinbefore prescribed, grant an order requiring hail of
the defendant in such amount as he may think proper.

§3326. Any Justice of the Inferior Court may grant an order
to hold to bail in all cases an (lelicto for the recovery of damages,
whether the case shall be made returnable either to the Superior
or Inferior Court of the county in which such Justice may reside,
and said order, when so granted, shall have the same force and
effect as if granted by a Judge of the Superior Court.

§3327. In bail cases sounding in damages the sum sworn to

need not be endorsed upon the back of the writ, nor is it necessary

that the afiiant should swear to any particular sum as damages,
{but must state the facts as to the nature and extent of the injury
which he has sustained;_ but it is no objection that the sum for
which the Sheriff is directed to take bail differs from that claimed
in the declaration.

§3328. When any bail process shall issue out of any of the
said courts, whereby bail shall be required of any person to answer any action, in any of said courts, the Sheriff or other arresting officer shall take a bond, payable to the plaintifff with one or
more sufficient securities, for double the sum sworn to, and shall
return such bond with the petition and process to the court to
which it is made returnable.

§3329. In case the Sheriff or other officer shall fail to take
bail as required by the preceding section, or the bail taken shall
be deemed insufficient by the court, on exceptions taken thereto,
and an entry made thereof at the first term to which the said petition and process shall be returned, such Sheriff or other officer,
and his securities in either case, shall be deemed and stand as special bail, and the plaintifff may proceed to judgment according to
the provisions hereinafter mentioned.

§3330. In all cases where any defendant of whom bail shall
be required shall fail to give good and suthcient bail, it shall be
the duty of the Sheriff or other officer making the arrest, to commit such defendant to the common jail of the county, or if there
shall be no jail in the county, or the same shall be insufficient, the
said Sheriff, or other arresting officer, shall convey such defendant to the jail of any adjoining county, and deliver such defendant to the keeper of said jail, but such person so arrested and
committed to jail shall be allowed all the benefits of appearance
and defense, as if he were personally present; and shall not be
discharged out of custody but by putting in bail, or by order of
court.

§3331. \Vhen a bail process is placed in the hands of a Sheriff or his deputy, and the person against whom such process may
be, is moving about from one county to another, the said Sheriff
or deputy may follow the said person into any county in this
State, and serve such process.

§3332. In all cases where a defendant shall be arrested by
'virtue of any civil process, at the suit of any person residing out
of the county or State, or where the arresting officer, for the
want of a suflicieut jail in the county shall convey such defen 

dant to the jail of an adjoining county, as provided in the preceding section, the keeper of such jail shall receive such defendant
into his custody, and him safely keep until he is discharged
from thence according to law, or by the direction of the plaintifff;
provided that the plaintifff, his agent or attorney shall give bond,
with suilicient security, to the keeper of such jail, or deposit the
money for the maintenance and jail fees of the defendant, to be
paid weekly. .

$3333. If any person be imprisoned in the common jail of any
county in this State on mesne or final process for debt and the
plaintifff in suit or execution, his agent or attorney shall fail to
pay up at the end of each and every week the jail fees which
have accrued, then the Inferior Court may discharge the defendant by writ of habeas coma on the application of the jailor.

$3334. When any debtor after giving bail or security on any
mesne or final process, shall be surrendered by his bail or security,
and committed by the Sheriff to jail, it shall not be lawful for any
court to discharge such debtor from custody for the non-payment
or security of the jail fees, unless the Sheriff or jailor shall have
given at least ten days’ prior notice in Writing, to the plaintifff or
his attorney, who shall be allowed that time within which to pay
or give security for the jail fees, and thereby prevent such
discharge.

§3335. Where the bail shall surrender his principal either in
open court or in vacation, to the Sheriff of the county in which
such principal may reside, and before the principal has been arrested by a capias ad satisfaciendum, it shall be the duty of such
'Sheriii' to take new bail, if the bail offered is good for the forthcoming of the principal to be arrested with a capias ad wtz'qfaciendum in said case, and in default thereof to pay the debt and
costs.

§3336. Bail process may be issued and served on the Sabbath,
day and in the same manner, and under the same rules, regula-i
tions, and restrictions as are provided for the issuing and serving
the same on other s, provided the person applying for such
bail process, shall i ddition to the oath heretofore required to
be taken, swear that e apprehends the loss of the debt or some
part thereof, unless said bail process shall issue on the Sabbath
day.

§3337. N o widow or fame sole shall be arrested, imprisoned

or in any manner restrained or deprived of her liberty for or on
account of any debt or demand against her.

ARTICLE II.
BAIL PENDENTE LITE.

Sacriox. {Saunas
.3338. Bail pendentc lite—affidavit. 5 3341. Defendant—how dealt with.
3339. Process-how issued and executed.i 3342. Liability of bail.
3340. Sheriff’s duty as to process. I 3343. No delay—service of process.

$3338. In all cases where an action is pending, and no bail
shall have been required at the commencement of said action, or
having been required, may have been discharged, and the plaintifff, his agent or attorney shall require bail, such plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, shall make aiiidavit as prescribed in see. 3320,
which aiiidavit shall be filed in the Clerk’s office of the court in
which such action is pending, and a copy or copies thereof affixed to the process to be issued by the Clerk of said court in which
such suit may be pending, and to the copy or copies of such process, and the amount sworn to shall be endorsed on such process,
and the copy or copies thereof.

§3339. When an affidavit is made as provided in the preceding section, and filed in the Clerk’s office of the court in which
such suit is pending, the Clerk thereof shall immediately issue a
process inthe case with as many copies as there are defendants,
annexing a copy of such affidavit to said process and copy process, which process shall be made returnable to the next term of
said court after the issuing of the same, and shall be executed
and returned into court by the Sheriff, or other proper oilicer,
and when so executed and returned, shall be taken and considered a part of the record in said case.

$3340. When the said process and copy affidavit, and copy process shall issue as aforesaid, they shall bedelivered to the Sheriff, or
proper oilicer, whose duty it shall be to execute the same at any
time before the sitting of the court to which the said process may
be returnable, under the same directions and provisions as pointed out in section 3328.
, $3341. Any defendant when arrested by virtue of said process
shall be dealt with by the officer arresting him in the same manner as would have been done had such defendant been arrmted

at the commencement of said action on bail process, and may be
diaeharged in the same manner and not. otherwise.

353342. All hail taken pending the action shall he held and 1.
hound. and liable in the same manner as he would have been had ihe lieemne hail at the eonnneneement of the action, and the
plaintitl' in said action ahall he :1utlnn*ize<:l to proceed in the same
manner agaimt the detemhmt and hail, or either of them. as provided in i'ases ot' hail at the vein:neneetnent of the action.

$3343. A t‘let'endant so held to bail pent'ling an aetirm shall]
not. on :n-t-ount thereof', he entitled to any delay or continuance,"
but the ease shall proceed to trial as tlmngh hail. had been re—1
quired and taken at the emuIueneement ot' the ease, and when
there are. more det'entlz'mts than one in such suit. Route of when:
reside out of the trounty in which such suit is pending, a second
original process, and copy or eopies may issue, returnable to the
murt in whieh aueh suit. or mition is pending. which when served;j
hy the Sheritlj' or other proper otiieer of the county where such'
defendant or defendants reside, the said defendant or defendants
shall he subject and liable to the same provisions as they would
have been had the hail }'n'rwe.~es issued at the (ft.rllllllCIerIllellt oi"
the action.

ARTICLE III.

PROCE EDIN GS AGAINST BAI L.

Samoa. 'Sac'riox.
3344. Nature of bail. 3348. Against whom it may issue.
3846. Enforcement of bail’s liability. 3349. When it may be returned.
3346. Surrender of principal. 3350. Judgment on scire facias.

3347. Scire facials—how directed, 8w.

§3344. All bail taken according to the provisions of this Code,l
shall be deemed, held and taken as special bail, and as such be
liable to the recovery of the plaintiii'.

§3345. The plaintifff, after final judgment, shall not take out.

execution against the bail until a  ad .9wa shall:
be that issued thereon, and the principal cannot be found, which'
process shall issue without any additional oath by the plaintifff.
After its return with an entry of “ not to be found,” a wire
may issue against the bail, which shall be served on the bail at‘
 twenty days betbre. the return thereof. If the bail resides

out of the county or State, satire facias may be served by publi’
cation as prescribed in cases of wire facias to make parties.

§3346. The bail may surrender his principal at any time belfore iinal judgment on 8027. fa., either in open court or to the
Sheriff of the county in which such principal may reside, at any
time in vacation, and if snrrended in open court, it shall be the
duty of the court to order such principal into the custody of the
Sheriff, and if surrendered in vacation, it shall be the duty of
the Sheriff to receive such principal into his custody, and in
either event to commit him to jail according to the directions of
this Code.

§3347. All writs of scire facias shall be directed to all and
singular the Sheriffs of the State of Georgia, and copies thereof
issued by the Clerk of the court to which said wire  is returnable, and may be served by the Sheriff of the county in
which the party to be notified may reside, and the original re
turned to the oflicc of the Clerk.

§3348. A wire facz'as on a bail bond may issue against the
bail alone, or against the principal and hail jointly, and if the
Sheriff return non est inventus as to the principal, the plaintifff
may enter up judgment against the bail.

§3349. For the purpose of fixing hail the ca. act. against the
principal may be returned as soon as the Sheriff or other officer
has made due search. .

§3350. In sca’re facias against bail, if no plea shall be filed,
judgment may be rendered upon motion at the return term without thc intervention of a jury; but if such bail file an issuable
plea, he shall be entitled to a trial by a jury.

 

ARTICLE IV.
BAIL 1N ACTIONS FOR PERSONAL’I‘Y.
Samoa. {Samoan
3351. Bail in tmver. ; 3353 Bail pending the suit, &c.

3352. Amdavit and proceedings.

§ 3351. Where any person who is about to commence an action
or suit at law, or in equity, for the recovery of negroes or other
personal property, shall require bail, such person, his agent or

attorney, shall make aiiidavit that the property is in the possession, custody or control of the defendant, and that he has reason

 

to apprehend that the said negroes, or other personal property
have been or will be eloigned or removed away, or will not be
forthcoming to answer the judgment, execution or decree that
shall be made in the case; and shall also state in his affidavit the
value of the same, and the amount of hire claimed, if any, and
add that he does verily and bona jicle claim said negroes or other
personal property, or some valuable interest therein.

§3352. When such affidavit is made as prescribed in the preceding section, it shall be filed in the Clerk’s office of the court
to which said petition, hill, or other process may be returnable,
and a copy thereof affixed to the original petition. bill or process,
and to the copy or copies thereof, and it shall be the duty of the
Sheriff, or other lawful officer serving such petition, bill or other
process, to take a recognizance payable to the plaintifff or complainant, with good security in double the amount sworn to, for the
forthcoming of such negroes or other personal property, to an—
swer such judgment, execution or decree as may be rendered or
issued in the case, and such security shall be bound for the payment of the eventual condemnation money, and liable to execution in the same manner as securities upon appeals.

§3353. When such affidavit shall be made during the penden-J
cy of such suit or action, a copy thereof, and of the process or1
subpoena, shall be served in like manner by the Sherih' or other
lawful officer, and security taken as required in the preceding
section, and upon the defendant failing to give such security,
whether the affidavit be made at the commencement of the suit]
or pending the same, the property shall be seized and taken by:
the Sheriff, or other lawful officer, and delivered over to the
plaintifff or complainant, his agent or attorney, upon his entering
into like recognizance with security, and if such property is not
to be found, and cannot be seized and taken by such Sheriff or
other lawful officer, the defendant shall he committed to jail, to
be kept in safe and close custody until the said negroes or other I
personal property shall be produced, or until he shall enter into
bond with good security for the eventual condemnation money in
the nature of security upon appeals.

CHAPTER VI.
or MAKING PARTIES PENDING ACTION.

SECTION. fSwriox.
3354. Parties made on motion.  3363. How issued and served.
3355. When defendant dies. 1 3364. Service in different counties.
3356. When executors, &c., die. - 3365. “rhen non-resident dies.

3357. How made in claim cases.
3358. Appeal when party dies.

3366. When female marries.
3367. When both parties die.

3359. Appeal revives action. 3368. on death of uses.
3360. When garnishee dies. 3369, successor of trustee.
3361- “men execumry &C- is remOVed- i 3370. Execution 738. female defendant.

362. Contents of wire facias. 

§3354. When a plaintifff or complainant in any cause now or
hereafter pending, shall die, the executor or administrator of such
plaintifff or complainant, may be made parties on motion to be
made in writing, of which the defendants or their counsel shall
have notice.

§3355. In ease the defendant shall die pending asuit at law or
in equity, the plaintifff may sue out a wire  immediately
after the expiration of twelve months from the probate of the will
or granting of letters of administration, requiring such executor
or administrator to appear and answer to the said cause.

§ 3356. Upon the death of any executor, administrator or guardian, or upon the revocation of his letters testamentary, of administration, or guardianship as the case may be, pending suite
at law or in equity by or against such executor, administrator or
guardian as such, and such death or removal being suggested of
record, a sci/re  may issue to make the successors of such
deceased or removed person a party at any time after his appoint—
ment and qualification, instead of the deceased or removed executor, administrator or guardian.

§3357. In all cases where a claim shall be interposed to property levied upon by virtue of a Ji'er’i facias or attachment from
any of the courts of this State, in favor of one or more persons,
and pending such claim' one of the plaintifffs shall die, the case
shall proceed in the name of the survivor, and on the death of the
last or only plaintifff, the executor or administrator of such deceased
may, on motion, be made a party instanter, and said case shall
proceed without further delay.

§3358. When either the plaintifff or defendant shall depart
this life pending a trial, or after a cause has been tried, and before the expiration of the time within which such party, if living,
might enter an appeal, and no appeal shall have been entered,
the legal representatives of such party dying may enter an appeal within thirty days from the time such executor or administrator shall have been qualified. 'And if such appeal is not entered within the time herein prescribed, judgment may be entered and execution issued as though the deceased party was in life,
without making the representative a party.

§3359. \Vhen an appeal shall be entered as provided in the
preceding section, it shall not be necessary to revive such suit by
sci-re facials, but it shall be revived by the party appealing giving notice to the adverse party within thirty days from the time
of entering such appeal, and when a defendant shall appeal, said
cause shall stand for trial on the appeal docket at the first term
of the court after the expiration oftwelve months from the qualification of such executor or administrator.

§3360. When any person after being summoned as garnishee
shall die, either before or after answer, the executor or administrator of such person shall be made a party by scire facials in the
usual way.

§ 3361. In case of the death or removal from ottice of any such
executor or administrator pending such proceeding as prescribed
in the preceding sections, any administrator de bonis non may
be made a party in like manner.

§ 3362. All writs of sci/'6 fag-fax for the purpose of making
parties to any suit at law or in equity pending in the Superior
Courts or Inferior Courts of this State, shall be issued by the
Clerk of said court, in which it shall be sufficient for such Clerk
to state the names of the parties, the term of the court to which
said cause was made returnable, and the name of the suit or 30tion, requiring the party to show cause why he should not be
made a party to said cause, without setting forth the substance of
the bill, or declaration, or the proceedings thereon.

§3363. All writs of scircjlzcias to make parties shall be issued,
directed, and served, and returned as provided in sections 32-17
and 3252.

§336~L In cases where there are several parties to be served
with wire facias, and any one or more of them reside out of the
State or county in which the suit is pending, a service upon those
residing in the county where the suit is, and a return that the
others are not to be found, shall be suflicieut to authorize the

making of the representatives of the deceased plaintiff or defendant parties, so as to authorize the original suit, in the name of
the parties so made, to proceed to trial and judgment, as though
all such parties had been served with wire 

§ 3365. In all cases where a defendant duly served with process,

a or subpoena in any case at law or equity, shall reside out 'of 
State, or shall remove therefrom during the pendency of said
cause, and the plaintifff or complainant shall die, his legal representatives shall be made parties on motion and without notice.

' §3366. When a fame sole, being plaintifff or defendant, shall

fmarry pending any suit at law, or in equity, the same shall not
abate by reason of such intermarriage, but the same being suggested of record, such cause shall proceed in the name of the husband and wife, either as plaintifffs or defendants as the case may
be.

§3367. When both plaintifff and defendant die, before a scare
facias issues to make parties, the action does not abate, but wire ‘
facials may issue on the motion of the representative of either
party against the representative of the other, and the cause
proceed.

§3368. On the death of the usee his representatives must be

'made parties as hereinbefore provided, before the cause can proceed, even in a claim case.

§3369. On the death of a trustee or receiver pending a suit to
which he maybe a party as such, the same does not abate, but
his successor may be made a party thereto by wire facias and
said cause proceed to judgment.

§3370. On the death or marriage of a female defendant after
final udgment, when no execution has been issued previous
to such death or marriage, execution may issue as though such
marriage or death had not taken place.

 

CHAPTER VII.
ABATEMENT, RETRAXIT, DISMISSAL AND RENEWAL or Acnons

SECTION. ’Sscnox.
3371. Suits not abated by death. 3376. Suits against Sheriff survlve.
3372. Nor removal of executor. 3377. Death may be suggested.
3373. Her death of one administrator. j 3378. Retraxit defined.
3374. Nor of co-defendant.  3379. Differs from dismissal, M,

3375. Nor when some are not liable. § 3380. Suits may be dismissed.

l

§8371. No suit shall abate by the death of either party, where,
such cause of action will in any case survive to or against the legal'
representatives of the clot-eased party, either in the same or any
other il‘ll'ln Hi. action.

$33372. \Vhen letters tvstmmntary may he l’LfVulx'Ctl, and an in—
testary for any (sansre clcrlarwl, Iln suit hr 111' against the l'enmvcd
executor, shall abate, and the newly ammintml :nhninistratnr van
he made a party plaintitl'nr defendant in his stead.

$129233}. An artinn against two joint. :uhninistratm's or exm'utors
does nut ahatu by the death of one. hut lawn-reds against. the sur—
vivnr.

3311337}. Un thur dlvath 01' a (‘tJ-tlUll‘lltlillll in an :wtion ut' ejectnmnt. lll:l(l(.’ Flltfll alter the mnnnmnt-mnent tlnn'cnt', the :u'tiun
niayl:1'ur-Lwl against tlw surviving defendant without. making the
representatiwr of the (_l("('1*:'l:-'«l"._l m'n-(h'rt‘clltlnnt :1 party.

$13373. .\n :u-tiun against H'Yl‘l'lil persons clues not.:-tlj>ate\\'lnr1'0
it appears that some of the defendants are not liable, but may
proceed against those who are liable.

§337 6. An action against a Sheriff for an escape out of process shall not abate on the death of such Sheriii', but shall survive against his securities and legal representatives.

§337 7. In all cases which have been, or may be commenced
in any of the courts of this State, at law or in equity, against
two or more defendants, one or more of whom have died, or may
die pending said case or cases, it shall and may be lawful for the
plaintifff or complainants to suggest said death of record, and to
proceed in the trial of said case, or cases, against the surviving
defendant, to the extent of their respective liabilities.

§3378. A retraxit is the open, public, and voluntary renunciation by the plaintifff, in open court, of his suit or cause of action;
and if this is done by the plaintifff, and a judgment entered up
thereon by the defendant, the plaintifff’s right of action is tbrever
gone. I

$3379. A retraxit differs from a non-suit, dismission, or discontinuance in this: a retraxit is positive and conclusive of the
plaintifff ’3 right of action, while a non-suit, dismission, or discontinuance, is negative, and the plaintifff may re-commence his suit
on the payment of costs.

§3380. The plaintifff, in any action, in any court, may dismiss.
his action either in vacation or term time, and if done in term1
time the Clerk or Justice shall enter such dismissal on the docket.

TITLE III.
or DEFENCES AND PROCEEDINGS PENDING ACTION.

CHAPTER 1. Of defenses, pleas, &c.
CHAPTER 2. Of amendments.

CHAPTER 3. Of the production of papers.
CHAPTER 4. Of continuances.

CHAPTER 5. Of garnishments.

CHAPTER I.
DEFENCES, PLEAS, so.

ARTICLE 1. General provisions.
ARTICLE 2.- Particular pleas.

ARTICLE I.
HENERAL PROVISIONS.

Samoa. [Samoa
338]. Answer at tlrst term. » 8385. Dilatory pleas must be sworn to.
3382. No part to be stricken out.  3386. Judgment by default.
3383. Bonds, &c., denied only on oath. A 3387. General issue—special pleas.
3384. Petition and answer make issues. I 3388. Patent defects.

§3381. In all cases at law where the defendant has been serv‘ed with petition and process, as provided by this Code, he shall
appear at the court to which such process is made returnable, and
on or before the last day of said court, shall make his defense in
writing, which shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth his defense, and be signed by the defendant or his attorney, which said
answer shall contain as many several matters as such defendant
may think necessary for his defense.
§3382. No part of an answer shall be stricken out or rejected
fon accout of being contradictory to another part of the same, but
the court shall suffer the whole answer to remain, if the defendant should desire it, and avail himself of any advantage he can
or may have under either or the whole of said answer, and pro—
ceed to trial accordingly.

§3383. N 0 person shall, in his plea or answer, be permitted todeny any deed, bill, single or penal bond, note, draft, receipt, order, or other instrument in writing, which is the foundation of
the action, unless he shall make aHidavit of the truth of such
plea or answer at the time of iiling the same.

§3384. The petition and answer shall be sufficient to carry the
cause to the jury without any replication or other course of proceeding.

§ 3385. No dilatory answer shall be received or admitted, un—
less an affidavit be made to the truth thereof, and must be filed
at the first term. .

§3386. When any defendant shall fail to appear and answer
at the return term of the petition and process, the court shall enter default upon the docket, which shall be considered a judgment by default, without a formal entry thereof, and the plaintifff’s claim, allegation, or demand, shall be tried, in all cases of
default, by a jury, but no such trial shall, in any case, be had at
the first term, except specially provided for by law.

$3387. The general issue is a denial of the allegations in the
plaintiE’s declaration, and shall be considered as filed, in all cases which are answered to at the first term, and no other evidence
is admissible under such plea, except such as disproves the plain—
tiif’s cause of action; all other matters, in satisfaction or avoid—
ance, must be specially pleaded.

$3388. All defects which appear on the face of the pleadings,
may be taken advantage of by motion.

ARTICLE II.
PARTICULAR PLBAB.

SECTION 1. To the jurisdiction.
SECTION 2. Of set-Off.

SECTION 3. Of usury.
SECTION 4. Of failure of consideration.

SECTION 5. Of non est 
SECTION 6. Of other pleas.

SECTION I.
TO THE JURISDICTION.
Slam-ION. SECTION.
3389. Jurisdiction not given by consent. 3392. Contents of the plea.
3390. When admitted. 3393. Must be sworn to.

3391. Pleas to the jurisdiction.

§3389. Parties, by consent, express or implied, cannot give
jurisdiction to the court as to the person or subject matter of the
suit; it may, however, be waived, so far as the rights of the parties are concerned, but not so as to prejudice third person.

§ 3390. If a defendant appear and plead to the merits, without
pleading to the jurisdiction, and without excepting thereto, he
thereby admits the urisdiction of the court.

§3391. Pleas to the jurisdiction must he pleaded in person,
and must, when relied on, he pleaded specially, unless a want of
jurisdiction appears on the face of the proceedings, in which case
it may be taken advantage of on motion.

§3392. In all pleas to the jurisdiction of the court, it must
appear that there is another court in this State which has jurisdiction of the case.

§3393. A plea. to the jurisdiction, being a dilatory plea, must
be sworn to.

SECTION II.

OF BET-OFF.
MON. Smox.
3394. Pleas of set-off. 3397. Set-06‘ of improvements.
3396. Sets-OE against estates. 3398. Judgment for excess of set-OE.
3896. Judgments may be set-oil: 3399. Limitations of set-off.

§3394. Debts, as a general rule, must be mutual between the:
same parties at the commencement of the action to be set off
against each other; every plea of set-01f must set out the demand
as plainly as if sued on.

§3395. When a defendant pleads a set-off of a larger amount?
than the demand of the testator or intestate, the plaintifff may'
reply by showing that the estate is insolvent, and that there are
outstanding debts, of higher dignity than the defendant’s set-off,
sudicient to exhaust the assets, for the purpose of protecting the
executor or administrator from an absolute judgment. ‘

§3396. One judgment may be set off against another, on mo-.
tion, whether in the hands of an original party or an assignee. 1

§3397. A trespasser cannot set off improvements in an action'
brought for mesne pro’dts, except when the value of the premises}
has been increased by the repairs or improvements which have:
been made. In that case, the jury may take into consideration
the improvement or repairs, and diminish the profits by that
amount, but not below the sum which the premises would have
been worth without such improvements or repairs.

$3398. In all cases of mutual debts and sets-off, where the.

‘ jury shall find a balance for the defendant, such defendant may:

enter up judgment for the amount, and take out execution in
such manner as plaintifffs may do by this Code; provided such
defendant shall, at the time of filing his answer, file therewith a
true copy or copies of the subject matter of such sets-off; and
where the plaintifff shall be indebted to the defendant on open
account for dealings between themselves, and where the defen-.
dant shall hold and possess in his own right, by assignment,j
endorsement, or otherwise, according to law, any bond, note,
bill, or other writing for money, or other thing, of the plaintifff ’s,
such defendant may offer the same as set-off, and on due proof
shall be allowed the same.

§3399. The statute of limitations applies to the subject mat-:
ter of sets-off as well as the plaintifff ’s demand. ‘

SECTION III.

USURY.
Sermon. Ssonox.
3400. Pleas of usury. 3401. Examination of parties.

.' § 3400. The plea of usury must set forth the sum upon which
it was paid, or to be paid; the time when the contract was made;
when payable; and the amount of usury agreed upon, taken or
reserved.

§3401. When the plea of usury is filed the defendant may
examine the plaintifff as a witness on the same terms and in the
same manner as is prescribed for the examination of parties as
witnesses in other cases; and if the plaintifff declines to answer,
the defendant himself may be examined as a witness.

l

 

SECTION IV.
FAILURE or CONSIDERATION.

SECTION 3402. Plea of failure of consideration.

§3402. Whenever an action shall be commenced at common
law, founded upon any contract, the defendant in such action
may plead and give in evidence to the ury, upon the trial thereof, that the consideration upon which said contract was founded
has totally or partially failed; such plea shall only be pleaded
in cases between the original parties to the contract, or their
privies or assignees, whose title has been acquired with notice,
actual or constructive, or by operation of law.

 

SECTION V.
NON EST FA 010.51.

830110): 3403. Plea of non est facMm.

$3403. The plea of non est fwctum is a denial of the execution of the instrument sued upon, and applies to notes and other
instruments as well as deeds, and applies only when the execution of the instrument is alleged to be the act of the party tiling
the plea, or adopted by him.

SECTION VI.
or OTHER PLEAS.

Scones. Sacrrox.
3404. Pleas peculiar toexecutors, Ate. 3407. Of former recovery. be.
3405. Other pleas by them. 3408. Plea of coverture.
3406: Plea of nut tie! record. 3409. Defences by Sheriff.

§3404. When an executor or administrator is sued as such, he]
may plead n6 unques executor, or that no assets have come intoi
his hands, or plane administraeit prcetor, a sum not sufficient toi
satisfy debts of a higher nature against the deceased held by
third persons, or plane administravit, that he has fully administered the assets that came into his hands, or pending the action
his letters testamentary or of administration have been revoked,
and the administration committed to another, to whom all the
assets which came into his hands have been delivered.

§3405. An executor or administrator, when the cause of ac-;
tion originated in the life time of the testator or intestate, may
plead any plea which such testator or intestate might plead if
living, and he may also plead in abatement in all such cases
where such plea is applicable. _

§3406. The plea of owl trial record can only be pleaded to a
record which is the gist or foundation of the action, and not to‘
a record which is stated as an inducement only.

§3407. A former recovery, or the pendency of a former suit
for the same cause of action, between the same parties, in the
same or any other court that has jurisdiction, shall be a good
cause of abatement; but if the first action is so defective that
no recovery can be possibly had, the pendency of a former suit
will not abate the action.

§3408. When a fame sole is sued on a contract made by her
while cove-rt, and she pleads her mature in bar, it is not a sufiicient reply that she promised to pay or perform the contract

\ atter she is constituted a free dealer or becomes a feme sole, unless it be shown that there was a new consideration, or moral
obligation, or separate estate secured to her at the time she made
the contract. . .

§3409. A Sheriff or other odicer cannot defend himself against
an action for escape by showing that the process under which
the arrestwas made was irregular. though he may when the

process is void.

CHAPTER II.

OF AMENDMENTS.

ARTICLE 1. General principles.
ARTICLE 2. Particular cases.

ARTICLE I.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
Eamon. iSscrrox.
3410. Amendment of pleadings. 7 3416. Names of plaintifffs.
3411. New parties, ac, not allowable.  3417. Representative character.
3412. Imposition of terms. l 3418. Omission of jurisdiction.
3413. Misnomers. | 3419. Scirefacias amendable.

3414. Names of partners. | 3420. Amendments of process.
3415. Names of defendants. ‘

§3410. All parties, whether plaintifffs 'or defendants in the Snperior, Inferior, or other courts, (except the Supreme Court)
'whether at law or in equity, may, at any stage of the cause, as
matter of right, amend their pleadings in all respects, whether
in matter of form or of substance, provided there is enough in
the pleadings to amend by.
§3411. No amendment adding a new and distinct cause of
action, or new and distinct parties, shall be allowed unless ex—
pressly provided for by law.
§3412. In case the party applying for leave to amend the
Ipleadings or other proceedings shall have been guilty of negligence in respect to the matter of amendment, the court may
compel him to pay his adversary the cost of the proceedings for
which he moves, and may force reasonable and equitable terms
upon him at discretion, not touching the real merits of the cause
in controversy.
§3413. All misnomers, whether in the christian or sur-name,
made in writs, petitions, bills, or other judicial proceeding on the
civil side of the court, shall, on motion, be amended and corrected instanter, without working unnecessary delay to the party
making the same.
§3414. In all suits by or against partners, or where any two
or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, and the name
of any person who ought to be joined in such action as plaintifff

or defendant is omitted, the omissions shall, on motion, be
amended by adding the proper party instanter.

§3415. When two or more persons sue or are sued in the same
action, either on :I. t'rontr:1~t. 01' fur :1 tart. the plaintifff 111:1"; amend
his declaratitgrn by striking out one or more of such (letL‘ndnnts
:uitl Ill'Ut'L‘t‘tl ng'ninst the remaining th‘thntlnnt nt' (leli‘iulnnts. ii"
there is. no “tin-1' legal tliiiitxnltn‘; in the case.

il-l-lti. \V'lwn :1:i*\‘t-1':Ll pinintili's .4110. jointly the declaration may
he nn'n'nclt-il hf: striking out the innin- (11‘ Ullt’ or more nl' snvh
plainliilis. .\nll when it lwmnnw IIUt‘L"-':41ll"\_' liFI' lllt? 1>111'1ua:~i: of
enlin'uing the rights {It «~11le lilnintiil', he may :ltltf‘lltl lay snlistitnting tlnr name. of another person in his F-lt‘tltl. sitting for his
lit-SC.

§2i~llT. in :m mirtiun lay or :Lg'ninnt. :Lll executor, :nlniinistt‘ntur
01‘ other l'tflll'tfr-‘LflltilliYt'. the. «.lcclni'atinn may be amended hy strik—
ing out the representative character of such plaintifff or defendant. And in an action by or against an individual the pleadings
may be amended by inserting his representative character.

§ 3418. The omission to give the court jurisdiction in the pleadings is amendable.

§3419. Scire is amendable as other pleadings.

§3420. Void process or where there is no process or waiver
“thereof, cannot be amended, but if service be acknowledged by
the defendant, and upon hearing testimony the court becomes
satisfied that process was waived by the defendant, and that at
the time such service was acknowledged by accident or mistake
the entry of such waiver was omitted, such omission may be supplied by amendment wane pro tame.

ARTICLE II.
PARTICULAR CASES.

SECTION 1. Of amending verdicts, judgments and executions.
SECTION 2. Of amending oiiicial returns.

SECTION 3. Of amending records.

SECTION 4. Of other amendments.

 

SECTION I.
. OF AMENDING vnnnro'rs, JUDGMENTS AND EXECUTIONS.

SECTION. ' SECTION

3421. Amendments of verdicts. 3424. Amendments of judgment.
3422. After dispersion of jury. ; 3425. Of executions.

8423. Where part is legal and part not.I

§342L A verdict may be amended so as to make it conform
to the declaration, if the error plainly appears upon the face of
the record.

§3422. A verdict may be amended in mere matter of form,
after the jury have dispersed ; but after it has been received and
recorded, and the ury dispersed, it cannot be amended in matter
of substance, either by what the jurors say they intended to find,
or otherwise.

§3423. If a part of a verdict be legal and a part illegal, the
court‘will construe such verdict, and order it amended by entering a remitter as to that part which is illegal, and give judgment for the balance.
' §3424. A judgment may be amended by order of the court
in conformity to the verdict upon which it is predicated even
after an execution issues.
, §3425. A Jieri facich or capias ad satisfacz'endum may be
amended so as to conform to the judgment from which it issued,
and also as to the time of its return; but if such  fa. be levied,
or the defendant be under arrest by virtue of such ca. act. at the
time of the amendment, such levy or arrest must fall ; still the
amended fr). fa. or CO. 8a. may be re-executed.

SECTION II.
AMENDING OFFICIAL RETURNS.

SECTION. Sscrxox.
3426. Official returns amendable. 3427. May be made nunc pro tune.

§.3426. The Sheriff or other executing officer may amend his1
ofIicial entries and returns, so as to make such entries and returns
conform to the facts of the case at the time such entry or return
was made. '

§3427. If the Sheriff or other executing officer shall fail to
make an oiiicial return which by law he should have made, such
entry or return may be made mmc pro tmw by order of the
court, so as to make the proceedings conform to the facts at the
time the entry should have been made.

 

SECTION III.

OF AMENDING RECORDS.

Samoa. lSscron.
3428. Amendment of records. 5 3429. Discretion of the court.

§3428. It is a power incident to all courts to correct their own
proceedings before final judgment.

§3429. In allowing or refusing amendments there is a wide
discretion to be exercised by the court, hence no fixed rule can
be laid down which would apply to each particular case that
might arise, but as a general rule, the court will amend the entries
of its orders on the minutes, or the records and other proceedings,
mmcpro tune: ‘

1. When the case is within some statutory provisions.

2. When there is something on the face of the proceedings to
amend by, from which what actually took place in the prior proceedings can be clearly ascertained and known.

3. In all cases where such amendment will clearly be in furtherance of justice.

SECTION IV.
or OTHER AMENDMENTS.

Snonox. SECTION.
3430. Affidavits of illegality amendable. 3434. Appeal bonds amendable.
3431. Also, insolvent's schedule. 3435. Also, affidavits to appeal.

3432. Also, rules for new trial.
3433. Certam affidavits not amendable.

3436. Also, clerical mistakes.

w.-——-_

§3430. Affidavits of illegality are upon motion and leave of
court amendable instwnter by the insertion of new and independent grounds; provided the defendant will swear that lie did not
know of such grounds-when the original affidavit was filed.

§3431. A schedule filed by an insolvent debtor is amendable,
provided he will show to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit
or otherwise, that the omission arose from ignorance, inadver~
tance, mistake, or inability at the time to make it more perfect;
he must, however, amend instant”, and will not be permitted to
delay a creditor thereby.

§3432. A rule 72.5 8% for a new trial may be amended by adding
new grounds not taken at the time the application was filed.

§3433. An affidavit which is the foundation of alegal proceeding cannot be amended except expressly provided for by law. ,

§3434. An appeal bond and all other bonds taken under requisition of law in the course of a judicial proceeding may be
amended and new security given if necessary.

§3435. Where material words are omitted by accident or mistake in an affidavit to appeal in forma paupemls, such omission is
amendable.

§3436. The mistake or misprision of a clerk or other ministerial ocher shall in no case work to the injury of a party where by
an amendment justice may be promoted.

 

CHAPTER III.
or THE PRODUCTION or PAPERS

83011011. iSscmox.
3437. Production of books, to. 3443. Subpaena dunes te cum.
3438. Notice to produce. 3444. Penalties for disobeying.
3439. Judgment in case of‘ failure. 3445. Secondary evidence.
3440. Continuance. 3446. Transcripts of books.
3441. Amdavit of non-resident. 3447. Examination of books.

3442. Notice—how made available. t

§3437. The several courts shall have power, on the trial of any
cause cognizable before them respectively, on notice and proof
thereof being previously given by the opposite party or his attorney, to require either party to produce books, writings and other
documents in his possession, power, custody or control, which
shall contain evidence pertinent to the cause in question, under
circumstances where such party might be compelled to produce
the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in equity.

§ 3438. The notice required by the preceding section shall be
in writing, signed by the party seeking the production of the
books or other writings, or his attorney, and served on the adverse
party or his attorney, ten days before the production ofthe books,
writings or documents shall be required, provided such party re~
sides in the county where the suit is pending ; if out of said county and within one hundred miles, fifteen days: if over one him—dred miles and less than two hundred, twenty days; and if beyond the limits of this State, sixty days.

§3439. If the plaintifff or his attorney, being so notified, shall
fail or refuse to comply with such order, the court shall on mo—i
tion give judgment against such plaintifff as in case of non-suit,
and if the defendant shall fail or refuse to comply therewith, the
court, on motion, shall give udgment against such defendant
as in case of judgment by default.

§3~140. In case of the service of any notice as aforesaid, whom
it shall appear to the satistactitm ofthe court, by an affidavit of '
the party or otherwise, that such party has used due and proper
diligence and cannot procure the books, writings, or other documents required, the cause may be continued at the instance of the
party notified.

§344L When the party notified resides without the limits of :
this State. but in one ofthe States or Territories of the Confederate‘
States, such party may make the oath required before a commissioner of this State resident in such State or Territory, or before
any officer of such State or Territory in which the party notified
may reside, who is authorized by the laws of such State or Territory to administer an oath, which shall be suiiieient, provided the
oiiicial character of the oiiicer attesting said aliidavit shall be
properly proven by the certificate of the Governor, the Secretary
of State, the Chancellor, or keeper of the great seal of the State
or Territory in which such aEdavit is made.

§3442. Before the notice provided for in the preceding sections shall beavailable, the party giving it, or his agent, must
make oath (or his attorney state in his place) that he has reason
to believe that the paper required is or has been in existence, that
it is in the possession, power, or control of the person notiiied and
that it is material to the issue.

§3443. When any deed, bond, note, book, writing or other
documents which it may be necessary to use as testimony in any
cause pending in any of the courts of this State, may be in the
possession of any person resident in any county in this State, and
who is not a party to said cause, the Clerk of the Court, or Justice of the Peace, as the case may be, in which said cause is pending, shall, upon application of the party or his attorney, desirous
of using such testimony, issue a subpr duces tecum directed to the person having such deed, bond, note, book, writing, or
other document in his possession, requiring him to be and appear
at the next term of said court, and to bring with him into said
court the paper desired to be used as testimony, which said sub.
pcena shall be served thirty days before the court to which it is

made returnable by a Sheriff, Constable, or some private person;
and the oihcial return of the Sheriff or Constable, or the affida—
vit of such private person shall be sufficient evidence that the
same was duly served.

. §344eL When a subpccna shall be issued and served as provid-ed in the preceding section, and the person Whose attendance is
'thereby required shall fail; to comply with the requisitions thereof, the court shall, on motion, issue an attachment against such

defaulting person, returnable to the next term of said court, and
shall fine such person in a sum not exceeding three hundred dolo
lars, unless he shall make a suiiicient excuse for such failure,
to be judged of by the court; but such person shall nevertheless
be subject to an action at the instance of the party by whom he
was subpoenaed for any damages which such party may have sustained by reason of such failure; Provided, that if the person
so subpoenaed shall, within ten days after the service of such sub‘poena, deliver to the party at whose instance the subpoena was
sued out, or his attorney, or file in the office of the court, or J ustice of the Peace from which such subpoena issued, the paper,
the production of which is required by such subpoena, or shall
deliver to the said party or his attorney, or shall file in the said
office his affidavit that the said paper is not in his power, ouster

dy, possession or control, and that it was not at the time Of serving said subpoena, then such delivery or iiling of the paper so
sought as aforesaid, or of such affidavit, shall be considered a full
and complete compliance with the requisitions of such supr
duces tecum.

§3445. In all cases pending in any of said courts where any
party, either at law or in equity, shall pursue the course in this
chapter pointed out, and is unable thereby to procure such deed,
bond, note, book, writing or other document, such party shall be
permitted to go into parol evidence of the contents of such deed,
bond, note, book, writing or other document.

§3446. then any person shall be notified or served with subpae-na duces tccum to produce books in his possession to be used
as testimony on the trial of any cause as hereinbefore provided,
if such person will make oath that he cannot produce the books
required without suffering a material injury in his business, and
shall also make, or cause to be made out, a full transcript from
such books of all the accounts and dealings with the opposite
party, and have such transcript examined and sworn to by an
impartial witness, and produce the same in court, it shall be a
compliance with the notice, or subpcvna times tecum.

§3447. \Vhen the transcript provided for in the preceding section shall be produced in court, if the adverse party is dissatisfied
therewith, and will swear that he believes that the books contain
entries material to him which do not appear in the transcript, the
court will grant him a commission to be directed to certain persons named by the parties and approved by the court, to cause
the adverse party to produce the books required, (he being sworn
that the books produced are all that he has or had that answer
to the description in the notice,) and to examine said books, and
to transmit to the court a full and fair statement of the accounts
and entries between the parties under their hand, which shall be
sealed up and transmitted to the court, as in case of interrogatories, which statement, when received by the court, shall be dccmed a compliance with the notice, or subpchch (lures fecum.

CHAPTER Iv.
OF CONTINUANCES.

Snorlon. SECTION.
3448. One continuance at common law. 3456. When case is not reached.
3449. When amending party may continue 3466. Of cases returned from 8. Court.

3450. Continuance for surprise. 3457. Diligence required.
3451. For absence of witnesses. 3458. N on—return of interrogatories.
3452. Admission of facts. 3459. Continuance on appeal.

3463. Continuance for absence of party. 3460. Discretion of the court.
3454. For absence of counsel.

§3448. No trial in any civil cause shall be had at the first term,
(except expressly provided for by law,) and‘ no cause whatever,
depending in any of the courts of this State, shall be continued
more than one term at common law, at the instance of the same
party for any cause whatever.

§3449. The party amending pleadings or other proceedings in
any of said courts, shall not be entitled to delay or continuance
'on account of such amendment except by leave of the court to
enable him to make such amendment.

§3450. When any amendment shall be made to the pleadings
or other proceedings in the cause, if the opposite party will make
oath, or his counsel state in his place that he is surprised by such
amendment, and that he is less prepared for trial, and how, than
he would have been if such amendment had not been made, and
that such surprise is not claimed for the purpose of delay, the
case may be continued in the discretion of‘ the Judge at. the
instance of the amending party.

§3451. In all applications for continuanucs upon the ground
of the absence of a witness, it must be shown to the court that
the witness is absent, that he has been subpoenaed, that he resides
in the county where the case is pending, that his testimony is
material, that such witness is not absent by the permission, directly or indirectly, of such applicant, that he expects he will be able
to procure the testimony of such witness at the next term of the
court, and that such application is not made for the purpose of
delay, but to enable the party to procure the testimony of such
absent witness, and must state the facts expected to be proved by
such absent witness. x ‘

§3452. No continuance shall be allowed in any court on 1
count of the absence of a witness, or for the purpose of procu$
testimony, when the opposite party is willihg to admit and 

not contest the truth of the facts expected to be proved, and the
court shall order such admission to be reduced to writing.

§ 3453. lt' either party shall be Providentially prevented from
attending at the trial. of any cause, and the counsel of such absent party will state in his place that he cannot go safely to trial
without the presence of such absent party, such cause shall be
continued, provided his continuance-s are not exhausted.

§ 3454. The illness or absence from Presidential cause of counsel, where there is but one, or of the leading counsel where there
are more than one, shall be a sufficient ground for a continuance,
provided the party making the application will swear, that he
cannot go safely to trial without the services of such absent counsel, that he expects his services at the next term, and that said
application is not made for delay only.

§3~155. A cause not reached at the trial term stands over as
continued.

§345G. then any cause shall he sent. back to the Superior
Court by the Supreme Court, the same shall be in order for trial:
at the first term of the said Superior Court next after the session1
of the Supreme Court ; and if such case is upon the appeal, and
1the conti nuances of either party are exhausted, the said Superior
Court may grant one continuance to said party as the ends of
justice may require.

§3457. In all cases the party making an. application for a con—1
tinuance must show that he has used due. diligence. '

§345R When a cmnmission issues to examine a Witness, it. not!
having; been returned, shall he no cause of a continuance, unlessi
the party seeking the cmitinuancc will make the same oath ofI
the materiality of the testimony as in the case of an absent Witness, and the party must show due diligence in sueing out and
having the same. executed.

§3459. No appeal. case shall he continued more than twice by
the same. party except for Providential cause and for which, it;
may be continued as often as justice may require.

§346tt All applications for continuances are addressed to the]
mound legal discretion of the court, and it' not expressly provided(
for, shall be granted or refused as the ends of justice may require.

CHAPTER V.

GARNISHMENTS.
Sscnox. {SECTIOIL
3461. Garnishments at common law.  3470. Gamishee—when to pay interest.
3462. How obtained. ; 3471. Judgment against garnishee.
3463. Adidavit and bond by agent, &c. i 3472. Answer of garnishee.

3464. By one of a firm, &c. : 3473. Collateral securities.

3465. How and by whom issued, kc. 3474. Attorney may be garnishecd.
3466. Against persona out of the county. 3475. Receiver exempt.

3-167. How issued, Sac. _ 3476. Laborer‘s wages exempt.
3168. Garnishments—how dissolved. 3477. Mgacies, «‘30.

12469. Distribution of money. . 3478. Garnisluneut oi exceutors, &c.

§3461. In cases where suit is pending, or where judgment has
been obtained, the plaintifff shall be entitled to the process of
garnishment under the following regulations :

§3462. The plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, shall make
an aiiidavit before some oiiicer authorized to issue an attachment
by this Code, stating the amount claimed to be due in such action, or on such judgment, and that he has reason to apprehend
the loss of the same, or some part thereof, unless the process of
garnishment do issue and shall give bond, with good security, in
a sum at least equal to double the amount sworn to be due, payable to the defendant in the suit or judgment, as the case may
be, conditioned to pay said defendant all costs and damages that
he may sustain in consequence of sueing out said garnishment, in
the event that the plaintifff fails to recover in the suit pending,
or it should appear that 'the amount sworn to be due on such
judgment was not due.

§3463. When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney at
law of the plaintifff, he may swear according to the best of his
knowledge and belief, and shall have power to sign the name of
the plaintifff to such bond, who shall be bound thereby in the
same manner as though he had signed it himself.

§346£ When the debt for the recovery of which the garnish—
‘ment is sought is due to co-partners, or several persons jointly,
any one of said co-partners, or joint creditors, may make the affidavit and give the bond in the name of the plaintifff, as prescribed in cases of attachment.

§3465. When such affidavit has been made, and bond given, it
shall be the duty of the officer before whom the same is made, or
any other officer authorized by this Code to issue attachments,

 

to whom the said bond and aHidavit may be delivered, upon the
request of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, to issue a
summons of garnishment to such person directed as aforesaid, re—
quiring him to appear at the next term of the court where .such
suit is pending, or where such judgment was obtained, but if the
next Superior or Inferior Court shall be held within less than
twenty days, or the next Justices’ Court shall be held within less
than ten days from the time such summons shall issue, then the garnishee shall be required to appear at the next court thereafter,
then and there, or before that time, to depose on oath what he
is indebted to, or what property or effects he has in his hands
belonging to the defendant, or had at the time of the service of
the summons 01' garnishment, and upon such affidavit, bond, and
summons of garnishment, being delivered to any officer authorized by law to levy an attachment, it shall be his duty to serve
such summons of garnishment upon the person to whom it is directed, if to be found in his county, and to make an entry of
such service, and of his actings and doings in the premises, upon
the aiiidavit and bond, and return the same to the court to which
the person summoned as garnishee is required to appear, and all
subsequent proceedings shall be the same as in this Code prescribed in relation to garnishment in cases of attachment.

§ 3466. When any of the persons sought to be garnisheed reside:
in a different county from the one where suit is pending, or in}
which judgment was obtained, it shall be the duty of the oiiiceri
taking such affidavit and bond, or any other officer of the county
where such suit is pending, or where Such udgment was obtained, authorized by this Code to issue an attachment, to whom said
bond and affidavit may be delivered, to make out a copy thereof,
and certify the same to be true, and shall deliver said certined
copy to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney at law, and upon such

certified cepy beinrr delivered to any oth'cer authorized to issue
an attachment of t 1e county where the person sought to be garnisheed resides, it shall be the duty of such officer to issue summons of garnishment for such person as he may be directed by
the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney at law, requiring him to appear at the next Superior, Inferior, or Justices’ Court of said county, according as such suit is pending, or judgment was obtained
in the Superior, Inferior, or Justices’ Court, then and there to depose according to the provisions of the previous sections; but if
the said Superior or Inferior Court shall be held within less than

twenty days, or said Justices’ Court shall be held within less than
ten days from the time such garnishment issues, the garnishee
shall be required to appear at the next court thereafter.
. §3467. Upon such certified copy of affidavit, bond and sum,mons of garnishment being delivered to any officer authorized by
law to levy an attachment, it shall be his duty to serve the summons upon the person to whom it is directed, and to return the
said copy affidavit and bond to the court where such person is
summoned to appear, together with his actings and doings entered thereon, and all subsequent proceedings shall be the same
as is prescribed by this Code in relation to garnishment in cases
of attachment where the garnishee resides out of the county
in which the attachment is returnable.
§3468. In cases where garnishments are issued when suit is
'pending, or judgment has been obtained, the defendant may dissolve such garnishment, and have the same dismissed upon filing
in the Clerk’s office of the court where suit is pending or judgment was obtained, or with the Justice of the Peace where suit
is pending, or judgmentwas obtained in such court, a bond with
security, payable to the plaintili', for the payment of the amount
due on such judgment, or which may be recovered in said action,
and the costs thereon, and the plaintifff may enter up judgment
upon such bond against the principal and securities, as judgment
may be entered against securities upon appeal.
§3469. All money raised by virtue of the process of garnish- .
ment under this Code shall be paid over to the creditors of the
defendant, according to the priorities now established by law—the expenses of the moving creditors being first paid pro rate, by
the judgment creditors receiving the benefit of his diligence.
§3470. As a general rule, a party who is prevented from paying over money by process of law is not liable for interest, but if
a garnishee resists the payment of the fund in his hands, or controverts his indebtedness, he is liable for interest thereon, but
he may relieve himself from interest by paying the fund into
court.
§3471. The plaintifff shall not have judgment against the garnishee until he has obtained judgment against the defendant.
§347 2. The garnishee must, in his answer, admit or deny
his indebtedness, or that he has, or had effects in his hands helonging to defendant, and if he is unable to do so, his inability
must appear in his answer, together with all the facts plainly,

 

fully and distinctly set forth, so as to enable the court to give
judgment thereon.

§347 3. Collateral securities in the hands of a creditor shall
not be the subject of garnishment at the instance of other creditors.

§347£ An. attorney at law who has money or other effects in
his hands belonging to the defendant shall be subject to be garnisheed. '
‘ {5347 5. A receiver appointed by a court of equity shall not be
subject to the process of garnishment.

§3476. All journeymen, mechanics and day laborers shall be
exempt from the process and liabilities of garnishment on their
daily, weekly, or monthly wages, whether in the hands of their
employers or others.

§3477. As a general rule, the interest of a legatee or distributee is not the subject of garnishment issued against an executor
or administrator, but if the legacy has been assented to by the
executor, and such legacy is not defeated by debts against the
estate, and when there has has been a final settlement by the administrator, and there remains in his hands a fixed balance, such
legacy or the interest of the distributee, or heir, may be reached
by the process of garnishment, at the instance of a creditor of
such legatee, distributee, or heir at law, as the case may be.

§347 8. In every case a garnishment may be issued against an
executor or administrator for a legacy or distributive share, if
the creditor will swear—in addition to the oath required in ordinary cases—that his debtor resides without the State, or is insolvent. In such cases the executor or administrator shall not be
compelled to answer the garnishment until the estate in his hands
is suiiiciently administered to enable him safel y to answer the
same. ‘

TITLE IV.
or THE VERDICT AND JUDGMENT.

 

CHAPTER I .
VERDICT mo JUDGMENT.

ARTICLE 1. Of the verdict and it reception.

ARTICLE 2. Entering judgment.

ARTICLE 3. Effect and lien of judgment.

ARTICLE 4. Of attacking judgments.

ARTICLE 5. Transfer of judgments.

ARTICLE 6. Confession of judgments.

ARTICLE 7. Dormant judgments and revival thereof.

 

ARTICLE I.
OF THE VERDICT AND ITS RECEPTION.
SECTION. Secrrox.
3479. Verdict must cover the issues. 3483. Verdicts in trover.
3480. Must show on what plea found. 3484. For a total divorce.
3481. Construction of verdicts. 3485. For a partial divorce.
3482. Moulding verdicts. I 3486. Reception of verdicts.

. §347 9. The verdict must cover the issues made by the pleadings, and must be for the plaintifff or defendant.

§3480. If there are several pleas filed by the defendant, a verdict for the defendant must show upon which of the pleas the
verdict is rendered. The jury may render such verdict upon all
the pleas if they see proper so to do.

§348L Verdicts are to have a reasonable intendment, and are
' to receive a reasonable construction, and are not to be avoided
unless from necessity. .

§3482. It shall be within the power of the Superior Court, in
a proper case, to mould the verdict at law so as to do full justice '
to the parties, and in the same manner as a decree in equity, and
the judgment and execution shall conform to the verdict.

§3483. In an action of trover the verdict may be in the alternative: that is, it must be for the value of the property sued for,
which may be discharged by the return of the property within a
given time specified in the verdict.

$3484. The form of a verdict in case of a total divorce‘ may:
be as follows, to wit: We, the jury, find that sufficient proofs
have been submitted to our consideration to authorize a total divorce, that is to say, a divorce a m'nculo matrimonii upon legal
principles between the parties in this case.

§3485. In cases of a partial divorce the form of a verdict‘may V
be as follows, to wit: We, the jury, find that sufiicient proofs:
have been submitted to our consideration to authorize a partial
divorce between the parties, that is to say, a divorce 0 mama- at
More upon legal principles. That the plaintifff shall pay '
on the day of to the defendant during her natural
life the sum of dollars for the support and maintenance of
the issue of such marriage during their natural lives.

§3486. Verdicts shall not be received except in open court, ‘
unless by agreement of the parties. 1

ARTICLE II.
0F ENTERING JUDGMENT.
Sscnox. {Sacrlox
3487. Judgments, when to be entered. 3492. Against executors, .tc.
3488. Appeal suspends judgment. I 3493. Costs against executors, dc.
3489. Judgment for principal and interestJ 3494. Judgments on bonds.
3490. Judgment on appeals.  3495. In favor of, and against partners, 51-0.

3491. Against sureties and endorsers. §

§ 3487. In all cases when a verdict shall be rendered, the party
in whose favor it may be, or his attorney, shall be allowed to enter and sign up judgment thereon at any time within four days
after the adjournment of the court at which such verdict was rendered, for the amount thereof and all costs recoverable thereon,
and no execution shall issue on any verdict until such judgment
shall be entered up and signed by the party or his attorney.

§3488. If a judgment be entered within the time allowed for
entering an appeal, and such appeal be entered, the judgment will
be suspended.

§3489. In all cases where judgment may be obtained, such
judgment shall be entered up for the principal sum due, with interest; Provided the claim upon which it was obtained draws interest, but no part of such judgment shall bear interest except the
principal, which may be due on the original debt.

 

mm- inv-V__. h_._.___._s_.A

§3490. In all cases of appeal, where security has been given,
the plaintifff, or his attorney, may enter up judgment against the:
principal and surety jointly and severally, and execution shall
issue accordingly, and proceed against either or both, at the option of the plaintifff, until his debt is satisfied.
,_ $3491. In all judgments against sureties or endorsers on any
' bill of exchange, promissory note, or other instrument in writing,
the plaintifff or his attorney shall designate and identify the relation of the parties under the contract on which such judgment is
rendered, and execution shall issue accordingly.
§3492. In a suit against an executor or administrator in his
representative character, the judgment must be de 607Vin testatom's,
except when he pleads 1w ungues executor, or a release to himself,
or plem administ-ravit, or plene admim'strwvz'tpmater, and his plea:
is found against him in which case the udgment is, that the plaintifff recover both the debt and costs, in the first place to be levied
of the goods and chattels lands and tenements of the deceased if
to be found, and if not to be found, then to be levied of the personal goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the defendant.
§3493. When the verdict of a jury is against an executor or
"administrator, or other trustee in his representative character, a
judgment for costs should be entered against him in the same
character.
£53494. All judgments rendered against the obligors of any
bond, whether otlicial or voluntary, shall be for the amount of
damnilication found by the verdict of a ury, and not for the penalty thereof.
§3495. Judgments entered up, or executions issued in favor of
or against co—partners, when the partnership style is used therein
instead of the individual names of such persons comprising said
firm, shall be good.

-#

ARTICLE III.
or run armor AND LIEN or Junomm'ra

Simon. Section.
3496. Conclusiveness of judgment. 3501. Do not bind cheese in action.
349?. Judgments at same term equal. 3502. Lien on property transferred.
3498. Rank of amrmed judgments. ‘ 3503. On property removed from Stats.
3499. Dignity of judgments. 3504. In trespass and trover.
3500. Prevent alienation—when. l 3505. Sale of land—pmchase money.

§3496. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction ist
conclusive between parties and privies as to the facts which it:
decides until reversed or set aside.

§3497. All judgments signed on verdicts rendered at the same.
term of the court shall be considered held and taken to be of 1
equal date, and no execution shall be entitled to any preference
by reason of being first placed in the hands ol‘ the levying
officer.

§3498. A judgment in the Superior Court, which is taken to ,1
the Supreme Court and affirmed, loses no lien or priority by the}
proceeding in the Supreme Court, but takes effect from the first‘
' judgment.

§ 3499. All judgments obtained in the Superior, Inferior, J ustices’, or other Courts of this State shall be of equal dignity and
shallbind all the property of the defendant, both real and per, sonal from the date of such judgment, except as otherwise provided in this Code. 7
.' §3500. In all cases where a verdict shall be rendered and judgment signed up thereon, and an appeal shall be entered from
such verdict, the property of the defendant shall not be bound by
the first verdict and judgment, except so far as to prevent the
alienation by the defendant of his property between the signing
of the first judgment, and the. signing of the judgment on the appeal, but shall be bound from the signing of such judgment on
i the appeal.

§35OL A judgment has no lien upon promissory notes in the
hands of the defendant, nor are choses in action liable to be seized
and sold under execution, unless made so specially by statute.

§ 3502. When any person has bone jide, and for a valuable con-a
sideration purchased real or personal preperty, and has been in‘
the possession of such real property for four years, or of such
personal property two years, the same shall be discharged from
the lieu of any judgment against the person from whom he purchased. .

§3503. 'When a judgment lien has attached on personal prop
erty which is removed to another State and sold, if brought back‘
again to this State it will be subject to the judgment lien.

§3504. When a verdict for damages shall be rendered in fever
of a plaintifff in trover or trespass, and a judgment signed there-i
on, the said verdict and judgment shall not lave the effect to
change the property which is the subject matt r of the suit, or

to vest the same in the defendant in said suit until after the damages and costs recovered by the plaintifff in such action are paid
off and discharged; except so far as to subject such property to
be sold under and by virtue of an execution issuing from such
judgment in such action of trespass or trover, and to make the
same liable to the payment of the damages and costs recovered
in said actidn in preference to any other judgment, order or decree, against the said defendant in said action of trespass or trover.
a §3505. When a person holds property under a bond for titles,
, and the purchase money has been partially paid, the same may
be levied on under judgments against such person, and the entire
interest stipulated in the bond shall be sold. The proceeds of
the sale shall be appropriated first to the payment of the balance
of the purchase money, and the remainder to the judgment liens
according to date. In all such cases notice of the levy shall be
given by the levying officer to the holder of the bond for titles.

 

ARTICLE IV.
HOW ATTACKED. AN D HEREIN OF MOTIONS IN ARREST OF JUDGMENT.
SECTION. SECTION.
3506. Arrest of judgments. 3511. Jurisdiction of the motion.
3507. Nature of the motion. 3512. Judgments—where attacked.

1

3508. On account of defective pleadings.
3509. Where defects are amendable.
3510. VVheu set aside for perjury.

3513. Void judgments.
3514. Judgments set aside in equity.
3515. How attacked by creditors, «to.

 

§3506. When a judgment has been rendered, either party
may move in arrest thereof, or to set it aside for any defect not
amendable which appears on the face of the record or pleadings.

§3507. A motion in arrest of judgment differs from a motion
for a new trial in this : the former must be predicated on some
defect which appears on the face of the record or pleadings,
while the latter must be predicated on some extrinsic matter not
so appearing. It also differs from a motion to set aside a judgment in this: the motion, in arrest of judgment, must be made
during the term at which such judgment was obtained, While a
motion to set it aside may be made at any time Within the statute of limitations.

§3508. If the pleadings are so defective that no legal judg—E
ment can be rendered, the judgment will be arrested or set aside. 11

§3509. A. judgment cannot be arrested or set aside for anyr
defect in the pleadings or record, that is aided by verdict, or:
amendable as matter of form. '1

§3510. Any judgment, or verdict, rule or order of court,3
which may have been obtained, or entered up, shall be set aside,j
and be of no effect if it shall appear that the same was entered
up in consequence of corrupt and willful perjury; and it shall
be the duty of the court, in which such verdict, judgment, rule
or order, was obtained or entered up, to cause the same to be set
aside, upon motion and notice to the adverse party ; but it shall
not be lawful for the said court to do so, unless the person
charged with such perjury shall have been thereof duly convicted,
and unless it shall appear to the said court, that the said verdict,
judgment, rule or order, could not have been obtained and entered up, without the evidence of such perjured person, saving
always to third persons, innocent of such perjury, the right
which they may lawfully have acquired under such verdict, judgment, rule or order, before the same shall have been actually vacated and set aside. .

§3511. All motions to arrest or set aside a judgment, mustbe
made to the court by whom such judgment was rendered, and of
which motion the opposite party must have reasOnable notice.

§3512. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction
cannot be collaterally attacked in any other court for irregularity, but shall be taken and held as a valid judgment until it is
reversed or set aside. “

§3513. The, judgment of a court having no jurisdiction of
the person and subject matter, or void for any other cause, is a
mere nullity, and may be so held in any court when it becomes
material to the interest of the parties to consider it. .

§3514. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction
may be set aside by a decree in Chancery, for fraud, accident, or.
mistake, or the acts of the adverse party unmixed with the negligence or fault of the complainant.

§3515. Creditors, or bona fide purchasers, may attack a judgment for any defect appearing on the face of the record, or
pleadings, or for fraud, or collusion, whenever and wherever it
interferes with their rights, either at law or in equity.

ARTICLE V.
or THE TRANSFER or JUDGMENTS.

Samox. ;SEcnox.
3616. Judgments transferable. , 3517. Transfer by attorney of record.

§3516. Any plaintifff or transferee may bond Me, and for a
valuable consideration, transfer any judgment or execution to a
third person, and in all cases the transferee of any judgment or
execution shall have the same rights, and be liable to the same
equities, and subject to the same defenses as the original plain-.
tiff in judgment was. .

§3517. The transfer of a judgment or execution, by the attorney of record, shall be good to pass the title thereto as against
every person, except the plaintifff, or his assignee, Without notice. The ratification by the plaintifff shall estop him also from
denying the transfer. The receiving of the money shall be such

a ratification.

ARTICLE VI.
OF CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT.
$301702}. ‘ iSECTION.
3518. Confession—When allowed. i 3520.'Right of confession and appeal.

3519. Judge may confess in his court.

§3518. No confession of udgment shall be entered up but in
the county Where the defendant resided at the commencement of
the action, except expressly provided for by law, nor unless the
cause has been regularly sued out and docketed as in other cases.

§3519. A Judge of the Superior Court, Justice of the Inferior Court, or Justice of the Peace, may cenfess a judgment in
his own court.

§3520. Either party has a right to confess a judgment Without the consent of his adversary, and appeal from such confession
Without reserving the right so to do.

ARTICLE VII.

OF DORMANT J UDGMENTS AN D REVIVAL THEREOF. ~

SECTION. Sncnox.
3521. Judgments need no renewal. 3525. From whence issued. ,
3522. Revival of dormant judgments. 3526. Revival against non-residents.
3523. Debt on dormant judgments. 3527. J udgment—when taken.
3524. Scire facias to revive. I 3528. Scirefcwias in favor of assignee.

§3521. Judgments need not be renewed- on the court roll.

§ 3522. When any judgment obtained in any court of this
State is or shall become dormant, the same may be renewed by
action of debt or scirefacz'as at the option of the plaintifff.

§3523. If the action of debt be adopted, it must be brought
in the county where the defendant resides at the commencement
of the action. ,

§3524, Scirefam'as to revive a judgment is not an original
action, but the continuation of the suit in which the judgment
was obtained. ' ‘

§3525. A scirefaeias to revive a dormant judgment in the
Superior or Inferior Courts, must issue from and be returnable
to the court of the county in which the judgment was obtained,
shall be directed to all and singular the Sheriffs of this State,
and signed by the Clerk of such court, who shall make out copies
thereof, which shall be served by the Sheriff of the county in
which the party to be notified may reside, twenty days before
the sitting of the court to which it is made returnable, and the
original returned to the Clerk of the court from which it issued
and an original and copy shall issue for each county in which
.any party to be notified may reside.

§3526. If the defendant, or party to be notified, resides out of:
this State, a dormant udgment may be revived against such de—i
fendant or his representative, by such process as is now issued in1
cases where the defendant resides in this State; Provided, the
defendant or party to be notified be served with wire facias, by
publication in some public gazette of this State, once a month
for four menths previous to the term of the court at which it is
intended to revive said judgment; which service shall be as effectual in all cases as if the defendant or person to be notified had
been personally served.

§3527. In all cases of scire to revive a judgment, when
service has been perfected as herein provided, such judgment

rmay be revived, on motion, at the first term without the intervention of a jury, unless the defendant shall put in an issuable
plea, in which case the defendant shall be entitled to a trial by
a jury as in other cases.

§3528. Thescire facias, when the judgment has been transferred, shall issue in the name of the original plaintifff for the use
of the transferee.

f

—..———

TITLE V.
OF APPEALS.

 

CHAPTER I.
or APPEALS

ARTICLE 1. In what cases allowed.
ARTICLE 2. When, by whom, and how entered.
ARTICLE 3. Effect of appeals.

ARTICLE 4. How and when tried.

 

ARTICLE I.
IN WHAT CASES ALLOWED.

Sac-non. SECTION.

3529. When either party may appeal.  3531. No appeal on collateral issues.
3530. Appeal from Court of Ordinary. ; 3532. How collateral issues tried.

v V

§3529. In all civil cases (except as hereinafter provided)
when a verdict is rendered in the Inferior Court, or by a petit
jury in the Superior Court, and on all confessions of judgments
in either of said courts, either party may, as a matter of right,
enter an appeal.

§3530. An appeal lies to the Superior Court from any deciTsion made by the Court of Ordinary, except an order appointing
a temporary administrator. /

§353L No appeal shall be allowed in collateral issues ordered
by the court; but the Superior Court may, in its discretion, grant
a new trial upon such terms as shall appear reasonable and just;
and when such collateral issue is tried in the Inferior Court, if
said court is dissatisfied with the verdict, they may permit an appeal to the Superior Court, at their discretion.

 

§8532. All collateral issues in the Superior Court, unless!

otherwise directed by law, shall be tried by a special jury. No:
appeal shall be allowed on a verdict rendered on a dilatory plea
filed, unless by express leave of the court, granted on motion.

 

ARTICLE IX.
WHEN, BY WHOM AND How ENTERED.

Smear. (SECTION.
3633. When appeal shall be entered. l 3641. Security paying debt has recourse.
3534. Sundays and holidays not counted. 3642. Executors, etc. need not pay costs.
3635. By whom appeal may be entered. 3543. Insolvent may appeal by affidavit.
3636. Cost must be paid and bond given. 3544. Appeals from Ordinary, costs paid.
3537. Attorney may sign for principal. 3545. Ordinary to send up proceedings.
3538. By joint contractors 3: corporations. 3546. Application made to Clerks.
3639. One or more may appeal.  3647. Appeals from Inferior Court.

I

3640. Who and how liable on appeal. ;

 

§3533. Appeals to the Superior Court must be entered within 1
four days after the adjournment of the Court in which the verdict:
or judgment was rendered.

§3534. Sundays and holidays shall in no case be included in:
the computation of the time within which an appeal shall be‘
entered. ‘

§3535. An appeal may be entered by the plaintiii' or defendant]
in person, or by his attorney at law or in fact, and if by the lat-i
ter, he must be authorized in writing, which authority shall be1
filed in the court in which the case is pending at the time such
appeal is entered; but if it is shown to the court that such authority exists, such court may allow a reasonable time to file the
same, and such appeal shall be dismissed and execution issue
without further order; if such authority is not filed within
the time allowed, a ratification of an appeal, unauthorized, if
made in writing, and filed in the Clerk’s oilice before the next
term of the Court, shall render the appeal valid. .

§3636. The appellant (except as hereinafter provided) shall,
previous to obtaining such appeal, pay all costs which may have
accrued in the case up to the time of entering such appeal, and
give bond and security for the eventual condemnation money.

§3537. If such appeal shall be entered by the attorney at law
or in fact, he may sign the name of the principal to said appeal

bond, and the principal shall be bound thereby as though he had
signed it himself.

r §3538. When several partners or joint contractors sue or are
'sued as such, any one of said partners or joint contractors may
enter an appeal in the name of such iirm or joint contractors, and
sign the name of such firm or joint contractors to the bond required by law, which shall be binding on the iirm, and such joint
contractors, as though they had signed it themselves; and in case

Iof corporations, the appeal may be entered by the President or

:any agent thereof managing the case, or by the attorney of
record.

. §3539. When there shall be more than one party, plaintifff or
defendant, and one or more of said parties, plaintifff or defendant,
desires to appeal, and the others refuse or fail to appeal, such party,
plaintifff or defendant, desiring to appeal may enter an appeal
under such rules and regulations as are provided in this Code.

. §3540. Upon the appeal of either party, plaintifff or defendant,

’as provided in the previous section, the whole record shall be
taken up and all shall be bound by the final judgment, but in
case damages shall be awarded upon such appeal, such damages
shall only be recovered against the party appealing and his security, and not against the party failing or refusing to appeal.

t §3541. Such security shall be bound for the judgment on the
appeal, and in case any such security shall be compelled to pay
off the debt or damages for which judgment may be entered in
the cause, he shall have recourse only against the party for whom
he became security.

_ §3542. Executors, administrators, and other trustees, when

tsued as such, or defending solely the title of the estate, may enter

’an appeal without paying costs and giving bond and security as
hereinbefore required ; but if a judgment should be obtained
against such executor, administrator or other trustee, and not the
assets of the estate, he must pay costs and give security as in
other cases.

§3543. When any party, plaintifff or defendant, in any suit at
flaw, or in equity, shall be unable to pay costs and give security
as hereinbefore required, if such party will make and file an affidavit in writing that he is advised and believes that he has good
cause of appeal, and that owing to his poverty he is unable to pay
the costs and give the security required by law in cases of appeal,

such party shall be permitted to enter an appeal without the
payment of costs or giving security as hereinbefore required.
§3544. In all cases in the Courtof Ordinary, the party desiring to appeal, his attorney at law or in fact, shall pay all costs
that may have accrued and give bond and security to the Ordinary
for such further costs as may accrue by reason of such appeal;
this being done, the appeal shall be entered.
§3545. When an appeal has been entered in the Court of Crdinary, it shall be the duty of such Ordinary to transmit the same
to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which such
proceedings may have been had, at least ten days before the next
Superior Court of said county, to be there tried as other appeals.
§3546. All applications to enter an appeal in the Superior or
Inferior Courts shall be made to the Clerks respectively, except in
collateral issues tried in the Inferior Court by order of the court,
in which case the application must be made to said court.
§3547. When an appeal shall be entered from a verdict in the
Inferior Court, it shall be the duty of the Clerk thereof to transmit the same to the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county in'
which the verdict was obtained, by Whom it shall be entered on
the appeal docket and there tried as other appeals.

 

ARTICLE III.
EFFECT or APPEAL.

Sam-10x. ; SECTION.
3548. Investigation on appeal. . 3550. Appeals—how withdrawn.
3549. Appeal suspends judgment. I

§3548. An appeal to the Superior Court is a dc nova investigation. It brings up the whole record from the court below, and
all competent evidence is admissible on the trial thereof, whether
adduced on a former trial or not ; either party is entitled to be
heard on the whole merits'of the case.

§3549. An appeal suspends, but does not vacate judgment,
.and if dismissed or withdrawn, the rights of all the parties are
the same as if no appeal had been entered. .

§ 3550. No person shall be allowed to withdraw an appeal after
‘it shall be entered, but by the consent of the adverse party.

ARTICLE IV.
now AND WHEN TRIED.

Sacnox. 1 SECTION.
3551. Trial of appeals.  3552. Frivolous appeals.

§3551. All appeals to the Superior Courts shall be tried by a

special jury at the first term after the appeal has been entered,
unless good cause be shown for a continuance.
. $3552. If upon the trial of any appeal it shall appear to the
jury that the appeal was 'frivolous and intended for delay only,
they shall assess damages against the appellant and his security,
(if any) in favor of the respondent for such delay, not exceeding
twenty-five per cent. on the principal sum which they shall {ind
due, which damages shall be specially noted in their verdict.

 

TITLE VI.
OF EXECUTIONS.

CHAPTER. 1. Of Different kind of executions.
CHAPTER 2. Of the stay of executions.
CHAPTER 3. 0f the illegality of executions.
CHAPTER 4. Of forthcoming bonds.

 

CHAPTER I.
or DIFFERENT KINDS OF EXECUTIONS.

ARTICLE 1. When and how issued and returned.

ARTICLE 2. 0f the levy and proceedings thereon.

ARTICLE 3. Of sales under execution—when and how made.
ARTICLE 4. Of the satisfaction of executions.

 

ARTICLE I.
WHEN AND HOW ISSUED AND RETURNED.
Sac-non. ' SECTION.
3553. How issued and on what levied. 3558. Must follow the judgment.
'3554. When Sheriff is a party. I 3559. Ejectxnenb-writ of possession.
3555. Affidavit to obtain ca. sa. ; ?560. Not to issue against 3d persons.

3556. When 1i. fa. or ca. .sa may issue} 3561. Judge may frame executions.
3557. Returnable to next term. '

{$3553 Executiuns (except as hereinafter previttled) shall he issued by the Clerks ef the several eenrts in which judgment shall
he obtained, and hear test. in the name of one ut' the Judges 01‘
presiding Justices of sueh court, and shall bear date from the
time of their issuing, and, (except as lzereinafttw provided.) shall
he directed “to all and singular the Sheriffs. of this State and
their lawful deputies," and may be levied on all the estate. both
real and personal, of the defendant, subject. te levy and sale,
or they may issue against. the lmdy of such (.letemlant at. the ept.ien of the plaintifff or his attorney-x
§355~L All exec-uticms, orders, decrees, attachments for euntempt and linal process, to he issued lay the Clerks of the Superior er lnt'et'iur Courts in 't'avur of ur against. any Sheriit of this
State, shall he directed to the Cerener of the mnnty in which
said Sherilt' may reside, and to all and singular the Sheritl's of
the State, except. the Sheritl' of the county in which the inter—
ested Sheritf may reside, which may be levied, served and ret111'1u3(ll';yt.lie ()ereneror ether Sheritl', or a Constable of the
county, at the elitien of the plaintiti' er the party seeking the
remedy.

§3555. “When the. plaintiti', or his attorney, desires an execution against the liedy of a defendant, the plaintifff shall file with
the Clerk of sneh mnn't or with the Justice ef the Peace, as the
case may be, an affidavit stating that he has just cause to believe
that the defendant has money or property of his own, within his
power or control, which cannot be reached by  fa. (other than
that allowed by law,) or that the defendant has property beyond
the jurisdiction of the court in which the judgment was obtained, or that the defendant is able, out of his own property, to
pay the plaintifff’s debt, and willfully refuses so to do, and in every case the affidavit must state of what the property consists,
and particularly describe the same.

§3556. A  fa. or ca. set. may issue at any time after a ver-J
diet is rendered and judgment entered thereon, but if it is issued:
before the expiration of the time allowed for entering an appeal,l
the same will be suspended on the entering of an appeal by ei-l
ther party.

$3557. All executions, except as otherwise provided by this]
Code, shall be made returnable to the next term of the courtl

from which they issued respectively.

v §3558. All executions must follow the judgment from which
they issued, and describe the parties thereto as described in such
judgment.

§3559. When a verdict in ejectment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and a judgment entered thereon, the Clerk
of such court shall issue a writ of possession, in which the Clerk

Dshall incorporate a clause directing the Sheriff to collect, by levy
and sale of the defendant’s property, all such sums of money
as by the ‘n‘nding of the jury shall have been awarded to such
plaintifff in ejectment as mesne profits and costs.

§3560. The writ of possession shall not issue against third
persons not known in the suit on which such writ of possession
is founded, nor put in possession‘by, nor claiming under or by
virtue of, any conveyance from the defendant in such suit.

§3561. The Judge of any Superior Court may frame and
cause to be issued by the Clerk, any writ of execution to carry
into effect any lawful judgment or decree rendered in his court.

 

ARTICLE II.
or 0.1. SA’S.—HOW EXECUTED, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.

SECTION. Sscnox.
3562. Ca. 3a. returned, ji. fa. may issue. 3566. Place of arrest and imprisonment.
3563. Defendant may be released—how. 3567. Damages for escapes.
3564. Discharge of person no satisfact’n.l 3568. From insumcient jail, Co. liable.
3565. When defendant escapes. I ‘

§3562. When a ca. 86». shall have issued, and the same shall
not have been executed, an execution may issue against the
property of the defendant on the return of said ca. 8a.

§3563. When a ca. act. shall‘ have been served, the party on
Whom the same shall have been served, shall be released, provided he shall deliver to the oilicer serving the same, property
which will, in the opinion of such oiiicer, be sudicient to satisfy
the debt and all costs, and give bond and suliicient security to
the officer making the arrest, that the property so delivered is
bona fide the property of the defendant and subject to no prior
lien to the discharge of the said debt and costs; in which case
the oiiicer shall return the ca. 80. so issued, and take out an exe—
cution against the property of such defendant and advertise and
sell the property so delivered up, to satisfy such execution and

all costs.

§3564. In all cases where a debtor may have been arrested
under a ca. 8a. and is afterwards discharged from such arrest, either by the authority of the plaintifff or otherwise, without the
debt being paid, such arrest and discharge shall not operate as a
satisfaction of the debt, but the debtor’s property shall still be
liable to the udgment as though no arrest had been made;
Provided, the officer making such arrest shall endorse on such
ca. 8a. that'thc defendant was discharged from arrest without paying the amount due on such ca. 8a. The plaintifff cannot release
a defendant arrested under ca. so». so as to proceed against his
property Without the consent of such defendant.

§3565. Whenever any oilicer shall arrest a defendant on a ca.
86;. and such defendant shall make his escape, and said officer
shall be compelled to pay the amount due on said 04». w. by reason of said escape, such officer shall have the control of the
jiem'  issued, or to be issued on the udgment upon which
saidoa. 8a. is founded, for the purpose of re-imbursing himself
out of the property of the defendant, and the said arresting oilicer shall control said erri facias in as full and ample a manner
as the plaintifff in said feri facials might or could have done,
had said ca. 8a. never issued, or had the money due on said
judgment not have been paid by such officer ; Provided, that the
court, by Whose order or judgment such officer shall be required
to pay the amount due, shall pass an order giving such control.‘

§3566. Whenever any decree, order, ca. 8a., attachment for
contempt or other final process, directed as required by this Code,
shall be placed in the hands of any Sheriff or other arresting
officer, and under and by virtue of said process it shall become
the duty, under the laws of this State, for said Sheriff Or other
officer to imprison any defendant or other delinquent, it shall be
the duty of such Sheriff or other officer to arrest such delinquent
Wherever found, and it shall be his duty to imprison him in the
county where such arrest was made, or in the county Where the
arresting oiiicer may reside, at the option of the partyreqniringi
the services of such Sheriff or other officer. If there is no jail,i
or the jail is insufficient, the person arrested may be imprisoned
in the jail of an adjoining county.

§ 3567. In all cases of escape of persons arrested for debt, by a
Sheriff or other officer, the measure of damages for the plaintifff 3
against the officer, shall be the actual loss sustained by the plain-i
tiff, unless it shall appear that the officer voluntarily permitted;

the escape, or connived at it, or was guilty of great negligence,
in which case he shall pay the full amount due to the plaintifff.

§3568. If the escape was effected by reason of the insufliciency
of the jail, the creditor may recover of the county the same
amount which he could have recovered of the Sheriff for an in.

voluntary escape.

ARTICLE III.
or F1. M's—How strsn AND Paocsanmes’ rasason.

Sac-non. Samoa.
3569. What levy must contain. 3572. Notice of levy on land.
3570. On what to be levied first. 3573. Land where sold exception.

3571. Growmg crops exempt-exceptions. 3574. Constable levying on land, to.

§ 3569. The officer making a levy shall always enter the same
on the process by virtue of which such levy is made, and in such
entry shall plainly describe the property levied on, and the
amount of the interest of defendant therein.
, §3570. When a defendant in fa. shall point out any property on which to levy the execution, such property being in the
hands or posession of a person not a party to the judgment from
which such execution issued, the Sheriff or other odicer shall not
levy thereon, but shall proceed to levy 0,11 such property as may
be found in the hands and possession of the defendant, who shall
nevertheless be at liberty to point out what part of his property
he may think proper, which the Sheriff or other officer shall be
bound to take and sell first, if the same is, in the opinion of such
levying oliicer, suilicient to satisfy such judgment and costs.

§3571. No Sheriff or other oilicer shall levy on any growing
crop of corn, wheat, oats, rye, rice, cotton, potatoes, or any other
crop usually raised or cultivated by the planters or farmers of
this State, nor sell the same until such crop shall be matured and
fit to be gathered; Provided, this provision shall not prevent any
levying officer from levying on and selling crops as heretofore
practiced in cases where the debtor absconds, or removes from
the county or State, or from selling growing crops with the land.

§3572. The oHicer levying on land under an execution, shall
within five days thereafter leave a written notice of such levy
with the tenant in possession of the land, if any, or with the defendant if in the county, or transmit such notice by mail to the
defendant within the time aforesaid.

§ 357 3. A Sheriff or other levying officer shall not sell land out'
of the county in which he is Sheriff, or such officer, except when:
the defendant in execution shall own a tract or tracts of land
divided by the line of the county of his residence, in which case
it may he sold in the county of his residence, or if such tract of
land is in other than that of the defendant’s residence, it may be
levied on and sold in either county; and in all cases of levying}
on land, written notice of such levy must be given to the tenant
in possession, and to the defendant if not'in possession.

§3574. No Constable (except as provided by this Code) shall
be authorized to levy on any real estate or negrocs, unless there‘i
is no other personal estate to be found sufficient to satisfy the:
debt, or such real estate or negroes being in the possession of the
defendant, were pointed out by such defendant, which he has a
right to do, and then such Constable is authorized to levy on such
real estate or negroes, if to be found in his county, and deliver.
over the execution to the Sheriff of the county, with a return of i

the property levied upon, who shall proceed to advertise and sell‘
the same as in case of' levies made by himself.

 

ARTICLE IV.
or SALES UNDER EXECUTION—WHEN AND WHERE MADE. ‘

SECTION. ‘ gSscrxox.
3575. Place, time, and manner of sales. 3580. Widow claiming dower and lessee.
3576. Notice of Sheriff sales. . t 3581. Execution for purchase money.
3577. Change of advertising. , 3582. Purchaser failing to comply.

3678. Purchaser to be put in possession.f 3583. Action against purchaser.
3679. May be obtained by order of court.

§3575. No sales shall be made by Sheriffs or Coroners, of
property taken under execution, but at the court-house of the
county where such levy was made, on the first Tuesday in each
month, and between the hours of ten A. M., and four P. M., and
at public outcry. § 3576. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff and Coroners to give
thirty days’ notice in some newspaper published in their countiesl
respectively, and if there be no such paper published in thej
county, then in the nearest newspaper having the largest, or a
general circulation in such county, of all such sales of land and
other property executed by him, in which advertisement he shall
give a full and complete description of the property to be sold,

 

 

’ making known the name of the plaintifff and defendant, and the

llperson who may be in the possession of such property ;. except

’- horses, hogs and cattle, which may be sold at any time by the

consent of the defendant. In which case it shall be the duty of

such officer to give the plaintifff ten days’ notice thereof, and also
to advertise the same at three or more public places in the county
where such property may be, at least ten days before the sale.

§3577. No Sheriff, Coroner, or other oiiicer shall change the
advertising connected with his oilice from one paper to another,
without first giving notice of his intention to do so in the paper
in which his advertisements may have been published.

_ § 3578. When any Sheriff or other ofiiccr shall sell any real
estate, by virtue of, and under any execution, it shall be the duty
of such Sheriff, or other levying oilicer, upon application, to put
the purchaser, his agent or attorney in possession of the real estate sold; Provided, that the provisions of this Code shall not
authorize the officer to turn out any other person than the defendant, his heirs or their tenants or assignees since the judgment.

' §357 9. If the purchaser of real estate at Sheriff ’s and other ,_ sales under execution, shall fail to make application for possession

thereof until the next term of the Superior Court after such sale

takes place, or until the officer making such sale goes out of office, such possession can only be obtained under an order of said

Superior Court. _

§3580. The widow of . the defendant claiming dower cannot be
dispossessed of the mansion, nor can a lessee whose lease is older
than the judgment under which the sale was made, be dispossessed under the provisions of the two preceeding sections.

§3581. When any judgment shall be rendered in any of the

.. courts of this State upon any note, or other evidence of debt given
for the purchase money of land, when titles have not been made
but a bond for titles given, it shall and may be lawful for the obligor in said bond to make and file, and have recorded in the Clerk’s

e office of the Superior Court of the county wherein the land lies,

P a good and sufficient deed of conveyance to the defendant for said

0 land, and if the said obligor be dead, then his executor or administrator may, in like manner, make and file such deed, without
obtaining an order of the court for that purpose; whereupon the
same may be levied on and sold under said judgment as in other
cases; Provided, that the said judgment shall take lien upon the

it

land prior tn any otherjudgment er ineumlnamm against the.
defendant.

 

$335.23.. .Xny person “he may lawman the purchaser ni'any real
ul' l')(!l‘.~#thll:‘l.l estate at any sale which may he. made at public ontrl'y by any Sheriff n1'<_:tl1e1' ulllt'cl‘. under and by virtue of any
execution nr other legal process. and shall fail er refuse tn comply
with the tel'lns nl'snt-ll sale when requested s0 In (lo. shall he liable. fur the amount of such purchase Imrney. and it shall he at the
uptinn ot' sin-h Ella-rill or other niliz-er. either tn lvrm-eetl against
such purchaser for llll" full amount «11" thepnrvhase money. or
tune-sell sueh real nr persnnal estate and then proceed against
the 'lirst purchaser hr the t.leli¢-ie11t-y arising; from such sale.

hr' ..

Slaw}. 'l‘he :U‘linll lii‘n‘x'llll'll for in the preceding serrti:._:n Ill:l\'

he. ln'unght in the name. nt'the Sheriff or other ulllt'el' making: the
sale. for the 11sent'thi- jnlaintiif or defendant in execution, nl' anv
uther person in interest as the. ease may he.

ARTICLE V.
or THE SATISFACTION OF nxscurroxs.

Scenes. 'Sac'nox.
3584. Levy on personalty unexplained. l 3586. Fund applied to younger fi. fa.

3585. Release of property subject.  3587. Agreement not to enforcejudgment

§3584. A levy upon personal property suiiicient to pay the
debt unaccounted for, is prima facie evidence of satisfaction to
the extent of the value of such property, and the dismissal of
such levy unexplained is an abandonment of the lien so far as
third persons are concerned. ’

§ 3585. If the plaintifff in execution for a valuable consideration
releases property which is subject thereto, it is a satisfaction of
such execution to the extent of the value of the property so released, so far as purchasers and creditors are concerned.

§3586. If an execution creditor, having the older lien on afund
in the hands of the Sheriff or other odicer, allows each fund by
his consent to be applied to a younger fa., it shall be consider-t
ed an extinguishment pro tanto of such creditor’s lien so far as
third persons may be concerned.

§358'7. An agreement for a valuable consideration never to;
' enforce a judgment or execution, releases the judgment orj
execution. *

 

CHAPTER II.
or TEE STAY OF EXECUTIons.

Saunas. gSao-rmx.
3588. Defendant may stay execution. l 3590. Security to have control—when.

3589. Ff. fa. to be stayed 60 days.

§3588. In all cases in the Superior or Inferior Court where a
.verdict shall be rendered, the party against whom the same may
be, may, either in open court or in the Clerk’s office, within four
days after the adjournment thereof, enter into bond with good
and sutiicient security, for the payment of such verdict or judgment and costs within sixty days.

§3589. Bond and security being given as provided in the pre—
ceding section, the verdict and udgment, or the execution there—
’on, shall be suspended for the said sixty days, and if the party
shall fail to pay the said verdict or judgment within that time,
execution shall then issue against such party and his security
without farther proceedings thereon.

§3590. The security paying off such judgment or execution,
shall have control thereof.

—_

CHAPTER III.

or THE ILLEGALITY 0F EXECUTIONS.

SECTION. ',SE0T10N.
3591. Illegality—how taken. ' 3595. May be sold under other f1 f as.
3592. No illegality before levy and arrest. 3596. Who may file affidavit.
3593. Proceedings stayed, and returned 3597. Illegality notto go behind judgment
3594. Damages if for delay only.

§3591. When an execution against the property or against the
body of any person shall issue illegally, or shall be proceeding
illegally, and such execution shall be levied ‘on property or the
body of the defendant shall be arrested by virtue thereof, such
person may make oath in writing, and shall state the cause of
such illegality and deliver the same to the Sheriff or other executing officer, as the case may be, together with bond and good security for the forthcoming of such property as provided by this
Code, 'or for the appearance of the defendant as provided in cases
of insolvent debtors.

$3592. No affidavit of illegality shall be received by any

 

Sheriff or other executing odicer until a levy or an arrest has:
been made, as the case may be. $3593. When the levy or arrest shall have been made, and af- r
’fidavit and bond delivered to the officer, as herein provided, it:
shall be the duty of such oiiicer to suspend further proceedings:
on such execution, and return the said execution, affidavit and
“bond, to the next term of the court from which the execution
issued, and it shall be the duty of said court to determine there-A
on, at the first term thereof, unless the plaintiii', or his attorney“
desire to controvert the facts contained in said aiiidavit, in which}
case an issue shall be joined, which issue shall be tried by a jury,
at the same term, unless good cause is shown for a continuance.

§3594. Upon the trial of an issue formed on an affidavit of il-1
legality, filed in the Superior or Inferior Courts, the jury tryingi
the case shall have power to assess such damages, not exceeding1
twenty-five per cent., as may seem reasonable and just, upon the
principal debt, provided it shall be made to appear that such
illegality was interposed for delay only.

“‘§ 3595. When an execution has been levied on property, and
an affidavit of illegality filed, to stay proceedings thereon, the
property so levied on, shall be subject to levy and sale under
other executions, and the officer making the first levy shall claim,
receive, hold and retain, such amount of the proceeds of the
sale, as the court shall deem suliicient to pay the execution first
levied, including interest up to the time of the court at which
said illegality shall be determined ; and any bond given by the
defendant, on iiling such affidavit, shall be released and discharged, so far as relates to the property sold. _

§3596. An affidavit, of illegality, may be filed by an attorney
in fact, or an executor, administrator, or other trustee.

§3597. If the defendant has not been served, and does not
appear, he may take advantage of the defect, by affidavit of illegality; but if he has had his day in court, he cannot go behind
the judgment, by an affidavit of illegality.

CHAPTER IV.
or FORTHCOMING BONDS.

Ssonox. 'Szc'rrox.
3598. Forthcoming bonds may be taken. i 3600. Shall not prejudice plaintifffs.
3599. All bonds to officers, good.

. §3598. When an execution shall be levied on personal property, and an illegality filed thereto, as provided by this Code, and
the party nling such illegality desires to take or keep possession
of such property, he shall deliver to the Sheriii', or other levying
officer, a bond, payable to the levying officer, with good security, in a sum equal to double the value of the property so
levied upon, to be judged of by the levying oiiicer, conditioned for the delivery of the property levied upon at the
time and place of sale, in the event that such illegality shall be
dismissed by the court, or withdrawn, which bond shall be recoverable in any court having cognizance thereof.

§3599. All bonds taken by the Sheriff's, or other executing
officers, from the defendants in execution, for the delivery of
property on the day of sale, or at any other time, which they
may have levied on, by virtue of any  fa., or other legal process, from any court, shall be good and valid in law, and recoverable in any court in this State having jurisdiction thereof.

§3600. No bond, taken in conformity with the previous section shall, in any case, prejudice or affect the rights of plaintifff
in execution, but shall relate to, and have effect alone, between
the officer to whom it is given and the defendant in execution ;
and such officer shall, in no case, excuse himself for not having
made the money on an execution, by having taken such bond,
but shall be liable to be ruled, as now prescribed by law.

TITLE VII.
cosrs IN CIVIL casss.

CHAPTER 1. Costs in civil cases.
CHAPTER 2. Fees of officers of court.

 

CHAPTER 1.
OF cosrs IN CIVIL casss.

ARTIcLE 1. How taxed.
ARTICLE 2. How collected.

ARTICLE 1.
HOW TAXED.

\

82011024. plumes.
3601. Party failing liable for costs. 3605. When costs to be paid in advance.
3602. Attorney liable for neglect. 3606. Costs in slander cases.
3603. When liable in other cases. 3607. Costs in personal actions.
3604. Cost, when recovery less than $50. 3608. Costs of witnesses.

 

§36OL In all civil cases, in any of the courts of this State,1
(except as provided for by this Code,) the party who shall dis-i
continue, fail or be cast in such suit, shall be liable for the costs
thereof.

§3602. If any plaintifff shall be non-suited, or cast, by reason.
of the willful neglect or misconduct of his attorney, such attor-i
ney shall be liable for the costs which may have accrued in such
case ; and in like manner, if any defendant shall be cast, by reason of the willful neglect or misconduct of his attorney, such attorney shall be liable for the costs thereof.

§3603. When any attorney shall institute a suit in any of the.
courts of this State, for any person who resides out of this State;
such attorney shall be liable to pay all costs of the officers of
court, in case such suit shall be dismissed, or the plaintifff be cast
in his suit.

§360~L When any action at cont/racist, shall be brought to the
Superior or Inferior Courts, and the verdict of the jury un-‘
reduced, by matter of set-off, or payment pending the action,
shall be for a sum under fifty dollars, the defendant shall not be
charged with more costs than would have necessarily accrued, if

such case had been before a Justice of the Peace, and the remainder of the court charges shall be paid by the plaintifff, and
may be retained out of the sum recovered by the plaintifff, and,
if that is insufficient, judgment shall be entered by the court
against such plaintifff, for the balance.
§3605. When the plaintifff and his attorney both reside out of
lthe limits of this State, the proper officers may demand their
full costs before they shall be bound to perform any service, in
any cause about to be commenced by such non-resident attorney
or plaintifff. '
§3606. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words, in
any court having jurisdiction of the same, if the jury shall render a verdict under ten dollars, then the plaintifff in such action.
shall have and recover no more costs than damages.
§3607. In actions of assault and battery, and in all other per’sonal actions, wherein the jury upon the trial thereof shall nnd’
the damages to be less than ten dollars, the plaintifff shall re—
cover no more costs than damages, unless the Judge at the trial
thereof, shall find and certify on the record, that an aggravated
assault and battery was proved.
. §3608. No party, plaintifff or defendant, shall be liable for the
'costs of any witness of the adverse party, unless such witness
was subpoanaed, sworn and examined on the trial of said cause,
(or the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses his cause before trial) and
no party shall be liable for the costs of more than two witnesses
fto the same point, unless the court shall certify that the question
at issue was of such a character as rendered a greater number of
witnesses necessary to a single point.

 

ARTICLE 11.
HOW COLLECTED.

I

Samoa. I {Samoa
3609. When cost demandable. 3611. Plaintiff liable—attorney liable.
3610. Costs included in judgment. 3612. Judgment against attorney for cost.

_ § 3609. The manner of collecting costs in all civil cases in any
of the courts in this State (except as otherwise provided in this
Code) shall be as follows: The several officers of courts are hereby prohibited from demanding the costs in any civil case, or any

part thereof, until after judgment in the same, except as previded in the case of non-resident plaintifffs and attorneys. ’

§3610. When a case is disposed of, the costs of the same, in:
cluding fees of Witnesses, shall be included in the judgment
against the party dismissing, being non-suited or east. *

§3611. If the plaintifff should recover a judgment against the«
defendant, and execution issue thereon, and the executing oiiieer"
shall return the same “ no prepert'y to be found,” a  fa. or 00.1
ea. may issue against such plaintifff for the purpose of making
said cost out of him ; and if the plaintifff resides out of the
State, the fa. shall issue against the attorney also.

§3612. In all caSes in which it is made to appear that an at-1
torney is liable for costs by the provisions of this Code, the court?

shall, on motion, order a judgment and execution against him for
the same. ‘ ' '

CHAPTER II.

FEES OF OFFICERS OF COURT.

arm-Ion. gSseron.
3613. Fees of Clerk of Supreme Court. 1 3624. Fees of Constables.
3614. Judges may increase or diminish. 3625. Fees of Coroners.
3615. Fees of Sheriff of Supreme Court. I 3626. Fees of County Surveyors.
3616. Contingent expenses of Sup’e. C’t. 3627. Fees of County Treasurers.
3617. Contingent expenses of Sup’r. C’al 3628. Fees of Notaries Public.
3618. Fees of Ordinary.  3629. Fees not to be charged to the State.

3619. Fees of Clerks of Superior Courts.I 3630. Statement of fees maybedemanded.
3620. Fees of Clerks of Inferior Courts.‘ 3631. Charging fees unlawfully.

3621. Fees of Sherili‘s. i 3632. Table of fees to be kept in ethos.
3622. Fees of Jailors. 3633. Treble costs—suits vs. officers.
3623. Fees of Justices of the Peace. l 3634. Dismissal from oilice.

§3613. The Clerk of the Supreme Court is entitled to the fol-;
lowing fees, to wit : ‘

For each case entered and carried to judgment . . . . . . . $3 75
For recording bills of exception, for every 100 words. . 124}
For recording opinion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 50
For remitter, including certificate and seal . . . . . . . . . . 1 25

§3614. The Judges of the Supreme Court may, on application
of any practicing attorney of the court, decrease such bill of costs,:
or, on the application of the Clerk, increase it, or add other
items thereto. Due notice in writing must be given of the

grounds of the motion, and the decision announced by one of
the Judges in open court.

m

fees following, to wit:
|_ For each case entered and carried to judgement . . . . . . . $1 25
Such fee must be charged in the bill of costs, collected by the
Clerk and paid to the Sheriff.

§3616. Any contingent expenses incurred in holding the several sessions of the Supreme Court, for lights, fuel, rent, and stationery, &c., shall be paid to the Clerk of said court, out of the
State Treasury, on the certificate of the Judges thereof, as to the
necessity and fact of such expenditure.

§3617. Any contingent expenses incurred in holding any ses., sion of the Superior Court, including the above, and similar
items, such as taking down testimony in cases of felony, 620.,
shall be paid out of the county treasury of such county, upon
the certificate of the Judge of the Superior Court, and without
further order.
k $3618. The Ordinaries are entitled to the following fees, to

wit :

For receiving application, and granting citation . . . . . . . $1 25
For taking and recording administrators’ or guardians’

bond”... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 00
For issuing letters of administration or letters testamentary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50
For recording the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For copying the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ‘50
For signing warrant of appraisement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For receiving an appraisement or sale hill, and recording

the same, if under five hundred dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

If above five hundred dollars, and under two thousand 1 25
If above two thousand, and under ten thousand dollars 1 50
If above ten thousand and under twenty thousand dollars 1 75
If above twenty thousand, and under iifty thousand dol- 2 00

lars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
If above fifty thousand dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 50
For receiving application and granting letters dismissery,

whole service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 00
For granting citation to show cause why administration

should not be set aside or repealed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
For entering a. cath against administration being granted or will proven . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 25

For each copy of cave-at . . . . . . . . . .  . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For every marriage license . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50
For every order for sale of land, negroes, or other property . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For each copy of the same. . . ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

For issuing letters of guardianship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For recording the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For rule ni si, in each case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . r. . 50

For cepy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For issuing process against a person for not making returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For each additional copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
For each subpoena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ~ 15
For examining and recording returns on all ,estates not

worth more than two thousand dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

' For all estates worth more than two, and not more than '

five thousand dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 25
For all estates worth more than five and not over ten

thousand dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 40
For all estates worth more than ten thousand dollars. . 1 60
For recording all vouchers accompanying returns of ad-‘

ministrators, executors, and guardians, per 100 words A 12
For recording any instrument of writing not mentioned,

per 100 words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

For proceedings to authorize titles to be made to lands
of deceased persons, to be paid out of the estate of the

deceased . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 00
For commission to free holders to divide estate . . . . . . . . 1 25
For each certificate and seal. . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
For entering an appeal and transmitting the proceedings

to the Superior Court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50

- For registration of every free person of color, every legal

requirement included . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 00

For nling and recording an official bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For services as treasurer of the school fund and secretary
of the board of education not exceeding 5 per cent.
For services in making settlement of accounts of any
executors, administrator or guardian as prescribed in
this Code . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 10 00
For each  fa. issued by him . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
§3619. The Clerks of the Superior Courts are enfiled to the

“following fees, to wit:

1. In civil cases——
For every suit settled by the parties in vacation. . . . .
- If settled at court or non-suited, and the recording on
minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every writ where there is more than one defendant,
after first copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every suit commenced, and prosecuted to judgment.
' including service for recording petitition, process and
judgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every subpoena ticket . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For writ of partition of land and recording proceedings
For recording proceedings in civil cases, per hundred
words . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every exempliiication, per 100 words . . . . . . . . . . ..
For recording articles of partnership under the law regulating limited partnerships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording incorporation of joint stock and other incorporated companies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording incorporation of charitable or religious associations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For proceedings to forfeit a charter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording proceedings in change of name . . . . . . . . .
For furnishing and certifying any bill, process, order, &c.
in equity, for publication. . . . . . . . . . . . ; . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording notice of carpenters’ and masons’ liens. . ; .
In trials of nuisance and recording proceedings . . . . . . . .

For rule ’08. garnishee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For issuing commission to examine witness . . . . . . . . . . .

For recording deeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For every hundred words over 300 words thereof . . . . . .
For recording any instrument of writing not specified,
per 100 words .' . . .I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every foreclosure of any mortgage of personalty, including execution and recording proceedings . . . . . . . .
For every foreclosure of any mortgage of realty, including execution and recording proceedings . . . . . . . . . . .
For every claim case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every affidavit to hold to bail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording and copying proceedings in chancery and
bills of exception and transcript to the Supreme Court,
per 100 words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$2 00
3 00
60:

6 00!
15

500

15
10500'

O!

888 8

5
10
1

r-H—lmHt—t

 

For recording remitter, order and udgment of the Sn. preme Court on minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For issuing fa. or ca. 8a., each . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For certificate and seal, each . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For We to make parties, original . . . . . . . . . . .A . . . 1 50

For copies of each . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For recording order on minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 5

For issuing jury script, each . . . . . t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L . . . 10
For inspection of books where their aid is required. . . . . 25
For examination of books and abstract of result . . . . . . . . 1 00
For each appeal if settled before verdict . . . . . . , . . . . . . . 1 25
For each appeal if prosecuted to verdict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 50
For entering every motion on the minutes . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

Whenever services are required by the law of any officer of the
court, and no fee for such service is prescribed, the court shall tax
in the bill of costs a reasonable charge therefore.

2. In criminal cases—

For all bills of indictment, if settled by the parties or nol

pros’ , including service for docketing and recording

on the minutes and all other service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3 00
For every bill of indictment, when the defendant is arraigned, tried and found guilty, including all services 5 00
For transcribing record and evidence in State cases, per

100 words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

For recording forfeiture of bond on minutes . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For issuing wire after forfeiture (original) . . . . . . . 1 50

For each copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 00

For issuing subpoenas in State cases, each . .' . . . . . . . . . . 15

§3620. The Clerks of the Inferior Courts are entitled to the:
following fees, to wit: ‘

For each appeal to the Superior Court . . . . . . . . . . .  . . $2 001
For every estray horse, mule, or ass, for every legal ser‘ vice required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2 00
For every bull, ox, or cow, for all service required. . . . . 1 25
For every goat, hog or sheep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

For retailer’s bond . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For retailer’s license . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For copying and administering oath to retailer . . . . . . . . 50

For each peddler’s license . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 25
For filing and recording eaCh bond the law requires. . . 1 00

~For recording mark and brands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For comparing and testing weights  and
stamping or marking. each . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

For all the proceedings for making a Notary Public. . . . 5 00
For any service lawfully performed that is also performable,

by the Clerks of the Superior Courts, the same fees as said Clerks.
§3621. The Sheriii‘s are entitled to the fees following, 'to-wit:
1. In civil cases—

For serving a copy of a process and returning original

per copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $2 00
If suit from another county . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
For summoning each witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For summoning jury and attending trial to assess damages for right of way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 00

For service in every case before a special jury . . . . . . . . . ‘ 1 25

For each levy on single fa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' 2 00

For each levy if more than one, on each levied . . . . . . . . 1 00

For search and return of nulch bona. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For conducting a debtor under confinement before a

judge or court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For serving rule '08. garnishee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 1 00
If more than one, for each additional copy . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For summoning jury to try case of nuisance . . . . . . . . . . 3 00

For removing nuisances, such fees as the court may deem
reasonable. .
For summoning the juries to each term to be paid by the
county . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 00
All sums when the amount collected on execution by
sale of property does not exceed fifty dollars and under,
5 per cent.
For all sums above fifty dollars and not exceeding $500,
2% per cent.
For all sums exceeding five hundred dollars, 11- per cent. I
No commissions shall be charged unless the property is actually

sold.

For making out and executing titles to land . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 50
If presented by the purchaser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For making out and signing bill of sale of property. . . . 1 25

Provided no fee shall be allowed but for one bill of sale, when
it will be sufiicient to convey the property to the purchasers, unv
less they should otherwise require.

For taking bail bonds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For forthcoming bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
In issues on application of insolvent debtors for service
not in term time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For executing process, dispossessing tenant holding nnder
plea of rent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For settling execution, if property be levied on and money
paid before sale. . . .
For keeping a horse, mare, mule or ox, per day . . . . . . . .
For keeping each head of neat cattle per day . . . . . . . . . .
For keeping sheep, goats or hogs, per day . . . . . . . . . . . . .
F or following property, with attachment, out of the
county, going and returning, per mile . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. In criminal cases
For re-committing any prisoner when a lea-bees corpus is
sought for his relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every mile a prisoner may be removed under a 7mbeas corpus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
For removing a prisoner by [taboo-s enzyme, when no
mileage is paid, per da}r . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For attending a person taken by warrant to the J ndge’s
chamber . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For conducting a prisoner before a Judge, or court, to
and from jail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For executing warrant of escape . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For exe :uting and returning a bench warrant . . . . . . . . . .
For apprehending a person suspected, if committed or
held to bail . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
For each person, not exceeding two, who may be employed to guard a prisoner to jail, per day . . . . . . . . . .
For executing a criminal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For whipping, cropping or bramling a criminal . . . . . . . .
§3622. Jailors are entitled to the following fees, to
wit:
For receiving prisoner or debtor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For turning the key or discharging the prisoner, by virtue of habeas 0071mm, by order of the court, Judges
or Justice...............

I I I I I O I D q I I l t I O I I I I I I I I l I O 0

 

en
‘2

N)
O
a

L1

1 00

p—a.

00
1 25

1 50
10 00
5 00

60

60

For dieting a white person, per day, allowing two

pounds of bread, half pound beef, or one pound pork,

or half pound bacon, with suHiciency of coffee and

water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
For dieting negro criminal, per day, allowing one quart

cooked rice, or half pound bread, and half pound of

bacon, or half“ pound beef, with sufiiciency of water,

&c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
For dieting runaway negro, per day, allowing one pound corn bread, one pound pork, or one-half pound bacon,

with sufficiency of water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30
For dieting person confined for debt, per day, allowing

alsuf’riciency of wholesome provisions, water, &c. . . . . 50
For turning key on commitment of a prisoner . . . . . . . . . 60
For whipping negro with consent of owner, or without,

if necessary to his behavior or safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

Not more than thirty-nine lashes at any one whipping '
nor inhumanly with those, and not more than two such
whippings without the consent of the owner.
For dieting and keeping an insane slave, per month,

giving what is given a runaway slave . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 00

Or per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 4:0
Whenever jail fees are chargeable to the county, the

' same shall be paid monthly.

§3623. Justices of the Peace shall have the following
.fees, to wit:

1. In civil cases—

For each case tried by said Justices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
For a warrant or summons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
For affidavit to obtain an attachment or to hold to bail,

and taking the bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

For entering a judgment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

For each execution, ca. 8a., or attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . , 35

For drawing jury and making out list . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30

For each cause tried by said jury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
For affidavit to obtain a possessory warrant and making

out the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
For trying the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

For making out interrogatories and certifying the same 1 25
For making out recognizance and returning the same to

court . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

For each subpoena for witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For each affidavit, when there is no cause pending. . . . .
For every writ of certiorari to the Superior Court. . . . .
For presiding at trial of forcible entry, or detained, or

both—each trial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For presiding at each trial of right of way . . . . . . . . . . . .

For issuing rule to establish lost paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For trying the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

For presiding at trial of nuisance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For Witnessing any paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. In criminal cases—
F or taking examination of a person charged with a
criminal offense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For examining each witness in criminal cases. . ~ . . . . . . . .
For making out a commitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For trying slaves and free persons of color—for each offense, and for all the court costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
§3624. Constables’ fees shall be as follows, to wit:
For serving a warrant, summons, or attachment . . . . . .
For each additional copy of summons, warrant, or attachment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For summoging every witness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For each cause tried by a Justice or jury . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For attending each trial in Justice court . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For summoning a jury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For levying a ca. 8a. or  fa., and advertising . . . . . . . .

For settling  fa. when the property is not sold . . . . . .

For return n-ulla 507w . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For conveying negro under execution, to and from jail,
per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For attending Superior Court, per mile . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For summoning jury on inquest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..

For collecting execution issued by Coroner . . . . . . . . . . . .

For keeping a horse, mule, ass, or ox, per day . . . . . . . . .

For each head of neat cattle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For sheep, goats, or hogs, per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On all sales made by him, 6} per centum on amounts

‘ sold.
For attending a grand jury, per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Y

15
30
60

1 00
1 00
35
35
1 00
25

5O
3O
35

300

35

3O

30
35
75
35

3O
30

100
100

75

'~25

100

For attending grand jury, for each bill found, to be paid

by delinquent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
For serving a warrant in criminal cases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 25
For keeping and maintaining a prisoner before examination, not exceeding twenty-four hours . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
For serving rule to establish lost paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
For every additional copy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
For following property with attachment out of county,

going and returning, per mile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5
For whipping a negro by judgment of a court . . . . . . . . 1 00

§3625. Coroner's’ fees are as follows to wit:
For summoning an inquest on a dead body and returning the inquisition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. $10 00
For furnishing cofiin and burial expenses . . . . . . . . . . .. 15 00
When performing the duties of a Sheriff, his fees are the same
as the Sheriff. '
§3626. County Surveyors’ fees are as follows, to wit:
 surveying a town lot and returning a certificate

thereof... . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $1 25
For surveying a tract of land of or under 100 acres . . . . . . 3 50
For each hundred acres after the first . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For making a plat, recording, advertising and transmitting the same to the Surveyor General’s oiiice. . . . 1 25
For entering a caveat, advertising and giving a certified

copy thereof . . . . a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . 2 00
For attending trial of the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For each postponement to be paid by the postponing

party . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
For recording judgment and giving certified copy thereof 60

For entering an appeal and giving certified copy thereof 1 25
For a re-survey of land by order of court, of or under 100

acres, for the first 100 acres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 50
For every hundred acres after the first . . . . . .  . . . . .. 1 00
For every other re-survey of the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For making and certifying a plat thereof and transmitting the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 . 1 25

Running line between counties, districts, or making new
lines, per day, he furnishing the ehainbearer and provisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $8 00

 

§3627. County Treasurers’ fees are as follows, to wit:
Upon all amounts received, and paid out by him 2:} per
cent.
For making his returns to the grand jury . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For making his returns to Justices of the Inferior Court. 1 00
§ 3628. The fees of Notaries Public are as follows, to wit :

For every protest, oath included . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
For noting a protest, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For registering a protest, per copy sheet, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1(
For copy of a protest, .per copy sheet, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1(
For administering an oath in any case,. . . . ..  . . . . . . . 3(
For each attendance on any person, to make proof as a
Notary Public, and certifying the same . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 O(
For every other certificate, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5(

The cost of registering is likewise a charge against the party
noted and protested, and must be charged in the costs at the
same time, and. paid to the Notary by the party for whose bene
fit the noting and protesting was done. All other registering
must be paid for by the party who has the service performed
The fees for all oi‘ncial acts, which the Notary is allowed to per
form, are the same as those prescribed for any other officers whc
are likewise permitted to perform them.

§ 3629. No'ne of the fees hereinbefore expressed shall be charged to the State for failure to collect out of the person charged,
unless otherwise expressly declared, or in their nature must necessarily be so paid.- '

§ 3630. Every public officer and person herein mentioned, theil

deputy or agent, shall, when required, give a statement of the
fees demanded, and a receipt for the same to any person paying
any lawful or pretended fees of odice, on pain of ten dollars for
every such neglect or refusal, to be sued for within twelve months
and recovered by the person paying the fees and making the demand.

§3631. If such oiiicers or person shall take or demand any
greater fee than the law allows, or fee for services not performed,
he forfeits nfty dollars, to be sued for and recovered as prescribed in the pmmeding section. '

 30:32. lit-cry publit' oilicer must constantly keep in a conspicutms place in his milieu, or place where he usually executes
the Imam-:55 tlwrcm', a table of his fees in fair words and figures,
and on lltlllll't: to do so. he forfeits one dollar per day for every

 

day he so neglects, to be recovered at the suit of any informer,to
whom the whole recovery shall go.

5 §3633. When public officers are sued on account of the provisions of this chapter, and there is a verdict in their favor, the
persons sueing shall pay three times the ordinary costs.

§3634. Any public oiiicer who shall charge or take fees not
allowed by law, or fer service not performed, shall, on conviction
or proof thereof, be dismissed from office.

TITLE VIII.
or NEW TRIALS.

CHAPTER I.
or NEW TRIALS.

ARTICLE 1. By whom, and for what causes allowed.
ARTICLE 2. When, where and how tried.

ARTICLE I.
BY WHOM, AND FOR WHAT causes ALLOWED.

SECTION. | SECTION.
3635. What court may grant new trialsl 3641. Verdict against evidence.

3636. Sup’r. Courts may correct errors, (tel 3642. Judge may grant on other grounds .

3637. Verdict contrary to ev1dence.’ . 3643. Application—when made.
3638. Evidence illegally admitted, 3:0. I 3644. Another Judge may grant.
3639. Erroneous charge of the court. a 3645. Motion after adjournment. Notice.

3640. Newly discovered evidence. l

§ 3635. New trials can be granted by the Superior Courts only ;
the Inferior Courts have no such power.
' §3636. The several Superior Courts of this State shall have
power to correct errors, and grant new trials in any cause depending in any of the said Superior Courts, in such manner and
under such rules and regulations as they may establish according
to law and the usuages and customs of courts.

§ 3637. In any case when the verdict of a special jury is found
.contrary to evidence and the principles of justice and equity, the
presiding Judge may grant a new trial before another special

jury.

I:

 

§3638. The Superior Courts may grant new trials in all cases,:
when any material evidence may be illegally admitted to, or ills-3
gally withheld from the jury, against the demand of the appli-‘
cant.

§3639. A new trial may be granted in all cases when the pro-:
siding Judge may deliver an erroneous charge to the ury against,1
such applicant on a material point, or refuse to give a pertinent
legal charge in the language requested, when the charge so requested is submitted in writing.

§ 36-10. A new trial may be granted in all cases, when any ma-I
terial evidence, not merely cumulative in its character, but re-j
lating to new and material facts, shall be discovered by the applicant after the rendition of a verdict against him, and shall be
brought to the notice of the court within the time now allowed
by law for entering a motion for a new trial.

§3641. The presiding Judge may exercise a sound discretion
in granting or refusing new trials in cases where the verdict may.
be decidedly and strongly against the weight of evidence, although there may appear to be some slight evidence in favor of
the finding.

§3642. In all applications for a new trial on other grounds, not
provided for in this Code, the presiding Judge must exercise a
sound legal discretion in granting or refusing the same, accord—
ing to the provisions of the common law and practice of the courts.

§3643. All applications for a new trial, except in extraordinary cases, must be made during the term at which the trial was
had, but may be heard, determined, and returned in vacation.

§3644. A Judge may decide a motion for a new trial who did
not try the case, either when he is presiding in the court in which,1
the motion is pending, or when he is named in the rule. ‘

§3645. In case a of motion for a new trial made after the ad—;
journment of the court, some good reason must be shown why}
the motion was not made during the term, which shall be judged'

of by the court. In all such cases, twenty days’ notice shall be
given to the opposite party.

ARTICLE II.
WHEN, WHERE AND HOW TRIED.

Snc'rrox. szorrox.
3646. Triable at next term. I 3648. Copy rule m‘ site be served.
3647. By a special jury. ‘ 3649. Superseadeas by order.

§3646. When a new trial has been granted by the Superior
Court, the case shall stand upon the docket for trial at the next
term as though no trial was had, and if said new trial is ordered
by the Supreme Court, said case shall stand for trial at the next
term of said Superior Court after the remitter is returned from
the Supreme Court, and in like manner subject to the rules for
continuances provided in this Code.

§3647. All new trials shall be had by a special jury as provided
in cases of appeals.

§3648. In all applications for a new trial the opposite party
shall be served with a copy of the rule ml 323, unless such c opy is
waived. '

§3649. A rule m: 313 for a new trial shall not operate as a supersedeas, unless so ordered by the court. In which case the
court may demand bond and security for the eventual condemnation money, when the exigency of the case requires it.

TITLE IX.
or CLAIMS.

CHAPTER 1. Of claims to property in execution.
CHAPTER 2. At other judicial sales. \

CHAPTER I.
OF CLAIMS TO PROPERTY IN EXECUTION.

ARTICLE 1. How and by whom interposed.
ARTICLE 2. \Vhen, where and how tried.

ARTICLE 1.
HOW AND BY WHOM INTERPOSED.
Smrox. ' SECTION.
3650. Claims to be made an oath. l 365-1. To whom bonds payable.
3651. Bond and security. ' 3655. Bond recoverable—when & where.
3652. Officer must postpone sale. ‘ 3656. Partners, be, claiming.

3653. Claimant give forthcoming bond. 1 3657. Tax fi. fa. claim—where tried.

§3650. When any Sheriif or other officer shall levy an execu-l
tion on property claimed by a third person, not a party to such:
execution, such person, his agent or attorney, shall make oath to
such property.

§3651. The person claiming suCh property, or his agent or attorney, shall give bond to the Sheriif or other officer, as the case
may be, with good and sufficient security, in a sum equal to donble the amount of the property levied upon, at a reasonable valuation, to be judged by the levying oiiicer, conditioned to pay the
plaintifff all damages which the ury on the trial of the right of
property may assess against him in case it should appear that
said claim was made for the purpose of delay only.

§3652. Affidavit and bond being made and delivered as re-,
quired in the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff
or other levying oiiicer to postpone the sale of said property until
otherwise ordered.

§3653. In all cases where a levy is made upon property that
is claimed by a third person, and such person shall desire the possession thereof, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff or other levying

officer to take bond with good security, for a sum equal to double
the value of the property levied on, to be estimated by the levying officer for the delivery of such property at the time and place
of sale, provided the property so levied upon shall be found subject to such execution.
§3654. The claim bond shall be made payable to the plaintifff
in execution, and the forthcoming bond shall be made payable to
the Sheriif.
. §3655. Bond and security being given as provided in the previous section, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff or other levying
oilicer to leave such property in the possession of such claimant,
and in case the said claimant or his security should fail to deliver
said property, said bond shall be made recoverable in any court
having cognizance of the same.
§3656. One of several partners or persons jointly interested,
may make the affidavit and execute the bond in the name of the
firm or persons jointly interested, who shall be bound thereby as
though each individual had signed it himself.
§3657. When any execution may be issued against any Tax
Collector or tax payer for taxes due the State, or any county
thereof, and the Sheriff or other oilicer shall levy the same on
property'claimed by a person not a party to such execution, such
claimant shall make oath as herein provided in the case of other
claims, and give bond as provided in section 818, and the same
proceedings shall be had thereon as provided for the trial of the
right of property, except that such trials shall be had in the county wherein the levy was made.

 

ARTICLE II.
WHEN, WHERE AND HOW TRIED.

SECTION. SECTION.
3658. To what court claim is returnable- 3662. Burden of proof.
3659.4 Levy on slaves by Justices’ Court. 3663. Withdrawal of claim.
3660. Tried by petit jury. 3664. Assessment of damages.
366]. Damages, if for delay only. 3665. Either party may appeal.

§3658. When an execution issued from the Superior or Infeirior Courts shall be levied upon personal property, and claimed
by a person not a party to such execution, as provided in this Code,
it shall be the duty of the levying oilicer to return the same, together with the execution, to the next term of the court from

which said exeeutien issued; but. should such exeeutien be levied
111nm real prnperty, and the same shall he claimed in nmuner
atl'u'esaitl. it shall he the (lnty et' the ultieer making the levy tn return the same, tl'lgethet' with the execution and (‘li'1l111,i't_"! the next
term ut' the Superiur (‘eurt et' the («utility in which the land so
levied 111nm shall lie.

Willie). “Then an executiuu l'a'mn a {linstiees' (l'eur't shall have.
been levied on nee er were slaves. and a. claim tn sueh slaves have:
been i!1tt_'l‘ln_1:1€1l as lll't..'\'ltll"tl lay this Cede. sur'lt exeenthm and
claim. shall he l'l.‘l111'l]t?1l tn the Silliel'inr hr l-Ili'Lil'lnl‘ Cem't. whichever may til-st. sit. in the munty in which Hit'll exmrutinn issued.

§3tititL The (-eul't to which :1(_-l:1l1:1 shall he returned. shall-r
cause the right of property in he decided on hr :1 petit ju 1")" atl
the lll'rrl term tlu-reul', unless ventinuetl as ether wisest at (ftjill'llilllhl‘.
law.

 i-itittl. livery jm'er on the trial ut' the elaim et'preperty. eitherreal er llt'f-I'rriol'ltll, exeept jurors in .JustivL's“ (hurt, shall he 5\Yt.|l‘ll;f
in addition to the oath usually administered, to give such damages,
not less than ten per cent., as may seem reasonable and just, to
the plaintifff against the claimant, in case it shall be sutiiciently
shown that such claim was made for delay only, and such juryi
may give a verdict in manner aforesaid, by virtue whereof judg-i
ment may be entered up against the claimant and his security
for the damages so assessed by the jury and the costs of the trial
of the right of property.

§ 3662. Upon the trial of all claims provided for in this chap-1
ter, the burden of proof shall lie upon the plaintifff in execution}
in all cases where the property levied on is, at the the time of
such levy, not in possession of the defendant in execution.

§3663. Whenever a claim of property is made in terms of :
this Code, and returned to the proper court by the Sheriff, or<‘
other levying officer, the claimant shall not be permitted to
withdraw or discontinue his said claim more than once, without the consent of the plaintifff in execution, or some person duly
authorized to represent such plaintifff ; but such court shall proceed to the trial of the claim of such property, and it shall be the
duty of the  to assess damages accordingly.

§3664. Upon the trial of claims to property which may be:
pending in the Superior or Inferior Courts, when damages shalll
be found by the‘ jury, the said damages shall be assessed upon
the whole amount then due upon the execution, provided the

 

value of the property. in dispute exceeds the amount of said execution, and upon the value of the property, when the value of
the property is less than the execution levied.

§3665. Either party in claim cases may appeal as in cases at common law.

CHAPTER II.
OF CLAIMS AT OTHER SALES.
SIC‘FION. l’Snorron.
3666. Land—how claimed, at ex’rs sale, 3668. Personalty—claim of.
3667. Where tried. « 3669. Claim postpones sale.

§ 3666. When an executor, or administrator, guardian, or other
trustee, shall advertise that it is his intention to apply for leave
to sell any real estate, as the property of his testator, intestate,
ward, or cestui gue trust, or having obtained such order, it may ,
be lawful for any person claiming such real estate, either by himself, his agent or attorney, to file in the Court of Ordinary an
affidavit claim to said property, a copy whereof shall be served on
such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, as the case

may be, previous to the day of sale.

§3667. Aflidavit having been made and filed, and notice having been given, as required in the preceding section, it shall be
the duty of the Ordinary to transmit such claim affidavit to the
next term of the Superior Court, of the county where the land
lies, and the right of property shall be there tried, upon an issue
made 11p in the same manner, and under the same regulations,
restrictions, and penalties, as are provided for the trial of claims
to property levied on by execution.- '

§3668. When any executor, administrator, guardian, or other
trustee, shall advertise to sell any personal property, as the property of his testator, intestate, ward, or cestui qua trust, and the
same shall be claimed on oath, and the claim affidavit shall have
been filed and served, as required in the first section of this
chapter, it shall be the duty of the Ordinary to transmit such
claim ai‘lidavit to the Superior or Inferior Court next to be held
after such claim is filed, in the county Where such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, resides. ‘

§3669. When a claim has been interposed, as provided in
the preceding sections, the sale of the property advertised and
claimed shall be postponed until after the termination of the
claim case.

TITLE X.
or EVIDENCE.

CHAPTER 1. General principles.
CHAPTER 2. Of the rules governing the admission of testimony.

CHAPTER 3. Of discovery from the parties. '
CHAPTER 4. Of records and other written- evidence.

CHAPTER 5. Of oral testimony.
CHAPTER 6. Of interrogatories and depositions.

CHAPTER 7. Of perpetuating testimony.

 

CHAPTER I.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
Sncuox. iSBCTION.
3670. Object of evidence. l 3675. Presumptions of law and facts.
3671. Sundry definitions. l 3676. Estoppcls.
3672. Mental conviction. 3677. Prima facte presumptions.

367 3. Same rules in all courts and cases.‘ 3678. Number of witnesses necessary.
3674. Matters judicially recognized. [

§3670. The object of all legal investigation is the discovery
of truth. The rules of evidence are framed with a view to this
prominent end—~seeking always for pure sources and the highest
evidence.

§3671. Competent evidence is that tvhich is admissible. Sufficient evidence is that which is satisfactory for the purpose.
Cumulative evidence is that which is additional to other already
obtained. Direct evidence is that which immediately points to
the question at issue. Indirect, or circumstantial evidence is
that which only tends to establish the issue, by proof of various
facts, sustaining by their consistency, the hypothesis claimed.
Presumptive evidence consists of inferences drawn by human
experience from the connection of cause and effect, and observations of human conduct.

§367 2. Moral and reasonable certainty is all that can be ex-.
pected in legal investigation. In all civil cases the preponder-i
ance of testimony is considered sufficient to produce mental conviction. In criminal cases a greater strength of mental conviction is held necessary to justify a verdict of guilty.

 

§3673. Generally, the rules of evidence are the same in all
the courts of this State, and upon every trial the exceptions exist only by express statute.

§3674. The existence and territorial extent of States, their
form of government, and symbols of nationality, the laws of nations and general customs of merchants, the admiralty and maritime courts of the world and their seals, the political constitution and history of our own Government, as well as the local
divisions of our own State, the seals of the several departments
of the Government of the Confederate States, and of the several
States of the Confederacy, and all similar matters of public knowledge are judicially recognized without the introduction of proof.

§3675. Presumptions are either of law or of fact. The former arc conclusions and inferences which the law draws from
given facts. The latter are exclusively questions for the jury, to
be decided by the ordinary test of human experience.

§3676. Presumptions of law are sometimes conclusive, and an
averment to the contrary will not be allowed. These are termed
estoppels, and are not generally favored. Among these are the
presumptions in favor of a record or judgment unreversed, of the
proper conduct of courts and judicial oiiicers acting within their
legitimate sphere. Of other ochers of the law after lapse of
time has rendered it dangerous to open the investigation of their
acts in regard to mere formalities of the law. Of ancient deeds,
and other instruments more than thirty years old, when they
come from the proper custody, and possession has been held in
accordance with them. Recitals in deeds, except payment of
purchase money as against the grantor acting in his own right,
and sui jure's and his privies in estate, blood and in law. The
landlord’s title, as against his tenant, while tenant in possession.
Solemn admissions made in judicio, and other admissions, upon
which other parties have acted, either to their own injury or the
benefit of the persons making the admissions, and similar cases
where it would be more unjust and productive of more evil to
hear the truth than to bear the investigation.

$3677. Other presumptions of law, such as of innocence, and
in some cases of guilt—of continuance of life for seven years, of
a mental state once proved to exist, and all similar presumptions
may be rebutted by proof.

§ 3678. The testimony of a single witness is generally sufficient
to establish a fact. Exceptions to this rule are made in specified

cases: such as to convict of treason of perjury; in any case of}
felony, where the only witness is an accomplice; and to rebut a1
responsive statement in an answer in equity—in these cases (except in treason) corroborating circumstances may dispense with

another witness.

CHAPTER II.
or RULES GOVERNING THE ADMISSION or TESTIMONY.

ARTICLE 1. General rules.

ARTIOLE 2. Of hearsay.
ARTICLE 3. Of admissions and confessions.
ARTICLE 4:. Of parol evidence to effect written.

 

ARTICLE I.
GENERAL RULES,
SECTION. SECTION.
3679. Must be relevant. ' 3686. Copies of wills and records.
3680. Character and conduct of parties. 3687. Ochers de facto.
3681. Burden of proof. _ 3688. Inscriptions on monuments, &c.
3682. Changing onus. I 3689. Other exceptions.
3683. Best evidence. 3690. Secondary evidence.
3684. Primary and secondary evidence. 3691. Degrees therein.
3685. Wntten evidence. 3692. Existence of original.

§367 9. The evidence must relate to the questions being tried
by the jury, and bear upon them either directly or indirectly.
Irrelevant matter should be excluded.

§ 3680. The general character of the parties, and especially their
conduct in other transactions, are irrelevant matter, unless the
nature of the action involves such character and renders necessary or proper the investigation of such conduct.

§3681. The burden of proof generally lies upon the party as.
serting or affirming a fact, and to the existence of whose case or
defense the proof of such fact is essential. If a negation or negative affirmation be so essential, the proof of such negative lies
on the party so affirming it.

§3682. What amount of evidence will change the arms or
burden Of proof, is a question to be decided in each case by the
sound discretion of the court.

§ 3683. The best evidence which exists of the fact sought to be
proved must be produced, unless its absence is satisfactorily accounted for.

l §3684. Primary evidence is such as in itself does not indicate
the existence of other and better proof. Secondary evidence is
such as from necessity in some cases is substituted for stronger
and better proof.

- §3685. Written evidence is considered of higher proof than
oral, and in all cases where the parties have reduced their contract, agreement or stipulation to writing, and assented thereto,
it is the best evidence of the same.

§ 3686. Copies of records of judicial proceedings, and wills admitted to probate, are admitted as primary evidence, when properly authenticated. In all other cases, a copy is secondary evidencc.

§3687. An oilicer de facto may be proved by his acts, without the production of his commission or appointment.

§3688. InscriptiOns on walls, monuments, and other hxed objects, may be proved by copies established as such.

§3689. Other cases of necessity, or manifest convenience,
resting on like principles of reason and justice, may be made exceptions to the general rule.

§3690. In order to admit secondary evidence, it must appear
that the primary evidence, for some suHicient cause, is not accessible to the diligence of the party. This showing is made to the

court who will hear the party himself, on the question of dili—
gence, and the inaccessibility of the primary evidence.

§3691. There are degrees in secondary evidence, and the best

should always be produced. Thus, a duplicate is better than a

copy, and an examined copy than oral evidence.

§3692. The existence of a genuine original, is essential to the
admissibility of a c0py. The amount of evidence to show such
existence, must vary with the circumstances of each case.

Where no direct issue is made upon this fact, slight evidence
would be sumcient.

ARTICLE II.
or IIEARSAY.

Scenes. {Ssc'nom '.

3693. Hearsay evidence. I 3700. Books of account.

3694. Sometimes original evidence. 1 3701. Matters of public interest.
3696._ Pedigree. ‘ 3702. Ancient documents.

3696. Res gestie. 3703. Ancient boundaries and landmarks

3697. Declarations of persons in posses‘n: 3704. Dying declarations.
3698. Declarations of conspirators. , 3705. Testimony of witnesses.
3699. Of deceased persons. 

§3693. Hearsay evidence is that which does not derive its,
value solely from the credit of the witness, but rests mainly on
the veracity and competency of other persons. The very nature
of the evidence shows its weakness, and it is admitted only in
specified cases from necessity.

§369~L When in a legal investigation, information, conversations, letters, and replies, and similar evidence, are facts to ex:
plain conduct and ascertain motives, they are admitted in evidence not as hearsay, but as original evidence.

§3695. Pedigree, including descent, relationship, birth, marriage, and death, may be proved either by the declarations of deceased persons related by blood or marriage, or by general repute
in the family, or by genealogies, inscriptions, “family trees,” and
similar evidence.

53696. Declarations accompanying an act, or so nearly connected therewith in time as to be free from all suspicions of device or after-thought, are admissible in evidence as part of res
gestw.
§3697. Declarations of a person in possession of property in
disparagement of his own title, are admissible in evidence, in favor of any one, and against privies. Declarations in favor of his]
own title are admissible to prove his adverse possession.

$3698. Alter the fact of conspiracy is proved, the declarations
of any one of the conspirators during the pendency of the crim-1‘
inal project, are admissible against all.

§3699. The declarations and entries of a person, since deceased, against his interest, and not made with a view to pending
litigation, are admissible in evidence in any case.

‘ §3700. The books of account of any merchant, shopkeeper,;
physician, blacksmith, or other person doing a regular business

and keeping daily entries thereof, may be admitted in evidence,
as proof of such accounts, upon the following conditions:

1. That he kept no clerk, or else the clerk is dead, or otherwise inaccessible.

2. Upon proof, (the party’s oath being sufhcient,) that the
book tendered is his book of original entries.

3. Upon proof, (by his customers,) that he usually kept correct
books.

4. Upon inspection by the court, to see if the books are free
from any suspicion of fraud.

§3701. Hearsay evidence as to declarations of deceased per'sons as to ancient rights, and made before the litigation arose,
are admissible to prove matters of public interest, in which the
whole community are supposed to take interest, and to have
knowledge.

§3702. Ancient documents purporting to be a part of the
transaction to which they relate, are admissible in evidence.

§3703. Traditionary evidence, as to ancient boundaries and
landmarks, is admissible in evidence, the weight to be determined by the jury, according to the source whence it comes.

§3704. Dying declarations made by any person in the article
of death, who is conscious of his condition, as to the cause of his
death, and the person who killed him, are admissible in evidence,
in a prosecution for the homicide.

§3705. The testimony of a witness, since deceased, or disqualified, or inaccessible for any cause, given under oath on a
former trial, upon substantially the same issue, and between
‘ substantially the same parties, may be proved by any one who
heard it, and who professes to remember the substance of the

entire testimony, as to the particular matter about which he testilies.

ARTICLE III.
OF ADMISSIONS AND CONFESSIONS.

Smox. .Snc'rrox.
3706. Definition. 3715. Weight of such evidence.
3707. Parties to record. 3716. Confessions must be voluntary.
3708. Real parties in interest. 3717. Under promise of secrecy, ti'c.
3709. Of strangers. 3718. Material facts discovered.
3710. Of agents. 3719. Confession of conspirators.
3711. Of privies. 3720. Confidential communications, &c.
3712. Admissions improperly obtained. 3721. Attorney and client.
3713. Effect of silence. 3722. When grand juror may disclose.

3714. Entire conversation.

§37 06. Admissions usually refer to civil cases; confessions to}
criminal.

§37 07. The admission of a party to the record is admissible in;
evidence when offered by the other side, except in the following
cases:

1. In case of a mere nominal party or naked trustee.

2. \Vhere there are several parties with no joint interest, the
admissions of one cannot be received unless the issue is of such a
character that the effect of the admission can be restrained to him
alone. .

3. The admissions of any trustee before he is clothed with the
trust.

4. Defendants in   in claim cases after the pendency of
litigation.

§3708. The admission of the real party in interest is admissible though he he not of record, subject to the exceptions stated
above.

§37 09. The admissions of third persons strangers to the suit
are received in evidence—

1. When the party refers to such third person for information.

2. Admissions made by a third person against his interest as
to a fact collateral tothc main issue between the litigants, but
essential to the adjudication of the cause.

3. Statements of an interpreter where from any cause he cannot be sworn.

§ 3710. The admissions of an agent or attorney in fact, during

the existence and in pursuance of his power, are evidence against
the principal.

§ 3711. The admissions of privies in blood, privies in estate, and
privies in law, are admissible as against the parties themselves,
but declarations of privies in estate, after the title has passed out
of them, cannot be received.

:5 §3712. Admissions obtained by constraint, or by fraud, or by
drunkenness induced for the purpose; or admissions or propositions made with a view to a compromise are not proper evidence.

I- §3713. Acquiescence, or silence when the circumstances require an answer or denial, or other conduct may amount to an
admission. (

§371~L When an admission is given in evidence it is the right
of the other party to have the whole admission and all the conversation connected therewith.

§3715. All admissions should be scanned with care and confessions of guilt should be received with great caution. A confession alone, uncorroborated by other evidence, will not justify
a conviction.

, §3716. To make a confession admissible, it must have been

I' made voluntarily Without being induced by another, by the slightest hope of benefit or remotest fear of injury. ‘

r §3717. The fact that a confession is made under a spiritual

lexhortation, or a promise of secrecy, or a promise of collateral

benefit shall not exclude it.
§ 3718. Any material facts discovered by a confession by a pris" oner may be proved, and the fact of its discovery, by reason of
such information, though the confession is rejected.
§ 3719. The confession of one joint offender or conspirator, made
after the enterprise is ended, is admissible only against himself.
§3720. There are certain admissions and communications excluded from public policy; among these are—
1. Communications between husband and wife.
2. Between attorney or counsellor and client.
3. Among grand jurors.
4. Secrets of State.
§37 21. Communications to any attorney or his clerk to be
transmitted to the attorney pending his employment, or in anticipation thereof should never be heard by the court. So the
attorney cannot be compelled to disclose the advice or counsel
he may give to his client, nor to produce or deliver up title deeds,
or other papers, except evidences of debt, left in his possession by
his client. This rule does not exclude the attorney as a Witness to any facts which may transpire in connection with his

employment.

§3722. Grand jurors shall disclose everything which occursj‘
in their service whenever it becomes necessary, in any court of '
record in this State.

ARTICLE IV. ,
0F PAROL EVIDENCE TO AFFECT WRITTEN.

SECTION. gSscnox.

3723. General rule. 5 3728. Usage.

3724. Contemporaueous writings. ' 3729. Other cases.

3725. Void instruments. 3730. Receipts.

3726. Where part only is in writing. 37?}. Blank endorsements.

37 27. Surrounding circumstances. I 3732. Reducing deed to mortgage.

§3723. Parol contemporaneous evidence is admissible gener»
ally to contradict or vary the terms of a valid written instrument.

§3724. All contemporaneous writings are admissible to ex-j
plain each other, and parol evidence is admissible to explain allf
ambiguities both latent and patent.

§37 25. Parol evidence is admissible to show that the writing;
was either originally void or has subsequently become so. ‘

§3726. If the writing does not purport to contain all the stipr
ulations of the contract, parol evidence is admissible to prove1
other portions thereof not inconsistent with the writing, so collateral undertakings between parties of the same part among
themselves would not properly be looked for in the writing.

§ 3727. The surrounding circumstances are always proper sub-:
jects of proof to aid in the construction of contracts. ‘

§ 37 28. In like manner evidence of known and established usage
is admissible for the same purpose as well as to annex incidents.

§37 29. Parol evidence is also admissible to rebut an equity, to«
discharge the entire contract, to prove a new and distinct subsequent agreement, to enlarge the time or change the place of
performance.

§37 30. Receipts for money are always only  evi-1
dence of payment and may be denied or explained by parol.

§3731. Blank endorsements of negotiable paper may always;
be explained between the parties themselves, or those taking with‘
‘ notice of dishonor or of the actual facts of such endorsements.

§37 32. A deed or bill of sale, absolute on its face and accompanied with possession of the property, shall not be proved (at
the instance of the parties) by parol evidence to be a mortgage
only, unless fraud in its procurement is the issue to be tried.

 

CHAPTER III.
or DISCOVERY FROM THE PARTIES.

SBOTION. lSao'rrox.
3733. Discovery at law. 3 3736. Failing to answer, or evading.
3734. Just as other witnesses. ‘ 3737. Privileged matters.

3735. Privilege of oral examination. .

§37 33. Discovery may be had from the opposite party, either
nominal'or real, in any case pending in any court in this State.
§3734. The party seeking the discovery may either subpoena
3the other party as a witness, or else file interrogatories, and sue
out a commission, as in cases provided for other witnesses. In
the latter event the right of cross examination exists as in other
cases.
§37 35. When interrogatories are filed in oiiice, and notice given thereof, it shall be the duty of the party sought to be examined, to‘see to the execution and return of the same before the
return term thereof.
§ 37 36. A party failing to appear, without sufficient excuse,
when properly subptenaed, or failing or refusing to answer, either
orally or to the interrogatories filed, or answering evasively, shall
be subject to attachment for contempt, and the court may also
dismiss his case, if he be plaintifff, or strike out his pleas, if he be
defendant, or give such other direction to the cause as is consistent
with justice and equity.
§3737. No party shall be required to testify as to any matter
which may criminate or tend to criminate himself, or which shall
tend to work a forfeiture of his estate, or which shall tend to
bring infamy, or disgrace, or public contempt upon himself, or
any member of his family.

CHAPTER IV.

u
OF RECORDS AND OTHER WRITTEN EVIDENCE.

ARTICLE 1. Of records and public documents.
ARTICLE 2. Of private writings.

ARTICLE 1.
OF RECORDS AND PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.

Blames. [Seorrom

3738 Laws and resolutions. 3746. Former acts continued in force.
3739. Exemplifications. 3747. Laws of C. S. and several States.
3740. When primary evidence. 3748. Foreign laws.

3741. Records lost or destroyed. 3749. Effects of judgments as evidence.
3742. Proof of registry. 3750. Judgment in rem.

3743. Certified copy. 3751. Not evidence for witness.

3744. If registry is destroyed. 3752. How attacked.

3745. Presumption of proper probate. 3753. Notarial acts.

§3738. All laws and resolutions of the General Assembly, as
published by authority, shall be held. deemed, and considered
public laws, and recognized, judicially, without proof. The journals of each branch of the General Assembly, as published, shall
.be, in like manner, recognized without proof.

§3739. The certificate, or attestation, of any public oi’dcer,
either of this State, or any county thereof, shall give sufiicient1
validity or authenticity to any copy or transcript. of any record, document, paper of ' file, or other matter or thing in their
respectiveoffices, or pertaining thereto, to admit the same in
evidence in any court of this State. .

§3740. Such exemplifications shall be primary evidence as to.
all records, or other things required by law to remain in such}
oiiices, but only secondary evidence as to such documents as by
law properly remain in the possession of the party.

$3741. When a record has been burned, or otherwise des-1
troyed, its contents may be proved by any secondary evidence,‘
which does not disclose the existence of other and better evidence.

§3742. The official entry of the proper officer on a paper,]
shall be suilicient evidence of its registry. ’

§3743. If the original of any paper, properly registered, is

lost or destroyed, a certified copy, from the registry, shall be
deemed good secondary evidence.

§3744. If the registry has also been destroyed, before a copy

'has been made and certified, any secondary evidence is admissible to prove the original, and its registry, which does not disclose the existence of other and better evidence.

§3745. If the original is found to have been recorded, and it
does not appear whether it was done on proper probate, the
court shall presume, until the contrary appears, that the same
was done on proper probate.

. §3746. All the acts heretofore passed, allowing papers imlproperly registered, and their copies, when lost, to be admitted
in evidence, shall be continued in force.

§3747. The public laws of the Confederate States, and of the
'several States thereof, as published by authority, shall be judicially recognized, without proof. '

§3748. Foreign laws and judgments must be authenticated
under the great seal of their respective States.

§3749. A judgment is admissible between, any parties, to show
the fact of the rendition thereof, but between parties and privies it is conclusive as to the matter directly in issue, until reversed or set aside.

§ 3750. A judgment rim, rem is conclusive upon everybody.

§3751. A judgment is inadmissible for any purpose in favor
of a party upon whose testimony, in whole, or in part, it was
rendered, except judgment from Justices’ Court.

53752. A judgment that is void, may be attacked in any
court, and by anybody. In all other cases judgments-cannot be
impeached collaterally, but must be set aside by the court rendering them. '

§37 53. All notarial acts, of Notaries Public, in relation to bills
of exchange, drafts, and promissory notes, required to be done
by the laws of this State, may be proved by the certificate of
such Notary, under his hand and seal ; Provided, such certificate
is filed in the court at its first term, and permitted there to remain until the trial.

The following acts of Congress, being frequently needed for
reference, are here inserted :

Act qf Congress of May 26, 1790. 1 Gray; Digest 272.
The acts of the Legislatures of the several States, shall be anthenticated by having the seal ot‘ their respective States afl'ixed
thereto. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts of
any State shall be proved, or admitted, in any other court within
the United States. by the attestation ot' the Clerk, and the
seal of the court annexed, it' there be a seal, together with the
certiticate ot' the Judge, Chief Justice, or Presiding Magistrate,
as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.
And the said records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as
aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every
court Within the United States, as they have by law or usage
in the courts of the State from whence the said records are, or

shall be taken.

Act (3f Congress of Alma/t 27, 1804. See. 2, Gray ,' Digest 180.

“ From and after the passage of this act, all records and exemplitications of office books, which are, or may be kept in any
public office of any State, not appertaining to a court, shall be
proved or admitted in any other court or office in any other
State, by the attestation of the keeper of the said records or
btmks, and the seal of his office thereunto annexed. if there be a
seal, together with a certilicate of the presiding justice of the
court of the county or district, as the case may be, in which such
oliice is, or may be kept: or of the Governor, the Secretary of State,
the chancellor or the keeper of the great seal of the State, that
the said attestation is in due form, and by the proper of‘ticer, and
the said certificate, if given by the presiding justice of a court,
shall be further authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary, of the
said court, who shall certify under his hand and the seal of his
oiiice, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned and
qualitied; or if the said certificate be given by the Governor, the
Secretary of State, the chancellor or keeper of the great seal, it
shall be under the great seal of the State, in which the certificate is made. And the same records and exemplifications, authenticated as aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given‘
to them in every court and office within the United States,
as they have by law or usage in the courts or oliices of the State
from whence the same are, or shall be taken.”

 

ARTICLE I'.
or PRIVATE WRITINGS.

SECTION.

3759. Producing dispenses With proof.
3760. Subscribing witness.

{ 3761. Other proof.

SECTION.
3754. Production of proof.
3755. In case of loss.
3756. Production in court.
3757. When notice unnecessary.
‘3758. Explaining alteration.

§37 54. Generally the original writing must be' produced, and
its execution proved. The excepted cases are prescribed by law.

§3755. If the paper is lost or destroyed, proof of the fact to
the court will admit secondary evidence. The party is a competent witness to this point. The question of diligence is one of
sound discretion in the court.

9' 3756. The production of such private writing is provided for
in another part of this Code.
I §3757. Notice to produce is not necessary when the action is
'brought to recover the paper or to set it aside.

§3758. If the paper appears to have been materially altered,
unless it, is the cause of action, and no plea of non est factum is
filed, the party offering it in evidence must explain the alteration unless the paper comes from the custody of the opposite party.

§ 3759. The production of the paper by the opposite party (if
he claims any benefit under it) dispenses with the necessity of
proof, and the notice to produce dispenses with proof as against
the party giving the notice.

§3760. The subscribing witness must be produced in all
cases, except the following: lst. Ancient writings which prove
themselves. 2d. If from any cause the witness cannot be produced or sworn. 3d. Office bonds required by law to be approved or tested by a particular functionary. 4th. If the paper is
only incidentally or collaterally material to the case.

§ 3761. If the witness is not produced, or being produced, cannot recollect the transaction, the court may hear any other evidence to prove its execution.
§ 37 62. Proof of handwriting may be resorted to in the absence

of direct evidence of execution. In such case, any witness is
competent to testify as to his belief. who will swear that he knows
or would recognize the handwriting. The source of his knowledge is a question for investigation, and goes eutirel y to the credit
and weight of his evidence.

 

3762. Handwriting.
3763. Comparison of hands.

§3763. Other writings, proved or acknowledged to be genuine,:
may be admitted in evidence for the purpose of comparison by
the jury. Such other new papers, when intended to be introduced, shall be submitted to the opposite party before he an.
nounces himself ready for trial.

CHAPTER V.
or ORAL TESTIMONY.

ARTICLE 1. Of witnesses—their attendance and fees.

ARTICLE 2. Of their competency.
ARTICLE 3. Of their examination.

 

ARTICLE I.
or WITNESSES—THEIR ATTENDANCE AND FEES.

l

SECTION.

3768. State‘s witnesses from other co’s.
3769. Witnesses in imprisonment.

3770. Freedom from arrest.

377]. NO fees in certain cases.

SECTION.

8764. Subpoenas.
3765. Payment of fees.
3766. Excessive claim.
3767. Failure to attend.

 

 

t

§3764. When the attendance Of any person resident in the:
county is required as a witness in any court, the clerk of such
court (or if there be no clerk, the presiding udge or justice) shall,
on application, issue a writ of subpoena, directed to such person, requiring him to appear and testify in the case stated, and at the
time stated. Such subpoena shall be served on the witness personally, by any person capable of proving the same, at least five
days before the term of the court. The witness so summoned shall
attend the court from term to term until the case is tried. And
if there be an appeal or new trial, notice of the fact, without a new
aubpama, shall be sutllcient to require the attendance of the witness. The witness fee shall be seventy-five cents per diem.

§ 37 65. The payment of the fees of a witness shall not be de- l.
manded as a condition precedent to an attendance. But at the“
close of each term, or any term, the witness may make affidavit
before any Justice Of the Peace, or clerk of the court, of the number of days he has attended on such 816pr for which his fees
are due, which atiidavit, when countersigned' by the clerk (or if N
no clerk, the Judge) and attached to the subpmw, shall have the h

force and effect of an execution against the property of the party

at whose instance he was subpwnawl (unless in behalf the State.)

§3766. A witness who shall claim more than is due to him,
forfeits all his fees, and shall pay to the injured party, in addition
thereto, four times the amount so unjustly claimed.

§3767. The court may proceed by attachment to compel the
attendance of a witness who fails to obey the precept, and also to
punish him by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars. In
addition thereto such a witness shall be liable in damages to the
person causing him to be subpmnaed, for his failure to attend.

§3768. Witnesses for the State in a criminal prosecution in the

Superior Courts, attending in a different county from that of their
residence, shall receive each, two dollars per day during their attendance, and two dollars for each thirty miles traveled in going
and returning, which shall be paid on the subpasna, verilied as in
ordinary cases, by the County Treasurer, out of the county funds.
In case of conviction the amount paid by the county shall be
taxed in the bill of costs.

, § 3769. The writ of' lzabeas corpus ad testzzjilcandum may be issued by the Superior Court to cause the production in court of
any witness under legal imprismmcnt.

§3770. Witnesses are protected from arrest on any civil process while going to or returning from and attending on any court,
and the officer who shall hold him imprisoned, after seeing his
subpoena or being satisfied of the fact, shall be liable for a false
imprisonment.

§3771. A witness shall not receive any fees whatever for at'tendance on a subpoena if the cause at any time is continued for
his absence, or if he is absent at the trial; Provided. such absence
in neither case arose from Providential causes. Nor shall any’
witness receive fees from both parties in the same case, but shall
be paid equally by each, unless one shall be cast in all the cost.
A prosecutor shall in no case receive fees as a witness.

ARTICLE II.

OF THE COMPETENCY 0F WITNESSES.

Sscrtox.

3779. Interest not disqualifying.

3780. Exceptional cases.

3781. Release.

3782. Husband and wife.

3783. Parties own oath.

3784 Time of objecting .5; mode of proof
3785. Restoration of competency.

Sammy. .

3772. Ground of incompetency.
3773. Children.

3774. Mutes, Ste.

3775. Drunkenness.

3776. Idiots and insane.

3777. Persons infamous.

3778. Persons interested.

 

s
|
l
.’

 

9’37 7 2. The competency of a witness must be decided by the.
court. Witnesses are incompetent— j

1. VVho'are deficient in understanding.

2. Who are infamous by reason of crime.

3. Who are interested in the event of the suit.

4. Who are related as husband and wife.

5. By reason of their ignoble status—such as slaves and free
persons of color. Religious belief goes only to the credit.

§377 3. At fourteen years of age, the law presumes a child to
have sufficient understanding to testify. Prior to that age, the
court must decide upon examination.

.337 74. N 0 physical defects in any of the senses incapacitates a:
witness. An interpreter may explain his evidence.

9'37 7 5. Drunkenness which dethrones reason and memory, incapacitates during its continuance. ‘

§37 7 6. The court must by examination decide upon the capacity of one alleged to be incompetent from idiocy, lunacy, or insanity, or drunkenness.

§37 7 7 . Persons convicted of treason or any felony are incompetent to testify in any cause after sentence passed and pending
execution thereof, except on criminal prosecutions for escape or
rescue. If he be a party to a case, necessary affidavits to obtain
his civil rights, may he made by him.

$37 7 8. Every person is incompetent, unless called by the opposite party, whether a party to the record or not, who has a direct legal interest in the event of the suit, or for or against Whom
the record might be legal evidence in some subsequent suit.

§ 37 79. .An interest in the question. an honorary obligation, an
imaginary interest, or a remote. contingent or uncertain interest,
will not disqualify, but goes to the credit.

I §3780. The following also are exceptions to the general rule in

reference to interest :
1 . Persons declared competent by statute, notwithstanding their

interest.
2. Persons entitled to rewards on conviction in criminal prosecutions.

3. Agents or bailees called to prove facts done for their principals in the course of their employment.

4. Witnesses whose interest is balanced on either side.

5. Interest acquired by a witness subsequent to his being subpoenaed either willfully to render himself incompetent, or fraudulently by the other party. '

6. Nominal parties to the record, liable only for cost. .

§3781. An interested witness may be rendered competent at
any time before examination, by a release, either made to or by
him. Neither he, nor the party, by refusing to accept the release can continue his incompetency.

9' 3782. Husband and wife, lawfully married, cannot be witnesses

for or against each other, nor can the wife he a witness fora third
person, where her testimony may indirectly affect her husband.
The objection exists after the dissolution of the marriage, by death
or otherwise, as to all knowledge acquired by either party by reason of the marriage relation. An exception to this general rule
exists in all criminal or quasi- criminal proceedings against either
party for offenses upon the person of the other.
_ $37 83. An exception to the rule excluding interested parties
exists in all cases where, from necessity or convenience, the oath
of the party is received by the court in proof of facts preliminary to other evidence, or in the conduct of a cause. The evidence
of the party is also received in od'ium apolitatoris when after
proof of the tort, the extent of the injury may be proved by him,
and against a bailor guilty of negligence, to show the extent of
the loss, there being no other evidence within the party’s power;
and in certain Inferior Courts where by law this evidence is
admitted.

§3784. The objection to competency, if known, must be taken
before the witness is examined at all. It may be proved by the
Witness himself, or by other testimony ; if proved by other testimony, the witness is incompetent to explain it away.

§3785. A deposit of money to cover all costs, or any other
act which, in the judgment of the court, relieves the witness

 

from his interest, or other ground of incompetency, will restore
his competency.

ARTICLE III.
or THE EXAMINATION 0F WITNESSES.

SECTION. {Steer-ION.

3786. Oath or affirmation I 3794. Privilege of witness.

3787. Separate examination.  3795. Impeaching a witness.

3788. Cross examination. 3796. Laying the foundation.

3789. Leading questions. ' | 3797. General character.

3790 Memorandum in aid of witness. 3798. Sustaining witness.

3791. Opinions of witness. 3799. If impeached by cont’y statements.
3792. 01‘ experts. 3800. State of feeling and relationship.

3793. Impeaching one's own witness. J

§37 86. The sanction of an oath, or affirmation equivalent
thereto, is necessary to the reception .of any oral evidence. The
court may frame such affirmation according to the religious faith
of the witness.

§ 37 87. In all cases either party has the right to have the witnesses of the other party examined, out of the hearing of each
other. The court will take proper care to effect this ’object, as
far as practicable and convenient, but any mere irregularity shall
not exclude the witness.

§3788. The right of cross examination, thorough and sitting,
belongs to every party as to the witnesses called against him.
If several parties to the same case have distinct interests, each
may exercise this right.

9‘37 89. Leading questions are generally allowed in cross ex-‘
amiuations, and only in these ; but the court may exercise a discretion in granting the right to the party calling the witness,
and in refusing it to the opposite party when, from the conduct
of the witness, or other reason, justice requires it.

§3790. A witness may refresh and assist his memory by the:
use of any written instrument, or memorandum, provided he:
finally speaks from his recollection, thus refreshed, or is willing]
to swear positively from the paper.

537 91. Where the question under examination, and to be de-f
cided by the jury is one of opinion, any witness may swear to
his opinion or belief, giving his reasons therefore; but, if the issue is as to the existence of a fact, the opinions of witnesses,
generally, are inadmissible.

$3792. The opinions of experts, on any question of science,
skill, trade, or like questions, are always admissible; and such
opinions may be given on the facts as proved by other witnesses.

§3793. A party may not impeach a witness, voluntarily called
by him, except where he can show to the court that he has been
entrapped by the witness, by a previous contradictory statement.

3‘3794. A witness is relieved from testifying, as to the same
matters hereinbefore specilied in relation to a party making discovery.

§37 95. A witness may be impeached— .

1. By disproving the facts testified to by him.

2. By proof of contradictory statements previously made by
him as to matters relevant to his testimony and to the case.

3. By evidence as to his general bad character.

3' 3796. Before contradictory statements of the witness can be
proved against him, (unless they are written statements, made
under oath, in connection with some judicial proceedings.) the
mind of the witness himself, should be called with as much certainty as possible to the time, place, person, and circumstances
attending the former statement; and if in writing, the same
should be shown to the witness,'or read in his hearing, if in existence; and to lay this foundation, the Witness may be recalled
at any time.

9‘37 97. To prove general bad character, the impeaching witness should be first asked as to his knowledge of the general
character of the witness; and next as to what that character is,
and lastly, he may be asked, if, from that character, he would
believe him on his oath.

§3798. The witness may be sustained by similar proof of
character. But the particular transactions, or the opinions of
single individuals, cannot be inquiredof on either side, except
upon cross examination, in seeking for the extent and foundation
of the witness’ knowledge.

§37 99. A witness, impeached by proof of contradictory statements, may be sustained by proof of general good character—41w
effect of the evidence to be determined by the jury.

§ 3800. The state of the witness’ feelings to the parties, and
,his relationship, may always be proved for the consideration 'of
the jury.

CHAPTER VI.
or INTERROGATORIES AND DEPOSITIONS

SECTION. SECTION.
3801. Who may be examined on int’r’gr’s 3809 Compelling witness to answer.
3802. If the facts cease to exrst. ‘ I 3810. Where to be examined.
3803. Mode of obtaining commission. 3811. Writing out their own answer.
3804. Without service. 3812. Duty of commissioners.
3805. If there are several parties. 3813. How received and disposed of.
3806. Appointment of commissioners. ’ 3814. Failing to return a contempt.

3807. Who may act as commissioners. ! 3815. Exceptions—when taken.
3808. How executed.

 

§3801. A witness may be examined on interrogatories, by,
commission, at the instance of either party, in any civil cause;

pending in any court in this State, when either of the followingr
state of facts exist:

1. Where the witness resides out of the county.

2. Where, from the condition of his health, from age, or otherwise, he cannot attend the court, or from the nature of his business or occupation, it is not possible to secure his personal attendance without manifest inconvenience to the public or to
third persons, (such as Post Masters, Public Carriers, Physicians, &c.) A

3. Where the witness is about to remove from the county, or
is about to leave home on business, for a sojourn, or tour, which
will extend beyond the term of the court.

4. All female witnesses.

5. Where he is the only witness to a material point in the
ease.

§3802. If the state of facts, on which the commission issued
ceases to exist before the trial of the cause, and the witness is
then accessible by subpoena, the testimony taken on interrogatories cannot be used. ‘

§3803. The party seeking to examine a witness by commission, must prepare written interrogatories sudiciently explicit to
inform the other party of the nature of the testimony sought and

expected, and yet not liable to the objection of being leading
questions, which must also state the residence of the witness, if

known, and must serve a copy of such interrogatories on the opposits party, or his attorney, with a notice of the time of 
The orignal interrogatories shall be then filed in office, and there
remain for ten days, during which time cross interrogatories may

be filed. At the expiration of ten days, a commission shall issue
by the clerk (or presiding judge if no clerk) for the examination
of such witness upon the interrogatories.

'- §3804. If in any case the opposite party is beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or cannot be found, and is not represented
by attorney, a notice at the court-Rouse door for ten days, of the
iiling of the interrogatories, shall authorize a commission to issue.

§3805. If there are more than one party opposing, and they
have not a joint interest, but several independent interests are
represented by different attorneys, copies must be served upon
each, and the right to file cross interrogatories belongs to each.
In every case the court should see that the party really to be effected by the evidence has an opportunity of cross examination.§8806. Commissions shall issue generally in blank, allowing

- the party to select his commissioners; but in any case, the oppo~
site party shall have the privilege of naming two competent commissioners, whose names shall be inserted in the commission, and
one of whom shall act in the execution thereof, unless a good and
snfiicient reason be shown for his failure.

-§:}SUT. Nu lujl'snn is emnlretent to art as mazmnissiuner. Whu
would he inmmqietent us :1 litll'ul‘ “I: :m-mmt nt' relationship. or :is
:1 \i’itness ml :iet-c.11111tnt" interest. Imr will the :tiitll'l'lt"'\' of the
party or his elerli. or an agent paiii Tu (lisehnrge this duty. he :1
mmilietent (7mm:tissiener. .\ mimmissiimer. like :‘1'i1ulge. slmuld
slaml pert'eetlr impartial hetxreen the parties. Tth dollars per
(lay shall he. :illnweil e:nmmissiuners lill' their servii-es. in he. paid
hf the party, and taxed with uther Gusts.

5135(th Nu party. or his munsel, or agent. nr Hillel' person on
his behalt'slmuhl he present at the. L‘Xl_‘t'llllllll ut' the mmnnissimi.
and ever'x'thing attending the exerutiun shunhl shuw a perfect
inipzirtinlity :"iml t'l‘t'w'nluiii trim} lniiis.

§I1Htlih it' a witness refuses to appear itt'liil't‘ the mmmissiuners,
'or to {ll't'rsu't‘l‘ the interr::gaturies. ltlhm the m-rtitieate ut' one of the
mmm]issimiers. or the :lllitlzl‘i'll’ ('1' the party or his. :1tt'i'r1'11ey in the
titer, lil'esenteil ti) :1. .l1.11l;_"e 01" The bilqiel‘inl' ul‘ Justit'e Hi. the. Inl'erim- Court. it shall he his ilnty tn issue :11: l'tl"_i‘..‘l‘ tn the Sheril'l'.
his deputy, nr :11ij eunstnfile, tn arrest the. Witness :mul luring him
lu-tin'e sueh Judge. 01‘ .lnstiee. :mt'l utter hearng his exense nml
examinng the llltt-‘t‘l‘ngzlittl‘ii'trl, tn see that the. same are. lt‘;_".=ti. he
shall Ul'llCl‘ the. said witmjss to he lntlgetl in jail until he answers

the same. This provision shall extend to commissions sent from
the courts of other States or the Confederate States.

§ 3810. No female witness shall be required to leave her home
to appear before commissioners; nor shall any witness be required to go out of the county, or more than ten miles from his
residence, and any witness leaving his home to be examined,
shall have the fees of a witness subpoenaed and attending. the
court.

§ 3811. Witnesses may write out their own answers in the
presence of the commissioners, and by their consent, but in no
other way shall they prepare the same, and if the witnesses answer from written memoranda, such memoranda shall be sent
with the commission, and the fact certified by the commissioners.

§3812. The answers should be under oath, and certified to be.
so taken. They should be written out plainly, and be full and1
explicit to all the direct and cross interrogatories, they should be
signed by the witness, and attested oiiicially by the commission—
ers named in the commission, and the place of execution should
also appear. The interrogatories, answers and commissions should
.be then sealed up in envelope, with the names of the commissioners written across the seal, and directed to the oHicer of the
court whence the commission issued. The package can be sent
by mail or intrusted to the party or some private hand. oh the
former case, the postmaster receiving it from the commissioner
must certify to the fact, and the postmaster delivering it to the
court must certify to its reception by due course of mail. In the
latter case, the person recieving and delivering it in court, must
make affidavit of the fact, and of its freedom from alteration.

§3813. The package thus forwarded must be received in open]
court, and Opened only by its leave or the consent of parties, and;
when thus received, shall become an office paper, to be used by
either party under the direction of the court.

§ 3814. A commission once executed must be returned, and a1
party failing to return or willfully abstracting such, shall beat-i
tached for contempt, and otherwise dealt with until the same is
produced.

§ 3815. All exceptions to the execution and return of commie-1
sions must be made in writing, and notice thereof given to the?
opposite party before the case is submitted to the jury; Provided,
the same have been in the clerk’s oiiice for twenty-four hours

prior to the trial. Depositions read on the tirst trial shall not be
subject to formal exceptions on the appeal.

 

 

 

CHAPTER VII.
PERPETUATING TESTIMONY.

SECTION. SECTION.
3816. A pplication and order. i 3819. Effect of testimony.
3817 Deposition and filing. ‘ 3820. Fees.

3818. Application recorded. 

§3816. If any person desires to perpetuate the testimony of a
witness, in anticipation of litigation, not yet pending, and which
it is not in his power to commence, he may make written application to the Judge of the Superior Court of the county where
the witness resides, or if a non-resident, where he may be temporarily, stating the facts, the proof expected, and the parties probably interested on the other side, accompanying such application
with the written interrogatories to be propounded to the witness,
whereupon the Judge shall pass an order requiring some disinterested attorney of the court to act as commissioner and take
such testimony, providing in such order for the most effectual
notice to the opposite parties, and for ‘any cross interrogatories
which may be filed.

§3817. Such commissioner, after executing the commision in
the same manner as in ordinary cases, shall file the package with
the Clerk of the Superior Court, with his endorsement of the fact
thereon, which package shall be safely kept, until produced by
him for publication under the order of the court.

§3818. The application for the order, and the order, shall he
entered on the minutes before delivery to the commissioner for
execution.

§3819. Testimony thus taken shall be used (it? bane ease if, at
the time, the litigation arises, no more satisfactory examination of
the witness may be had.

§3820. The court granting the order shall prescribe the fees to
be paid to the commissioner and Clerk.

TITLE XI.
OF JURIES

CHAPTER 1. Of grand juries.

CHAPTER 2. Of special juries.

CHAPTER 3. Of petit juries.

CHAPTER 4. Of juries in the Inferior Court.
CHAPTER 5. Special provisions.

CHAPTER I.
OF GRAND JURIES.

ARTICLE 1. Of the qualification Of grand jurors.
ARTICLE 2. How selected, drawn and summoned.

ARTICLE 3. Oath of the grand jury.
ARTICLE 4. Of the power and duty of a grand jury.

 

ARTICLE I.
OF QUALIFICATION 0F GRAND JUROBS.

SECTION 3821. Qualification of grand jurors.

§3821. All free white male citizens of this State, above the
age of twenty-one years, and under the age of sixty years, being,
neither idiots, lunatics, nor insane, who have resided in the county for six months preceding the time of serving, and who are
deemed lit and proper persons, as hereinafter provided, are hereby declared qualified and liable to serve as grand jurors, unless
exempted by law.

—-—.

ARTICLE II.
How SELECTED, DRAWN AND SUMMONED.

SECTION. SECTION.
3822. How selected and drawn. 3825. Precept to the Sheriff.
3823. Number to be drawn. 3826. How summoned.
3824. Number to be impannelled. I

§3822. The Justices of the Inferior Court of each county, or
a majority of them, together with the Sheriff and Clerk of the

Superior Court, shall convene at the court-house, in their respective counties, on the first Monday in June next, after the adoption of this Code, and biennially on the first Monday in June
thereafter, and shall select from the books of the Receiver of
Tax Returns for their respective counties, the names of such able,
discreet, and qualified citizens of the county as, in their judgment, are lit and proper persons to serve as grand jurors, and
shall make a list of the names of the persons so selected, and

s transmit it under their hands to the next Superior Court of their '
respective counties, and the Clerk of said Superior Court shall
immediately, after receiving such list, fairly enter the same in
a book for that purpose, provided at his own expense; and
the Judge then presiding shall cause the Clerk of said Superior
Court to make out tickets, with the names of the persons so selected written thereon; which tickets shall be 'put in a box, to
be provided by the Clerk at the public expense—the box to have
two apartments, marked number one and two ,' the Judge shall
then look and seal up the box, and place it in the care of the
Clerk, and the key in the care of the Sheriff, and no grand jury
shall be drawn and impanuelled, but in the presence of the
Judge in open court, except as hereinafter provided; nor shall
any Clerk or other person, having the custody of the jury box,
presume, under any pretense whatever, to open said box, or
transpose, or alter the names, unless it be by the direction of the
Judge in open court, attending for the purpose of drawing a
jury, except as hereinafter excepted.

,_ §3823. The Judge in open court shall break the seal and unlock the box, and cause to be drawn from the apartment of the
same marked number one, not less than twenty-three nor more
than thirty—six names, unless otherwise directed by law, to serve
as grand jurors, which names, so drawn out shall, after an account
is taken of them at each time of drawing, be carefully deposited
in the other apartment of said box marked number two ,' and
when all the names shall have been drawn out of apartment
number one, the drawing shall commence from apartment number
two, and the tickets be returned to number one, and so on alternately; and no name so deposited shall, on any pretense, be
thrown out or destroyed, except when it is satisfactorily shown
to the Judge that the juror is either dead, removed out of the
county, or is otherwise disqualified by law.

§3824. No grand jury shall consist of less than eighteen or;
more than twenty-three.

§3825. Within thirty days after the grand jury is drawn, as hereinbefore provided, the Clerk of the said Superior Court shall issue
and deliver to the Sheriff, or his lawful deputy, a precept for
summoning the same, to which he shall annex a pannel containing the names of the persons drawn as aforesaid, exactly transscribed from the minute book, and in the mandatory part of the
precept, the following words shall be written, viz: “The several
persons named in the pannel hereunto annexed.”

§3826. Upon receipt of the precept mentioned in the preceding section, the Sheriff, or his deputy, shall cause the persons
whose names are written in the pannel annexed to the precept,
to he served personally, or by leaving the same at his residence,
with a summons, at least ten days before the sitting of the court
for which they are drawn, which summons shall be in substance
as follows, to wit: “By virtue of the precept to me directed,
you are hereby commanded to appear before the presiding Judge,
at the next Superior Court to be held at the court-house, in
and for the county of on the day of at ten
o’clock in the forenoon of that day, to be sworn as a grand juror ;” which summons shall be signed by the Sheriff, or his law:
ful deputy, who shall make due return of such precept, setting
forth the names of all persons served as aforesaid, and also the
names of those not served, together with the reasons why they
were not served.

ARTICLE III.
OATH or THE GRAND JURY.

SECTION 3827. Oath of the grand jury.

§382T. The following oath shall be administered to the foreman of all grand juries, viz: “You, as foreman of the grand
jury for the county of shall diligently inquire and true
presentments make of all such matters and things as shall be given
you in charge, or shall come to your knowledge, touching the
present service, the State’s counsel, your fellows and your own,
you shall keep secret, imless called upon to give evidence thereof
in some court of law in this State ; you shall present no one from
envy, hatred or malice, nor shall you leave any one nupresented
from fear, favor, affection, reward, or the hope thereof, but you

shall present all things truly, and as they come to your knowledge; so help you God.” And the same oath thus taken by the
foreman, shall be taken by each and every member of any and
all grand juries in this State.

 

ARTLCLE Iv.
OF THE POWER AND DUTY OF A GRAND JURY.

Sacrxox. SECTION.
3828. When bound to present. 3831. Shell examine county offices.
3829. Foreman may swear witnesses. 3832. Shall examine the list of voters.
3830. Power as to errors in tax books.

§ 3828. Whilst grand jurors are bound only to notice or make
presentments of such offenses as may or shall come to their knowledge or observation after they shall have been sworn, yet, they
have the right and power, and it is their duty, as jurors, to make
presentments of any violations of the laws which they may know
to have been committed at any previous time, which are not
barred by the statute of limitations.
§ 3829. The foreman of each grand jury in this State may administer the oath prescribed bylaw to all witnesses required to testif y before such grand ury, and may also examine such witnesses.
§3830. Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear to the grand
jury of any county in this State, that the Receiver of Tax Returns
has committed an error in making an entry in his digest, of either
quantity or quality of property returned in such digest, or in the
amount of taxes assessed, such grand jury may recommend the Inferior Court of their county and the Comptroller General of the
State, to cause such error (particularly specifying the same) to be
corrected.
$3831. In addition to the duties of the grand jury, asindicated
in the oath administered to them, and as required by law, it shall
. be their special duty, from term to term of the Superior Court, to
inspect and examine the offices, papers, books and records, of the
Clerks of the Superior and Inferior Courts, and also the books,
papers, records, accounts, and vouchers of the County Treasurer,
and cause any such Clerk or County Treasurer, who shall have
failed or neglected to do his duty as required by law, to be presented for non-performance of ollicial duty.
_ §3832. It shall also be the duty of the grand juries of the several counties in this State to carefully examine the list of voters

 

required by law to be laid before them, and if there be found on
such list any voter not entitled to vote according to the provisions of this Code, to present such voter for such violation of

law.*

——

CHAPTER II.
‘ or SPECIAL JURIES.
Sscnou. ESac-l'los'.
3833. How selected and sworn. 3836. No other oath in divorce cases.

3834. Oath of special jury.

§3833. All special juries shall be taken from the grand jury,
and shall be stricken in the presence of the court in the following
manner: the Clerk shall furnish a list of the grand jurors present
and then impannelled, from which the parties or their attorneys
may strike out one alternately, until there shall be but twelve left,
who shall be forthwith empannelled and sworn as special jurors;
in cases of appeal by consent the plaintifff shall strike first, and
in all other cases the appellant shall strike first, and should either
party fail or refuse to strike such special jury, after being notified
or required so to do, the presiding Judge shall, in behalf of the
party so failing or refusing to stike, proceed in the same way
and manner as if the party failing or refusing were striking said
special jury in person, or consenting to the same.

§3834. The following shall be the oath of all special juries, to'
wit: “You shall well and truly try each cause submitted to you}
during the present term, and a true verdict give, according to the
law as given you in charge, and the opinion you entertain of the
evidence produced to you, to the best of your skill and knowledge,
without favor or affection to either party, provided you are not
discharged from the consideration of the case submitted. So help

you God”
§ 3835. No additional oath shall hereafter be necessary in cases 1

of divorce. d

CHAPTER III.
or PETIT JURIES.

ARTICLE 1. Qualification of petit jurors. .
ARTICLE 2. How selected, drawn, summoned, and sworn.

 

ARTICLE I.

QUALIFICATIONS 0F PETIT JURORS.

SECTION 3836. Qualification of petit jurors.

r §3836. All free white male citizens of this State, above the
age of twenty-one years and under the age of sixty years, who are
neither idiots nor lunatics, and who have resided in the county
for six months immediately preceding the time at which they are

called upon to serve, are hereby declared competent, qualified
and liable to serve as petit jurors.

ARTICLE II.
HOW SELECTED, DRAWN, SUMMONED AND swonx.

Sncnox. Ssorrox.
3837. Selected, drawn, and summoned. 3838. Oath of petit jurors.

§3837. The citizens of the county whose names remain on the
books of the Receiver of Tax Returns, after the grand jurors have
been selected, and who possess the qualifications prescribed in the
preceding section, shall constitute the body of petit jurors for
service in the Superior Courts; and a list of their names shall be
"made out and returned, written upon tickets, and placed in a box
in the same manner as required in cases of grand jurors; and
from the box there shall be drawn a pannel of persons, consisting
of not less than thirty-six nor more than forty-eight names, unless otherwise directed by law, who shall be summoned in the
same manner and under the same regulations which are prescribed for drawing and summoning grand jurors.

 

 

§3838. The following oath shall be administered to petit jurors
in all civil cases, viz: “You shall well and truly try the causes
depending between the parties at variance. and a true verdict
give according to evidence. So help you God.”

CHAPTER IV.
or JURIES IN THE INFERIOR COURT.

ARTICLE 1. Qualifications of jurors in the Inferior Court.
ARTICLE 2. How selected, drawn, summoned and sworn.

 

ARTICLE I.

OF THE QUALIFICATIONS OF J URORS IN THE INFERIOR COURT.

SECTION 3839. Qualifications.

§3839. The qualifications of jurors to try causes in the Inferior
Courts of this State shall be the same as those prescribed by law

for petit jurors in the Superior Courts.

 

ARTICLE II.

HOW SELECTED, DRAWN, SUMMONED AND SWORN.

Symon. Sscrxox.
3840. Selected, drawn and summoned. 3841. How sworn.

§3840. At each and every meeting held for the purpose of arr.
ranging or revising the jury boxes of the Superior Court, the J us-‘
tices of the Inferior Court present at such meeting, shall cause an
exact copy of the petit jury list of the Superior Court to be made
out and delivered to the Clerk of the Inferior Court, who shall
immediately enter the same in a book to be provided by him for
that purpose ; and the persons whose names are on such list shall
constitute the body of jurors for the trial of causes in the Inferior
Court, and the said Justices with said Clerk shall write said
names on tickets, and arrange them in a box in the same manner
as is required in the Superior Court, and the Inferior Court in
term time (except as hereinafter excepted) shall draw from said]
box a pannel of jurors consisting of not less than twenty-tour nor
more than thirty-six names, to serve at the term of said Inferior

 

Court next succeeding the term at which such drawing takes
place, and the jurors thus drawn shall be summoned by the Sheriff-or his Deputy, by virtue of a precept issued by such Clerk of
the Inferior Court, under the same regulations as those prescribed
in this Code for drawing and summoning petit jurors in the Superior Court. ‘

§3841. The same oath which is required to be administered to
petit urors in the Superior Court, shall be administered to jurors
empannelled to try causes in the Inferior Court.

 

CHAPTER V.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS.

Scones. SECTION.
3842. When Judge fails to draw a jury. 3847. Oath of jury in claim cases.
3843. Juries may be made by talesman. 3848. Failure of court, jury stands over.
3844. Jury box destroyed—how replaced 3849. When jury lists, kc, may be made.
3845. Persons exempt from jury duty. 3850. May be lined for contempt.
3846. May recommend extra tax.‘ 3851. May have refreshments.

s §3842. If from any cause, the Judge of the Superior Courts
Dshall fail to draw grand and petit juries, as hereinbefore required,
the Justices of the Inferior Court, or a majority of them, together
with the Sheriff and Clerk of the Superior Court of the county
in which such failure occurs, shall assemble at the court-house in
such county at least sixty days previous to the sitting of the court
at which the jurors are required to serve, and proceed to open
their jury boxes, and draw therefrom the required number of
names to serve as grand and petit jurors at their next depending
Superior Court, and the juries being so drawn, the boxes shall be
again scaled up, and with the key, delivered to the custody of the
proper officer; and if the Inferior Court from any cause shall
fail to draw a jury, at the time hereinbefore prescribed, toserve
in their said Inferior Court, the Justices of said Inferior Court,
or a majority of them, together with their Clerk and the'Sheriif,
shall meet at the court-house at least forty days before the sitting
of the court at which thejurors are to serve, and draw a jury for
said Inferior Court, under the same regulations that they ought
to have been done in term time. ~ .

§3843. When from any cause there shall not be present a sufliicient number of persons drawn and summoned as hereinbefore
required to make up a grand jury, or the petit juries, or a jury

to try causes in the Inferior Court, the court may order the Sher-‘
ifi', his Deputy, the Coroner, or any other disinterested person, to
summon by—standers or others qualified as hereinbefore prescribed,
until the pannel shall be complete.

§3844. When the jury list and jury boxes of any county in
this State shall be destroyed, the ustices of the Inferior Court,
or a majority of them, together with the Clerkgof the Superior
Court and the Sheriff, shall, as soon thereafter as practicable,
meet at the Court-house, and make out jury lists and arrange the
names in boxes as hereinbefore directed.

§3845. All the Justices of the Inferior Court and clergymen
of this State, may at their own option be exempt from the ser.
vice and duties of a grand juror.

§3846. Upon the recommendation of the grand jury, the J ustices of the Inferior Court of the several counties in this State,
may assess and raise a tax for the reasonable compensation of
grand and petit jurors, or either of them, and at their pleasure
and discretion discontinue such tax, and again resume and re-assees and raise it upon the recommendation aforesaid; the jury
and confession fees in such case to be paid into the County Treasury as a part of the fund for that purpose; and when such tax is
raised, the Clerk of the Superior Court shall issue to the jurors
whose compensation is provided for as aforesaid, a certificate
which shall be deemed and held a warrant on the County Treasury for the amount of the money due such juror, according to the
per diem pay fixed by the Inferior Court, and the County Treasurer shall pay the same out of the fund so raised by taxation as
aforesaid, and the Tax Collector shall collect the tax and pay it
over as county tax.

§3847. The following oath shall be administered to all juries
empaunelled to try claim cases, Whether at common law or on the
appeal, to wit: “In addition to the oath you have already taken,
you do further swear that you will give such damages not less
than ten per cent. as may seem reasonable and just to the plaintifff against the claimant in case it shall be sufficiently shown to
you that such claim was made for delay only. So help you
God.”

§ 3848. Whenever there shall be a failure of the Superior Court
or Inferior Court, in consequence of the non-attendance of the
Judge or Justices, or other cause, the jurors summoned for such

court shall stand over to the next succeeding term in the same
manner as suitors and witnesses do.

a 93849. Whenever the proper officers in any county in this
State shall fail to meet and make out ury lists and arrange jury
boxes for their respective counties at the time directed in this
Code, the same may be done at any time before the next term of
the Superior Court to be held in the county after the time at
which the lists should have been made out.

% §3850. If any jury shall commit a contempt of court, or shall
break up before giving in their verdict in any civil case without
leave of the court, the court may declare a mistrial in the case,
and shall line each of the offending jurors in a sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars.

§3851. When any jury is confined in the investigation of a
case for a length of time which exposes them to hunger and cold,
the Court may, on application from such jury, direct them to be
furnished with such refreshments as the presiding Judge may
deem meet and proper, and the said Judge shall have full power
to draw his warrant on the County Treasurer of the county where
the investigation is had, for the payment of the same, which the
said Treasurer shall pay out of any funds on hand. The Judge
may also allow the jury fire if the circumstances require it.

TITLE XII.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST OFFICERS OF COURT.

CHAPTER I.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST OFFICERS OF COURT.
SECTION. Snerxox.
3862. Ohieers subject to suit, are. 3859. When ruled without notice.
3853. Liability of Sheriffs. 3860. Judgment on rule.
3854. Demand of money collected. 3861. Def-uniting oilicers—hew punished.
3855. Service of demand—how provedl 3862. Delinquent attorneys.
3856. Retired officers may be ruled. I 3863. Rule against Deputy Sheriff.
3857. Rules 721' Si against officers. 3864. Service of rule against Sheriff.
3858. Answer and proceedings. 3865. Rule rs. J. P. and Constables.

§ 3852. All Sheriffs, under Sheriffs, Coroners, J ai lors and Constables and other oiiicers ofc'ourt shall be liable to all actions, suits and
disabilities whatever, which they, or either of them, may or shall

incur for or on account of the escape of prisoners, or for or in respect of any other matter or thing whatever, relating to, or concerning their respective offices.

§3853. The Sheriffs of this State shall be liable to an action on
the case, or an attachment for contempt of court, at the option of
the party, wherever it appears that such Sheriffs have injured such
party, either by a false return, or by neglecting to arrest a defendant, or to levy on the property of the defendant, or to pay over
to the plaintifff, or his attorney, any monies collected by such

Sheriff's by virtue of any fa. or other legal process, or to make
a proper return of any writ, execution, or other process put into

the hands of such Sheriff.

§ 3854. If any Sheriff, Coroner, Justice of the Peace, Constable,
Clerk of the Superior, or Inferior Court, or attorney at law, shall
fail, upon application, to pay to the proper person, or his attorney, any money they may have in their hands, which they may
have collected by virtue of their oilice, the party entitled thereto,
or his attorney, may serve said officer with a written demand for
the same, and if not then paid, for such neglect or refusal, the
said officer shall be compelled to pay at the rate of' twenty per
cent. per annum, upon the sum he has in his hands, from the date
of such demand, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.

§3855. A copy of said demand produced in court, verified by
affidavit, stating when and where the original was served upon
the officer, shall be pm'mafacz’e evidence of the date and service
thereof.

§3856. Sheriff's, Deputy Sheriffs, Coroners, Clerks of the Snperior and Inferior Courts, Justices of the Peace and Constables,
shall at any and all times be subject to the rule and order of the
courts after they have retired from their respective offices, in such
cases and in like manner as they would have been had they remained in office.

$3857. The Judges of the Superior Court, Justices of the Inferior Court and Justices of the Peace, respectively, upon application, may grant rules m’ 82' against all officers subject thereto
in vacation, or in term time, which rule m: 873 shall contain a full
statement of the case in which the ofEcer is called upon to show
cause, and also the time and place of' hearing, and, if granted in
vacation, the officer called on shall be served with a copy thereof
before the sitting of the court to which it'is made returnable, and

if granted in term time, such service shall be perfected before the
case is called for hearing.

§3858. The officer called on by rule 115 32', as provided in the
preceding section, shall fully respond in writing to said rule,
which answer shall be under oath, taken at the time the answer
is filed ; and if the answer is not denied, the rule shall be dis—
charged, or made absolute, according as the court may deem the
answer sufficient or not. The movant of the rule, however,
may traverse the truth of such answer, in which case an issue
shall be made up and tried by a jury at the same term, unless
good cause of continuance be shown, which may be done once
only by either party. Upon the trial of such issue, the court
shall discharge the rule or make the same absolute, according as
the verdict of the jury may be for or against the officer.

§3859. If a Sheriff or other officer shall designedly absent
himself from his court, the presiding Judge or Justices, in all
such instances, when required by plaintifffs in execution, or their
attorneys, shall grant a rule absolute against such Sheriff without
the notice aforesaid, unless it is proven at such term of the court,
that the said Sheriff, from sickness, is not able to attend said court.

§3860. When a rule absolute has been obtained against any
_officer for the payment of money as provided in this chapter,
such rule shall have the same lien upon the property, both real
and personal, of such officer as an ordinary udgment at law, and
if not punctually paid, such demand shall thereafter draw an interest at the rate of twenty per cent. per annum, and the plaintifff may have either an attachment or an execution issued from
said rule absolute, and may have either of said processes returned, and the other issued at pleasure.

§ 3861. If any Sheriff or Coroner shall fail to make a proper
.return of all writs, executions, and other processes put into his
hands, or shall fail to pay over all monies received on such executions, on his being required so to do by the court, he shall be
liable to an action as for contempt, and may be fined, imprisoned, or removed from office, in the manner prescribed by the constitution and laws.

§3862. If any attorney shall retain in his hands any money
received by him for any client, after being ordered by the court
‘to pay over the same to the principal, he shall be stricken from
the list of attorneys.

§3863. All Deputy Sheriffs shall be liable to be ruled and attached in the same way and manner as Sheriffs; but the liability of the Sheriff shall not be affected by any such proceeding
against his deputy, when the same is not effective.

§3864. Whenever the Sheriff or his deputy is a party to said
rule, or interested therein, and there be no Coroner, or other
lawful oiiicer of said county to execute the same, it shall be the
duty of the Judge, or Justice, or Justices of said court, to ap~
point, pro tempore, a special officer to carry out and effectuate
the order of said court, which said officer so, appointed, shall be
allowed the usual fees of Sheriffs for like service.

§ 3865. Justices of the Peace and Constables shall be so far considered officers of the Superior Court, as to be subject to be ruled
under similar regulations as are herein provided in relation to
any other oiiicer of said court, and shall be subject to all the
pains and penalties herein provided, in case of a rule absolute
against Sheriffs and other oliicers of said court, when they, or
either of them, shall refuse or neglect to pay over any money
which they may have received or collected in their official capacity.

TITLE XIII.
or PROCEEDINGS To FORECLOSE MORTGAGES.

CHAPTER 1. Of mortgages on real estate—how foreclosed.
CHAPTER 2. Of mortgage on personalty—how foreclosed.

 

CHAPTER I.
MORTGAGES ox REAL ESTATE—HOW FORECLOSED.

ARTICLE 1. Of the application—when and how made.
ARTICLE 2. Defences, pleas—when and how made.
ARTICLE 3. Of the judgment, disposition of property, 6:0.
ARTICLE 4. Of the proceeds of sale—how appropriated.

 

ARTICLE 1.

APPLICATION To FORECLOSE—WHEN, WHERE, AND now MADE, qu
‘ PROCEEDINGS TIIEREON.

SECTION. SECTION.
3866. Mortgage ouland—howforeclosed.| 3867. Executors, 53c. may foreclose.

§3866. Mortgages on real estate in Georgia, shall be foreclosed in the following manner, to wit: any person applying and
entitled to foreclose such mortgage shall, by himself, or his attorney, petition the Superior Court of the county wherein the
mortgaged property may be, which petition shall contain a statement of the case, the amount of the petitioner’s demand, and a
description of the property mortgaged; whereupon the court
shall grant a rule, directing the principal, interests and costs, to
be paid into court, on or before the first day of the next term
immediately succeeding the one at which such rule is granted ;
which rule shall be published once a month, for four months, or
served on the mortgagor, or his special agent or attorney, at
least three months previous to the time at which the money is
directed to be paid into court, as aforesaid.

§3867. If the person entitled to foreclose the mortgage on real
estate be dead, the application and proceeding to foreclose may
be made and prosecuted by his executor or administrator.

ARTICLE II.
0F PLEAS, DEFENCES, &c.—WHEN AND HOW MADE. '

Samoa. Sscnox.
3868. Defences against foreclosure. 3870. Proceedings against executors, &c.
3869. Third persons cannot defend. 3871. Issue—how tried. ‘

§3868. When a rule ml 82' to foreclose a mortgage on real esotate has been granted, and the same has been published ori
served, as hereinbefore required, the mortgagor, or his special}
agent or attorney, may appear at the term of the court at which
the money is directed to be paid, and file his objections to the
foreclosure of such mortgage, and may set up and avail himself
of any defense which he might lawfully set up in an ordinary
suit, instituted on the debt or demand secured by such mortgage,
and which goes to show that the applicant is not entitled to, the
foreclosure sought, or that the amount claimed is not due; Provided, that the facts of such defense are verified by the affidavit
of such mortgagor, or special agent or attorney, at the time of
filing the same.

§3869. If the mortgagor, or his special agent or attorney,‘
fail to set up the defense provided for in the preceding section,1
it is not competent for any third person to interpose; neither
will the court itself, of its own motion do so.

§3870. When the mortgagor is dead, the proceeding to foreclose the mortgage on real estate may be instituted against his
executor or administrator. ;

§3871. When proceedings to foreclose a mortgage are insti—
tuted, and a defense is set up thereto, as hereinbefore provided,
the issue shall be submitted to and tried by a special jury, as in

appeal cases. ————-—

ARTICLE III.
or THE JUDGMENT AND DISPOSITION or MORTGAGE PROPERTY.

SECTION 387 2. Judgment of foreclosure and sale.

§3872. When the mortgagor, after being directed so to do,,
fails to pay the principal, interest and cost, as hereinbefore.re-;
quired; and also fails to set up and sustain his defense against
the foreclosure of the mortgage, the court shall give judgment

for the amount which may be due on such mortgage, and shall
order the mortgaged property to be sold in the manner, and under the same regulations which govern Sheriffs’ sales under execution.

ARTICLE IV.

PROCEEDS OF SALE OF MORTGAGED PROPERTY—HOW APPROPRIATED.

SECTION. SECTION.
3873. Disposition of proceeds. 3874. When proceeds maybe retained.

§387 3. The money arising from the sale of mortgaged property, brought to sale under the regulations hereinbefore prescribed, shall be paid to the person foreclosing the mortgage, unless claimed by some other lien in the hands of the officer, which
in law has priority of payment over the mortgage; and when
there shall be any surplus after paying off such mortgage or other
liens, the same shall be paid to the mortgagor or his agent.

§3874. If the mortgage is given to secure a debt due by instalments, and is foreclosed before any one of the instalments
'falls due, and there is a surplus of funds, as above stated, the
court may retain the funds, or order the same invested to meet
the instalment still unpaid.

CHAPTER II.
or MORTGAGES ON PERSONAL PROPERTY—HOW FORECLOSED.

ARTICLE 1. Of the application—by whom and how made.
ARTICLE 2. Of the defenses—when and how made.

 

ARTICLE 1.

OF THE APPLICATION TO FORECLOSURE—BY WHOM AND HOW MADE. ‘

Samoa. . Sscrtox.
3875. On personalty—how foreclosed. 3880. Proceedings thereon.
3876. Levy and sale of property. 3881. Sale, and disposition of proceeds.
3877. When the fi. fa. may claim money. 3882. Executors, &c., may foreclose.
3878. Property may be sold by consent. 3883. Contest of lien by third persons.
3879. Amdavit of illegality.

§3875. Mortgages on personal property shall be foreclosed in
the following manner, to Wit: Any person holding a mortgage on

personal property, and wishing to foreclose the same, shall, either:
in person, or by his agent or attorney in fact or at law, go before:
some otticer of this State who is authorized by law to administer '
oaths, or a commissioner for this State residing in some other
State, and make affidavit of the amount of principal and interest
due on such mortgage, which atiidavit shall be annexed to such
mortgage, and when such mortgage, with such affidavit annexedJ
thereto, shall he produced to the Judge of the Superior Court,
whose circuit embraces the county wherein the mortgagor resides at the date of the foreclosure, if a resident of this State, or
where he resided at the date of the mortgage, if not a resident
of this State, or to any one of the Justices of the Inferior Court
of such county, it shall be the duty of such Judge or Justice to
pass an order declaring such mortgage foreclosed, and directing the
Clerk of the Superior Court (if the order is passed by the Judge)
or the Clerk of the Inferior Court of said county (if the order isg
passed by the Justice) to issue an execution for such principal
and interest, and for the sale of the mortgaged property, as on a
judgment, which order shall also be annexed to the mortgage;
and when the mortgage, with the affidavit and order aforesaid
annexed thereto, are delivered to the said Clerk of the Superior
or Clerk of the Inferior Court as the order may be passed by the
Judge or Justice as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of such Clerk
to issue an execution, directed to all and singular the Sheriii's1
and Coroners of this State, commanding a sale of the mortgaged
property to satisfy the said principal and interest, together with
the costs of the proceedings to foreclose the said mortgage.

{$3876. When the execution mentioned in the preceding sec-J
tion shall be delivered to the Sheriff or Coroner, as the case may:
be, it shall be his duty to levy on the mortgaged property Whereso— ‘
ever the same may be found, and after advertising the same
in one or more of the public gazettes of this State, at least sixty
days before the day of sale, the said Sheriff or Coroner shall put
up and expose said property to sale at the time and place, and in
the same manner as govern in case of Sheriii's’ sales.

 3877. If other fas. are levied on the mortgaged property”
and the same is sold after an advertisement of only thirty days,-i

the mortgage  fa. may, nevertheless, claim the proceeds of the'
sale, if its lien is superior.

 

§3878. If a mortgage on realty or personalty is not foreclosd ed, and the equity of redemption is levied on by other ji. feta, by
' consent of the mortgagor and mortgagee, and the plaintiE in the
' ji. fa. levied, the entire estate may be sold, and the mortgagee
claim under his lien, in the same manner as if his mortgage was

foreclosed.

ARTICLE II.
0]? THE DEFENCES—WHEN AND HOW MADE.
SECTION. Snc'nou.
3879. Affidavit of Illegality. 3882. Executor-s, to, may foreclose.
3880. Proceedings thereon. 3883. Contest of lien by third persons.

3881. Sale and disposition of proceeds.

, §387 9. When an execution shall issue upon the foreclosure of

La mortgage on personal property, as hereinbefore directed. the
mortgagor, or his special agent, may file his aiiidavit of illegality
to such execution, in which afhdavit he may set up and avail
himself of any defense which he might have set up according to
law, in an ordinary suit upon the demand secured by the mort—
gage, and which goes to show that the amount claimed is not
due.

. §3880. When an aiiidavit of illegality shall be filed to a mortgage execution, as provided for in the preceding section, the
Judge or Justice who passed the order of the foreclosure, may
order the levying oiiicer to postpone the sale of the mortgaged
property upon the mortgagor, or his special agent ora ttorney,
giving bond with good and suiiicient security, in double the
amount of such execution, conditioned for the return of such
property when called for by the levying oiiicer, which bond shall
be made payable to the plaintifff, who may sue and recover thereon when the condition is broken ; and when such aHidavit of illegality is filed, and such order of postponement is passed, and
such bond has been given, the levying oilicer shall postpone the
sale of said property and return all the proceedings and papers
to the next term of the court whose Clerk issued the execution,
where the questions and issues shall be tried as other cases of
illegality; and the jury shall be sworn to give at least twentyfive per cent. damages to the plaintifff on the principal sum, in
case it shall appear that the affidavit of illegality was filed for a
delay only.

§3881. If the mortgagor fails to set up and sustain his de-I
fence as hereinbefore authorized, the mortgaged property shall bei
' sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to the judg—i
ment of said mortgage execution, unless such proceeds are
claimed by some other lien in the hands of the officer, entitled in
law to priority of payment; and if, after the satisfaction of ‘ sueh
ji. fa. or other lien, there may be any surplus, the same shall be
paid to the mortgagor or his agent.
§3882. When the holder of a mortgage on personal property
is dead, the affidavit and proceedings to foreclose may be made?
and prosecuted by his executor or administrator; and if the mortgagor be dead, his legal representative may set up the same defenses which he could do if living.

§ 3883. If any creditor of the mortgagor, whether his debt be
in judgment or not, desires to contest the validity or fairness of
the mortgage lien or debt, he may make an affidavit of the
grounds upon which he relies to defeat such mortgage, and upon
filing the same with the levying officer, together with a bond and
good security, payable to the mortgagee, and conditioned to pay
all costs and damages incurred by the delay, if the issue be
found against the contestant, it shall be the duty of such oiiicer
to return the same to the court to which the mortgage  fa. is
returnable, to be tried in the manner prescribed above for an af£davit of illegality by the mortgagor.

TITLE XIV.
OF PROCEEDINGS TO ESTABLISH LOST PAPERS.

 

CHAPTER I.
LOST PAPERS—WHEN, WHERE, AND HOW ESTABLISHED.

ARTICLE 1. Establishment of lost papers—in what courts.
ARTICLE 2. Establishment of lost papers in Justices’ Court.

 

ARTICLE I.
ESTABLISHMENT OF LOST PAPERS 1N SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR COURTS.

SECTION. SECTION.
3884. omee papers establis‘d on motion. 3889. Certified endorsement Of copy.
3885. Papers sued on, office p’p’s—when 3890. Suits on lost papers.
3886. Other papers—how established. 3891. Oyer cannot be demanded.
3887. Continuance—when granted. 3892. Lost executions—how established
3888. Rule absolute. l

. §3884. Upon the loss of any original bill in equity, answer, replil
I

cation, declaration, plea, bill Of indictment, special presentment,
or other Omce paper, acopy may be established instanter on motion.

§3885. The instrument sued on shall be deemed an ethos paper, after the case Of which it is the foundation has gone to the
appeal.

§3886. The owner of a paper, (other than an ethos. paper, and
which can not be sued on and collected in a Justices’ Court,)
lost or destroyed, desiring to establish the same, shall present to i
the Clerk of the Superior or Inferior Court Of the county where
the maker of the paper resides, if a resident of this State, a petition in writing, together with a copy, in substance, of the paper lost or destroyed, as near as he can recollect, which copy
shall be sworn to by the petitioner, his agent or attorney;
whereupon the clerk shall issue a rule mi .975 in the name of the
Judge of the Superior Court, if the application be made to the
Clerk Of such Superior Court, and in the name of one Of the
Justices of the Inferior Court, if the application be made to the
Clerk of such Inferior Court, calling upon the Opposite party to
show cause, if any he has, why the copy sworn to should not be
established in lieu of the lost or destroyed original; which rule
shall be served by the SheriE, his deputy, or any Constable of

_____...—.

 

i._. ___.____ ’ “Ai-t mmw_

this State, personally, upon the party, if to be found in this:
State. twenty days before the sitting of the Court to which the
rule m? .97? is made returnable; and if the party cannot be found
in this State, then the rule shall be published in some public gazette of this State for the space of three months before the linal
hearing of the rule.

§3887. In a proceeding to establish lost papers under the pro-f
visions of the preceding section, no continuance shall be granted, I
unless it appear reasonable and just to the court; nor shall a
continuance be allowed to the same party more than once, except for Providential cause.

§3888. When the rule mi 873 has been duly served, as hereinbe-l
fore provided, the court shall grant a rule absolute establishing1
the copy of the lost or destroyed paper sworn to, unless good and
suiiicient cause be shown why such rule absolute should not be
granted.

§3889. When the copy is established, the Clerk of the court:
in which it is done shall furnish the copy to the party who had a
- it established, with a certified endorsement thereon of the day
and term of the court when the rule absolute was granted; Provided, all costs of the proceeding are paid.

§3890. If the paper lost or destroyed be a note, bill, bond,s
or other instrument upon which suit may be brought, the ownerI
thereof may institute suit thereon so soon as the rule mi .923 has
been issued as hereinbefore provided for, and it shall be set forth
in the declaration that the paper sued on is lost or destroyed;
and in no case shall there be a udgment had in such suit until it
shall be determined whether the application to establish the paper be granted or not; and if granted, then judgment shall be
had as in other cases.

§389L In a suit, such as provided for in the preceding section, 1
oyer of the paper sued on shall not he demanded until at thel
time of the rendition of judgment in such suit, and then if the
plaintiE' produce a copy of the paper, with a certified endorsement thereon by the Clerk of the Court in which it was established, as hereinbefore directed, it shall be taken and considered
as the original.

§ 3892. When any execution which shall have been regularly
issued from the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State shall he,
lost or destroyed, the Judge or either of the J ustices of the 0mm
from which the same issued, may at any time, either in open

court or vacation, upon proper application being made and the
facts proven by the affidavit. of the applicant, his agent or attorney, or by any other satisfactory proof, grant an order for the issuing of an alias execution in lieu of the lost original execution.

 

ARTICLE II.
ESTABLISHMENT or LOST PAPERS IN THE JUSTICES’ sonar.

Ssc'nox. Sac-non.
3893. Of papers belonging to a suit. 3895. Establishment of lost executions.
3894. Establishment of other papers.

§3893. When any bond, bill, note, or other evidence of debt,
or any summons, execution, or any other paper belonging or appertaining to any suit or other proceeding in any Justices’ Court
of this State shall be lost, destroyed, or mislaid from the hands
of the Justice of the Peace, such Justice may, by reason and virtue of his office, establish instanter, a copy in substance of such
paper in lieu of the original so lost; and if any such paper he lost,
destroyed, or mislaid from the hands of any person other than
the Justice of the Peace, the party, plaintifff or defendant, or any
one interested wishing to use such lost paper, shall be permitted
to establish and use in lieu of the original, a substantial copy of
the same, by making affidavit of the loss of the original, and that
the copy proposed to be used is a copy in substance of the lost
original.

§3894. The owner of a lost paper, which may according to law
.be sued on and collected in a Justices’ Court, who wishes to establish the same, may present to one of the Justices of the Peace of
the district in which the maker resides, if a resident of this State,
a c0py in substance of the paper lost as nearly as he can recollect,
which copy shall be sworn to by the applicant, his agent or attorney, or be proved by other evidence ; whereupon such Justice of
the Peace shall issue a rule mi 875, calling upon the opposite party
to show cause, if any he has, why the copy should not be established in lieu of the original so lost or destroyed; which rule shall
be served upon the party personally, if to be found, ten days before the sitting of the court to which lie is called upon to show
cause, by any Constable of the State, and if the party is not to
.be found then the rule may be published in a public gazette of
this State for one month, before the iinal hearing of the rule; and

if no suiiicient cause be shown. the Justice shall give judgment
establishing the copy in lieu of the original so lost or destroyed;
and the copy so established shall be certified to by the J usticc

of the Court in which it was established and shall have all the

force and effect of the original.

§3895. Executions issued from the Justices’ Courts of this
State, when lost or destroyed, may be supplied by an alias execution, to be issued by the Justice of the Peace, under the' same
rules and regulations as those which prevail in the Superior Court
on the subject of issuing alias executions.

TITLE XV.
or PROCEEDING To OBTAIN PARTITION.

CHAPTER 1. Partition ofland—how obtained.
CHAPTER 2. Partition of personal property—how obtained.

 

CHAPTER I.
PARTITION or LAND—HOW OBTAINED.

ARTICLE 1. Where, how and by whom application must be made.
ARTICLE 2. Notice to parties—how given and upon whom served.
ARTICLE 3. Of issuing, execution and return of writ of partition.
ARTICLE 4. Defences—how and when made.

ARTICLE 5. Of the judgment.

ARTICLE 6. Remedy of parties absent from the State.

 

ARTICLE I.

WHERE, HOW AND BY WHOM THE APPLICATION FOR PARTITION
MUST BE MADE.

SECTION. ‘ iSncrrox.
3896. Proceedings to obtain partition. 3897. By whom application may be made

933896. In all cases where two or more persons are common
owners of lands and tenements in this State, whether by descent,
purchase or otherwise, and no provision is made by will or otherwise as to how such lands and tenements are to be divided, any
one, of such common owners may apply to the Superior Court of

 

__——._T_—__—.———_k

the county in which such lands and tenements are situated, for
a writ of partition, which application shall be by petition setting
forth plainly and distinctly the facts and circumstances of the
case, describing the premises to be partitioned and defining the
share and interest of each of the parties therein. .

§3S97. If the party desiring the writ of partition be of full
age, and free from disability, he may make the application either
in person or by his agent or attorney in fact or at law, and if the
application is for the benefit of a minor, a'lunatic,  covert or.
cestui qua trust, it may be made by the guardian of such minor
or lunatic, by the husband of such fame covert, or the trustee of
Of such cestui gue trust, as the case may be.

 

ARTICLE II.
NOTICE TO THE PARTIES—HOW GIVEN AND ON WHOM SERVED.

Samoa! 3898. Twenty days’ notice of the application.

§3898. The party applying for the writ of partition, shall give
'to the other parties concerned at least twenty days’ notice of his
intention tO make application, and if any of such other parties
concerned be a minor, a lunatic, a cestui qua trust or feme covert
said twenty days’ notice may be served on the guardian of such
minor or lunatic, or on the trustee of such cestml qua trust, or on
the husband of such fame covert, and if any of the parties reside
without the limits Of this State, the court may order service by
publication, as in its judgment is right in each case.

 

ARTICLE III.
or ISSU’ING, EXECUTION AND RETURN OF THE WRIT OF PARTITION.

SECTION. [Samoa
3899. Five partitioncrs—how appoinetd.1 3900. Power and duty of partitioners.

§3899. When the application for partition is made, and when
due proof is made that the notice hereinbefore required has been
given, the court shall examine the petitioner’s title, and part
or share of the premises to be partitioned, and shall thereupon
pass an order directing the Clerk Of such court to issue a writ
of partition, framed according to the nature of the case, directed
° to five t'rceholders of the county in which the lands are situated,
who shall execute and return the writ as hereinafter provided.

§3900. The partitioners, or persons to whom the writ is di-:
rected, shall have power to select a surveyor to aid them in the
tiir-i'ilill’gt’ ul' tin-11' 1121:1115. and alter giving :111 1111111:11'Ti1’s.11" 1111:;—
siiiii‘.:1i 11:11.4" 1_-i;_fhi 11:1}14'1111111'11 111‘ [111‘ T111111-111'1*\1*I.'IIT111;;'illi‘u'l’ih.
111111 :11'11-1'1n_-i11;:s\1'nl‘z'1 lit‘iill'l‘ Hulm' ullivvl' :mthm‘im'd 11_\‘ 111W T11
1111111111151'111'sin‘h 11:1111,(1111y111111 i11111:11'Ii;111_\" 1111",\11('11T1+>11r'11 writ.
Thu 511111 11:11'1111111101'11. or :1 111:1jority 111' 11111111. shall prawme i11111:11{1'
1-1. ju.-:t 11ml 111111111 partition 111111 lli\'ir-il)ll or" 1:11 ant-h 1:111:15 and ten.
ements. either in entire trail-ts or parcels as. 1111*}‘9111111 judge 11: 1.11.111
in proportion to The. shares 01111111011. 111111 11111141 1H”lil.‘1l('l:tl tn the
several («11111111111comer-s of said 11111115111111 11111111111111ts. :11rm'11'11111gto
the. 11151:. 111' their slti11, :lhility 11ml 1(11nk1'11111gv. 111111 they shall 1‘1)—
1111'11 said 11'1'it,with t1iei1'11rt'i11gs :111111.1~i11gsthereon.11111‘1111'tl1eir
11:11111s111111 seals, in the said Superior (‘11111'1' within three months
:Li'tei'the issuing of 911111 writ. \1'11iv11r11r111'11 5111111 1111111011 :111tlkvpt
11F 11111511111 (ilm'l; 1111111 the next Turin ni'sniil ('om't :li'ttfi' 1110111iilg oi. the 14:11111'.

ARTICLE IV.
, DEFENCES—HOW AND WHEN MADE.

SECTION 3901. Defences—how and when made.

§390L At the term of the court when the application is made
--or at the term next after said partitioners have made their re—;
turn, any of the defendants or persons concerned, against whom1
or whose right or title a judgment is sought may file objections
to the right of the applicant and the writ of partition, or to the
return of the partitioners, and may, by way of defense, show any
good and probable matter in bar of the partition asked for, or
may show that the demandant has not title to so much as is allowed and awarded to him by the said partitioners, or to any
part of the land, whereupon an issue shall be made up and tried
by a special jury, as in appeal cases.

ARTICLE V.
OF THE JUDGMENT.

SECTION. SECTION.
3902. The return of the partitioners. 3905. Titles to property sold.
3903. If lands cannot be divided. 3906. Cases not provided for.

3901-. Proceeds of sale—how disposed of.

§3902. If no objection be filed by any of the parties to the.
3return of the partitioners, or if being filed, the ury, on the trial,
shall find a verdict against the party setting up such objections,
the said return of the partitioners shall be made the judgment
of the court, and shall be final and conclusive as to all the parties concerned who were notified of the application for partitition, and of the time of executing the writ, as hereinbefore required, and a writ of possession shall issue accordingly; but if objections to said returns be filed and sustained by the jury trying
the case, or if it shall appear to the court that there is injustice
or inequality in the division made by the partitioners, said court
shall award a new partition, to be made in the presence of the
parties concerned, (if they will appear) which second partition,
when returned, shall be iirm, good, and conclusive forever against
all parties notified as aforesaid.

$3903. Whenever application is made for partition of lands
and tenements as hereinbefore provided for, and either of the
parties in interest shall make it satisfactorily appear to the court
that a fair and equitable division of the lands and tenements
cannot be made by means of .metes and bounds, by reason of improvements made thereon, or by reason of the premises being
valuable for mining purposes, or for the erection of mills or other
machinery, or that the value of the entire lands and tenements
will be depreciated by the partition applied for, then and in thatcase the court shall order a sale of such lands and tenements,
_and shall appoint three discreet persons to conduct such sale
runder such regulations, and upon such just and equitable terms
as said court may prescribe ; which sale shall take place on the
first Tuesday in the month, at the court-house of the county in
‘which the land is situated, after an advertisement of such sale in
'some public gazette of this State for at least thirty days.

§3904. After the sale of any lands and tenements, as provided
,for in the preceding section, the commissioners conducting the
sale shall return their proceedings to the next term of the court

ordering such sale, at which term the said court shall order the
proceeds of the sale to be divided among the several claimants
ratahly in proportion to their respective interests after deductin};llii*t-x1avllr~l-snf'llwirI'eH-t'wlings.

§:lllll:l. lVIH'lI tlu- Hlll) nl' lnmls :mt'l tmwnwnts as :lll.ll't’.r-'~:lltl. the
lull‘llL-s in lllll’l'L‘r—l shall execute H title to tlu: pun-lunar, and if any
of" Them [all or I'vl'ur-tr lllllll so. the saicl Commisshmm's, so :llbl'mllllml :1.-‘-:1llnl'[’.-‘:llr.l, or any two of tlwm. shall uxw'ute :1 {let-(l ol'mm—
\'t’.\‘:1ll('L' to mill l:llt{l.~‘~ :Iml It'nmncuts to The purvllasvr at such
sale, whirl: (lml shall he ‘s'illlll :nul lnincling in law and equity as
if mailv ln'v the parties themselves.

9' IiiHNi. in any t-xtmcu‘tlimn'y ('HSU. llUl ('ux'm'cdl_n'\'tl1t!Ti'u'egming
provisions, tin: maan may immi- its proceeding aml order :m as to
meet ilu't‘xl;_'”t'1it'_\' of the mist without fun-inf; the parties into a
(.‘ulll'f ut' t'allllly. :nul illt'. wurt may deny :1saleofpal'tition alto
gutlwl'. if it is Ill:llJlll_r.~'~i that the interest of ('Ht‘ll part): Will Not
lw illllly lll'lllt'L'li‘tl.

ARTICLE VI.
REMEDY or PARTY ABSENT, UNDER DISABILITY, OR NOT NOTIFIED.

SECTION. 3907. Parties laboring under disabilities.

§3907. When proceedings have been instituted, and judgment
of partition had thereon, according to the regulations prescribed
in this Code, and any one of the parties in interest is aminor, or
a lunatic who has no guardian, or is absent from the State during
such proceeding, or has not been notified thereof, such minor or
lunatic may, within twelve months after coming of age, or restoration of mind, or having a guardian appointed ; and such absent or unnotified party may, at any time within twelve months
after rendition of the judgment, move the court to set aside such
judgment on any of the grounds upon which a party notified
and free from disabilities might have resisted the judgment upon the hearing, as hereinbefore authorized, and the issue shall be
tried, and the subsequent proceedings shall be the same as pointed
out in cases of objections filed to the return of the partitioners
before judgment; and if such motion to set aside the judgment
be not made within the time aforesaid, such judgment shall he as
binding and conclusive upon such minor, lunatic, absent or unnotified party, as if he had been notified, present or free from

disability. But in no event shall such subsequent proceedings aliifect the title Of a bonajide purchaser under a sale ordered by the
court.

CHAPTER II.
PARTITION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY—HOW OBTAINED.

SECTION 3908. Personal property may be partitioned.

§3908. Application may be made, and partition Of personal
property may be obtained, in the same manner and under the
same regulations as are prescribed in this Code for obtaining partition of lands and tenements.

TITLE XVI.
PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATION FOR HABEAS CORPUS.

CHAPTER I.
PROCEEDINGS ON APPLICATION FOR mums CORPlfS.

SECTION. SECTION.
3909. Habeas corpus, &.c., may issue. 3921. A majority must hear the return.

3910. Application—how made, &c. 3922. Return may be traversed.
3911. How verified, and to whom made. ' 3923. Attachment for disobedience.

3912. When the writ must be granted. 3924. When party cannot be discharged.
3913. Form of the writ. 3925. Wife and child may be disposed of.
3914. Return day of the writ. 3926. Defect in warrant. &c.

3915. Service of the writ. 3927. Powers of the court in Other cases.
3916. Arrest of the party detained. 3928. Imprisoned witnesses, kc.

3917. What time return must be made. 3929. Discretion of court as to costs.
3918. Return sworn tO—produc’n of body. 3930. Proceedings to be recorded.

3919. Process must be produced. ' 3931. N otiee of the hearing.
3920. Return must state the transfer, 

 

 

.
I

§ 3909. Any person restrained Of his liberty, under any pretext

- Whatever, in this State, or any person alleging that another in
whom for any cause he is interested is restrained Of his liberty, or
kept illegally from the custody of the applicant, may sue out a
writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the legality Of such restraint.
And this right shall be suspended or denied only in times of ex:

istiug war, and then only as to such persons as shall he in military confinement.

§3910. The application for the writ shall be by petition in A
writing. signed by the applicant, his attorney or agent, or some;
other person in his behalf, and shall state— °
_ 1. The name or description of the person whose liberty is
restrained.

2. The person restraining; the mode of restraint and the place
of detention as nearly as practicable.

3. The cause or pretense of such restraint, and if under pretext
of legal process, a copy of such process, if within the power of the
applicant, must be annexed to the petition.

4. A distinct averment of the alleged illegality in the restraint,
or other reason why the writ of habeaa corpus is sought.

5. A prayer for the writ of habeae 6W8.

§3911. Such petition must be verified by the oath of the appli-r
cant, or some other person in his behalf, and must be presented]
to the Judge of the Superior Court, if within the county of the al-1
leged illegal detention, or in his absence, to any Justice of Inferior Court of such county. But if the applicant sees proper, he
may make the application to the Judge of the Superior Court of
the circuit, who may order the party restrained of his liberty, to
be brought before him, from any county in his circuit.

§3912. If upon examination of such petition it shall not appeal-1
to such Judge or Justice that such restraint of liberty is legal, ;
he shall grant the writ of habeas corpus, requiring the person
thus restraining the liberty of another, or illegally detaining another in his custody, to bring such person before him, at a time
and place, to be specified in the writ, for the purpose of an examination into the cause of such detention.

$3913. The writ of habeas corpus may be substantially as fol-1
lows; that is to say— ‘

STATE OF GEORGIA, }

County.
To A. B. ‘

“You are hereby commanded to produce the body, 0. D., a].
leged to be illegally detained by you, together with the cause of
such detention, before me. on the day of at then and
there to be disposed of as the law directs.”

“Given under my hand and official signature, this the day

of (Signed) E. F.

-§:i‘.lll. The. return (lay nt' .4th writ :-ll:lll always he. within
twenty days after the. lll'L'hL‘lllililHll nl' the petition Ihereliir.

§31l13, Hut-h writ shall he t-Sl.‘l'\'(_'l.l. by thjliwring :1 («my nf' the
,8111110, by :my ntlimet' :mtlwrim::l in make :1 return Hi" :“my lil'eltf1_’r«.~'~.
«)1‘ by any ui'lit'l' ('liiZl'll. aml Tl1(_"('1ii1"\.'tvl'hlll'llHllh't'l‘ul' the :lliltlu—
\‘it nl'suuh {-ilizvn. r-llilll In: sullivimit l".'lil1*lll'{' nl' 511v]: survive.
The perm}: serving? llw \x'r'it shrill exhibit the urig‘inul ii' Required
:40 to tie. Ilipol'snnal “arrive mmmt in! Mil-i-tuil, the writ may he
servml 1,}. 1””ng :1 “HEW M r119 huuw, jail. ul‘ mtth plum} in
whivh the. party in where lu‘*li:1ll"1hi_* \x'l'it lr-rlllfr-l is detained.
§i.}‘.llti. it with tth IHJTiIlHIl llH‘l‘P shall lm iihnl the :illithtvit «If
“the uplilii-nllt', That in! lms n-m-‘nn in :llilll'tillt‘lltl that the party (it"TaillngHl'llnlt.llll;1‘ll1(*nlll('l‘ill('HélIUILV'n'lll i-u'muu- him heyuml
tlmlimitsnl'ilwm)11111.\',ni'e'nnm-alhim ll‘nm rhv Hillr'i'l'rw ni' llll'
law. slit-h Judge ul' .lusliwu granting Thu writ. .-ll:lll ill the gum:
time issue. his lrl‘t'l‘t'irl' dire-Mn] In tiers. hhwi'ili'. llvlrm}: Flu-rill:
(__‘a_:1'1.im-1'ur:my hm'l‘ul (' Iflwf:lla.{' HI" Thw mum}; requiring them
In smu'vh lin' :m l :m'w: flu-h sly «:i'lhu {N'l'étlll Ila-{:1i1'lnr=.l.:1ml bring;
llilll lIL_']i11'L'i~'lli'llrlll'lgi‘ul‘ -ll]-—'1it'i* 1.: lw Ili~'}r!>.~i'il Hi. :14 l'w :HH'Y
I'l  I‘m ' ti.
, §3917. The return of the party served with the writ, shall be
'made at the time and place specified; Provided, two days from
the time of service shall be allowed; for every twenty miles
which such party has to travel from the place of detention, to
the place appointed for the hearing, and if the service has not
been made a sufficient time before the hearing, to cover the time
allowed in this section to reach the place of hearing, such return
shall be made within the time so allowed, immediately after the
service.
. §3918. Every return to a writ of habeaa corpus shall be under
oath, and if the custody or detention of the party in whose behalf
the writ issues be admitted, his body shall be produced, unless
prevented by Providential cause, or prohibited by the law of the
land.

§3919. In every case where the detention is justiiied under lelgal process, such legal process shall  produced and submitted
to the Judge or Justices at the hearing of the return.

§3920. If the return denies the custody or detention of the
party, it shall further state, distinctly, the latest date at which the
custody was had, and when and to whom transferred, and if it

shall appear that such transfer of custody was made to avoid the

writ of habeas corpus, the party making the return may be imprisoned in the discretion of the Judge or Justices hearing the same,
until the body of the party kept or detained shall be produced.

§ 3921. If the writ be issued by a Justice of the Inferior Court,
the return shall be heard by at least a majority of the Justices of
such court.

§3922. If the return denies any of the material facts stated
in the petition, or alleges others upon which issue is taken, the
Judge or Justices hearing the return, may, in a summary manner, hear testimony as to such issue, and to that end may compel
the attendance of witnesses, the production of papers, or may adjourn the examination of the question, or exercise any other power of a court which the principles of justice may require.

§3928. Any person disregarding the writ of habeas corpus in
any manner whatever, shall be liable to attachment for contempt,
issued by the Judge or Justice granting the writ, under which
attachment such person may be imprisoned un til he shall comply
with the legal requirements of the writ.

§3924. No person shall be discharged upon the hearing of a
writ of habeas corpus in the following cases, to wit:

1. Where he is imprisoned under lawful process, issued from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless in cases where bail is
allowed and proper bail is tendered.

2. When the return is heard by the Justices of the Inferior
Court, and the party is imprisoned under final process, or order
issued from the Superior Court.

3. In no case on account of non-payment of jail fees, unless
the application is made by the person to whom the fees are due,
and at least ten days’ notice has been given to the person from
whom the fees are due, his agent or attorney, prior to the application for the writ.

4. By .reason of any irregularity in the warrant or commitment, where the same substantially conforms to the requirements
of this Code—nor for want of bond to prosecute.

5. Where the party is imprisoned under a bench warrant regular upon its face.

6. By reason of any misnomer in the warrant or commitment,
where the court is satisfied that the party detained is the party

charged with the offense.
7. Where the party is in custody for a contempt of court, and

the court has not exceeded its jurisdiction in the length of the
imprisonment imposed.
8. In no other case where it appears that the detention is anthorized by law.
r §3925. In all writs of habeas corpus sued out on account of
3the detention of a wife or child, the court, on hearing all the facts,
may exercise its discretion as to whom the custody of such wife
or child shall be given, and shall have power to give such custody
of a child to a third person.
§3926. If the party is detained upon a criminal charge, and
it appears to the court that there is probable cause for his detention, he shall not be discharged for any defect in the aiiidavit,
warrant, or commitment, until a reasonable time has been given
to the prosecutor to remedy the defect by a new proceeding, if
the charge is for an offense committed in another State, and he
is arrested on suspicion, he shall not be discharged if the suspicion is reasonable, until a sufficient time be given for a demand
to be made on the Governor for his rendition.
§3927. In all other cases, the Judge or Justice hearing the re' turn shall discharge, remand or admit the party to bail, or deliver him to the custody of the officer or person entitled thereto,
as the principles of law and justice may require.
. §3928. Any Judge of the Superior Court may issue his order
to any officer having any person in his custody, lawfully imprisoned, to produce such person before his court for the purpose of
giving evidence in any criminal cause pending therein, without
any formal application or writ of habeas corpus for that purpose.
§3929. The Judge or Justices hearing the return to a writ of
kebabs corpus, may, in their discretion, award the costs of the
proceeding against either party, and may order execution to issue
therefore by the Clerks of the Superior or Inferior Courts respectively.
§3930. The proceedings in all cases of Izabeas corpus shall be
returned to the Clerk of the Superior or Inferior Court of the
county whose Judge or Justices may have heard the same, and
shall be by such Clerk recorded, as in other cases, for which he
shall receive the like fees as in other cases recorded by him.
§ 3931. If the person is detained upon a criminal charge, and
the Solicitor General is in the county, he shall be notilied of the
hearing; if he is not, the notice shall be given to the prosecutor.

l.

TITLE XVII.
POSSESSORY WARRANTS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.

 

. CHAPTER I.
POSSESSORY WARRANTS AND THE PROCEEDINGS THEREON.

ARTICLE 1. By whom and on what grounds warrant may issue.
ARTICLE 2. How the warrant must be executed and returned.
ARTICLE 3. The trial, judgment, and subsequent proceedings.

 

ARTICLE 1.
BY WHOM AND ON WHAT GROUNDS THE WARRANT MAY ISSUE.

SECTION 393%. Who may issue—grounds of.

§3932. Upon complaint being made on oath by the party in- ;
jured, his agent, or attorney in fact or at law, to any Judge of i
the Superior, Justice of the Inferior Court, or Justice of the;
‘ Peace of the county in which the property in controversy may
be, that any negro or other personal chattel has been taken, enticed, or carried away, either by fraud, violence, seduction, or
other means from the possession of the party complaining, or
that such negro or other personal chattel having recently been
in the quiet, peaceable, and legally acquired possession of
such complaining party, has absconded or disappeared Without
his consent, and, as he believes, has been received, harbored or
taken possession of by the party complained against, under some
pretended claim, and without lawful warrant or authority, and
that the party complaining does in good faith claim a title to, or
interest in the negro or other personal chattel, or the possession
thereof, it shall be the duty of such Judge or Justice to issue a
warrant, as well for the apprehension of the party against whom
the complaint is made, as for the seizure of the property in controversy, which warrant shall be directed to the Sheriff, his dep-r
uty or any lawful Constable of the county aforesaid.

ARTICLE II.
HOW THE WARRANT MUST BE EXECUTED AND RETURNED.

SECTION 3933. Warrant—how executed.

§3933. The oiiicer in whose hands the possessory warrant is
placed shall forthwith proceed to apprehend and arrest the body
of the defendant, or party against whom the warrant is issued,
and also to seize the property described in the warrant, if the
same are to be found in his county, and carry the said defendant
and said property, together with the warrant, before the Judge
or Justice issuing the same, or before any other Judge or J ustice of said county. '

ARTICLE III.
THE TRIAL, JUDGMENT, AND SUBSEQUENT PROCEEDINGS.
SECTION. ‘ Snorrox.
3934. Hearing—continuance. 3937. Imprisonment of defendant.
3935. Issue—judgments, &c. 3938. (krhbrari and trial thereon.
3936. Bonds—where returned. 3939. Judgment on certiorari.

§3934. The Judge or Justice before whom a warrant for the
restoration of personal property may be returned shall, if the
parties are ready, proceed with the hearing forthwith; but if either of the parties are not ready, the hearing shall be postponed
'to some subsequent time, to be fixed by the said Judge or J ustice, so as to allow the parties a reasonable opportunity to procure their testimony, and at the same time to insure a trial with
as little delay as possible.

§3935. When the day set apartfor the trial arrives, the Judge
or Justice shall proceed to hear evidence as to the question of
possession in a summary way, without investigating the title to
the property, and shall cause the property to be delivered
to the party from whose possession the same was violently
or fraudulently taken or enticed away, or from whom the
same absconded, or in whose peaceable and lawful possession it last was; Provided, such party shall then and there
enter into a recognizance, with good and sufiicient security, in double the amount of the value of such property,
and the hire claimed, if any, to cause the said property to be produced and forthcoming to answer any judgment, execution or

'decree that may be had, issued or made upon such suit or action,
-at law or in equity, as the opposite party may commence onpros—
~ecute within the next four years touching the same; Prom'ded,
«also, that when the party taking out the warrant shall refuse or
*fail to give such security, then the Judge 01' Justice may, in his,
discretion, deliver over the property to the opposite party upon
’his entering into a like recognizance, with Security of the same
nature and effect. ‘
§3936. The Judge or Justice shall return any recognizance ta-,
~ken as provided in the preceding section to the next Superior
Court of the county where the same is taken, to be transmitted to
ithe court where any suit'or action may be commenced touching
said property, and the securities on such recognizance shall be
bound and liable for the eventual condemnation money in such
suit or action, and execution shall issue against them in the same
manner as against security on appeals. '

3987. Upon. the return of a possessory Warrant, if it shall appear that the officer cannot find, or was unable to seine the property described in the warrant, and that such property is in the
possession, power, custody or control of the defendant, or “any
agent or friend of his, or any one acting for or intrusted with the
same for him, and the said defendant doth not produce or cause
said property to be forthcoming to be dealt with as the law directs, and as the judgment of the said Judge or Justice awards,
the said defendant shall be committed to jail, there to remain in
safe and 'close custody without bail or main-prize until such
property shall be produced or forthcoming, to be disposed of as
aforesaid; Provided, always, that no person shall be so committed to jail for such failure to produce property if he can satisfactorily pro‘ve to the Judge or Justice trying the case, that such
property has been in his quiet and peaceable possession for four
years next immediately preceding the issuing of the said warrant,
but upon such proof being made, the warrant shall be dismissed;
And provided, further, that no person shall be imprisoned as
aforesaid pending an application for a certiora/ri before the Superior Court, who shall give bond and security to abide by the final
decision of the cause .

§3938. The writ of ccer lies to every decision of a ecurt
upon a possessory warrant, to be sued out as in other cases; and
upon the hearing of such Writ in the Superior Court, if them

.r the party is endanger-Id by the decision ofthe court ham.

may demand a trial before a jury empannelled as in criminal cases,
upon the issue of fact as to the alleged property being in his 13%.
session, power, custody, or control, or that of his agent, friend or
any other person for him, and the verdict of such jury shall be

conclusive on the question.
' §3939. Upon hearing the certz'orm'i the Judge may remand
the case or give final judgment and direction therein as he may

see fit.

TITLE XVIII.
OF PROCEEDINGS 0N TRIAL OF orrmeusma

 

CHAPTER I.
I
OF THE PROCEEDINGS ON THE TRIAL or cmzsusmr.

Burnox. iSEOTION.

3940. Citizenship—how disputed. } 3943. Evidence of the plaintifff.
3941. Any citizen may be made party. i 3944. Damages—when given todefendant
3942. Trial and judgment. a

. §3940. Every citizen of this State, of full age and laboring under no disability, has the right to dispute and have investigated
by process of law, the claim to citizenship set up by any other
person in the following manner, to wit: He shall file his petition
in the Superior Court of the county, against any person resident
thereof, who may claim to exercise and enjoy the rights and privileges of a free white citizen, of this State, in which he shall
distinctly allege that such person so claiming to exercise and enjoy the rights and privileges aforesaid, is of mixed blood, and not
a free white citizen, to which the Clerk of said court shall annex a
process, and a copy thereof shall be served on the defendant, in

the manner as now provided for in cases on the common law side
of said court; Provided, that before nling such petition, the person filing the same shall make oath that the facts set forth in such
petition are true, according to the best of his knowledge and
belief.

§3941. Pending any suit as provided in the preceding section,
it shall be lawful for any white citizen to make himself a party
thereto, and prosecute the same, subject to all the liabilities, as
though he had commenced such suit. '

u

553942. All suits instituted as provided in this chapter, shall
be tried by a special jury at the first term of the court to which
the same may be returnable, unless continued as provided by this
Code in cases of appeal; and final judgment shall not be rendered, either for or against the defendant, until there shall be two
concurring verdicts, as in cases of divorce, as provided by this
Code; and the final judgment so rendered shall be deemed and
held by all the courts of this State, as conclusive upon the rights
and privileges of said defendant.

§3943. On the trial of any suit instituted by the authority of
this chapter, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to prove that the
defendant is descended from, and stands in the third degree or
generation to him or her who was or is not a free White citizen
of this State, or of any other State whose constitution and laws
tolerate involuntary slavery, or that said defendant has one-eighth
of negro or African blood in his or her veins. '

§3944. Upon the trial of the case, as hereinbefore provided,
if the jury should be of opinion, from the evidence, that the pro-‘
ceeding is malicious and without probable cause, they may find
in favor of the defendant, against the plaintifff, such damages as
they‘may deem reasonable and just, under all the circumstances
of the case; and should they so find, one verdict shall be sufficient, and said defendant may enter judgment and have execu-‘
.tion thereon, as in other cases at law. ‘

TITLE XIX.
or PROCEEDINGS IN sm'rs FOR FREEDOM. .

 

CHAPTER I.
PROCEEDINGS IN SUITS FOR FREEDOM:

ARTICLE 1. Preliminary proceedings.
ARTICLE 2. Proceedings on the trial.

 

ARTICLE I.
PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS.

Madam Sam-10x.
3945. Aniduit, bond and warrant. 3948. Bond of complainant.
3946. Hearing before the. Justice. 3949. Return of the proceeding.
8947. Bond of the pretended owner.

§3945. When any free white citizen of this State shall appear ‘
before any one of the Justices of the Inferior Court of any county
in this State, in which a person of color is held in slavery, and'
make oath that he has good reason to believe, and does believe,
that such person of color is free, and is illegally and wrongfully
held in slavery, and shall also give bond and good security, payo.
able to the pretended owner of such person of color, in a sum‘
equal to the value of such person of color, conditioned to pay all
damages that may be sustained by the said pretended owner, by
reason of the proceedings to try the question of the freedom or
slavery of such person of color, together with all costs that may
accrue thereon, in the event that it shall appear, by the result of
the trial of such question, that such person of color is not entitled to his freedom, and is a slave, it shall be the duty of such
Justice of the Inferior Court to issue a warrant, directed to the.
Sheriff, his deputy, or any Constable of said county, commandingthem, or either of them, forthwith to arrest both the pretended
owner of the person of color, and the person of color himself,.
and bring them before such Justice, to the end that inquiry may
be had into the facts and circumstances of the case.

§3946. If, upon a full examination into all the facts and circumstances of the case, it shall appear to the Justice that the com—~
plaint is unfounded, the warrant shall be dismissed, and the party:

complained against shall be discharged, and permitted to retain
the custody and dominion of such person of color; but if, upon

such examination, said justice shall be satisfied that there is probable ground to believe that such person of color is improperly
and illegally held in such state of slavery, he shall give judgment
accordingly, and reduce the entire examination to writing.

§3947. If the examination shall satisfy the said Justice of the;
Inferior Court that there is probable ground to believe that such
person of color is improperly and illegally held in a state of slavery, he shall require the party complained against to enter into
bond, with two or more good securities, payable to the complainant, as the next friend of such person of color, in double the
amount that said person would be worth if a slave, conditioned
that such person of color shall not be removed beyond the limits
of this State; and that said person of color shall be produced
and forthcoming subject to the order of the court; and that the
final order and decree of the court shall be cemplied with in any
suit that may be prosecuted for the freedom of said person of
color.

§3948. If the party complained against shall fail to give the
bond provided for in the preceding section, the said Justice of
the Inferior Court shall cause the said person of color to be de
livered to the party making the affidavit and complaint, upon his
giving bond, with good security, payable to the party complained
against, in a sum equal to what said person of color would be
worth if he were a slave, conditioned for the delivery of the person of color, and the payment of his hire to the pretended owner;
Provided, it shall appear upon the trial of the suit for freedom,
that such person is a slave, and is not illegally held in slavery.

§3949. The Justice of the Inferior Court before whom the
same are had and taken, shall return the affidavit, warrant, bond
and written examination, and all other papers and proceedings
touching the same, as hereinbefore provided for, to the Clerk of
the Superior Court of the county in which the examination and
proceedings are had, and said Clerk shall docket the case, stating
the names of the parties, and the party making the affidavit shall
be plaintifff, and the party charged with holding the person of
color in slavery illegally shall be defendant.

ARTICLE II.
PROCEEDINGS ON THE TRIAL.

Sso'nos. ' Ssorrox.
3950. Petition of the plaintifff. 3954. Final judgment.
3951. Amendment of the pleadings. 5 3955. Expenses of next friend—how paid.

3952. Burden of proof—presumption. l 3956. Court may frame writ, &c.
3953. Trial and appeal. 1

§3950. When the preliminary proceedings are returned, and
the case docketed, as provided in the first article of this chapter,
the plaintifff shall file his petition, setting forth the grounds upon
which the person of color claims his right of freedom, and said
petition shall also embody the facts contained in the preliminary
examination before the Justice of the Inferior Court, and the
case shall stand for trial as other cases at common law.

§3951. The plaintifff shall be at liberty to assume any new
grounds in his petition, and the pleadings in the case shall be
subject to amendment under the same rules as govern in other
cases in the Superior Court.
’ §3952. In suit for freedom the burden of proof shall always
llie on the plaintili', and it shall be always presumed that every
negro, Indian, mulatto or mustizoe, (except free Indians in amity
with this State, and negroes, mulattoes, and mustizoes, who now
are or may hereafter become free) is a slave, unless the contrary
can be made to appear.

§3953. The issues in a suit for freedom shall be made up and
tried by a jury, as at common law trials in other cases, and
either party being dissatisfied with the verdict, may enter an appeal under the rules and regulations which prevail in other cases,
without giving bond and security, or making af’lidavit of inability so to do.

§3954. If it shall appear at the final trial of such case that
the person of color is free, the court shall order him to be set at
liberty, and a guardian to be appointed for him according to
law, and the court shall also give judgment against the defendant for damages for the full value of the hire and services of such
person of color, during the time he was illegally held in slavery
by such defendant, unless the jury trying the case is satisfied
that the claim of the defendant was bond 354:3, under the belief
that the person of color was his slave.

 

§3955. The proclwz'n ams' of such person of color shall be his:
guardian until the legitimate expenses of the litigation have been2
repaid to him by the labor of his ward, and until a new guardian
is appointed.

§ 3956. If any case should arise where the proceedings author-I
ized by this Code will not prove an efilcient remedy for a freei
person of color held in bondage, the Superior Court shall have
power to frame a writ and mould the proceedings to meet the exigencies of the case.

TITLE XX.
or THE WRIT or CERTIORARIZ

 

CHAPTER I.
or THE WRIT OF CERTIORA 1:1.

ARTICLE 1. In what cases the writ of ccrtz'omri lies.
ARTICLE 2. How obtained, and proceeding thereon.
ARTICLE 3. 0f the answer, hearing, udgment, and costs.

 

ARTICLE I.
IN WHAT CASES THE WRIT or CERTIORA m LIES.

SECTION 3957. When a writ certz'orari will lie.

§3957. The writ of certiorwri will lie for the correction of er-‘
Tors committed by the Inferior Court, or the Justices thereof,i
Justices of the Peace, Corporation Courts, or Councils, or any
inferior judicatory or any person exercising judicial powers, including the Ordinary, except in cases touching the probate of wills,
granting letters testamentary, hnd of administration.

ARTICLE II.

llOW OBTAINED. AND PROCEEDINGS THERon.

Bxcnox. [SECTION
3968. To the Inforior or Court of Or’nary. 3964. Adidavit in lieu of bonds and costs.
3969. Judge may grant out of his circuit. 3965. Must be applied for in 3 months.
3960. Justices and other inferior judi’t‘r’s 3966. Must be docketed & served 15 dam .
3961. Allidavit to petition. 3967. Ten days’ notice to adverse party.
3962. Bond a security must be given, &c.! 3968. Shall operate as a supersedeas.
3963. Security compelled to justify. '

§3958. When either party in any cause, in any Inferior Court
or Court of Ordinary, shall take exceptions to any proceeding or
decision in any cause, affecting the real merits of such cause, the—
party making the same shall offer such exceptions in writing,.
which shall be signed by himself or his attorney, and if the sameshall be overruled by the court, such party may petition the
Judge of the Superior Court for a writ of aertiorari, in which.
petition he shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth the errorscomplained of, and if such Judge shall deem the objections tobtr
schient, he shall forthwith issue a writ of certiora/NI, directed to
the Clerk of such Inferior Court or to the Ordinary, requiring
Ihim to certify and send up to the Superior Court at the time
specified in said writ all the proceedings in said cause.
. §3959. No Judge of the Superior Court shall grant or issueany writ of certiorari out of his judicial circuit, unless there
shall be a vacancy in any of the other circuits, or the J udgethereof be indisposed, or be absent therefrom, so that the busiv
ness of granting certioraris cannot be speedily done.
a §3960. When either party in any cause in a Justices’ Court,
'Corporation Court, Council, or any inferior judicatory, or before
any person exercising judicial powers, shall be dissatisfied with thedecision or judgment in such cause, such party may apply for
and obtain a writ of certiora-ri by petition to the SuperiorCourt, in which petition he shall plainly and distinctly set forth
the errors complained of. And on such petition being filed in
the oilice of the Clerk of the Superior Court, together with thebond or affidavit as hereinafter provided, it shall be the duty of '
such Clerk to issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the Justice of ‘
the Peace of the district where the decision complained of wasmade, or other tribunal or person whose decision or judgment isthe subject matter of complaint, requiring such Justice of the:

Peace, or other tribunal, or person, to certify and send up all the
proceedings in said cause to the Superior Court as directed in
said writ of certiorari.

§3961. No writ of certiora/ri shall be granted or issued, (except to the Inferior or Court of Ordinary,) unless the party applying for the same, his agent or attorney shall make and file
with his petition the following affidavit, to wit:

GEORGIA, l
County. f

I, A B., do solemnly swear that the petition for cor-Mari is
not filed in the case for the purpose of delay only, and I verily believe I have good cause for certiorami, and that the facts stated
in the foregoing petition, so far as they come within my own
knowledge are true, and so far as derived from the knowledge of
others, I believe them to be true.

Sworn to and subscribed before me, this day of
18

$3962. Before any writ of cerm'ora/ml shall issue, (except as
hereinafter provided,) the party applying for the same, his agent
or attorney shall give bond and good security, conditioned to pay
the adverse party in the cause the eventual condemnation money, together with all future costs, and shall also produce a certificate from
the clerk of the Inferior Court, or the oiiicer whose decision or judgment is the subject matter of complaint, that all costs which may
have accrued on the trial below have been paid, which bond and
certificate shall be filed with the petition for certiora/m', and the
security on said bond shall be liable as securities on appeal.

§3963. The party authorized to take said bond and security
may compel the security tendered to justify upon oath, and such
justification shall amount to such sufiiciency as to exonerate the
party taking the same from any liability. ’

§3964. If the party applying for the writ of certiorari will
make and file with his petition an afIidavit in writing that he is
advised and believes that he has good cause for certiomring the
proceedings to the Superior Court, and that owing to his poverty
he is unable to pay the cost and give security as required in the
preceding section, such affidavit shall in every respect answer
instead of the certificate and bond above mentioned.

. §3965. All writs of certiorari shall be applied for within three

months after the iinal determination of the case in which the error is alleged to have been committed, and not after ; and shall be
made returnable to the next Superior Court after the issuing of
the same, unless said Superior Court shall sit within twenty days
after the issuing of said writ, in which case said writ shall be
made returnable to the next succeeding Court.

§3966. When the foregoing provisions have been complied
with and the writ of certiorwri shall have been issued, the Clerk
of the Superior Court shall place the same on the certioram'
docket, which writ, together with the petition, shall be delivered
to the party to whom it is directed by the party applying for the
mom/rd, his agent or attorney, or the Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff,
or any Constable at least. fifteen days previous to the court to
which the return is to be made.

§ 3967. The plaintifff in certiorari shall cause written notice to
be given to the opposite party in interest, his agent or attorney,
of the sanction of the writ of certiorcm}, and also the time and
place of hearing, at least ten days before the sitting of the‘ court
to which the same shall be returnable, and in default of such notice, (unless prevented by unavoidable cause) the certiora/ri shall
be dismissed.

§3968. The writ of certiora-r’i, when granted, shall operate as
a supersedeas of the judgment until the final hearing in the Snperior Court.

ARTICLE III.
or THE ANSWER, HEARING, JUDGMENT AND COSTS.

SECTION 1. Of the answer.
SECTION 2. Of the hearing.
SECTION 3. Of the judgment and costs.

 

SECTION I.
OF THE ANSWER.
SECTION. 'SECTION.
3969. Answer filed on first day. I 3971. Not written by interested party.

3970. Exceptions must be in writing. 

§3969. The answer to the writ of certiorari shall be filed on
the first day of the term to which it is returnable, unless further
time be given, and shall reply speciiically to the allegations in

the petition.

l

§8970. Exceptions to the answer shall be filed in writing, specifying the defects, and notice thereof given to the opposite party
before the case is called in its order for hearing; and if such exceptions be sustained, the answer shall he perfected, as directed
by the court. '

§ 3971. The answer shall not be written or dictated by either
of the parties, or their attorneys, or any other person interested
in the cause, and if made after the party making the same has
retired from oiiice, it shall be veriiied by affidavit.

 

SECTION II.
OF THE IIEARIN G.
Simon. ch'nox.
3972. Stands for trial—first term. 3974. Answer may be traversed.

397 3. Errors must be set forth.

‘5 397 2. Certioram' causes shall stand for trial at the return
term, and the Judge shall take up the docket and dispose of the
same in its order unless continued for good cause.

§397 3. No ground of error shall he insisted upon on the hearing, which is not distincly set forth in the petition.

§3974. The plaintifff in cert/450mm: may, at the first term, and
before the hearing, traverse the truth of the answer or return,
which traverse shall be in writing, specifying the portion of the
answer or return intended to be controverted, and verified by affidavit, and the issue formed upon such traverse shall be tried by
a special jury at the same term, unless good cause is shown for
a continuance, and their verdict shall be iinal as to the facts,
upon which the court shall pronounce the law.

 

SECTION III.
or THE JUDGMENT AND cosrs

Samoa. SECTION.
3975. May be dismissed or returned. l 3977. Of the judgment for plaintin‘.
3976. Damages may be awarded. I 3978. Of the judgment for defendant.

§3975. Upon the hearing of the writ of certin the Superior Court may order the same to be dismissed, or return the
same to the court from which it came, with instructions, and in
all cases when the error complained of is an error in law which

 

must finally govern the case, and the court shall be satisfied there
is no question of fact involved, which makes it necessary to send
the case back for a new hearing before the tribunal below, it shall
be the duty of the said Judge to make a final decision in said
case without sending it back to the tribunal below.
§3976. The presiding Judge before whom any writ of certio—
raw? may be heard, on motion of the opposite party, may order
that damages, not more than twenty per cent., be recovered by
the defendant against the plaintifff in certiorari and his security,
in case it shall be made to appear that the said certiorari was
frivolous, and applied for without good cause, or for the purpose
of delay only, and judgment may be entered up and execution
issued accordingly.
$397 7. If, on the hearing, the certim'ari shall be sustained,

4and a final decision thereon shall be made by the Superior Court,
the plaintifff may sign up judgment for the amount by him recovered in the court below, and the costs paid to obtain the corviora/ri, and also the costs in said Superior Court; but if the certiomri shall be returned to the court below for a new hearing,
the plaintifff shall sign up udgment for the costs in said Superior
Court only, leaving the costs paid to obtain the certiorcmi to abide
the final trial below.

. § 397 8. If the certiora/ri shall be dismissed, and a final decision
‘_ made in the cause by the Superior Court, the defendant in certim'wri may sign up judgment in said Superior Court against the
plaintifff and his security for the sum recovered by him, together
with the costs in said Superior Court, and if said case be sent
back to the court below, and there be a judgment in said case in
favor of said defendant in the court below, the security on the
certiomri bond shall then be included as in case of security on

appeal.

TITLE XXI.

‘PBOCEEDINGS AGAINST TRESPASSERS ON LAND AND TENANTS HOLD‘ ING OVER.

CHAPTER 1. Proceedings against intruders—tenants holding over.
Cams. 2. Forcible entry and detainer.

 

CHAPTER I.

EPROCEEDINGS AGAINST INTRUDERS ON LAN D AND TENANTS HOLDING
OVER. '

ARTICLE 1. Proceedings against intruders.
ARTICLE 2. Proceedings against tenants.

 

ARTICLE I.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST INTRUDERS.
Sam-10x. {8301103.
3979. Affidavit of land owner. 1 3981. How issue shall be tried.

£3980. Intruders may make a counter am'tl; 3982. A writ of possession shall issue.

§ 397 9. Intruders may be ejected from the possession of lands<
and tenements in the following manner to wit: When any per-g
son, either by himself, his agent or attorney in fact, shall takef
and subscribe an affidavit in writing before any odicer author-i
ized to administer an oath, setting forth that he does in good
faith claim the right of possession to any land or tenement, (describing the same) and that such land or tenement is in the hands
of another person, (naming the person) who does not in good
faith claim a right to such possession, and yet refuses to abandon
the same ; and when such aliidavit shall be placed in the hands
«of the Sheriff of the county where the land or tenement is situ.ated, it shall be the duty of such Sheriff, at the earliest practicanj
ble day, to exhibit such affidavit to the person described as being
'in possession of such land or tenement, and to turn such person
out of possession, unless the person so in possession shall at once
tender to the Sheriff a counter aiiidavit, stating that he does in
good faith claim a legal right to the possession of said land or

tenement. '

t §3980. The Sheriff shall be a competent officer to administer
the oath to the person in possession, in case he tenders the counter affidavit provided for in the preceding section.

§3981. If a counter aiiidavit be tendered, as hereinbefore prosvided for, the Sheriff shall not turn the party out of possession,
but the contending parties shall be remitted to their respective
rights, and the Sheriff shall return both affidavits, and deposit
them in the oliice of the Clerk of the Superior Court of the
county in which the land lies, upon which an issue shall be made
up and tried by a jury, according to the laws of this State.

! §3982. If the finding of the jury upon the trial of the issue

Iprovided for in the preceding section shall be for the plaintifff, or
movant, the Clerk shall issue upon the judgment a writ of ha.
bere facias possessz'onem including a  facias for the costs.

 

ARTICLE II.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST TEN ANTS.
Snorlox. Marion.

3984. Warrant against the tenant. 3987. Judgment and writ of possession.

3983. Amdavit of the landlord. i 3986. How issue shall be tried.
3985. Tenant may arrest proceedings. l

§3983. In all cases where a tenant shall hold possession of
|lands or tenements, over and beyond the term for which the same
were rented or leased to him, and in all cases where lands or tenements shall be held and occupied by any tenant at will or sufferance, whether under contract of rent or not, and the owner of
the lands or tenements shall desire the possession of the same,
such owner may, by himself, his agent or attorney in fact, or attorney at law, demand the possession of the property so rented,
leased, held, or occupied, and if the tenant refuses or omits to deliver possession when so demanded, the owner, his agent, or attorney at law, or attorney in fact, may go before the Judge of
the Superior Court, or any one of the Justices of the Inferior
Court, or any Justice of the Peace, and make oath of the facts.

$3984. When the affidavit provided for in the preceding section shall be made, the officer before whom it is made shall grant
and issue a warrant, or process, directed to the Sheriff of the
county where the land lies, or his deputy, commanding and requiring him to deliver to the owner, or his representative, full

I

and quiet possession of the lands or tenements mentioned in the
aiiidavit, removing the tenant, with his property found thereon,
away from the premises.

§3985. The tenant may arrest the proceedings and prevent'
the removal of himself and goods from the land, by declaring on?
oath that his lease or term of rent has not expired, and that her
is not holding possession of the premises over and beyond his
term; or that he does not hold the premises, either by lease, or
rent, or at will, or by sufferauce, or otherwise, from the person
who made the affidavit on which the warrant issued,-or from any
one under whom he claims the premises/ or from any one claiming
the premises under him. ‘

§3986. If the counter affidavit provided for in the preceding
section is made and delivered to the Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff,
the tenant shall not be removed ; but such Sheriff or deputy shall
return the proceedings to the next Superior Court of the county
where the land lies, and the fact in issue shall be there tried by
a special jury as in cases of appeal.

§3987. If the issue specified in the preceding section shall be
determined against the tenant, judgment shall go against him
for double the rent reserved or stipulated to be paid; or if he
be a tenant at will or sufferance, then for double what the rent
of the premises are shown to be worth, and the movant or plaintifff shall have a writ of possession, and be by the Sheriff placed
in full possession of the premises. ‘

 

CHAPTER II.
FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Sam-10x. Snonox.
3988. Fact to be tried by jury. 3992. Restitution to be made.
3989. If all do not attend. 3993. Service on non-residents.
3990. Possession and force submitted. 3994. No bar to indictment.
399]. Oath of_jury.

§3988, Any one or more Justice of the Peace, upon complaint.
made on oath of any entry into lands or tenements, or of any:
forcible detainer of the same, shall have power to draw a 
of twelve men from the jury box of the district in which the
lands and tenements so alleged to be forcibly entered or detained
are situated, and cause the Sheriff of the county, or the Constable of the district, to summon them to be and appear at the usual

place of holding court in the said district on a certain day, to be
appointed by the said Justice or Justices, for the purpose of trying the fact of such forcible entry or detainer. And the said
Justice or Justices shall also issue a summons to be directed to
the person or persons charged with such- forcible entry or detainer, and cause the same to be served on him by the Sheriff or
Constable at least five days before the time appointed for trial,
_requiring him to appear and defend the charge alleged against
him.
§3989. If all the jurors should not attend, or if there should
be a legal objection to any of them, then the J usticc or Justices
may cause the jury to be completed by tales jurors.
§3990. Upon the trial the only facts which the jury shall iniquire into, shall be the possession and the force, but they shall
have no power to inquire into the merits of the title on either
side.
§3991. The following oath shall be administered to the jurors,
viz: “ You shall well and truly inquire whether A. B. has made
any forcible entry into the lands or tenements of C. D., and him
ejected therefrom, or forcibly detained the lands or tenements of
the said C. D., and a true verdict give according to the facts as
they may appear to you in evidence. So help you God.”
§3992. If upon the trial of such case the jury shall find such
forcible entry or forcible detainer, or both, then the said Justice
or Justices shall give udgment accordingly, and cause the Sheriff to make restitution of possession of the premises to the party
aggrieved; Provided, that if the person charged with suclrforcible entry or detainer, or those under whom he claims, shall
have been in peaceable‘possession of the premises for the space
of three years or more as aforesaid, immediately preceding the
date of such warrant, then no restitution of possession shall be
made.
§3993. If the defendant charged with a forcible entry or detainer is not a resident of the county where the land or tenement is situated, service of the summons may nevertheless be
perfected on him or his tenant, by the Sheriff or Constable, as
though he resided in the county.
§3994. No proceedings under the provisions of this chapter
shall exempt any person guilty of a forcible entry or detainer
from indictment and punishment, under and by virtue of the
provisions in this Code.

TITLE XXII.
PROCEEDINGS FOR THE ABATEMENT or summons.

CHAPTER I.
PROCEEDINGS FOR THE ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
Sucrlox. SECTION.
3905. N uisance—how removed. l 3999. Application—by whom made.
3996. When in a town or city. 4000. Fees of Clerk—witness and jurors
3097. Notice to parties. 4001. Fees of the Sheriff.

3998. When it is a grist or saw mill. {

§3995. Any nuisance which tends to the immediate annoyance.
of the citizens in general, is manifestly injurious to the publicl
health and safety, or tends greatly to corrupt the manners and
morals of the people, may be abated and suppressed by the order
of any two or more Justices of the Peace of the county, founded
upon the opinion of twelve freeholders of the same county, who
shall be summoned, sworn and empannelled for that purpose;
which order shall be directed to and served by the Sheriff of the
county, or his Deputy.

§3996. If the nuisance complained of exists in a town or city,
under the government of a Mayor, Intendant, Alderman, War?

' dens, or a Common Council, or Commissioners, such nuisance, by

and with the advice of said Aldermen, Wardens, Council, or
Commissioners may be abated and removed by order of said
.Mayor, Intendant, or Commissioners, which order shall be directed to and executed by the Sheriff or the Marshal of said town
or city, or their Deputy.

§3997. Reasonable notice shall be given to the parties interested of the time and place of the meeting of such Justices and
freeholders, or of such Mayor, Intendant and Alderman, Wardens, Council, or Commissioners.

§ 3998. If the nuisance complained of is a grist or saw mill, or
other water machinery of valuable consideration, the same shall
not be destroyed or abated except “upon the affidavit of two or
more freeholders, before one .or more of the Justices of the Inferior Court of the county in which the nuisance complained of
may exist, testifying that the health of the neighborhood, according to their opinion and belief, is materially injured by such millcdam or other obstruction to a water 09mm by other mohinery

as may he complained of; whereupon it shall he the duty of such
Inferior Court, as soon as practicable, to cause a jury of twelve ‘
' men to be drawn from the jury box of the Inferior Court, and
summoned by the Sheriff or his Deputy for the trial of the cause,
who, together with the said court shall attend at the court-house
of said county to adjudge the case of nuisance complained of;
and all parties shall have a reasonable time allowed them to summon their witnesses and procure their attendance.
§3999. A public nuisance may be abated on the application
A of any citizen of the district, and a private nuisance on the application of the party injured.
§4000. When it may become necessary for the Justice of the
Inferior Court, or other tribunal authorized by this Code so to
do, to cause a jury to be summoned and empannelled to try a cause
of nuisance arising from water-machinery, mill-dam, or otherwise, the Clerk, witnesses and jurors shall be allowed such fees
in said causes as are allowed by law in the Inferior Courts of this
State.
§4001. The Sheriff, or other officer, for summoning such jury,
' shall receive the sum of three dollars, and when acting under the
order of said Inferior Court or other tribunal, shall remove any
nuisance, machinery or mill-dams, for which he shall be allowed
such fees as the court may deem reasonable and just.

TITLE XXIII.
or INQUES'I‘S AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.

 

CHAPTER I.
IN QUESTS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.
SECTION. 1 SECTION.
4002. J ury—how summoned. l 4007. Coroner‘s charge to the jury. &c.
4003. Defaulting jurors may be fined. 5 4008. Witness—how summoned, &c.
4004. Number of jury, &c.  4009. Witness may be recognized.
4005. J ury—how sworn. 1 4010. Inquests to be returned to Sup'r 0t

4006. Oath of the jury. I

§4002. Whenever a Coroner of any county in this State shall
have notice or be certified of the death of any person within the

" limits of the county of which he is Coroner, occurring under circumstances which make it his duty, under the laws of this State.

 

to hold an inquest, he shall make cut a precept, directed to any
Constable of the county where the dead body is found or lying,
requiring him to summon a jury of inquest composed of good
and lawful men of such county, to appear before such Coroner
at the time and place mentioned in the precept; which precept
may be in the form following—that is to say:

STATE or GEORGIA, 1
County. 3

To any lawful Constable of said county greeting:
“You are required immediately to summon eighteen good and

lawful men of said county to be and appear before me, the undersigned, Coroner of the county aforesaid, at in said
county, on the day of at o’clock of that same day,
then and there to inquire of, do and execute all such things as in
behalf of the State shall be given them in charge touching the
death of (or a person unknown, as the case may be,)
and be you then and there with this precept to certify what you
have done in the premises, and further to do whatsoever else may
in behalf of the State, be enjoined upon you.
“ Given under my hand and seal this the dav of

in the year of our Lord .”
Coroner. [L. s.]

which precept shall be forthwith executed by the Constable in.
whose hands it may be placed; and if the services of a Consth
ble cannot be conveniently obtained, the Coroner may summon‘
the jury himself.

§4003. Any juror failing to attend and serve on such Coro-;
ner’s inquest, after being duly summoned, may be fined by the1
Coroner in a sum not exceeding ten dollars, to be levied and collected by execution issued by the Coroner, unless such defaulting juror shall file in the Clerk’s oilice of the Inferior Court a
good and suiiicient excuse for the default, to be judged of by the
next Inferior Court held thereafter.

§4004. Every Coroner’s jury shall be composed of twelve:
jurors, seven of whom shall be competent to return a verdict. J

§4005. The following oath shall be administered to the fore-«
man of the jury by the Coroner, to wit: “ You,.as foreman of the:1
inquest, shall diligently inquire, and true presentment make, on
behalf of the State of Georgia, how and in what manner C. D.,
(or a person deceased, unknown, as the .case may be,) now he

lving dead, came to his death, and of such other matters relating
to the same as shall be lawfully required of you according to evidence,” and the remainder of the jury in convenient numbers at
a time shall be sworn by the Coroner as follows, to wit: “the
same oath which the foreman of this inquest has taken on his
part, you and each of you shall observe and keep upon your part.
So help you God.”

§4006. The Coroner shall charge the jurors to declare of the
death of the person upon whose body the inquest is held, whether ‘
such person died by murder, manslaughter, misadventure, misfortune, accident, or otherwise; and who, and when, and by what
means, and in what manner; and if by murder, who were principals and who were accessories; and if by manslaughter, who
were the perpetrators, and with what instrument the stroke or
wound was in either case given ; and so of all the prevailing circumstances which may come by presumption. And if by misadventure, misfortune, accident, or otherwise, whether by the act
of God or man ; and whether by hurt, fall, stroke, drowning, or
in any other way; also what person was present at the death;
also from whence the deceased came, and who he was, and who
are his parents, relations and neighbors; also who were the finders of the body; also whether he died in the same place the body
was found or elsewhere; and if elsewhere, who moved the body;
and also of all the circumstances relating to said death; and if
the deceased died in prison, the Coroner shall further charge thejury to inquire whether he died by hard usage there or not, and
if so by whom; and if the deceased put an end to his life, to inquire of the manner, means used, or instrument employed, and
of the circumstances concerning it; and the jury shall have full
and unrestricted powers to inquire and pass upon all the matters
and things thus given them in charge, and they shall have this
power even if the whole or a part of the charge be omitted.

§4007. The Coroner shall have full power to issue subptenas
to, or otherwise to compel the attendance of witnesses upon such
inquests, to declare their knowledge touching the matters of inquiry before the inquest, and the Coroner shall administer to such
witnesses the following oath to wit: “ The evidence that you
shall give this inquest on behalf of the State touching the death
of C. D., (or a person unknovm, as the case may be,) shall be the
truth. the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. So help you

God.”

:1

54008. If the inquest discloses facts which lead or may lead:
to the prosecution of any person for the homicide of the person:
upon whose body the inquest is held it shall be the duty of the(
Coroner to require all witnesses who testify to facts material to
the issues involved in such prosecution, to enter into a recognizance to appear and give evidence in the Superior Court of the
county in which the inquest is taken, against the defendant in such ,
prosecution; and shall also issue a warrant for the arrest of the
person‘suspected of the homicide returnable as other warrants.

§4009. The Coroner shall commit to writing the substance of l
the testimony delivered before the inquest, and shall return all;
the papers and proceedings touching the inquisition to the Superior Court of the county in which it is taken, held next after such
inquest.

§4010. If the verdict of the jury suggests that the death was
caused by poison, the Coroner shall have power to cause an accurate examination of the contents of the stomach and intesfines, by skillful physicians, and the reasonable expenses of such
examination shall be paid out of the County Treasury.

 

TITLE XXIV.
PROCEEDINGS IN COURTS or ORDINARY.

 

CHAPTER I.
PROCEEDINGS IN COURTS 0F ORDINARY.

ARTICLE 1. Sessions and adjournments of the Court of Ordinary.
ARTICLE 2. Practice in the Court of Ordinary.

 

ARTICLE I.
SESSIONS AND ADJ OURNMEN TS OF THE COURT OF ORDINARY.
SECTION. lSac'rioa. ‘
4011. When held. 4013. May be adjourned.

l

4012. Odice—where kept. g

§4011. The several Courts of Ordinary shall be held in each,
county in this State, by the Ordinary thereof, on the first Monday in each month except January, in which it shall be held on
the second Monday thereof. ‘ l

§4012. The said Ordinary shall keep his oiiice at the county

site, or such other place as may be authorized by law; which
office shall be open for the transaction of all business, at all times
except Sundays and holidays, but nowxll shall be admitted to
record, or letters testamentary of administration or guardianship,
or letters dismissory, nor shall any order for the sale of real estate or negroes be granted, except at a regular term of said court.

§4013. If, from any circumstance, the Ordinary should fail
to hold said court at the regular term, or at any adjourned term,
or the business of the court requires it, said Ordinary, or his dep—
uty clerk, may adjourn said court to such times as he may think
proper; Provided, such adjournment shall be entered on the
minutes of the court.

ARTICLE II.
OF THE PRACTICE IN THE COURT OF ORDINARY.
Sec-nos. ISEOTION.
4014. Applications and proceedings. .' 4018. Minutes of proceedings.
4015. The order—what it must contain. 4019. Docket of applications.
4016. Objections must be in writing. 4020. Docket of executors and adn‘rs.
4017. Proceedings must be filed. 4021. May attach for contempt.

§4014. Every application made to the Ordinary for the granting of any order, shall be by petition in writing, stating the
grounds of such application, and the order sought. If notice of
such application, other than by published citation, is necessary
under the law or in the judgment of the Ordinary, he shall cause
a copy of such application, together with a notice of the time of
hearing, to be served by the Sheriff, or some lawful officer, upon
the party or parties to be notified, at least ten days before the
hearing, and an entry of such service made on the original. In
extraordinary cases, where it is necessary to act before such notice
can be given, the Ordinary shall so direct the proceedings as to
make no final order until such notice has been given.

§ 4015. The order of the Ordinary shall always recite the names
of the persons so notified, and the compliance with the provisions
required.

§4016. All objections or caveats to an order sought shall also
he in writing, setting forth the grounds of such caveat. The petition and caveat shall be amendable at all times and in every
particular. ‘

§4017. The proceedings shall be always kept of file, and whenever the order is granted the proceedings shall be recorded in a
book to be kept for that purpose, for which the Ordinary shall re
ceive the same fees as are allowed Clerks of the Superior Court
for similar services.

$4018. The Ordinary shall keep a regular book of minutes of
the proceedings of his court, on which he shall enter all the applications refused as well as those granted. ‘

$4019. He shall keep a docket of all applications and causes
pending in his court, which shall be regularly continued from
term to term until the final disposition thereof.

§4020. He shall also keep a docket of all the executors, administrators, guardians and trustees who are liable to make returns in his court, with regular entries of their returns, and of
such as have failed to make returns as required by law and the
[order of the court.

§402L The Ordinary shall have power to enforce obedience
to all lawful orders of his court, by attachment for contempt, in
the same manner as a court of equity may do. ‘

 

TITLE XXV.

s‘PROCEEDINGS OF THE INFERIOR COURT SITTING FOR COUNTY PURPOSES.

 

CHAPTER I.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE INFERIOR COURT SITTING FOR COUNTY PURPOSES.

ARTICLE 1. Sessions and adjournments.
ARTICLE 2. Proceedings therein.

 

ARTICLE I.
SESSIONS AND ADJOURN MENTS.
.Swnox. lSnc'ron.
4022. When held, and by whom. 4026. Sheriff shall attend.
4023. May adjourn. 4026. The Clerk and his duty.
4.024. May hold special meetings. I 4027. Jurisdiction of said Court.

§4022. The Justices of the Inferior Court (or a majority of

them,) in the several counties in this State, shall meet at th
court-house of their respective counties on the first Tuesday in
every month, for the purpose of hearing such matters as may be
brought before them within their jurisdiction, and when so assemled and organized, they shall be known as the Inferior Court sitting for county purposes.
r §4023. Such court may adjourn to such other time as will best
promote the ends of justice. '
§4024. Any one of said Justices may call a special meeting of
said court for county purposes, at any time when'the ends of
justice may require such meeting, and in such case the Justice
making the call shall notify the other Justices of the time of
such meeting. a
$4025. The Sheriff of the county shall attend all meetings of
'said court, when sitting for county purposes, and be subject to
the order thereof, in like manner as he is to the Inferior Court.
§4026. The Clerk of the Inferior Court shall by virtue of his
office be clerk of said court when sitting for county purposes,
and subject to the order thereof.
'- §4027. Said court may hear and determine all matters over
which the law gives the Justices jurisdiction, and which is not
required to be heard and determined by the Inferior Court in

term time.

ARTICLE II.
PROCEEDINGS TIIEREIN.

Sscrrox. :SECTIOX.
4028. Application to said court. 4032. Jury fees when paid to Treasurer.
4029. Docket must be kept. : 4033. May punish contempts.
4030. Notice of proceedings. ‘ 4034. Amendments.
i

4031. Minutes of proceedings.

§4028. All applications for proceedings before the Inferior
Court sitting for county purposes shall be by petition in writing,
which shall plainly and distinctly set forth the grounds of the pro.

ceedings desired, and in like manner, all objections to said proceedings shall be in writing, which shall. fully set forth the grounds

of objection.

§4029. Said court shall cause a docket to be kept, in which
shall be entered all motions and applications, which shall be called and disposed/of in the order in which they stand upon the
docket, unless the ends of justice require a different course.

§4030. m individuals are to be affected by any order, or
judgment of said court, such individuals shall have reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing.

§4031. Said court shall cause to be kept a minute of its proceedings.

§4032. For each decree or verdict, whether in the Superior or
Inferior Court, the my fee shall be three dollars, and for each con-p
fession of judgment, one dollar, to be taxed in the bill of cost and
collected as provided in Part 3, Title 7, Chapter 1, Article 2 ; and
if the Justices of the Inferior Court, should assess and raise a tax for
the compensation ofgrand and petit urors, and fix their per diem
pay, as provided in section 3846, then the said tax and  fees,
when collected, shall be paid into the County Treasuries respectively. But in the event the Justices of the Inferior Court of any
county should fail to assess a tax and fix the per diem pay of the
grand and petit jurors as above specified, then the  fees in
such county shall be paid by plaintifffs, complainants, and appellants, directly to the Clerk, and by him to the juries under the
direction of the court.

§4033. The said court shall have power to punish for contempts,_'
under the same rules and regulations as are provided for the Infe-i
rior Courts.

§4034. Amendments shall be allowed as provided in other;
courts. I

 

qt TITLE XXVI.
( (‘W’ or PROCEEDINGS IN JUSTICES’ CCURTs.

 

CHAPTER 1.
OF PROCEEDINGS IN JUSTICES’ COURTS. '_

ARTICLE 1. Justices’ Court when and where held.
ARTICLE 2. Jurisdiction of Justices’ Court.

ARTICLE 3. Commencement of suits—service of summons.
ARTICLE 4. Pleas and defenses.

ARTICLE 5. Evidence—witnesses—einterrogatories.
ARTICLE 6. Trial and judgment.

ARTICLE 7. Appeals.

ARTICLE 8. Claims and trial thereof.

ARTICLE 9. Final judgment and execution.

ARTICLE 10. Justices’ Courts may rule Constables, «SIC.
ARTICLE 11. Levy and sale underfas. from a Justices’ Court.

 

ARTICLE I.
J USTICES’ COURT—WHEN AND WHERE HELD.
SECTION. SECTION.
4035. When held. 4036. Where held.

§4035. The Justices’ Courts of this State shall be held once a
month in each militia or company district, on a day to be fixed
and appointed by the Justices of the Peace of the district; and
whenever the business requires it, the term may continue for two

or more days.
§4036. The Justices’ Court shall be held at a place in each

militia district as nearly central as convenience will admit.

' ARTICLE II.
JURISDICTION or THE Jusrlcm’ COURT.

SECTION. , Sac-nos. .
4037. Shall not try actions for damages. 4041. Co-obligorsin different districts, «to,
4038. Notes for the same consideration. 4042. Justice being a party—how sued.
4039. Jurisdiction as to amount. 4043. When suit is in adjoining district.
4040. Residence necessary for jurisdiction! 4044. Maker and endorser—how‘sued.

§4037. The Justices’ Court shall try no action to recover damages.
§4038. The Justices’ Court shall have jurisdiction of all suits
brought on two or more promissory notes or other evidences of
debt not exceeding fifty dollars each, although given between the
same parties. for one and the same debt or consideration.

§4039. The Justices’ Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine all suits on promissory notes, accounts, due bills, and
other evidences of debt, where the principal sum sued for does
not exceed fifty dollars.

§4040. Ten days residence of a party within a Militia District
shall be suiiicient to give the Justices’ Court of such district jurisdiction of suits against him.

§4041. When a bond, note, bill, open account, or other evidence of debt shall be against several persons residing in different counties or districts, the plaintifff shall have his option to bring
suit on such demand in either of such counties or districts.

§4042. In all cases in which a Justice of the Peace is a party,
the suit may be brought in the Justices’ Court nearest to the res
idence of the defendant in the county, or in the district where
the defendant resides, at the option of the plaintifff.

§4043. In cases provided for in section 4042, the Justice of the
Peace in the adjoining district may issue summons, and proceed against the defendant in the same manner as if the defendant were a resident of such adjoining district.

54044. The maker and endorser of a promissory note or other
evidence of debt, not exceeding fifty dollars principal, may be
sued in the district of the maker’s residence, and the endorser
may be served with process in the same manner as that prescribed in the case of joint contractors.

ARTICLE III.

COMMENCEMENT OF SUITS, SERVICE, 32c.

Snorrox. ISscrrox.
4045. Summons—how issued and direct'di 4051. Proceedings umform.
4046. Must specify time and place. i 4052. Appearance term of cases,
4047. Must be served nine days before c’t. 4053. Bail in Justices’ Courts.
4048. Who may serve the summons. 4054. Parties may settle cases.
4049. What officer may serve co-obligors; 4055. Justices and Constables give receipt
4050. How summons is to be returned. 1

§4045. All suits in the Justices’ Courts of this State shall be
commenced by warrant or summons, which shall be issued and
signed by the Justice of the Peace of the district in which the
suit is brought, and shall be directed to the defendant, commanding him to appear at the court to which the summons is returnable, to answer the plaintifff ’s demand, which summons shall bear
date ten days before the return term of the court.

§4046, The time and place of holding the court must be spe. cihed in the summons.
§4047. The summons or warrant shall be served upon the de- fendant either by giving him a copy of the same in person, or by
leaving such copy at his usual and most notorious place of abode,
at least nine days before the sitting of the court .to which the
summons is returnable.

§4048. The summons may be served by the Constable of the
district in which the suit is commenced, or if there be no such
Constable, or he be aparty to or interested in the case, such summons may be served by any Constable of the county.

§4049. In cases Where suit is brought against joint obligors or
joint promissors, or other joint debtors, and in cases where the
Justice of the Peace is a party, and in cases where there is no
Justice in the district of the defendant’s residence—in all these
and like cases, the Constable of the district in which suit is brought
may serve all processes, on all the parties, and do all other legal
acts required of him in the progress of such suit, in any district
of the county.

§4050. The odicer serving the summons shall return the original, with his entry of service thereon, to the Justice of the Peace
before whose court the suit is pending, and the Justice shall file
and preserve the said original summons with the other papers appertaining to his odice.

§4051. The proceedings of the Justices’ Courts shall be uni- a
form throughout the State, unless otherwise provided for, ands
each Justice of the Peace shall keep a fair and legible book of

entry of all civil proceedings had before him for the recovery of
debts.

§4052. The term of the court to which the summons is made ;
returnable shall be deemed and considered the appearance term, ’
when the case shall be docketed on what shall be called the appearance docket, unless the demand sued on be for rent, in which
case it shall stand regularly for trial at the first, or appearance
term.

§4053. The Justices’ Court shall have power and authority to;
hold to bail for all debts within their urisdiction, and to enforce1
the liability of bail under the same rules and regulations as
those which prevail on that subject in the Superior Courts ; and
when a bail process is placed in the hands of a Constable against
one who is moving about from one district to another, such Constable may follow such itinerant defendant and serve the process
in any district in the county.

§4054. Any case in the Justices’ Court may be settled at any
time by the parties, upon payment of the costs which have accrued up to the time of such settlement.

§4055. Whenever any claim is given to a Justice of the Peace or
Constable for collection, such Justice or Constable shall give a receipt therefore, and when the money is collected such Justice or
Constable shall pay the same to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney.
unless there be conflicting claims for the‘ money, in which case

the question shall be decided at the first court, unless a continuance be had according to law.

ARTICLE IV.
PLEAS AND DEFENCES.

.Sacuox. Snmox.
4056. Defences same as in Superior Co‘ts. 4057. Non est factum and dilatory pleas.

§4056. At the appearance term the defendant may plead any
matter of defense to a suit in the Justices’ Court, which would
be allowable to suits in the Superior and Inferior Courts.

§4057. All dilatory pleas must be filed at the first term of the
court, unless the failure to do so is shown to be the result of unavoidable cause; and all dilatory pleas, and pleas of non est facmm, must be verified by the affidavit of the defendant at the
time of filing the same.

ARTICLE V.
EVIDENCE.

SECTION. SECTION.
4058. Best evidence must be produced. 4062. If plaintifff fails to answer.
4059. Party may prove account—when. 4083. The party subject to cross-ex’i‘t’n.
4060. Account against removing party. 4064. Witnesses compelled toattendance.
4061. Defendant pleading usury. 4065. Testimony taken by commission.

§4058. In all cases in the Justices’ Court of this State, the
best evidence the nature of the case will admit of shall be required.

§4059. Either party in a case in the Justices’ Court may prove
'his account, (not exceeding fifty dollars,) by his own oath; Provided, he will first make oath in writing that he has no other evidence in his power to procure, whereby to establish such account ; but the party, after making such affidavit, may nevertheless be sworn and examined like any, other witness.

§4060. Where suit is brought upon an open account, against
a party who has removed from the county in which the debt was
icontracted. or who resides out of the county in which the
'debt was contracted, such account must be proved by the written affidavit of the plaintifff; and when so proved shall be received in evidence as if it was proved in open court. Nevertheless, if the defendant will file his written affidavit denying the
justice and fairness of the whole or any part of such account, the
court shall not give judgment in favor of the plaintifff for that
part of the account so denied and controvcrted, unless supported
by other proof.

§40§L When a plea of usury is filed in the J ustices‘ Court,
the defendant may give the plaintifff ten days’ notice of the plea.
"accompanied with a copy of the same, and this notice shall entitle the defendant to the written affidavit of the plaintifff, as to
Whether or not the facts of the plea are true as to the usury,
and Whether or not the contract sued on was usurious, and such
affidavit may be read on the trial as evidence by either party.

§4062. If the plaintifff, after being notified of the plea, fails
to make the affidavit provided for in the preceding section, the

defendant shall be permitted to verify the facts of his plea by a
written aihdavit, which aiiidavit may be read in evidence on the
trial by either party.

§4063. Either party making an affidavit under the provisions:
of the two preceding sections shall, nevertheless, be sworn and
examined by the adverse party as any other witness; and in every case where one party offers himself as a witness, the other
party shall have the privilege of being heard also on his own motion.

§4064. Either one of the Justices of the Peace of the district
in which a suit is pending, may issue a subpoena, directedlto any
witness whose testimony may be desired by either party in any
case, which subpoena shall be served on the witness three days
before the day of trial.

§4065. Testimony may be taken, and- brought into court by
interrogatories and commission, in any case pending in the J ustices’ Court, under the same rules and regulations which prevail
on that subject in the Superior Court, except that the interrogatories shall be filed with the Justice of the Peace instead of the
Clerk, and the notice required shall-be five days instead of ten,
aaer.the expiration of which the Justice shall issue a commission,
which shall be executed as provided for in the Superior and Inferior Courts.

ARTICLE VI.
TRIAL AND JUDGMENT.

Stories. Eamon.
4066. The second term shall be trial term. 4068. Justices to give judgment
4067. Cases may be continued three terms

§4066. The second term shall be deemed and considered the:
trial term of all suits for the recovery of debts, (except for rent)
at which term the case shall be tried, unless the same be continued according to law. '

§4067. Cases in the Justices’ Courts may be continued three,
times, under the same rules which govern continuances in the:
Superior Courts. '

§4068. When cases are tried, the Justices of the Peace shall;
render judgment therein according to the law and the facts of g
each case, and such judgment shall be enforced by execution, unless prevented by appeal or other lawful means.

produced to you, to the best of your skill and knowledge, without
favor or affection to either of the parties; Prmnided, the case or
cases submitted shall not be withdrawn from your consideration.
So help you God.”

 

ARTICLE VIII.
CLAIMS IN THE JUSTICES’ COURT.

Snorxos. Samox.
4071. (31mm. affidavit and bond. 4073. Continuance of claim cases.
4072. Claim—where and when tried.

§407 1. When an execution issued from a J ustices’ Court shallc
be levied on property claimed by any person not a party to the:
execution, the claimant, his agent or attorney, shall make oath
that the property levied on is the right and property of the claimant, and shall also give bond and security in deuble the amount
of the execution, which bond the levying officer is empowered to
take, payable to the plaintifff or assignee of the execution, as the'
case may be, with condition to pay all costs and damages which
the said plaintifff or assignee may sustain, in case it shall‘ 

ARTICLE IX.
FINAL JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

Smox. ' ISECTION. '
4074. Dignity and lieu of judgments. I 4077. Stay of execution.
4075. Judgment against securities as such 4078. If defendant be insolvent.

4076. Judgment in cases of set-om

l $4074. All judgments that may be obtained in, and excutions
'iSsued ’ from the Justices’ Courts, shall bear equal dignity with
judgments obtained. in, and executions issued from the Superior
and Inferior Courts, and shall bind all the property of the defendant and his securities, if any, (except such as is exempt by law)
from the date of such judgment, until the same is fully satisfied.
- §407 5. Where suit is brought against joint obligors and joint
promissors, and any one or more of them shall make it satisfactorily appear to the count that he signed the contract sued on,
as security only, and was not interested in the consideration
thereof, the court shall enter up judgment and award execution
against such party as security; and when the execution shall be
satisfied by such security out of his own money or property, he
shall have the right to control such judgment and execution, for
the purpose of remunerating himself out of the property of the
principal in the, same manner that securities on stay of execution
may do; Provided, the judgment and execution shall also be
against such principal. $407 6. When the defendant pleads and establishes a set-off
,greater than the demand of the plaintifff, the court shall render
judgment in favor of the defendant against the plaintifff, for the
excess or balance over and above the demands of the plaintifff,
unless such balance exceeds the sum of fifty dollars principal,
in which event the set-off of the defendant shall be, by the judgment of the court, credited with the amount of the demand esé
tablished and proven by the plaintifff, and the plaintifff in such
case shall pay the costs.
§407 7 . When final judgment is rendered in the Justices’
Court, either without an appeal or after a trial on the appeal, the
party against whom the judgment is rendered, at any time within four days after the adjournment of the court, shall have the
right, by paying all the costs which have accrued, and giving
good and sufiicient security for the principal and interest involved in the case, to stay the execution for sixty days if the

judgment is for more than thirty dollars principal; and if the
judgment be for thirty dollars principal, or under that sum, the
execution shall be stayed for forty days, and when the time for
which the execution‘ is so stayed has expired, execution shall issue against the party and his security on stay for the amount of
the judgment... In case any person, after being summoned on
any cmnplaint for debt in a Justiccs‘ Court shall, before the sit—
ting of such ctmrt, remove out of the district, such court may,
nevertheless, give judgment against. him; and if any person
shall, after judgment of such court, remove out of the district 01'
county, or holds property in a different district or county, before
satisfaction is made, such Justice may. in either case, issue execution against such person; which execution being backed by any
Justice of the county where such person resides, or where his property may be found, may be levied by any Constable of said county,
and the after l)l‘t‘)(_‘CCdlll,€:S shall be the same as provided in other
cases of levy and sale, by virtue of executions from Justices” Court.

§li'l75. “Then an execution issued from a J ustices’ Court shall
be returned by the proper oiiicer, with an entry thereon thati
there is no property of the defendant out of which satisfaction of
the execution can be made, the plaintifff in execution shall be
bound and liable for the costs due thereon ; and if the plaintifff,
upon being notified of the return and the costs being,r demanded
of him, shall fail. or refuse to‘ pay such cost, execution therefore
may issue against such plaintifff.

ARTICLE X.

JUSTICES’ COURTS MAY RULE THEIR CONSTABLES, PUNISH DEFAULTIN G J URORS AND WITNESSES, AND PUNISH CONTEMPTS.

Sxo'rxox. SECTION.
4079. Liability of Constable for misc’d’t. 4081. Witnesses failing toattend.
4080. Constable may be ruled. , 4082. Jurors may be fined for default.

§407 9. If any Constable shall fail to execute and return any}
process placed in his hands, or shall fail to account with and pay:
over to the person entitled thereto any money which he has re-i
ceived on any note, execution, or other paper placed in his hands
as such Constable, within ten days after the money is received,
the person injured by such failure may apply to the J ustice of the
Peace of the district in which the defaulting Constable is acting
as such, or in which he did act as such if he has gone out of office, (and if there be no Justice in such district the party injured
may apply to the Justice of any adjacent district,) and obtain a
warrant against such Constable; and upon satisfactory proofs of
the facts the Justice to whom the application is made may, either
in term time or vacation, award judgment and execution against
the Constable for the full amount of .the money collected and.
withheld, or which might have been collected, and the Justice
may also fine the Constable for such default in a sum not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of said money so collected, orwhich might have been collected.
§4080. Constables may be ruled by their respective J ustices"
Courts and compelled to give an account of their actings and doings, or to pay over money received or collected by them in their
official capacity, under the same rules and regulations as are pursued in the Superior Court in relation to officers of said SuperiorCourt. .
§4081. Any witness failing to attend the Justices’ Court, af-~
gter being duly served with a subpoena, shall be subject to a finenot exceeding ten dollars, which may be collected by execution,
unless good excuse be shown for such failure at or before the next
court day after the default ; and such witness shall also be liable
to a suit for damages at the instance of the party injured by his
default, in any court having cognizance of the same. .
§4082. Any juror drawn and summoned, who shall neglect to
appear and serve as such, shall be fined by the Justice of the
Peace in a sum not exceeding three dollars, unless such juror shall
show sufficient excuse for his default at the next court thereafter, which fine may be collected by execution, or imprisonment.
until it is paid, unless discharged by law.

 

ARTICLE XI.
LEVY AND‘SALE UNDER Fl. FA. FROM JUSTICES’ COURT.

Snorxox. Snorrox.
4083. Levy and advertisement. 4085. Bank and other stock.
4084. Land and negroes—when subject. 4086. Compensation of Constables.

§4083. All Constables shall advertise all intended sales, to be

" made by them under execution, at three or more of the most public places in their respective districts, (unless otherwise provided)
at least fifteen days before any sale shall'be made, and shall give

TITLE XXVII.
EQUITY PLEADING AND PRACTICE.

CHAPTER 1. Of the bill and subpoena and service thereof.
CHAPTER 2. Of demurrers, pleas and answers. ,

CHAPTER 3. Of interlocutory decrees, receivers, masters, &c.
CHAPTER 4. Of the trial and its incidents.

CHAPTER 5. Of the decree and its enforcement.
CHAPTER 6. Of other proceedings in- chancery.

 

CHAPTER I. ’
OF THE. BILL AND SUBP(ENA AND SERVICE THEREOF.
Summon. SECTION.
4087. Proceedings by bilL 4094. Discovery 5: perpetuating testimony '
4088. Discovery—interrogatories. 4095. Venue.
4089. Amendments. 4096. Manner and time of wing.
4090. Who may sue. 4097. Subpoena and service thereof.
4091. Persons laboring under disability. 4098. Sanction of the J udge—when.
4092. Parties defendant. 4099. Duty of the Clerk.
4093. Bills—diferent kinds of. 4100. Dismissal of bill.

§4087. The, ordinary proceeding in chancery shall be by bill,
which shall be addressed to the Superior Court, or the Judge
presiding therein, and shall plainly set forth the ground of complaint, and the persons against whom a subpoena is prayed.
, §4088. If discovery issonght of one or more of the defendants
it shall be specially prayed, and interogatories regularly numbered, shall be embodied in the bill, as to every point on which discovery is sought, and the names of the defendants from whom
answers under oath or affirmation are required.

§4089. N o mere formality or omission of a formality shall vitiate or delay a proceeding in equity, but the same liberality as
to arriendirmnt shall be allowed therein as in a proceeding at law.

§4090. Any person who cannot sue at” law, may complain in
equity, and every person who is remediless elsewhere, may claim
the protection and assistance of a court of equity to enforce any
right recognized by the law.

§4091. Persons not mi juris may appear, either by guardian
or next friend, or guardian ad litem appointed by the court. In
the latter two cases the court may require such bond as shall protect the interest of the person under disability.

§4092. Generally, all persons interested in the litigation should
be parties to a bill, but legatees, distributees and wards suing
executors, administrators, and guardians need not join others interestedin such estate as parties, complainant or defendant, unless
some special adverse claim is set up as against such co-distributees or legatees.

$4093. A bill is either original 'or in the nature of original.
Every bill is original which commences a proceeding for relief or
discovery, or both. Bills for the review, or avoidance, or injunction, or execution of a former decree are in the nature of original
bills. A 'cross bill need not be filed in this State. The defendant in every case may set up any matter in his answer, which under the English practice should be the subject of a cross bill, and
may require therein any discovery from the complaint he may
desire. No supplemental bill need be filed in this State. All
such matter shall be allowed by way of amendment. If new parties are necessary, by reason of any matter thus set up ‘in the answer or by way .of amendment, the court shall give such direction to the cause, to secure a bearing to such parties, as if a cross
bill or supplemental bill had been filed. Bills of revivor are
abolished. ’

§4094. A bill for discovery merely, or to perpetuate testimony, shall not be sustained unless some reason is shown why the
proceeding at law is inadequate.

§4095. All bills shall be filed in the county of the residence of
one of the defendants, against whom a substantial relief is prayed,
except in cases of injunctions to stay pending proceedings, when
the bill may be filed in the county where the proceedings are pending, provided no relief is prayed as to matters not included in
such litigation.

§4096. 0 bill shall require the sanction of the Judge before
its filing unless it prays some extraordinary remedy. Each bill
shall be filed in the Clerk’s office, atleast thirty days before the
term to which it is returnable, and shall be served on the defendant at least twenty-five days before such term.

§4097. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to annex to each bill a
subpoena directed to the defendant, and requiring his appearance
at the term of the court to which the bill is returnable; and also,
to make out and hand to the Sheriff, or his Deputy, a copy of the
bill and subpoena to be served on the defendant in like manner
as petitions at common law. Service on defendants residing in

CHAPTER II.
or DEMURRERS, PLEAS AND ANSWERS.

\

SECTION.
4106. Amendments—effect of, &c.
4107. How defendant must answer.
4108. Veriiication of non-residents.
4109. No replication or order for trial.
4110. Notice of filing, &c.

SECTION.
4101. Mode of defense, &c.

4102. Demurrer—grounds of.

4103. Pleas—different kinds of.
4104. Answer and exceptions thereto.
4105. Verification—when necessary.

 

 

‘ §4101. A defendant may either demur, plead or answer to a
cause in equity, or may file two or all of these defenses at once,
without waiving the benefit of either, or may file two or more
pleas to the same action in like manner as at law. In all cases,
demurrer, pleas and answer shall be disposed of in the order
named; and all demurrers and pleas shall be filed and determined at the first term, unless continued by the court or by consent of parties.

§4102. A demurrer denies the right to the discovery or relief,
in whole or in part, admitting the allegations of the bill to be
true, and is founded either upon a want of jurisdiction in the
court, or of equitable right in the complainant, or upon a non:
joinder or mis—joinder of parties, or causes of action, or the absence of liability by the defendant to the complainant.

§4103. A pure plea sets up some additional fact or facts,
which, taken with the facts stated in the bill, show that the complainant is not entitled to relief. An impure or anomalous -plea
is filed when the complainant, anticipating the defendant’s plea,
alleges facts to impeach or annul its effect. In such case the
plea must negative the impeaching allegations, and must be accompanied by an answer discovering all the facts within defen7
dant’s power as to such allegations. A pure plea need not be
verified. The answer accompanying an anomalous plea must be
under oath or afiirmation.

§4104. The answer of defendant, (unless further time be
given,) shall be filed within thirty days after the first term of the
court. If the answer is not full, (where discovery is sought,) exceptions may be filed at once, and on ten days’ notice shall be argued and decided at chambers. If sustained, the Judge shall
require additional answer on such terms as he may direct. Exceptions must be filed before the hour for jury business, on the
second day of the second term.

§4105. If discovery is specially disclaimed, the defendant need
not verify his answer ; but the defendant shall always have the
' privilege of putting in an answer under oath, for the purpose of
using the same as evidence on any motion to dissolve an injunction, or to set aside any extraordinary process or remedy granted.
tA sworn answer is subject to amendment at any time, by leave
of the court, as other pleadings; but an admission made in such
answer shall always be evidence, when offered by the other
party.
, $4106. An amendment a bill which materially changes the
'case, opens the bill, as amended, to demurrer or plea. The defendant shall be allowed reasonable time for answering such an
-amendment. An immaterial amendment does not so open the
bill, and need not be answered at all, or shall be answered incumtar.
§4107. When discovery is sought the defendant must answer
to the best of his knowledge, information and belief. If the defendant knows nothing, but answers only to his belief from the
information of others, such an answer does not require the testimony of two witnesses to overcome it. ,
$4108. When a bill, or answer, or other proceeding in equity
:is required to be verified by a complainant or defendant, who resides beyond the limits of this State, an aiiidavit, made before
any commissioner of this State, or any commissioner, or master,
or chancellor of a court of equity, or Judge of any court of the
State where made, authorized to administer an oath, shall be a
suiiicient verification §4109. N o replication shall be filed, and no order setting
rdown the case for trial; but the parties may commence to take
testimony as soon as the bill is filed. 3‘
$4110. If a demurrer or plea is filed, notice of such filing must
.be given to the complainant or his solicitor, a reasonable time
before the end of the first term.

 

CHAPTER III.

OF IN TERLOCUTORY DEGREES, AND THE APPOINTMENT OF REECEIVERS, MASTERS, AND AUDITORS.

Scones. - ISnc'ron. .
4111. Interlocutory decrees and orders. l 4113. Report of Master—exceptions.
4112. Master or Auditor. 1 4114. Fees of Master or Auditor.

 

$4111. At any stage in the progress of an equity cause, if any
portion of the same is ready for, or requires a decree, the court
may hear and determine such matters and pass such interlocutory decree or order as may advance the cause and expedite a final
hearing. If no issue of fact is involved, the verdict of a jury is
unnecessary.

§4112. Every Chancery Court in this State may appoint a
Master, to whom it may refer such matters of account as are
complicated in their nature; or, by consent of parties, may appoint an Auditor to investigate and report upon similar matters
in dispute. Such Master or Auditor may subpoena witnesses,
administer oaths, and hear testimony on any disputed fact, always giving due notice of his sittings to the parties or their solicitors.

$4113. The report of the Master or Auditor, when returned
to court, shall be subject to exceptions for such time as the court
may allow; and the exceptions so filed shall be the only issues
of fact submitted to a jury, so far as the matters referred are
concerned. When submitted, the  shall return a verdict on
each exception

54114. The fees of the Master or Auditor shall be determined
by the court, unless agreed on by the parties.

CHAPTER IV.

OF THE TRIAL AND ITS INGIDENTS.

Sooner. Sac-non.
4116. Trial term—when. 4119. Decree for specinc performance.

4116. J ury—when necessary. . 4120. Special verdicts and costs.
4117. Rules of evidence and practice. 4121. New trials—appeals.

4118. Bill taken pro Waco.

54115. The trial term of all equity causes shall be the seconds
term aher service has been perfected on all the parties.

$4116. When any question of fact is involved, the same shalla
be decided by a special jury, selected as in cases of appeals. If 1
there be no such question, or the master’s report, u'nexcepted to,
covers all such questions, the Judge may render a decree without
the verdict of a jury. '

§4117. The rules of evidence shall be the same as in trials at:
law, and the rules of practice as to continuance, and in the con-i

, § 4131. A court of equity is always open, and hence the Judge,

' in vacation and at chambers, may receive and act upon such petitions, always transmitting the entire proceedings to the Clerk,
to be entered on the minutes or other records of the court.

§4132. In all cases of applications for the removal of trustees,

"' or the sale of trust property, or the investment of trust funds, or
similar cases where any person is interested besides the applicant,
notice to such persons must be shown or its absence accounted
for before the court shall proceed in the cause.

. §4133. If minors are interested, and they have no guardians,
guardians ad litem must be appointed and notified before the
cause proceeds.

TITLE XXVIII.
ARBITRATION AND AWARD.

CHAPTER 1. Special provisions.
CHAPTER 2. General provisions.

 

CHAPTER I.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS.

ARTICLE 1. Of the submission.

ARTICLE 2. Of the organization and hearing.

ARTICLE 3. Of continuances and adjournments.

ARTICLE 4. Of the evidence and witnesses.

ARTICLE 5. Of the powers of the arbitrators.

ARTICLE 6. Of the rendition and effects of the award.
ARTICLE 7. How attacked.

ARTICLE 8. Of costs and compensation of the arbitrators.

 

ARTICLE I.
OF THE SUBMISSION.
SECTION. Samar.
4N4. Controversies submitted. 4135. Submission must be signed.

I

y §4134. All persons having matters of controversy, whether in
'suit or otherwise, may submit the same to arbitration, and any

personal representative of any decedent, or guardian of any in-.
fant, idiot, lunatic or any trustee, may submit to arbitration any
matter of controversy touching the estate or property of such
decedent, idiot, lunatic, infant, Or of such trust estate in the following manner.

§4135. All such submissions to arbitration shall be in writing“
and shall contain a_ clear and accurate statement of the matters
in controversy submitted, and any other matter that may be pertinent to said submission, and also the names of the arbitrators
chosen by the parties. Said submission shall be signed by the
parties or their agents, and when so signed, shall be delivered to
one of the arbitrators chosen by the parties, and when this is done
said submission shall be irrevocable, except by consent of all the
parties.

ARTICLE H.
OF THE ORGANIZATION AN D HEARING.
Smox . Sscnox.
4136. Must be three arbitrators. 4139. List of witnesses to be furnished.
4137. How chosen. 4140. If any fail to attend.
4138. Shall appoint time and place. 4141. Arbitrators must be sworn.

§ 4136. Every arbitration under this provision of this .Code,
shall be composed of three arbitrators, one of whom shall be
chosen by each of the parties, and one by the arbitrators chosen
by the parties.

54137. When the submission is delivered to the arbitrators
chosen by the parties, or either, such arbitrators shall then choose
another arbitrator, whose name shall be inserted in the submission.

§4138. The arbitrators so chosen shall then appoint their time.
and place of meeting, which shall be as soon as practicable, eon-i
sistent with a proper preparation of the case, and the parties
shall have ten days’ notice of such time and place of meeting.

§4139. At the time the submission is made, or so soon there;
after as may be done, the'parties shall furnish the abitrators so}
chosen, or one of them, with a list of the witnesses, whose testimony they desire to be before said arbitrators, and any party
neglecting to do this for ten days after said submission is made,
shall not be entitled to delay or continuance for the absence of
his testimony or witnesses.

§4140. If any one of of the arbitrators selected by the parties should fail to attend at the time and place of meeting, or be
disqualified, the party whose arbitrator is absent or disqualiiied,
shall then choose another in his place, and if the arbitrator chosen by the arbitrators is absent or disqualiiie‘d, the arbitrators
chosen by the parties shall choose another in his place, and the
arbitrators so chosen shall have all the powens of the arbitrators
first chosen.

.§ 4141. Before the arbitrators enter upon a hearing of said case,
to make up their award, they shall be sworn impartially to
determine the matters submitted to them, according to law and
the justice and equity of the case, without faVOr or affection to
either party; which oath they may administer to each other.

 

ARTICLE III.
or CONTINUANCES AND ADJOURNLIENTS.

Secrtox. Sncmox.
4142. Parties not ready—postponement. A4143. Adjournments.

§4142. When, upon the meeting of the arbitrators, if either
party shall not be ready for trial, the arbitrators may postpone
the hearing of the case to a future day, which day shall be as
early as may be consistent with the ends of justice, considering all
the circumstances of the case; but there shall not be more than
two adjournments of the case, except for Providential cause.
, § 4143. After the arbitrators shall have commenced their investigations they may adjoan from day to day, or for a longer time
if the ends of justice require it, until their investigatidns are completed, and they have made up their award.

 

ARTICLE IV.
or THE EVIDENCE AND WITNESSES.

Szcnox. ' iSEc'ron.
4144. Testimony taken by commission. 1 4146. Examination of Witnesses, do;
4145. Competency of witness. ‘

§4144. Testimony may be taken by commission under the
_same circumstances, in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules and regulations as are now or may be prescribed by

iflaw for the taking of testimony by commission in the Superior

Courts, saving only that the original interrogatories shall be {iled
with one of the arbitrators and the commission issue by one of
the arbitrators, and the testimony, when taken, shall be directed,
to the arbitrator who issued the commission.

$4146. All free white persons who have arrived at suiiicientl
:age to understand the obligations of an oath, and are not idiots'
-or lunatics, including also the parties to said submission, shallbe
competent as witnesses in all cases before said arbitrators, saving
only that the wife shall not be a witness for or against the husband, nor the husband for or against the wife, except in cases
where the Same is allowed by law.

§4146. The examination of witnesses and the admission of testimony shall be governed by the rules of the Superior Courts,
except as herein provided.

ARTICLE V.
01" THE POWERS OF THE ARBITRATGRS.
Scenes. 'Sso'nox.
4147. Powers of arbitrators. ‘ 4149. Administer oaths to witnesses, &c.

4148. May compel production of books, the; 4150. If all do not attend, two may act.

§4147. The arbitrators shall be clothed with all the powers of
the Superior Courts to compel the attendance of witnesses before
them, and also to compel them to testify, and any one of said at?
bitrators shall have power to issue subpoenas requiring the atten«dance of witnesses at the time and place of their meeting, which
eubpmnas shall be served in the manner pointed out by law for
the service of subpoenas in cases pending in the Superior Courts,
and witnesses so, attending shall be entitled to the same compensation as witnesses attending Superior Courts, and it may be collected in, the same manner.

§4148. Said arbitrators shall be clothed with all the powers of
the Superior Courts to compel parties to produce books and all
other papers. which they may deem necessary and proper for the
investigation of the matters submitted to them, givingto the party, his agent or attorney, from whom the production is required,
such notice as is required in the Superior Courts for the production of papers. ‘

§4149. Said arbitrators shall have power to administer oaths
to witnesses and all other oaths that may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this chapter-into full effect.

§4150. If the arbitrators so chosen shall fail to agree upon an
award, then any two of them may make an award, which shall .

, have the same force and effect as if made by all three of them.

 

ARTICLE VI.
OF THE RENDITION AND EFFECT OF THE AWARD.

SECTION 4151. Rendition and ea‘ect of award.

§4151. After the arbitrators shall have made up their award,
3they shall furnish each of the parties with a copy thereof, and return the original award to the next Superior Court of the county
where the award was made, and said award shall be entered on .
the minutes of said court, and shall have all the force and effect
of a judgment or decree of said court and may be enforced in the
same manner at any time after the adjournment 9f said court, and
shall be final and conclusive between the parties as to all matters
submitted to the arbitrators, unless objection should be pleaded
to the same as provided in the next section of this Code.

 

ARTICLE VII.
HOW ATTACKED.

annoy. Section.
4162. Award—how attacked and pro’d’s. 4153. Verdict of jury and proceedings.

I 54152. When said award shall have been returned to said
court and entered upon its minutes, as provided in the previous
section of this Code, either of the parties may suggest, on oath,
at the term to which said award is returned, that the award was
the result of accident, or mistake, or the fraud of some one or
all of the arbitrators or parties, or is otherwise illegal. Where- ‘
upon the court shall cause an issue to be made up, which issue

shall be tried by a special jury under the same rules and regulations as are prescribed for the trial of appeals; which ~trial shall

be had at the same term of the court at which the suggestion is
made, unless good cause be shown for a continuance, when
the same may be continued for one term only, except for Providential causes.

$4153. If upon the trial of such issue the jury shall return a
verdict iiuding against said award on the specifications made in
the issue submitted, the court shall forthwith pass an order vaeating and setting aside said award; but if the jury shall not so
find, said award shall remain in full force as provided in the previous section of this Code, and shall be dual and conclusive
unless the judgment of the Superior Court on the trial of such
issue be reversed by the Supreme Court.

 

ARTICLE VIII.
or COSTS AND COMPENSATION or ARBITRATORS.

Salmon. 'Swnox. _
4154. Clerk’s fees for his services. 4156. Compensation of Arbitrators, to.
4155. The costs may be taxed, &c. !

§4154. For each award entered upon the minutes of the Snperior Court, the Clerk shall be entitled. to the same pay now
allowed by lawfor the entering of judgment in other cases, to
be paid by the parties as directed in said award.

§4155. The arbitrators shall return in their award the costs of
the case, which they may tax against either party, or a part
against one and a part against the other, according as they may
think just and right.

§4156. The arbitrators shall have such compensation for their
-aervices as may be agreed upon by themselves and the parties,
which shall be paid equally by the parties, or included in the
judgment or decree of the court to which said award is returned
as part of the costs in said case, and if the parties fail to agree
on the amount so to be paid, the court to which said award is returned shall direct an issue (as to the amount of the fee) to be
formed between the parties and the arbitrators, which shall be
tried by a special jury, whose verdict shall be iinal and concluSive, unless reversed, and the subsequent proceedings thereon
shall be the same as in cases of appeal.

 

CHAPTER II.’
GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
Sam-row. - -- 'Sso'nox.
4157. Any number of arbitrators. 4158. Submissions when suit is pending.

I
§4157. Nothing in the preceding chapter contained shall preaf
vent any of the parties named in the £rst section thereof, from;

submitting any and all matters of controversy to the arbitra-§

ment and award of any number of arbitrators, as provided by
this Code, whether the same be in suit or otherwise; and when
so submitted, the proceedings shall be governed by the previsions of this Code and the comnion law. ‘ .

§4158. In all matters submitted to reference by parties in a
“suit, under a rule of court or other agreement in writing, signed
by the parties, (except as hereinbefore provided) judgment shall
be entered up by the party in whose favor the award is given,
and execution shall issue for the sums awarded to be paid as
they respectively become due, and to be levied on the property
of the party against whom the judgment shall have been entered
up, and such other proceedings shall be had thereon by the:
court as in cases of judgments entered upon verdicts of juries.

 

TITLE XXIX.
PRACTICE IN CONNECTION WITH surname oomrr.

CHAPTER 1. Of bills of exceptions and writs of error.
CHAPTER 2.‘ Of proceedings in Supreme Court.

 

CHAPTER I.
OF BILLS 0F EXCEPTIONS AN D WRITS OF ERROR.
Sumox. SECTION. .
4169. When a writ of error lies. 4167, Notice—how served.
4160. Bill of exceptions. 416g. Er park proceedings.
4161. Tendering and certiiyiag. 4169. Criminal cases—proceedings in.
4162. Exceptions pendent: (its. 4170. Bill of exceptions—how filed.
4163. J udge removing, dead or absent. 4171. Operates as a supersedeas—when.
4164. Death of either party. 4172. Clerks and Sheriffs—failingin duty4165- J “(189 reaming ‘0 091' tiff « 4173. Filing papers in the Supreme court.

4166. Failing to certify.

’ $4159. No cause shall be carried to the Supreme Court upon
any bill of exceptions, so long as the same is pending in the
court below, unless the decision or judgment complained of, if '
it had been rendered as claimed by the plaintifff in error, would
have been a final disposition of the cause. But at any stage of‘
the cause, either party may file his exceptions to any decision,
sentence or decree of the Superior Court; and if the same is
certified and. allowed, it shall .be entered of record in the cam;
and should the case at its dual termination be carried by writ of

error to the Supreme Court by either party, error may be as—
signed upon such bills of exception, and a reversal and new trial
may be allowed thereon when it is manifest that such erroneous
decision of the court has or may have affected the final result of
the case. $4160. Either party in any civil cause, and the defendant in}
any criminal proceeding in the Superior Courts of this State,
may except to any sentence, judgment, decision or decree of such
court, or of the Judge thereof, in any matter heard at chambers. Such bill of exceptions shall specify plainly the
complained of, and the alleged error, and shall be signed by the

party, or his attorney or solicitor.
' $4161. Such bill of exceptions shall be tendered to the Judge:
- who presided in the cause within thirty days from the adjourn-1
ment of the court, or the date of the decision at chambers,
and if the same is true and contains, in connection with the
the transcript of the record, all the facts necessary to the understanding and adjudication of the alleged error, the said Judge
shall sign and certify the same, substantially as follows: “ I dOw
certify that the foregoing bill of exceptions is true, and containsI
all the evidence material to a clear understanding of the errors
complained of, and the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county
of is hereby required and ordered to make out aeomplete
copy of the record of said case, and certify the same as such, and
cause the same to be transmitted to the term of the
district of the Supreme Court, that the errors alleged to have
been committed may be considered and corrected.” This certificate shall be the writ of error.

54162. Exceptions tendered before the dual hearing or jndg-l
ment for the mere purpose of being made a part of the recordd
shall be certified to be true by the Judge, and ordered to be
placed on the record. Such exceptions mint be tendered during
the term.

. $4163. If the Judge trying the cause resigns, or otherwise;
ceases to hold his oiicc as Judge, when the bill of exceptions is'
tendered, he may nevertheless sign and certify as above. And if ,
he should die before certifying the same, or otherwise becomes incapable of acting, then the party may verify his bill of exceptibns
by his own oath, or that of his attorney, together with the oath of
at least one disinterested member of the bar who was present at
the trial. And such verifications shall operate in the same man-‘1

 

ner as the certificate of the Judge. If the Judge is absent from
home, or by other casualty fails to certify the bill of exceptions
within the time specified (and without fault of the party tendering)
he may still sign and certify as soon as possible, which shall be
held and deemed valid. ’

§4164. If either party dies between the hearing and the tendaring of the bill of exceptions, the Judge shall nevertheless sign
and certify the same, and parties shall be made in the Supreme
Court: as in other cases; the notices required in such cases to be
given and received, may be given and received by the attorneys
of the respective parties though such parties be dead.

§4165. If the Judge shall determine that the bill of exceptions
is not true, or does not contain all the necessary facts, he shall return the same’ within ten days to the party, or his attorney, with
his objections to the same in writing. If these objections are
met and removed, the Judge may then certify, specifying in his
certificate the cause of the delay. If the Judge sees pr0per, he
may order noticevto the opposite party of the fact and time of
tendering the exceptions, and may hear evidence as to the truth
thereof. '

§4166. If from any cause the bill of exceptions is not certified
by the Judge without fault of the party tendering, such party or
his attorney shall apply at the next term of the Supreme Court,
wherever it may be, and on petition obtain from said court a
mandamus m’ 823 directed to such Judge. Such petition must
set out substantially the bill of exceptions tendered, and shall
be verified by- the attorney as to the truth of the bill as tendered, and by the party or his attorney as to the other facts stated thererein. , The mdamus m: .973 shall be served by some
Sheriif of this State, and his return made to the Clerk of the Snpreme Court. It shall be returnable at some term of the Snpreme Court, at which term the court shall consider and deter'mine the validity of the reasons given by the Judge for his failure or refusal, but in no case shall a traverse as to the truth of
such return of the Judge be allowed. If the reasons be insufficient, or the Judge fails or refuses to make any return to the man- '
dam/us mi .973, the Supreme Court shall issue a mandamus absolute
commanding the Judge to sign and certify the bill of exceptions.
If he still refuses so to do, the cause shall be heard by the Su- «
preme Court on the exceptions as verified in the petition for r
mandamus.

§4167. Within ten days after the bill of exceptions is signed
and certified, the party plaintifff therein, shall serve a copy thereof upon the oposite party or his attorney, and if there be several
parties with diii'erent attorneys, upon each, with a return of such
service (or acknowledgement of service) endorsed upon or annexed
to such bill of exceptions, and they alone are parties defendant in
the Supreme Court who are thus served.

§4168. If the proceeding in the court below be ea: pmte, and
there is no opposite party, notice to no one is necessary. In ca.ses of interpleader or otherwise, where the real contestant is not
the opposite party on the record, notice shall be given to such
real contestant, in addition to the copy served as above.

§4169. In a criminal case, the cepy bill of exceptions shall be
served upon the Attorney or Solicitor General, as the case may‘
be, or upon a Solicitor General pro tem. who tried the cause, if he
is still acting under the appointment.

§4170. Within fifteen days from the date of the certificate of
the Judge, the bill of exceptions shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk of the court where the case was tried ;' and in ten days from
the date of such filing, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to make
out a copy of such bill, together with a complete transcript of the
record in such cause. Such transcript, together with the originan
bill of exceptions, the Clerk shall transmit, together with a cer—
tificate that the same is the true, original bill of exceptions, and a
true and complete transcript of the record in such case, to the
next term of the Supreme Court, as required in the J udge’s certificate, directing the same to the Clerk of the said court. The
copy bill of' exceptions shall be retained inthe oiiice of the Clerk
of the Superior Court.

§4171. The bill of exceptions thus filed shall operate as a 815-:
pcrserlms upon the plaintifff in error complying with the follow:
ing terms: In a civil cause, the party shall, on or before filing the
bill of exceptions, pay all costs, and by himself, his agent or at-I
torney in fact or at law, give bond with good security, payablel
to the opposite party, and conditioned for the payment of the
eventual condemnation money, and all subsequent costs, which
bond shall be attested and approved by the said Clerk. Or he1
may file an affidavit with the said Clerk, stating that he is unable from his poverty to pay the costs and give the security for
the eventual condemnation money, and that his counsel has ad. vised him that. he has good cause for a writ of error, which affidavit shall operate as if the costs were paid and bond given. In
a criminal cause, where the offense is bailable, the defendant shall
enter into a recognizance before the said Clerk, with security to
be approved by him, in a sum to be fixed by the presiding J edge,
conditioned for the personal appearance of such defendant, to
abide the final order, judgment or sentence of said court. If the
offense is not bailable, the Judge shall order a superde at an
time of filing the bill of exceptions. If the party is unable from
his poverty to give the recognizance, the Judge shall order a eupersedeae upon the filing of an affidavit as provided in civil cases,
but the defendant shall not be set at liberty without the recego
nizance.
§417 2. If any Sheriff, or Clerk, or other oEcer shall fail to
discharge any duty required of him in connection with the fore.
going provisions, upon petition the Supreme Court, or the J edge
of the Superior Court may compel the performance of such duty
by mcmdamue ,- and no suitor shall lose any right by reason of
the failure of such officers to discharge their duties, where hehas
been guilty of no fault himself, and has exercised ordinary diligence to secure their discharge of duty.
$417 3. The papers transmitted to the Supreme Court may be
tfiled at any time before the court has completed the docket for
that circuit at that term. If they are not filed by that time, the
judgment of the court below shall stand ailirmed (unless the
plaintifff is protected under some one of the foregoing provisions)
and shall be so entered in that court upon the production of the
certificate of one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, under the
seal of the court, as to the fact of the failure to file the papal“
in the time required.

CHAPTER II.
OF PROCEEDINGS IN THE SUPREME COURT. ,
8mm. Samson.
4174. Order of doeketiug cases. 4181. Remitter.
4175. Time of docketing cases. 4182. Damages.
4176. Decisions at the first term. 4183. Execution may issue—when.
4177. ‘Making parties. 4184. Amendments.
4178. If the record is incomplete. 4186. Transcript to be filed.
4179. Judges dissenting. 4186. Attorneys liable for costs.

4180. Decision and future direction. 4187. Taxing cost.

54174. All causes shall be docketed by circuits in the order in
which they are received by the Clerk, and the Clerk shall, at least
one month prior to the session of each term, publish in two public gazettes at the place where the court shall sit, the order in
which the respective circuits of that district will be docketed for
a hearing.

§ 417 5. The docket shall be open for the reception of causes so
long as the cases from the circuit whence they came are being
heard, but when the docket for that circuit is closed, no cause
shall be received except by special order of the court on proper

cause shown.
§ 417 6. The Supreme Court shall proceed to hear and determ~

inc at the first term (unless prevented by Providential cause) all
cases properly docketsd, and with the records made up ready for
a healing. And no continuance lshall he allowed except for
Providential cause. . '

$4177. Should any party die after the bill of exceptions has
beensiyied andcertified, the death beingsuggested of rmdin
theSnpmeCourt,partiesshallbem&de bnyaabedntM
manner heretofore prescribed by the rule ofsaid court.

§417 8. If the transcript of the record is incomplete in a matahlpdntthefactbeingsuggestedontheoathof thepartyor
his counsel, the cause shall be postponed and eminent!
requiring the Clerk to complete the  If, however, the
other partywill admittbe existence and cii'ectoftbe omitted
record, such admission in writing, shall constitute a part Of the
record, and the cause shall proceed to a hearing. If the Clerk rerefusmtosendup any of thepapem, thepr inerrorerhis
counsel, may apply to any one of the Judges of the Supreme
Conrtinvacation andobtaina mandamus m' 823 against said Clerk,
and returnable to the term of the court where the case should be
tried; and for a continued failure or refusal, the Supreme Court
may attach the Clerk for contempt.

$4179. If. the court is not unanimous in in decisions, the
Judges shall deliver the opinions seriatc'm, but they shall not be
required to write them out. The opinion of the majority shall
decide each question. If but two Judges preside, and they are
divided in opinion, the cause shall be re-argned before the remaining Judge, with a full bench, ere the term closes, if possible. If
not possible, the judgment of the court below shall stand ailirmed, upon the certificate of the fact of the division of the court,

unless the Judge is absent from Providential cause, in which
event the cause shall stand continued.

§4l80. The decision in each cause shall be entered on the
minutes, and it shall be within the power of the Supreme Court

’ to award such order and direction to the cause in the court below
as may be consistent with the law and justice of the case.

§4181. The decision of the court, and any direction awarded
in the case, shall be certified by the Clerk to the court below,
under the seal of the Supreme Court, and shall be respected, and
in good faith carried into full effect by the Superior Court. The
remitter shall contain. nothing more, except the costs paid in the
Supreme Court.
§ 4182. Ten per cent. damages may be awarded by the Supreme
Court upon any judgment for a sum certain, which has been carried to said court, and there affirmed ;‘ Provided, in their opinion, the cause was' taken up for delay only, and it shall be so entered in the remitter.
§4183. If the judgment below is ailirmed, upon filing the retmitter with the Clerk of the Superior Court in vacation, the supersedeas shall cease, and execution shall issue at once for the
amount of the original judgment.
§4184. The bill of exceptions may be amended in the Supreme
Court, so as to conform to the record in the cause.
§4185. The transcript of the record shall not be recorded by
the Clerk of the Supreme Court, but shall be carefully labelled
and filed, so as to be easily found when needed.
§4186. The attorney representing the plaintifff’s cause shall,
in all cases, be responsible for the costs in the Supreme Court.
If there is a judgment of reversal, the plaintifff in error shall be
l_entitled to a judgment for the amount of such costs against the
defendant in error, so soon as the remitter is returned to the court
below. .

. §4187. At the close of each judgment on the minutes, the
Clerk shall tax his costs, subject to revision by the Judges of the
Supreme Court, and the costs so taxed shall be entered as a part
of the remitter.


