EVIDENCE.‘

ART. I. INTERROGATORIES, AND TESTDIONY DE BE.:\“E ESSE.
" II. RECORDS, AND DOCI.'ME.\"I‘.'LRY AND \VR1'l"I‘EN EVIDENCE.
“ III. VVITNESSES AND ORAL EVIDENCE.

ART. I. INTERROGATORIES, AN D TESTIMONY DE BEN E E S SE.‘|‘

Sec. 1. Witness compelled to answer. Sec. 9. Refusal to answer.
“ 2. Fees. “ 10. Persons removing, &c.
“ 3. Non-residents. “ ll. Compulsion of VVitness.
“ 4. Seamen, infirm persons, &c. " 12. Failure to attend.
“ 5. Convicts, witnesses. “ l3. Contempt.
“ 6. Re-enacting clause. “ 14. Blank commissions.
" 7. Exam. dc bane ease. “ 15. Blank commissions.
“ 8. Females. “ 16. Discoveries at law.

An Actfor po2'nl2'ng out the method of compcIlz'n.g persons residing
in this State, to give evidence in causes pending in anothcni-—
Approved Dec. 16, 1794. Vol. I. 212.

W/zcreas. much inconvenience has arisen to individuals from no
compulsory process having been adopted in the ditferent States, to
oblige the citizens or residents thereof, to give evidence in suits
pending in other States ; for remedy whereof, as far as it might be
occasioned by persons residing within the State of Georgia,

1. See. I. Be it enacted, That if the testimony of any persons re‘siding within the said State shall be required in any suit pending in
any Court of record in either of the United States, and he, she, or
they shall refuse to appear before commissioners appointed to take his
or her examination, under a commission properly issued a11d authenticated agreeably to the laws and rules of the Courts of the
State from which it shall be sent, or appearing, shall refuse to answer to such legal interrogatories as shall be annexed to the said
commission, and exhibited to him, her or them, it shall be lawful for
either of the said commissioners, or the party upon whose application the said commission was issued, to apply to any Judge of the

Superior Courts ot this State, or Justice of the Interior Court of the
Coiiiity within which such person whose testimony is required may
reside, and upon producing before him such commission, and his
being satisfied of its regularity, and on affidavit being made of such
refiisal, he shall issue a subpoena in the usual form, directed to such
person or persons as aforesaid, requiring him, her, or them, to be and
appear before the said commissioners at a certain time and place,
to answer to such legal interrogatories as may be annexed to the
said commission, and then exhibited to him: Provided. that he shall
not be required to attend such examination and give answer to the
siid interrogatories, within less than two days after the service of the
said subpoena, neither shall he be obliged to attend for such examinazion out of the County where he resides, nor more than ten miles
from the place of his residence; and upon due service of the said
s:i!ipa=zia upon such person or persons, the same shall be returned to
the commissioners on or before the time appointed for the examination and the service of such subpuzna, proven by the return of the
proper officer; and on the refusal or neglect of such person or per-:
smsto comply with its mandate, indorsed on or annexed to the said
sulipozna, and returned to the Superior or Inferior Court, as the case
may require, of the County in which such person or persons reside,
he. she, or they shall be subject for such neglect or refusal to all they
pcizis and penalties to which such person or persons would have been
subject for a similar default in any cases pending in the Courts of this‘
State. '

'2. Sec. II. The person or persons whose evidence shall be requir-,‘
rd as aforesaid, shall, if they or any of them shall require the same,‘
be entitled to the same fees or pay as persons summoned to give evideuce in the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. I. 292. [For title and Act in full,
see AppcnLlix.]

3. Sec. XXIII. Where any witness resides out of the State or,
«f-at of any County in which his testimony may be required in any;
ransc, it shall be lawful for either party, on giving at least ten days’,
notice to the adverse party, or his, her, or their attorney, accompanied‘
with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be exhibited, to obtain
a commission from the Clerk of the Court in which the same may be
required, directed to certain commissioners"“ to examine all and every
:uch witness or witnesses, on such interrogatories as the parties may
exhibit ; and such examination shall be read at the trial on motion of
either party.1"

An Act the more gfec-t~ually to insure the testimony r_r/‘witnesses, going
beyond seas, or removing without t/zejurisdiction Q/' the State, and

agcdmzd iv;/irm pcrsom.—Approved Dec. 8, 1806. Vol. II. 323.
[Repealed by provisions of Act of 1838, sec. 10.]

An Act to alter and amend the XXII Irl section. of the Judiciary law
of this State, passed February 16, 1799.—This Act approved Dec.
16, 1811. Vol. III. 380.

Whereas, the Judiciary law of this State does not fully embrace
the mode necessary to procure testimony by interrogatories, as justice
in its fullest extent requires ;

4. Bcit enacttrl, §'c. That after the passing of this Act, it shall
and may be lawful where any witness resides out of the State or
‘out of the County, or where any witness resides within the same,
and being a seaman, patroon of a boat, stage driver, mail carrier, aged
for infirm person,“ and in all other cases where the evidence of any
»witness cannot be duly obtained in which his or her testimony may
be required in any case, it shall be lawful for either party on giving
‘at least ten days’ notice to the adverse party, or his, her or their attorney, accompanied with a copy of the interrogatories intended to
be exhibited, to obtain a commission from the Clerk of the Court in
which the same may be required, directed to certain commissioners,
to examine all and every such witness or witnesses, on such interrogatories as the parties may exhibit, and such examination shall be
read on the trial, on the motion of either party, any rule, order or
law to the contrary notwithstanding. '

An Act to carry into eject -the Penal Code of this State, and the Penitentiary system _/bmtded ttu.-1eon.—Approved Dec. 19, 1816. Vol.
III. 659.1’

5. Sec. XXIst of the rules. Where any convict confined in the

penitentiary is a witness in any civil cause, depending in any Court]
of this State, and his testimony required, the same shall be taken by;
commission, and read at the trial of such civil cause; and in no civ-.
3 case shall such convict be removedfrom the penitentiary to give
personal attendance at Court. But before such commission issues,
the pany, or his, or her attorney, requiring such commission, shall
file an affidavit, with the record of the proceedings, that the convict
to be examined is a material witness in the cause.

An Act to regulate the mode of taking testimony by commission and de

(me esse within this State ; and to alter and amend the several law:
relating there-to.-—-Approved Dec. 20, 1823. Vol. IV. 212.

6. The Act entitled “ An Act the more effectually to insure the
testimony of witnesses going beyond seas, or removing without the
jurisdiction of the State, and aged and infirm persons,” passed the 8th
day of December, 1806, be, and the same is hereby re—enacted, and
declared to be operative and effectual in all cases pending, or which
may be brought in the several Courts of this State.’

7. Sec. II. In all cases which are or shall be pending in any of
the Courts of this State, when any one person is the only witness to
any material fact in any case, it shall and may be lawful to examine
such witness de bene me, on complying with the provisions of the
aforesaid Act, in so far as the same are applicable to such case; and that
the examination so taken shall be read in evidence in such cause, on
the terms and under the restrictions specified in the said Act.1'

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act are
hereby repealed.

Ax Act to point out and regulate the manner of (airing the Testimony of
Females, in certain ca:e:.—Approved Dec. 19, 1829. Vol. IV. 226.

8. From and after the passage of this Act, when the testimony of
any female shall or may be required in any of the Superior or Inferior
Courts which may be held in this State, criminal cases only excepted,
it shall and may be lawful for either party, on giving at least ten days’
notice to the adverse party, or his, her, or their attorney, accompanied
with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be exhibited, to obtain
acommission from the Clerk of the Court in which the same may be
required, directed to certain commissioners, to examine all and every
Inch witness or witnesses on such interrogatories as the parties may
exhibit ; and such examination shall be read at the trial on motion of
either party.

9. Sec. II. If any person as above recited shall refuse to appear
before commissioners appointed to take her or their examination, or
appearing, shall refuse to answer such legal interrogatories as shall be

annexed to said commission, and exhibited to her or them, it shall be
lawful for either of said commissioners, or the party upon whose application the said commission was issued, to proceed in conformity to the
laws new in force pointing out the mode of proceeding in cases of failure or refusal to attend, or answer interrogatories in other eases."" '

Sec. III. All laws or parts of laws militating against the above
recited Act are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act to regulate the mode of taking Testimony
by coImm'ssz'on and de bone esse urit/tin this State, and to alter

and amend the several laws relating tlzereto, approved 201/1 December, 1823.—Assented to Dec. ‘.28, 1838. Pam. 245.

10. See. I. Be it enacted, That the Act (for which this is
amendatory) more effectually to insure the testimony of witnesses
going beyond sea, and aged and infirm persons, passed on the 8th
'day of April, 1806, which had been repealed, and again re-enacted,
and declared to be operative and etlective in all cases pending, or
-which may be brought in the several Courts of this State, by Act of
20th Deeemb er, 1823, be amended  as to read as follows, to wit:
that in case either plaintiii‘ or defendant may deem any witness or
witnesses material in any cause orcauses pending in any of the Courts
of Law and Equity, of this State, and who are going beyond seas,
removing without the County, or beyond the jurisdiction of the State,
or whose ofiicial or other business would require his absence from
the County, at the term of trial of said cause, or from age or other
bodily infirmity may be unable to attend (3ourt,1' it shall and may be
lawful to examine any such witness or witnesses under commission,
or [on] serving and filing interrogatories in the manner prescribed by
law, in case where witnesses reside out of the County: Pl'0Uidé':[,
that in case the person or persons whose testimony shall have been
taken, return or be able to attend, that then and in that case, such
written testimony shall not be received or read.
Sec. II. All laws, or parts, or amendments of laws militating
against this amendatory Act, he, and the same is hereby repealed.

An Act to extend the operation of the Act passed on the 16th day of

December, 1794, entitled an Art for po2'ntin_rr out the method qf
c0m.pellin.g persons resid2'ng in this State to 3'2’-ire evidence in causes
pemling in an,oth,er.——Assented to Dec. '21, 1839. Pam. 145.

11. See. I. Be it enrlcfcd, That all the provisions of the said recited Act be, and the same are hereby extended to the cases of the
'persons who may refuse to appear before the commissioners, and give
evidence under commissions issued from any of the Counties of this

State.I

in Act to point out and regulate the manner of taking testimony by

mmmissioners in certain cases.—Assented to Dec. 2'2, 1840. Pam.
Ill. -'

12. See. I. Be it enacted, That when any witness shall fail, re-f
fuse or neglect to appear before commissioners for the purpose of an- t
swering interrogatories appended to a commission issuing from any
(‘cart in this State, in which Court the case may be pending, for
which said interrogatories are intended to be taken, upon the application of the commissioners therein named, it shall and may be lawful for the party at whose instance said interrogatories are to be taken,
his. her or their attorney, or for either of the commissioners, to make
zltiidavit of such failure, refusal or neglect; and upon application a
made to any Judge of the Superior or Justice of the Inferior Court§
of any Circuit or County in which said witness may be when applied
to. to be examined, accompanied with such affidavit [for such Judge] to
issue an order to all and singular the Sheriffs, Constables and Coroners
of this State, commanding them to bring said witness before him ; and
upon such Judge or Justice being satisfied of the legality of such inter-.
rogatories, it shall be the duty of such Judge or Justice to order the of-',
ricer having said witness in custody to deliver said witness to the}
Jailer ofsuch County and [to] be by the said J ailer confined in the com-:
mon jail of said County, until he or she shall answer the interrogatories propounded to him or her, to said commission attached.
13. Sec. [1 Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as}
to prevent the Court from which said commission issued, from pun-A
ishing said witness for contempt of said Court; and that all laws

and parts of laws militating against this Act, be and the same are
hereby repealed.

An Act to make valid all commi.s~sions which have he7'etry"orc been or may
Iiereq/"(er be zssue.-1 m blmzkjor I/£8 purpose ofta/cmg testimony in any
case arising or u‘/rich may have (I./‘ism 222. /he Com‘/s o/‘Law and Equity of this b'laIe.——Appr0Ved Feb. 13, 1850. Pam. 115.

14. SEC. I. Be it emzc/ed, That from and after the passage of
this Act, all commissions which have heretofore been, or may l1ere—
after be issued in blank for the purpose of taking testimony in any
case pending, or arising in the Courts of Law and Equity in this
State, shall be valid and as effectual as if the names of the commissioners had been inserted by the officer issuing the same.

SEC. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to regulate the raising of tes/imony by intcrrogrztorie.9 for the
Courts of I/.-zs Smze. and to amend an Act enlztled an, Act to authorize
parties In compel c!a.s-e'over‘u's at Common. Law, approrccl December

17th, l847.—Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 276.

15. See. I. Be it enacted, That In all cases in the Superior and

Inferior Courts of this State, where it may become necessary to take
testimony by interrogatories as heretofore practised, commissions
may issue in blank, in so_far as relates to the names of the commissioners; but the names of witnesses intended to be examined
shall be distinctly specified in the notice served upon the adverse
party preparatory to issuing the commission.‘

16. Sec. II. When any person, either plaintifff or defendant,
shall desire to file his, her or their writteninterrogatories, for the
purpose of compelling the discovery contemplated by the Act entitled
an Act to authorize parties to compel discoveries at Common Law,
approved December 17th, 1847, he, she or they shall be authorized
to do so either in term time or vacation of the said Superior or Inferior Court, and obtain an order from a Judge of said Court, requiring
the adverse party to answer the same in writing, according to the
provisions of the Act of which this is amendatory.1'

ART. II. RECORDS, DOCUMENTARY AND WRI'I'FEN EVIDENCE:

Sec. 17. Document law. See. 24. Official attestation.
" 18. Acts of Sheriffs and Deputies. " 25 Copy of bond.
" 19. Deputy Clerk. “ 26. Ollicial attestation.
“ 20. Deputy Secretary of State. “ 27. Notarial Acts.
" 21. Proof of Indorsements. " 28. Oral evidence as t) deed.
“ 22. Books lc alized. “ 29. \Vhat is a seal.
“ 23. Laws Resolutions. “ 30. Physicians’, are. books.

An Art supplementary to the J mliriary .-lct.—Approved Nov. 26, 1802.
Vol. II. 56.

17. The Judges of the Superior Courts shall not, in any case
whatever, withhold any grant, deed, or other document from the
Jury under which any party in a cause may claim title. except such

-evidence of title as may be barred by the Act of limitation.‘

An Act to legalize and make valid certain acts of Slwrzfs and Clerks,
and to regulate the admission of evidence in tlteiscvcrat Courts of Law
and Eqmzy in this Slate, so fin‘ as relates to certain pa.pers.—Approved Dec. 15, 1810. Vol. II. 643.

Whereas, considerable doubts have arisen in the Courts of this
State relative to the official returns of Sheriffs and deputy Sheriffs,
whose bonds and oaths have not been entered on the minutes of the
Court before which such officers may have qualified,

And whereas, doubts have also arisen in said Courts as to the propriety of admitting deeds to go as evidence before a Jury, which a
deputy Clerk may have certified as to the enrolment; for remedy
whereof,

18. See. I. Be it enacted, doc. That the official returns of allj
Sheriffs and deputy Sheriffs shall be, and the same are hereby legal-.p
ized and made valid to all intents and purposes, as if made by a

Sheriff or deputy, who had been qualified according to law.‘

19. Sec. II.~ All deeds, mortgages, conveyances, and other writ-y
ings enrolled by any deputy Clerk in the proper Court, and certified»

by him as such, the same shall be received and admitted as evidence

in any Court of this State, in like manner as if the same had been
recorded by the chief Clerk.‘

20. Sec. III. All grants, copy-grants, testimonials, or any other
document or paper whatsoever, heretofore issued out of the Secreta-7

ry of State’s othee, purporting to be signed by a deputy Secretary
of State, shall be held and taken as legal, provided, the said paper
shall be ascertained to be genuine; Provided, nothing contained in
this Act shall be so construed as to admit any grant obtained on the
south side of the Oeonee and Appalachce rivers, previous to the late
land lotteries as evidence in any Court within this State.

21. Sec. IV. In all cases brought by any indorsee or indorsees,
assignee or assignees, on any bill, bond, or note, before any Court of
Law and Equity in this State, the assignment or indorsement, without regard to the form thereof, shall be sufficient evidence of the
transfer thereof, and the said bond, bill, or note shall be admitted as
evidence, without the necessity of proving the handwriting of the
asstgnor or assignors, indorser or indorsers; any law, usage, or custurn to the contrary thereof notwithstanding.

An Act to legalize and make valid two manuscript books of the old records Q/'tI':c Iixecutivc Dcpartmcnt.—ApproVed December 16, 1811.
Vol. III. 289.

22.‘ From and after the passingof. this Act, the two manuscript
books, A and B, in the Executive Department, containing the records
of said Department from the year 1777, to the year 1784 inclusive,

that have been transcribed in pursuance of a Resolution of the tenth
day of December last past be, and the same are hereby legalized and
made valid, and shall henceforth become a part of the records of said

Department. [Certain copies of old plats added to the Surveyor
General’s office, see “ Land.“]

An Act to regulate the admission. of evicleizre in certain cases in the
several Courts of Law and l:'qm'ty in this State, and to p;'orz'de
for the recording of con1‘eyan(‘es of personal proper!-y.—Approved
Dec. 21, 1819. Vol. III. 300.

23. See. I. All laws and resolutions, as published by authority,
shall be held, deemed, and considered public laws and resolutions :
and the several Courts of Law and Equity of this State, shall take
notice thereof as such, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

24. SEC. II. The certificate or attestation of any public officer,
either of the State, or of any County thereof, shall give suthcient
validity or authenticity to any copy or transcript of any record, document, or paper of file, in the respective offices under their control or
management, or to which they may be lawfully attached, to admit
the same as evidence, before any Court of Law or Equity in this
State; Provided nevertheless, that nothing herein contained shall be
so construed as to prevent any of the Judges of the Superior or Inferior Courts to require the original, or that it be accounted for.‘
Sec. III. [See “Conveyances, &c.” sec. 23.]

An Act declaring certified copies of q[7ieia.l bonds testinwny in certain
cases.—-Approved Dec. 20, 1823. Vol. IV. 213.

25. In all causes now pending, or which may hereafter be instituted, in any of the Courts of Law or Equity in this State against the
principal and securities or either of them, on any official bond given
by any executor, zulministrator, or guardian, or any other public officer of this State, it shall be lawful for the said Courts to receive as
evidence of the fact of the due execution of such bond, a certified
copy thereof, made by the proper officer, Where such bond is of file
or recorded, which copy shall be sullicient testimony in the cause,
unless the same shall be denied on oath.1'

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act, to regulate the admission of
evidence, in certain cases, in the several Courts of Law and Equity in this State, and to provide for the recording of conveyances
of personal property/.—Approved Dec. 21, 1830. Pam. 121.

26. The certificate of any public officer, under his hand and seal
of office, if one is attached thereto, either of this State, or any County thereof, in relation to any matter or thing, pertaining to their respective offices, or which by presumption of law, properly pertains
thereunto, shall be admitted as evidence, before any Court of Law or
Equity in this State ;‘ Provided, nevertheless, That nothing in this
Act contained, shall be so construed, as to prevent any Court to require the production of the original to which said certificate may appertain, or that it may be accounted for.’

All laws, and parts of laws, militating against this Act are hereby
repealed.

An Act amendatory of an Act, assented to the 21st Dec. l820,‘|' autlzorizing the cert-z_')‘i¢:-ates and acts of Notaries Public, to be received in evidence in certain cases.—This Act approved Dec. 26, 1836.

Pam. 170.

27. See. I. From and after the passage of this Act, the certificates, protests, and other acts of Notaries Public,I under the hand»
and seal of such Notary, in relation’ to the non-acceptance of any

bill of exchange, draft, or other order, made for the payment of moncy, or other thing, and also in relation to the non-payment of any
bill of exchange, draft, order, bond or note, for the payment of money,
or other thing, shall be deemed and received by the several Courts
of Law and Equity in this State, as sufficient prima facie or presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated,’ without any other, or
further proof; Provided always, that nothing in this Act, shall prevent either party, plaintifff or defendant, from having the benefit of
the testimony of such Notary, should they deem it necessary: and
provided also, that the party relying on such notarial act, shall, at
the first term, file in the Court, either a copy, or the original of such
protest or other acts. And provided further, that whenever a plaintifff, relying upon such notarial act, shall fail to file the same, as is
herein provided, the Court may grant such further time as it shall
deem to be reasonable, in which it must be filed in order to be operative as evidence.
Sec. II. [Repeals all conflicting Acts.]

An Act to regulate the admission of Oral Evidence, in reference to

Written Instruments, in certain cases.—Assented to Dec. 25,
1837. Pam. 110.

W’/ccrcas, it is now the practice, in some of the Circuits of this
State, to admit oral evidence to prove that deeds and bills of sales
absolute upon their face, were intended as mortgages, or securities
for the payment of money, or other thing, only without any charge
of fraud in obtaining them. And whereas, such practice may lead
to serious injuries to the rights of the good people of this State, over
their property, and may present strong inducements to the commission of frauds and perjuries ; for remedy whereof,

28. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
passing of this Act, oral evidence shall not be received in any Courts
in this State, to show that a deed or bill of sale absolute upon its
face, made after the passing of this Act, was intended as a mortgage
or security for the payment of money or any other thing, unless there
is a charge of fraud in obtaining the same, in which case oral evidence, going to show the fraud only, may be received; any law,
usage, custom, or practice to the contrary notwithstanding.’

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to declare the force and (feet of certain Contracts. and Instruments in W"r2't2'ng, therein speci/ied.—Assented to Dec. 29,
1838. Pam. 72.

Whereas, a diversity of decisions has prevailed in the several
Courts of this State in regard to the force and effect of certain written contracts and instruments in writing hereafter mentioned, for
remedy whereof, and for the purpose of securing uniformity of decisions hereafter to be made in the several Courts of Law and Equity
in this State respecting such instruments:

29. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
"passing of this Act, whenever any written contract or other instru,ment in writing shall be produced in evidence, or for any other legal
L-purpose whatever, before any Court of Law or Equity in this State,
during the progress of any bill or suit whatever, pending in any of
said Courts, and such written contracts or instrument in writing shall
have a scroll or other representation of a seal annexed thereto instead
of a seal composed of a wafer or wax, or other tenacious substance ;
and also whenever it shall be shown by words expressed in the body
or conclusion of said written contract or other instrument in writing,
that it was the intention of the party or parties subscribing the same,
to become bound by, or to execute a writing obligatory or sealed instrument, though no scroll or seal has been annexed to said written
contract or other instrument, shall be held, taken and construed by

1
l

laid Courts, both at Law and in Equity, to have all the force, effect,
and dignity of writings obligatory or instruments under seal: Provided, that the provisions of this Act shall not extend to any instruments
heretofore executed.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be,
and the same are hereby repealed. '

11! Act to be entitled an Act to authorize the recovery bylaw, ofopen
acrounts in favor of certain classes of persons therein named, upon the same proofs which is now allowed by the laws of this State,

in favor of tradesmen and merclzanls.—Assentcd to Dec. 23, 1843.
Pam. 125. 30. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, physicians, blacksmiths, and all other persons in the practice
of any regular craft, shall be allowed to sue for and recover judgment
in the several Courts of Law in this State, on open accounts in their
favor, upon the production and proof of their books of account, in the
same manner, and on the same terms as.is now authorized by exists
ing laws, in cases where tradesmen and merchants are parties plaintifff
in said Courts.‘

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. III. \VITNESSES1'—0RAL EVIDENCE.

Sec. 31. \Vitnesses—subpcnna. Sec. 39. States’ witnesses-—non-resident.

“ 32. Attachment. “ 40. Fees—co1lection.
- " 33. \Vhen discharged. “ 41. Costs in State cases.

“ 34. Fees—two to a point. “ 42. County refunded.
“ 35. Grand Jurors. “ 43. Religious opinion.
" 36. Subpmua ducm te-cum. “ 44. Judge-'3 signature.
" 37. Attachment and fine. “ 45. Contidential communications «

“ 38. Evidence of contents.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. I. 292. [See “Appendix.”]

31. Sec. XIX. Where the attendance of any person shall be
required as a witness in any of the Courts aforesaid,I in any cause
depending therein, it shall be the duty of the Clerks of the said
Courts respectively, on application, to issue writs of subpoena directed to the persons whose attendance shall be required, where such
persons reside within the County in which such cause may be depending, which writ of subpoena shall express the cause, and the party at whose suit it shall be issued, and shall be served on such witnesses at least five days before the Court to which it shall be returnable;
and which writ shall be served by a Sheriff, Constable, or some private person, and the return of a Sheriff or Constable of such service,
or the affidavit of any private person, shall be sufficient evidence
that such subpoena was duly executed.

32. Sec. XX. Where it shall appear in manner aforesaid, that a
witness in any cause shall have been duly summoned, and such Witness shall fail to appear, it shall be the duty of the Court, on motion,
to issue an attachment against such defaulting witness returnable
to the next Court, and shall fine such Witness in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars, unless he or she shall make a sufficient excusc for such non-attendance, which shall be judged of by the

‘Court; but shall nevertheless be subject to the action of the person
at whose suit such witness shall have been summoned, for any damage which he, she, or they may have sustained, by reason of such
son-attendance.

33. Sec. XXI. When a subpoena shall be served on any wit-1‘
mess, in conformity to this Act, it shall be the duty of such person.
so summoned, to attend from time to time, until the cause in which
such witness shall have been summoned istried, or be otherwise discharged by the Court.

34. Sec. XXII. On the last day of the attendance of any witness‘
in each term, it shall and may be lawful, on application of such wit-3
ties, to exhibit his account for attendance, against the person or persins at whose suit he or they may have been summoned, and the
Judge or presiding Justice shall examine and certify the same under
his hand,‘ which shall be countersigned by the Clerk, whereupon
such account so certified, shall have the force and effect of an execution, and may be levied by the Sheriff or Constable, according to
the amount thereof, of the goods and chattels of such party, in like
manner as in cases of other executions. Provided nevertheless, that
where any witness shall claim, and levy for more than is really due,
such witnes shall forfeit and pay to the party injured four times the
amount of the sum so unjustly claimed. And no party cast in any
suit shall be taxed for more than the cost of two witnesses to zuiyj
material point in any cause, which shall be specially certified by the.
Court trying the same; nor shall any party ‘he allowed to tax costs
for different witnesses to different material points, where the same
witnesses shall be sufficient, in the opinion of the Court, to prove
such material point.

An Act to admit Grand Jurors to give evizlence.-—Approved Dec.
10, 1812. Vol. III. 397.

Whereas, doubts do exist as to the propriety of admitting Grand Jurors to give evidence against persons who may have been sworn before them, when in session as a Grand Jury, on account of that part
of the oath which requires them to keep secret the State’s counsel,
their own, and their fellows’, which secresy ought not to exist longer than the term, or after the bill is publicly read in Court; for remedy whereof,

35. Sec. 1. Be it crmctecl, c§‘c. That all Grand Jurors shall be
competent witnesses in any Court of record in this State where it
may be necessary, on account of any thing that may be given in evidence before them, asa body of Grand Jurors; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

Sec. II. [Oath altered accordingly. See Judiciary, Art. J uries.]

36. Whereas, parties litigant in the Courts of this State frequently suffer great inconvenience, and sometimes gross injustice,
by reason of the dilliculty of procuring written testimony which
may be necessary to the successful prosecution or defense of his
cause, where the same happens to be in the possession of persons
not parties to the cause, and residing without the County in which
the cause is pending ; for remedy whereof,

; Be it enacfcd, That from and after the passing of this Act, when
any deed, bond, note, or other writing which it may be necessary
’to use as testimony in airy cause which now is, or may be hereafter
pending in any of the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State, may
abe in the possession of any person not a party to said cause, and not
resident within the County in which said cause is pending, the Clerk
of the Court in which said cause is pending, shall, upon the application of the party or his attorney desirous of procuring such testimony, issue a subpama (Iuces tecum, directed to the person having such
deed, bond, note, or other writing in his possession, and requiring
him to be and appear at the next term of said Court, and to bring
with him into said Court the paper desired to be used as testimony,
which said subpoena duces tecum shall be served thirty days before
the Court to which it is made returnable, by a Sheriff, Constable,
or some private person; and the return of the Sheriff, Constable of
such service, or the affidavit of such private person, shall be willcient evidence that the subpoena was duly served.

37. Sec. II. When a subpoena shall be issued and served in

.terms of the first section of this Act, and the person whose attendance is hereby required shall fail to comply with the requisitions
thereof, it shall be the duty of the Court, on motion, to issue an attachment against such defaulting witness, returnable to the next
term of said Court, and shall line such witness in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars, unless he or she shall make a sufficient
excuse for such failure, which shall be judged of by the Court, but

ishall nevertheless be subject to the action of the person at whose

'suit such witness shall have been summoned, for any damage which
he, she, or they may have sustained by reason of such failure ; Provided nevertheless, that if the person so subpoznaed shall, within ten

'days after the service of such subpoena, deliver to the party at whose

’_instance the subpoena was sued out, or his attorney, or file in the office of the Clerk of the Court from which such subpoena issued, the
paper, the production of which is required by such subpoena, or shall
deliver to the said party or his-attorney, or shall file in the said office, his affidavit that the said paper is not in his power, custody, possession, or control, nor was it at the time of serving said subpoena;
then, andin that case, such delivery or filing of the paper so sought
as aforesaid, or of such affidavit, shall be considered in full and complete compliance with the requisitions of such subpoena duca
tecum. ‘

38. Sec. III. In any cause now pending, or which may hereafter he pending, in the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State,
where any party shall pursue the course hereinbefore pointed out,
but who is unable thereby to procure such written instrument,
such party shall be permitted to go into parol evidence of the contents of such written instrument.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed. V

.43 Act to compensate persons who may be compelled to attend the Superior Courts of this Stateas witnesses in behalf of the State, in

Counties other than where such person or persons may reside.—
Approved Dec. 30, 1836. Pam. 278.

39. Sec. 1. From and after the passage of this Act, that any
person or persons who may be compelled, by subpoena or recognizance, to attend any of the Superior Courts of this State, as a witne§ on the part of the State, in Counties other than where such
p.-rson or persons reside, shall receive for each day, while he or she
may be in attendance on said Court, the sum of two dollars, and the
like sum of two dollars. ‘for every thirty miles, he, she, or they, may
travel, in going to, and returning from said Court, which said several
sums shall be taxed in the bill of cost, and paid for out of the County funds, in such County as the case may be pending, as soon as
such case may be disposed of by said Court.‘

40. Sec. II. Any person or persons, who may attend the Superior Courts as above directed, shall be entitled to such pay as is
therein stipulated, whether there be a conviction of the defendant
or not, upon his making affidavit before some Judge of the Superior, or Justice of the Inferior Court, or Justice of the Peace, to the
number of days which he or she has been in attendance on said Court,
and the number of miles he or she will travel, in coming to and returning from said Court, which said affidavit must be signed by the
presiding Judge, and countersigned by the Clerk of said Court, and
in that case, it shall become a warrant on the County. Treasurer, or
Clerk of the Inferior Court of such Cotuity wherein the witness
has been in attendance. ’

41. Sec. III. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed,
as to prevent the cost being collected in the same manner as heretofore pointed out by law, from any defendant or defendants in State
cases.

42. Sec. IV. So much of said cost when collected, as has been
paid out by the County Treasurer, or the Clerk of the Inferior
Court, to witness or witnesses who may reside without the limits of
such County, shall be paid overby the Sheriff or Clerk of the Superior Court, to such County Treasurer or Clerk of the Inferior Court,
as may have paid the same, and be applied to County purposes.

An Act to remove all disabilities whatever from persons in this State
from testifying in any of the Courts thereof, or having their oath
or ajirmation, where the same is necessary to secure any right or
interest whatever, by reason of any religious opinion he, she or

they may entertain or e:rpress.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam.
I44.

43. Size. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
passage of this Act, no person shall be excluded from testifying as a
witness in any of the Courts of Law or Equity in this State ; or deprived of his, her or their oath or affinnation, touching any matter
or thing where an oath or afiirmation is necessary to secure any right
or interest whatsoever, by reason of any religious opinion such person or persons may entertain or express; Provided, nothing in this
Act shall prohibit such disabilities going in evidence to the Jury to
affect the credit of such witness or witnesses.

An Act to amend the laws of this State, pointing out the manner of

collecting witnesses’ fees for their attendance, under subpazna, in
certain cases.—Assented to Nov. 26, 1842. Pam. 167.

r 44. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
‘this Act, in the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, it shall
'not be necessary for the Judge or presiding Justice to examine and
sign the accounts of witnesses serving under subpoenas, as is now
required by law; but the same being examined and signed by the
Clerk of such Court, shall have the same force and effect as now directed by law.

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be, and the
same are hereby repealed.

An Act to regulate the testimony of Attorneys at Law.—Approved
' Feb. 21, 1850. Pam. 46.

45. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this Act, it
shall not be lawful for any attorney at Law or in Equity in any case
hereafter commenced, to give testimony in any Court of Law or
Equity in this State, of any matter or thing, either for or against
his client, the knowledge of which he may have acquired from his
client, or during the existence and by reason of the relationship of
client and attorney : Provided, nevertheless, That no attorney shall
be exempted from making answer as defendant, when a proper case
shall be made in Equity, and his answer required as by the laws
now in existence.

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be, and the
same are hereby repealed.

J1IDICIARY."

A. COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION.
B. COURTS OF SPECIAL JURISDICTION.

COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION.

I. SUPREME COURT FOR CORRECTION OI‘ ERRORS.
II. SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR COURTS.

I. COURTS OF GENERAL JURISDICTION.

I. SUPREME COURT FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS.1’

Sec. 1. Organization. Sec. 20. Reporter may practise.

“ 2. Sessions. “ 21. Assistant Reporter.

“ 3. Absence of Judges. “ 22. Bills of Exceptions tendered in 30
" 4. Mode of appealing to this Court. days.

“ 5. Decision and damages. . “ 23. cord of Transcripts.

“ 6. Mzmdmnus. “ 24. Payment of Cost in 30 days.
“ 7. Sheriff must attend. “ 25. Recording opinions.

“ 8. Salary of Judges. “ 26. Seals-—-no fee.

“ 9. Clerk, duties—Records. “ 27. Copy Bill of Exceptions.

“ 10. Security pcndente lite. “ 28. Rexnittiter.

“ 11. Fees of Clerk. “ 29. No Service—no fee.

-‘ 12. Reportc-r—Salary—duties. “ 30. Amendment.

“ 13. Clerk's m1d1{eporter's Oath. “ 31. Amendment.

" 14. Rules of l’ractiee——Sen1. “ 32. Copy Bill of Exceptions.

“ 15. N [glee-t of Plaintiiif in Error. “ 33. Report of Arguments.

“ 16. At.mn1ey and Solicitor Gen’ls. duty. “ 34. Sessions.
“ 17. Atiidavit of Poverty, and ..\'on-re:.i- “ 35. Attorney and Solicitor General’:
dents. fees.
“ 18. Viinecessary Parties. “ 33. How paid.
“ 1'J. .\'eeess:u'y Parties.

An Act to carry into efect that part of ‘the first section of the third
Article of the Constit-ution, which requires the establishment of a
Supreme Courtjbr the Correction of Errors ; and to organize the
same, and to regulate the proceedings th.ereof.—Approved Dec.

10, 1845. Pam. 18.

1. See. I. Be it enacted, That in pursuance of the first section
of the third article of the Constitution, there shall be, and it is hereby established, a Court for the Correction of Errors, to be called the
Supreme Court of the State of Georgia; the said Court shall consist
of three Judges, who shall be elected at the present session of the
General Assembly ; one, for the term of six years; one for the term
of four years; and one for the term of two years, during which terms
they shall respectively hold their offices, unless sooner removed, in
the manner pointed out by the Constitution. No person shall be
eligible to the office of Judge, unless he shall have been duly admitted and licensed to plead and practise in the Courts of Law and
Equity in this State ten years, at least, prior to his election. The
Governor shall, within twenty days after the election of said Judges,
commission them respectively for the terms for which they shall have
been elected. In case of the death, resignation, or removal from office of any of said Judges, the Governor shall appoint and commission some {it and proper person to fill such vacancy, until the meeting of the General Assembly next after such vacancy, when the
General Assembly shall till the same- And if any such vacancy occur during a session of the General Assembly; the same shall he filled
at such session. Every Judge of said Court who shall be elect0d after the present session of the General Assembly, (except
where he is elected to fill a vaeancy,) shall hold his office for and‘
«luring the term of six years, and shall be commissioned accordingly‘
by the Governor.

‘-3. Sec. II. The said Supreme Court shall be hclden at the timesf
and places following, to wit: On the second Monday in January:
and third Monday in June, in each year, for the first District, to be‘
Wnposed of the Eastern and Southern Judicial Circuits, alternately
at Savannah and Hawkinsville. On the fourth Mondays in January
and July in each year, for the second District, to be composed of the
bomb Western and Chattahoochee Circuits, alternately at Talbotten
and Americas. On the second Monday in February and August in
fwlh year, for the third District, to be composed of the Coweta and
lflint Judicial Circuits, alternately at Macon and Decatur. On the
1*-urth Mondays in March and September in each ycar,”“ for the fourth
District, to be composed of the Western and Cherokee Circuits, alIiémately at Cassville and Gaincsville. On the first Nlondays in May
‘W1 November in each year, for the fifth District, to be composed of
the Middle, Northern and Ocmulgee J udieial Circuits, at the city of
Milledgeville.

3. Sec. III. It shall be the duty of all the Judges of said Court
to attend at each term of said Court; but if from providential cause,
any one of said Judges cannot attend a Court, such Court may be
holden by two Judges. If only one Judge shall attend a Court, it
shall be his duty to open the Court, and to adjourn it to a day not
more than two days beyond the regular term, at which time, if two
Judges do not attend, the Court shall in that case be adjourned to
the next regular term.

4. Sec. IV. The Supreme Court shall bear and determine, at
the first term of each Court, all such cases in Law and Equity, as
may be brought from any of the Superior Courts of this State within the District as created by this Act for which said Supreme Court
is holden. All causes of a criminal or civil nature‘ may, for alleged
error in any decision, sentence, judgment, or decree, of any such Surperior Court, be carried up from the Counties in the respective districts aforcsaid. to the Judges of the Supreme Court, at the respective
'terms thereof, for such District, to be by the said Supreme Court revised and determined. Any criminal cause may be carried up to
the Supreme Court on a bill of exceptions, in Writing, specifying
;the error or errors of law complained of, to be drawn up by the par;ty, his counsel or attorney, within four* days after the trial of the
cause in which the decision or sentence has been had, and be submitted to the Judge of the Superior Court before whom such criminal cause may have been tried, to be by him certified and signed.
Any cause of a civil nature, either on the Law or Equity side of
the Superior Court, may in like manner, be carried to the Supreme
-Court, on a billi of exceptions, specifying the error or errors3 complained of in any decision or judgment, to be drawn up by the par{ty complaining thereof, his counsel, solicitor or attorney, within the
time at'oresaid"" and submitted to the Judge before Whom the cause
may have been heard, to be by him certified and signed ;“ but in no
case shall the facts be controverted in the Supreme Court so as to
require attendance of any witness or witnesses, under any pretense

whatever. Said Supreme Court shall hear and determine upon
matters contained in the transcript of the record of the cause, and
not otherwise. Upon exhibition of any such bill of exceptions to‘?
the Judge of the Superior Court, it shall be his duty, if such bill of z
exceptions be true and consistent with what has transpired in the
cause before him, to certify and sign the same. Such bill of exceptions shall operate as a supcrsedeas to the judgment, sentence,‘
execution, or decree of the Court below, in all cases where bond mayl
le given, or affidavit filed, as hereinafter provided. If in civil cases,
either in Law or Equity, the party complaining of error shall, with-j
in four days’ after the term at which the exceptions were taken, pay:
all costs which may have accrued, and either personally, or by his
agent, solicitor, or attorney in fact, or at law, give bond‘ with secu-5
my to be approved of by the Clerk of the Superior Court, and con-;
ditioned to pay the eventual condemnation money, and all subsequent costs; and if in a criminal case, where the offense is by law
bailable, the party complaining of error shall enter into recognizance
with security to be in like manner approved, conditioned for the ap-,
pearance in person of such party complaining, to abide the final order, judgment, or sentence of said Court; and if the offense be not;
bailable, or if the party be sentenced to imprisonment in the Penitentiary, and be unable to give security as required, the Judge of the
Superior Court may order a supcrsedcus at the time of certifying and
signing the bill of exceptions. When such bill of exceptions? shall
have been signed and certified by the Judge of the Superior Court,
and such bond with security shall have been given, or recognizance
with security entered into, and costs paid, notice of the signing of
such bill of exceptions shall be given, if in acriminal cause, to the Attorney or Solicitor General, and in civil causes in Law or Equity, to
the adverse party, or his counsel, within ten days after the same
shall have been done, and shall be filed in the Clerks’ office where
such bond or recognizance has been given, imznediately thereafter,
and on a copy of such notice being served by a Sherilf, Constable
or Attorney of the Superior Court‘‘’ and filed in the Clerks’ office
with the bill of exceptions, it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the
Superior Court below to certify and send up to the Supreme Court
acomplete transcript of the entire record of the cause below‘ duly
certified under his hand and seal of office, and also the bill of exceptions,"" within ten days after he shall have received the original
notice, with the return of service thereon.
5. SEC. V. The Supreme Court shall proceed at the first term,
(unless prevented by providential cause,)‘ to hear and determine
each and every cause which may in manner aforesaid, be sent up
from the Court below, upon the record and bill of exceptions, on the
ground therein specified, and on no other grounds. Upon the decision of said Supreme Court on matters of Law, or principles of Equity, which may arise in the bill of exceptions, ( which decisions shall
always be in writing, and be delivered by the Judges of the said
Court scriatim, except in cases where they are unanimous,) the
Court shall cause to be certified to the Court below, such decision,
and award such order and direction in the premises as may be consistent with the law and justice of the case ; which decision, so
rendered and ordered, and direction so awarded, shall be respected
and carried into full effect by the Court below. If the decision and
judgment of the Court below be for any sum certain, and be afi"1rmed in the Supreme Court, the plaintifff may in the Superior Court enter judgment against the defendant and his securities for the amoiuit
of principal, interest, and costs, as shall have been confessed or
found by a Jury, and ten per cent. damages on the principal sum, and
have execution immediately after the decision of the Supreme Court,
so certified as aforesaid.’ Provided, that if any one or more of the
Judges of the Supreme Court shall certify that in his or their opinion such cause was not taken up for delay only, then and in such
case, the damages shall not be allowed.” Judgments in the Court
below, if affirmed, shall not lose any lien or priority by reason of the
proceedings in the Court above.
' 6. Sec. VI. If any Judge of the Superior Court shall refuse to
certify a bill of exceptions, when properly tendered, or if any Clerk
shall fail or refuse to send up the transcript of the whole record in
‘any cause, according to the provisions of this Act, or he or any
‘Sheriff shall refuse or neglect to perform any duties imposed upon
him by this Act, said Supreme Court, while in session in any district
in this State, may issue a writ of mandamus to such officer, and enforce obedience thereto, if necessary, by attachment ;‘ and in case
that such refusal by any such officer have delayed the party applying
for, or tendering a bill of exceptions as aforesaid, beyond the time
limited in the foregoing part of this Act, he shall not thereby lose
his remedy, but may proceed as if the time limited had not expired.
3 7. Size. VII. The Sheriff of the County wherein the Supreme
Court is holden, or his deputy, shall attend the sessions thereof, and
obey all lawful orders, enforce all lawful commands, and execute all
lawful processes of said Court. And for the service of any process,

or order of said Court, he shall receive the fees allowed for like ser-1'
rice in the Superior Courts, to be taxed and paid in like manner.

8. Sec. VIII. Each of the said Judges of the Supreme Court:
shall receive a salary of two thousand five hundred dollars per annum, to be paid as the salaries of the Judges of the Superior Courts
are now paid. The amount of said salary shall not be increased or
diminished during the continuance of such Judge of the Supreme
Court in office ; and no Judge shall receive any other perquisite, re-rs

‘ ward or compensation, than the amount of his salary. Each and”

every Judge of the Supreme Court shall, before the Governor of
the State, and prior to his receiving his commission, take the oath to
support the Constitution, and other oaths now by law required of c
the judicial officers 01 this State.

9. Sec. IX. The said Supreme Court shall appoint some fit andc
rroper person as Clerk thereof, who shall hold his ‘appointment for
six years, unless removed by said Court upon complaint made, and E
cause shown for incapacity, improper conduct, or neglect of duty.°
Said Clerk shall keep an oiiice at the Seat of Government, in one of g
the departments of the Capitol, where all books, records and archives,
and the seal of the said Court shall remain. He shall attend all the I
sessions of said Court, and obey all lawful orders thereof; he shall
keep in substantial bound books fair and regular minutes of the pro«
ceedings of said Court, a record of all its judicial acts, a docket of
its causes, and such other books as said Court may from time to time
order and direct; he shall certify, when required, upon payment of
his fees, all proceedings of the said Court in the manner now in use
in the Superior Courts of this State. And the record and minutes:
of said Supreme Court, and copies thereof, shall be evidence in the:
same manner and under the same circumstances as those of the S11-;
perior Courts now are ; said Supreme Court being to all intents and’
purposes a Court of Record. The said Clerk shall be authorized to:
appoint a deputy or deputies, in his discretion, he being responsible:
for the faithful performance of their duties.

10. Sec. X. If, during the pendency of any cause in the Su-'
preme Court, the security taken on the removal of said cause to the
Supreme Court shall become insufficient or inadequate, by reason of
removal from the State, insolvency or otherwise, it shall be the dut‘ I
of the Court so certifying said cause, on application on oath setti' Jg
forth the facts showing the inadequacy of said security from inr ,.01.
vency or otherwise, to require additional and other security, ur 4335
the appellant shall make an affidavit under the seventeenth secti ‘on of
this Act, and if the appellant shall fail or refuse to give such, additional security, or make and file such affidavit, the Court belo w Shall
certify this fact to the Supreme Court, whereupon said suit sham be
dismissed at the appellant’s costs, and the judgment in the ‘Jam-¢ below shall be affirmed with costs.

11. Sec. XI. The said Clerk shall be entitled to the same fees
as Clerks of the Superior Courts in this State, to be taxed as part of
the costs, and for which the Attorney of record shall always be

bound.
12. Sec. XII. Some fit and proper person shall be elected by

the Judges of said Court as Reporter, who shall hold his oiiiee during
the term of six years, unless sooner removed by the Court, and shall

ireceive for his services a salary from the State of one thousand dollars per annum. Said Reporter shall attend all the sessions of said
Court, and report, in a proper and professional manner, all the decisions there made, with the reasons therefore, [and he shall not, during
his service as Reporter, appear as counsel, or act as attorney in any

903.83 in any Court in this State.]* The Reporter shall from time to
time publish, in good and substantial forms, the reports so made as
aforesaid, and if at any time he shall neglect to publish within four

‘months after sessions for each year have closed the decisions of that
year, he shall forfeit one fourth of his salary for that year, and another fourth for every additional month’s delay. Provided, that if
the Judges of said Court, or a majority of them, shall certify that
such delay was not from any fault or neglect of the Reporter himself, or those under his control, such forfeiture shall not be incurred.
The Reporter shall also be allowed the copy-right. And provided,
further, that he furnish, free of expense, and well bound, one copy
of said reports to each Judge of said Court for the time being, one
copy to the Clerk of said Court, to be kept in his office as public
property, twenty-five copies to the State, to be delivered to his Excellency the Governor as soon as may be, said twenty-five copies to
be disposed of as the General Assembly may direct, and a copy to
each Clerk of the Superior Court for each County in the State, to be
kept in his office free for the perusal of any person.

13. See. XIII. The Clerk and Reporter of said Court, before
entering on the duties of their respective orlices, shall be sworn to
the faithful discharge of their duties, and take all other oaths prescribed by law for civil officers.

14. Sec. XIV. The Judges of said Supreme Court shall have

"power to establish rules of practice, and to regulate the admission of
attorneys in said Supreme Court, and to award all such process as
‘may be necessary to enforce obedience to their orders and judgments,
and as are usual in other appellate tribunals ; and also to establish
and procure aseal for said Court.
15. Sec. XV. In case plaintifff in error shall fail to cause the
transcript of the record to be filed with the Clerk of the Supreme
Court, at the place of holding said Court, by the third day of the
:term next succeeding the time of granting the supcrscdcas; and the
adverse party shall file with the Clerk of the Supreme Court a certificate of the granting of such supersedeas, signed by the Clerk of the
Superfxor Court wherein the cause is depending, then it shall be the
duty of such Supreme Court to afiirm the judgment below on such
certificate.

16. SEC. XVI. It shall be the duty of the Attorney or Solicitor

'General of the Judicial Circuit wherein any criminal cause is tried,
and which may be taken up in manner aforesaid, to appear and attend to said cause in the Supreme Courtnr

17'. See. XVII. Whenevera party shall not be able to give se-J
curity, he shall file an affidavit stating that he is unable, from his:
poverty, to give the security for the eventual costs and condemnation}
money, and that his counsel has advised him that he has good cause}
for a Writ of error; and upon filing the same in the Clerk’s office,‘
he shall be entitled to all the privileges which he would have had if
he had given the security and paid the costs as required by this Act.
And when any party in any civil cause, residing out of the County]
in which it may be tried, shall not be desirous of obtaining a super-1
sedeas, he shall be entitled to have his cause carried up to the Su-}
preme Court, under the provisions of this Act, Without giving bond;

or making affidavit as hereinbefore provided, the adverse party being
at liberty to proceed with execution.

An Act amendatory of the Act of the General Assembly organizing
the Supreme Court, so far as to make it discretionary with plaintiffs in error whether they will include as parties plaintiffy securities on appeal, on injunction bonds, and writs of error.—Approved
Dec. 22, 1847. Pam. 81.

18. SEC. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, it shall in no case be considered as necessary to join with?
the parties to the suit in the Superior Court, carrying a case therefrom up to the Supreme Court, by bills of exceptions and writs of
error, the security on appeal or on any injunction bond.‘

19. Sec. II. No writ of error shall be dismissed or delayed in its

hearing and decision, where the parties to the writ or declaration below are included in said Writ of error.’

An Act to amend the twelfth section of an Act entitled an Act to carry into efect that part of the first section of the third Article cy the
Constitution which requires the establishment of a Supreme Court
for the correction of errors, and to organize the same, and to regulate the proeeedings thereof, assented to on the tenth day of December, eighteen hundred and forty-_/ive.—Approved Dec. 24, 1847'.
Pam. 81.

20. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, so much of said recited section as declares that the Reporter of said Court shall not, during his services as Reporter, appear as counsel or act as attorney in any case in any Court in this
State be, and the same is hereby repealed.

21. Sec. II. The Reporter of said Supreme Court shall be entitled to receive his salary quarterly, as other State officers, and be
authorized to appoint an Assistant Reporter, such appointment to be
submitted to and approved by the Judges of said Court, and entered

upon the minutes, either in term or vacation; and the said Reporter
or his assistant shall attend each term of the Court, unless prevented
by providential cause, or relieved therefrom by leave of absence by
the Judge.

Sr-zc. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act amendatory of the Act approved the tenth of December,
eighteen hundred and fort_z/-five, organizing a Supreme Court for
the correction of errors, in relation to bills of exceptions, giving of
bond by the party tahizzg up a case, and directory of the duty of
the Clerk as to transcripts accompanying cases.—Approved Dec.
29, 1847. Pam. 82. '

22. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
’this Act, that so much of the Act of which this is amendatory as
requires bills of exceptions, in both civil, criminal and equity eases,
tto be drawn up and submitted to the'Judge before whom such cause
was tried within four days after the trial thereof, be and the same
is hereby altered and amended so as to allow them to be drawn up
and submitted for signature and ._certification by the Judge within
thirty days‘ after the close of the term in which said cause was
heard. a
23. SEC. 11. VVith aview to lighten the costs upon parties in
’said Court, that the transcripts of the record from the Court below
shall not be recorded by the Clerk of the Supreme Court, but shall
be filed up carefully by number of the proper term of the Court in
which the cause in which it was used was tried. '
21. SEC. III. So much of the fourth section of the Act of which
this is amendatory as prescribes four days within which cost shall be
paid and bond given be, and is hereby extended to thirty days.

An Act to curta-fl the labor of the C'Z«,-rl: (f the Supreme Court, and
to reduce the cost in safu’ Court, and to author-i.:'e amendments in

said C'ourt.——Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 68.

. 25. SEC. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the Clerk of the Supreme Court shall not be required to
record the opinion of the Court in cases decided in the Supreme
Court.

‘26. SEC. 11. The Clerk of the Supreme Court shall make no
charge for attaching the seal of said Court to the writ of error, citation or remittance, [remittiter] or any precept issued by him.

r 27’. Sec. III. \Vhen exceptions are filed in any case in the Su,.perior Court, the Clerk of the Superior Court shall make out a copy

of the bill of exceptions, and send it up to the Supreme Court, on
or before the first day of Court to which the writ of error is returnable, with the transcript of the record, and file the original bill of
exceptions in his office, for the inspection of all parties interested.‘

28. Sec. IV. The remitter shall consist of the judgment of the
Supreme Court and nothing more.

29. Sec. V. The Clerk of the Supreme Court shall make no
charge but for services actually performed; and for services performed, he shall be allowed the same cost as are allowed by law to
the Clerk of the Superior Court.

30. Sec. VI. All bills of exception and the copies thereof, shall
be amendable by order of the Supreme Court, so as to be made to
conform to the record of the cause.1"

An Act in relation to the Supreme Court of this State.-—Approved
Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 141.

Whereas, as it is essential to the proper administration of the laws
that the sessions of the Supreme Court be held at such places as will
afford the Judges the use - of competent libraries, which is not the
case under existing laws, for remedy whereof,

31. See. I. Be it enacted, That all bills of exceptions, writs of
error and citations in or from the Supreme Court shall be amendable
without delay or cost, in conformity to the record or cause below.’

32. Sec. II. The Clerk of the Supreme [Superior] Court shallin
all cases retain the bill of exceptions in his office,'and send upa copy
thereof to the Supreme Court as a part of the transcript of the record,“ and no costs shall be charged in the Supreme Court for a copy
of the bill of exceptions.

An Act to amend the several Acts in relation to the Supreme Court,
so far as they relate to the Reporter and Assistant Reporter.-—Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 140.

33. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That it shall not be lawful for the

Reporter of the decisions of the Supreme Court of this State, or his

assistant, in any case hereafter to incorporate into, or publish with
the decisions of said Court, or to insert into any volume of said reports
any argument or brief of counsel farther than a simple statement or

brief of the authorities referred to by said counsel, and the points
made.

An Act to change the time of holding the Supreme Court at Cassville

and Gainesville, and the Superior Court of Franklin County.Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 140. V

34. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the first day of
May next, the sessions of the Supreme Court shall be held on the
third Monday in April and October, for the fourth district, composed
of the Western and Cherokee Circuits, alternately at Cassville and

Gainesville, instead of the fourth Monday in March and September,
as heretofore.

Sec. II. [Local, as to Franklin County.]

An Act to compensate Solicitors General jbr services rendered the State

in the Supreme Court in criminal cases.—Approved Feb. 23,
1850. Pam. 375.

35. See. I. Be it eancted, That the Solicitors General of the

several judicial circuits of this State, for the rendition of oilicial

services in the Supreme Court in criminal cases, shall receive the
following fees, to wit: In all cases where the punishment is less
than confinement and labor in the penitentiary, the sum of fifteen
dollars; in all cases involving punishment by confinement and labor
in the penitentiary, the sum of thirty dollars; and in all cases Where
the punishment is (loath, the sum of fifty dollars.

36. Sec. II. Upon the presentation of the certificate of the Clerk
of the Supreme Court of the trial of the case or cases, and the rendition of the service, the Governor shall draw his warrant in favor
of the Solicitor or Solicitors, in accordance with the provisions of
the first section of this Act, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

II. SUPERIOR AND INFERIOR COURTS.

ART. I. JUDGES-—SESSIONS AND ADJOURNMENTS. Sec. 37.
ART. II. JURISDICTION. 1. Cozuxon Law. Sec. 49.
2. Eaurrr AND Eeurrr Pnscrlcn. Sec. 61.
ART. III. ACTION.

1. Cmurnxcr-zxr.-:x'r—A narnnnm AND D1smss.Iu.—Sc1rA 'ro MAKE mnrnas. Sec. 68.
. BAIL is Crvn. Cases. Sec. 84.

. PARTIES. Sec. 100.

Pnmnmos AND Pnocnznmes rzxmxo Acrrox, um rmnnnt or Axzxnuzxr,

Anrwrnsrrox-—Ss'r-err, 1-zrc. Sec. 105.

. V1anmcr—JUnosm.\'1--—'Sur or Exnctrrrox, AND APPEAL. Sec. 131.

. Nzw ’l‘nur.s. Sec. 157.

. Cusrs Ix Crvu. Cssns. Sec. 160.

. Exscu'nox—I1.1.zu.u.rrr-—SALn AND Wnrr or Posssssrox. Sec. 170.

. IV. BILLS OF EXCHANGE, NOTES, &c. Sec. 206.

“ V. CERTIORARI, INJUNCTION AND NE-EXEAT. Sec. 215.

“ VI. CITIZENSHIP AND RESIDENCE. Sec.2-12.

“ VII. CLAIMS AND FORTHCOMING BONDS. Sec. 248.

“ VIII. COMPUTATION OF TIME. See. 258.

“ IX. CORONERS AND INQUESTS. Sec. 269.

“ X. CORPORATIONS. Sec. 276.

“ XI. IIABEAS CORPUS. Sec. 290.

“ XII. JOINT TENANTS. Sec. 293.

" XIII. JURIES. Sec. 294.

" XIV. LIENS. Sec. 318.

" XV. LDIITATION OF ACTIONS. Sec. 332.

“ XVI. MORTGAGES—I:‘ORECLOSURE, &c. Sec. 358.

“ XVII. OFFICERS OF COURT. Sec. 363.

“ XVIII. PARTITION. Sec. 393.

“ XIX. PARTNERS AN D PARTNERSHIP. Sec. 399.

" XX. POSSESSORY W'ARRANT AND PROCEEDIN G TIIZEREON’,

Sec. 429.
“ XXI. SCRETIES AND INDORSERS. Sec. 430.
“ XXII. USURY. Sec. 454.

®*~I@Ot :b¢~3l¢

ART. I. JUDGES,’ SESSIONS AND ADJOURNMENTS.

Sec. 37. Sessions of Superior Court. Sec. 43. Adjournment Inferior Court.

“ 38. Sessions Inferior Court. “ 44. Adjournment Superior Court.

" 39. Adjournment by Clerk. “ 45. Providential cause.

" 40. Judge interested—Justices preside. " 46. Rules of Practice by one Judge.
“ 41. Judges may alternate. “ 47. Judge's opinion on facts.

" 42. Rules of Practice. “ 48. Ground of Error.

An Act to amend an Act entitled “An Act to revise and amend the Jude'ciary System of this Stale.”—Approved Feb. 16, 1799. Vol. I. 292.

37. See. I. The Superior Courts shall be held in each County
in the respective districts twice in every year, by one or more of the
Judges of the Superior Courts, at the several times hereinafter mentioned. [Table of Courts, corrected down to this time, 1850.]

38. Sec. II. The Inferior Courts shall be held twice in every
year in each County, by the Justices of the said Inferior Courts, or a
majority of them,’ at the several times hereinafter mentioned. [Table
of Courts, corrected down to this time.]

An Act to alter the times, rye. and to amend certain parts of the Act
entitled “ an Act to amend an Act, entitLetl an Act to revise and
ameml the Judiciary System of this State."—Assented to Dec.'5,
1801. Vol. II, 37.

Sec. IV. [Repeals the XVIth sec. of the Act of 1799.]
40. Sec. V. In all cases brought in the said Superior Courts, or
either of them, where either of the Judges thereof shall be a party,
' or interested therein, it shall be the duty of three or more of the Jus‘ tices of the Inferior Court to preside at the trial of the same.“

An Act to authorize the Judges of the Superior Courts in this State
to alternate in their districts.-—Assented to Dec. 8, 1806. Vol. II.
328.

41. It shall and may be lawful for the Judges of the Superior
Courts in this State, and they are hereby authorized to alternate in
their districts from and immerliately after the first day of January
next, any law to the contrary notwith.standing.'|'

An Act to compel the Jmlgcs of the Superior Courts of this State to
convene at the seat of Government in this State, once in each year,

_/Lr the purpose of cstablis/ting uniform Rules of Practice throughout this State.—Approved Dec. 24, 1821. Vol. IV. 232.

42. From and after the next election of Judges of the Superior
Courts of this State, that it shall be the duty of the said several
.Judges to convene at the seat of Government of this State once in
each year, at such a time as they or a majority of them may appoint,
f for the purpose of establishing uniform rules of practice throughout
the several circuits of this State,I and it shall be the duty of the
Judges so convened, to notify such of the Judges who may be absent, of such rules or alterations of rules as may be established as
aforesaid.

An Act to authorize the adjournment of the Superior and Inferior
Courts, and Courts of Ordinary, in certain cases, by the 0 ctr:

therein namecl.—Approved Dec. 8, 1823. Vol. IV. 211.

Whereas, it frequently happens from unavoidable eirctunstances
that the Judge of the Superior Courts, a majority of the Justices of

the Inferior Courts, cannot attend at the regular term of said Courts,
and that a term is thereby lost, to the great injury of those concemed, as well as a delay of justice:

43. Be it thereforeeenacted, «Ye. That from and after the passing
of this Act, that if, from any circumstance, amajority of the Justices?
of the Interior Court in any of the Counties of this State should fail‘
toattend at the regular term of said Inferior Courts, or at any adjourned term, it shall and may be lawful for any one of the Justices
of the Interior Court in the County where such failure may take
place, together with the Sheriff or his deputy, Coroner or Constable,
and the Clerk of said Court, to adjourn said Court to such time as
they in their judgment may think proper.

Sec. II. [As to Courts of Ordinary, see “ Executors,” 6Lc. sec. 11.]

44. Sec. III. The Clerks of the Superior Court of this State be:
authorized, whenever they are informed by the presiding Judge that:
itis not possible for him to attend ‘the regular term of said Court,C
from sickness or other causes, to adjourn the same to such time as he
may direct,* and shall, moreover, advertise the same at the Court
house of the County in which said Court is to be held, and one or
more times in some public gazette of the State.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the third section of an Act entitled an Act
to authorize the azljournment of the Superior and I nfcrior Courts,

and Courts of Ordinary, in certain cases, by the ojiccrs therein named,

passed December 8th, 1823.—Assented to Dec. 25, 1837. Pam.
79.

45. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act none of the Superior Courts of this State shall be adjourned
under the above recited Act, for any other cause than that of sickness
of the presiding Judge, or of his family or other providential cause,
which shall be expressed in the order of adjournment.

Sac. II. [Repealing clause.]

-in Act to amzul and declare inoperative all rules of practice for the
buperior and Inferior Courts of any J udicial Circuit, which have
not been agreed upon and assented to by a nmjority of all the Judges

of the Superior Courts in cnnventionjbr such purposes.—Approved Dec. 29, 1847. Pam. 195.

45. Whereas, by a law of this State, the Judges of the Superior
Courts are authorized to fix and establish rules of practice for all
‘he Superior and Inferior Courts of this State ; and whereas, a practice
has grown up within a few years past of some of the Circuit Judges
Establishing rules ‘without the assent and concurrence of their associates in office, thereby producing a want of uniformity in the practice, an evil which requires legislative remedy :

Sec. 1. Be it thereforee enacted, That all rules of practice for the
Superior or Inferior Courts prescribed, or which may be prescribed
by any other authority than that which has by law been deputed to

- all the Judges of the Superior Courts of Georgia in Convention,‘ be

and the same are hereby declared to be null and inoperative.

An Act to prevent Judges of the several Superior Courts in this State
from making certain charges or giving their opinions to or in hearing of the Jury, and to define the same as error.—Approved Feb.
21, 1850. Pam. 271.

47. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, it shall not be lawful for any oreither of the Judges of the
several Superior Courts of this State, in any Court, whether civil or
criminal, or in Equity, during its progress, or in his charge to the
Jury, to express or intimate his opinion as to what has or has not
been proved, or as to the guilt of the accused.

48. Sec. II. Should any Judge of said Superior Courts violate
the provisions of the first section of this Act, it shall be held by the
Supreme Court for Correction of Errors in this State to be reversed,
and a new trial granted in the Court below, with such directions as
they may lawfully make.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. II. J'URISDICTIOI\’.1~’1. Cosmo}: LAW.
2. Eourrr, AND EQUITY PRACTICE.

1. COMMON LA'\V JURISDICTION.

Sec. 49. Jurisdiction of Superior and Infe- Sec. 55. Continuance.

rior Courts. “ 56. Discovery at Law.
“ 50. Courts of Record. “ 57. Order in Vacation.
“ 51. Production of books and papers. “ 58. Non-resident Plaintiffs.
“ 52. Jliunde Statute. “ 59. Extended to City Courts.
“ -53. Discovery in aid of suit. “ 60. Time to answer.

“ 54. Time to serve notice for papers.

Judiciary Act of 16th Feb. 1799.—[For title, see sec. 37.]

rownns common T0 Born.‘

49. Sec. III. The said Superior and Inferior Courts, shall have.
full power and authority to hear and determine all causes both civil}
and criminal, of which they shall severally have jurisdiction, accord-‘
ing to the Constitution and laws of this State, by 3. Jury of twelve
men, to be taken from the County, in such manner as shall hereinafter be prescribedf according to the usages and customs of law.‘

50. Sec. V. The said Superior and Inferior Courts shall be
Courts of record, and have power to administer oaths, and exercise
all other necessary powers appertaining_ to their jurisdictions respectively, according to law; and where any of the said Courts shall fail
to meet, the proceedings in such Courts shall not thereby be discontinued, but shall stand continued over in the same manner as if such
failure had not been ; and all witnesses going to, attending on, and
returning from any of the said Courts, shall be free from arrest on any
civil process.I

51. Sec. VI. The said Courts shall have power on the trial of causes
cognizable before them respectively on ten§ days’ notice, and proof
thereof being previously given to the opposite party, or his, her, or
their attorney, on motion to require either party to produce books and
other writings, in his, her, or their possession,‘|l power or custody,
which shall contain evidence pertinent to the cause in question, under
circumstances Where such party might be compelled to produce the
same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in Equity ; and if the plainmt shall fail or refuse to comply with such order, it shall be lawful
fur the Court on motion to give judgment against such plaintifff as
In case of nonsuit; and if the defendant shall fail or refuse to comply therewith, the Court on motion shall give judgment against such
detendant as in case of judgment by default ;’ and the said Courts

rcspectively shall have power and authority to establish copies of lost
japers, deeds, or other writings, under such rules and precautions as
are or may have been customary and according to Law and Equity.“

to amend an Act, entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary
of this State, passed 16th February, l799.—This Act passed Dec.
21st, 1820. Vol. IV. 203.

5'2. IVhereas, the said recited section is in the words following,
to wit: that the Superior Courts in the several Counties shall exercise the powers of a Court of Equity, in all cases where a Common
Law remedy is not adequate to compel parties in any cause to discover on oath all requisite points necessary to the investigation of
truth and justice, to discover transactions between copartners and
co-executors, to compel distribution of intestate estates, and payment
of legacies, to discover fraudulent transactions for the benefit of cre.litors. and the proceedings in all such cases shall be by bill, and such
other proceedings as are usual in such cases, until the setting down
of the cause for trial ; and the Courts shall order the proceedings in
such manner as that the same shall be ready for trial at furthest at
the third term from the filing such bill inclusive, unless very special
cause be shown to induce the Court to continue the same, which
shall not extend to more than four terms; and all such bills shall be
read and sanctioned by one of the Judges, and a copy thereof served
on the opposite party at least thirty days before the filing of such
bill in Court; and the party against whom such bill shall be filed,
shall appear and answer to the same at the next Court; and if he,
she, or they shall fail to do so, the facts in the said bill shall be taken
pro cm;/'csso, and the Court may proceed to decree as to justice shall
appertain; and whereas, under the construction of the said recited
section, the Equity side of the Court has drawn to itself exclusively
all cognizance of the cases in said section enumerated, even when
such cases depend upon aliunde proof, to the manifest embarrassment
of justice in many cases, to the injury of the good citizens of this
State ; for remedy whereof,

Be it cnactezl, That from and after the passing of this Act, whenever [in] any of the cases enumerated in the before recited section,
a plaintifff or complainant shall conceive that he, she, or they'can establish his, her, or their claim, without resorting to the conscience of

the defendant, it shall and may be lawful for every such plaintifff er

complainant to institute his, her, or their action upon the Common
Law side of the Court, and shall not be held to proceed with the forms
of Equity ;1 any law or usage to the contrary notwithstandino.

 Sec. II. All parties in any of the cases mentioned in the before recited section, after the commencement of the action at Common Law, may, during the progress of said suit, file his, her, or their
bill'i' for the discovery of testimony in aid or defense of his, her, or
their Common Law action, in all cases where the same may be necessary.

An Act to alter and amend the sixth section of the Judiciary Act of
this State, passed in the year seventeen hundred and m°nety—nine, so
far as relates to the notices provided for in said section; and to
pracribe the anode of issuing scire jizcias, in certain cases therein
prot-idedfor.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 142.

54. Ste. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of
this Act, that the time allowed for the service of notices requiring
the production of books, papers, or other writings, to be used as evidence upon the trial of any cause cognizable before the Superior or
Inferior Courts of this State, as provided for in ‘the sixth section of
the Judiciary Act of seventeen hundred and ninety-nine, shall be as
follows, to wit: if the party notified reside inthe County where said
suit is pending, shall be ten days; if out of said County and not
more than one hundred miles distant, fifteen days ; if over one hun-4
dred miles and less than two hundred. twenty days; if two hundred
miles or more, or beyond the limits of this State, sixty days.

55. Sec. II. In case of the service of any notice as aforesaid,
where it shall be made clearly and satisfactorily to appear to the‘
Court before which the cause is pending, that the party notified has
used due and proper diligence, but cannot respond to said notice, that
it shall be continued at the instance of the parties notified.

Sec. III. [As to sci. fa. to make parties, see “ Commencement,"
&c. Sulfa. sec. 76.]

Sec. IV. [Repealing clause]

An Act to authorize parties to compel discoveries at Common Law.
' Approved Dec. 17, 1847. Pam. 197.

56. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of ,
this Act, that any party plaintifff or defendant in any action,"" at Com-3
mon Law, pending in any Superior or Inferior Court of this State,‘
wishing a discovery from the adverse party, to be used in evidence
at the trial of such action, may file written interrogatories to such]
party, and call upon him to answer the same in solemn form, on oath
or atiirrnation; and if, upon such interrogatories being £led, it shall
appear to the Court, by the oath of the party filing the same, or
otherwise, that answers to such interrogatories will be material‘ evi-*
dence in the cause, and that the interrogatories themselves are pertinent, and such as the adverse party would be bound to answer upon a bill of discovery in a Court of Chancery, the Court shall allow
such interrogatories, and shall make an order,'|' requiring the adverse
party to answer the same in writing, and in solemn form, on his oath

or aHirmation;‘ and the answer to such interrogatories, being so
given and filed,’ shall be evidence at the trial of the cause, in the
same manner, and to_ the same purpose and extent, and upon the
same condition, in all respects, as if the same had been procured upon a bill in Chancery for discovery, but no further or otherwise.
And if the party to whom interrogatories shall be so propounded, and
who shall be so required by the Court to answer the same, shall in
sixty .days after notice and copy of such interrogatories served on
him, fail to make answer in manner aforesaid, or shall answer the
same evasively* the Court may attach him and compel him to answer
in open Court, or it may continue the cause, and require more direct

Land explicit answers ; or if the party to whom such interrogatories
‘shall be propounded, be defendant in the action, it may set aside his

plea or pleas, and give judgment against him by default; ‘or, if the
plaintifff, may order his suit to be dismissed with cost ; as shall in
the discretion of the Court, be deemed most just and proper; Pravided, That nothing in this Act contained shall preclude any party
to such action from exhibiting his bill in Chancery for discovery
touching the same matters.

An Act amendatory of an Act assented to an the 17th December,
1847, entitled an Act to authorize parties to compel discoveries at

Common Law.—Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 151.

57'. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
‘this Act, whenever any party plaintifff or defendant in any action at
Common Law pending in any Superior or Inferior Court of this State,
shall wish to avail himself or herself of the provisions of the ‘Act assented to on the 17th December, 1847, entitled “an Act to authorize
parties to compel discoveries at Common Law,” it shall and may be
lawful for such party to make out and present his or her interrogatories to the Court in whiclr such action is or may be pending, to the
Judge of the Superior Court on a Justice of the Interior Court in vacation, and when such interrogatories are presented in vacation,
and are allowed by such Judge or Justice, the said Judge or
Justice shall make and grant an order requiring the adverse party to
answer the same in writing in solemn form on oath or affirmation,
which order, together with said interrogatories shall be returned to
the Clerk of the Court in which such action is pending, and shall be
filed in his office, and the said order shall be as good and elfectual to
compel the discovery sought for as if the same had been granted in
Court--any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstandingslx
58.. SEC. II. When the plaintifff in any cause shall reside out of
the County in which the action may be pending, a service of a copy

o’said interrogatories and order upon the attorney of the plaintifff
shall be sufficient service on suchplaintifff.

59. Sec. III. The provisions of the Act amended by this Act}
8.111 of this Act shall be applicable to the Court of Common Pleas of
the City of Augusta and to the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer
and Terminer of the City of Savannah. 60. Sec. IV. Where it shall be made to appear to the Court that '
the time allowed for the answer to the interrogatories to come in shall‘
from any cause not be sufdcient, the Court may allow such further
time as the circumstances of the case may require.

2. EQUITY TURISDICTION AND PRACTICE.‘ &c. 61. Equity Jurisdiction. Sec. 85. Service by publication.
" 62. Perpctuating testimony. " 66. Decree for specitic performance.
“ 63. Sanctioning of bills. “ 67. Production of books and papers.

“ 6%. Bill by one distributes.

Judiciary Act ¢y' 16th Feb. 17'99.—[For Act in full, see Appendix.]

61. Sec. LIII.1' The Superior Courts in the several Counties shall:
exercise the powers of a Court of Equity, in all cases where a Com~:
mon Law remedy is not adequate‘ to compel parties in any cause to,
discover on oath all requisite points necessary to the investigation of '
truth and justice, to discover transactions between copartuers and co-,
executors, to compel distribution of intestate estates, and payment of legacies, to discover fraudulent transactions I or the ben&1i§0»fQ1‘6.ditors,f
and the proceedings in all such cases, shall be by  and such other
proceedings as are usual in such cases, until the’ setting down of the
cause for trialj; and the Courts shall order the proceedings in such.
manner as that the same shall be ready for trial at furthest, at,  third:
term from the filing such bill inclusive, unless very special cause be
shown to induce the Court to continue the same, which shall not'
extend to more than four terms; and all such bills shall be read and
sanctioned by one of the Judges§ and 3. copy thereof served“ on the
opposite party at least thirty days before the filing of such bill in

Court ;‘ and the party against whom such bill shall be filed, shall appear and answer to the same at the next Court ;’ and if he, she, or
they shall fail to do so, the facts in the said bill shall be taken pro
confesso, and the Court may proceed to decree’ as to. justice shall
appertain.

V 62. Sec. LIX. gThe first part of this section directing the annual convention of the udges, repealed, Vol. II. 38, and in part re-enacted in 1821. See sec. 42.] And the said Judges, or any of them,
shall have power to perpetuate testimony on such terms and in such
manner as is usually practised in Courts of Equity.‘

An Act to repeal a part of an Act, entitled an Act to revive [revise]
and amend the judiciary system of this State passed on the 16th
day of Feb. 1799.—Approved Dec. 24, 1827. Vol. IV. 219.

63. So much of the said above—recited Act as requires the Judges
of the Superior Courts, or one of them, to read and sanction bills in
Equity other than bills of injunction,‘ ne ea:eat1' and quia tamet, be_fore the filing of said bills in Court, shall be, and the same are hereby
repealed.

An Act to authorize any one distributes or person interested in an
estate, to institute proceedings in Equity, without joining as com»plainants, or making respondents, other distributees residing in the
jurisdiction of the Court.——Approved Dec. 29, 1836. Pam. 158.

, 64. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and may be
lawful, for any one distributee, or person interested in any estate, to
institute his or her bill, or other proceeding in Equity, to compel an
account or distribution of an estate, without joining as complainants,
or making respondents, the other distributees, or persons having an
interest in said estate, residing within the jurisdiction of the Court :
Provided, however, it shall be the duty of such complainant, to state in
his or her bill, or other equitable proceeding, the names of all the distributees, or persons having an interest in said estate, that the Court
may be enabled to ascertain the amount of the distributive share, to
which such complainant is entitled, as nearly as practicable.

An Act to regulate the publication of rules, writs, bills, orders, and
precepts of Court, relative to cases in Equity, to _/it the cost thereof, and to amend certain defircts, Q‘c.—Assented to Dec. 29, 1838.
Pam. 168.

65. Sec. 1. When service of any process, writ, bill, order, or
rule of Court, relating to cases in Equity, shall be required to be
made by publication in any of the public gazettes of this State, the
publication of the same as aforesaid, once a month, for four months,
shall be deemed, held, and taken to be su1T1cient,"" and the Clerk
shall receive for such publication, the sum of five dollars.‘

Sec. II. [Defects in process, see “Commencement, doc. Action,”
sec. 73.

Sec. ]III. [Declaration in attachment, see “Attachment,” sec. 52.]

Sec. IV. [Repealing clause.]

An Act regulating proceedings in Equitg/.—Assented to Dec. 23,
1839. Pam. 141.

66. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That when a complaining party,
seeks, through a Court of Equity, the specific performance of an.

agreement to convey land, and a Jury shall find in favor of the
complaining party, it shall be the duty of the Court to cause the description of the land to be set forth in the judgment of the Court,
and signed by the attorney of the complainant, which judgment
shall be entered on the records of the Court, (if for land, and shall
be recorded in the County where the land lies; which ju ment and
decree shall pass the title without any act to be done by the defendant, and such judgment or decree having been recorded, shall be as
effectual to transfer the property as the deed of the defendant; Proaided, that the said judgment or judgments shall not atfect any person except the party or parties to said bill, further than the deed of ,
the defendants would have done, if executed in pursuance of said
decree; and as decisive of the title as if the complainant had recovered in ejectment, and a writ of possession shall issue as in case of

a recovery in ejectment, when the defendant to the bill is in posses-'
sionf

A1 Act to amend an Act entitled an Act “ to amend an Act entitled
an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary system of this State,"
and also to amend an Act entitled “ an Act to alter and amend the
sixth section of the Judiciary Act of this State,” passed in the year

1799, so far as relates to the notices protided for in said sec/2'mz,

and to prescribe the mode of 2'ssm'ng scire facias therein providcd
for.—Approved Jan. 29, 1850. Pam. 273.

I 67. See. I. Be it enacted, That the provisions of the above
‘mentioned Acts* in relation to producing books, writings, papers, &c.
shall extend to causes in Equity in the same manner in every resrcct
as they now extend to and embrace any other causes ; Pzm-filed,
That nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrain the powers of Courts of Equity to effect the same object by other means.

ART. III. ACTION.

1. Co.\1.\n:xcr..\:r::'r—An.x'r1:m;x'r.\xn D1smss.xL—ScIr.\ ro nnxxr: rsnrzns. S ec. 68.
2. BAIL xx L xvii. C.~..sLs. Sec. 84.

3. P.\m'1z2s. Sec. 100.
4. 1’r.r:Am.\'os AND Plm(‘IZF.DI.\‘GS rrzxnixo Acrmx, AND nniuzrx or Axzxnxnxr,

Annxrn.\'rxo:;—.Si:r-on‘, me. Sec. 105.
5. Vi:nD1cr—JL'nc.\u:.\'r—b‘my or ExIiCL"1‘10.\', AND ArrmL. Sec. 131.
6. Nizw TnI.n.s. Sec. 157.
7. (’os'rs IN CIVIL CASES. Sec. 160.
8. EXECUTION-ILLEGALIIY-—SALD AND \\'mr 01-‘ Possession. Sec. 170.

1. comu:Nc1:)IENr, ABATEJIENT AND DISMISSAL or ACTION; SCI. FA. TO
MAKE PARTII-35.1’

Sec. 68. Petition and process. r Sec. 76. Sci. fa. to make parties.
“ (19. Co-obligors and promisors. “ 77. Administrator dc bum}, &c. aparty.
“ 70. Executor and administrator exempt “ 78. F1lin;:—connnencemcnt.

12 months. ‘° 79. Dismissal in vacation.
“ 71. How made parties. “ 80. Senate on corporations.
“ 72. Process served 17 days. “ 81. Service of sci. fa.
“ 73. Proccss—-Judge dyingr. “ 82. Time of issuing.
“ 74. Otlicers of adjoining County. “ 83. Tort-—p_roducing death.

“ 75. 1’rocess—Slieriil‘ aparty.
Judiciary Act of 16th February, 17'99.—[For title, see sec. 37.]

68. Sac. VIII. All suits of a civil nature cognizable in the said
Courts respectively, shall be by petition to the Court, which petition
shall contain the plaintifff ’s charge, allegation or demand’, plainly, fully

and distinctly set forth,“ andbe signed by the plaintifff, or his, her or
their attorney, and to which petition the Clerk shall annex a process,1'
signed by such Clerk, and bear test in the name of one of the
Judges o_r Justices of such Court, directed to the Sheriff, requiring
the defendant or defendants to appear at the Court to which the
same shall be made returnable, and shall be served on the defendant t
or defendtints at least twenty days: before the return thereof, by de-l
livering a copy of such petition and process to the defendant or de->
fezidants, or leaving such copy at his, her, or their most notorious
place or places of residence§ And if any such process shall be
delivered to the Sheriff or other officer, whose duty it shall be to execute the same, so late that it cannot be served in manner aforesaid,
twenty days: before the sitting of the Court to which it shall be return-1
able, such process shall not be executed, but the officer shall return
the same, with the truth of the case. And if any original civil
process shall be taken out within twenty days of the next Court, the
same shall be made returnable to the next Court to be held after the
expiration of the said twenty days, i and 11ot otherwise. And all‘
process issued and returned in any other manner than that hereifibeforei
directed, shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be null and
void.‘-3

Sec. IX. [Re-enacted and amended, sec. 75.]

G‘). Srzc. XI. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in any;
of the said Courts, on any bond, note, or other written obligation, sub—i
scribed by several persons, who ‘ reside in different Counties, the
plaintifff shall have his option to institute his suit in either of the
said Counties, and the Clerk shall issue the original petition and process, and a copy or copies in such County, against the defendant or
defendants who may reside therein, in the manner directed by this Act;
and shall also issue another original, and copy or copies thereof, for
the defendant or defendants, resident _in other County or Counties ; and
it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, to cause
such original and copies to be delivered to the Sheriff or other officer
in such other County or Counties, who shall execute and return the
same to the Court from whence they issued, in such manner as is
hereinbefore directed, and on such return the plaintifff may proceed
as in other cases.

_nxr:cU'roas AND Amrmrs-'rnxrous."

70. Sec. XII. No suit or action shall be issued against any executor or administrator, for any matter or cause against the testator or
intestate of such executor or administrator, in any of the said Courts,
until the expiration of twelve months after probate of the will of
such testator, or letters of administration, granted on the estate of
such intestate.1"

71. And no suit in any of the said Courts shall abate by the death

.'of either party, where such cause of action would in any case survive
to the executor or administrator, whether such cause of action would
survive in the same or any other form, but the same shall proceed
as if such testator or intestate had not died, under the restrictions and
regulations following.” When a plaintifff shall die, in any case aforesaid, the executor or administrator of such plaintiti‘ shall, within three
months after taking out probate of the will, or letters of administra-tion, give notice to the defendant or defendants, by scire facias,I to
issue out of the Clerk’s office, returnable in the manner hereinbefore
prescribed for the issuing and return of process; and in cases where
the defendant shall die, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintiff to
issue ascire facias in manner aforesaid, immediately after the expiration of twelve months, requiring such executor or administrator to
appear and answer to the said cause§

And where a feme sole, being plaintifff, shall marry pending any
suit, the same shall not abate by reason of such intermarriage, but
the same being suggested on the record, such cause shall proceed in

the name of the husband and wife.

An Act for the relief of Shmfs in certain cases—Approved 22d De' cember, 1829. Vol. IV. 408.

Whereas, it is frequently oppressive upon Sheriifs to serve and
return all writs and processes within the time prescribed by law ; for
remedy whereof, ,

72. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passing of
this Act, it shall not be necessary, as heretofore, for the Sheriffs of
this State to serve all writs and processes at Common Law twenty days

before the sitting of the Court to which the same may be made re-1
tumable, but the same may be served and returned seventeen daysg
before the sitting of the Court ;- Provided, nevertheless, that all writs:
and processes shall be copied and issued, as heretofore, twenty days}
before the sitting of the Court to which the same may be made re-j

tumable ; any law, usage, or customto the contrary notwithstandingt J

Alxlct to regulate the Publication of Rules, Writs, Bills, Orders and
Precepts ¢y' Court, relative to cases in Equity, to jir the cost thereof, and to amend certain defects in the Process of Writs, and to
prescribe the time of jilin Declarations in Attachmcnts.—Assentedto, 20th Dec. 1838. am. 168.

Sec. I. [See Art. II. Equity Jurisdiction and Practice, sec. 65.]1

73. Sec. IL When any process or writ shall bear test in the name of}
any Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, who shall have died‘
before the issuing the same, said writ or process shall not abate therefore, but the same shall at any time be amended, on motion, without
delay, or costs. ,

Sec. III. [See “ Attachment,” 6Lc. sec. 52.]

Sec. IV. [Repealing clause.]

1: Act to authorize the Justices of the Inferior Court for the several
Counties of this State, to elect the Clerk of the Court of 0rdinary.—
Assented to, Dec. 21, 1839. Pam. 41.

Secs. ‘1 6:. 11. [See “County Officers,” secs. 69, 70.]

74. Sec. III. And be it further enacted, If any County shall reftne or neglect to elect a Clerk or Sheriif, for sixty days after a vacancy shall have occurred in either of said offices, that suitors
and plaintifffs may apply to any Clerk or Sheritf of an adjoining
County, and have the required duty performed by them, or either of
them, in the same manner as a Clerk or Sheriff in said County
might have done.

Sec. IV. All Acts or parts of Acts militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the 9th Sec. of the Judiciary Act of 1799,
and the 1st Sec. of an Act relative to E'.'t'ccutions, passed Dec. 14,
l8ll.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 113. '

C 75. Sec. 1. All original process hereafter issued by the Clerks of
the Superior and Inferior Courts respectively, where the Sheriff who

ought to execute the same, shall be anywise interested, shall be di-,

rooted to the Coroner of the Cotmty in which said Sheriif may reside, andto the Sheriifs of the adjoining Counties, and shall be serred and returned by the said Coroner, or the Sheriff of any one of

such adjoining Counties, at the option of the plaintifff, within such.
time and in such manner as required by law in other cases?

An Act to alter and amend the 6th sec. c§‘c., and to prescribe the
mode of issuing scirefacias in certain cases thqrein provided for.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 142. '
Secs. I (‘K3 II.

tion,” sees. 54, 55.
76. Sec. III. All scire facias hereafter to be issued for the purpose of making parties to any suit at Law or Equity pending in the

Superior or Inferior Courts of this State, shall be issued by the Clerk

of said Court; in which it shall be sufficient for said Clerk to state

the names of the parties, the term of the Court to which said case
was made returnable, and the name of the suit or action re-.1uiriug
the party to appear and show cause why he should not be made party to said cause, without setting forth the substance of the bill or
declaration, or the proceedings had thereon, as heretofore practised.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against the provisions of this Act, be, and the same are hereby repealed.

[As to notice to produce papers, see “ Jurisdic-.

An Act to amend the twelfth section of an Act entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary system of this State, approved
February 16, 1799.—Assented to Dec. 18, 1843. Pam. 121.

77’. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
passage of this Act, in allcases where an executor or administrator
may be dismissed before final administration, it shall and may be
lawful to commence suit against the succeeding executor or administrator for any matter or cause of action against the testator or intestate of such executor or administrator, in the several Courts of
Law and Equity in this State ; Provided, twelve months shall have
expired after the probate of the will of the testator or the date of
the first letters of administration.

An Art to define and determine what slage of a suit at Law shall be

regarded the commencement 0faction.—Assented to Dec. 23, 1343.
Pam. 126.

Whereas, coniiicting opinions exist in the different judicial circuits of this State in reference to what stage in the progress of a
suit at Law, is the commencement of action, '

7' 8. See. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That from and after the
passage of this Act, the filing of the writ in office shall be regarded
and considered the commencement of action; Provided, it shall he
the duty of the Clerk to enter on the declaration the time when said

declaration is filed in office; to which entry said Clerk shall sign his
name.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
he, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to enable parties plaintff in suits commenced in the Superior
and I nfcrior and other Courts of this Stu/c, to dismiss their actions
d-uring the vacation of said Courts, on the some terms they are

now u.ut/zorizcd to d2's-miss actions at the reg-ular terms of said
Courts.—Assented to Dec. 23, 1843. Pam. 122.

79. SEC. I. TVlzereo.s, inconvenience and delay frequently occur
by reason that parties plaintifff who commenced suits in the Superior
or Interior and other Courts of this State, cannot dismiss their actions
except at the regular terms of said Courts,

Be it tlzerefore enacted, That from and after the passage of this
Act, parties plaintifff who have commenced. or may hereafter com-lg

mence suits in the Superior or Inferior and other Courts of this
State be, and they are hereby authorized to dismiss‘ their actions
during the vacation of said Courts, on the same terms they are now
authorized to dismiss actions at the regular terms of said Courts.
Provided, that such dismissal shall be first entered on the docket by
the Clerk of the Court in which said suit may be pending, during
the vacation of said Court.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to provide for the serv-z°ce of origiwzal process upon Corporatz'ons.—Approved Dec. 27, 1845. Pam. 40.

80. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act,‘
service of all bills, subpoanas, writs, attachments, and other original,
process necessary to the commencement of any suit against any cor-poration in any Court of Law or Equity in this State may be executed by leaving the same at the place of transacting the usual and
ordinary public business of said corporation, if any such place of
business there shall be within the jurisdiction of the Court in which
mid suit may or shall be commenced ; and if any corporation shall
not have any such place for the transaction of its usual and ordinary
public business, then by leaving the same at its last notorious place
of transacting its said business, and publishing a copy of said subptena, attachment or other original process, in one of the public ga-A
zettes of this State for the space of three months ; and any copy of ,
the newspaper containing said publication shall be received in all the’,
Courts of this State as sufficient evidence of such service.”“

An Act to amend the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of seventeen
hundred and ninety-m'ne.—Approved Dec. 27, 1845. Pam. 40.

Whereas, it sometimes happens that in cases where scire facias
has been sued out against several parties, the same cannot be returned
served upon all said parties by reason of one or more of them having removed out of the County in which the suit was pending, or
out of the State; and whereas, there are conflicting decisions in the
Courts of this State as to the time within which scire facias should
be sued out to make the legal representative or representatives of deceased plaintid, parties. For remedy whereof8l. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That in cases where there are several parties to be served with scirefacias, and any one or more of them

preside out of the State or County in which the suit is pending, a service upon those residing in the County where the suit is pending,
and a return that the others are not to be found, shall be held and

considered a sufficient service and return to authorize the making of

the representative or representatives of such deceased plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be, a party or parties, so as to authorize the
original suit in the name of the parties so made, to proceed to trial
and judgment as though all such parties had been served with scire
facias.

82. Sec. H. In all cases where the representative or representa'tives of a deceased plaintifff are to be made parties by scire facias,
the same shall issue within such time as the presiding Judge shall
deem to be reasonable, under the circumstances, and the presiding
Judge shall in all cases have power and authority to give such time
for the issuing and service of scire facias to make parties, as in his
opinion may be necessary to promote the ends of justice.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed. .

An Act to authorize certain actions at Law.—Approved Feb. 23,
1850. Pam. 272.

83. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That in all cases hereafter where
death shall ensue from or under circumstances which would entitle
the deceased, if death had not ensued, to an action against the perpetrator of the injury, the legal representative of such deceased shall
be entitled to have and maintain an action at Law against the person
committing the act from which the death has resulted—-one-half of
the recovery to be paid to the wife and children, or the husband of
the deceased, if any, in case of his or her estate being insolvent.

2. BAIL IN crvn. cases.‘

See. 84. Amdnvit for Bail. Sec. 92. ‘I3-ia1—-several defendants.

" 85. SheriE’s duty—1iabi1ity. “ 93. Jail of adjoining County.

“ 86.  vs. Bail. “ 94. Jai1ers' dnty—seourity.

" 87. Arrest of itinerant. “ 96. Bail in trover.

“ 88. Bail pend. lite. " 96. Bail by agent or attorney.

'- 89. Process and copy. “ 97. Attachment and Bail on Sabbath.
“ 90. Time of execution. “ 98. Bond payable to plaintid.

“ 91. Proceedings on arrest. “ 99. Bail for debts not due.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. 1. 292.

84. Sec. XIII. In all cases where bail is requirable, and the,‘
plaintifff in any action shall require bail, such plaintifff-1' shall make;
affidavit before any Judge, Justice of the Inferior Court, or Justice
of the Peace within this State, orany Judge or Justice of a Superior
Court of any one of the United States, shall have annexed thereto
the seal of the State from whence it shall come, and a certificate of
the Governor certifying that the person taking such affidavit is one
of the Judges or Justices of a Superior Court of that State, of the
amount claimed by him,:[‘ and that he has reason to apprehend the:
loss of the said sum, or some part thereof, if the defendant or de-]
fendants is or are not held to bail, which affidavit shall be filed in‘
the Clerk’s office, and copies thereof affixed to the original petition
and process, and to the copy or copies thereof, and the amount sworn
to shall be endorsed on the petition and process. ‘

85. Sec. XIV. When any civil process shall issue out of any of 1
the said Courts, whereby bail shall be required to be taken in manner:
aforesaid of any person or persons to answer any action in any of j
the said Courts, the Sheriff or other officer shall take a bond§° with
one or more sufficient security or securities, for double thesum sworn?
to, and shall return such bond, with the petition and process; and in‘
case the Sheriff or other officer shall fail or neglect to take such bail,
or the bail taken shall be deemed insufficient by the Court, on exceptions taken thereto, and entry thereof made at‘ the first term to
which the said petition and process shall be returned, such Sheriff or
other officer, and his or their security or securities, in either of the
mid cases, shall be deemed and stand as special bail, and the plaintid
may proceed to judgment according to the provisions of the Act
hereinafter mentioned. And in all cases where any defendant or‘
defendants, of whom bail shall be required, shall refuse to give good:
and sufficient bail, it shall be the duty of such Sheriff or other officer

to commit such defendant or defendants to the common jail of the
County, or if there should be no jail in the County, or the same shall
be insufficient, it shall and may be lawful for the said Sheriff or
other oliicer to confine such defendant or defendants in some private
thouse;"" Nevertheless, such person or persons shall be allowed all
the benefits of appearance and defense as if he, she, or they were
personally present, and shall not be discharged out of custody, but
by putting in bail, or by order of Court.
. 86.’ Sec. XV. All bail taken according to the directions of this
‘Act, shall be deemed, held, and taken as special bail, and as such be
liable to the recovery of the plaintifff; but the plaintifff, after final
judgment, shall not take out execution against such bail, until a eapius
ad satisfaciendum shall be first issued thereon, and the principal cannot be found, and shall also issue a scire facias returnable to the
said Court, which shall be served on the bail at least twenty days
before the return thereof ;‘ and after the return of such cap1'asadsuu°sfaciendum against the principal, and scirefacius against the bail, and judgment thereon, execution may issue against the principal and bail, or
either of them, or either of their estates, unless the bail shall surrender the principal at or before entering up final judgment on the
scire faeias,” either in open Court in term time,’ or to the Sheriff of
the County in which such principal shall reside, at any time in vacation; and it shall be the duty of the Court to order such principal
into the custody of the Sheriff, and the duty of the Sheriff in time
of vacation to receive into his custody such principal, and in either
case to commit him, her, or them to jail, according to the directions
of this Act, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstandmg.
Sac. XVI. [Directing the proceedings on sci. fa. against bail,
repealed by Act of 1801, sec. 3. See Vol. II. 38.]1'

I

An Act to extend the powers of Shemfs and Constables in certain
cases.—Approved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 162.

87'. Sec. 1. It shall be lawful for Sheriifs in all cases where a
bail or criminal process is placed in their hands, and the person
against whom it may be, is moving about from one County to another, for the said Sheriff or his deputy to follow the said person or
persons into any County in this State, and serve the said process.

Sec. II. [“ Justices of the Peace,” sec. 32.]

Sec. III. [See “County Oflicers,” sec. 28.]

An Act to amend the Judz'cz°ary Law of this State, passed the 16th
day of Feb., in the year 1799, so far as to authorize the issuing
of Bail process in certain cases.—Approved Nov. 8, 1820. Vol.
IV. 200.

Whereas, great inconvenience has resulted for the want of a lawn
authorizing plaintifffs pending actions to hold the defendant to bail ;
for remedy whereof,

88. Be it enacted, That in cases where an action is commenced
and pending, or where an action may hereafter be commenced, and ;
no bail shall have been required at the commencement of said action,
or having been required and has or may be discharged, and the
plaintiffff in any such action pending the same shall require bail, such
plaiutilf shall make affidavit before any Judge, Justice of the Interior;
Court, or Justice of the Peace within this State; or any Judge or
Justice of a Superior Court of any one of the United States, shall
have annexed thereto the seal of the State from whence it shall
come, and a certificate of the Governor, certifying that the person
taking such affidavit is one of the Judges or Justices of a Superior
Court of that State, of the amount claimed by him,‘ and that he has
remon to apprehend the loss of the said sum, or some part thereof,
if the defendant or defendants is or are not held to bail ; which affidavits shall be filed in the Clerk’s office of the Court in which
such action is pending, and a copy or copies thereof atlixed to the
process to be issued by the Clerk of said Court in which such suit
may be pending, and to the copy or copies of such process, and the
amount sworn to shall be endorsed on such process and the copy or,
copies thereof.’ ‘

89. Sec. II. When any such affidavit is made and filed in the
Clerk’s office of the Court in which such suit is or may be pending,
the Clerk thereof shall immediately issue a process in the case, with
as many copies as there are defendants, annexing a copy of said afIidavit to each process and copy process, and which process shall be
made returnable to the next term of said Court after the issuing of
the same, and shall be executed and retumed into Court by the Sheriff, his deputy, or other proper olhcer, and when so executed and retumed shall be taken and considered a part of the record in said
case.

90. Sec. III. When the said process, and copy affidavit and copy;
process, shall issue as aforesaid, they shall be delivered to the Sheriff
or other proper officer, who shall be bound to execute the same at
anytime before the sitting of the Court to which the said process
may be made returnable, under the same directions and provisions as

1:778 pointed out in and by the said Judiciary Act, passed in the year
99.

r

91. Sec. IV. All and every defendant or defendants, when ar'rested by virtue of said process, shall be dealt with by the officer

arresting him, her, or them, in the same manner as would have been

‘done had such defendant or defendants been arrested at the commencement of said action on bail process; and shall be discharged
from said arrest in no other manner than he, she, or they could, in
case such arrest had been made on bail process at the commencement of said suit; and all bail taken according to the directions and
under the provisions of this Act, shall be held bound and liable in
the same manner he, she, or they would have been bound and liable,
had he, she, or they become bail at the time of the commencement
of said action ; and the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said action shall be,
and are hereby authorized to proceed in the same manner against the
defendant or defendants and bail, or either of them, as is pointed
out in and by the said Judiciary Act passed in the year 1799.

92. Sec. V. The defendant or defendants so held to bail, in
manner heretofore pointed out in this Act, shall not by reason thereof
be entitled to any delay or continuance, but the case shall proceed
to trial as though bail had been required and taken at the commencement of the case ; and when there are more defendants than one in
such suit, some of whom reside out of the County in which such
suit is pending, a second original process and copy or copies may

'issue, returnable to the Court in the County in which such suit or

action is or may be pending, which when served by the Sheriff of
the County where such defendant or defendants reside, or by other
proper officer, the said defendant or defendants shall be subject and
liable to the same provisions and restrictions as he, she, or they
would have been had the bail process issued at the commencement
of said case.

An Act requiring Sherijfs and Constables in any of the Counties in
this State not having Jails, to convey to the Jail of an adjoining
County persons by them arrested on a writ of Capias ad Satisfaciendum, or any legal process requiring Bail ; and to require the
Jailers of such Counties, on good and sujicient Security being
given for the Jail Fees, to receive and safely keep such Prisoners.
Approved, Dec. 13, 1820. Vol. IV. 201.

93. The Sheriffs and lawful Constables in any of the Counties of

_this State that are not provided with a jail be, and they are hereby

authorized and required to convey persons arrested by them by virtue of a capias ad satisfacicndum, or other civil process which may
require bail, to the jail of any adjoining County, and to deliver such
person or persons to the keeper of such jail ; Provided, the person
or persons so arrested shall refuse or neglect to give such bail as the
oliicer arresting may be authorized to require.

94. Sec. II. The keepers of such jail shall, and they are hereby
authorized and req’uired to receive into their care and custody any
person or persons delivered to them in conformity to the preceding
section, and him or them safely keep until they are delivered from

thence according to law, or by direction or request of the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney ; Provided, that the plaintifff, his agent, or at-;
tomey shall give bond with sumcient security to the keeper of I
mch jail, for the jail fees and weekly maintenance of the person
or persons so delivered to him for safe keeping.‘

An Act more efectually to quiet and protect the possession of personal

property, and to prevent talczng possession by fraud or violence.
Approved Dec. 25, 1821. Vol. IV. 207.

Sec. 1. [See “ Possessory Warrant,” sec. 429.]
95. Sec. II. When any person who is about to commence an}
action or suit at Law or in Equity for the recovery of negroes or
other personal property, such person, his agent or attorney, shall make
atiidavit, that he hath reason to apprehend that the said negroes or
other personal property have been or will be eloigned, or removed
away, or will not be forthcoming to answer the judgment, execution,
or decree that shall be made in the case ; and shall also state in his
affidavit the value of the same, and the amount of hire claimed, if
any, and add, that he, she, or they do verily and bona fide claim the
said negroes or other personal property, or some valuable interest
therein; a copy of such affidavit shall be annexed to the petition, bill,
or other process, and the original affidavit filed in the Court whence
such process issues; and it shall be the duty of the Sherilf, his
deputy, or other lawful officer serving such petition, bill, or other
process, to take a recognizance, with good security, in double the
amount sworn to, for the forthcoming of such negroes or other personal property, to answer such judgment, execution, or decree as may
be issued or rendered in the case; and such security shall be bound
for the payment of the eventual condemnation money, and liable to
execution in the same manner as securities upon appeals; and when
such affidavit shall be made during the pendency of any process, a
copy thereof, and of the process or subpoena, shall be served in like
manner by the Sheriff or his deputy, or other lawful odicer, and the
like security taken; and upon the defendant refusing to give such
security, the property shall be seized and taken by the Sheriff or
other lawful officer, and delivered over to the plaintifff or complainant, his agent, or attorney, entering into a like recogisance, with security ;‘ and if such property is not produced or forthcoming to be
seized and taken by such Sheriff or other lawful officer, the defendInt or defendants shall be committed to jail, to be kept in safe and
close custody until the same is produced, or until he, she, or they
shall enter security for the eventual condemnation money, in the nature of security upon appeal.

An Act to amend the Judiciary Law of 1799, in relation to bail, and
also to amend an Act entitled “ an Act to amend the Judiciary Law
of this State, passed the 16th day of February, 1799, so far as to
authorize the issuing of bail process in certain cases,” passed the
8th day of November, 1820, so far as to authorize agents, attorneys in fact or at law, to hold to bail in all civil cases.-Approved
Dec. 26, 1831. Pam. 137.

96. Sec. 1. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and
may be lawful for any agent, attorney in fact or at law, to hold to
bail in all civil cases, and under the same rules and restrictions as are
pointed out in the before recited Acts on that subject.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the issuing, suing, and executing attachment:
on the Sabbath day, in certain cases.—Approved December 20,
1834. Pam. 77.

Whereas, it sometimes happens that persons residing near the lines
of this State, leave the State on the Sabbath day, and thereby place
it out of the power of their creditors to stop them or their property,
to satisfy debts owing by them ; for remedy whereof— 97. Be it enacted, That it shall hereafter be lawful to issue and

-serve attachments and hail processes on the Sabbath day, in the same

manner and under the same rules, regulations, and restrictions as are
now provided for the issuing and serving of the same on other days:
Provided, the person or persons applying for such attachment or bail
process shall, in addition to the oath heretofore required to be taken,
swear that he apprehends the loss of his debt, or some part thereof,
unless said attachment or bail process shall issue on the Sabbath
day.‘

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws that militate against this Act
are hereby repealed.

An Act to define the mode of taking bond in cases of Bail in this
State.—Assented to Nov. 24, 1841. Pam. 145.

98. Sec. I. From and after the passage of this Act all bonds

taken in cases of bail in this State shall be taken payable to the
plaintifff in the cause, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

«An Act in relation to proceedings to recover debts not clu'e.—i-Approved
- December 27,1845. Pam. 37.

99. Sec. 1. “;v"Vhen a debt is Pnotdue, and the debtor is about to

remove, or is removing without the limits of this State, and oath
being made by the creditor, his agent or attorney in fact, or at law,
of the amount of the debt to become due, and that the debtor
is about to remove, or is removing without the limits of this State,
and that he has reason to apprehend the loss of said debt, or some
tart thereof, if the debtor be not held to bail, it shall and may be
lawful tor the creditor to commence an action or suit at law, and
hold said debtor to bail, in the same way and manner, and under the
sane restrictions as where an affidavit is made under existing laws ;
and the bail so taken shall in like manner be liable to the creditors:
Pmvided. always, that judgment shall not be rendered in any such
cause until after the debt has become due.

3. un'r1r:s.""

Sec. 100. Co-obiigor and Representative 9c-c. 103. Service on Joint Contractor,
“ 101. bureties on Bond and Principal. “ 104:. Etfect of Judgment.
“ 102. Execution, how issued...

An :ir.‘lpm'Iz!1'ng out the mode of collc-cting a certain description of
debts therein men:-font-cI.——Approved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 338.

100. From and immediately after the passing; of‘ this Act, where,
my person shall be in possession (either in his own right, or in any:
other capacity,) of any note, bill, bond, or other obligation in wri-.i
ting, signed by two or more persons, and one or more of the persons,f
whose names are so signed as aforesaid, shall die before t_he payment
of the money or the compliance with the condition of such bond or
other obligation in writing, the person or persons holding such note,
bill, bond, or other obligation in writing, shall not be compelled
as heretofore. to sue the survivor or survivors alone, but may, at his,
her, or their discretion, sue the survivor or survivors, or the representatives of such deceased person or persons, or the survivor or ;survivors
in the same action with the representative or representatives of such
deceased person or persons, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to authorize the bringing of any action, of any kind whatever, against the representative or representatives of any estate orestates, until twelve months after the probate of the will, or the.
granting of letters of administration on such estate or estates.‘

An Act to authorize suits to be instituted against securities to Executors’, Administrators’ and Guardians’ Bonds, in the same action with the principal thereto.—Approved Dec. 13, 1820. Vol.
IV. 200.

Whereas, it is has been decided by the Superior Courts of this
State, that suit cannot be instituted against any security or securities
to any executor’s, admimstrator’s, or gua.rdian’s bond, until the principal or principals to such bond shall have been sued to insolvency,
whereby great injury to the interest of heirs, distributees, and others
may accrue; for remedy whereof,

101. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of

this Act, any and all security or securities to any executor’s, administrator’s, or guardian’s bond, shall be considered as joint, or joint
and several obligors (as the case may be) with the principal or principals in said bond, so as to authorize any heir or heirs, distributee
'or distributees,-administrator de bonis non, and others concerned, to
‘sue such principal or principals, and security or securities to such
bond, or either of them in the same action ;‘ Provided always, that
the principal in said bond, if within the limits of this State, shall
be first sued, or shall be sued in the said action with the security or
securities, and shall be distinguished in said action as principal, if
sued as aforesaid; any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

102. Sec. II. In all cases where a judgment shall be obtained,
in conformity to the foregoing section, execution shall issue against

.the principal and his or their security or securities, or such of them
as judgment may have been obtained against, which execution
shall be levied on‘the property of the principal first; and in case
such property should be insufficient to satisfy said execution, or in
case no property can be found within the County where such execution shall issue, the balance or whole of such execution, as the
case may be, shall be levied on and collected out of the property of
the security or securities, or either of them; and in all cases
when the amotmt or any part thereof, shall be paid by the security or securities, such security or securities shall have the use and
control of the execution to remunerate him or themselves, as is customary in such cases.‘''‘
Sec. III. This Act shall not extend to bonds heretofore exeouted.

\

An Act to regulate the mode of prosecuting Actions against Contractors and Coparmers, in certain cases.—-Approved, Dec. 18,

. 1820. Vol. IV. 201.

Whereas, doubts have arisen as to the mode of prosecuting actions

against joint contractors and copartners, when one or more cannot
be found, or reside without the limits of this State; for remedy
thereof, 103. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act, 1
that whenever two or more joint contractors, or copartners, are sued:
in the same action, and a service shall be effected on one or moref
of the said joint contractors or copartners, and the Sheriff or other»
uthcer serving the writ, shall return that the other defendant or de-A
fendmts, are not to be found, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff
tipoeeed to judgment and execution against the defendant or defendants who are served with process, in the same manner as if he, she,
cr they were the sole defendant or defendants.‘

104. Sec. II. Judgments soobtained shall bind, and execution
may be levied on the joint or copertnership property, and also the
individual property, real and personal, of the defendant or defendants who have been served with a copy of the process, but”

shall not bind or be levied on the individual property of the de-;

fendant or defendants who are not served with process.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws repugnant to this Act, are‘

hereby repealed.

4. rnzmmcs mm raocnnnmes rnnnme THE ACTION, INCLUDING
Axnxnuzn-rs, ARBITRATION, conrrmvsncns, 8:c.1'

Set. 105. Defenees—-amendment. Sec. 118. Suit by former defendant.
“ 10-3. Default-—trial.—continuauce. “ 119. Partial failure of consideration.
“ 107. Set-off. “ 120. Form of suit for land.

“ 108. Arbitration and award. “ 121. Suit for personalty.

“ 109. Amendments. “ 122. Suit on note, Sac.

“ U0. Special pleading—non.suit. " 123. Action on account.

" Ill. Coiitrndictory pleas. “ 124. On judgment.

“ 112. Infant co-obligor. “ 126. Formal variance.

“ 113. Increase of personalty. “ 123. Arabic numerals.

“ 114. May be recovered. “ 127. Action for slander.

“ 115. Mesne profits. “ 128. General form of pleading.
“ 116. Execution therefore. “ 129. Mianoiuer amended.

H

117. No separate action. “ 130. Non-joinder amended.

Judiciary Act of 16th Feb. l799.—Vol. I. 292. [For title, see sec.37.]

105. Sec. ‘IX. And for the more orderly and regular proceeding
in the said Courts, the following rules and methods shall be observed,
to wit: The defendant or defendants shall appear -at the Court to
which the petition and process"" shall be returnable, and on or before the
laet day of the said Court shall make his, her, or their defense or
answer in writing, which shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth
the cause of his defense‘ and be signed by the party making the
same, or his, her, or their attorney; which said answer may contain
as many severa‘. matters, as such defendant or defendants may think

:necessary for his, her, or their defense; Provided, that no person
tshall be permitted to deny any deed, bond, bill, single or penal note,
draft, receipt, or order, unless he’, she, or they shall make affidavit of
the truth of such answer at the time of filing the same.1" And the
said petition and answer shall be sufficient to carry the same to the
Jury, without any replication or other course of proceedings ;“ and no
«petition, answer, return process, judgment, or other proceeding in
}.any civil cause, shall be abated, arrested, quashed or reversed, for
,any defect in matter of form, or for any clerical mistake or omis°sion, not affecting the real merits of the cause ;“ but the Court, on
motion, shall cause the same to be amended without any additional
cost at the first termi and shall proceed to give judgment according
to the right of the cause and matter of law, as it shall appear to the
said Court, without regard to such imperfections, in matter of form,
-clerical mistake or omission; and no dilatory answer shall be received or admitted, unless affidavit be made of the truth thereof§5
' 106. Sec. X. Where any defendant shall fail to appear and answer in manner aforesaid, the Court on motion of the plaintiti‘ or his
counsel, shall enter a judgment by default, and the plaintitl"s claim,
allegation or demand, shall be tried in all cases of judgment by default, by a Jury; but no such trial shall in any case be had at the
3ll1'Sl. term; and no cause whatsoever depending in the said Courts

shall be continued more than one term, at the instance of the same

my-’

SETS-OFF.

107. Sec. XXIV. In’ all cases of mutual debts and sets-off, where.

the Jury shall find a balance for the defendant, such defendant may
and shall enter up judgment for the amount, and take out execution
in such manner as plaintiffs may do by this Act: Provided, such defendant shall at the time of tiling his answer, also file therewith a
true copy or copies of the subject matter of such sets-off ; and
where the plaintifff shall be indebted to the defendant on open account for dealings between themselves, and where the defendant
shall hold and possess in his own right, by assignment, indorsement,
or otherwise, according to law, any bond, note, bill, or other writing,
for money, or other thing of the said plainti1l"s, such defendant shall

and may offer the same as sets-off, and on due proof, shall be allowed
the same!’

um1'rn.rrrox.1'

108. Sec. XXX. In all matters submitted to reference by parties, in asuit under a rule of Court or other agreement in writing,
signed by the parties, judgment shall be entered up by the party in
whose favor the award is given, and execution shall issue for the
sums awarded, to be paid as they respectively become due, and to
belevied on the property of the party against whom the judgment
shall have been entered up, and such other proceedings shall be had
thereon by the Court, as in cases of judgments entered up on verdicts of Juries: Provided, that no judgment shall be entered upon

an award, where it shall appear any other cause or causes stand on’

the docket of the Court against the defendant or defendants, undetermined, before the canse in which a rule or other agreement in
writing for arbitration is entered. '

An Ad to arpluirz and to enforce the J urliciar-y Art of 1799, as respects special pleadings in the several Courts q/'Lqw in this State.Approved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 384.

IVhereas, the said Judiciary was intended for the purpose of
bringing parties litigant to a speedy Judicial decision, without delay,

and with as little costs as practicable, and it was thereby intended:
that the small omissions of parties, Clerks,‘ or Sheriffs, not affecting
the real merits of the cause, should in all cases (substantially set
out) be amended on motion, without delay or costs, and it having
grown into practice in said Courts to give or grant a term, and sometimes nonsuit,for the smallest omissions of the officers of the said Courts,

and as a further increase of the said practice may lead us back to all °

that tedious and expensive labyrinth of special pleadings, which
the said Judiciary intended to avoid;
109. Sac. I. Be it enacted, 6%-. That in every case where
there is a good and legal cause of action, plainly and distinctly set
. forth in the petition, and there is in substance a copy served on the
defendant or defendants, or left at their most notorious place of
abode, every other objection shall be, on motion, amended without
delay or additional costs.
110. Sec. II. No special pleadings shall be introduced or admit'ted in either the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State,’ (other'
than in Equity,) which shall be conducted in the same manner
as is already pointed out by the Judiciary system of this State now
in force, and that every case shall be carried to the Jury, and tried
upon the petition, process, and answer alone, without regard to the
practice, now grown into use in the several Courts of Law in this
State: and no nonsuit shall be awarded when the cause of action is
substantially set forth in the declaration, for any formal variance between the allegafon and proof.”"3
} 111. Sac. III. No part of an answer shall be stricken out or rejected on account of being contradictory to another part of the same
answer, but the Court shall be bound to suffer the whole answer to
remain, if the defendant should desire it, and avail himself of any
advantage he can or may have under either or the whole of the said
answer, and proceed to trial accordingly.

An Act more efectually to protect the interests of parties plaintiffs,

in suits commenced againstjoint obligors or promz'sers.—Approved December 19,1823. Vol. IV. 212.

r 112. In all cases which hereafter may be commenced against
joint obligors or promisers, and any one or more of the parties defendants may plead infancy, and such plea be sustained, the action
shall not as heretofore abate, but the Court shall award judgment as
in cases of nonsuit in favor of the party or parties so pleading, and
permit the plaintifff to proceed against the other defendant or defendants to said suit, without further delay or costs.1'

An Act to facilitate the recovery of Personal Property in certain
cases.—-Approved Dec. 24,1827. Vol. IV. 221.

113. Whereas, it frequently happens that suits in the different
Courts of Law and Equity in this State for personal property continue for a number of years, and that after the commencement and
before the end of said suits the property in dispute increases, or has
issue which cannot be recovered in any other way than by resorting to a new action ; for remedy whereof,

114. Be it enacted, That while any suit or action is now pend-I
ing, or may hereafter be instituted in any Court of Law or Equity}
in this State for personal property, the issue of said property born or}
tube born after the commencement of said suit or action, shall and]
may be recovered in the said suit or action ; and it shall be the duty:
of the Court to allow the declaration or bill to be amended at any«
stage of the said suit or action, so as to include the said issue so]

born or to be born; any law, usage, or practice to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to authorize Plaz'nt=ifs in Ejcctment to recover such mesne
profits as they may be entitled to in said Action of E jectment by
way o/‘damages, and to prevent a separate action for mesne profits.
Approved Dec. 19,1834. Pam. 78.

115. See. I. It shall be lawful for all plaintifffs in ejectment to

add a count or counts in their writ of ejectment, and to submit evi- 1
deuce to the Jury, and to recover by way of damages all such sum 3
or sums of money to which they may be entitled by way of mesne ‘
profits, together with the premises in dispute.

116. Sec. II. It shall be the duty of the several Clerks of the‘
Superior Courts to incorporate in the execution of Imbere fucias
posscssiouem a clause directing the Sheriff to collect all such sums of ;
money as, by the finding of the Jury, shall have been awarded to
the plaintifff in ejectment as mesne profits.

117. Sec. III. No plaintifff or plaintifffs in ejectment, in cases
which may hereafter be instituted, shall be permitted to have and
maintain a separate action in their behalf for mesne profits which
have accru_ed, or may accrue, to him or them from the premises in
dispute.

118. Sec. IV. In case an action of ejectment be brought by the
defendant in the first action of ejectment for the premises recovered
Of him, and a verdict obtained in his favor, it shall be lawful for him
to institute an action on the case for such damages as may have
been collected from him as mesne profits in the first action, and under such action it shall be lawful for him to give in evidence the verdict obtained by him in the second action, which shall be deemed

and taken to prevent the judgment obtained in the first action as operating_ an estoppel.

An Act to enable (lqfemlanrs -in Action at Common Law, to gire in
evidence, a partial failureof I/re consideration rfthe contracts upon
wltich such action may be brought.—Approved Dec. 26, 1836.
Pam. 157.

119. See. I. From and after the passage of this Act, whenever
any action or actions shall be commenced at Common Law, founded
,upon any contract or contracts, it shall, and may be lawful, for the
‘defendant or defendants to such action or actions, upon the trial
thereof. to give in evidence to the Jury, that the consideration or considerations, upon which said contract or contracts are, or were founded, have partially failed, any thing in any law or custom to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, that such plea of partial failure
shall only be pleaded in such cases, under such circumstances, and
between such parties, as would now admit and allow the plea of total
failure of consideration: And provided furtlwr, that the plea contemplated by this Act, shall be fully and specially pleaded at the first
term of the Court to which the action may be returnable, and not at

any time thereafter, either at Common Law, or on the appeal.
SEC. 11 [Repeals all conflicting Acts.]

‘An Act to simplify and curtail Pleading: at Law.—Approved Dec.
~ 27, 1847’. Pam. 203.

I 120. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the form of a declaration for the recovery of real estate and
mesne profits, may be as follows, any law, usage or practice to the
contrary notwithstanding, to-wit :’

Gnoncu, g

County. To the Superior Court for said County.

1

The petition of (A. B.) shewcth that (C. D.) of said county, is
in possession of a certain tract of land in said County (here describe
the land) to which your petitioner claims title ; that the said ( C. D.)
has received the profits of said land since the day of ,
18 , of the yearly value of dollars, and refuses to deliver
the said land to your petitioner, or to pay him the profits thereof:
Wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the
said (C. D.) to be and appear at the next Superior Court to be held
in and for said County, to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

I 121. Sec. II. The form of an action for the recovery of personal
property may be’ as follows, to wit:

Gsoaou, .
County To the Court for said County.

The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
in possession of acertain (here describe the property) of the value

of dollars, to which your petitioner claims title; that the

said (C. D.) has enjoyed the profits of the same since ; that
the said is of the yearly value of dollars; and that
the said (C. D.) refuses to deliver said to your petitioner, or

to pay him the profits thereof: Wherefore, your petitioner prays
process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the
next ‘ Court to be held in and for said County, to answer
your petitioner’s complaint.

122. Sec. III. The form of an action to recover money on a
note, bill, bond, receipt or written promise of any description,‘ by:
adding a copy of which, with the endorsers’ names (if any) and
credits, shallbe appended—and when the suit is on a bond, the breach
from which arises the right of action shall be set out plainly--may
beas follows, to-wit:

Gsoaou,
County. To the Court of said County.
The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
indebted to him in the sum of dollars, besides interest,
on :1 dated and due , which said the

said(C. D.)refuses to pay: Wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the
next Court for said County, to answer your petitioner’s
complaint.

Provided, neverthelcss, That when any defendant shall, at the‘
appearance term of such cause, demand oyer of any note, bill, bond,‘
receipt, or other instruments sued on, the plaintifff shall be compelled to produce the same to the defendant for the purpose of examination. ,

123. Sec. IV. The form of an action on an account may be as.
follows, to-wit: '

Gsoacu,
County. To the Court for said County.

' The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County is
indebted to your petitioner dollars, on an account, as will
fully appear by reference to a bill of particulars hereto annexed,
Which account the said (C. D.) neglects to pay : Wherefore, your
petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be
and appear at the next Court to be held for said County,
to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

124. Sec. V. The form of an action to recover money on a
judgment, may be as follows, to-wit:

Gzoacu,

County. § To the Court for said County.

{
I

The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) of said County, is
indebted to your petitioner ‘ _ dollars, besides interest, on a
judgment obtained by your petitioner, against the said (C. D.) at a

(name the Court) Court held on the day of ’
18 , in the (County, district or town) of , in the State
of , as wiil fully appear by reference to an exemplilication
of the proceeding in said case; that the said judgment is unsatisfied,
and that the said (C. D.) neglects to pay the same : Wherefore, your
petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be
and appear at the next Court to be held for the County of
, then and there to answer the plaintifff ’s complaint.

Sec. VI. The form of an action for breach of warranty on a
deed may be as follows, to wit:
Gr-zoneu,

County. é To the Court of said County.

The petition of (A. B.) sheweth that (C. D.) is indebted to him in
the sum of dollars, for this that on the - day of
, 18 , the said (C. D.) executed to your petitioner a warrantee deed to a certain tract of land (describe the land) for the
sum of dollars, paid by your petitioner to the said (C. D. );
that your petitioner has been evicted from said lot of land, and the
said (C. D.) refuses to indemnify your petitioner for his damage in
that behalf: Wherefore, your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said (C. D.) to be and appear at the next
Court for said County, to answer your petitioner’s complaint.
; 125. Sec. VII. No departure from the before prescribed forms
‘shall work anonsuit, provided the plaintifff shall plainly and distinctly set forth his cause"" of action.

126. Sec. VIII. It shall and may be lawful in pleading, to set
out amounts and dates in figures, or what is sometimes called the
Arabic Numerals.

Sec. IX. All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to curtail and simplify C2'z~z'Z Plead2'ngs.—Approved Jan.
29, 1850. Pam. 275.

127. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the form of an action for words may be as follows, to-wit:
GEORGIA,

County. § To the Honorable Court of said County.

The petition of A. B. sheweth that C. D., of said County, has
injured and damaged your petitioner in the sum of dollars,
by falsely and maliciously saying of and concerning your petitioner,
on the day of , 18 , the following false and
malicious words, to-wit: Wherefore your petitioner prays process may issue requiring the said C. D. to be and
appear at the next Court to be held in and for said County,
then and there to answer your petitioner’s complaint.

128. Sec. II. No plaintifff shall be nonsuited for want of form,
who shall set forth his cause of action as plainly and distinctly as
the charge of slander is set forth in the form of declaration by the
tirstseetion of this Act prescribed.

An Act to authorize amendments to be made instanter, in cases of Misaomcr in all Judi;-zal Proceedings, and for other purposcs.-—Approved Feb. 22, 1850. Pam. 44.

129. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, all misnomers made in writs, petitions, bil1s.or other Ju-«
dicial proceedings on the civil side of the Court, shall be amended
and corrected instanter, without working any unnecessary delay to
the party having’ made the same.

130. Sec. II. In suits by or against partners, or when any two;
or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, and the name of i
any person who ought to be joined in such action as plaintifff or defendant is omitted; on ascertaining the same, the omission shall be
amended instanter.

5. VERDICT, JUDGMENT, STAY OF EXECUTION AND APPEAL.‘

Sec. 131. Verdict, judgment, and appea1,‘Sec. 144. Not if paid by defendant.

ac. . 145. Verdict in trover or trespass.

“ 132. Confession of ju ent. “ 146. Lien of plaintifff.

“ 133. Interest on unliqui teddemands. “ 147. Appeal by one of several.

" 134. Lien of judgments. “ 148. Effect of.

“ 135. Renewal on Court roll. “ 149. Sureties’ rights.

“ 136. Lien—effect of appeal. “ 150. Appeal by aupers.

“ 137. Judgments at same term. “ 161. Appeals in quity.

" 138. Bona de purchasers. “ 152. Appeal by Administrators, &c.
" 139. App from Ordinary. “ 153. Sctfa. unnecessary" 140. Dormant judgments. “ 154. Judgment on bonds.

“ 141. Effect of Actof 1822. “ 155. Successive judgments.

" 142. Judgments ua.mretyon appeal. I “ 156. Revival vs. absent defendants.
" 143. Transfer of judgments.

Judiciary Act of 1799.—Vol. 1. 292.

VERDI-CT8 AND JUDGMENTS.

1 131. Sec. XXVI. In all cases where a verdict shall be rendered,
the party in whose favor it may be, shall be allowed to enter an-]
sign judgment thereon at any time within four days after the adjournment of the Court, at the Clerk’s office, for the amount of such verdict and all legal costs recoverable thereon, and no execution shall
issue on any verdict until such judgment shall be entered,
signed by the party or his attorney; and all the property* of
the part.y against whom such verdict shall be entered, shall be bound
from the signing of the first judgment ;’r‘ [but where several judgments shall be of equal date, the first execution delivered to the Sherill’ shall be the first satisfied ;]I Provided always, that any party
against whom such judgment shall be entered, may enter good and
sntlicient security, either in open Court or in the Clerk’s office, within the time aforesaid, for the payment of the judgment and costs
within sixty days; and if such party shall not pay the same agreeably thereto, execution may issue against such party, and the security,
without any other proceeding thereon: And provicled also, that in
case either party shall be dissatisfied with the verdict of the Jury,
then, and in all such cases, either party may, within four days’ after
the adjournment of the Court in which such verdict was obtained,
enter an appeal“ in the Clerk’s office of such Court (as matter of
jriglit ;) and if such verdict shall be obtained in the Inferior Coiirt, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk thereof to transmit such appeal4 to the
Clerk of the Superior Court of the County in which such verdict shall
be obtained, who shall enter the same on the appeal docket, which
appeal§ shall be admitted and tried by a special Jury: Provider], the
person or persons so appealing shall, previous to obtaining such appeal, pay all costs which may have arisen on the former trial, and

give security‘ for the eventual condemnation money" except executors and administrators,“ who shall not be liable to give such security;l' but if, on hearing such appeal, it shall appear to the Jury that

the appeal was frivolous, and intended for delay only, they shall as-5
sess damage to the party aggrieved by such delay, not exceeding }
twe:rty-five per centum on the principal sum which they shall find:
due ; and such damages as shall be so assessed, shall be specially no-1
ticed in the verdicts or such Jurors,“ and no person shall be allowed.
to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entered but by the consent of the parties. And in case of a Jury committing a contempt,

or breaking up before giving in their verdict in any civil case, the

Court may declare the same a mis-trial, and shall tine each of the;
offending Juror or Jurors in a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars. And if any party, plaintifff or defendant, be hereafter nonsuited or cast, by reason of the neglect or misconduct of the attorney,

who shall hereafter bring or be employed in such suit, in all cases.
the said attorney shall pay all costs that may accrue thereby, and the 1
Court shall immediately enter up judgment accordingly for the‘
same.

132. Sec. XXVII. No confession of judgment shall hereafter be‘
entered up, but in the County where the defendant or defendants‘
may reside, or unless the cause hath been regularly sued out and
doclieted in the usual way as in other cases, nor until such cause be
called in order by the Court for trial.‘

133. Sec. XXVIII. No verdict shall be received on any unliqui-i
dated demand where the Jury have increased their verdict on account of interest, nor shall interest be given on any open account, in the]
nature of damages.

Sac. XXIX. [Superseded by Act of 1812.]

An Act to point out a regular and definitive Rule for the Priority of

J udgmeuls, obtained -in the several Courts oftlzis State.—Approved Dec. 13, 1810. Vol. II. 621.

134. Sac. I. From and after the passing of this Act, all judgxments obtained in the Superior, Inferior or Justices’ Courts of this
’State, shall be entitled to the right or claim of any money received
by the Sheriffs, Coroners or Constables, agreeable to the date of such
judgment or judgments, and that all the property belonging to the
defendant or defendants, shall be bound and subject to the dscharge
of the first judgment or judgments, obtained in either of the aforesaid Courts :"" Provided, the demand of such right is made before
any of the aforesaid officers have paid the money over to the plaintifff in interest; any law., usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.‘

Sec. II. [Directing how claims shall be tried inJustices’ Courts.
See Justices of the Peace, sec. 9.] '

An Act explanatory of the several Judiciary Laws of this State.-—
Approvcd Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 382.

135. No part of the Judiciary Laws of this State shall be so
construed as to require the renewal of any judgment as heretofore
practised, or in any other manner whatever.‘|'

An Act to amend the 26th section of the Judiciary Act, passed 16th
day of December, 1799; and also to prevent a fraudulent enforcement of Dormant Judgements.1;—Approved- Dec. 19, 1822. Vol.
IV. 209. ‘

A confrariety of decisions having taken place in the different
circuits in this State as to the time when the property of the party
against whom a judgment is entered shall be bound ; and dormant
judgments, by being collusively kept open, or made the instruments
of fraud on innocent purchasers, and often operate oppressively on
vigilant and bona tide creditors; '

136. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act,
all property of the party against whom a verdict shall be entered and
a judgment signed thereon, in conformity to the provisions of the
twenty-sixth section of said Act of 1799, shall be bound from the
signing of the first judgment, in cases where no appeal is entered;
lbutin cases where an appeal is entered from the first verdict, the
‘property of the party against whom the verdict is rendered shall
[not] be bound except from the signing of the judgment on the appeal, except so far as to prevent the alienation by the party of his,

her, or their" property, between the signing of the first judgment
and the signing of the judgment on the appeal.‘ _ .

137. SEC. II. All judgments signed on verdicts rendered at the
same term of the Court, be considered, held, and taken to be of equal
date; and no execution founded on said judgments, obtained at the
same term as aforesaid, shall be entitled to any preference by reason
of being first placed in the hands of the of’dcer.”“

Sec. III. [Repealed by Act of 1823, see. 147.] . , .

133. SEC. IV. No judgment shall be enforced by the sale of any
real or personal estate which the defendant may have sold and conreyed to a purchaser for a valuable consideration, and without actual notice of such judgment: Provided, such purchaser, or those
claiming under him, by such sale and conveyance, have been in
peaceable possession of such real estate for seven years, and of such
jmsonal estate tour years, before the levy shall have been made
thereon.’

An Act to cause all appeals from the Courts of Ordinary of this
State to be tried and determined by a Special Jury of the County
where the case may happen, touching the Probate of Wills, and
granting Letters of Administration, in which matters If fact are
involved, instead of a decision being had thereon by the Court only.

Approved Dec. 19, 1823. Vol. IV. 213.

Whereas, it has heretofore been the practice in some of the Judicial Circuits of this State for the Judges of the Superior Courts to
hear and determine appeals from the Courts of Ordinary of this
State, touching the probate of wills, and granting letters of administration, in which matters of fact were involved; and it being
the policy of this government to retain the -trial by Jury in all cases
in which matters of fact are involved,

139. Be it therejbre enacted, That from and immediately after
the passing of this Act, all appeals taken up from the decision of the
several Courts of Ordinary of this State to the. Superior Court,
touching the probate of Wills, and granting letters of administration,
in which matters of fact are involved, shall be tried and determined
by a Special,Jury of the County where the case may happen, in the
same way and under the same regulations as other appeals ; any law,
usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.1*

An Act to be entitled an Act to amend the Third Section of an Act
passed 19th day of December, 1822, entitled an Act to amend the
twenty-sixth Section of the Judiciary Act, passed the 16th day of
December, 1799 ; and also to prevent a fraudulent enforcement
of Dormant Judgments.—Approved Dec. 22, 1823. Vol. IV. 214.

140. All judgments that have been obtained since the said 19th
day of December, 1822, and all judgments that may be hereafter
rendered in any of the Courts of this State, on which no execution
'shall be sued out, or which executions, if sued out, no return shall
be made by the proper officer for executing and returning the same
within seven years from the date of the judgment,l shall be void
and of no effect : Provided, that nothing in this Act contained shall
prevent the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such judgments from renewing
the same after the expiration of the said seven years, in cases
where by law he or they would be otherwise entitled so to gido,” but
the lieu of such revived judgments on the property of the defendants
thereto, shall operate only from the time of such revival.
; 141. Sec. II. When any judgment or execution has been de'c1ared void and of no effect by the construction given by any of the
,.Courts to the said third section of said Act, the said judgment and
execution so declared void and of no effect shall, and is hereby denclared to be in as full force and effect as though the said Act had
not been passed.

‘ Sec. III. The said third section of the Act passed on the said
19th day of December, 1822, is hereby repealed.

An Act to define the liability of Securities on Amaeal, on Stay of
Execution, and for protection of Bail, §'c.—ApproVed Dec. 20,
1826. Vol. IV. 216. w

I. 142. Sec. II. In all cases of appeal where security hath been
given, and hereafter given, and hereafter to be tried, it shall and
may be lawful for the plaintifff or his attorney, to enter up judgment
against the principal and the security jointly or severally,” and the
execution shall issue accordingly, and proceed against either or both
at the option of the plaintifff until he is satisfied: Provided nevertheIns, if the execution against the security or securities be first paid
by him or them, then the execution against the principal shall still
be of force and under the control of the security or securities, until
the mine be satisfied by said principal.

[For balance of this Act, see Art. XXI. “ Securities and Indorsers,” sec. 431.]

An Act to authorizethe Assignment and Transfer of Judgment: and
Executions, and to make certain and uni/orm the practice with

regard to the same..—Approved Dec. 22d, 1829. Vol. IV. 225.

143. From and after the passage of this Act,'it shall and may be
lawful for the plaintifff in any judgment or execution to sell or transfer the same by written assignment, or control, and said sale or assignment shall not be considered a discharge or satisfaction of said
execution, but the assignee may proceed to collect the same for his
own use and benefit, in as full and ample a manner as the plaintifff
could have done if no such transfer or assignment had been made.‘

144. Sec. II. Nothing in this Act contained shall be construed
as to authorize the collection of any execution which may have

been paid off by the defendant or his agent, and kept open for the
purpose of defrauding other creditors.

.hAct to prevent Personal Property which is the subject of an Action
of Trespass, or Trover, from vesting in the defendant or def?:ndcuts to such action, byvirtue of a recovery and judgment by the
plaintiff, except so far as to be subject to be sold under the execution, which shall or may issue upon such judgment of the said
plaintiff, obtained by him in the said Action of Trespass, or Trover, and to make such property first liable to the payment of the

damages recovered in said action.—Approved Nov. 25, 1830.
Pam. 122.

145. From and immediately after the passing of this Act, when
averdict for damages,’ shall be found, or rendered in favor of aplain-i
till’, in trover or trespass, and a judgment shall be signed thereon, .
thesaid verdict and judgment shall not have the effect to change
lheproperty, which is the subject matter of the said suit, or action,
or tovest the same, or any part thereof, in the defendant, or defendants, to the said suit, or action of trespass or trover, until after the

damages and costs recovered by the plaintifff in such action, are paid
off and discharged, except so far as to subject the said property to
be sold under and by virtue of an execution, issuing on said judgment, in said action of trespass, or trever, and to make the same liable to the payment of the damages and cost, recovered in said action.

146. Sec. II. No judgment obtained against the said defendant,
to such suit or action of trespass or Cover, prior in point of time to
the said judgment, so obtained by the said plaintifff, in such action
of trespass or trover, shall have any lien or binding force on the said
property, which is the subject matter of such action of trespass er
trever, until after the damages and costs recovered by such verdict,
and judgment of the plaintifff, in such action of trespass or trever,
are first paid eff and-discharged.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws, which militate against this
Act are hereby repealed.

An Act to explain and amend the Judiciary Act of 1799, so far as

concerns the granting of Appeals in certain cases.—Assentcd to
Dec. 23, 1839. Pam. 142.

IVlzerea.s, a centrariety of opinion exists among the Judges of
this State, and adiffcrent practice prevails in the different Judicial
Circuits thereof, touching the granting of appeals under certain circumstances, fer remedy whereof:

147. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, it shall and may be lawful, whenever there shall be more
than one party plaintifff or defendant, and one or more of said parties plaintifff or defendant, desire to appeal, and the other or others
refuse or fail to appeal, it shall and may be lawful for any party
plaintifff or defendant, to enter his appeal, under such rules and regulations as are now provided by la\v.1

148. Sec. 11. Upon the appeal, either of the plaintifff or defendant, as aforesaid, the Whole record shall be taken up, but in case
damages shall or may be awarded upon such appeal, such damages

-shall only be recovered against the party or parties appealing, and

their securities, and not against the party or parties failing or refusing
to appeal.

149. Sec. III. In case any such security or securities shall be
compelled to pay off the debt or damages for which judgment may
be entered, in any cause, he, she or they shall have recourse only

against theparty or parties for whom he, she or they became security er securities.

Sec. IV. [Repealing clause.)

An Act to enable parties, plaintiffs or defendants in any Court of
this State, to appeal, without paying costs and giving security,
as now required by law, on certain conditions herein mentioned ;
and also to enable parties in Justices’ Courts in this State, to obtain certioraries without paying cost and giving security, on cerIain conditions herein .mentioned.—Assented to Dec. 27, 1842.
Pam. 13. A

150. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of

this Act, when any party, plaintifff or defendant in any suit at Law,‘
orin Equity, hereafter to be commenced, ih any of the Courts of “
this State, where the party cast shall be dissatisfied with the decis-'

ion, and shall be unable to pay cost and give security, as now required by law, if such party will make and file an affidavit in writing,
that he or she is advised, and believes that he or she has a good
cause of appeal, and that owing to his or her poverty,‘ he or she is
unable to pay the cost and give security, as now required by law
in cases of an appeal, such pa.rty shall be permitted to appeal without
the payment of cost, and without giving security, as heretofore practised in this State.

Sec. II. [As to certioraries ; see Art. V. “ Certiorari,” dcc.
237.] ,

An Act declaratory of the Law of this State relating to Appeals in
the Superior Courts.—Assented to Dec. 27, 1843. Pam. 123.

151. See. I. Be it enacted, That in all cases hereafter to be
tried in the Superior Courts of this State, on the Equity side thereof, either party who may be dissatisfied with the verdict of the Jury,

:may enter an appeal in like manner and under the same limitations

and conditions as are prescribed in cases at Common Law, which appeal shall be tried by a special Jury under the provisions governing
Common Law cases.”

An Act to authorize parties to enter an Appeal, in certain cases
therein mentioned.—Assented to Dec. 27, 1843. Pam. 124.

152. See. I. Be it enacted, That in all cases hereafter to be tried
in any of the Courts of this State, when either the plaintifff or de'fendant shall hereafter depart this life, after said cause has been tried,
_and before the time has expired, which such party has allowed by

law to enter an appeal, and no appeal shall have been entered, it shall
be the right of the legal representatives of such party dying, to enter
an appeal within four days from the time such executor or administrator shall have been qualified : Provided however, that in the construction of this Act, no appeal may be entered in causes not the

subject matter of appeal.

153. Sec. II. Whenever an appeal shall be entered under this
Act, it shall not be necessary to revive suit under scirefacias; but
suit shall be revived by the party giving notice to the adverse party
within thirty days from the time of appeal; and whenever a defendant shall appeal, said cause shall stand for trial on the appeal
docket, at the first Court after twelve months shall have expired
after such executor or administrator shall have been qualified.

An Act directory of the mode of entering up judgment onojficial
or voluntary bonds.—Approved Dec. 30, 1847. Pam. 201.

154. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from henceforth all judgments
‘rendered against the obligor or obligors of any bond, whether othcial
or voluntary bonds, shall be for the amount of damniiication found
by thegverdict of the Jury, and not for the penalty thereof, as has
been decided in some of the Courts of this State.

155. Sec. II. Until the penalty of said oilicial or voluntary bonds

»has been exhausted by previous recoveries and satisfaction thereof,
’no person aggrieved or injured by the conduct of any one of the

obligors, shall be prohibited from suing said [bond] or bonds, nor
shall any previous recovery thereon be held as a bar to such subsequent suit, until the person pleading it shall prove that recoveries

have been had to the extent of the penalty of such bond: Provided,

nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect any cause heretofore decided.‘

An Act to perfect service of scirefaeias on absent defendants by publication, for the purpose of reviving dormant judgments.—Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam. 272.

156. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, whenever any judgment obtained in any of the Courts of

this State, is or shall become dormant, and the defendant or defendants do or shall reside without the jurisdictional limits of this State,

that said judgment may be revived against said absent defendant or

defendants by such process as is usual in case the defendant or

defendants reside within the State: Provided always, that the!
defendant or defendants be served with a scire facias by pub-'
lication in some public gazette of this State once a month for four

months previous to the term of the Court at which it is intended to

revive said judgment, which service by publication shall be as

effectual in all cases as if the defendant or defendants had been personally served.

Sec. II. All laws andparts of laws militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.

5. NEW TRIALS.

Sec. 157. Errors and new trials. Sec. 159. Tried by special Jury.
“ 168. From trialsby special Jury.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. I. 292.

157 . Snc. LV. The said Superior Courts shall have power to
correct errors and grant new trials in any cause depending in any of
the said Superior Courts, in such manner and under such rules and
regulations as they may establish, and according to law, and the
usages and customs of Courts.‘

Src. LVI. [Oath of the special Jury repealed.]

158. Sec. LVII. In any case which has arisen since the signing of the present Constitution, or which may hereafter arise, of a
verdict of a special Jury being given contrary to evidence and the
principles of jusice and equity, it shall and may be lawful for the
Judge presiding to grant a new trial before another special J ury,»in
the manner prescribed by this Act; Provided, that twenty days’ notice be given by the party applying for such new trial to the adverse
party of his intention, and the grounds of his application.” And the
said Judge shall, in all cases of application for new trials or_correction of errors, enter his opinion on the minutes of the Court- for his
determination on each respective case.*
- 159. Sec. LVIII. All new trials shall be had by a special Jury,
to be taken from the Grand Jury list of the County. [As to the
manner of striking the special Jury, see secs. 302, 307.]‘

An Act to require the Judges of the Superior Courts of this State m
write out and place upon the minutes of said Courts their decisions
in full in all cases of motions for new trials, whether the same be
granted or rejected, and upon all cases of judgment upon writs of
certiorari, mandamus and habeas corpus, and upon all motions in

arrest of judgment, and to provide [for] the collection, publicalizm
and distribution of the same.—A.ssented to 10th December, 1841.
Pam. 132.

[This Act has become obsolete since the establishment of a Supreme Court]

7. costs IN crvn. CASI-38.1’

Sec. 160. Costs in slander cases. l “ 166. Costs on f. fan.
" 161. Attorney‘:-3 liability. “ 166. Payable after judgment
" 162. Verdicts less than $30. “ 167. Act of 1812 re-enacted.
" 163. Absent clients. “ 168. Non—resident Attorneys.
“ 164. Attorney liable. “ 169. When and how collected.

An Act for the limitation of actions and for avoiding suits at, ‘Law.
Approved March 26, 1767’. Vol. I. 33.

[For the other sections of this Act, see Art. XV. “Limitation of
Actions.”]
160. Sec. VIII. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words,
‘to be sued or prosecuted by any person or persons in the General
Court in this province, or in any other Court. having power to hold
plea of the same, after the passing of this Act, if the Jury upon the
trial of the issue in such action, or the Jury that shall inquire of the
damages, do find or assess the damage under forty shillings, then the
plaintifff or plaintifffs in such action shall have and recover only so
much costs as the damages so given or assessed amount unto, without any further increase of the same, any law, statute, custom, or
usage to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding.’

161. Sec. XXVI. “ “. And if any party, plaintifff or defendant,
be hereafter non-suited or cast, by reason of the neglect or misconduct of the Attorney who shall hereafter bring or be employed in
such suit, in all cases the said Attorney shall-pay all costs that may
accrue thereby, and the Court shall immediately enter up judgment
accordingly for the same.""

An Act to amend the XX VII/I. section of the Judiciary Law of this
Sca:c.—Approved Dec. 12, 1809. Vol. II. 5733.

Whereas, a practice has been adopted, and now prevails in some
parts of this State, of bringing suits to the Superior and Ijnferior
Courts for debts which constitutionally are, and by law ought to be
exclusively cognizable in the Justices’ Courts, which practice is injurious and oppressive on many of the good citizens of this State, by
subjecting them to more cost than was contemplated by the Constitution and Judiciary Laws of this State ; for remedy whereof,

162. Be it enacted, (ye. That where any suit shall be brought to
the Superior or Inferior Courts in this State, and the verdict of the
Jury shall be for a sum under $30, the defendant shall not be charged,
with more cost than would have necessarily accrued: Provided, said
recovery had been before a Justice of the Peace ; and the remainder
of the Court charges may be retained out of the sum so recovered;
and if the verdict of the Jury be not of sufficient amount, the plaintill‘ shall be bound to pay the same; Provided, this Act shall not extend to, and govern cases where the demand set forth in the declaration, shall be proven to exceed the sum of $30. Provided, nothing herein contained shall extend to any case sounding in damages.

An Act? to amend and e.1:pla.in the XXI Xtsh section of the Judiciary
Law of this State.—Approved Dec. 7', 1812. Vol. ill. 381.

Whereas, the above-recited section of the Judiciary Law of this.
State is not suflicieiitly explicit to effect the object for which it was
intended,

163. See. I. Be it thereforee enacted, i§°c. That where any attorney shall institute a suit in any of the Courts of this State for and in
behalf of any person or persons who resides or reside out of this State,:*
or out of the County in which the defendant or defendantsmay reside, and in which such suit may be tried, such attorney shall be liable to pay all costs, in case such suit shall be dismissed, or the plain-.
titf or plaintiffs be cast in his, her, or their suit, and it shall be lawful for the Clerk of said Court to issue execution against said attorney or attorneys for the amount of the cost of said suit.

164. Sac. II. Where any attorney shall institute a suit in any of
the Cotmties of this State for any person who resides out of the County in which such suit is brought, and judgment shall be obtained
thereon, and the Sheriff shall return the execution, no property to be
found, that then the plaintifffs attorney shall be bound for the costs
of said suit and the Clerk may issue his execution against the plaintifff and the attorney who brought said suit jointly, for the amount of
the cost of such suit; and if any attorney shall retain in his hands
.any money received by him for-any client, after being by the Court
ordered to pay over the same to the principal, he shall be struck from
the list of attorneys, and never more suffered to plead in any of the

Courts in this State,

An Act to prevent Sherifs, Coroners, Constables, Town and City
Marshals, and all other Ojicers in this State, from retaining costs
on younger judgments, to the prejudice of the rights of older judgment creditors.—Approved Dec. 19, 1822. Vol. IV. 211.

~ 165. When any Sheriff, Coroner, Constable, Town or City Mar-shal, or other officer of this State, has several executions in his hands
"at the same time against the same defendant, it shall not be lawful
for such oiiicer to detain the costs on any younger judgments to the
prejudice of those of older date, except in a case of a younger judgment creditor shall previous to older ones point out property to
the officer; then it may and shall be lawful for the officer to retain
the levy and advertising costs, and no more, on such younger judgmemo

An Act to define the mode in which costs under the Act entitled “An
Act to revise and amend an Act for ascertaining the fees of the
public ojicers of this State, passed 18th Dec. 1792,” shall be taxed and collected in future.—Approved Dec. 20, 1834. Pam. 93.

Whereas, in some Circuits of this State a variety of practice, in relation to the taxation and collection of costs, has obtained under the
above recited Act; for the purpose of rendering the mode uniform and
consistent with the design of the Legislature in said enactment166. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act
suitors shall not be required to pay the Court costs, or any part thereof,
at the several progressive steps or stages of their suits, as has been
required by the decision of some of the Courts; but that the mode
heretofore practised in other Courts, viz. the taxation of the costs
which plaintifffs were supposed to have paid to the entering up of
judgment, in the judgment of the p1aintiffs—be, and the same is
hereby declared to be the true intent and meaning of the Act of 1792
upon this subject; and that the officers of Courts be, and they are
hereby prohibited from demanding or receiving the cost or fees which
the said fees bill or the Acts amendatory thereof prescribes, until after
judgment, and then to be raised by the execution of plaintifffs from

defendants, if enough can be collected for such purpose; if not, then
by afi. fa. or ca sa. issued under the order of the Court first had and
obtained, out of plaintifffs.‘ ’

81:0. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against any of the
provisions or directions of this Act are hereby repealed.

gin Act to continue in force the Act passed on the seventh of December, 1812, entitled “an Act to amend and explain the twenty-ninth
section of the Judiciary Law qf this State,” and to require nonu;

resident Attorneys to pay costs in certain cases commenced by them.
Assented to December 23, 1839. Pam. 144.

'Whereas, it is held, in some of the Judicial Circuits of this State,
that the said Act, so far as the same relates to the liability of attorneys for costs, has been repealed by the Act passed on the twentieth
of December, 1834, entitled “an Act to define the mode in which
cost under the Act entitled “an Act to revise and amend an Act for
ascertaining the feesgof public officers of this State,” passed the 18th
December, 1792, shall be taxed and collected in future,” which repeal was not comtemplated by the Legislature; thereforee167. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That the said first recited Act, he,
and the same is hereby fully re-enacted, and continued in full force. ‘

168. Ste. II It shall and may be lawful for the proper officers to
demand and receive their full costs from any attorney who resides}
out of this State, before they shall be bound to perform any servicei
in any cause commenced by said attorney, where the plaintifff shall
reside out of this State, or any County thereof.

An Act to amend an Act to define the mode in which costs under the
Act entitled an Act to revise and amend an Act for ascertaining
the fees of the public ojicers of this State, passed the 18th of December, 1792, assented to 20th December, 1834, shall be taxed and
collected in future.—-Assented to 27th December, 1842. Pam. 59.

FVhereas, In some of the Circuits of this State, a variety of practice in relation to the taxation and collection of costs, has obtained,
under the above recited Acts; for the purpose of rendering the mode
and practice uniform and consistent with the design of the Legislature in said enactments,

169. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of :
this Act, suitors shall not be required to pay the Court costs, or, any;
part thereof at the several progressive steps or stages of their suits, as
has been required by the decisions of some of the Courts; but that
the mode heretofore practised in other Courts, viz. : the taxation of
the costs which plaintifffs were supposed to have paid to the entering
up of judgment, in the judgment of the plaintifffs, be, and the same
is hereby declared to be the true intent and meaning of the Act of

seventeen hundred and ninety-two, upon this subject, and that the
officers of Courts be, and they are hereby prohibited from demanding or receiving the costs or fees, which the said fees bill, or the
Acts amendatory thereof prescribes, until after judgment, and then
to be raised by execution of plaintiffs from defendants, if enough can

-be collected for such purpose; if not, then upon the return of the

ji. fa. or fas. against defendants with the entry of nulla bona endorsed thereon, by the proper officer, fa. or ca. sa. shall immediately issue against plaintiffl's, for the purpose of making costs out of
plaintifffs. '

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against any of the
provisions or directions of this Act be, and the same are hereby repealed.

3. EXECUTION, ILLEGALITY, SALE AND WRIT OF POSSESSION.’

Sec. 170. Illegality of executions. Sec. 188. Purchbser not complying, re-sale.
“ 171. Sales; hours of sale. “ 189. Memorandum unnecessary.
“ 172, Notice to tenant of land. “ 190. Growing crops.
“ 173. Land out of County. “ 191. illegality; return.

" 174. Pa‘. fa. how issued and levied. “ 192. Sh’fl‘s fees; service out of Co.
" 175. Ca. ca. returned; Property given “ 193. Discharge under co. co.

up. “ 194. Escape; officer‘s control.

" 176. \Vrits of possession. “ 195. Levy, pending ' ‘ity.

" 177. Hours of sale. “ 196. Land divided by ‘o_unty line.

" 178. Levy on Bank and other stock. " 197. Other than defendant's residence.
" 179. Sale by shares. “ 198.’ I-‘i. far. for and 1-3. Sheriif.

" 180. Levy by Constable. “ 199; Levy. and sale under.

" 181. Certilicate to purchaser. “ 200. Sale by vendor—bond given.

". 182. Transfer made. “ 201. l1legality—amendmcnt.

" 183. Transfer after judgment. “ 202. Continuance.

" 184. Possession of-1and~to~ urchaser. “ 203. Saleb adm'r; bond given.

" 185. Purchaserof mortgage property. “ 204. Rope ' clause.

“ 186. Or life estate; Bond- " 2w. 1-'£.fa. a. 81111‘. Levyby Bailif.

" 187. Ora re-sale.

Sec. XXXI. [Re-enacted with amendments, by Act of 1811,
see. 174. i

170. Slim. XXXII. In all cases where execution shall issue illegally,and‘the person against whom such execution may be, shall make oath
thereof, and shall state the causes of such illegality, such Sheriff shall
return ‘the same to the next term of the Court out of which the same
ieucd, which Court shall determine thereon, at such term.*1 [The
residue of this section relates to claims, and is superseded by the
Act of 1821: see sec. 249, &c.]

171. Sec. XXXIII. No sales in future- shall be made by Sheriis of property taken under execution, but on the first Tuesday in
each month, and between the hours of ten and three in the day,1' and
it shall be the duty of the Sheriffs to give thirty days’ notice in one
of the public gazettes of the State, of all sales of lands and other property executed by him, and also advertise the same in three of the

a most public places in the County where such sales are to be made,

and shall give a full and complete description of the property to be
sold, making known the name of the defendant, and the person who

may be in possession of the property, except horses, hogs, and cattle,
which may be sold at any time, by the consent of the defendant ; and

in whichcase it shall be his duty to give the plaintifff ten days’ nolice thereof, and also to advertise the same in three or more of the
most public places in the County where such property may be, at
least ten days before the sale.

An Act pointing out the duty of Sherifs, in selling lands under arecut2'on.——Approved Dec. 22, 1808. Vol. II. 454.

172. See. I. It shall hereafter be the duty of the Sheriffs of the
several Counties in this State, when they levy any execution on land,
to leave a written notice of the said levy with the owner, if in the County, or tenant in possession, if any, or transmit the same to him, her
or them, in five days after such levy. [But see sec. 176, as to writs
of possession, explaining this Act.]

173. Sec. II. It shall not hereafter be lawful for any Sheriff
within this State, to levy upon or sell any land which lies out of the‘
County of which he is Sheriff; any thing in any law to the contra-‘
ry notwithstanding}:

Sec. III. [Directing Sheriffs to advertise in their respective circnits. Superseded by Act of 1850; see Art. XVII. “ Officers,” Geo.

see. 388.]

An Act to amend the thirty-jirst section of the Judiciary Act of 1799.
Approved Dec. 14, 1811. Vol. III. 378.

174. Sec. 1. All executions shall be issued and signed by the
Clerks of the several Courts in which judgments shall be obtained, and bear teste in the name of one of the Judges or presiding
Justices of such Courts, and shall bear date from the time of issuing,
shall be directed to all and singular the Sheriffs of this State, and
may be levied on the estate both real and personal ,1 of the defendant
or defendants, or issue against the body of the defendant at the option of the plaintifff, which execution shall be of full force until
satisfied, without being obliged to be renewed on the Court roll from
year to year as heretofore practised. And when the defendant shall
point out any property on which to levy the execution, being in the
hands and possession of any person not a party to such judgment,
the Sheriff shall not levy thereon, but shall proceed to levy on such
property as may be found in the hands and possession of the defendant, who shall nevertheless be at liberty to point out what part of his
property he may think proper, which the Sheriff shall be bound to
take and sell first, if the same is in the opinion of the Sheriff sufficient to satisfy such judgment.

' 175. Sec. 11. Where any execution shall have issued or may

hereafter issue against the body* of any defendant, and the same

shall not have been satisfied, it shall be lawful for an execution to
issue against the property or such defendant or defendants on the
return of said execution, which had been issued against the body of
the said defendant or defendants. And that when an execution

-against the body of any defendant shall have been served, the party

on whom the same shall have been served, shall be released, Provided, he, she, or they, shall deliver to the officer serving the same,
the property which shall, in the opinion of such officer, be stiflicient to discharge the debt and all costs, and give sufficient security
to the said officer that the property so delivered in bona fide the property of the defendant or defendants, and subject to the discharge of
the said debt. In which case the officer shall return the execution
so issued against the body of the defendant or defendants, and take
out anexecution against the property of such defendant or defendants, and proceed to advertise and sell the property so delivered up
to satisfy such execution as heretofore practised.

An Act to alter and explain the first section of the Act of Dec. 99:
1808, (see sec. 172, «Sec. )-—Approved Dec. 16, 1811. Vol. III. 140.

176. Sec.» II.-|' The first section of the before recited Act shall

not be so construed as to authorize any Judge of the Superior
Courts to order writs of possession to issue against a third person re-C
siding within the limits of any such survey or tract of land so offered}
fir sale: Provided also, that such person shall not be known in the1
suit on which such execution is founded, nor have been put in posses-J

sion by, or claimed under or by virtue of any conveyance from the]
defendant in such ‘suit!

in Act to alter and amend the thirty-third section of an Act, entitled
“ An Act to revise and amend the Judiciary system of this State,"
passed 16th February, 1799, so far as relates to the hours of Sherifs’ and Constables’ Sales.—Approved Dec. 21, 1821. Vol. IV.
208.

Whereas, the hours of Sheriffs’ and Constables’ sales are thought
to be too short, and attended with great inconvenience to the Sheriffs and Constables, and frequently to the injury of parties concerned ;
{or remedy whereof,

177. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of this Act, '
the hours of Sheriffs’ and Constables’ sales will be from ten o’clock.‘
in the forenoon until four o’clock in the afternoon ; all laws and}
parts of laws militating against this Act, be, and the same are here-‘

by repealed.

An Act to make Bank and other Stock subject it E:cecution.—Approved Dec. 21, 1822. Vol. IV. 71.

178. From and after the passing of this Act, the shares or stock]
owned by any person in any of the banks or other corporations in}
this State, shall be subject to be sold by the Sheriff or his Deputy,‘
under execution.

179. Sec. II. When any Sheriff or his Deputy shall have P18.-I
ted in his hands any execution against any person who owns any}
Stock or shares in any of the banks or corporations of this State, it
shall be lawful, and he is hereby required, on application of the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, to endorse on said execution a levy of
the number of shares belonging to the defendant, and after adverti8mg the same agreeably to the law regulating Sheriffs’ sales, shall
thereafter proceed to sell the said shares or stock: Provided always,
fhnt he shall set up one share at a time, and shall sell no more than
lisufficient to satisfy the amount of executions then in his hands.

180. Sec. 111. When any Constable shall have any execution.
Placed in his hands against any person who is the owner of any}
ihares or stock in any bank or other corporation in this State, it shall‘
be lawful, and he is hereby required, on the application of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, to endorse a levy on said execution or

executions in like manner ; and it shall be his duty to make return
of the same to the Sheriff of the County in which he lives, which
said Sheriff shall proceed to sell as pointed out by the second section

of this bill.

:o 181. Sec. IV. When the Sheriff or his Deputy shall sell any

‘I

shares in any bank or other corporation in this State, he shall give a
certificate of such sale to the purchaser.

182. Sec. V. The officer of the bank or other corporation,
whose duty it may be to make transfers of stock on the books of the
bank or other corporation, shall, and he is hereby required to make
a transfer of the stock purchased under this Act, to the purchaser of
the same, upon his, her, or their producing certificate or certificates

to the said officer.‘
‘I83. See. VI. Any transfer made by the defendant of vhg bank

tier other stock, after judgment obtained against him or her, shall be

‘void : Provided, that notice of the obtainment of such judgment
be served on the cashier of such principal bank, or any of its branches, or the proper officer of such other corporation, within twenty
days after said judgment is obtained.

An Act to compel Sherifs and Coroners to deliver possession of Real
Estate sold by them under executions to the purchaser, his or her
agent or attorneg/.—Approved Dec. 23, 1823. Vol. IV. 405.

184. When any Sheriff or Coroner shall sell any real estate by
‘virtue of and under the authority of any execution, it shall be the
duty of such Sheriff or Coroner (as the case may be,) upon applica’tion, to put the purchaser, his or her agent or attorney, in possession
'of the real estate sold: Provided, that this Act shall not authorize the
officer making the sale to turn out any other person than the defendant in execution, his heirs, or their tenants, if such other person
were in possession at the term of the rendition of the judgment;
or if such person has acquired such possession under the judgment
of a Court of competent jurisdiction, or claim under the person or
persons acquiring such right by the judgment of such Court.”

An Act to compel purchasers of mortgaged property, purchasers of I
estates. or cstatesfor term of years, in personal property, at Sherz_°f’s,
Coroner's or Constable’: sales, to give bond.—Approved Dec. 22,
1830. Pam. 119.

185. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall be the duty of purchasers of personal property, under the encumbrance of
mortgage, or mortgages, at any Sheriff ’s, Coroner’s, [or] Constable’s
ale, to give bond and security, to the said Sheriff, Coroner, or Constable, in double the value of the property so sold, (of which the ofncer selling shall be the judge,) conditioned not to move said property out of said State, and deliver up the same to the mortgagee,
his heirs or assigns, on demand made after foreclosure of said mortgage or mortgages: Provided, the mortgagee, his agent, or attorney,
shall tender an affidavit, previous to the sale thereof, to the officer
selling said property, stating that he, she, or they are just and bona
tide mortgagees thereof, and that he, she or they, apprehend the loss
of said property, unless bond be given in terms of this Act.

186. Sec. II. When any person shall purchase at any Sheriff ’s,
Coroner’s or Constable’s sale, a life estate, or an estate for term of
years in personal property, it shall be the duty of said Sheriff,
Coroner or Constable, to require of said purchaser, bond and security asaforesaid, for the delivery of said property to the party entitled
in remainder: Provided, the same is required by said party, his agent
or attorney, who shall make affidavit of their right to said property,
which shall be tendered to the officer selling, previous to sale, which
bonds when taken, shall be filed in the Clerk’s oilice of the Superi-;
or Court of the County where said sale is made, subject to be sued‘
on, for the benefit and use of the said party, whenever the particular
estate is determined, which said Court shall have power on sufficient
cause shown, to compel said obligor, to give additional security, .
from time to time, as justice may require, on ten days’ previous notice‘
being given.’

187. Ste. III. On failure of said purchaser to give bond and
security as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the said Sheriff, Coroner‘
or Constable, to re-sell the said property, at the risk and loss of such
purchaser.

Sac. IV. All laws or parts of laws, militating against this Act
are hereby repealed.

An Act defining the liability of purchasers of Real and Personal
Estate, at executors’, administrators,’ guardians’ and Sherifs’

sales, when they refuse or fail to comply with the terms of such
sales.-—Approved Dec. 27, 1831. Pam. 130.

188. From and after the passage of this Act, any individual who

"may become the purchaser of any real or personal estate at any sale
which shall hereafter be made at public outcry by any executor, ad- ‘
ministrator, guardian or Sheriif, and shall fail or refuse to comply with 2
the terms of such sale when required so to do, shall be liable for the
amount of such purchase money, and it shall beat the option of such
executor, administrator, guardian or Sheriff, either to proceed against
such purchaser, for the full amount of the purchase money, or to re~
sell such real or personal estate, and then to proceed against the first
purchaser, for the deficiency arising from such re-sale,‘ and in case
of Sheriffs’ sales, such suit may be brought in the name of the
Sheriff for the use of the defendant or plaintifff in execution, or any
other rson in interest, as the case may be.
l89I.)eS1-:c. II. No note or memorandum in writing, shall be ne- ;
cessary to charge such purchaser at such sale, and who shall become 
such by reason of such real or personal estate being knocked off to l
-him, as the highest bidder.
Sec. III. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed.

An Act to prevent Sherifs and other Ojicers, from levying on and
selling growing crops, except in certain cases.—.Approved Dec. ‘29,
. 1836. Pam. 251. 

190. SEC. I. From and immediately after thefgpassage of this
3Act, no Sheriff or other officer, shall hereafter levy on any grow- ;
°ing crop of corn, Wheat, oats, rye, potatoes, cotton, rice, or any

other crop usually raised or cultivated by the planters or farmers of ;
this State, nor sell the same until the said crop or crops shall become matured or fit to be gathered :9 Provided, this Act shall mt

prevent any of said officers from levying on and selling crops, as

heretofore practised,When the debtor or debtors shall abscond or remove from the State or County, nor from selling growing crops with

land.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act

be’, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the thirty-second section of the Judiciary system of
this State, passed the 16th day of February 1799, so far as relates to illegality in e.z:ecutions.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1838.
Pam. 145.

191. Sec. 'I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after
the passage of this Act, when any person against whom an execution shall issue illegally, shall make oath thereof, and shall state
the cause of ‘such illegality, the Sheriff shall return the same to the

next term of the Court from which such execution issued :' Provided,
that the person alleging such illegality, shall also deliver to the Sheriff,
or other lawful officer, a bond with good and suilicient security conditioned for the delivery of the property levied on, at the time and
place of sale, in the event of the causes or grounds of the alleged illegality being overruled by the Court, and not otherwise ; and in all
cases it shall be the duty of the Sheriff or other officers, to levy on
property, where any can be found, before receiving such affidavit.""

Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws, repugnant to this :Act, he
and the same are hereby repealed. ‘

9

An Act to alter and amend the ninth section of the Judiciary Act rf

1799, and the /irst section of an Act relative to czrecutions, passed December 14, 18l1.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 114.

See. I. [Process against Sheriff ; see “ Commencement, &.c.
Action,” sec. 75.]

Secs. II. and III. [Re-enacted with amendments, in 1847'; see
secs. 198, 199.] _

192. Sec. IV. When said process or execution shall be served or:
levied by a Sheriff, out of his own County, that the Sheriff so serving
and returning the same, shall receive in addition to the fees established
by law for such service orvlevy, the sum of two dollars.1'

Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to be entitled an Act to authorize the plaintiff in all cases cf arrest under a copias ad satis/aciendum, to discharge the defendant from

imprisonment, and for his property still to be bound for the debt.Assented to Dec. 9, 1843. Pam. 120.

193. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, in any case where a debtor has been arrested under an execution against the body, and is afterwards discharged from such imprisonment, either by the authority of the plaintifff or otherwise,
without the debt being paid, that such arrest and discharge shall not
operate asa satisfaction of the debt, but the debtor’s property shall
still be liable to the judgment as though no arrest had been madeany usage, custom or law to the contrary notwithstanding : Provided
always, that the officer making such arrest, shall endorse on such execution, that the defendant is discharged from arrest without having
paid the amount due.

An Act for the relief of Sheriffs, Coroners, - Constables, and other
ojicers of the State of Georg:'a.—Assented to Dec. 9, 1843. Pam.
31.

194. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That whenever any officer shall arrest a defendant on a capias ad satisfaciendum, and said defendant shall
make his escape, and said oilicer shall be compelled to pay the amount
due on said capias, by reason of said escape, the Sheriff, Coroner,
Constable or other officer, as the case may be, shall have the control
of the fieri facias issued, or to be issued on the judgment upon which
said capias ad satisfaciendum is founded, for the purpose of reimbursing himself out of the property of defendant; and the said
Sheriff, Coroner, Constable or other officer, as the case may be, shall
control said fieri facias in as full and ample a manner, for the purpose
of said reimbursement, as the plaintifff in said iieri facias might or could
do, 'or could have done, had said capias ad satisfaciendum not have issued, or had the money due on said judgment not have been paid by
-said Sheriff, Coroner, Constable or other officer; Provided, that the
Court by whose order or judgment such officer shall be required to
pay the amount due, shall pass an order giving such control.
Sec. 11. That all laws and parts of laws militating against this
Act, he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act in relation to ajidavits of IIlegalz'ty.—Approved Dec. 27,
1845. Pam. 39.

195. See. I. Be it enacted, That when any affidavit of illegaliyty shall be filed in terms of the law, for the purpose of staying
proceedings when an execution is levied on property, the property
so levied on shall be subject to levy and sale under other executions,
and the officer making the first levy, shall claim, receive, hold and
retain such an amount of the proceeds of sale as the Court shall
deem sufficient to pay the execution first levied, including interest
up to the time of the Court at which said illegality shall be determined, and any bond given by the defendant on filing such affidavit, shall be released and discharged,_so faras relates to the property

sold.

An Act to enable Slzerifs or Coroners to sell tracts of land divided by
a County line.—Approved Dec. 25, 1847. Pam. 282.

L 196. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
,_ this Act, where judgment shall be obtained against any debtor owning a tract or tracts of land divided by a County line or County lines,
it shall and may be lawful for the Sheriff or Coroner of the County
tolevy on and sell the whole of said tract or tracts of land, notwithstanding part of said tract or tracts of land may lie in Counties of
which he is not Sheriff or Coroner.‘
197. Sec. II. Where any judgment debtor shall own any tract
_ or tracts of land divided by a County line or County lines, and no
, part of such lands shall lie in the County [of his residence,] it shall and

may be lawful for the Sheriff or Coroner of either County in which
part of said tract or tracts of land may lie, to levy on and sell the
whole of said tract or tracts of land.

Snc. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be
and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend an Act passed 22d of Dec. 1840, entitled
“ An Act to alter and amend the 9th section of the Judiciary Act of
1799, and the first section cf an Act relative to Executions, assed
Dec. 14, 1811 ;” and to provide for the enforcement o/'ju¢i:g'ment

against (and sold and bond for titles given.-—Approved Dec. 29, 1847.
Pam. 201.

198. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That the second section of this Act,
of which this is arnendatory, be amended so as to read as follows:
“ Sec. 2. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
all executions, orders, decrees, attachments for contempt, and all final process hereafter issued by the Clerks of the Superior and Inferior Courts, in favor of or against any Sheriff of this State, shall be directed to the Coroner of the County in which said Sheriff may reside, and to all andsingular the Sheriffs of the State, except the Sherill‘ of the County in which the interested Sheriff may reside, which
may be levied, served and returned by the said Coroner or other
Sheriff, at the option of the plaintifff or party seeking to have the action of said officer or officers.”""

199. Sec. II. The third section of the Act of which this is
amendatory, shall be so amended as hereafter to read and be as follows: “ Sec. III. And be it further enacted, That when a Sheriff
shall levy on property by virtue of any execution directed and required by the second section of this Act, (as hereinbefore amended,)

said property shall be sold in the County in which the levy may be
made, and that whenever any decree, order, ca. sa. attachment for
contempt or final process, directed as required by the second section of
this Act, (as now amended,) shall be placed in the hands of any Sheriii‘, and under and by virtue of said process, it shall become the duty,
under the laws of this State, of said Sheriff to imprison any defendant or other delinquent, it shall be lawful for said Sheriff to arrest
the delinquent wherever found, and it shall be his duty to imprison
him or her, either in the County where the arrest was made, or in
the County where the arresting Sheriff may reside, at the option of
the plaintifff or other person so requiring the services of said Sheriff.
200. Sec. III. When any judgment has been or shall be rendered, in any of the Courts of this State, upon any note _ or other evidence of debt, given for the purchase of land, where titles have not
been made, but bond for titles given, it shall and may be lawful for
the obligor in said’ bond to make and file, and have recorded in the

Clerk’s office of the Superior Court of the County, a good and sumcient deed of conveyance, to the defendant for said land ; and thereupon the same may be levied on and sold under said judgment as in
other cases :"" Provided, That the said judgment shall take lien upon

the land prior to any other judgment or encumbrance against the de-'
fendant.

An Act in relation to ajidavits of illegality of e2:eczttion.—Approved
' Feb. 22, 1850. Pam. 42.

201. Size. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the pamge of

this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants

in execution, in cases of illegality of execution, by leave of the Court,
to make any amendment of the affidavit of illegality, which the defendant or defendants may deem necessary, and which amendment
may be made either by the insertion of new grounds of illegality, or
the correction of errors and mistakes in the affidavit of illegality, and
the said amendments when made and sworn to, shall be taken as
part of the original affidavit ;1 I’7'ovicled always, that the amending
party shall not be entitled to any delay or continuance of said case to
which he would not have been entitled in case his atiidavit had been
perfect in the first instance.

202. Sec. II. Whenever an amendment is made under the provisions of this Act, the plaintifff in execution or his counsel, (if surprised by the amendment,) shall and may move a continuance of the
case, and the Court shall charge the continuance to the amending

Pm'tYAn Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act
passed 22d Dec. 1840, entitled an Act to alter and amend the
ninth section of the Judiciary Act of 1799, and the jirst section of
an Act relative to acecutions, passed Dec. 14th, l8l1,and to provide for the enforcement ¢y' judgments against land sold and bond

for titles given, assented to Dec. 29, 1847.—Approved Feb. 11,
1850. Pam. 275.

203. See. I. Be it enacted, That when any judgment has been
or shall be rendered in any of the Courts of this State, upon any note
or other evidence of debt, given for the purchase of land, where titles
have not been made, but bond for titles given, it shall and may be
lawful for the executor or executors, administrator or administrators
of the obligor in such bond, to make and file and have recorded in
the Clerk’s office of the Superior Court of the County, a good and
sufficient deed of conveyance to the defendant for said land, and
thereupon the same may be levied on and sold under said judgment

as in other cases: Provided, That said judgment shall take lien upon the land prior to any other judgment or encumbrance against the
defendant.

204. Sec. 11. Any laws militating against this Act be and the
same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, amend and explain, c§'c. and to authorize Constables to levy certain e1°ecutt'ons.—Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam.
"7.

[Secs. 1. and II. relate to Sureties. See Art. XXI. secs. 448,
449.]

205. Sec. III. That in all cases Where any Sheriff may be a de-;
fendant in execution, it shall be lawful for- the plaintifff to place his‘

execution in the hands of any Constable of the County, who shall
be and he is hereby authorized to levy and sell, as the Coroner or
Sheriff of an adjoining County is authorized to do in such cases.

Sec. IV. ' All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act be
and the same are hereby repealed.

IV. BILLS OF EXCHANGE, NOTES, 8:0.‘Sec. 203. Bonds, notes, &c.,equal dignity. Sec. 211. And interest.

“ 207. Speciiics—value. “ 212. Extended toall bills.
“ 208. Five per cent. damages on bills. | “ 213. Holidays.

“ 209. Beyond U. S. “ 214. No grace on sight drafts.
“ 210. Damages if protested.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. I. 292.

206. Sec. XXV. All bonds, and other specialties, and promissory notes, and other liquidated demands, bearing date since the 9th
day of June, 1791, whether for money, or other thing,1' shall be of
equal dignity, and be negotiable by endorsement, in such manner
and under such restrictions as are prescribed in the case of promissory notes}. Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the
party giving any bond, note, or other wntmg, from restrammg the
negotiability thereof, by expressing m the body thereof such intention.’

An Act to ascertain and establish a certain and uniform mode of calculating the prices of specific articles in contracts between individual and individual in this State.——Approved Dec. 1, 1800. VOL
I. 39. 'Whereas, it doth frequently happen that in the ordinary transactions
between individuals of this State, contracts are entered into for the
payment of specific articles, which contracts may have been either
verbal or written; And whereas, great dimculty and uncertainty has
occurred in the trial of such cases in Courts of Justice, in ascertaining the time from which the prices of such specific article should be
calculated; for remedy whereof, and for the establishment of some
precise mode of estimation in future, _

207'. Be it enacted, <§‘c. That on every bond, note, or other instrument in writing, or verbal contract for the payment of negroes,
produce, stock, goods, or other specific articles, of any nature or
kind whatsoever; the price of such specific article at the time it became due, upon such‘ bond, note, or other instrument inwriting, or verbal contract as aforesaid, and-having respect to the place, [where] made
payable according to contract, if any, shall be the sole and estab_ lished rule of valuation : and all and every such bond, note, or other instrument in writing, or verbal contract, for specific articles as
aforesaid, shall bear interest at eight‘ per cent. from the time they
become due, in like manner as if given for the payment of money
simply; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act concerning bills of e.rchange.—Approved December 19,
1823. Vol. IV. 212.

208. Whenever any bill of exchange hereafter to be drawn or
negotiated within this State upon any person or persons of or in any
State, territory, or district of the United States,‘ shall be returned
unpaid, and shall have been duly protested for non-payment in the
manner usual in cases of foreign bills of exchange, the person or
persons to whom the same shall or may be payable shall be entitled
to recover, and receive of and from the drawer or drawers, or the
endorser or endorsers of such bill of exchange five per cent. damages‘
over and above the principal sum for [which] said bill of exchange
shall have been drawn, together with lawful interest on the aggregate amount of such principal sum, from the time at which notice
of such protest shall have been given, and the payment of the said

principal sum and damages shall have been demanded.

An Act to reduce the damages upon bills of exchange drawn on any
place beyond the limits of the United States, returned protested for
uon-payment ; and to define more precisely the mode of settling the

same on the principles :3] c:z:change.—Approved Dec. 24, 1827. Vol.
IV. 221.

Whaeas, the damages at present established by commercial custom and judicial decision in this State, upon foreign bills of exchange returned and protested, are much too high; And whereas, a
doubt exists what is the legal mode of settlement; for remedy
whereof,

209. Be it enacted, That on the bills of exchange drawn in this
State after the 31st day of January next, upon any place beyond the
limits of the United States, which shall be returned protested for
non-payment, it shall be lawful for the holder or holders thereof to.
recover from t ose liable for the payment thereof, the amount of the;
said bill of exc e, with postages, protests, other necessary expens-.
es, and interest upon the amount of these sums from the date of thej
protest until the time of presenting the same for payment in this
State, at the rate established at the place at which the bill was payable; and also such premium upon the face of the bill and the foreign postages, protest, and necessary expenses, as good bills of ex-1
change upon the same place which such bill was made payable, or
[are] worth, at the time and place of its demand in this State; but if
such bills are then and there at a discount, the holder shall deduct
such discount upon and from the items of principal, foreign postage,
protest and necessary expenses.

210. Sec. II. It shall be lawful for the holder of such bill of
exchange, so returned protested as aforesaid, also to claim and receive from the person or persons liable therefore, damages at the rate
of ten per cent. upon the amount for which the said bill was drawn.

211. Sec. III. It shall be lawful for the holder or holders of such
bill or bills returned protested as aforesaid, to recover the legal interest established in this State, from the time of presentment for settlement until paid, upon the sum or sums to which he would be en-.
titled by the before mentioned mode of settlement.

An Act to alter and amend an Act concerning bills of exchange, passed on the nineteenth December, 1823.——Assented to Dec. 21, 1839.
Pam. 59.

212. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That all the provisions of said Act,

be, and they are hereby extended to all bills of exchange hereafter

drawn (in this State,) upon, or made payable [at,] any place within
the United States, out of this State, without reference to the residence of the drawer or acceptor.

An Act to designate the Holidays to be observed in the acceptance and
payment of bills of ezcchange and prmnissory notes, and to disallow the three days, commonly called the three days of grace, on all
sight clru_./is or bills of eztchlznge drawn payable at sight.—Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam. 279.

213. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That the following days, namely -:

:the first day of January, commonly called New Year’s day, the fourth

day of July, the twenty-fifth day of December, commonly called
Christmas day, and any day appointed or recommended by the Governor of the State of Georgia, Mayor of any City, or other municipal authority in said State, or the President of the United States, as
aday of fast or thanksgiving, shall for all purposes whatsoever as regards the presenting for payment or acceptance, and of protesting
and giving notice of the dishonor of any bill or bills of exchange,
bank check or checks, and promissory note or notes, made after the
passing. of this Act, be treated and considered as is the first day of
the week, commonly called Sunday.

214. Sec. 11. Three days, commonly called the three days of grace,

"shall not be allowed upon any sight drafts or bills of exchange drawn

payable at sight, after the passage of this Act; but the same shall
be payable on presentation thereof, subject to the provisions of the
first section of this Act.

See. 3. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, be,
and the same are hereby repealed.

V. CERTIOBABI, INJUNCTION, NE EXEAT, 8:0.‘

Sec. 215. Ccrtiorari to Infr Court. Sec. 229. Repealing 5th sec. Act of 1811.

“ 2 ‘H7. Costs and Security on Ccrliorari. “ 230. Discharge of defendants.

“ 2!?'. Certificate thereof. “ 231. Judge interested.

“ 215. Costs and security for Injunction. “ 232. Remaindermen; Na Erect.
“ 210. Surety—justifying. “ 233. New Security.

“ Si). Granting out of circuit. “ 234. Ccrtiorari in six months.

" 2.11. Service on non-resident. “ 235. Injunction—at discretion.
“ 232. Disposition of Injunction. " 236. Second Injunction.

“ 2:25. Second Injunction. “ 237. Certiorari by pauper.

" 2;’ 1». - 'e Ema: for debts not due. “ 238. Proceedings to Certiorari.
" 2‘.-' . Co-obligor—su1-cty. “ 239. Supersedeas.

“ 226. Running Orphans’ property. “ 240 Judgment Superior Court.
" 2.3’. Discharge of defendant. “ 241. Injunctions by pauper.

“ 2:3. Disposition of property.

Jztdiciary Act 1799. Vol. I. 292.

215. SEC. LIV. “There either party in any cause in any Inferior‘
Court shall take exceptions to any proceedings in any case affecting?
the real merits of such cause, the party making the same shall offer}
such exceptions in writing, which shall be signed by himself or his
attorney ; and if the same shall be overruled by the Court, it shall and
may be lawful for such party, on giving twenty days’ notice to the
opposite party or his attorney, to apply to one of the Judges of the
Superior Court, and if such Judge shall deem the said exceptions to
be sufficient, he shall forthwith issue a Writ of certiorari,‘ directed to
the Clerk of such Inferior Court, requiring him to certify and send up
to the next Superior Court, to be held in the said County, all the proceedings in the said cause, and at the term of the Superior Court to
which such proceedings shall be certified, the said Superior Court
shall determine thereon, and order the proceedings to be dismissed, or
return the sa.me to the said Inferior Court with order to proceed in the
said cause.

An Act to regulate the granting Certiorcries and Injunctions in this
Szate.—Approved Dec. 16, 1811. Vol. III. 133.

216. Sec. 1. From and after the passing of this Act, it shall not
be lawful for any Judge of the Superior Court of this State to sanction or grant any certiorari, unless the person or persons aggrieved and
applying for the same, shall have previously paid all costs which may
have accrued on the trial below, and have given to the Magistrate or

Magistrates, or Justices of the Inferior Court, or Clerk of the Inferior Court, as the case may happen, good and sutiicient security for
the eventual condemnation money, or any future costs which may
accrue.""

217. Sec. II. The person applying for said certiorari shall produce to the Judge authorized to grant the same, a certificate, from the
'Magistrate or Magistrates, or Justices of the Inferior Comt who tried

the case, or Clerk of the Inferior Court, whose duty it shall be to give
said certificate, informing said Judge that the costs have been paid,
and security given in terms of this Aet.‘|'

218. Sec. III. No injunction shall be sanctioned or granted by
any Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, until the party re;quiring the same shall have previously given to the party against

whom such injunction is to operate, by application to the Clerk of
the Superior Court for that purpose, a bondwith good and ample security for the eventual condemnation money’ together with all future
costs; which said bond shall be lodged in said Clerk’s office, subject
to the order of the Court, and have paid all costs which may have
accmed in the case, the subject of the injunction.:|;

219. Sec. IV. VVhere any doubt arises as to the sufiicieney of

"the security tendered, to any of the persons, authorized by this Act to

take the same, the party so authorized to take the said security, may
compel the party to justify upon oath, and such justification upon oath
shall amount to such sufliciency as to exonerate the party taking the
security, from any liability.

220. Sac. V. No Judge of the Superior Court shall grant or sanction any certiorari§ or injunction out of his judicial district, unless
there shall be a vacancy in any of the other districts, or the Judge
thereof be so indisposed, or be absent therefrom, so that the business
of granting certioraries and injunctions cannot be speedily done.
[Proviso repealed by Act of 1821, see. 229.]

221. Size. VI. In all cases of bills of injunction, where the defendant or defendants reside out of the State, a service onthe attorney of the plaintifff in the original action, and a publication of a six
months’ rule, obtained from the Judge granting the injunction, shall
be deemed a sufficient service.||

222. Sec. VII. All bills of injunction granted by the Superior
Court, or any of them, or which may hereafter be granted, shall stand
and be considered as open for argument and amendment, at the first
term of the Superior Court which may be holden after the passing of
this Act, in and for the County where the suit originated, or the first

term after the granting such bill of injunction; and in all cases of

injunction, they shall be disposed of, and adecision made at the second term‘ of said Court, held in and for the County where such suit
originated, any law to the contrary notwithstanding. ~

223. Sec. VIII. The dilatory practice of granting bills of injunc-l
tion a second time, after the dissolution of the first bill or bills, shall;
not be admissible or allowed of in any case or cases whatever!’ I

An Act to autlzorize the Judges of the Superior Courts to errant wrils If

we area: in certain cases therein mcntioned.—Approved 1)ecember 6,
1813. Vol. III. 530. Whereas, great evils have existed and do yet exist in this State,
in consequence of the law of England regulating writs of ne exeat
not having provided for cases where the demand set forth by the
complainant is not due; and whereas, no provision is made for cases
of joint obligors or joint and several obligors, when a part of them
remove, or are about removing without the jurisdictional limits of
this State, without making satisfaction to the obligee or to the other
obligor or obligors, by reason whereof, the payment of the debt devolves on the obligor or obligors who remain within the State, and
that too without the possibility of compelling the obligors or obligor
removing, ‘to pay or secure the payment of their proportionable part
to the obligee or the complaining obligors. For remedy whereof,

224. See. I. Be it enacted, q°e. That from and after the passage of
this Act, the Judges of the Superior Courts shall, and they are here-,
by authorized to grant writs of ne exeat, as well in cases where the
debt or demand is not actually due, but exists fairly and bona fide in
expectancy at the time of making application, as in cases where the
demand is due ;" and all the proceedings shall be as heretofore practised in this State, in restraining the person and property of the defendant until he secures to the complainant the payment of the demand, or shows good cause to the Court why he should not pay the
same—-all other proceedings to be in the same way as practised under this writ in other cases.1'

225. Sec. II. In case of joint or joint and several obligors, if any
one or more of them are about to remove without the jurisdictional
limits of this State, and are carrying off their property, leaving one
or more fellow-obligors bound with them for the payment of any
debt, penalty, or for the delivery of property at a certain time, which
time has not arrived at the time of such removal, such obligor or obligors who remain, shall have the benefit of the writ of ne ezeat to
compel the removing obligor to secure the payment of his part of the
debt, penalty, or of the delivery of the property; and also in cases
of security, the security shall have all the benefit of the writ of ne

vexeat against his principal or fellow-security, where the obligation or

debt is not yet due, and the principal or either of the securities are
about removing Without the State: Provided nevertheless, that in
all cases arising under this Act, the party complaining shall pursue
the legal form and course of law as heretofore practised in this State
—anything herein contained to the contrary nothwithstanding.

An Act to authorize the several C'.mrt o E nil in this State to errant
9 3/ Q

remedies in certain cases, and to regulate the Courts o/‘Law and Law'ty in this State, Q'c.—Approved Nov. 23, 1814. Vol. III. 39.

226. See. I. Where any person or persons has or shall run out
of this State the property of a deceased person or persons, to the in_ jury of the orphans of said deceased, or to the injury of the next of
kin entitled to the same, it shall and may be lawful for the Judges of
the several Courts of Equity in this State, upon application and the
facts being stated on oath made to the truth thereof, and also the
property being described, and its value sworn to by the person or
persons entitled to said estate, his, her, or their agent or attorney, to
give the party a remedy, either by arresting the defendant or taking
his property, or both, as the Court in its discretion shall deem necessary and proper. Provided always, that the Judge granting the
same shall take good security of the party, his, her, or their agent
or attorney, in dou.ble the amount sworn, to make good all costs and
damages the defendant shall sustain, it the plaintifff shall discontinue
or be cast in said suit.

227. Sec. II. The defendant if arrested, and his property also if
taken, shall be discharged and returned to him on his giving good
security to perform the order and decree of the Court.""

228. Sec. III. If the defendant fails, or’-neglects, or refuses to
give such security, the Court may make such disposition of the property as in its discretion it shall deem most advantageous to the parties on both sides.

An Act to repeal so much of the fifth section of an Act passed on
the 16th Dec. 1811, entitled “an. Act to regulate the granting of

Certioraries and I njmtetions in this State,” so jar as relates to
Certz'orarz'es.—Assented to Dec. 21, 1821. Vol. IV. 206.

229. Whereas, much inconvenience has resulted in practice and
frequently great injustice has been done to parties litigant in the several Justices’ Courts of this State, from the provisions of the said
5th section; in remedy whereof,

Be it cmuslczl, tS'c. That so much of the 5th section of an Act
passed on the 16th day of December, in the year 1811, as relates to
certioraries, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

An Act to prescribe the mode of proceeding under writs of ne exeat, and
to amend the laws regulating the granting of writs of injunction, by
the Judges of the Superior Courts of this State.—Approved Dec. 22,
1830. Pam. 125.

230. In all cases where persons may be hereafter arrested by virtue of writs of ne ezeat, they shall be discharged on their giving
bond, with good and sufficient security, either that they will not depart this State, or for the payment of the eventual condemnation
money.‘

231. Sec. II. In all cases in Equity, when the Judge of any
Circuit may be a party to such suit, or when the complainant will
and shall make an aiiidavit, that the Judge of the Circuit where the
cause is pending, or to be instituted, is interested in the subject matter of such cause in Equity, it shall and may be lawful, for any
Judge of the Superior Courts of this State, to sanction such bills in
Equity and grant such writs of injunction, and others as may be according to law, to etfect the object of such bills.

An Act to authorize the issuing of writs of ne ereat, at the instance
of persons claiming personal property, in remainder and reversion,

and to preserve the rights of such persons.—Approved Dec. 23,
1830. Pam. 126.

232. It shall and may be lawful, for any Judge of the Superior
Court of this State, on application to him by bill, at the instance of
any person, or persons, claiming personal property, in remainder and
reversion, to grant a writ of ne erect, or other sufficient process” to
restrain the person or persons having the, control or possession of
such property, from removing the same beyond the limits of this
State; or to give good and sufiicient security, residing in the County, to the party claiming, in a sufficient penalty to be fixed by such
Judge, that the property shall be subject, and accessible to the demand of the person, or persons, entitled thereto, in the County Wherein such property may be at the time of issuing of such Writ: Provided, that the person or persons, or one of them, suing for the benefit of such Writ, shall make ahiidavit of his, her, or their right to,
and of the value of the property in question; and that he, she, or
they, entertain serious apprehensions, that the property will be removed beyond the limits of this State, and that his, her, or their
rights, will be impaired, unless a remedy be afforded for the preservation thereof.

233. Sec. II. The Superior Court shall at the the term to which

, such writ and bond may be returnable, and at any subsequent term,
.on exceptions to the sntiiciency * of the bond, or of the security, or

onarepresentation on oath, that the securities or some of them, have
removed, or are about to remove, from the County, determine thereon, and may in its discretion, require a new bond, or additional security, for the preservation of the property in controversy; and may
pursue such course therein, and in the matter of said bill, as to justice may seem proper.

An Act supplementary to an Act entitled an Act to regulate the granting of Certioraries and Injunctions in this State, passed Dec. 4,
1811.—Assented to 29th Dec. 1838. Pam. 54.

i 234. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
passing of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any Judge of the Sn'perior Court to sanction or grant any writ of certiorari under the

provisions of the above recited Act, unless such writ of certiorazi
shall be applied for within the term of six months next aher the
case has been determined in the Court below.’

Sec. II. ' All laws and partsof laws that militate against this Act,

be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act to regulate the granting of Certioraries and
Injunctions in this State, passed Dec. 16th, 181l.—Assented to

27th Dec. 1842. Pam. 38.

! 235. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing of
rthis Act, the third section of the above recited Act, be so altered and
amended as to authorize the Judges of the Superior Courts of this
State, to grant injunctions upon such security and under such terms

as in their discretion such case may require.
236. Sec. II. It shall be lawful for a second injunction to be

granted in certain cases, where a previous injunction may have been
dismissed, for cause not connected with the merits of the case, and

when the Judge to whom the application may be made, shall be sat- A

isiied that a second injunction should issue.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws xnilitating against this Act,

be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to enable parties plaintiffs or defendants, in any Court of
this State, to appeal without paying Costs, eye. and also to enable
parties in Justices’ Courts in this State to obtain Certiorarie: without
paying Cost or giving Security, on certain conditions herein mentioned.—-Assented to Dec. 27, 1842. Pam. 13.

Sac. I. [As to Appeals, see Art. III. “Action ;” subdivision “Yerdict,” &c. sec. 150 of this title.]
237. Sec. II. In all cases hereinafter determined, in any of the

Justices’ Courts of this State, on the appeal, and the party cast shall
be dissatisfied with the decision, if such party will make an atiidavit in writing, that he or she is advised and believes that he or she
has good cause for certioraring the same to the Superior Court, and
that owing to his or her poverty, he or she is unable to pay the cost
and give security as required by law, such affidavit shall in every
respect answer instead of the certificate’ of the presiding Justice,
that the cost has been paid and security given as now required by
law; and the Judges of the Superior Courts respectively, shall grant
writs of certiorari on the production of such affidavits, if sufiicient
cause be shown in the petition and affidavit, any- law, usage or custom, to the contrary notwithstanding.’-*

An Act to amend the several Laws of this State in relation to Writs
of C‘ertiorart'.——-Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam. 269.

238. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, in all cases in any of the Justices’ Courts of this State,
when either of the parties shall be dissatisfied with the judgment of
said Court, it shall be lawful asheretofore for said party so dissatified
to apply for and obtain a certiorari on complying with the requisitions heretofore prescribed by law: Provided always, that the petition for certiorari shall not be to the Judge of the Superior Court,
but to the Superior Court, and on being filed in the office of the
Cierlr of the Superior Court, it shall be his duty to issue the writ
directed to the Justices. of the Peace of the district where the decision complained of was made, directing them to certify and send
up the proceedings in the case to the next Superior Court, and in
case the next Superior Court shall sit within twenty days after the
 of said writ, then the said writ shall be returnable to the
next succeeding Court; which said writ shall be served on one of the
said Justices by the party applying for the certiorari, by the Sheriff,
Deputy or any Constable, at least fifteen days previous to the Court
to which the return is to be made ; and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk of the Superior Court to place the case on the certiorari docket, which said docket the Judge of the Superior Court shall take
up and dispose of in its order, under such rules, regulations and restrictions as are now prescribed by law for disposing of certiorari
cases. .

239. Sec. II. That the writs of certiorari granted in each case
under the provisions of the above section, shall operate as a supersedeas of the judgment in the Justices’ Court until the final hearing
in the Superior Court. ,

240. Sec. III. In all cases when the error committed by said
Justices;,Qourt is an error in law, which must finally govern the
case, and in all other cases when the Judge of the Superior Court
shall be satisfied there is no question of fact involved which makes
it necessary to send the case back for a new hearing in the Justices’
Court, then it shall be the duty of said Judge to make a final decisionlon said case without sending it back to the Justices’ Court with 2

Instructions as heretofore.
Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the granting Injunctions in certain cases.-—
Approved Feb. 8, 1850. Pam. 271.

241. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the Judges of the Superior Courts be authorized and empowered to grant writs of injunction without the security now required by law: Provided, the party applying for the same will first
make an affidavit that from his or their poverty they are unable to
give such security.

ART. VI. CITIZENSHIP AND RESIDENCE.’

Sec. 242. Residence; how determined. Sec. 245. Parties.
“ 243. Citizenship; jurisdiction. °‘ 246. Trial; Appeal.
" 244. Petition, Process, &c. “ 2-17. 

An Act to more fully define the legal residence of Citizens and Inhabitants of this Statc.—Assented to Nov. 29, 1838. Pam. 203,

Whereas, no small degree of embarrassment has arisen, and is
likely to arise, from the indefinite manner in which the place of
residence of citizens and inhabitants of this State is defined by
law; for remedy whereof,

242. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the place where the family of any person shall permanently reside, in this State, and the place where any person having no
family, shall generally lodge, shall be held and considered as the
most notorious place of abode of such person or persons respectively.‘

An Act to point out the tribunaland mode for the trial of questions
of Citizenship in certain cases, and to declare what shall be evidence in the same.1‘—Assented to Dec. 19, 1840. Pam. 32.
243. S20. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the

'of this Act, the several Superior Courts of this State shall have jurbdiction over questions of citizenship which may arise in cases hereinafter provided.

244. Sec. II. It shall and maybelawful for any free white citizen to file his petition in said Court, as in suits of a civil nature,
against any person who may claim to exercise the rights and priviqes of a free white citizen of this State, in which he shall distinctly
ullqe that such person so claiming to exercise and enjoy the rights
and rrivileges aforesaid, is of mixed blood, and not a free white
citizen; to which the Clerk of said Court shall annex a process, and a
copy thereof be served on the defendant, in the manneras now provitied for in cases on the Common Law side of said Court: Provided,
that before filing such petition, the person filing the same shall
nuke oath that the facts set forth in it are true according to his or her
belief or knowledge.

245. Sec. III. At anytime any suits may hereafter be pending
under the authority of this Act, it shall be lawful for any person to
make him or herself aparty to it, and prosecute the same, subject
to all the liabilitiesas though he or she had commenced such suit.

246. Sec. IV. All suits institutedasherein provided, shall be tried
by aspecial Jury, at the first term of the Court to which the same
may be returnable, unless continued according to the rules and practice of said Court ; and that final judgment shall not be rendered,
either for or against the defendant, until there shall be two concurring j
verdicts, as in cases of divorce, according to the laws now in force ;‘
and the final judgment so rendered, shall be deemed and held in all
theCourts of this State as conclusive upon the rights and privilegesof said defendant.

247. Sec. V. On the trial of any suit hereafter to be instituted‘
by the authority of this Act, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff to}
move that the defendant is descended from, and stands in the third de-I
gree or generation to him or her who was or is not a free white citi-:
zen of this State, or of any other State whose Constitution and Laws
tolerate involuntary slavery, or that said defendant has one-eighth of
Kegro or African blood in'his or her veins.

ART. VII. CLAIMS‘ AND FORTHCOMING BONDS.

Sec. 248. Forthcoming Bonds. Sec. 253. Forthcoming Bonds.
“ 249. Claizn; Oath; Bond; Burden of " 251.. Rights of plaintifffs.
proof. “ 255. Maldng parties.
" 250. Withdrawal; Appeal. “ 256. Claim by agent or attorney.

I

251. Trial; \V'hen; \.-Vhere. “ 267. Forthcoming Bonds.
%2. Damages, how assessed.

An Act to compel Coroners, Sherifs and Constables to receive securities on certain occasions therein e.z‘p1'essed.—Approved Dec. 16,

1811. Vol. III. 139.

248. See. I. In all cases where a levy is made on property which
is claimed by a third person, and good and sufficient security is tendered by the party claiming the same, it shall be the duty of such Sheriff, Constable or Coroner, to take security for treble’ the amount of the
debt on which such execution is founded, for delivery of the property so levied on, at the time of sale, (Provided, the property so levied
on should be found subject to such executionf) then and in that case,
it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, Coroner or Constable, to leave the
same in the possession of such claimant, and in case the said claimant
or security shall fail to deliver the property at the time and place of
sale agreeably to such bond, it shall be the duty of the officer taking
the same to transfer such bond to the plaintifff in execution,* and said
bond shall be recoverable in any Court of Law or Equity in this
State, having cognizance thereof.

An Act to alter and amend so much of the th2°rty-second section of the
Judiciary, passed the 16th of February, 1799;!’ as respects Claims

of Property in the Superior and I vzferior Courts of this State.——
This Act passed Dec. 15, 1821. Vol. IV. 207.

Whereas, various constructions have been given in the different
Courts of this State, as it regards claims of property, which tend to
the manifest injury of the community, and frequently produced not
only injustice to the plaintifffs in execution, but evidently to oppress
and harrass them by delays of justice ;

249. See. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That when any Sheriff or
Coroner shall levy an executionjj on property claimed by any person
not a party to said execution, such person§ shall make oath to said
property, and it shall be the duty of such Sheriff or Coroner to postpone the sale or future execution of the judgment, until the next.
term of the Court from whence said execution issued: Prot°z'dr:d,
the said execution is or should be levied on personal property; but
should said execution be levied on real property, and the same should
be claimed in manner aforesaid, then and in that case, it shall be the

.duty of the ofheer making the levy upon real property to report the
same, together with the execution and claim, to the next term of the
Superior Court of the County in which the land so levied on shall

lie; and the Court to which such claim shall be reported, shall cause
the right of property to be decided on by a Jury, at the first term, unless special cause be shown to induce said Court to continue the case
for one term, and no longer: Provided, the person claiming such
property, or his agent or attorney, shall give bond to the Sheriif or
Coroner,‘ as the case may be, with good and sufficient security, in a
sum equal to double the amount of the property levied on, at a reasonable valuation, to be judged of by the levying oiiicer, conditioned
to pay the plaintifff all damages which the Jury on the trial of the
right of property may assess against him, in case it should appear
that said claim was made for the purposes of delay ;~ and every Juror on the trial of the claim of property, either real or personal, shall

be sworn, in addition to the oath usually administered,’ to give such

damages, not less than ten per cent,‘ as may seem reasonable and
just, to the plaintiff against the claimant, in.case it shall be sufficiently
shown that said claim was made for delay only; and it shall be lawful
for such Jury to give verdict in marmer aforesaid, by virtue whereof
judgment may be entered up against such claimant and his security
or securities for the damages so assessed by the Jury, and the costs of
the trial of the right of property: And provided also, that the burden of proof shall lie upon the plaintifff in execution in cases where
the property levied on is, at the time of such levy, not in the possesion of the defendant in execution. 9

250. Sec. II. Whenever such claim of property may be made
in terms of this Act, the person claiming property levied on and returned to the proper Court by said Sheriff or Coroner, shall not be
permitted to withdraw or discontinue his said claim, more than once3
without consent and approbation of the plaintifff in execution, or
some person duly authorized to represent such plaintifff, but said
Court shall proceed to the trial of said claim of property in manner
aforesaid, and it shall be the duty of the Jury to award damages accordingly: And provided further, that either party who may be dissatisfied with the verdict of said Jury, may enter his, her or their appeal to a special Jury in the Superior Court of the County where said
trial shall have been had, which appeal shall be subject to the same
rules and regulations as govern in appeals in ordinary cases.

Sec. III. So much of said thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act of 1799, as regards claims of property, which may militate
against this Act, is hereby repealed.

An Act to provide for the trial of Claims of Slaves levied on under
E.vecution.—Approved Dec. 7, 1824. Vol. IV. 215.

o 251. In all cases where a writ of execution from a Justice’s Court

-rshall have been levied on one or more slaves, and a claim to such

,slaves shall have been interposed according to the laws in force for

‘the time being, such execution and claim shall be returned to the

Enext term of the Superior or Inferior Conrt whichever may first
happen, of the County in which such execution was issued, and
shall be there tried in the same manner as other claims which by
law are or shall be returnable to those Courts respectively.‘

An Act to define and make certain the mode Q/‘assessing Damages upon
the trial of Claims of Property in the Superior and Izgferior Court: is
this State.—Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol. IV. 224.

252. Whereas, doubts have been entertained whether upon the
.trial of claims of property, damages should be assessed upon the
amount of the execution, or the value of the property claimed, or
upon the amount of the claim-bond; for remedy whereof,

. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage of
'this Act, upon claims of property now pending, or which may be
hereafter pending in the Superior or Inferior Courts of this State,
where damages shall be found by [the] Jury, the said damages shall
be assessed upon the whole amount then due upon the execution
levied: Provided, the value of the property in dispute exceeds
the amount of said execution; and upon the value of the property claimed when the same is less than the amount of the execution levied; any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstandmg.

An Act to make valid the Boztds taken by the Sherifs of this State,
and their Deputies, Coroners and Constables from defendants in
execution, for the delivery of prqaerty levied on by them.—Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol. IV. 409.

253. From and after the passing of this Act, all bonds taken by
the Sheriffs of this State, or their Deputies, or Coroners, or Constables, from defendants in execution, for the delivery of property on
the day of sale or at any other time, which they may have levied on
by virtue of any ji. fa. or other legal process from any Court, be,
and the same are hereby declared to be good and valid in Law, and
recoverable in any Court in this State having jurisdiction thereof.

254. Sec. II. The bonds taken in conformity with the first sec-:
tion of this Act shall in no case prejudice or affect the rights of 3
plaintifffs in execution, but shall relate to and have effect alone be-;
tween the Sherids, their Deputies, the Coroners, and the Constables,
and defendants by whom given; and the Sheritf shall in [no]
cueexcuse himself for not having made the money on any execution by having taken such bond, but shall be liable to be ruled as
now prescribed by law.‘

.4: Act to amend the several Acts regulating Attachments in this State.‘

and to regulate proceedings in certain cases, when the plaintff shall
die ajlerrendition Q/judgment.-—Passed Dec. 29, 1836. Pam. 36.

Secs. I. to V. [See “Attachment and Garnishment,” 46 to 51.]
255. SEC. VI. In all cases where any claim shall be interposed?
for property levied on by virtue of a iieri facias, from any of the
Courts of this State, and pending such claim, the plaintifff shall die,
it shall and may be lawful for the executor or executors, administrator or administrators of such deceased plaintifff, upon motion, in the
Court where such claim is pending, to be made parties, instanter,
and the said case shall proceed without further delay: Provided, the
said executors or administrators, shall produce in Court, their letters
testamentary or of administration ; and, 1n°om'ded, they shall give to
the claimant, or his, attorney, twenty days’ notice of the said intendedapplication to make such parties. And provided always, in such
cases, where there are more than one plaintifff, the cause shall proceed
in the name of the survivor, and this Act shall not be applicable, exoept when the last surviving plaintifff shall die while such claim is
pending.
Sac. VII. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the Claim Laws now in force in this SIate.—Assented to Dec 21, 1839. Pam. 139.

256. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That upon the levy of any execution hereafter to be made, upon any property, whether real or per801131, it shall be lawful for any person or persons desiring to claim
the same, to do so by him, her or themselves, his, her or their agent
or attorney, in the same manner, and under the same restrictions, as
are provided for the issuing of attachment.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to be entitled an Act to alter and amend the Claim Laws of
this State.-Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 128.

z 157'. Be it enacted, That in all cases of claim, whether the levy

rbe made under attachment or execution, the amount of any bond
given for the forthcoming of the property levied on shall be in double
the value of such property, to be estimated by the levying oiiicer ;
and all such bonds shall be made payable to the plaintifff in attachment or execution, who may sue and recover on the same, upon
breach of the condition thereof.

ART. VIII. COMPUTATION OF TIME.

An Act to alter the mode of computing time in certain cases.—As—
sented to 28th Dec. 1838. Pam. 70.

a 258. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, in all cases whatsoever, where time is required to be computed by the month or by months, the computation shall be by the
calendar month and not by the lunar month: Provided always, that
this Act shall not affect rights or interests accrued before its passage.

IX. CORONERS AND INQUESTS.‘

Sec. 259. Coroner's oath. Sec. 268. Return of inquest.
“ 260. Deaths in prisons and elsewhere. “ 269. Evidence and witnesses.
" 261. Precept for Jury. " 270. Neglect of duty—Fine.
f‘ 262. Execution by Bailiff. “ 271. Bond.
" 263. Report to Inferior Court. “ 272. Fees.
" 264. Juror failing-Fine. “ 273. Summons of Jury.
“ 265. Verdict by majority. " 274. Removal of Body.

" 266. Duty and powers of Jury. “ 275. Fees of Physician.
“ 267. Process for witnesses. .

An Act concerning Coroners and I nquests.—Approved Dec. 22, 1823,
Vol. IV. 404. .

Whereas, much inconvenience is now felt from the existing laws
on the subject of the duties and powers of Coroners;

259. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passing
of this Act, every person who shall be elected to the office of Coroner shall, before he enters upon the execution of the duties of his
oiiice, take the following oath or atiirmation, to-wit: I, A B, Coronet of the County of , do solemnly swear or atiirm (as the
case may be,) that'I will well and truly serve the State of Georgia
in the office of Coroner of said County; that I will, to the utmost of
my power, faithfully and truly execute, or cause to be executed, all
writs and precepts to me directed and which shall come to my hands,
and will faithfully and truly return the same, according to the best
of my knowledge, skill, and judgment; that I will in no case knowingly use or exercise the said office illegally, corruptly, or unjustly ;
that I will neither directly or indirectly, by any means or device, or
under any color or pretense whatsoever, accept, receive, take, use,
or enjoy, or consent to the accepting, using, receiving, taking, or enjoying any fee or reward of or from any person or persons whomsoever, for the summoning, empanelling, or returning of any inquest,
Jury, or ta.les to or in any Court for this State, or between party and
Qty, other than such fees or rewards as are or shall be allowed by
law for the same ; and that I will not directly or indirectly exact or
demand any manner of ‘fee or reward from any person or persons for
serving, executing, or returning any writ, precept, process, execution,
or inquisition, or for any other service in my said office, other than
such fees or rewards as are or shall be allowed for the same by law,
but that I will in all cases and things touching the duties of the said
office demean myself honestly,‘ fairly, andiirnpartially, according to
the best of my knowledge, skill, and judgment. '
260. Sec. II. Every Coroner shall, upon view of the body, take;
inquests of deaths in prisons, provided such death happened sudden-.
ly or violently, and without an attending physician, unless such death 3
be attended by suspicious circumstances ; and of all violent, sudden,J
or casual deaths within his Comity, and the manner of such deaths.
261. Sec. Ill. The Coroner as soon as he shall have notice, or!
be certified of any death as aforesaid, shall make out a precept di-1
rected to any Constable of the County where the dead body is found:
or lying, requiring him to summon a Jury of inquest composed of ;
good and lawful men from the Captain’s district within which the said ;
baly may be reported to lie, or from an adjoining district of said(
County, if necessary, to appear before him at the time and place in:
arch precept mentioned and contained, which precept shall be in form }
following: County, towit: The State of Georgia to any lawful:
Constables of , of the said County. You are required immedi-'.
ately, upon sight hereof, to summon good and lawful men from '
—-— district, or an adjoining district if necessary, of the County of
——-, to be and appear before me, A B, the Coroner of the County
aforesaid, at , in the said district of said County, on the
day of , at the house of , in the —noon of the same day,
then and there to inquire of, do, and execute all such things as, on“
behalf of the State, shall be given them in charge, touching the
death of (or a person unknown, as the case may be,) and be
you then and there to certify what you shall have done in the premises, and further to do and execute what in behalf of the said State
dlall be then and there enjoined upon you: in the said County, this
—- day of , in the year of our Lord .
262. Sec IV. The Constable to whom melt precept shall be

directed and delivered shall forthwith execute the same, and shall
repair to the place at the time mentioned therein, and make retumof
the precept, with his proceedings thereon, to the Coroner."'

A 263. Sec. V. It shall bethe duty of the Coroner to certify and
Ireturn every Constable who shall neglect or refuse to execute the ser'vices and duties, or any of them, by this Act prescribed, to the next
Inferior. Court to be held in and for the County ; which Court, unless a reasonable excuse be offered, shall set such fine upon the Constable olfending as they shall think fit and reasonable, not exceeding
fifty dollars.

- t 264. Sec. VI. When any Juror shall be summoned as aforesaid
‘and shall fail to attend, that then and in that case the said defaulting
Juror shall forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding ten dollars, to be levied by execution under the hand and seal of said Coroner, unless
such defaulting Juror shall show good and sufficient cause of excusl
within ten days after said default, to be made on oath before any
Justice of the Peace, and filed in the office of the Clerk of the Inferior Court, the merits of which excuse shall be determined by the
next Inferior Court thereafter.

. 265. Sec. VII. The Coromer shall swear or affirm twelve of the
said Jurors, who shall appear, seven of whom shall be competent to
return a verdict ; and shall administer‘ to the foreman of the inquest
an oath or aliirmation upon view of the body, in form following :'-You, as foreman of the inquest, shall diligently inquire and true presentment make, on behalf of the State of Georgia, how and in what
manner , or a person deceased, unknbwn, as the case may be,
here lying dead, came to his death, and of such other matters relating to the same as shall be lawfully required of you, according to
evidence: and then shall swear or afiirm, by three at a time, in or
der, the rest of the Jurors in form following: Such oath or allirma-.
tion as the foreman of this inquest hath taken on his part, you and every of you shall well and truly observe and keep on your part.

266. Sec. VIII. When the Jurors are sworn or affirmed, as afore'said, the Coroner shall charge them on their oath or affirmation to
declare if the death of the person, whether he or she, died by mur—der, manslaughter, misadvepture, misfortune, accident or otherwise;
and who, and when, and by what means, and in what manner; and
if by murder, who were principals and who were accessaries ; and if
by manslaughter, who were the perpetrators and with what instru*ment the stroke or wound was in either case given; and so of all
prevailing circumstances which may come by presumption. And if
by misadventure, misfortune, accident or otherwise, whether by the
act of God or man; and whether by hurt, fall, stroke, drowning, or
in any other way; to inquire what persons were present at the death,‘
from whence the deceased came, and who he or she was, and his or
her parents, relations, or neighbors; who were the finders of the
body; whether killed in the same place where he or she was found,
or if elsewhere, by whom and how he or she was brought from
thence, and of all circumstances relating to the said death; and if

he or she died in prison, whether by hard usage there or not, and if
so, how and by whom; and if he or she, put an end to his or her
own life, then to inquire of the manner, means, or instrument, and of
all circumstances concerning it.

267. Sec. IX. It shall be lawful for every Coroner to issue procos for witnesses, commanding them to come before him to be examined, and to declare their knowledge concerning the matter in
question; and the said Coroner shall administer _to every witness an
oath or afiinnation, in form following: You solemnly swear (or afErm) that the evidence which you shall give this inquest, on behalf
of the State, touching the deathof C. D. (or a person unknown, as
the case is,) shall be the tmth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth.

268. Sac. X. All Coroners shall deliver their inquisitions to the
next Superior Courts of their respective Counties, and the said Courts
shall proceed thereon against the olfender.

269. Sec. XI. Every Coroner, upon any inqnisition before him
found, whereby any person or persons shall be indicted of murder or
manslaughter, or as accessary or accomplice to the said crime of murder, either before or after the fact, shall put in writing the effect of
so much of the evidence given to the Jury before him as shall be’
material ; and every such Coroner is hereby authorized and required to bind all such by recognizance as do declare any thing material,
to prove the said murder or manslaughter, or to prove any person or‘
persons accessary or accessaries, as aforesaid, to the said murder, to
appear at the next Superior Court of the County where the trial
thereof shall be, then and there to give evidence against such offender or offenders at the time of his, her, or their trial ; and shall certify as well as the same evidence as such recognizance or recognizances in writing as he shall takeftogether with the inqnisition be-fore him taken, and forward to the said Superior Court at or before
the time of the trial of the party or parties indicted.

270. Sec. XII. If any Coroner be remiss, and do not take in-;
quisition as aforesaid, or do not certify as is before directed, or shall:
offend in anything contrary to the true intent and meaning of this?
Act, the Superior Court of the County where such offense shall be‘
committed, upon due proof thereof, by examination before them,
shall for every such offense set such fine upon the said Coroner as
the said Court shall think fit and reasonable, not exceeding $500.

271. Sec. XIII. The said Coroner shall, before entering on the‘
duties of his office, give bond and security as is prescribed in the}
case of Sheriffs, in the sum of 3500, except in the Counties of }
Chatham and Richmond, where the penalty of said bonds shall be;
82,000

272. Sac. XIV. The Coroner and Constable serving the process:
iiall each receive, in addition to the fees now prescribed by law, the
sum of fifty cents on each execution collected; and that the Constable summoning the Jury shall receive the sum of one dollar.

Sac. XV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
he, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act concerning Coroners and
* Inquests, passed Dec. 22d, 1823.—Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam.
123.

' 273. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after
'the passage of this Act,,it shall be lawful for the Coroners of the several Counties of this State to summon the Jury or any part thereof
himself, if the services of a Constable cannot be conveniently obtained.
. 274. Sec. 2. When it shall so happen that a body lies in an inconvenient place, it shall be lawful for the Coroner to remove the
body to a place more convenient to hold the inquest.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to compensate Physicians and Surgeons who shall be summoned by the Sherijf or Coroner of the County to make post mortem examinations for the information of Juries of inquest.-Approved Feb. 23d, 1850. Pam. 335.

275. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
.this Act, it shall be lawful for every physician and surgeon who shall
‘be summoned by the Sheriif or Coroner of the County to make post
mortem examinations for the information of Juries of inquest, to
charge and receive from the Treasurer of the County the sums [following,] to wit: For each post mortem examination, where death has
resulted from external violence, where no dissection is required, the
sum often dollars ; for the same, where dissection is necessary, and
where no interment of the body has been made, twenty dollars; for
the same, after one or more days’ of interment, thirty dollars; for the
same, where any chemical analysis is required, the sum of fifty dollars,
and the expense of such analysis : Provided, That the compensation
allowed in this Act shall not extend to more than one physician for
each post mortem examination.ART. X. CORPORATIONS.‘

Sec. 276. Notice of Suit. Sec. 283. Petition for Incorporation.
“ 277. Judgment and execution. “ 284. Powers granted.
“ 278. Presidentto furnish List. “ 285. Limitation 14 years.
“ 279. On failure—Pena1t_v. “ 286. Change of Names.
" 280. Defence by Stockholder. " 287. Fees of Clerk.

“ 281. Aiiidavit of Illegality. “ 288. Extendedto all Corporations.
" 282.‘ Remedy--Cumulative.

An Act to facilitate the collectien of debts against I ncorporations and
lheszocklwlders thereof—Assented to Dec. 10, 1841. Pam. 130.

276. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for,
plaintifffs or complainants, within one month after the institution of 1
any suit or suits at Law or Equity against any incorporation, joint;
stock or manufacturing Company, to publish once a week for four.
successive weeks, in some public gazette of this State, notice of the}
commencement of said suit or suits, and said publication shall operate as notice to each stockholder in said incorporation, joint stock,
or manufacturing company, for the purposes hereinafter mentioned.

277. Sec. II. When notice has been given as aforesaid, and a‘
judgment or decree has been obtained against any incorporation, I
joint stock or manufacturing company, where the individual or pri-‘,
vate property of the stockholders is bound for the payment of the;
whole or any part of the debts of said company, execution shall first
issue against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of said company; and upon the return thereof by the proper officer, with the
entry ‘- no corporate property to be found,” endorsed thereon, thatf
then and in that case it shall be the duty of the Clerk or other offi-1*
cer, upon application of the plaintifff, his agent. or attorney, accompanied with a certificate, as hereinafter directed to be obtained, forthwith to i:=.5ue an execution against each of the said stockholders (if
required) for their rateable part of the said debt and costs of suit, in
proportion to their respective shares or other liabilities under their
charter of incoporation.

278. Sec. III. It shall be the duty of the president, or presiding
officer, by whatever name he may be designated, upon application of
the plaiszthf, his agent or attorney, forthwith to give a certificate under o:.t‘:n cf the names of the stockholders in said company, and
the number of shares owned by each at the time of the rendition of
judgnm.-t agziinst said company.

279. Size. IV. If upon application by the plaintifff, his agent, or
attorn"§.'. to the president or presiding officer as aforesaid, he shall refuse to give a certificate asaforesaid, or shall abscond or conceal himself to It“."Ulli giving the same, and oath being made by the plaintifff,
his af._>:‘u1i; or.‘ attorney, of said refusal, the Clerk or other officer is hereby re. -,-.:m,:»:l to issue execution against said president or presiding officer a~ aforesaid, for the amount of principal, interest and cost of said
Suit.

280. Sac. _V. If the president, directors, or other officers of said
comprmy shall fail or refuse to defend said suit or suits, brought as
aforesaid, any one or more of the stockholders of said eompany,_shall
be peemitted by the Court, before which said suit or suits is pending,

to plcrari to and defend the same, in as full and ample a manner as
said cninpan y in its corporate character could plead to and defend the
same. V

281. See. VI. The defendant or defendants in execution, under
the prcn.'i:;ions of this Act, shall be entitled to an illegality,,under the
same mics, regulations and restrictions as defendants are in other cases under the existing laws of this State.

282. Sec. VII. This Statute shall be understood and construed
as cumulative of the Common Law ; and that all laws and parts of
laws militating against the same, and this construction thereof, be,
and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to point out the manner of creating certain Corporations,’ to
define their rights and privileges, and to provide a mode of changing
the names of indim'duals.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1843. Pam. 108.

283. See. I. Be it enacted, That when the persons interested
shall desire to have any church, camp-ground, academy, school,
volunteer, military company, manufacturing company, trading company, ice company, fire company, theatre company, or hotel company, bridge and ferry companyf incorporated-, they shall petition in
writing the Superior or Inferior Court of the County where such as.sociation may have been formed, or may desire to transact business
for that purpose, setting forth the object of their association and the
privilege they desire to exercise, together with the name and style
by which they desire to be incorporated; and said Court shall pass a
rule or order directing said petition to be entered of record on the
minutes of said Court.

284. Sec. II. When such rule or order is passed, and said petition is entered of record, the said companies or’ associations shall
have power respectively, under and by the name designated in their
petition, to have and use a common seal, to contract and be contracted with, to sue and be sued, to answer and be answered unto, in any
Court of Law or Equity, to appoint such officers as they may deem
necessary, and to make such rules and regulations as they may think
proper for their own government, not contrary to the laws of this
State; but shall make no contracts or purshase, or hold any property
of any kind, except such as may be absolutely necessary to carry into effect the object of their incorporation. Nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to confer banking or insurance privileges
.on any company or association herein enumerated; and the individual members of such manufacturing, trading, theatre, ice, and hotel
companies, shall be bound for the eventual payment of all the contracts of said companies as in case of partnership.

285. Sec. III. No company or association shall be incorporated
_under this Act for a longer period than fourteen years, but the same

may be renewed whenever necessary, according to the provisions of
the first section of this Act.

r 286. Sec. IV. The said Superior or Inferior Court shall have
power and authority, upon petition in Writing, to change the name
of any individuals, by rule or order, for that purpose: Provided, such
individual shall have resided in the County where his or her application is made for at least one year previous thereto, and shall give

at least three months’ prior notice in one of the nearest newspapers,
and at the Courthouse door of said County, of the intended applica-‘
tion.

-287. Ste. V. For. entering any of said petitions and orders on the:
minutes of the Court, and iurnishing a certified copy thereof, the
Clerk shall be entitled to a fee of five dollars, except in cases of application by individuals, for the change of names, in which case the
Clerk of said Court shall be entitled to the fee of one dollar, and that
such certified copy shall be evidence of the matters therein stated in
any Court of Law or Equity in this State. .

Sec. VI. All laws or parts of laws rnilitating against this Act,
beand the same are hereby repealed.

8

An Act to extend the provisions of the Act passed on the twenty-eighth
day of Dec. 1843, entitled an Act to point out the manner of crew!ing certain Cowporations, to define their rights and privileges, and to
provided mode of changing the names of individuals.—Approved
Dec. 29, 1845. Pam. 18.

288. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That the provisions of said Act, so
far as the same relates to corporations, be and the same are hereby extendedto all associations and companies whatsoever, except banks
and insurance companies, and that the individual members of such
associations and companies, when incorporated under said Act or un(let this Act, shall be liable, as therein specified, for the contracts of
said associations or companies, whenever any such associations or

companies are incorporated for the purpose of trading or transacting
business for profit.

"ART. x1. IIABEA8 CORPUS.‘

Sec 290. Jurisdiction over. Sec. 292. Jail fees not paid.
" 291. Majority of Inferior Court.

Judiciary Act of l7'99.—Vol. 1. 292.

290. Sec. VII. The Judges of the Superior Courts, or any one
of them, and the Justices of the Inferior Courts or any of them1' in
the absence of the Judges of the Superior Courts, shall have power
toissue Writs of habeas corpus; and in all cases to discharge, admit
tobail, or remand to jail, any prisoner, according to their discretion
and the law of the land: Provided, that in all cases of a capital

nature where a writ of habeas corpus shall be issued by a Justice af
the Inferior Court, it shall be necessary that one or more of the Juatices of such Inferior Court shall associate with the Justice grantilg
the same, at the return thereof, and a majority of such Justices shall
concur in opinion on any decision or order aforesaid; and it shall
be the duty of such Justices to attend, on one day’s notice being
given of the time and place of the return of such writ.

An Act to amend the seventh section of an Act, entitled an Act to.

amend an Act, entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary
System of this State, passed the 16th day of February, 1799; and
to provide for opening and adjourning the several Courts of Ordinary in this State in certain cases.—Approved Dec. 20, 1823.
Vol. IV. 211.

291. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any one ormore of the Justices of the Inferior Courts of this
‘State to discharge or admit to bail any person under a writ of habeas
"corpus, unless a majority of the Justices of said Court shall concur
in opinion.
Sec. II. [See “ Executors, Administrators,” 6Lc. sec. 12.]

An Act to authorize and empower the Justices of the Inferior Courts
of this State to discharge Criminals or Ofenders against the
Law from Jail in certain cases, and also to discharge defendants
in certain Civil cases.—Approved Dec. 29, 1847. Pam. 196.

Sec. I. [See “Penal Laws,” sec. 415.]

292. Sec. II. If any person or persons be imprisoned in the
common Jail of any County in this State, on a mesne or final process for debt, if the plaintifff in suit or execution,’ his agent or attorne y, does not pay up, at the end of each and every week, the Jail
fees which have accrued, then and in that case the-Inferior Court
may, and they are hereby authorized to discharge the defendant or
defendants by Writ of habeas corpus.“

Sec. III. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. XII. JOINT TENANTS.

An Act to abolish the Right qf Survivarsltip in Joint Tenants in
this State.——Approved Dec. 17, 1828. Vol. IV. 222. ‘

Whe:'eas, it is doubtful whether the right of survivorship, as un‘-.
der the English law, does not still exist in this State, in all estates
of joint tenancy;

293. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this Act,:
when two or more persons shall hold and possess any estate of lands?
in joint tenancy in this State, and one or more of said joint tenants‘
may depart thislife during the existence of said estate, the title or
interest of the deceased joint tenant in said estate shall not go and
become the property of the surviving joint tenant or tenants, as
under the English law, but that the same shall be distributed as all
other estates are, under the existing laws of this State.

All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act, are hereby

re

ART. XIII. J URIES3

. Petit Jurors-qualification. Sec. 303. Clergymen excused.

Sec. 294

" 295. Selection of Petit Jury. “ 307. Special Juries; striking.

“ 296. Drawing of Juries. “ 308. Their oath.

" 297. Number of Grand J urors, &c. “ 300. Grand J uror’s oath.

“ 298. Precept. " 310. Drawing by Inferior Court.

“ 299. Smnmons—'lirne. “ 311. Juriesfor Inferior Court.

*‘ 300. Defnulting Jurors. “ 312. Drawn at any time.

“ 301. Petit Jurors—Oath. “ 313. Oath of Grand Juror explained.
“ 302. Special Juries for new trials. “ 314. BailiH"s oath.

“ 303. Selection of Grand Jurors. “ 315. Food, &c. for Juries:

" 30!. Judgeto draw. “ 316. Bai1itl"s fee.

“ 305. Court tailing, Juries stand. “ 317. Justices Inferior Court exempt.

Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol.1. 292.—[For title, see sec. 37.]

294. Sec. XXXVHI. The Clerks of the Superior Courts of
the respective Counties, shall procure from the tax collector of
such County, and furnish to the Court, (within two months,) a list
of persons liable and qualified to serve as Grand and Petit Jurors
agreeable to the qualifications hereinafter prescribed,1' and all free

male white citizens above the age of twenty-one years, and under
sixty years} are declared to be qualified and liable to serve as Petit
Jurors for the trial of all civil causes for recovery of debts or damages, to any amount whatsoever; but no person shall be capable to
be of a Jury for the trial of treason, felony, breach of the peace, or
any other cause of a criminal nature, or of any estate of freehold,
or of the right or title to any lands or tenements, in any Court of
record within this State, who shall not be qualified to vote at elections for members of the Legislature; and if any person not qualilied as aforesaid, shall be returned on any Jury, he shall be discharged on the challenge and proof thereof, of either of the parties to such

'suit, or on his own oath, of the truth thereof : Provided, that no exception against any Juror, on account of his qualification, shall 'be
allowed after he is sworn.‘

295. Size. XXXIX. The Clerks of the several Courts are required in presence, or under the direction of the Judge or Judges
of such Court, to regulate and correct the several Jury lists annually,
by particularly specifying in distinct columns, the persons most able,
discreet and qualified, as herein mentioned, to serve as Grand Jurors; which list so corrected, shall be committed to the safe-keeping
of the Clerks of such Courts respectively; and the Clerks of such
Courts shall immediately after receiving such lists, fairly enter the
same in a book for that purpose, to be provided by such Clerk (at his
own expense,) distinguishing in separate columns, the persons selected to serve as Grand Jurors, and those for the trial of civil and criminal causes as aforesaid; and the names of the persons so selected,
shall be written on separate pieces of paper and put into the different apartments of a Jury box, to be provided by the Clerk, at the
public expense, in the construction and manner hereinafter prescribed, to-w'it: there shall be an apartment in the said Jury box marked No. 1, in which shall be placed the names of all the persons selected to serve as Grand Jurors, and another apartment marked No.
2, into which shall be placed the names of all persons selected for
the trial of civil and criminal causes as aforesaid; which box shall
be kept locked, and no Jury shall be drawn or impanneled, but in the
presence of one or more of the Judges and Clerk of the Court; nor
shall any Clerk of the Court or other person having the custody of
the Jury box, presume, on any pretense whatsoever, to open the said
Jury box, transpose or alter the names, except it be in the presence
of the Judge or Justices officially attending for the purpose of drawing Jurors, or correcting the list, under penalty of being dealt with
in the manner herein pointed out for malpractice in office.1'

296. Size. XL. The said Judge or Justices and Clerk of the
Court or person having custody of the key, shall, previous to the
adjournment of any Superior Court, or at least two months prior to

thesitting of the next Court-, cause to be drawn out of the apartment of the said box marked No. 1, not less than twenty-three, nor
more than thirty-six names, as Grand Jurors; and out of the apartment marked No. 2, not less than forty-eight, nor more than seventytwo names, as Petit Jurors, for the trial of civil and criminal causes
as aforesaid; which names so drawn out shall, after an account is
taken of them, at each term or time of drawing, be carefully rolled
up again, and deposited in the two other apartments to be provided in
such Jury box, marked Nos. 3 and 4, to-wit: the names of the Grand
Jurors in the division No. 3, and the names of the Petit Jurors in the
division No. 4; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartments Nos. 1 and 2 aforesaid, they shall then commence drawing from the apartments Nos. 3 and 4, and return them into the
Nos. 1 and 2, and so on alternately.

297. Sec. XLI. No Grand Jury shall consist of less than eigh-.
teen or more than twenty-three, but twelve may find abill or make?
a presentment. And the names of the several Jurors to be drawn as}
aforesaid, shall immediately after they are drawn out, be entered by;
the Clerk on the minute book of such Court, and if it shall so:
happen, that from any unavoidable circumstance, the Judge shall.
not attend at the time appointed for holding the Superior Court of ,
any County, he shall nevertheless attend in person for the purpose
of drawing J urors,,or shall transmit to the Justices of the Inferior
Court of such County, a request in writing, that they, or any two of
them, attend atthe Clerk’s office, on some convenient day, at least.
two months preceding the next term, for the purpose of drawing
Grand and Petit Jurors in manner hereinbefore directed; and the
said Judges of the Superior Courts are declared to be responsible for
the legal and regular drawing of Juries in the respective Circuits in
which they may preside. And in case of such unavoidable circumstance, specially stated by any Judge of the Superior Court, the said
Justices. or any two of them, shall and are hereby required, to conform to such request, by attending and drawing Juries agreeably
to this Act.’ (Proviso temporary.) 298. Sec. XLII. The Clerk of the Court shall annex a pannel
of the Jury, containing the names of the persons drawn to serve on
the Grand Inquest, exactly transcribed from the minute-hook to the
precept for summoning such Grand Jury; and shall also annex another
pannel containing the names of the persons drawn as Petit Jurors for
the trial of civil and criminal cases, exactly transcribed as aforesaid,
to the precept for summoning the P.etit Jurors, in the mandatory part
of which precept shall be written, the words following, viz : “ The
several persons named in the pannel hereunto annexed,” which pre-..
cept, with the several pannels annexed as aforesaid, shall be delivered
by the Clerk of the Court within three days after the drawing of such.
Juries asaforesaid, to the Sheriff of the County or his Deputy.

299. Sec. XLIII. The Sheriff or his lawful Deputy for the
time being, upon the receipt of any precept for summoning Grand
or Petit Jurors, shall cause the several persons whose names are

e written in the pannel thereunto annexed, to be served with a summons, at least ten days before the sitting of the Court for which they
are drawn and impanneled ; which summons shall be in the following
words, or words to that effect: “ By virtue of the precept to me directed, you are hereby commanded to appear before the Judge of the
Superior Court, at the next Superior Court to be held at the Courthouse in and for the County of , on the———day of , at ten
o’clock in the forenoon of that day, to be sworn on the Grand Jury
(or as a Juror for the trial of civil and criminal causes then and there
depending, as the case may be :”) which shall be signed by the Sheriff or his lawful Deputy for the time being ; which Sheriff or lawful
Deputy aforesaid, shall make return of all such precepts, in each of
which he shall set forth the names of all such persons as shall have
been summoned by virtue of such writs or precepts, and the time when
they were summoned, and also the names of the persons whom he
may not have summoned, together with the reasons why they were
not summoned, on pain of being fined by the Court.

300. Sec. XLIV. The Clerk of the Court shall make due entry
inthe minute book of such Court, of the appearance of all Jurors,
and shall likewise enter and make report of the names of all such

as shall make default in appearing; that if any person who shall be
drawn, impanneled, summoned, and returned to serve as Jurors at

any Court as aforesaid, shall neglect or refuse to appear, or after appearance shall refuse to serve, or shall absent himself without leave
of the Court, then and in that case, it shall be lawful for the Court
to fine such person, if a Petit Juror, in a sum not exceeding twenty
dollars, and if a Grand Juror, in a sum not exceeding forty dollars,
unless such Juror shall show good and sufficient cause of excuse, to
be made on oath before any Justice of the Peace, and filed in the
Clerk’s office of such Court, within thirty days after opening the
said Court ; the merits of which excuse shall be determined by the
next succeeding Court ; and when from challenge or otherwise there
shall not be sufficient number of Jurors to determine any civil or
criminal cause,* the Court may order the Sheriff or his Deputy, to
summon by-standers or others,‘ qualified as hereinbefore required, for
the trial of such cause or causes, sufiiicient to complete the pannel ;
and when the Sheriff or his Deputy are disqualified from acting in
the manner herein expressed, Jurors shall be summoned by the Coroner, or such other disinterested person as the Court may appoint.
301. Sec. XLV. The oath to be administered to'Petit Jurors in
civil cases shall be in the form fdlowing: “ You, (A B) shall well
and truly try the causes depending between the parties at variance,
and a true verdict give according to evidence : so help you God.”
Sec. LVI. When a cause shall be committed to a special Jury,
the oath to be administered‘ shall be in the words following, viz:
(oath amended 1811, sec. 308.) And the same oath to be administered to Juries on appeals.

302. Sec. LVIII. All new trials shall be had by a special Jury’,
to be taken from the Grand Jury list of the County, and struck in
the presence of the Court, in the following manner.* The Clerk
shall produce a list of the original pannel of Grand Jurors, returned
to the term in which such trial shall be had, from which the parties or
their attorneys, shall alternately strike out. one until only twelve shall
remain, who shall forthwith be impanneled and sworn to try the
cause ; and in all cases the party applying for such new trial, shall
strike first; and in case of refusal in either to strike, on the cailing
of the cause, the Judge presiding shall order some officer of the
Court, or other person, to proceed to strike the said Jury in the
same manner as the party refusing might or could have done. And
it shall be the duty of all persons summoned on the Grand Jury to
attend the Courts for the purpose of determining such new trials,
whether they be sworn on the Grand Jury or not.

An Act for the better selection and drawing Grand Juries for the
several Counties in this State.—Approved Dec. 7', 1805. Vol.
II. 272.1 '

303. See. I. It shall be the duty of the Justices of the Inferior
Courts of each County, together with the Sheriff and Clerk, or a
majority of them, to convene at the Court-house of their respective
Counties, on the first l\r.Ioudny in June next, and biennially on the
Erst Monday in June tllercztlter, whose duty it shall be to select from
the books of the receiver of tax returns, for their respective Counties, fit and proper persons to serve as Grand Jurors ; and shall make
a list of persons so selected, and transmit it under their hands to the
next Superior Court of their respective Counties; and it shall be the
duty of the Judge then presiding, to cause the Clerk of the said
Superior Court to make our tickets, with the names of the persons
so selected, which tickets shall be put in a box to be provided by the
Clerk at the public expense, which said box shall have two apartments, marked number one and two; and the Clerks of said Courts

' shall, immediately after receiving such lists, fairly enter the same in

a book for that purpose, to be provided at his own expense, distinguishing in separate columns the persons liable to serve as Grand
Jurors, and those for the trial of civil and criminal causes, as pointed
out by law; which said but»: shall be locked and sealed up by the
Judge, and placed in the care of the Clerk, and the key in the care of
the Sheriff, and no Grand Jury shall be drawn and impanneled, but
in the presence of the Judge in open Court, nor shall any Clerk of
the Court, or other person having the custody of the Jury box, presume, on any pretense whatever, to open'the said Jury box, transpose, or alter the names, except it be by the direction of the Judge in
open Court, attending for the purpose of drawing Jurors, under the
penalty of being dealt with in the manner pointed out by law for
malpractice in office.

304. Sec. II. The said Judge, in open Court, shall unlock and

‘break the seal, and cause to be drawn out of the apartment of the
said box marked number one, not less than twenty-three, nor more
than thirty-six names, to serve as Grand Jurors, which names so drawn
out shall, after an account is taken of them, at each time of drawing, be carefully deposited in the other apartment of such box, marked number two; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartment number one as aforesaid, they shall then commence drawing from the apartment number two, and return them into number
one, and so on alternately; but no name so deposited shall, on any
pretense whatever, be destroyed, except it is Within the knowledge

of the Judge that the said Juror is either dead, removed out of the
County, or otherwise disqualified by law, or the Sheriff certify the’

same.
I 305. Sec. III. If it shall so happen, that there should be a failure of the Court in consequence of the non-attendance of the Judge,
then, and in that case, the Jurors being summoned shall stand over
to the next succeeding term, in the same manner as suitors and witnesses ‘do in like cases: Provided always, that if the said Justices,
iSheriff and Clerk aforesaid, shall fail to make such selection on the
‘day aforesaid, that then it shall be the duty of the said Justices,
'Sheriff and Clerk aforesaid, or a majority of them, to make such selection at or before the next Superior Court thereafter, which shall

be held in their respectiveCounties.
Sec. IV. So much of an Act entitled “an Act to amend an Act

entitled an Act to revise and amend the Judiciary system of this
State,” passed at Louisville, the 16th day of February, 1799, as militates against this Act, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

An Act to give relief to all ordained Ministers of the Gospel, so jar
as respects their serving as Jurors, or doing Militia duty.——Ap.
proved Dec. 12, 1809. Vol. II. 531.

Sec. I. [Respecting militia duty. See Militia, sec. 41.]

306. Sec. II. The Judges of the Superior Courts, the Justices
‘of the Inferior Courts, and Justices of the Peace, are hereby authorized, on application, to excuse them from service on the Juries of
their different Courts, the application to be made in writing or otherwise.

An Act to amend thcseveral Judiciary Acts now in jbrce in this State.
Approved Dec. 15, 1810. Vol. II. 640.

307'. All special Jurors shall be taken from the Grand Jury list of
the County, and struck in the presence of the Court, in the following manner: the Clerk shall produce a list of the Grand Jurors present, and there impanneled, from which the parties, plaintifff and defendant, or their attorney, may strike out one alternately, until there
shall be but twelve Jurors left, who shall forthwith be impanncled
and sworn, as special Jurors to try the appeal cause; and in all cases the appellants shall strike first; and in case of refusal in either to
strike such special Jurors, after due notice givenfor the purpose, and

proof thereof, the Judge before whom such notice is given for such
special Jury to be impanneled, shall on behalf of such absent party,
or his attorney, proceed in the same way and manner, as if the party
absent or refusing had been present or consented to the same.

In Acttaameud the Ll/Itlt section of the Judiciary Law of this
State.—Approved Dec. »4, 1811. Vol. III. 367.

308. See. I. The oath to be administered to special Jurors (except in cases of divorce‘) shall be in the words following, to-wit:
“ You shall well and truly try each cause submitted to you during
the present term, and a true verdict give, according to equity, and
the opinion you entertain of the evidence produced to you, to the
best of your skill and knowledge, without favor or affection to either party; Provided, you are not discharged from the consideration of
the case or cases submitted; so help you God.”

An Act to admit Grand Jurors to give eviclence.—-Approved Dec. 10,
1812. Vol. III. 397.

Size. L [See Evidence, sec. 35.]

309. Sec. II. In future, the oath to be administered to the foreman of all Grand Juries, shall be as follows, viz : “You, as foreman
of the Grand Jury of the County of , shall diligently inquire,
and true presentments make of all such matters and things as shall
be given you in charge, or shall come to your knowledgefr touching
the present service ; the State’s counsel, your fellows’ and your own,
youshall keep secret, (unless called on to give evidence thereof in
some Court of Law in this State :) Youshall present no one for envy,
hatred, or malice, nor shall you leave any one unpresented from fear,
favor, aiection, or reward, or the hope thereof; but you shall present all things truly and as they come to your knowledge, so help,
you God.” And the same oath which is taken by the foreman, shall
be taken by each and every member of any and all the Grand Juries
in this State.:|:

An Act to authorize the Justices of the Inferior Courts in this State,

to draw Grand and Petit Jurors in certain cases.—Approved Nov.
30, 1815. Vol. III. 400.

r 310. The Justices of the Inferior Courts for the several Counties
in this State, or a majority of them, together with the Sheriff and
Clerk of the Superior Court, in any of their several Counties, be, and

they are hereby authorized and required in all cases where there
shall or may have been a failure of the Judges of the Superior Courts,’
in drawing Grand and Petit Jurors agreeably to law, to assemble at
the Court-house in their several Counties, at any time which shall
be to them convenient, and proceed to open their Jury boxes, and
draw from said boxes a sutiicient number of names to serve as Grand
and Petit Jurors for their or either of their said Counties at their next
then depending Superior Courts: and the Jury being so drawn, the
said box or boxes again to seal and deliver, together with the keys,
to the proper officer. Provided, that said assemblage and drawing
shall be at least sixty days previous to the commencement of the
Superior Court at which said Jurors shall be liable to serve.

An Act to authorize the Justices of the In Courts in this State

to draw Juries out of term time.—-Approved Dec. 13, 1820.
Vol. IV. 199. '

311. sec; 1. From and after the passing of this Act, that it shall
be lawful in all cases where it happens that the Justices of any In»ferior Court, at the regular term of said Court, shall omit drawing :1

Jury to serve at the succeeding Court, that the Justices of said Court

_or any three of them, with the Sheriff and Clerk, meet at the place

of holding such Court at least forty days previous to the sitting of

said Court, and draw a Jury under the sa.me regulation that they
ought to have done in term time: ’

412. Sec. II. When any Inferior Court in this State, at the reg-j
nlarterm of said Court, have omitted drawing a Jury to serve at the:
next Court, that they shall, after. the passing of this Act, be authorized‘
to draw a Jury at any time, under the same regulation as in the preceding section; and that the said Clerk of the Inferior Court shall
immediately after the drawing of said Jury as herein provided, make
out a list of the Jury so drawn, and place the same in the hands of
the Sheriff, or Deputy, who shall proceed immediately after receiving the same, to summon the Jury so drawn, in the same manneras
if they had been drawn at the regular term of said Court; and the
said Jurors so drawn and summoned, shall be bound and liable to
serve in the same manner and under the same penalties as if drawn
at the regular term of said Court ; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to define the duties of Grand Jurors in this State, so far as
respects the time they are to be considered bound to notice ojences
committed in their respective Countz'es.—Approved Dec. 22, 1829.
Vol. IV. 229.

313. Grand Jurors shall be bound only to notice or make presentment  suacgi ogenccsilpdslrlnay otr) shall come tg ttheirthknow1e:ihg_e
orobserva 1011 er ey s ave een sworn ° u no mg in is
Act shall be considered as impairing their right, as Jurors to make
presentments of any violations of the laws which they may know
to have been committed at any previous time.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against the intent
and meaning of this Act, are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend and alter the oath of Bailifs, who take charge of

special and Petit Juries, and for other pmposes.—Approved Dec.
26, 1831. Pam. 138.

Whereas, the oath now administered to Bailiffs requires them to
keep the Juries without meat, drink, or fire, candle light and water
only excepted; and whereas, it often happens, that in cases of much
litigation, J nries are unable for a great length of time to agree upon
a verdict, and are thereby exposed to cold and hunger: for remedy
whereof, _

314. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That the following shall be the oath
to be administered to all Bailitfs, sworn to take charge of special and
Petit Juries in the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, to-wit:
You shall take this Jury and all others committed to your charge,
during the present term, to the Jury room or some other private and

convenient place, where you shall keep them without meat, drink or
fire, candle light and water only excepted, (unless otherwise directed
by the Court.) You shall not speak _to them yourself (nor suffer
others to speak to them) unless it be by leave of the Court, to ask
them if they have agreed upon a verdict or are likely to agree. All

this you shall do to the best of your skill and power, so help you
God.

315. Sec. II. Whenever it shall so happen that the Jury is con-1

fined in the investigation of any case, for a length of time, which
exposes them to hunger or cold, or both, the Court may, on application from said Jury, direct them to be furnished, at their own expense, with such nourishments as in his own judgment may seem
just and proper; and permit them to have provisions and fire, or
either, if circumstances should, in the judgment of the Court, require it.

316. Sec. III. The said Bailiffs shall receive from the County
Treasurer, or Clerk of the Court, where there is no Treasurer, of
each County, $1 per day in addition to their present fees, for each
day the said Bailiifs shall serve in attendance on the Juries.

An Act to relieve the Justices pf the Inferior Court from Jury duty.
Approved Feb. 21, 1850. Pam. 293.

l 317’. See. I. A Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, all Justices of the Inferior Court of this State, be, and the
same are hereby, at their own option, exempt from Jury duty.

Sac. II. All laws and parts of lawsmilitating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

Statutes referring to this subject, omitted as obsolete, repealed or

superseded. Provincial Act of 1756, Watk. 46; of 1757', 1?». 47;
of 1760, Ib. 64; of 1768, Ib. 149; of 1778, Ib. 222, 223.

ART. XIV. LIE.\'S.'

See. 818. Lien of Masons. &c.- Sec. 325. Notice of other liens.

" 319. Record, Form, Fee. “ 326. Repealing clause.

" 320. Breach of Contract. “ 327. Act made general.

“ 321. Suit, Time, V ‘ct. " 328. Summary process to enforce.
“ 322. Delivery of Posse ' n. -‘ 329. Ailidavit. &c.

“ 323. Sale does not affect. “ 330. J udgmcnt and execution.

“ 324. Issue, Trial, Damages. *' 331. Issue and trial.

An Act‘ to give to masons and carpenters an encumbrance for debts
due on account of work done and materials furnished in building
or repairing houses, and the premises to which they may be attached, and to repeal all laws on this subject so far as relates to the
Counties of‘ Riz.-hawmd and M cI ntosh, and in the Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus.—Asseuted to Dec. 22, 1834. Pam.
189.

318. Sec. I. All debts which may hereafter become due to any
mason or carpenter in the Counties of Richmond and Mclntosh, the
Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus in this State, for work
done, or materials furnished for building or repairing any house, in
all cases, when said mason or carpenter shall not have taken personal security for said debts, shall constitute and be an encumbrance on
such house and the premises to which it shall be attached, superior
in dignity to, and of higher claim than any other incumbrauce whatever, no matter of what nature or sort the same may be, and without
regard to the date of such other encumbrance.

319. Sec. II. Every mason or carpenter building or repairing
any house, shall, within three -months from the time the same is
completed, cause to be recorded in the Clerk’s office of the Counties hereinbefore named, and the Counties in which the Cities of
Savannah, Macon, and Columbus severally lie, where such building
shall be erected or repaired, his claim thereon, which said claim shall
be in substance as follows: “ A B, amason or carpenter, (as the case
may be,) claims an encumbrance on the house and premises on which
it is erected of C D, adjoining the lots or lands of E F and G H, for the
building or repairing (as the case may be) of said house ;” for which
service he shall pay said Clerk fifty cents; and on the failure so. to
record said claim, the said house and premises shall stand discharged
from said encumbrance, so far as respects any older lien on or any
subsequent bona jide sale or assignment of the same.

320. Sac. III. If any mason or carpenter shall not build or re-,
pair any house by him undertaken to be built or repaired, according,
to his contract, the debt or demand for building or repairing the same‘

shall constitute no encumbrance on the house so built or repaired,
or the premises.

321. Sec. IV. Any mason or carpenter having an encumbrance=

on a house and premises for the debt due for the building or repairing
of the same, shall, within twelve months from the time said debt shall
become due, institute a suit for the recovery of such debt in a Court

having jurisdiction of the cause, and shall, in his declaration, de-7

scribe the house and premises on which the work was donel; and on
the trial of said cause the jury shall find the amount due according

to the evidence, and shall moreover find specially that the same shall

be levied on the property described and proved in preference to any
other claim whatsoever: Provided, The claim of the plaintifff shall
have been recorded according to law; and the Court shall award
judgment and execution accordingly; and on the failure so to sue on
said debt and prove the same to judgment, the said debt shall be
placed on the same footing of any other simple contract or claim, and
the said house and premises shall stand discharged from the encumbrance created by this Act.

322. Sec. V. On the building or repairing of any house, the
same shall be delivered over to the possession and enjoyment of the

D

' person for whom the same was built or repaired, without affecting the

lien created by this Act.
323. Sec. VI. Whenever any house and lot, or house and lands,

'subject to the encumbrance herein created, shall be seized and sold

‘by authority of any process or decree of any Court in this State, the
same shall pass to the purchaser free from such encumbrance, which encumbrance shall attach to the proceeds of the sale in the hands of the
odicer making it, on a notice as in cases of claim to money raised
under execution, which notice with the money shall be returned to
the Court by the said officer.

324. Sec. VII. Whenever a claim of money made under the foregoing section shall be disputed by either the plaintifff or defendant in
the execution, process, or decree on which the money was raised,
the Court to which the return is made,shall retain the amount thereof in the hands of the Clerk, and order an issue to be made up to try
the validity of the claim; upon the trial of which issue, should it be
determined against the claimant, he shall be adjudged to pay damages to the person entitled to the money, not exceeding twenty par
centum, as the Jury may assess, with interest from the date of the notice to retain, and costs.

325. Sac. VIII. Any person or persons holding a lien on the

prembes on which any building is about to be erected or repaired,
may give notice to the mason or carpenter about to build or repair a
house on said premises, before the said building or repairs shall be commenced, not to proceed therewith ; and if the said mason or carpenter,

'a.fter having received such notice, shall proceed with said building or
repairs, the said mason or carpenter shall hold his lien on the said
house and premises, subject to the encumbrance of the person thus
notifying him.

326. Sec. IX. All laws giving master masons and carpenters or
masons and carpenters liens or encumbrances on houses erected or
,repaired,-or materials found by them, be, and the same are hereby
repealed: Provided, however, that liens and encumbrances created
or attached by any of the aforesaid laws shall be held good and valid in Law and Equity.

An Act to attend to the several Counties in this State the provisions
of an Act entitled “An Act to give masons and carpenters an encumbrance for debts due on account of work done, and materials
furnished in building or repairing homes, on such houses and tin

premises to which they may be attached ; and to repeal all laws on
this subject, so far as relates to the Counties of Richmond and M cIntosh, and in the Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus ;”
passed on the 22d Dec. l834.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1837. Pam.

169.

327. See. I. Be it enacted, That all the provisions of an Act
entitled “An Act to give masons and carpenters an encumbrance for
debts due on account of work done, and materials furnished, in building or repairing houses, on such houses and the ‘premises to which
they may be attached; and to repeal all laws on this subject, so far
as relates to the Counties of Richmond and McIntosh, and in the
Cities of Savannah, Macon and Columbus ;” passed on the 22d Dec.
1834, be and the same are hereby extended to all the Counties of
this State, and that all laws militating against this Act be, and they

are hereby repealed.

.41: Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to give all persons employed on
steamboat: and other water-era/ls on the Chattahoochee, Altamaha and
Ocmulgee rivers, alien on said steamboat: or water-crafts, for his, her
or their wages, and for wood and provisions furnished, and to point
out and facilitate the mode  the collection of the same, assented to
Dec. 11th, 1841,’ so as to include all liens on personal property under certain regulations, and for other pu.rposes.—Approved Dec. 24,
1847'. Pam. 214.

l’ W'hereas§in manycases, persons having liens upon personal property, created by the Common Law or the Statute Law of force in
tin’: State, have no power to sell the same, whereby manifest injustice results to such persons, and frequently the delay works injury to
both debtorgand creditor—for remedy whereof,

328. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after

_the pasmge of this Act,’ the above recited Act shall be so amended as
to authorize any person or persons, who, by the principles of the‘

Common Law or the Statute Law of force in this State, or which
may be hereafter enacted, have or shall have a lien on personal property within the limits of this State, to pursue the course pointed out
by said above recited Act, ' by applying, in proper person or by
attorney or agent, to one of the Justices of the Peace of the district in
which the said personal property may be at the time of such application, where the debt does not exceed thirty dollars, or to the Judge
of the Superior, or one of the Justices of the Inferior Court of the
County where the said personal property may be, at the time of such
application, where the sum sworn to shall nott exceed thirty dollars;
and by making affidavit before him of the amount due him, her or
them, and the nature of the lien, and how the same has occurred,
and upon what personal property the said lien has attached, and
thereupon all the provisions of the said recited‘Act, of which this Act

is an amendment, shall apply, and the same proceedings shallbehad,
as provided for by said recited Act, so far as the same can be applica-ble hereto :* Provided, that he, she or they shall demand and prosecute the collection of the same, as provided for in said recited Act,
at any time within twelve months after the same shall become due
and payable: And provided, also. That no such proceeding shall be
had until the demand for the payment of such lien shall first be made
upon the owner or owners, or their agents and attorneys in fact, if
they or any of them reside within the County where such proceedings shall be had, and refusal to pay the same shall have been made.
329. Sec. II. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to

A repeal so much of said recited Act as requires the affidavit to be made,

in the cases specified in said Act, or any Act heretofore pamed
amendatory of the same, before a Judge of the Superior or Justice of
the Inferior Court, or one of the Justices of the Peace of the district
in which said steamboat or other water craft ma then lie, upon the
same arriving at the landing, port or place of dest¥nation to which the
sa.me has been freighted ; but that the said affidavit shall, in the eases provided for by said recited Act, or any Act heretofore passed
amendatory of the same, continue to be made as provided for by
said Act.
' 330. Size. III. In all cases, both under said recited Act and all
Acts amendatory thereof heretofore passed, and in all cases provided
for by this Act, it shall be the duty of the Judge or Justice before
whom the affidavit shall be made, to direct the Clerk to enter up
judgment for the costs of such proceedings, and any interest
that may be due or may become due, as well as for the principal debt,
as provided for in said recited Act ; and it shall be the duty of the
said Clerk, or the Justice of the Peace, when proceedings are had before a Justice, to issue execution for such costs and interest.

331. Sec. IV. In no case shall the said execution so issued be
levied on any other property except such as shall be subject to such

lien; and it shall be lawful for the owner or other person claiming,

the said personal property, or his agent or attorney, not only to cor?
test such claim or demand on the ground that the same or some pa-ft
thereof is not due and owing, as provided for in the third section of
said recited Act, but also to contest the existence of any lien thereim
by making aliidavit denying the existence of such lien, and giving
bond as provided for in said third section of said Act, and such
proceedings shall thereupon be had as are directed in said third sec’
tion of said recited Act.

Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. XV._ LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.”

Sec. 332. Bjeetment, 821:. Sec 846. Act of 1767 revived.

“ 333. Twenty ears’ possession. “ 346. Removal of 

“ 834. Under c ' ants, " 347. Bonds, notes, accounts.

" 835. Olaims by suit only. “ 3&8. Foreign grantees.

“ 836. Personal actions. " 349. Absence, no benedt.

“ 337. Eifect of reversal. ‘ “ 350. Contiscated lands.

“ 838. Disclaimer and tender. - " 351. Idiots, lunatics and infants.
“ 839. Cows in slander. " 352. Residence beyond seas.

“ 340. Fines and forfeitures. “ 353- Defendant's absence from State.

;“ 341. Ejectment. “ 354. Right of surety.

°' 842. Personal actions. “ 366. Nonsuit-—renewa1.

“ 343. Deft removing or abseonding. “ 366. Set-oii‘——dismissa1.

“ 314. Case. " 357. Fraudulent concealment.

An Actfar limitation of Actions, and for avoiding Suits in Law.‘|'
Approved March 26, 1767. Vol. I. 33.

For quieting of men’s' estates, and for avoiding of suits,

332. Site. I. Be it enacted, That all writs of formedonj; in descender, formedon in remainder, and formedon in reverter, of any
lands, tenements, hereditaments, or any other writ, suit or action
whatsoever, at any time hereafter to be sued or brought, by occasion or means of any title or cause heretofore accrued, happened or
fallen, or which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall be
sued a.nd taken within seven years next after the passing of this
Act, or after the title and cause of action shall or may descend or
accrue to the same, and at no time after the said sevenyears ;“ and

that no person or persons that now hath or have, or which hereafter may have, any right or title of entry into any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, shall at any time hereafter make any entry, but within seven years next after the passing of this Act, or after his or their
right or title shall or may descend or accrue to the same; and in default thereof, such person so not entering, and their heirs, shall be
utterly excluded and disabled from such entry after to be made :
Provided nevertheless, that if any person or persons that is or shall
be entitled to such writ or writs, or that hath or shall have such
right or title of entry, be, or shall be at the time of such right or title tirst descended, accrued, come, or fallen, within the age of one
and twenty years, feme coverts, non compos mantis,‘ imprisoned, or
beyond seas,‘ that then such person and persons, and his and.their
heir and heirs, shall or may, notwithstanding the said seven years are
expired, bring his, her, or their action, or make his, her, or their entry, as he, she, or they might have done before this Act, so as such
person and persons, or his, her or their heir and heirs, shall, within
three years next after his, her or their full age, discoverture, coming of
sound mind, ‘enlargement out of prison, or returning from beyond
seas, take benefit of and sue for the same, and at no time after the
said three years.

And for the better and more perfect quieting of men’s possessions
and estates, and avoiding of suits,

333. sec. 11. Be it enacted, That all and every person and per- 1

sons whatsoever, now in possession of any lots, lands, tenements,
or hereditaments whatsoever, within this province, derived from any
grant, allotment, or other power or authority whatsoever, by, from,
or under the late trustees for establishing this colony, or their president and- assistants, or from any other person or persons whatsoever
under their authority, or by or from any grant from his late majesty,
(of blessed memory,) or from his present majesty, or by or under any
last will and testament, purchase or purchases, whether by deed of
gift, bill of sale, or other conveyance whatsoever, for lawful or valuable consideration, and where the person or persons now in the possession of the said lands, tenements, or hereditaments, do possess,
hold, and claim the same, as of his, her, or their own proper right in
fee simple, and the person or persons so in possession, or the person
or persons under whom they c1a"m, have severally or successively
been quietly possessed of the same under any of the titles, ways or
means aforesaid, and without lawful interruption by suit or action at
law actually commenced, enjoyed the same for the space of twenty years before the passing of this Act, that then such person and
persons so in possession as aforesaid, shall have good right and title
to the same, and shall have, hold, and enjoy the said lands, tenements, and hereditaments unto him, her, or them, his, her or their
heirs or assigns forever in fee simple, against all and every other person and persons whatsoever, any thing hereinbefore contained to the
contrary notwithstanding.

334. Sec. III. Not only the person or persons who are or shall

be hereafter barred, by not suing or prosecuting his or their claims to
any lands, tenements, or hereditaments in this province within the
time limited by this Act, but also all manner of persons whatsoever,
that shall at any time claim under such person or persons, who have
last or may hereafter lose their right, by neglecting to sue and prosecute his or their claim as aforesaid, shall be in like manner barred
by this Act, as his, her or their ancestor or ancestors, or those under
whom they claim, were or would have hereby been, and that this
Act, and such clause or clauses herein as relate to the matters atoresaid, may be given in evidence to a Jury upon a trial of any claim,
matter, or right to any lands or tenements in question between party
and party, and that the Chief Justice and Judges upon all such
trials shall allow the same to be given in evidence, so far as concerns the said matter in difference.

And to prevent any disputes how claims are to be made to lands,

and what claims shall be allowed to be good and efi'ect_ual in this
province, and that the possessors of lands may know how and in
what manner other persons having or laying claim to any lands or
tenements in their possession must claim the same, and also that persons having right or title to lands or tenements possessed by others
may the better know how to claim or demand their right in such
cue.
335. Sec. IV. Beit enacted, That all and every personand persons whatsoever, making claim to any lands or tenements in this
province, in order to make such claim effectual, shall and are to make
the same by action at Law, duly entered in the general Court of Pleas
in this province,"" and that the Chief Justice and Judges of the said
Court do allow of no claim to any lands or tenements, for or by any
person or persons, in any suit or suits that may be brought, sued, or
prosecuted in the said Court, other than what is or has been made
by action or suit on record as aforesaid, any law, custom, usage, or
practice to the contrary notwithstanding.

336. Sec. V. All actions of trespass qrmre clausum frcgit, all‘
actions of trespass, detinue, actions of trover and replevin, for tak-'
ing away goods and cattle, all actions upon account and upon the
cane, (other than such accounts as concern the trade of merchandize
between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants,’r all actions of debt grounded upon any lending or contract without specialty, all actions of debt for arrearages of rent,) and all actions of
aault, menace, and battery, wounding and imprisonment, or any of
them, which shall be sued or brought at any time after the passing of
this Act, shall be commenced and sued within the time and limitation hereinafter expressed, and not afterwards,1 ‘that is to say, the

said actions upon the case, (other than for slander,) and the said ac'tions for account, and the said actions for trespass, debt, detinne, and
replevin for goods and cattle, and the said actions of trespass quara
clausum fregit, within three years next after the passing of this Act,
or within four years next after the cause of such actions or suits, and
- not after ;‘ and the said actions of trespass, assault, battery, wounding, imprisonment, or any of them, within one year after the passing
,of this Act, or within two years next after the cause of such action
or suit, and not after; and the said actions upon the case for words,
within six months after the passing of this Act, or within six months
next after the words spoken, and not after.‘
337. Sec. VI. If in any of the said actions or suits, judgment shall
be given for the plaintifff, and the same be reversed by error, or a verrdict pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter alleged in arrest of judgment, the judgment be given against the plaintiff, that he take nothing by his plaint, writ, or bill, or if any the said actions shall be
brought by original, and the defendants therein be outlawed, and shall
after reverse the outlawry, that in all such cases the party plaintifff,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, as the case shall require, may
commence a new action or suit from time to time, within a year after such judgment reversed, or such judgment given against the
plaintifff, or outlawry reversed, and not after.‘|'
338. SEC. VII. In all actions of trespass quarc clausum frcgit,
hereafter to be brought, wherein the defendant or defendants shall
«disclaim in his or their plea, to make any title or claim to the land
'in which the trespass is by the declaration supposed to be done, and
the trespass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant or defendants shall be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass
was by negligence or involuntary, and a tender or offer of suiiicient
amends for such trespass before the action brought, whereupon, or
upon some of them, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be enforced to join
issue, and if the said issue be found for the defendant or defendants,
or_the plaintifff or plaintiffs shall be nonsuited, the plaintifff or p'aintiffs shall be clearly barred from the said actions, and all other suit
concerning the same.
. 339. SEC. VIII. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words,
to be sued or prosecuted by any person or persons in the General
Court in this province, or in any other Court having power to hold

plea of the same, after the passing of this Act, if the Jury upon the
trial of the issue in such action, or the Jury that shall inquire of the
damages, do find or assess the damages under forty shillings, then
the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such action shall have and recover only
so much costs as the damages so given or assessed amount unto, without any further increase of the same, any law, Statute, custom, or
usage to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding.‘

Sac. IX. [Allowing further time to bring actions after the removal of plaintili"s disability—transcribed into the Act of 1806, with
aslight alteration. See sec. 346.]*

340. Sec. X. In all and every case where any penalty,‘,'fine, or forfeiture whatsoever, hath been, or shall hereafter be inflicted or imposed by any Act or Acts of the General Assembly of this Province
already passed, or hereafter to be passed, and the time of suing or
prosecuting the offender or offenders, against such Acts not thereby
provided, no information, action, suit, or prosecution shall be had,
brought, issued, or commenced against the offender or offenders,

against any such Act or Acts, for or in respect of any such penalty,
line or forfeiture, unless the same be done within six months after
the passing of this Act, if the offense hath been already committed,
and within the like space of time after the offense committed, for
the future; and all and every offender and offenders against any such
Act or Acts, shall not from thenceforth be subject or liable to any
penalty, line, or forfeiture which may thereby be inflicted or imposed’, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary in any wise nothwithstanding.

Sec. XI. [Respecting a claim of Sir William Baker—private.]

An Act _/br the Iinzitation of actions, and for avoiding -suits at law,
and to repeal the Act passed on that subject the 26th March, 1767,
for the better and more c;[7'ectually quieting mens’ possessions and
estates, andjor avoiding suits in la-w."“—-Assented to Dec. 7, 1805.
Vol. II. 269.

3.1. 1. See. I. All actions of ejectment, or any other suit or acting,
whatsoever, at any time hereafter, to be sued or brought for the rep.‘
covery of any lands or tenements, by occasion or means of any title.‘
which may hereafter descend, happen, or fall, shall be sued amig taken within seven years next after the title and cause of action», shall
or may descend or accrue to the same, and at no time after the said
seven years: Provided nevertheless, that if any person or personsthag
is or shall be entitled to such suit or action, be or shall be at, thetime.
of right or title first descended, accrued, come, or fallen,‘ within the,

t

his

"P"°P°

5

age of twenty-one years, femecovert, non compos mentis, or imprisoned, that then such person or persons shall be at liberty, notwithstanding the said seven years are expired, to bring such action or ‘suit,
so as that the same be brought within three years after his, her,
or their coming to, or being of full age, discovert or sane memory, or
at large, and at no time after the said three years.

342. Sec. II. All actions of trespass, detinue and trover; all actions of debt, whether upon specialty or simple contract ; all actions
of assault, menace, and battery,. wounding, and imprisonment, or
any of them which shall be sued or brought at any time after the
passing of this Act, shall be commenced and sued within the time
and limitation hereinafter expressed, and not afterward, that is to

''say, the said actions of trespass, assault, battery, wounding, imprisonment, or any of them, within one"" year next after the cause of
such action or suit hath accrued, and not after. And the said actions of detinue,trover, debt, (other than upon judgments,) within four years next after the cause of such actions or suits have accrued, and not after; and the said actions of debt upon judgments
obtained in Courts, other than the Courts of this State, within five
years next‘ after the judgment shall have been obtained, and not after. And the said actions upon the case for words, within one1' year
next after the words spoken, and not after. Provided nevertheless,

;that if any person or persons who is or shall be entitled to any such

actions of detinue, trover, debt, (other than upon judgments,) be or
shall be at the time of any such action given or accrued, within the
age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non campus mentis, or imprisoned, that then such person or person shall be at liberty notwithstanding the times of limitation shall have expired, to bring such
actions or suits, so that the same be brought within two: years next
after the coming to or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory, or at large, and at no time after the said twoj; years. And provided also, that if any person who is or or shall be entitled to any
such actions of trespass, assault, menace, and battery, and imprisonment, be, or shall be at the time, any such action shall have accrued, within the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, non compo:
mantis, or imprisoned, then such person or persons shall be at liberty, notwithstanding the time hereinbefore limited for the bringing
of such action shall have expired, to bring such actions or suits, so
that the same be brought within onej; year next after the coming to
or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory, or at large, and at
no time after the said one]; year; and that the commencing an action
or actions within the time limited, and afterwards discontinuing or becoming non-suit in the same, shall not defeat the operation of this
Act.

343. Sec. III. When any person or persons’ shall remove his
rty without the limits of this State, or absconds». or conceals

:{himself, so that his creditors carmot commence an action, the person

so removing his property, or absconding himself, shall not be entitled to the benefit of this Act, but shall be answerable for any just
demand against him, her, or them ;‘ and this Act shall be deemed,
held, and taken as a public Act, and the Judges of the Superior and
Justices of the Inferior Courts and Justices of the Peace Within this}
State, shall be bound thereby, although the same shall not be pleaded. *

344. Sec. IV. All actions upon the case other than for words!
which shall be said, (sued,) or brought at any time after the passing
of this Act, shall be commenced and sued within four.years next after
the cause of such action or suit hath accrued, and not after.

Sec. V. [Repeals the Act of 1767, but by Act of June, 1806, it
was partially, and by Act of Dec. 1806, fully revived.]

Act of 26th June, 1806. Vol. II.‘ 303.

Sec. 1. [Provided for the renewal of suits commmenced within
time and dismissed. Repealed by the Act of December, 1806, as
declared by the Supreme Court.”]

Sec. II. [Revives the Act of 1767, as to all “actions and causes
of action which originated under it.”]

An Act to revive and continue in force “ an Act for the limitation of
actions, and avoiding Suits in Law,” passed the 26th day of
lliarch, 1767 ; and to amend the 5th and 9th sections of said Act.
Approved Dec. 8, 1806. Vol. II. 344. 345. Sec. I. From and immediately after the passing of this Act,
the Act for the limitation of actions and avoiding suits in law, passed on the 25th day of March, 1767, shall be, and is hereby revived
and declared to be in full force and operation, from the first day of
February, 1793, until this Act shall be repealed: And no deduction
in any calculation of time shall be made in the construction of said
Act after the aforesaid first day of February, 1793.‘

346. Sec. II. If any person or persons, that is or shall be enti-I
tled to any such action of trespass, detinue, action of trover, replevin,l
actions of account, actions of debt, actions of trespass for assault,}
menace, battery, wounding, or imprisonment, actions on the case for
words, be, or shall be at the time of any such cause of action, given or accrued, fallen, or come within the age of twenty-one years,1'
feme covert, non compos 7nentis,‘l' imprisoned, or where the defendant
shall remove out of the jur-isdictizmal limits of this State,'|' that then
such person or persons shall be at liberty to bring the same actions,
so as they take the same within such times as before is limited, after their coming to, or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory,
at large, or the return of the defendant into the same, as by other

persons having no such impediment should be done.‘ Provided
nevertheless, that all notes, and instruments of writing, not under
seal, bearing date after the passing of this Act, shall be of the same
dignity with specialties, and subject to the same limitations heretofore in force in the case of specialties, any thing in the 5th and 9th
sections of the said Act to the contrary notwithstandi ng.1'

Sec. III. All Acts or parts of Acts which militate against the
intent and meaning of this Act, be, and the same are hereby realed.
pcsec. IV. [Relative to \Valton County—rendered obsolete by
the settlement of the North Carolina line.]

An Act to amend an Act, to revive and continue in force an Act jbr
the limitation of Actions, and avoiding Suits in Law : passed 8th
December, 1806.—Approved December 13, 1809. Vol. IL 537.

VVhereas, some doubts exist as to the period at which bonds, notes,
and open accounts, shall be limited, in consequence of the word
specialties, and other indefinite expressions, being used in the second
section of the aforesaid Act;

347. See. I. Be it enacted, Q‘c. That from and after the passing

" of this Act, all actions, founded on bonds or instruments under seal,
shall be commenced and sued within twenty years after the said
bond or‘ other instrument shall become due, and not after; and that

nall actions founded upon notes, and other acknowledgments, under
the hand of the party, shall be commenced within_:, six years’ from
the time such note or acknowledgment shall become due, and not after; and that all actions founded upon open account shall be com'menced within four years from the time such account accrued, and
not after.

Sec. II. All Acts and parts of Acts that militate against this
law, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled “ An Act for the limitation of actions, and for a9r;oiding Suits in Law.”—Approved December 2,
-1813. Vol. III. 30.

« Whereas, divers persons, during the time this State was a British
province, obtained grants for lands within the same, and during the

revolutionary War, and at the expiration thereof, fled from this State,
orwho never resided therein: And whereas, divers persons, good
citizens of this State, have since the revolution unknowingly surveyed and obtained grants for all, or a large part, of many of the
aforesaid old surveys, or have become purchasers, and have settled,
cultivated, and greatly improved the same, defending and supporting
this State ; and reason and justice require that they should not be
disturbed in their possessions at this late period: for remedy whereof,

See. I. Be it enacted, §'c. That no person or persons claiming any
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by virtue of any grant or grants
prior to the revolutionary war, and who never resided in said province, or who fled from this State during that struggle, and who did
not return to this State within twenty-one years after the treaty of
peace with Great Britain, which was in the year 1783, to make their
entry thereon, settle, or cultivate the same, or any part thereof, shall
either he, she, or they, or any person or persons claiming under him,
her, or them, hereafter recover any such parts thereof as may have
been since granted, from any person or persons, who has ' or have
since the revolution obtained a grant or grants, settled, or cultivated
the same, or any part thereof, for the term of seven years in peaceable possession ; nor from any person or persons claiming under such
young title as aforesaid, where thee has been an adverse possession
for the aforesaid term of seven years.‘ ‘

349. Sec. II. No saving or exception in any Statute of Limitations in this State, providing for the claims of persons resident beyond seas, shall operate or be so construed as’ to benefit any persons
whose grants have issued prior to the revolutionary war, and who
are now subjects of the crown of Great Britain and other foreign
nations.‘

350. Sec. III. Nothing in this Act contained shall affect or be
construed to affect any lands belonging to, or that ever did belong to
any person or persons, named in the Act of confiscation and banishment, or bill of attainder, or any right which this State has to confiscated lands, or any right which any citizen of the United States,
or citizen of this State, may have to any of said lands.

An :16‘! amenrlalory to, marl erplanatory of the Statute Q/‘ Limitations in this State ; passed the Tt/L Dec. 1805, so far as it regards
Idiots, Lunatics and I nfants.—Approved Dec. 18, 1817. Vol.

III. 31.

Whereas, many evils and inconveniences may arise from the construction given to the before recited Act, by which the savings and
exceptions in favor of idiots, lunatics and infants, mentioned in said
Act, are totally defeated, and manifest injustice done thereby:

351. See. I. Be it enacted, §’c. That from and after the passage»
of this Act, no Court of Justice in this State, before whom the plea;
of the Statute of Limitations may be relied on or plead by any de-,‘

fendant or defendants, shall be permitted to construe said Act against
idiots, lunatics, or infants, as heretofore construed; but said Statute
of Limitations, when it has commenced running, shall not so operate
as to defeat the interest ‘ acquired by idiots, lunatics, or infants, after its commencement, but the operation of said Statute shall cease
until the disability or disabilities of such persons are removed, or
from the time of the arrival of such infant at the age of twenty—one
years ;9 any law, custom, or usage to the contrary notwithstanding.
I 352. Sec. II. No proviso or part of the above-recited Act, or any
other part or partsof any Statute of Limitations, which are or heretorfore have been of force in this State, shall be so construed as to
grant any privilege, right, or exemption, to any person or persons,
who may reside in either of the United States, or the Territories
thereof, or beyond seas, or elsewhere, other than those enjoyed by
the citizens resident within the limits of this State.

An Act to amend an Act to revive and continue in force an Act for
the Limitation of Actions, and avoiding Suits in Law, passed
the 8th December, 1806, approved December _l3th, lS09.—Assented to Dec. 23, 1839. Pam. 147.

353. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, all actions founded on bonds, or instruments under seal, shall
be commenced and sued within twenty years after the bond or other
instrument shall become due, except where persons shall abscond or
remove without the limits of this State ; and that all actions founded upon notes and other acknowledgments under the hand of the
party, shall be commenced within six years from the time such
note or acknowledgments shall become due, and not after, except
the person or persons shall have removed without the limits of this
State, or to parts unknown.

354. Sec. II. In all cases where any person or persons shall become security on any bond or bonds or other instruments under their
hands, the Act of Limitation shall not operate inany case where the
person or persons shall abscond, go to parts unknown, or remove
without the limits of this State.

Sec. III. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend and explain the several Acts for the Limitation of
Actions and avoiding Suits at Law.—Approved Dec. 29, 1847.
Pam. 217.

355. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That Whenever any case now or
hereafter pending in any of the Courts of this State, either at Law
or in Equity, commenced within the time limited by law, shall be
discontinued, dismissed, or the plaintifff therein become nonsuited,
and the plaintifff ’s claim may be barred during the pending thereof
by any law now in force in this State, the plaintifff may, at anytime
within six‘ months from such termination of the case, and not after,
renew or recommence the same, in any Court having jurisdiction
thereof in this State, any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding: Provided, that nothing in this Act shall be construed
so as to authorize the renewal of any cueafter a second discontinuance, dismissal, or nonsuit.

356. Sec. II. 'When any claim or demand whatever shall be
pleaded as a set-off, or as a defense to any suit or action, either at
Law or in Equity, in any case which may be dismissed, discontinued, or become nonsuit. as aforesaid, or where such defense may be
disposed of, without a final hearing upon the merits thereof, that
then and in that case, all such matters of defense shall be saved from
the operation of the Statute of Limitations, under the regulations and
instructions, and for .the time aforesaid.

An Act to ezplain the fifth section of an Act approved March 26th,
1767, entitled an Act for the Limitation of Actions and avoiding
Suits in Law.—Approved Dec. 30, 1847. Pam. 218.

357. Sec. I. Be it enacted, Q'c. That nothing in the said fifth
section shall be so construed as to protect any defendant or defendants from any action at any time where the Jury are satisfied that

there has beena fraudulent removal or concealment of the property
in order to deprive the rightful owner of the possession or enjoyment of the same——any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

SUSPENSIONS OF THE ACTS OF LIMITATION.

Against persons refusing to liquidate their accounts. sec. 4;

Against principals and snretics, at the instance of the latter, sec. 6;

Against debtors who were squandering their estates, sec. 7 :

Against delinquent executors, administrators, or guardians, sec. 13;

By attachment against absconding debtors, sec. 12 ;

By billin Chancery for certain purposes;

And for fines, forfeitures, and other monies due the public, or due to banks; hr

- rent, and for tuition money, sec. 8.

By the supplementary Act of 6th December. 1813, [Vol. III. 36.] there was a fur.

ther suspension until 25th December, 1814, when the Act expired; say 1 year and 19

(la s.
'l'his Statute enlarged the list of exceptions in the last, and allowed actions to he
brought also for slanderous words, sec. 2 ; and on written instruments given for titles

toland, sec. 5.

 

 

Year. Days.
To be taken out for the drst suspension, from the 28d May, 1808, 0 21 I
exclusive, to 20th Dec. 1808. inclusive,
for the second (in cases not excepted by the
Statute.) from 30th Nov. 1812, exclusive, to the 6th 1 6
Dec. 1813, inclusive,
for the third (in cases not excepted either by this
Act or last,) from 6th Dec. 1813, exclusive, to 25th? I 19
Dec. 1814, inclusive,
Total, 2 238

' Thatis to sa , two years and seven calendar months, (allowing 4 of 30. and 3 of 31
days each,) an 23 days 0‘ver.—Pra'uoe.

ART. XVI. MORTGAGES.‘

Sec. 358. Foreclosure on Realty. Sec. 361. Rule absolute, 2d term.
“ 869. On Personalty. " 362. Agent or attorney, foreclose.
“ 360. Foreclosure in six months.

Judiciary Act q/' 1799. Vol. I. 292.

MORTGAGES ON REAL ESTATES.

358. Sec. XVII. The method of foreclosing mortgages on real
estate, in this State, be as follows: Any person applying, and entitled
to foreclose such mortgage, or his, her or their attorney, shall petition the Superior Court of the County wherein such mortgaged
property‘ may be, stating the case and the amount of his, her, or
their demand, and describing such mortgaged property ; and the
Court shall grant a rule, that the principal, interest, and cost shall be
paid into Court, within twelve monthsf thereafter, which rule shall
be published in one of the public gazettes of this State at least once
in every month, until the time appointed for payment,1 or served on
the mortgager, or his special agent, at least six§ months previwus to
the time the money is directed to be paid; and unless the principal,
interest, and cost be so paid, the Court shall give judgment for

the amount which may be due on such mortgage, and order the
property mortgaged to be sold in such manner as is prescribed in
cases of execution, and the money shall be paid to the mortgagee or
his attorney; but where there shall be any surplus, the same shall
be paid over to the mortgager or his agent. And in case of any dis-1
pute asto the amount due on any mortgage, if the mortgager shall
appear within the time prescribed by this Act, and make affidavit that
he hath made payments which have not been credited on the
aid mortgage, or that he is entitled to sets-off which in Equity ought
to be allowed, the Court shall appoint one or more fit person or persons to audit and liquidate the same ;‘ but either party shall be entidad to anew trial therefrom, which shall be tried in like manner as
shall be prescribed for the trial of appeals in other cases.

HORTGAGES OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

359. Sec. XVIII. Mortgages of personal property shall be fore-‘
closed in the following manner: Any person or persons‘ holding a’
mortgage on personal property, and wishing to foreclose the same,
shall make application to oneof the Judges of the Superior or Justices of the Inferior Courts, and make affidavit before him of the
amount of principal and interest due on such mortgage, which affidavit shall be annexed to such mortgage, and thereupon the Clerk of
the Superior or Inferior Courts shall issue execution as on a judgment, which execution being delivered to the Sheriff, it shall be his
duty to levy on the property wheresoever the same may be found,
and after advertising the same in one or more of the public gazettes
of this State at least sixty days, the SheriH shall set up and expose the
same to sale, and the money arising from such sale shall be first
applied to discharge the amount due on such mortgage, and all legal
costs, and the overplus, if any, to be paid to the mortgager: Prosided always, that if any dispute shall happen as to the sum due on:
any mortgage, that it shall and may be lawful for the said Judge or
Justices of the Interior Courts, on affidavit, to order such sale to be

postponed, the mortgager giving bond, with good and sufiieient security in double the sum sworn to be due, for returning such property
when called for by the Sheriff, which bond shall be assignable by the
Sheriff to the mortgagee, who may sue and recover thereon ; but the
Jury shall be sworn to give at least twenty-five per cent.‘ damages, in
case it shall appear that such application was intended for delay

only.’

An Act to amend an Act entitled “ an Act to amend the Judiciary of

1799, so far as relates to Mortgages on Real Estate.”"‘—Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol. IV. 230.

360. From and after the passage of this Act, when any person or
persons, his, her, or their agent or attorney, shall petition the Superior
Court as prescribed by the Judiciary of 1799, for the foreclosure of
any mortgage on real estate, the Court shall grant a rule directing
that the principal and cost shall be paid into Court within six months
thereafter, which rule shall be published in. one of the public gazettcs of this State, once a month for four months, or served on the
mortgager, or his, her, or their special agent orattorney, at least three
months previous to the time the money is directed to be paid ; provided that nothing in this Act shall be so construed as to affect any
mortgage which may exist at the time of the passage of this Act.

Sec. II. So much of the said Judiciary of 1799 and of the said
amendatory Act as militates against this, is hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the several Acts regulating the _/oreclos '

nres of Mortgages upon Real E'.state.—This Act approved Dec.
26, 1836. Pam. 164.

361. From and after the passage of this Act, in all cases where
any application shall be made to any Superior Court of this State,
‘for the foreclosure of any mortgage upon real estate, it shall be the
duty of such Court topass an order, requiring the mortgager to pay
the principal and interest due upon such mortgage, into Court, on or
before the first day of the next term, which order shall be served or
published in the manner now required by law ; and if such order be
not complied with by the mortgager, the Court may at such term,
passa rule absolute for the sale of the mortgaged property.

An Act to amend the eighteenth section of the Act passed on the simteenth of February, 1799, entitled “an Act to revise and amend
the Judiciary system. of this b'tate.”—Assented to Dec. 21, 1839.
Pam. 137.

362. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, mortgages upon personal property may be foreclosed upon
the atiidavit of the agent or attorney in, fact or at law, of the person
or persons holding such mortgage, as to the amount due.

>f Sec. II. All such mortgage shall be foreclosed, and execution

issue, in the County where the mortgagers resided at the time of the
execution of the same, if resident of this State.

ART. XVII. OFFICERS OF COURT.’
(rxcwmxe cnrzaxs, sunnxrrs, arroaxxts, 8:0.)

Sec. 363. Clerk. duty, Records. Sec. 378. Defaulting Attorney.
‘- 384. Bond, oath, power. . “ 379. Sheriff of adjoining County.
'0 386. No Attorney. Clerk of both. “ 380. 20 per cent for default.
‘ 366. Attorney and Sol General. .“ 881. Copy of demand.
" 387. Sheriffs duty, bond, oath. “ 382. Traverse of returns.
" 868. Deputy, liability. “ 883. Rules vs. absent Sheriff.
" 869. Untinished business. “ 884. 20 per cent after rule.
" 370. Liability of Sheriifs. “ 385. Rule vs. Deputy.
‘ 37l. Remedies against. “ 336. Rules in vacation.
" 372. Indictment for malpractice. “ 387. Special oiiiccrs.
" 373. Neglect of duty, penalty. “ 888. Advertisement of sales.
‘ " 874. Satisfaction of J udgrncnts. “ 389. Deputy, same paper.
7 ' 875. Satisfaction docket. “ 390. Purchase by Sheriff or Deputy.
._ ‘- 376. Subpcenaand Crim. docket. " 891. Misdemeanor.
“ 377. Sheriffs docket. " 892. Dieting, working slaves.

Judiciary Act qf l799—Vol. 1. 292.

cr.1:axs.1'

363. Sec. XXXIV. The Clerks of the several Courts in this:
' State, shall copy intoabook of record, all the proceedings in all civil
‘ cases in the said Courts respectively, which entry of record shall be:
made within forty daysi after the determination of any cause; and
the said Clerks shall be allowed the sum of ten cents for every hundred words of recording such proceeding, to be taxed in the bill of
cost. And the said Clerks shall also keep regular and fair minutes of i
all the proceedings in any of the said Courts, which shall be signed
by the Judge of the Superior, or presiding Justices of the Interior
Courts (as the case may be) prior to the adjournment from day to day,
364. Size. XXXV. The Clerks of the said Superior and Inferior
Courts, hereafter to be appointed, shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their appointments, and after being commissioned by the
Governor, take the following oath before one of the Judges of the
Superior Courts, or a Justice of the Inferior Court of the County : “I
do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will truly and faithfully enter
and record all the orders, decrees, judgments, and other proceedings
of the Superior (or Inferior) Court of the County of , and all

other matters and things which by law ought by me to be recorded,
and that 1 will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all
the duties required of me, to the best of my understanding.” And
shall also enter into bond with one or more good and sufficient security or securities, to the Governor for the time being, in the sum
of $3,000, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties required of them: And the said Clerks shall in virtue of their offices be
Justices of the Peace, so far as to administer all oaths appertaining to
,the business of their office.""
_ 365. Sec. XXXVI. No Clerk of a Court or other person em,ployed in his office, shall act as attorney in his own name, or the
name of any other person, or be allowed to plead or practice in such
Courts, during the time he shall be employed in such office: And
;the same person may be Clerk of the Superior and Inferior Court of
the smile County; Provided, that nothing herein contained shall
extend to prevent any officer of the Court from prosecuting or defending any suit to which he is a party.

LAW m.-:r>.urrnu:u'r.1‘

, 366. Sec. XXXVII. It shall be the duty of the State's Attorney and Solicitors, or one of them, to prosecute all delinquents for
crimes and other offenses, cognizable by the said Courts, and all civil
actions in which this State shall be concerned, and to give advice or
opinion in writing to his Excellency the Governor, in questions of
law in which the State -may be interested. And in case it should so
’happen that neither the State’s Attorney or Solicitors, or either of
them, can attend the said Courts, then the Judge presiding may, and
he is hereby authorized and required, to appoint some attorney at
law, to prepare and prosecute the indictments and other business of
the State, and such person so appointed shall be entitled to the same
fees and emoluments therein, as the State’s Attorney or Solicitors
would have been entitled to.

sm:1urrs.I

367. Sec. XLVI. The Sheriffs of the several Counties shall attend thc Superior and Inferior Courts in the rcspe:'.tive Counties when
sittings. and by themselves or deputies, execute throughout the Counties§ all writs, warrants, precepts and processes directed to them,
issued under the authority of any Judge or Justice of the said Superior or Inferior Courts, or the Clerk of either of the Courts; and the
said Sheriffs or their deputies shall have power to command all necesairy assistance in the execution of their duty, and to appoint, as there
shall be occasion, one or more deputies ;‘ and before any Sheriff shall
enter upon the duty of his appointment, and being commissioned by
the Governor, he shall be bound for the faithful performance of his
duty, by himself and his deputies, before any one of the said Judges
to the Governor of the State for the time being, and to his successors
in office,’ jointly and severally with two good and sufficient securities, inhabitants and freeholders of the County, to be approved of by
the Justices of the Inferior Court or any three* of them,” in the sum
c-f$'2{),U00,1' and the said bond shall remain in the office of the Clerk
of the Superior Court of such County,1 and may be sued for by order
rt’ the said Court, for the satisfaction of the public or persons aggrieved by the misconduct of the Sheriff or his deputy; and the said
Sheriff shall take and subscribe the following oath, before one of the
Judges of the Superior, or Justices of the Inferior Courts, and the
same shall be entered on the minutes of the said Court, before such
Sheriff shall enter on the duties of his office, to wit: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm as the case may be) that I will faithfully execute
all writs, warrants, precepts, and processes, directed to me as Sheriff
of the County of and true returns make, and in all things well
and truly, and without malice or partiality, perform the duties of the
office of Sheriff of ,during my continuance in office, and take
only my lawful fees ; so help me God.” And an oath to the same
purport shall be taken by each of the deputies of the said Sheriff in
like manner. 368. Sec. XLVII. In case of the death of either of the said Sheriffs,
the deputy or deputies shall continue in office, unless otherwise specially removed, and execute the same in the name of the deceased,
until another Sheriff be appointed and qualified; and the defaults
and misfeasance in office of such deputy or deputies in the mean
time, as well before as after the death of such Sheriff, shall be adjudged a breach of the condition of the bond given as before directed, by the
Sheriff who appointed such deputy or deputies ;4 and the executor
or administrator of the deceased Sheriff, shall have the like remedy
for the misconduct or misfeasance, or default in ofliee of such deputy
or deputies, during such intervals, as he would be entitled to if the
Sherid had continued in life, and in the execution of his office, until
his successor was appointed and sworn.
369. Sec. XLVIII. The Sheriff of each County shall, at the
iwpirazim of his appointmezzt, turn over to the succeeding Sheriffs,
by ind-szimre and schedule, all such writs and processes as shall re-,

main in his hands unexecuted, who shall duly execute and return,
I

the same ; and in case any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to turn over
such process in manner aforesaid, every such Sheriff so neglecting or
refusing, shallbe liable to make such satisfaction, by damages and
costs, to the party aggrieved,‘ as he, she, or they, shall sustain by
reason of such neglect or refusal, and every Sheriff, at the expiration

of such his appointment, shall also deliver up to his successor the _

custody of the jail and the bodies of such persons as shall be confined
therein, with the precepts, writs or causes of such detention; and
such succeeding Sheriff shall be empowered and required to sell and
carry into effect any levy made by his predecessors in office, in like
manner as such Sheriff could have done had he continued therein,
and shall make titles to the purchasers for all the property sold under
execution, and not conveyed by his predecessor.’

370. Sec. XLIX. The Sheriffs of the several Counties in this
State, shall have like powers and authorities, and they, and their
under Sheriffs and Jailers, Constables and other officers belonging to
the Court, be liable to all‘ actions, suits, penalties and disabilities
whatsoever, which they or either of them may incur for or on account of the escape of prisoners, or for or in respect of any other
matter or thing whatsoever, relating to or concerning their respective offices, in the same manner as they have heretofore been liable
by laws in force in this State; and no Sheriffs, under Sheriffs, Deputy or other Sheriff ’s officer shall act as an attorney at law, in his
own name or in the name of any other person, or be allowed to plead

or practise in any of the Courts of this State, during the time he is
in such office. '

371. Sec. L. The Sheriff shall be liable either to anaction on
the case, or an attachment for contempt of Court, at the option of
the party, wherever it shall appear that he hath injured such party,
either by false returns, or by neglecting to arrest the defendant, or
to levy on his property, or to pay over to the plaintifff or his attorney,
the amount of any sales which shall be made under or by virtue of
any execution, or any monies collected by virtue thereof.’

' .372. Sec. LI. If any Sheriff. or his deputy or under Sheriffs,
shall be guilty of extortion or other malpractice in the execution of
his office, upon complaint made on oath to the State’s Attorney or Solicitors, it shall be the duty of such Attorney or Solicitor, to exhibit
a bill of indictment against the person so offending, who, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined by the Court in treble the amount
which he may have extorted from any person; which shall be ap-'
plied, one moiety to the injured person, and the other moiety to the

use of such County, and shall likewise be removed from office, and
suffer such other punishment as the law directs.

373. Sec. LII. Whenever the Sheriff of any County within
this State, shall fail to make proper return of all writs, executions
and other process put into his hands, or shall fail or neglect to pay
up all monies received on such executions, on his being required by
the Court so to do, he shall be liable to an action as for contempt,
and may be fined, imprisoned or removed from office, in the manner
prescribed by the Constitution.

.11: Act to define the duties of the Clerks of the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, and Sherz_'fs.—Approved Dec. 15, 1810.
Vol. II. 664.

Whereas, a practicehas prevailed in the Superior and Inferior
Courts in this State, for judgments to be kept open, notwithstanding
the Sheriff may have returned the execution or executions bottomed on such judgments satisfied ; And whereas, great evil might grow
out of such practice; for remedy whereof,

374. See. I. Be it enacted, .;-c. That from and after the first}
day of February next, it shall be the duty of such Clerks, immedi-3
ately after the return of such Sheriff of such execution or executions,;
asthe case may be, to enter such satisfaction on such judgment,
either in whole or in part, as per Sheriff ’s return. .

375. Sec. II. It shall be the duty of such Clerks to keep a dock-f
et book, for the‘ special purpose of entering the names and stating
the cases of parties, plaintifff or plaintifffs, and defendant or defendants, and enter such satisfaction as aforesaid; ,

376. Sec. III. The respective Clerks of the Superior and Infe-j
rior Courts of this State, shall keep regular subpama dockets, and
the said Clerks of the Superior Courts shall also keep separate dockcts forall criminal cases, which shall be entered in their regular,‘
order.

377. Sec. IV. The different Sheriffs in this State shall keep:
fair and regular execution dockets, wherein they shall enter all execu-i
tions delivered to them, and the dates of such delivery, together;
with all their actings and doings thereon, and file the same in the
Clerk’s office out of which such executions may have issued, on or
before the first day of the meeting of the Court to which they may
be made returnable, which said dockets shall remain in the said offices. subject to the inspection of all persons concerned therein.

Sec. V. [See Art. XXI. “Securities and Endorsers,” sec.
430.]

An Act to amend and explain the XXI Xth section of the Judzeiary
Law of this State.——Approved Dec. 7, 1812. Vol. III. 381.

378. And if any attorney shall retain in his hands any money
received by him for any client, after being ordered by the Court to
pay over the same to the principal, he shall be struck from the list
of attorneys, and never more suffered to plead in any of the Courts

in this State.

An Act toauthorize Sher2_'[7's to perform the duties of their qyice in
adjoining Counties in certain cases herein dejined.-—Approved
Dec. 7,1812. Vol. III. 142.

379. In all cases which require the official acts of a Sheriff
wherein he is or may be a party in the case, and no Coroner can be
obtained in the County to perform and execute the office of Sheriff,
'that then and in that case, it shall and may be lawful for any Sheriff
'in an adjoining County to do and perform all manner of oiiicial acts
that aCoroner is authorized to do and perform in cases where the

Sheriff is a party interested.*_

An Act to facilitate the recovery of Money out of the hands Q/'Shcn:[}I:,
Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, Clerks of the Superior
and Inferior Courts, and Attorneys at Law.—Appr0ved Dec. ‘.23,
1822. Vol. IV. 403.

. 380. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall be the duty
of the Sheriffs, Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, Clerks
{of the Superior and Inferior Courts, and Attorneys at law, in this
State, upon application, to pay to the proper person or persons, his,
her, or their attorney any money or monies they may have in their

hands ; and if not promptly paid, the party or partiesentitled thereto, his, her or their attorney may serve said officer with a written

demand for the same ; and if not then paid, for such neglect or refusal the said officer shall be compelled to pay at the rate of twenty
per cent. per annum, upon the sum he*has in his hands, from the date

of such just demand, if good cause be not shown to the eontrary.1'
381. Sec. II. A copy of said demand produced into Count, verified

by affidavit, stating when and where the original was served upon
the officer, shall be prima facie evidence of the date and service

thereof.
Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the return of Sherifs, Constables, Coroners am!
Justices of the Peace, to be traversed, and to point out the manner

in which they shall make returns.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840.
Pam. 40.

382. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of 3

this Act, whenever any Sheriff, Constable, Coroner, or Justice of 1

the Peace shall make a return or showing, tmder or by virtue of any.
rule or order of any Judge of any Superior Court of this State, the?
same shall be made on oath to be taken at the time of making such

return or showing, and the party calling for such return or showing,

shall be at liberty to traverse the truth of such return or showing,

and upon such traverse an issue shall be formed and tried by a Jury,

asin the case of other traverses.“

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,

he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act requiring Judges to grant Rules Absolute against Sherzfs
in certain cases.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 122.

383. Whereas, Sheriffs in this State frequently absent themselves from their Court, for the purpose of preventing rules
being taken against them for failure to raise monies on executions;
and whereas, injury frequently accrues to plaintifffs in execution;
for remedy whereofSrzc. I. Be it enacted, That whenever a Sheriff of any County
in this State absents himself from his Court, that the presiding
Judge or Judges, in all such instances, when required by plaintiffs‘
in executions or their attorney, shall grant rules absolute against
said Sheriff, unless it is proven, at said term of the Court, that the
Sheriff, from sickness, is not able to attend said Court, any law or
custom to the contrary. *

An Act to extend the provisions of an Act entitled an Act to facilztate
the recovery of money out of the hands of Sherifs, Coroners, Justices qf the Peace, Constables, Clerks of the Superior and Inferior
Courts and Attorneys at Law passed December twenty-third, eighteen hundred and twenty-tzco, to certain cases therein named.—Assented to Dec. 11, 1841. Pam. 124.

384. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage
of this Act, that whenever a‘ rule absolute shall be obtained against
any Sheriff, Coroner, Justice of the Peace, Constable, Clerk of the

. Superior or Inferior Court, or Attorney at law, for the payment of

money when such money shall not be promptly paid, that such demand shall thereafter draw an interest at the rate of twenty per cent.
per annum. ' l

385. Sec. II. All Deputy Sheriffs shall be liable to be ruled and
attached in the same way and manner as Sheriffs; but the liability

‘of the Sherili‘ shall not be affected by any such proceeding against

his deputy where the same is not effective. _
386. SEC. III. It shall be lawful for the Judges of the Superior

Courts of this State, Justices of the Inferior Court and Justices of

the Peace, upon application, to grant rules nisi against all officers in
vacation, which may be served as heretofore practiscd.*

387. Sec. IV. Whenever the Sheriff or his deputy is a party to
said rule, or interested therein, and there be no Coroner or other
lawful officer of said County to execute the same, it shall be the duty
of the Judge or Justice or Justices of said Court to appoint, pro teen»
pore, a special officer to carry out and effectuate the order of said
Court, which said officer, so appointed, shall be allowed the usual
fees of Sheriffs for like servicesf " V

Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this law,
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize and require the Sherifs, Coroners, Clerlrs of the
Superior and Inferior Courts, and Courts of Ordinary in the

several Counties in this State, to advertise in certain newspapers.
Approved Feb 22, 1850. Pam. 44.

388. See. I. Be it enacted, That the Sheriffs, Coroners, Clerks
of the Superior and Inferior Courts, and Clerks of the Courts of

'Ordinary in the several Counties in this State, are hereby authorized and required to advertise their sales, citations, and proceedings
of their respective Courts in some newspaper published in their
Counties respectively, and if there be no such paper published in the
County, then in the nearest newspaper having the largest or a gene!»
al circulationin the County; and no such officer shall change the
advertising, connected with his office from one paper to another,
without first giving notice of his intention to do so in the paper in
which his advertisements may have been publishcd.I '

389. Sec. II. All deputies of Sheriffs, or other officers herein
mentioned, shall advertise in the same papers in which their principals advertise.

Szc. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to prohibit'Sher2_'fs and their Deputies from becoming directly or indirectly purchasers of property at their own sales, to vacate all titles taken or held by them for property so purchased, and

to make penal the violation of this Act, and to regulate their charges in certain cases.—Approved Feb. 22, 1850. Pam. 369.

390. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, no Sheriff or deputy Sheriff shall be permitted to purchase
any property whatever, sold by himself, nor any Sheriff property
S)ld by his deputy, nor any deputy Sheriff property sold by his
principal or other deputy of said principal, either directly upon his
own bid, or indirectly upon the bid of any other person ; and that
every deed and all deeds intended to vest in any Sheriff or deputy
1 title to property purchased at such sales in violation of this Act,
whether made by such Sheriff ordeputy or by any purchaser at such
sale, shall be null and void.‘ .

391. Sec. 11. Any SheriE or deputy Sheriff who shall violate the
provisions of the first section of this Act, shall be liable to be indict—‘
ed as for a misdemeanor, and‘ upon conviction shall be subject to line
in the discretion of the Court, or imprisonment in the common jail
of the County for a term not exceeding six months, or both.

392. Sec. III. Whenevera Sherid or his deputy shall levy upon
any negro property, he shall not be allowed to charge in any case
for feeding and keeping, or any other necessaries furnished such negro
or negroes, in such cases where the services of such negro so levied
on have been applied to the use of said Sheriff or his deputy prior
to the sale and pending the levy.’

Sec. IV. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed. ART. xvnr. PARTITION.‘

Sec. 393. Proceedings to partition. Sec. 396. Sale-.—when necessary.
" 394. Compensation. “ 397. How effected.
“ 395. Five partitioners. “ 393. Purchaser's title.

An Act to empower the General Court of Pleas to grant writs of
partition of lands and tenements held in coparccna-ry, joint tenancy, and tenancy in common, in this province, and appointing the
method of proceeding therein.—Approved March 26, 1767. Vol.
I. 315.

Wlzereas, it would be inconvenient in this province to pursue the
method of dividing lands and tenements by writ of partition as
practised in Great Britain; and it appears necessary to provide a more
easy and less expensive manner of obtaining partitions:

393. Sec. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That in all cases where
any person being of full age are seized of lands in coparcenary, joint

tenancy, or tenancy in common, or where any lands or tenements
shall descend, or be given to any person or persons whatever in coparcenary, joint tenancy, or tenancy in common, and no provision
shall be made by will or otherwise, how such lands or tenements
shall be divided; it shall and may be lawful for such person, being
of full age, or either of them, immediately, and also for any one of
such coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, who may be
under age, when, and so soon as he or she shall attain the age of
twenty-one years, to apply to the General Court of Pleas, for a writ
of partition, (to be devised and framed in the said .Court according
to the nature of the case, and in case he or she, so coming of e,
shall neglect so to_ do, within the space of twelve months, that tliin
the guardian or guardians of him, her, or them, remaining under age,
shall be, and he, she, or they, is and are hereby empowered, if he,
she, or they shall think lit, to apply to the said Court for a writ of
‘partition ;"" of which application twenty days’ notice shall be given
to the other parties concerned, their -agents or- attorneys; and upon
any such a?ppl1ca'(t1lOl':, aiilijlafligavit ngidcla off dlute npitlice hzviéig been
given as oresai , 1 s an may e aw u or e sai ourt to
examine the petitioner’s title and part or share of the premises to
be divialed, and thereupon to issue a writ of partition, directed to any
elevenf persons whom the Court shall think lit, requiring and commanding them, or a majority of them, to make partition accordIingly ; they being lirst sworn in Court, or before one of the Judges,
or any Magistrate, or other person or persons for this purpose nominated and appointed by order of Court, duly and impartially to execute such writ :1 And such partitioners, or persons named in such
lwrit, shall give eight days’ notice of the time of executing thereof,
Z§’.Zi1' If3§c§Z3“f§ Z§3;i‘il.‘i§ Z§I§1"f§?§oa§°§$?i‘ §i3s§§'Z'lp°a3
such land and tenements, either in entire tracts or parcels, as they shall
judge to be in proportion to the shares claimed and most beneficial
to the several coparceners, joint tenants, or tenants in common, according to the best of their knowledge ; and shall make return there.of under their hands and seals to the said Court within three months
after the issuing of such writ, there to remain of record; which partition or division so to be made shall, by the judgment of the said
Court, be final and conclusive to all the parties concerned, any law,
statute, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. Provided
always, that if the defendant or defendants, or person concerned, or
either of them, against whom, or their ’ ht or title an °ud ment
is given, shall within the space of trvlvgelve monlhs, Yaiitergsuch
judgment is entered; or in case of infancy, coverture, insanity of
mind, or absence out of the rovince, within one car after his her
or their return, on the deterrgination of such inability, apply them-’
selves to. the Court where such judgment is entered, by motion, and
show a good and probable matter in bar of such partition, or that

the dernandant hath not title to so much as he hath recovered; then
and in such case the Court may suspend, or set aside such judgment,
and admit the tenant or tenants to appear and plead; and the cause
shall proceed according to the due course of law, as if no such judgment had been given. And if the Court, upon hearing thereof, shall
adjudge for the first demandant, then the said first judgment shall
stand confirmed, and be good against all persons whatsoever, except
such other persons as shall be absent or disabled as aforesaid ; and
the person or persons so appealing shall be awarded thereupon to
pay costs, or if within such time or times aforesaid, the tenants or
persons concerned, admitting the de1nandant’s title, parts, and purparts, shall show to the Court any inequality in the partition, the,
Court may award a new partition to be made in presence of all parties concerned, (if they will appear,) notwithstanding the return and
filing upon record the former; which said second partition returned
and filed shall be good and firm forever, against all persons whatsoever, except as before excepted.

394. SEC. II. That the persons making such partitions shall be
allowed and paid a reasonable charge for the same. And in case the,
party or parties applying for such writ of partition shall neglect or
refuse to allow and pay such charge, the same shall, upon application,
be settled and awarded by the Court.

An Act to amend an Act, entitled an Act to empower the General
Court of Pleas to grant writs of partition of lands and tenemenls
held in coparcenary, joint tenancy, and tenancy in common, -in this

province; and appointing the method of proceeding therein, passed
the 26th Marcia, 17’67.—-Approved Dec. 22, 1827. Vol. IV. 219.

Whe1'eas, by the before-recited Act it is made the duty of the Superior Courts in this State, on application for a ~writ of partition, to
appoint eleven persons to perform such duty, which from experience
[proves] to be unnecessarily expensive;

395. Be it enacted, §'c. That from and immediately after the]!
passing of this Act, that whenever a writ of partition shall be grant-.
ed in terms of the before-recited Act, it shall be directed to live free-}
holders of the County where such writ shall issue, and the said free-‘
holders, ora majority of them, shall have full power to perform all
the duties required by the before-recited Act in cases of partition;
and the said freeholders, or a’ majority of them, shall have power to
select a Surveyor to aid them in the discharge of their duties, and the
said freeholders shall be subject to the same rules, regulations, and
restrictions, as are prescribed by the before-recited Acts in all cases
of partition; any law to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to regulate the mode of partitioning lands and tenements in
certain cases, in the State of Georg-ia.—Assented to 26th Dec.
1837. Pam. 181.

396. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That whenever an application shall

be made to any of the Superior Courts of this State for a partition
of lands or tenements, held in joint tenancy, tenancy in common
or in coparcenary, and either of the parties in interest shall, by his
or her affidavit, or other proof, make it satisfactorily appear to the
Court, that a fair and equitable division of said lands and tenements
cannot be made, by metes and bounds, by reason of improvements
made on said lands and tenements, or by reason of the said lands
and tenements being valuable for the erection of mills or machinery
of any kind, or by reason of said lands being valuable for mining
purposes, and in all cases where it shall be made appear to the Court,
that the value of the entire lands and tenements will be depreciated
by such division as aforesaid, that then and in that case, the said Court
shall order a sale of the said lands and tenements, on such just and
equitable terms as it shall prescribe, and order the proceeds to be divided among the several claimants rateably, in proportion to their
respective interests, after deducting the expenses of the proceedings.

397. Sec. II. In all cases where it shall be necessary to make a

'sale of lands or tenements, to effect a just and equitable partition

thereof, it shall be the duty of the Court to appoint three discreet
and proper persons, under such qualifications as it may prescribe, to
make sale of the said lands and tenements, after an advertisement of
thirty days in one of the public gazettes, on the first Tuesday in
the month, at the Court house, in the County in which the said
lands or tenements are situate, and to return their proceedings to the
next following term of the Court.

398. Sec. III. Upon the sale of said lands and tenements as
aforesaid, the said parties in interest, shall make a title to the purchaser, and in case of failure or refusal of them or any of them, the
said persons appointed under the authority of the Court aforesaid, or
any two of them, shall execute a deed of conveyance to the said
lands or tenements to the purchaser or purchasers, which said deed
of conveyance shall be as valid and binding in Law and Equity, as
if it had been made by the parties themselves.

[Statutes omitted as obsolete, repealed or superseded. Provincial
Act of 1763. Watk. 86.]

ART. XIX. PARTNERS AND PARTNERSHIPS.‘

Sec. 399. Liniited Partnerships. Sec. 414. Refunding.

“ 400 General and Special Partners. “ 415. Power of Special Partner.

" 401. Power of General Partners. A “ 416. Liability of General Partner.
“ 402. Certificate, contents. “ 417. Fraud, effect of.

“ 403. Attestation. “ 418. Fraudulent sales and liens.
“ 404. Filing and record. “ 419. By a Partner.

“ 4 5] Aflidavit filed. “ 420. Penalty.

“ 406. Effect of failure. “ 421. Rights of creditors.

“ 407. Publication of terms. “ 422. Dissolution.

“ 408. Amdavit of Printer. “ 423. Name of retired partner.

“ 409. Renewals of Partnership. “ 424. Penalty forusing.

“ 410. Alteration, dissolution. “ 425. Bond by one Partner.

“ 411. Name of Partnership. “ 426. Judgment for and against.
“ 412. Suits by and against. “ 427. Bond to Partnership.

3‘ 413. Dividends. “ 428. Denial of Partnership by plea.

‘Where all the partners are not served, judgment vs. defendant served, lee Art. III.

An Act to authorize Limitecl PartncrsI¢ips.—Assented to 22d. Dec.
1837, Pam. 182.

399. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That limited partnerships for the
transaction of any mercanfile, commercial, mechanical, manufacturing, mining, or agricultural business, within this State, may be formed by two or more persons, upon the terms, with the rights and powers, and subject to the conditions and liabilities herein prescribed ;
but the provisions of this Act shall not be construed to authorize any
such partnership for the purpose ‘of banking, or making insurance.

400. Sec. II. Such partnerships may consist of one or more
persons, who shall be called general partners, and who shall be jointly
and severally responsible as general partners, and of one or more persons who shall contribute, in actual cash, a specific sum as capital to
the common stock, who shall be called special partners, and who

shall not be liable for debts of the partnership beyond the fund so
contributed by him or them to the capital, except as hereinafter provided.

401. Sec. III. The general partners only shall be authorized to
transact business, and to sign for the partnership, and to bind the
same.

402. Sec. IV. Persons desirous of forming such partnership, shall
make and severally sign, by themselves or attorney in fact, a certificate which shall contain—1st, the name of the firm under which
such partnership is to be conducted; 2d,_ the general nature of the
business intended to be transacted ;3d, the names ofall the general and
special partners inserted therein, distinguishing which are general,
and which are special partners, and their respective places of residence; 4th, the amount of capital which each special partner shall
have contributed to the common stock ; 5th, the period at which the‘
partnership is to commence, and the period at which it shall terminate, and when made by such attorney in fact, the power of attorney
duly authenticated shall be recorded along with such certificate. I

403. Sac. V. The certificate shall be acknowledged by the
several persons signing the same, or their attorney in fact, before a
Judge of the Superior or Inferior Court, or alustice of the Peace, or
Notary Public, and such acknowledgement shall be certified by the.
officer before whom the same is made. 3

404. Sec. VI. The certificate and power of attorney in fact. so:
acknowledged and certified, shall be filed in the office of the Clerk?
of the Superior Court of the County in which the principal place:
of businessof the partnership shall be situated, and shall also be re-:
corded by him at large, in a book to be kept for that purpose, open
to public inspection. If the partnership shall have places of business

situated in different Counties, a transcript of the certificate, and power of attorney in fact, and of the acknowledgement thereof, duly cer' tified by the Clerk in whose office it shall be filed, under his official

seal, shall be filed and recorded in like manner in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court in every such County; and the Clerk
- for each and every registry required by this Act shall be entitled to

the sum of five dollars.
405. Sec. VII. At the time of filing the original certificate, with

the evidence of the acknowledgement thereof, as before directed, an

. affidavit or affidavits of the several general partners shall also be filed

in the same office, stating that the sums specified in the certificate
to have been contributed by each of the special partners to the common stock, have been actually and in good faith paid in cash, and a
certified copy of such certificate and power of attorney and affidavits,
shall be evidence in all Courts and places whatsoever.

406. Sec. VIII. No such partnership shall be deemed to have

;;been formed until such a certificate as is herein mentioned, shall
have been made, acknowledged, filed and recorded, nor until an affidavit shall have been filed as above directed ; and if any false statement be made in such certificate or affidavit, or if such partnership
business be commenced before such certificate or affidavit is filed, all
the persons interested in such partnership shall be liable for all the
engagements thereof as general partners.

407. Sec. IX. The partners shall publish the terms of the partnership, when registered, for at least six weeks immediately after
such registry, in one newspaper in the County in which the place of
business is situated, and in one newspaper in the City of Mil'ledgeville. If no newspaper should be published in the County in which
the business is to be transacted, the notice shall be published in all
the newspapers in the City of Milledgeville as before required, and if
such publication be not made within two months from the time of
filing such certificate and affidavit, the partnership shall be deemed
general.

I, 408. Sec. X. The affidavits of the publication of such notice

‘by the printers, publishers, or editors of the newspapers in which the
same shall be published, may be filed in the office of the Clerk of the
Superior Court in which the certificate has been filed, and shall be
evidence of the facts therein contained.

f 409. Sec. XI. Every renewal or continuance of such partner'ships beyond the time originally fixed for its duration, shall be certified, acknowledged, and recorded, and an affidavit of a general partner be made and filed, and notice be given in the manner herein required for its original formation ; and every such partnership which
shall be otherwise renewed or continued, shall be deemed a general
partnership.

410. Sec. XII. Every alteration which shall be made in the
names of the partners, in the nature of the business, or in the capital
or shares thereof, or in any other matter specified in the original certificate, shall be deemed a dissolution of the partnership; and every
such partnership, which shall in any manner be carried on after any
such alteration shall have been made, shall be deemeda general partnership, unless renewed as a special partnership, according to the

povisions of the last section. ’

411. Sec. XIII. The business of the partnership shall be conducted under a firm, in which the names of the general partners only
shall be inserted, without the addition of the Word “ company,” or
any other general term; and if the name of any special partner shall
be used in such firm, he shall be deemeda general partner.

412. Sec. XIV. Suits to be brought by any partnership to be formed under this Act, shall be in the name or names of the general partners
only, and suits against such partnership shall be brought against the
general partners only; except in cases where the special shall be rendered liable as general partners, in which cases suits may be brought
against all the partners jointly or severally, or any one or more of the
special partners may be sued in the same action with the general
partners.

'4l3._ Sac. XV. No part of the sum‘ which any special partner
shall have contributed to the capital stock, shall be withdrawn by‘
him, or paid or transferred to him in the shape of dividends, profits or,
ot'nerwise,at any time during the continuance of the partnership, but
any partner may annually receive lawful interest on the sum so contributed by him, if the payment of such interest shall not reduce the}
original amount of such capital; and if, after the payment of such]
interest, any profits shall remain to be divided, he may also receive
his portion of such profits, but shall not be liable for any debts previously contracted by the general partners.

414. Sec. XVI. If it shall appear that by the payment of interesti
or profits to any special partner, the original capital has been redu-1
ced, or the firm shall be unable to pay its debts, the partner receiving‘
the same shall be bound to restore the interest or profits received by
him, necessary to make good his original share of the original stock.

415. Sec. XVII. A special partner may at any time examine:
into the state and progress of the partnership concerns, and may ad-I

rise as to their management; but he shall not transact any business;
on account of the partnership, nor be employed for that purpose as:
agent or otherwise. If he shall interfere, contrary to these provisions,he shall be deemed a general partner, but he may act as the attorney I
orcounsellor at Law or in Equity for the partnership, without being
liable to become a general partner.

416. Sec. XVIII. The general partners shall be liable to account c
to each other, and to the special partners for their man. cement of the E
business of the firm, both in Law and Equity, as other partners now °
areby Law and Equity. .

_ 417. Sec. XIX. Every partner who shall be guilty of any fraudr

in the affairs or business of the partnership, shall beliable civilly toE

the party injured, to the extent of his damage ; and shall also be lia-'_’
ble to an indictment for a misdemeanor, punishable by line or impris- '
onment, or both, at the discretion of the Superior Court, by which
he shall be tried. '

418. Sec. XX. Every sale, assignment, of transfer or any of the

P"°P81't_y or eifects of such partnership, made by such partnership

when insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, or after, or in

contemplation of the insolvency of any partner, with the intent of giv.ing a preference to any creditor of such partnership, or insolvent part'ner,over other creditors of such partnership; and every judgmentconfessed, lien created, or security given by such partnership, under
the like circumstances and with the like intent, shall be void as
against the creditors of such partnership.

419. Sec. XXI. Every such sale, assignment, or transfer of any
of the property or eifects of a general or special partner, who may
have become liable as a general partner, made by such general or special partner, when insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency, or after, or in contemplation of the insolvency of the partnership, with
the intent of giving to any creditor of his own, or of the partnership,
a preference over creditors of the partnership, every judgment confessed, lien created, or security given, by any such partner, under the
like circumstances and with like intent, shall be void asagainst the
creditors of the partnership.

_ 420. SEC. XXII. Any special partner who shall violate any
' provision of the two last preceding sections, or who shall concur in or
assent to any such violation by the partnership, or by any individual
partner, shall be liable as a general partner.

I 421. Sec. XXIII. In case of the insolvency or bankruptcy of the
"partnership, no special partner shall, under any circumstances, be allowed to claim as acreditor, until the claims of all the other creditors
of the partnership shall be satisfied.

422. Sec. XXIV. No dissolution of such partnership, by the
acts of the parties, shall take place previous to the time specified in
the certificate of its renewal, until a notice of such intended dissolution shall have been filed and recorded in the Clerk’s’office in which
the original certificate was recorded, and published at least once a.
week for four weeks in a newspaper printed in each of the Counties
where the partnership has places of business; but if no newspaper be
printed in such Counties, then the notice shall be published for four
weeks in all the newspapers in the City of Milledgeville, which notice
shall be signed by all the partners, or their representatives; Provided,
that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect the
collection of any demand against either of the special partners, which
may have been contracted previously to the commencement of such
special partnership.

An Act to prohibit persons who are partners in trade, or any kind of
business, _/rem insc1'(ing, continuing or using, in their partnership
style and name, the name of any indivizlual not actually a co-partner,
and to prevent the collection of debts due to any pa.-rtzzership violating
the prov-is-ions oftlris Act, and to pmzis/t those who may violate the same.

-—Assented to Dec. 25, 1837. Pam. 187.

'23. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, it shall not be lawful for any persons, who are partners in
trade, or business of any kind, to insert or use in their partnership,
firm, style and name, the name of any person not actually a co-partnet with them at the time his or her name is so inserted or used, nor
shall it be lawful to continue, in any partnership firm, style and
name, the name of any individual partner after he or she shall have
retired from partnership : Provided, that this -Act shall not be so
construed as to prevent the collection of debts due to any partnership, after its dissolution, or after the retirement of any partner, in
the name previously used, in conformity with this Act.

424. Sec. II. Each and every individual violating the provisions of this Act, shall forfeit and pay the sum of one hundred dollars
for each and every day such name may be used; to be sued for and
recovered by any person who may prosecute for the same.

An Act to authorize partners, or persons jointly interested, under certain
circumstances to execute sealed instruments.—Assented to Dec. 29,

1838. Pam. 165.

425. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That in all suits either in favor of, or
against partners or persons jointly interested, and in all cases when
such partners or persons jointly interested shall in any wise become
connected with any suit or other matter, pending in any of the
Courts of this State, in any way whatsoever, wherein it shall become necessary for said partners or persons jointly interested to give
bond, it shall and may be lawful for any one of said partners or persons jointly interested, to execute the same by signing the names of
all of said partners or persons jointly interested; and the same shall
be obligatory and binding upon every of said partners or persons interested; any law to the contrary notwithstadirig.“

An Art declaratory of the force and validity of all ercecutions or judgmerits issued or entered up in behalf of copartners, or against eopartncrs, where the partnership style is used or set forth, and the
christian and surnames of the co-partners omitted, and also to declare the force of bonds made to part-ners/zips using Iheir_ common
name or style.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1840. Pam. 114.

426. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of .
this Act, no judgment or execution shall be arrested or annulled in}
any case where the judgment has been entered up, or the execution]
issued in favor of copartners or against copartners, where the partnership style is used therein instead of the christian and surnames of each
person composing such partnership, as has been held to be necessary
by some of the Judges of this State ; but such judgment or execution
shall not, for such omission on the part of any officer of the Court,
Clerk, or Justice of the Peace, be atfected or delayed in anywise
thereby.

l- 427. Sec. II. All bonds payable to two persons or more, doing
business under partnership name or style, shall be as obligatory and
binding upon the obligors of such bonds, where made with obligees
using their firm name or style, as if each name composing such partnership had been set forth.‘

Sec. III. All laws or decisions militating against the plain and
manifest intention of this Act, be, and the same are hereby repealedAn Act to enable coparmers, who are plaintiffs in the Courts of Law
and Equity in this State, to maintain and prosecute their suits in
said Courts, in certain cases, without being compelled to addizce
proof of their c@artnership.—Assented to Dec. 2, 1841. Parn.
141. 428. Whereas, it has been decided by one or more of the Judges of the
Superior Court of this State, that in all cases sued in said Court, in
the name of a firm of joint traders or copartners, in any business,
that proof of the copartnership, as alleged in the plaintifff’s declaration, is necessary to be made before said plaintifffs are allowed to recover their demand. For remedy whereof, and to prevent the delay
and expense of adducing such proof, '

Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this
Act, it shall not be deemed or held necessary in any of the Courts of
Law or Equity of this State, for a firm of joint traders or copartners
in any business, trade or profession, who are or hereafter may be
plaintifff, in any cause pending in either of said Courts, to prove their
copartnership: Provided, nevertheless, that nothing contained in
this Act shall prevent said Courts, or any of them, from requiring
such proof in any case where the defendant or defendants shall, regularly, by plea in abatement, denying the existence of such firm or
copartnership, as may be set forth by the plaintifffs in their bill, petition, declaration or writ.

Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act be,
and the ‘same are hereby repealed.

ART. XX. POSSESSORY VVARRANT AND PROCEEDINGS TIIEREOZ\’.1An Act the more efectually to quiet and protect the Ppssession of
Personal Property, and to prevent taking possession by fraud or
violence.—Approved Dec. 25, 1821. Vol. IV. 207.

429. Whe7'eas, a practice hath been followed by some persons
having or laying claims to negroes and other personal property, to
take-or convey away the same by violence, seduction, or other means
or to harbor, or otherwise take, or cause the same to be taken, out

of the possession of the adverse claimant without due course of law,
and oftentimes to remove the same out of the State to the great injury of the true owner; and whereas, manifest injustice, and many
serious mischiefs may arise from such a practice, which is productive
of frauds, violence, and quarrels, and bloodshed,
Sec. IV. Be it thereforee enacted, That upon complaint made on 0
oath by the person injured, his agent or attorney, to any Judge of the:
Superior, or Justice of the Inferior Court, or‘ any Justice of the 3'
Peace, that any negro or negroes, or other personal chattel, have ‘C’:
been taken, enticed, or carried away by fraud, violence, seduction‘:
or other means, from the "possession of such deponent, or that such
negroes or other personal chattels having been recently in the quiet, and
legally and peaceably acquired possession of such deponent, have absconded or disappeared without his or her consent, and as he or she
believes, have been harbored, received, or taken possession of, by any
person or persons under some pretended claim or claims, and without
lawful warrant or authority and that the said deponent, or the person for
whom he is agent or attorney bona fide claims a title to or interest
in the said negroes or other chattels, or the possession thereof, it shall
be the duty of such Judge or Justice to issue a warrant, as well for:
the apprehension of the party so seizing, taking, enticing, receiving,r
harboring, obtaining, or having possession of such negroes or other:
chattels, as for the seizure of such negroes or other chattels themselves; i
and upon the return of such warrant the Judge or Justice shall hear;
evidence as to the question of possession in a summary way, and!
cause the said negroes or other chattels to be delivered over to the:
party from whose possession the same were violently or fraudulently‘
taken or enticed away, or from whom the same absconded, or in:
whose peaceable possession they last were: Proridcd, such party}
shall, before such Judge or Justice, enter into a recognizance, with
good and sufficient security, in double the amount of the value of
such negroes or other personal property, and the hire claimed, if any,
to cause the said negroes to be produced and forthcoming, to answer
any judgment, execution, or decree that may be had, issued or made
upon such suit or action at Law or in Equity as the opposite party
may commence or prosecute within the next four years touching the
same; and such recognizance shall be returned by such Judge or Justice to the next Superior Court of the County where the same is taken, to be transmitted to the Court where such suit or action may be
commenced ; and the securities upon such recognizance shall be bound
and liable for the eventual condemnation-money, and execution shall
issue against them in the same manner as against securities on appeals: Provided also, that when the party taking out the warrant
shall refuse or be unable to give such security, then the Judge or
Justice may in his discretion deliver over such negroes or other personal property to the opposite party, upon their entering into a like
recognizance. with security of the same nature and effect, and to be
disposed of in the same manner. And if, upon return of the w
rant, it shall appear that the negroes or other personal property are in
the possession, power, custody or control of the defendant, ‘or any
agent or friend of his or acting for or intrusted with them for him, and

the said defendant doth not produce or cause to be forthcoming the
said negroes or other personal property to be dealt with as the law
directs, the said defendant shallbe committed to jail ; there to remain
in safe and close custody, Without bail or mainprise, until the said
negroes or other personal property shall be produced or forthcoming
I’ to be disposed of, as aforesaid ; Provided always, that no person or
persons shall be so committed for refusing to produce, or cause to be
forthcoming, any negro or other personal chattel which he, she, or
they shall satisfactorily prove to have been in his or her quiet and
peaceable possession for four years next immediately preceding the
passing of this Act, or next immediately preceding the issuing of the

warrant.
Sec. II. [Bail in trover cases, see “‘ Bail,” sec. 95, this title.]

ART. XXI. SURETIES AND INDORSER8.‘

Sec. 430. Surety paying, has control. Sec. 442. Control by Bank indorser.
" 431. On appeal, «he. paying off. “ 443. Control vs. co-securities.

" 432. Judgment vs. surety on appeal. “ 441. By two jointly.

“ 433. Surety on stay; also. “ 445. Delivery of jlfa.

" 434. Defence by surety. “ 4&6. Control: bouajide purchaser.
“ 435. Surcties theretofore. “ 417. Judgment vs. indorsers. ’
“ 436. Evidence of suretyship. “ 448. Control as. co-sureties.

“ 437. Notice to indorsers. Suits vs. “ 449. By proof after judgment.

‘- 438. Notice to collect. “ 450. Judgment vs. surety alone.
“ 439. Control after judgment. “ 451. Suits vs. surety.

“ 410. Though no defense. “ 452. Control vs. co-surctics.

_ " 411. Notice to collect. " 453. Control by indorser.

An Act to dejine the duties of the Clerks of the Superior and I n ferior Courts of this State, and S/ter{fs.—Approved Dec. 15, 18 10.

Vol. II. 664.

[Secs 1. II. III. IV. See Art. XVII. Ofiicers of Court, sec. 374.]

430. Sec. V. Where it shall appear by the SheriiI’s return on
any execution or executions, that the same has been paid by a see urity or securities, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to make such entry in such docket book, and such security or securities shall have
the use and control of said execution for the purpose of remuneratingliim or themselves out of the principal for whom he or they

stood sccurity.'|'

An Act to define the liability of secur:'tz'es on appeal, on stay of execution, and for the protection of bail on reeogrtizance, bond,” note,
or other contract.—Approved Dec. 20, 1826. Vol. IV. 216.

431. In all cases where any person or persons hath heretofore
entered himself as security on appeal,‘ or for stay of execution in
any case, in any Court in this State, and may subsequently thereto
have paid off and discharged the execution issuing in such case, it
shall and may be lawful for such security to apply to the Sheriff,
Clerk, Constable, Marshal, or Attorney, to whom such payment may
be made, and procure an entry or certificate to be made on such execution that the same was paid by the security, and such security shall
thereupon be entitled to the use and control of such execution for
the purpose of proceeding against his principal.1'

432. Sec. II. In all cases of appeal where security hath been givcn, and hereafter given, and hereafter to be tried, it shall and may
be lawful for the plaintifff or his attorney to enter up judgment
against the principal and the security, jointly or severally,I and execution shall issue accordingly and proceed against either or both, ‘at the
option of the plaintifff until he is satisfied ;‘ Provided nevertheless, if
the execution against the security or securities be first paid by him
or them, then the execution against the principal shall still be of
force and under the control of the security or securities, until the
same be satisfied by said principal§

433. Sec. III. Where security shall have been given, or may
hereafter be given for the stay of an execution after judgment, execution shall issue as in cases of appeal against the principal and security, jointly or severally, and proceed and be controlled in like
tn.-.nner.I

434. Sac. IV. When any person or persons hath heretofore or
shall hereafter become bail on recognizance, or security on bond,
note, or other contract, and shall be sued thereon, it shall and may
be lawful for such bail or security on the trial of such case to make

special defense ;’ and in case it should appear to the Court that one‘

or more of the defendants is or are securities only, and not interested in the consideration of the contract sued on, then and in such
case verdict and judgment shall be entered accordingly, and further
proceedings had, and privileges exercised as hereinbefore prescribed
in behalf of the other securities; Provided, the plaintifff shall in no

. I
I

case be delayed by any dispute which may arise between the defendants, but the Court shall decide the issues and the verdict which may

have been finally rendered on the issues between the defendants,

shall relate back to the time of the verdict and judgment in favor of

the plaintifff.

_ 435. Sec. V. In all cases in which any person or- persons hath
heretofore become security in the manner hereinbefore specified, and

. judgment has been rendered against him or them, and execution has

been issued accordingly, in which they may be able to show that he
or they were security only, and as such hath or have been" paid off
and discharged such execution, such security or securities shall have
the benefit thereof, and power to control the same, for the purpose
of indemnifying himself or themselves out of the pro} erty of the
principal. .

_ 436. Sec. VI. When any security to any note, bond, or obligation, shall subscribe himself as security, such statement appended to
his name on the said note, bond, or obligation, shall be held and taken as good evidence of his being such security, and the plaintifff shall

‘sue out original and mesne process against him accordingly.1'

An Act to (Ignite I/ac liability Q/' cmlorsers of promissory notes and other inszrunmzls, and to piucc I/tcm u_pmt the smm:_/eating with su;ur£t£cs.—Approved Dec. 26, 1826. Vol. IV. 76.

437'. From and after the passage of this Act, that the practice
heretofore required of making a demand of the makers of promissory notes and other instruments. for the payment and performance
of the same, and their giving notice of such demand within a reasonafile time to the ends.-rsers of said promissory notes and other instruments,‘ shall cease and become entirely unnecessary to bind said
.endorsers, and whenever any person whatever endorses a promis‘sory note or other instrument, he shall be held, taken, and considered as security to the same, and he in all respects bound as security,
until said promissory note or other instrument is paid off and discharged,‘‘’ and shall be liable to be sued in the same manner and in
the same action with the principal or maker of said promissory notes
or other instruments; any law, practice, or usage to the contrary
notwithstanding: 1’rovz'cled always that nothing herein contained
aaliall extend to any promissory notes which shall be given for the
purpose of negotiation, or intended to be negotiated at any chartered
bank, or which may be deposited in any chartered bank for collection; aml12rov'idcd also, that nothing contained in this Act shall be

construedasto prevent the endorser from defining his liability in
the endorsement.

438. Sec. II. Any security or endorser may, Whenever he thinks
proper, after the note or instrument becomes due, require the holder to
proceed to collect the same ; and if he should not proceed to do so

within three months, the endorser or security shall be no longer
liable.’

An Act to alter and umcml an Act, enlitlczl an Act to define the liuIzi'z'.fy
qfscczrrt/it-s an appeal, on stag Q/'c.L'ccu.zirm, amljirr I/ace pro/cc/ion of
ll-Isl, ml rccogmzrmcc, bond, note or other coutract.—Approved Dec.

26,1831. Pam.13‘-’. , .

TVlzercas, doubts exist whether the security or securities, against
whom judgment has been rendered, and execution has issued accordingly, upon any contract, bond or note, since the passage of the
above—recitcd Act, .can have legally the control of the execution
where the sfvne l11S bee;1 paid elf by such security or securities, and
they have neglected to make special defense at the trial, to indemnify themselves out of the property of the principal; for remedy
whereof,

439. Bcircnacrcd, That from and after the passage of this Act.
it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, who have here- ,
tofore become security on any note, bond or other contract, and not
inte:cste;l i.1 the consideration thereof, and judgment has been ren-_
dered against them, and execution issued accordingly, and such se-‘
cu:-it; or securities have been heretofore compelled to pay elf suchf
jzidgmenter e.\'e-eution, he, she, or they, shall be entitled to the coutrel of the same for the purpose of reznuuerating him, her or them,
out of the property of the principal or principalszl Provider! always,
that it shall be made satisfactorily appear to the Court from whence the
execution iss:.:e:l, that such person or persons assuming to have the
control of any ju;lgm 3{1t or execution as aforesaid, were bona iide security or securities only, upon the original bond, note or contract, which
was the foundation of the judgment and execution.

410. Where any security or securities as aforesaid, shall fail at
the trial of the note, bond, or other instrument upon which he, she,
or they, were security or securities. to make special defense thereof, it shall be lawful for such security or securities to take control

fter p;iyuie2it thereof, of the saidji. /21.. after complying with the
requisitions of the first section of this Act, and that all laws and

parts of laws militating against this Act, are, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act declaring and nmking certain the law defining the liability
of endorsers and securities to promissory notes and o.‘her instruments, when the holder thereq/ shall fail to proceed to collect the
same after notz'ce.——Approved Dec. 26, 1831. Pam. 136.

Whereas, the Legislature of this State, did on the twenty-sixth
of December, 1826, pass an Act, entitled “an Act, to dehne the liability of endorsers of promissory notes and other instruments, and to
place them upon the same footing with securities,” by the second
section of which Act, it is provided, that “ any security or endorser
may whenever he thinks proper, after the note or instnunent becomes due, require the holder to proceed to collect the same, and if
he should not proceed to do so within three months, the endorser or
security shall be no longer liable ;” And whereas, the constitutionality
of said second section is doubted, by reason of its departure from
the title of said bill ; for remedy whereof,

44!. Be it enacted, That in every case which may hereafter arise,
where the security or endorser of any promissory note or other in’strument, after the same has or shall become due, has required or
'shall hereafter require the holder thereof to proceed to collect the
'same, and the said holder has not proceeded or shall not proceed to
‘do so, within three months after such notice or requisition, the endorser or security shall be no longer liable.‘

An Act to provide a remedy for imlorsers against all pn°orimIo1'ser: and
the makers of Inomissorg notes and other contracts, in certain cases
therein meutioned.—Assented to Dec. 21, 1839. Pam. 58.

442. SEC. 1. ' Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the
passage of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for all persons who
shall hereafter become endorsers on any promissory note, bond or
other contract, made in the face thereof payable at any chartered bank,
or which. shall be negotiated at any chartered bank, or deposited there
for collection,‘ and where said endorsers are not interested in the
consideration thereof, and judgment has been rendered against them,
and execution has been issued thereon accordingly, and where such

endorser or endorsers, shall hereafter be compelled to pay off such
judgments or executions, he, she, or they shall be entitled to the full
control of each and every judgment or execution that shall or may
be founded upon the same instrument as against the makers thereof,
and all prior eudorsers thereon, for the purpose of reimbursing and
remuneratiug him, her, or themselves out ‘of the property of said
maker‘ and endorsers: Provided, the person applying for such control shall make it appear to the Court from whence the execution is-:
sued, that he was only endorser thereon, and not interested in the
consideration of said contract, and that he has boua tide paid off
and discharged the judgment or execution that has been rendered or
issued against him, and all costs on the other judgments.
Sec. II. [Repealing c1ause.]

An Act for the relief of :S'ecm-ities.--Assented to Dec. 22, 1840.
Pam. 172.

' 443. W’herea.s, great inconvience arises, and often great injustice done
to individuals being parties in execution, under the existing law, as
co-securities—for the fact, that whereas one security (as the case
may be) having been compelled under execution to pay the debt or
obligation of his principal, is not allowed to control or collect by
said execution, each security’s proportionable part of said execution
so paid, but must proceed by an action at law; for remedy whereof,

See. I. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the pas-:
age of this Act, any security (who may be sued together with oth-,‘
er securities) shall pay or discharge any execution or executions}
issued against principal or co-securities, shall, after an entry is made‘
on the said executions by the collecting officer, that the same has
been well and truly paid by said security, then and in such cases,
the said security so paying or discharging said execution [shall have
control thereof] against each co-security who may have been made a
party to said suit, for the proportionable part equitably due by each,
and no more ;"’ Provided nevertheless, that all should be equally responsible ; if not, then to be equally divided or paid by those who are.’

444. Sec. II. Any execution so paid or satisfied by two or more se-'
curities, shall be held as the joint property of said securitie against all]
the parties equally concerned for their proportionable part.

445. Sec. III. After payment and entry made, as herein prescribed, .
it shall be the duty of the officer making the entry to deliver said}
execution to the security who shall have made the payment, to be
used and controlled as herein mentioned.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this law
be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to explain and amend the first section. of an Act approved
twentieth December, eighteen hundred and twenty-si.1:, entitled an
Actto define the liability of Securities on Appeal, on Stay of Erecntions, and for the protection of Bail on Recognisance, Bond,
Note or other Contract. Also to explain and amend the first section of an Act approved December twenty-sixth, eighteen hundred
and thirty-one, entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act, entitled
an Act to define the lz'abilz't-_2/ of Securities on Appeal, on Stay of
Executions, and for the protection of Bail on Recognizance, Bond,
Note. or other Contract.—Approved Dec. 27’, 1845. Pam. 41.

446. Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage
of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons who
have heretofore become security on any note, bond or other instrument

‘in writing, and not interested in the consideration, and judgment has
been rendered against them, and such security or securities have
been heretofore compelled to pay off such judgment, or may
hereafter be compelled to pay 011' such judgment, he, she or they
shall be entitled to the control of the same, and be permitted to use
and control the same in as full and ample a manner as the party
plaiutitf could have done against the principal debtor or debtors:
Provided always, that it shall be made satisfactorily appear to the
Court where said judgment was rendered, that such person, or persons assiuning to have the control of any judgment as aforesaid,
were bona fide securit.y or securities only, upon the original bond,
note, or other instrument, which was the foundation of the judgment. Provided further, that this Act shall not affect the rights of
any bona fide purchaser,'without actual notice of such secnrityship
and judgment, acquired before the fassage of the same.

All laws and parts of laws, militating against this Act, be and the
same are hereby repealed.

An Act to prescribe the mode of signing Judgment and issuing Erminon against E ndorsers in certain cases.-—ApproVed Dec. 27, 1845.
Pam. 39.

447. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, in all cases where one or more persons are endorsers upon
any bill of exchange, promissory note, or other instrument in writing, and separate suits may be prosecuted against such endorsers in
any Court of this State, it shall be the duty of the plaintiff or his
attorney in signing judgment in such suits against such endorsers.
to designate and identify the contract on which such judgment is
rendered, and that execution shall issue accordingly.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
he and are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, amend and explain the first section of an Act passed/'01‘
the relief of Co-securities, assented to the 22d December, 1840, and

to authorize Constables to levy certain E.1:ecut¢'ous—Approved Feb.
8, 1850. Pam. 277.

Whereas, great doubt exists whether a co-security who has. been
sued with other securities as such, as also co-securities who have
omitted to sign the original note or contract as security, and also neglected to make special defense at the trial of the same, showing him
or themselves security on the original contract, and against whom
executions have issued, and who have been compelled to pay off the
same, can have control of the same for the purpose of reimbursing
him or themselves out of the property of the co-securities :*

448. See. I. For remedy whereof, be it enacted, That from andj
immediately after the passage of this Act, any security who may:
have been, or who may hereafter be suedas such, with other co~securities, and against whom execution may have been, or may be issued, and who may have been, or may hereafter be compelled to
pay oil’ the same, shall, afteran entry made by the collecting officer,
that the same has been well and truly paid by such security, have
control of the execution or executions for the purpose of reimbursing him or themselves proportionably, out of the property of the
co-security or securities

449. Sec. II. Any security who may have been or may be suedj
together with other securities, and who have omitted or may omits
to sign the original note or contract as security, and who when suede
have neglected or may neglect to make special defense at the trial,‘
showing himself or themselves security on the original contract, andagainst whom execution has issued or may issue, and who have been
or may be compelled to pay off the same, ‘shall upon showing to the
Court from whence said execution or executions issued, that he or
they were bona tide security or securities on the original contract,
and not interested in the original consideration, have an entry by the
Court that he or they are security or securities on the execution or executions, and after which, and upon having an entry made by the
collecting officer, on the execution or executions, that the same has
been well and truly paid by said security or securities, then and in
such cases, said security or securities so paying off and discharging
said execution or executions, shall have control of the same for thepurposc of collecting by levy and sale from each co-security so sued‘;
together, or such as may be responsible, the proportionable share
due by each upon such execution or executions: Provided never‘llreless, that if any should not be responsible, then the amount so
paid on said execution or executions by such security, is to be equally divided between those securities who are.

Sec. III. [Authorizing Constables to levy executions against
Sheriff. See Art. 111. “Action,” “Execution, Sale,” doc. sec.

‘Z05, of this title.] a
Snc. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed. '

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend an Act
entitled an Act to dejiue the liability of sureties on Appeals, Qcc.

Approved December 26th, 183l.—Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam.
280.

_ 450. See. I. Be it enacted, That whenever any person has or
ishall become surety on any note, bond or other contract, and fails to
sign his name as such, and separate actions are brought against such
surety and his principal, and the surety shall or may pay off the
judgment rendered against himself, and shall make it appear to the
Court in which the judgment was obtained, that he was only a surety on such bond, note, doc. and not interested in the consideration
thereof, that then and in that event, he shall be entitled to the control of the judgment against his principal for the purpose of remun-~

crating himself out of his property.
451. Sec. II. When any surety shall or may sign his nameas

‘such, to any bond, note or other contract, and separate suits are

brought against him and his principal, that he shall be sued as surety
and as such, mesne and final process shall go against him, and on his
paying off the judgment obtained against himself, he snall have control of the execution against his principal for his reimbursement.

452. Sec. III. Where there are two or more sureties to any
note, bond, or other written contract, and such sureties are or may be
sued in separate actions, the surety paying off the debts shall have
the control of the executions obtained against his co-sureties, for
the purpose of collecting out of them their pro rata part of the debt ;
and if such surety should fail to sign his name as such, then on his
making it appear to the Court in which such suit was brought, that
he was only asurety, and not interested in the consideration of the
debt, he shall have the control of the executions issued against his
co-securities to the same extent and for the same purpose as is provided in the foregoing part of this section.

453. Sec. IV. If separate suits are or hereafter may be brought
in any of the Courts of this State, against the maker and endorsers

-of any promissory note, and the debt is or may be collected of one of
"said endorsers, in that event such endorser, for his reimbursement,

shall have the control of the execution issued against the maker of

the note, as well also as of the execution obtained against any of the
prior endorsers.

Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.

ART. XXII. USURY.

Sec. 464. Discovery of Usury, Sec. 466. Examination of party.
“ 465. Proof by defendant. ‘

An Act to compel parties plaintiffs in the several Courts of this
State, where the plea of Usury isnled, to discover on oath, the

truth or falsehood of the facts stated in such plea, or to allow the
defendant, in case of refusal by the plaintij, to establish the facts
contained in such plea by his own oath, without a bill for discovery.—Assented to Dec. 28, 1842. Pam. 178.. '

454. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of 1
this Act, that in all cases in the several Courts in this State, when:
the plea of usury shall be pleaded, the party plaintifff in such case,}
upon notice of such plea, accompanied by a copy of such plea, and j
which shall be served upon said plaintifff, his agent or attorney,j
within one month from the filing of such plea of the case in the
Superior or Inferior Court, and within ten days, if the case is in?
any Justice’s Court, or any other Court, discover on oath, by his writ-5
ten affidavit, to be made before some officer legally authorized to
administer an oath, whether the fact or facts set forth in said plea,
are true as to the usury, and whether or not the contract upon which

said suit is brought was usurious, and such written affidavit may be A

read in evidence on the trial of said case by either party.’

455. Sec. II. If any party plaintifff shall fail or refuse to make
the discovery as provided in the first section of this Act, that the
party defendant in said case may make an affidavit in wiiting, before
any officer authorized to administer an oath, of the truth of the
facts set forth in his pleaas to the usury therein pleaded, and said
affidavit of the defendant may be read on the trial by either party to
said case.

456. Sec. III. The party where affidavit is used as evidence
as provided in the first or second sections of this Act, shall be put
upon the stand, and cross examined by the other party as other
witnesses. .

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

B. CITY COURTS OF SPECIAL JURISDICTION.

X111‘. I. CITY comm‘ or AUGUSTA.
« II. crrr comer or SAVA.\'NAII.
« 111. cmr COURT or DARIEN.
« Iv. POLICE COURT o1«‘s.iv.u<.\*.uL

ART. I. THIS COURT OF COMMON PLE.-XS FOR THE CITY OF AUGUSTA.‘

See. 1. Title of Mayor. Sec. 31. Residence of defendant.
“ 2. Mayor's Court. “ 32. Judgment by default.
“ 3. J uriszliclion and Jurors. “ 33. Appeals.

“ 4. Commencement of suit. “ 34. Special Jurors.

‘- 5. Joint obligors. “ 35 Summons.

'0 6. Bail. " 36. Damages.

“ 7. \Vitnesses and subpwnns. “ 37. Insolvent.-u fraud.

-- 8. Interrogatories. _ “ 38. Costs, Jury fees.

‘- 9. Executions. ' “ 39. Bail.

‘c 10. Attachments. -‘ 40. Opening and adjournment.
'6 11. Clerk and Sheriff. “ 41. Insolvent debtors.

‘- 12. Their fees. “ 42. Court fees.

*6 13. Sale days. " 43. Uarnishment.

'6 14. Consolidation of cases. “ 44. 1)» bone ow-, 65:9.

to 15. Style of Court. “ 45. Power ofcouncil.

H 16. Election of Judge. " 46. Court fees.

N’ 17. Jurisdiction extended. “ 47. Distress for rent.

to 18. Attorney's fees. “ 48. Judgment by default.
to 19. Clerk and Sheriff's fees. " 49. Mortgages.

6' 20. Judges fees. “ 50. Sheritfs fees.

« 21. Ju:lgment and Execution. “ 51. Uommencemo-nt of suit.
or 22. Suits vs. Clerk and Sheriff. ‘' 62 J udges‘ salary.

u 23. Attachment, Evidence. ‘¢ 53. Judgment 2d term.

as 2-4. Jurisdiction extended. ‘* 54. Process.

to 25. Habeas corpus. “ 55. Gurnishment.

to 25$. Attachments. “ 66. Disability of Council.
to 27. Judge interested. 9 “ 57. Vacancy of Clerk.

*4’ 28. Rent cases. “ 58. Sessions of Court. 0
or 29. Non-resident defendant. “ 69. Court fees.

I6

30. Stay of execution.

An Act to cs/ablis/L a Mayn1"s Court in the city of Augusta, and to

add an udzlz'tz'oual mcmbrr to the City Council tlzercq/l—Approved
Dec. 19, 1817. Vol. III. 993.

1. Sec. 1. From and after the first day of January next, the
Chief Magistrate of the City of Augusta shall be known and addressed by the appellation of Mayor, and not intendant of the City of
Augusta.1' I

: 2. Sec. II. A Miyorls Court shall be established, and the same

’ is hereby created and established in the City of Augusta, to go into
operation after the first day of January next, And the aforesaid Mayor of the City of Augusta shall be, and he is hereby constitutedJudge
of the said Court.I

An Act to amend the foregoiing.—Approved ‘December 17, 1818.
Vol. III. 994.

3. See. I. From and after the passing this Act, the Mayor’s Court
of the City of Augusta, shall have cognizance of all causes of a
civil nature, &c., which shall be tried by a Jury of twelve men, to
whom shall be administered the oath prescribed by the Judiciary Act

of 1799 for Jurors in other Courts, which trial shall be final ;* but.
the Judge of said Court may nevertheless grant a new trial when in.

his opinion, the principles of Law and Justice, and the rights of the

case required it. And the Mayor is hereby authorized and empow-‘J
ered in term time or vacation, to draw and impannel Jurors for the

trial of such causes, who shall be resident within the jurisdiction of

said Court, and who shall be qualified and liable to serve as petit Jurors f
in the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, and to cause the

said Jurors to be summoned by the City Sheriff, at least five days
before the sitting of the Court, and to fine them for non-attendance or
misconduct, not exceeding ten dollars for any one offense.

Sec. II. The first part of this section is superseded by subsequent Actsj But if the said Court, from any cause whatever,

shall fail to meet, the proceedings in said Court shall not thereby be:
discontinued, but shall stand continued over in the same manner as

if such failure had not taken place. And the Jury surnmond to attend such Court shall stand over and be considered as the Jury for‘

the next term, and be liable to attend at such succeeding term, any
law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. And all witnesses and Jurors going to, attending on, and returning from said
Court, shall be free from arrest on any civil process.

4. Sec. III. All suits or causes, cognizable by, and which may
be commenced in the Mayor’s Court of the City of Augusta, shall be
by petition to the said Court; which petition shall plainly, fully, and
distinctly set forth the plaintifff ’s charge, allegation, demand, or cause
of action, and shall be signed by the plaintifff, or his, her, or their attorney ; to which petition the Clerk of the Mayor’s Court shall annex
a process signed by him, which process shall bear teste in the name
of the Mayor, as Judge of said Court, and shall be directed to the Sheriff
of the City of Augusta, requiring the defendant or defendants to appear
at the Court to which the same shall be made returnable, and shall be
served on the defendant or defendants, at least five daysf before the
return thereof, by delivering a copy to such defendant or defendants,
or by leaving such copy at his, her, or their most notorious place or
places of residence. And all process issued and returned in any other
manner than as herein directed, shall be null and void. And the defendaut or defendants shall appear at the Court, to which the petition and process shall be returnable, and on or before the last day of
the said Court, shall make his, her, or their defense or answer in
writing, which shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth the cause
of thédefense, and be signed by the party making the same, or his,

her or their attorney ;- which said answer may contain as many several matters, not iiconsistent with each other, as may be deemed
necessary for the defense: Provide! that no person shall be permitted to deny any deed, bond, bill, single or penal, note, draft, receipt,
or order, unless he, she, or they shall make affidavit of the truth of
such answer at the time of filing the same. And the said petition
and answer shall be sufficient to carry the cause to the Jury. And
no dilator y answer shall be received, unless affidavit be made of the
truth thereof. And if any defendant shall fail to appear and answer
as aforesaid, the Court may, on motion, give judgment by default,
but the cause shall nevertheless be tried b y a J ury at the succeeding
term; and no cause cognizable in said Court shall be tried at the
‘first term.’

5. Sec. IV. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in the said

l Court on abond, note or other wi itten obligation, subscribed by several
' persons, and which in its nature is joint, several,or joint and several, or
upon any joint,or joint and several contract whatever,whether verbal or
written, express or implied, and whether made by copartners in trade
or any other person whatever, it shall be lawful to commence suit
against any one or more of the persons who have signed such instrument of writing, or who are parties to or bound by such contract,
and who shall reside within the jurisdiction of said Court, and a service upon any one or more of the persons against whom the actionis
commenced, shall be deemeda suiiicient service to enable the party
plaintifff to proceed with his said suit or action, against the person or
persons so served, and the Court may give judgment accordingly.
6. Sec. V. In all cases where bail shall be required, the party
requiring bail shall make oath before the Mayor, or any member
of the City Council, or before any one of the Judges of the Superior
Courts, the Justices of the Inferior Courts, or Justices of the Peace,
within this State, of the amount claimed by him, and that he has
reason to apprehend the loss of said sum or some part thereof, if the
defendant or defendants is or are not held to baild; And the subsequent proceedings shall conform to those prescribed in cases of bail
in the Superior and Inferior Courts, by the Judiciary Act of force in

this State, due regard being had to the nature of the different tribunals.

7'. Sec. VI. The Clerk of the Mayor’s Court shall be, and he is
hereby authorized and required to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses, upon the application of any party in a cause
pending in said Court, which subpoena shall be directed to the person
whose attendance shall be required,when such person shall reside within the limits of the corporation of Augusta,which subpoena shallexpress
the cause and the party at whose suit it shall be issued, and shall be
served by the City Sheriif or any other person, on said witness, at
least one day before _the Court to which it shall be returnable ; and
the atiidavit of the person serving the same, shall be suiiicient evidence of such service; and witnesses thus subpoenaed shall be bound
to attend till the cause in which he, she, or they shall be summoned,
shall be tried, and on failure to attend, shall be subject to attachment,
and also to an action at the suit of the party aggrieved by his, her,
or their non-attendance; and each and every witness shall be allowed
fifty cents per day for each and every day he, she, or they attend, by virtue of such subpcnna, to be recovered in the manner
pointed out by the laws now in force, for the recovery of the amount
due witnesses for their attendance on the Superior and Inferior
Courts of this State. .

8. Sec. VII. Where any witness resides beyond the limits of the
corporation of Augusta, it shall and may be lawful for either party,
on giving at least three day’s notice to the opposite party, or his, her,
or their attorney, accompanied with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be exhibited, to obtain a commission from the Clerk of
the Court, directed to two or more persons as commissioners, to examine all and every such witness or witnesses on such interrogatories
as the parties may exhibit, and such examination shall be read at
the trial on motion of either party.‘

9. Sec. VIII. All executions shall be iss.1ed and signed by
the Clerk of the Mayor’s Court, at any time after the signing of judgment by the party or his attorney ; and shall bear teste in the name
of the Mayor as Judge of said Court, and shall be directed to the
Sheriff of the City,1' and may be levied upon the estate, both real and
personal, of the defendant or defendants, or issue against the body
of the defendant or defendants, at the option of the plaintifff,
which execution shall be of full force until satisfied. And in all cases of illegality of execution or claims of property, levied upon by virtue of any execution issuing from the Mayor’s Court, the like proceedings shall be had thereon, as are prescribed in cases of executions
issuing from the Superior and Inferior Courts of this State, by the
Judiciary Act of 1799. And all sales of property levied upon, by
virtue of any execution issuing from the Mayor’s Court, shall be on
the third Tuesday in each month, at the market house in the City of
Augusta, and between the hours of ten o’clock in the forenoon, and
three o’clock in the afternoon of the day. And it shall be the duty of
the Sheriff to give at least ten days’ notice in one of the public gazettes
of the City of Augusta, of all sales of property executed by him, and
also to advertise the same at the Court house and Market house in
mid City, and which advertisement shall make known the names of
the parties to the execution.

10. Sec. IX. From and after the passing of this Act, it shall and
may be lawful for the Mayor, or any member of the City Council of the
City of Augusta, to issue attachments‘ returnable to the Mayor’s
Court in cases( within the jurisdiction of said Court) where both debtor
and creditor shall reside without the limits of the State of Georgia, or‘
where the debtor alone resides without those limits, or where a debtor
shall be actually removing from the City of Augusta, or so absconds
or conceals himself, that the ordinary process of law cannot be served

upon him in the same manner, and upon the same terms, asarc prescribed fer the issuing attachments returnable to the Superior and Inforior Courts of this State ; which attachment shall be directed to the
Sheriff of the City of Augusta, and shall be levied upon the property
of the defendant, within the corporate limits of the said City, in like
manueras is prescribed for the levy of attachments. returnable to the
Sn pcrior and Inferior Courts of this State: Provided, that every attachment shall bear teste in the name of the Miyor or member of Council
issuing the same, and shall be by the City Sheriff publicly advertised
at the door of the house in which the Mayor’s Courts are holden, at
least five days before the sitting of the Court ; and the proceedings
under attachments in the Mayor’s Courts shall be the same in all
cases where such proceedings can be made applicable, as are prescr'bed by the Attachment Acts of force in this State, any law,
usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.
l 11. Sec. X. It shall azid may be lawful for, and it is hereby
[made the duty of the City Council of Augusta, at their first regiilar
meeting after the first day of January in each and every second year,
to elect by ballot, a Clerk for the Mayor’s Court, and a Sheritf for the
City of Augusta, who shall take an oath, and give security as h-:-rein
pointed out: that is to say, the Clerk so elected, shall take the Mimi‘ing oath, before the Mayor or any member of the City Council: "i do
-solemnly swear or affism, thatl will truly and faithlitlly enter and record all the orders, decrees, judgments, and other proceedings of the
MJ.yor‘s.Court of the City of Augusta and all other matter: and
things which by law ought by me to be recorded, and that i will
faitlifully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties r«:.;‘~1ircl of me, to the best of my understanding ”—-and such Clerk bllilll
enter into bond, with one or more good and sufficient security or securities, to the Governor for the time being, in the sum of one timisand dollars conditioned for the faithful discharge - of the dnti~;~ requirel of him; and the said Clerk shall, by virtue of his otEi—:<+. be
Justice of the Peace, so far as to administer all o:.it'.1s, appertainvi-.f to
the b:1si.1ess of his office ; and it shall be the duty of said Cl.::i\:, to
copy into a buck of record, all the pl'UCi.‘.:3Lllilg.‘$ in said Chi;-2.. for
which he shall be allowe;l the sum of ten cents for every lm:i;l.‘etl
words of recor;ling such proceedings, to be taxed in the bill oft: f;~[S;

and the said Clerk shall also keep regular and fair minutes of ail the
proceedings in the said Court, which shzill be signed by the .::i».ge
of the said Court: and the City Sheriif shall, in like I11'.1lllr{';', t:.l\'e
the following oath : “ I do solezntily swear (or ailirin as §;~~ ms.c

may be) that I will faithfully execute all writs, warrants, Pi('{.t_'ptS
and processes, directed to me as Sheriff of the City of Augusta, and
true returns make, and in all things well and truly, and without malice or partiality, perform the duties of the office of Sheriff of the tfity
of Augusta, during my continuance in office, and take only my lawful fees ;” and an oath to the same purport shall be taken by the depiity
of the said Sheriff, should he think proper to appoint one, which lie is
hereby anthorizezl to do inlike manner ; and the said City Sl1eri£‘r‘ all
enter into bond with two good and sufficient securities to the favernor for the time being, and his successors in eflicc, in the sum of

ten thousand dollars, conditioned For the faithful performance of his
duty, by himself and his_deputies; and which bond the Mayor or
any member of the Council is authorized to take ; and the said Clerk
and Sheriff shall in every instance continue in office, until a successor shall be appointed and qualilied, notwithstanding the period shall
have elapsed for which they shall have been elected; and the Clerk
and Sherilf upon going out of office, shall turn over to their successors, all papers and process of what nature or kind soever in their
possession ; and the said succeeding SheriH' shall be empowered and
reiuired to carry into effect any levy made by his predecessor, and
shall make titles to the purchasers for all the property sold under
execution, and not conveyed by his predecessor : and the same remedy may be had against the said Clerk and Sheriff, as is prescribed
by the Judiciary Act against Clerks and Sheriffs, in the respective
Counties of this State. ' '

12. Sec. XI. The Clerk of the Mayor’s Court, and the Sheriff of
the City of Augusta, shall be authorized to charge, demand, and receivethe same fees that the Clerks of the Superior Courts, and the
Sherifs of the respective Counties in this State, are by law at.thorized to charge, demand, and receive for the performance of similar duties; and shall have the same remedy for enforcing payment
of their fees respectively as are employed by those officers respectively, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary netwithstanding.""

An .12: to am 2nd an A ‘t establislring a Illa;/or’s Court in the City
of Au_gusta, and also the several Laws inco:°porating said Cz't_1/.
Approved Dec. 9, 18:32. Vol. IV. 210.

Sec. 1. and II. [Superseded by subsequent Acts]

13. Sec. III. Tue sale day of the Sheriif of said City shall be:
on the first Tuesday in the mmth; and in all cases of levy on real:
estate or negroes, the time of alvertising and all other proceedings
shallbe the same asis re.1uired by law of the County Sheriffs in
similar cases. , .

14. Sec. IV. The said M.1yer’s Court shall not maintain jurisdic-4
tion of more than one case at the same term hetweezi the same par-i
ties, when such causes can be lcgallyjoinedin one action, although‘
the same may be on dilferent contracts ; but the same shall on motion be consolidated, and the defendant shall not be bound to pay
any more cost tirm \v;);1l1 have £lC«3.'!lZ‘.l on one action ; and when i
on such cJDSOllLiJ.tl0!1 the annutit (l0m1‘-.1Li8d shall exceed the jurisdiction of said Court, as hereinbefore expresscl, the plaintiff shall
be non suit.

An Ac!_/or I/ac be/.'cr organization Q/'1/zc Ills/_z/0r’s Court of the City of
Augusta. uudfor c’/ranging the mun; Q/'1/re same.-—Passe'.l in 1826.

Vol. IV. 218.

15. From and after the passing of this Act, the Court now known

as the Mayor’s Court of the City of Augusta, shall be called the
Court of Common Pleas for the City of Augusta. 16. Sec. II. The Judge of the said Court shall be elected by the
Legislature immediately after the passing of this Act, and shall hold
his office for the term of three years, unless removed therefrom by
the Governor, on the address of two-thirds of both houses of the
General Assembly.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
are hereby repealed.

An Act to regulate the jurisdiction of the Court of Common Plea: for the

1 City of Augusta, tltejees 0/ the Attorneys, Clerk and S/zerzf tlzercof,
and for diminishing the number qfits terms from twelve to jinn‘ during
the yedr '; andfor other pmj2ose.s.—Approved Dec. 19, 1828. Vol.
IV. 224. .

In

17'. From and after the passage of this Act, the Court of Com'mon Pleas for the City of Augusta shall have jurisdiction over any
suit or action ex contractu, wherein the principal debt amounts to the
sum of two hundred and titty dollars, exclusive of interest ; and in
any suit or action ex delicto, wherein the damages claimed do not
exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, but not in any
suit or action over which Justices of the Peace have hitherto had
jurisdiction."

Sec. II. [Fixing the Court terms-—superseded.] .

18. Sec. III. The attorneys practising in said Court shall receive
as a tax-fee on all suits brought before said Court, and perfected to
judgment, the sum of three dollars; and on all suits brought and
settled before judgment, the sum of two dollars.

19. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court aforesaid shall have and
receive but two-thirds of the fees heretofore allowed to each respectively hy law, and the practice of said Court, to be charged as costs
against the suiters in said Court.

20. Sec. IV. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court,
upon the institution of any suit to collect and receive from the
plaintifff the fee which is a.lowed by law to the Judge of said Court
and required to be advanced at the institution of said suit.'|'

21. Sec. V. All judgments obtained in said Court, shall have a
lien on all property belonging to defendant throughout the State,
and all executions shall be directed to the City Sheriff, and all and
singular the Sheriffs of the State of Georgia, and may be levied on
property throughout the said State: Provided, that the City Sheriii‘ shall levy all executions on property within the limits of the corporation.
22. See. VI. The Sheriff and Clerk of said Court shall be liable

:to be sued in said Court, inthe same names [manner] in which other
parties are made defendants; and when the Clerk of said Court shall
be defendant in any suit or action, it shall be the duty of said

Clerk to copy the petition upon which the said suit is founded, and
annex a process thereto, which shall be signed by the Judge of said
Court, and shall be served in the same manner as in other cases; and
it shall be the duty of the Clerli aforesaid to make out final process
in any case in which he may be interested, which shall be signed by
the Judge of said Court, and executed as in all other cases; and
when the Sheriff of the Court aforesaid shall be defendant in any
suit brought before the Court aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful
for the Marshal of the City, or any one of the City Constables, to
effect service on said City Sherilf, and such service shall be deemed
good and valid; and it shall moreover be lawful for the Marshal, or
any City Constable, to execute all processes against the Sheriff, and
the proceedings thereon shall be the same as in other Courts.

23. Sec. VII. All laws regulating attachments"" in relation to
evidence and the taking of depositions by interrogatories, in force
in the Superior Courts of this State, shall be of force in the City
Court.

Sac. VIII. All laws or parts of laws repugnant to the provisions
of this Act, are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the several Acts respecting the Court of Common
Pleas of the City of Augusta.—Approved Dec. 21, 1829. Vol.
IV. 226.

24. From and after the passage of this Act the Court of Commen Pleas for the City of Augusta, shall have jurisdiction in all
civil cases (except such as involve title to real estate, or that may
fall within a Magistrate’s jurisdiction,) where the sum claimed, or
the demands of the plaintifff shall not exceed the sum of three hundred dollars, exclusive of interest.1' '

25. Sec. II. The Judge of the said Court of Common Pleas
shall, in the absence of the Judge of the Superior, have concurrent

jurisdiction with the Justices of the Inferior Court, in all matters.

of habeas corpus, and shall also have full power and authority to issue warrants upon criminal charges, to examine persons apprehended under said warrants, and to commit, discharge, or admit to bail
inthe same manner that a Justice of the Peace may now do: Provided, that the offense charged, and upon which the said Judge may
isue his warrant, hath been committed, or that the same is alleged
to have been committed in the said City of Augusta.

26. Sec. III. The Judge of said Court of Common Pleas, or
any member of the City Council, shall have full power and authority to issue attachments, which shall be returnable to the said Court,
and within the jurisdictional amount of the same _in all those cases
where a Judge or other officer may now, according to law, issue attachmentaj:

.n 27. Sec. IV. In all cases brought in the said Court, where the

‘Judge thereof shall be a party or interested therein, it shall be the
duty of a Justice of the Inferior Court of Richmond County to preside at the trial of the same.

28. Sec. V. All actions commenced in said Court for the recovery of rent, or arrear, shall be tried at the first term, unless good
cause be shown for acontinuance ; and judgment shall be given upon
all writs of scire facias against bail at the term of said Court to which
they may be returnable, unless sufiicicnt cause be shown for a continuance.
,, 29. Sec. VI. In all cases where a suit shall be instituted in the

said Court, on any open account, bond, note or other obligation in
Writing, against two or more persons, and any of the defendants in
said suit shall reside out of the City of Augusta, the Clerk of said

' Court shall make out an original petition and process, and a copy or
copies thereof for each County in which the defendant or defendants
may reside ; and it shall be the duty of the plaintifff, or his attorney,
to deliver the said original and copy to the Sheriff of the County
in which the defendant or defendants may reside, whose duty it
shall be to serve the same and to make due return thereof to the said
Court, and the plaintifff shall then proceed as in other cases: Prom’ded, that at least one of the defendants reside in said City, and be
served with process. Size. VII. [Superseded]

30. SEC. VIII. Any party against Whom a judgment may beentered, may stay the levy of execution for the space of sixty days, on
payment of all costs, and giving good andssufficient security within
four days after judgment for the payment of the debt so recovered,
and all,future costs which may accrue therein; and if such party
shall fail to pay the same agreeably thereto, execution may issue
against such party and the security, without any other proceeding
thereon.

Sec. IX. Any law or parts of laws militating against the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to amend the several Acts

respecting the Court of Common Pleas of the City of Augusta.—
Approved Dec. 21, 1830. Pam. 53.

31. All suits instituted in the Court of Common Pleas, of the
City of Augusta, shall in future be confined to party defendants,
who reside at the time of commencing suit within the corporate
limits of the City of Augusta.
~ Sec. II. Any law, or parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the several Acts regulating the Courts of Common
Pleas for the City of Augusta.-—-Approved Dec. 26, 1831. Pam.
93.

32. From and after the passing of this Act, in all cases brought 1:
in said Court, wherein no plea shall be filed, the Court shall award dl
judgment upon proof of the plaintifff ’s demand.*

33. From and after the passing of this Act, in case either partyA
shall be dissatisfied with any verdict rendered in any cause in said
Court, an appeal shall be allowed to such party, upon compliance
with the law now of force, regulating appeals ; but the said appeal
shall not be transmitted to the Superior Court as heretofore, but shall
be tried as is hereinafter directed.

34. Immediately after the passing of this Act, and every second 8
term thereafter, it shall be the duty of the Judges of said Court, J’
with the aid of the Clerk and Sheriff of said Court, to select from the
list of tax returns made to the City Council of Augusta, lit and proper persons to serve as special Jurors in said Court, who shall reside
in said City, and it shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court, to
make out tickets with the names of the persons so selected, which re
tickets shall be put in a box to be provided by the Clerk, which box
shall have two apartments, marked number one and two, and the
Clerk shall immediately after receiving such list fairly enter the
same in a book to be provided by him for that purpose, which said
box shall be locked and sealed up by the Judge and placed in the
care of the Clerk, and the key in the care of the Sheritf, and no
Jury shall be drawn and impanueled, but in presence of the Judge
in open Court, and it shall be the duty of the Judge in open Court at
each time, to unlock and break the seal, and cause to be drawn out of
the apartment of the said box marked number one, twenty-three names
to serve as special Jurors at the next term of said Court, which names
so drawn out, shall afteran account is taken of them at each time of
drawing, be deposited in the other apartment of such box marked
number two; and when all the names shall be drawn out of the
apartment number one as aforesaid, they shall commence drawing
from number two, and placing in number one, and so on alternately.

35. The twenty-three persons whose names shall be drawn as.
aforesaid, shall be summoned in the same manner as Petit Jurors
now are in said Court, and in case of failure of any of them to at.
tend, each of them so failing shall be fined in a sum not exceeding
twenty dollars.

36. \‘Vhen any appeal cause in said Court, shall be called for tri-.
al, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to furnish list of special Jurors
in attendance, and a Jury of twelve shall be struck in the same way
and manner as is now required by law in the Superior Courts; and

in case a sufficient number of special Jurors should not attend, the
Court shall have power to attach and bring in those who are in default, or to summon tales Jurors, or both. And on special Jury trials,
in said Court, the Jury shall have the same power to assess damages,
asspecial Juries have in the Superior Court, and shall be sworn:
“ well and truly to try the causes submitted to them, and true ver‘
dicts to give, according to law and evidence.”

37'. When any application shall be made to said Court, by any insolvent debtor or debtors, for the benefit of the Act for the relief of
honest debtors, and a suggestion of fraud or concealment, or both,

“shall be made by the creditor or creditors of said debtor or debtors,
the said suggestion shall be tried before the special Jury.

I. 38. In all appeal causes in said Court, the same costs shall be taxed as are taxed in the Superior Court in such cases; and all the expenses of furnishing record books, dockets, fire wood for Clerk’s office, and stationary for the use of said Court, shall be paid out of the
money that may be collected for Jury hues, and the balance remaining at each term after paying said expenses, shall be paid to the City
Council of Augusta.

t 39. Whenever bail shall be required in any case about to be instituted in said Court, it shall be lawful and suilicient to serve the defendant with a process and copy of the afliclavit, as in cases of bail
pending the action, and at the term to which the said process is returnable, the plaintifff shall file his declaration, and the subsequent
proceedings shall be as in other cases ; and whenever such process,
with a copy of the affidavit annexed, and a copy or copies of such
process and affidavit, shall be placed in the hands of the Sheriff of
said Court, it shall be the duty of said Sheriff to arrest the defendant
or defendants, to serve him, her or them with a copy or copies of said
process and atiidavit, and to deal with him, her, or them, as is now
required by the laws of force in this State, regulating cases where bail
is required. '

40. In the absence of the Judge of said Court by indisposition or
otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Clerk or Sheriff of said Court
to open and adjourn the sa.me from day to day, as circumstances may
require.

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act are hereby

repealed.

An Act to give jurisdiction to the Court of Common Pleas of Augusta, of certain cases of insolvent debtors, and to alter sessions qf said
Court —-Approved Dec. 24, 1832. Pam. 115.

41. The Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of the City of Augusta, shall have concurrent jurisdiction, with the Judges of the Superior Courts and Justices of the Inferior Court, in all cases where any
debtor shall be arrested and committed to jail in Richmond County,
under mesne process, or under execution from any of the Courts of
this State; and when any application shall be made by any such"
debtor to the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, for the benefit of
the insolvent laws, the same proceedings shall be had in said Court
of Common Pleas, as is now required by law, when such application
is made to the Judges of the Superior Courts or Justices of the Inforior Court.

II. [Court Terms, superseded.]

All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, be and the

same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend the several Acts in relation to the Court of Common
Pleas of Augusta.—Approved Dec. 22, 1834. Pam. 92.

42. From and after the passing of this Act the following fees shall‘
be collected by the Clerk of said Court, of the persons and in the
manner that may be pointed out by rule or order of said Court, and
shall be taxed in the bill of costs in the cases in which they are paid,
viz: On all suits brought in said Court where plaintiff’s demand
shall not exceed one hundred dollars, the sum of two dollars shall be
taxed ; on all suits where the plaintifff ’s demand shall exceed one hundred and not exceed two hundred dollars, the sum of three dollars
shall be taxed; an?! on all suits where the plaintifff's demand shall
exceed two hundred dollars, the sum of four dollars shall be taxed ;""
and on each claim case, on each traverse of an answer to a summons
in garnishment, on each appeal cause and on each suggestion of fraud,
(where any debtor shall apply for the benefit of the insolvent laws,)
the sum of three dollars shall be taxed; which fees shall be paid by
the Clerk to the Judge of said Court,1' (as the compensation of the:
Judge for the discharge of the duties of his office,) at such time or‘
times as said Court may, by rule or order direct; and on failure to
pay the same, the Clerk may be attached as for a contempt, and the
same may be recovered in an action upon the bond given by the
Clerk against him and his securities.

43. Sec. II. Said Court shall have jurisdiction in all cases in‘
garnishment, as well when the debt of the garnishee to the defendant
shall exceed, as when it shall fall short of the sum of three hundred
dollars;

44. Sec. III. All laws of force in the Superior Courts of this
State, in relation to the taking of evidence by interrogatories under}
commission or de bene esse, and in relation to subpmnas duces tecum,
shall be of force in the Court of Common Pleas of Augusta.

An Act to amend the Act incorporating the City of Augusta, am] the

several Acts amendatory thereo/I—Approved Dec. 24, 1835.
Pam. 30.

45. Sec. IV. From and after the pitssing of this Act, when any‘
person shall be summoned and shall appear before the City Council;
to answer for a violation of the City ordinances, and upon an inves-;
tigation of the charge, it shall appear to the City Council that such
individual has committed an offense punishable by the laws of this
Stew, it shall be the duty of the City Council to bind over him or
her, with good and sufficient security, to appear at the next term of
the Superior Court of Richmond County, to answer for such offense,
and in case such offender shall refuse or be unable to give security,
the City Council may commit him or her to jail or discharge him or

her on his or her own recognizance, at the discretion of the said City
Council.

Sec. V. When any vacancy shall hereafter happen in the office
of the Clerk‘ or Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas of Augusta,
by death, resignation, or otherwise, the City Council shall proceed to
fill such vacancy as soon as practicable; and until the same is filled,

rthe Marshal of the City shall be competent and it shall be his duty to
serve any process issued from or returnable to said Court, directed to
the Sheriff of said City.

An Act to amend the several Acts -in relation to the City of Augusta, and
the Court of Common Pleas q/‘said Cilg.—-Approyed Dec. 30, 1836.
Pam. 116.

[The first and second sections relate to the City Council of Augusta.]

46. Sec. III. From and after the first day of January next, the
‘Court of Common Pleas of said City, shall have jurisdiction of all
cases where the defendants reside in said City, in which the debt,
(exclusive of interest, )or damages claimed, shall be above the jurisdiction of a Justice’s Court, and shall not exceed the sum of five
hundred dollars; and of all claim causes, where personal property
is levied on under executions from said Court.

47. Sec. IV. The Judge of said Court, or the Mayor, or
any member of the Council of said City, shall be authorized to issue warrants directed to the Sheriff of said City, authorizing him to
distrain for rent in arrear: Provided, the sum claimed be within
the jurisdiction of said Court, and all subsequent proceedings shall
be the same in said Court, as if the said warrants had been issued
by a Judge of the Superior or Justices of the Inferior Court.

. 48. Sec. V. The sessions of said Court shall, after the first of
January next, be quarterly; namely, on the second Monday of February, May, August, and November, in each year, and that in all
cases where the defendants shall fail to plead, judgment may be entered by the Court at the first term upon proof of the plaintifffs claim
or demand, but the defendant shall be allowed an appeal from such
judgment within the time, and in the manner now prescribed by
laws]49. Sue. VI. All mortgages upon personal property, for an
‘amount within the jurisdiction of said Court, may be foreclosed in
the said Court, in the same way and manner as in the Superior or
Inferior Court, and all subsequent proceedings thereon, shall be in
said Court, and such as are prescribed by the law now of force.

50. Sec. VII. In all cases of the return of any distress warrant
or mortgageexecution, to said Court, for further proceedings, the
same fee shall be paid by the plaintifff, as in other cases of like
amount.

51. Sec. VIII. All suits in said Court shall be commenced at
least ten days before the time to which they are returnable, and
the process shall be served on the defendants at least eight"" days‘
before the session of said Court.

52. Sec. IX. From and after the first day of January next, the
aid City Council shall pay to the Judge of the Court of Cotn-'
mon Pleas, a salary, annually of one thousand dollars, in payments
of two hundred and fifty dollars each, immediately after each of the
sessions of the said Court, limited and appointed in this Act, and that
the Clerk of said Court shall pay over to the said City Council immediately after each session, all fees which the Judge of said Court
isnow allowed by law.

[The three remaining sections relate to the City Council.]

An Act to alter and amend the several Acts, in relation to the City of

Augusta, and the Court of Common Pleas in said City.-.—Assented to Dec. 22, 1837. Pam. 58.

53. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, so much of the Act passed on the 30th of December, 1836,‘
as authorized judgment to be rendered at the first term of said Court,
in cases in which no plea is filed, be, and the same is hereby repealed.

54. Sec. II. In all cases hereafter brought in said Court, the?
process shall be served on the defendant, at least nine days before:
the term to which the cases are returnable, and that all attachments
Nued, returnable to said Court, shall be issued, levied and the proceedings advertised, the same length of time before the session of
said Court, to which they may be returnable.

55. Sec. III. All laws now in force, regulating the issuing, 'ser-'
vice, return and subsequent proceedings, on summons of garnishmeats, in the Superior and Inferior Courts, shall be of force in said
Court, and that all summons of garnishment issued under process in,
or from said Court, served out of the City of Augusta, shall be served
at least twenty days before the session of the Superior or Inferior
Court of said County where the garnishee resides, and to either of
which Courts it shall be lawful to make the summons returnable.

An Act to amend the Rent Laws cy’ this State, so far as relates to the
City of Augusta ; to cor;/irm the purchase of the Bridges across the
Savannah River, at Augusta, by the City Council of Augusta, and
to legalize the scrip issued in payment for the same; to corg/irm to the
said City Council certain privileges relative to said Bridges; further
to define the qualifications and disabilities of members of said City
Council ; to khange the times of holding the summer and fall sessions
of the Court of Common Pleas of the City of Augusta; to authorize
the Clerk of the Cily Council of Au usta, in certain cases, to act as
Cleric qf the said Court if Common 1; ; and to exempt the Mayor

and members of the City Council cy’ Augusta, and the member: of the
Augusta Independent Fire Company. from the performance of certain
duties therein specified ; and for other purposes in said Act contained.
Assented to 23d Dec. 1840. Pam. ‘I63.

56. Sec. VI. And be it further enacted, That no member of the
City Council of Augusta shall hold any office, appointment or con<
tract under said City Council, (whereby he may derive any profit or
emolument from said City Council,)~or the office of Judge, Clerk or
Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas; nor shall any person holding or interested in any such oiiice, appointment or contract, be eligible as a member of the City Council, after the first Monday in
April next.

Sac. VII. [Changing time of holding Courts; repealed by Act of
1841, as to fall term, and finally and fully repealed by Act of 1842.
57. Sec. VIII. In case of avacancy occurring in the office of Cl
of the Court of Common Pleas of said City, the Clerk of the City
Council shall sign and issue any process, as Clerk of said Court, until such vacancy is filled in the manner prescribed by law.

[The remaining sections of this Act 1ocal.]

An Act to amend an Act, eye. and to amend the several laws regulat_ ing the Court of Common Pleas, in the City of Augusta, and to

change the time of holding the Court of Common Pleas of the
City of Augusta.—Assented to 27th Dec. 1842. Pam. 68.

Sec. I. Rlielative to City Court Savannah.]

58. Sec. 1. The session of the Court of Common Pleas of the
'City of Augusta, shall hereafter be held on the fourth Mondays of
February, May, August and November in each year, instead of the
tunes now lixed by law.

59. Sec. III. The tax or Court fee in cases hereafter brought in
said Court of Common Pleas of Augusta, shall be after the following rate, namely: in all cases when the sum claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars, one dollar; when the sum claimed exceeds
one hundred dollars, and does not exceed two himdred dollars, two
dollars; when the sum exceeds two hundred dollars, and does not
exceed three hundred and fifty dollars, three dollars; when the sum
exceeds three hundred and fifty dollars, four dollars; which tax or

fee shall be paid to the Clerk of said Court, before he shall be bound
to issue any process.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this
‘Act, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed.

an1‘.11. COURT or COMMON PI_.EAS AND OYER AND TERMINEB. I-‘oi:
THE CITY or SAVANNAH.’ = '

See. 1. Style; jurisdiction. Sec. 84. Juries; special Courts.

“ 2. Jury trial. “ 35. Judge's salary.

" 3. Books and papers. “ 86. Jurisdiction.

" 4. Proceedings in suits. “ 87. Mortgages.

“ 5. Answer and judgment. “ 38. Commencement of actim;
" 6. Bail. “ 39. Attachments. .
“ 7. Testimony. “ 40. Proceedings thereon.

“ 8. Set-oil’, arbitration, &c. “ 41. Bail.

" 9. Confession of judgment. “ 42. Declaration thereon.

" 10. Sheriffs sales. “ 43. do in Attachment.
“ ll. Enter'mg judgment. “ 44. Gsmishment.

“ 12 Clerk and Sheriff. “ 45. Officers-—partics.

“ 13. Recorder, prosecuting. “ 46. Adjournment.

" 14. Record and minutes. " 47. Testimony do bone use.

“ 15. Duty. of oiiicers. " 48. Judgment and execution.
" 16. Jurymen. ‘ " 49. Judge's salary.

" 17. Drawing Jurors. “ 50. Special sessions-—seamen.
“ 18. Oilicers’ oaths. “ 51. Cases under $30.

“ 19. Judge's oath. “ 52. Jurisdiction extended.

“ 20. Attorney's fees. “ 53. Sessions.

“ 21. Certiorari. “ 54. Commencement of suit.
“ 22. Records Mayor's Court. " 55. Jury trial.

" 23. Termsof Court. “ 56. Clerk's and Sheriff's fees.
“ 24 Constables’ duty. “ 57. Attorney's fees.

“ 25. Stay of execution. “ 58. Trial llrst term.

“ 26. Special Courts; seamen. “ 59. Appeals.

" 27. Summary notice; certiorari. “ 60. Special Jury.

" 28. Speedy trial. . “ 61. Sheriff's fees—civil cases.
“ 29. Imprisonment. “ 62. Criminal Cases.

“ 30. Arrest. “ 63. Depu .

" 31. Act of 1776; Mayor‘s power. “ 64. Speci Courts.

" 32. ‘Rial of seamen. ’‘ . Trial thereof.

65
“ 83. Clerk and Sheriff; attendance. “ 66. Proceedingstherein.

An Act for the organization of a Court of Common Pleas, and 0}
Oyer and Terminer, for the City of Savamrah, and for repealing the Civil Jurisdiction given by the Laws of this State to the
Mayor and Aldermen, or to the Mayor of said C_ity.—Approved
Dec. 18, 1819. Vol. III. 387.

1. Snc. I. There shall be organized in the City of Savannah, ‘on=

I the last Monday in October next, a Court of record to be styled the '

Court of Common Pleasxand Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, which said Court shall have cognizance of civil cases, in
assumpsit, debt, covenant, trover, and of actions on the case whenj
the damages or cause of action shall not exceed the sum of two hundred,'|' nor shall be less than thirty dollars, and the said Court ,shall
have criminal jurisdiction of all minor offenses committed within the
limits of the City of Savannah, and which do not subject offenders‘
to confinement in the Penitentiary.

2. Sec. II. The Judge of said Court shall be elected by the Legislature immediately after the passing of this Act, and shall hold‘

his office for the term of three years, unless removed therefrom by
the Governor, on the address of two-thirds of both houses of the
General Assembly for that purpose, and the said Judge shall have
power and authority to hear and determine all civil causes of which
the said Court has jurisdiction, and to give judgment and award
execution thereon: Provided always, that either party in any
such cause shall be entitled to a trial by Jury upon entering a
demand therefore in writing on the docket of the said Court before
the opening of the Court on the first day of the term to which the said
cause is returnable, [and upon giving security for the payment of the
eventual condemnation money and costs, as upon the entry of appeals under the Judicial Statute of this State.]""

3. Sec. III. The said Court is empowered to compel the production of books, papers and writings, in the possession of any party
'to a suit in said Court, containing evidence pertinent to the cause in
question, conformably to the Vlth section of the Judicial Statute of
this State.

4. Sec. IV. The process in civil suits in said Court shall be
conformable to the Vlllth section of the Judicial Statute of this
State, excepting that the process to all suits in said Court, shall be
annexed by the Clerk of the Court, and served by the Sheriff of the
same, tent days before the return thereof; and for conducting proJ-ceedings in said Court, the provisions contained hi the IXth section
of the Judicial Statute shall be in force to carry to trial any suit in
said Court, according to the mode prescribed in the second section of
this Act.

5. Sec. V. When any defendant shall have been served with process, he shall file his answer in writing in the terms of the Judicial Statute, on or before the opening of the Court at the term to which
the same is returnable; if the defendant shall fail to file his answer
in manner aforesaid, the Judge of the said Court shall note the default on the docket, and shall in such case, and in all cases whichane
not docketed for trial by aJury in terms of the proviso of the lira
section of this Act, proceed to give judgment and award execution
thereon at the same term, upon due proof of the plaintifff ’s claim; but
in all cases which are so docketed, an imparlance shall be allowed
until the next succeeding term.:[

6. Sec. VI. In all cases in said Court in which bail is required,
that the bail and proceedings thereon shall be conformable to the
laws of this State, or to such Statutes upon the same subject, as may
be hereafter enacted by the General Assembly§

7. -Sec. VII. The XIXth, XXth, XXIst, and XXIId sections of
the Judicial Statute|| of this State, shall be in force in the said Court
excepting that writs of subpoena shall .be issued by the Clerk of
said Court, and served by the Sheriff of the same, a City Constable, or some private person ; and that the provisions of the Act

passed the 16th December, 1811, to alter and amend the XXIIH

action of the Judiciary Law of this State, passed the 16th of February, 1799, shall likewise be of full force in said Court, excepting
that it shall not be necessary to give more than three days’ notice
of an intention to take testimony by commission, which commission it shall be the duty of the Clerk of said Court to issue upon

application therefore. t
8. Sec. VIII. The XXIVth, XXVth, XXVIIIth. XXIXth,

XXXth, XXXIst, and XXXIId sections of the Judicial Statute of

this State,’ shall be in full force in said Court, excepting that all

claims to property made under the provisions of the XXXIId section aforementioned, shall be returned by the Sheriff of the Cqurt to
the Clerk of the Superior Court of Chatham County, in ten days
after the institution of such claim, to be decided upon by aJury at
the ensuing term of the Superior Court of said County.

9. Sec. IX. No confession of Judgment shall’ be entered up
in said Court, unless the defendant resides in the City of Savannah, and unless the cause has been regularly sued out and docketed,
not until such cause is called in order by the Court for trial.

9 10. Sec. X. All sales of property taken under execution by the
Sheriffs of said Court, shall be made couformably to the laws of the
State regulating Sheritf ’s sales. .

11, Sec. XI. In all cases in which averdict shall be rendered in
said Court, the party in whose favor it may be, shall be allowed to
enter and sign judgment thereon, at any time Within three days after the adjournment of the Court, at the Clerk’s office, for the amount
of such verdict and all legal costs, and no execution shall issue on
such verdict until such judgment shall be entered by the party or his
attorney.

12. Sec. XII. The Clerk and Sheriff hitherto of the Mayor’s
Court of Savannah, shall be the Clerk and Sheriif of the Court created by this Act, but such Clerk and Sheriff shall continue to ’perform all the duties required of them by the Ordinances of the Mayor
and Aldermen of the City of Savannah, and the said Clerk and
Sherilf are hereby declared to be entitled to the same fees as are by
law allowed to the Clerks and Sherilfs of the Superior and Inferior

Courts of this States!’
13. Sec. XIII. The Recorder of the City of Savannah shall,

In the event of the absence of the Solicitor General of the District,
prosecute all delinquents for crimes and offenses cognizable by said
Court, and the said Recorder, in all criminal prosecutions conducted
by him, shallbe entitled to receive the same fees as by law are allowed to the Solicitors General of the State, reserving to the Solicitor
General of the district the right to conduct such prosecutions, and to
receive the same fees asallowed by law in the Superior Courts of

(hi State.
14. Sec. XIV. The Clerk of said Court shall copy into a book

J record to be provided by the Mayor and Aldermen of Savannah,
all the proceedings in all the civil cases in said Court, which entry

of record shall be made within twenty days after the determination
of any cause, and the Clerk shall be allowed ten cents for every
hundred words of recording such proceedings, to be taxed in the bill
of cost; and the said Clerk shall keep from day to day, regular minutes of the proceedings of said Court, which shall be signed by the
Judge.

15. Sue. XV. All the duties and liabilities attached to the

Clerks of the Superior and Interior Courts, and to the Sheriifs of
‘the Counties, are hereby attached to the Clerk and Sheriff of this
Court, and the Judge of said Court is empowered to exercise the
‘same authority over the Clerk and Sheriff, as is legally exercised by

the Judges of the Superior Courts over the Clerks or the Superior
Courts and over the Sheriffs of the Counties.
16. Sec. XVI. All persons residing in the City of Savannah,

‘and who are liable to serve as Jurors in the Superior Court, shall be

liable to serve as Jurors in this Court; and it is hereby declared to
be the duty of the said Court to conform to the laws in force in this
State, pointing out the mode of selecting, drawing and summoning
Jurors for the Superior Court; and the XLIVth section of the Judicial Statute is hereby declared to be in full force in said Court; and

the oath to be administered to all Juries in said Court upon the trial

of civil causes, shall be the same as is by law administered to the

Petit Jurors in the Superior Courts.

17. Sec. XVII. The Judge of the said Court shall, previous to
the adjournment of either of the terms of the same, draw, conformao
bly to the laws of this State, twenty-four persons to serve as an in.quest or Grand Jury for the said Court and City, and twenty-four

persons for the trial of all civil and criminal cases of which the said
Court has jurisdiction, but no inquest or Grand Jury for the said Court
shall consist of less than eighteen persons; though twelve persons of

any grand Jury may find a bill or make a presentment ; and it is

hereby declared, that the mode of proceeding and trial in all criminal
cases in said Court, shall be the same as is pursued in the Superior
Courts in this State ; and that the oath to be administered to Jurors
and witnesses upon the trial of criminal cases, shall be the ame at
is administered to Jurors and witnesses in criminal cases in the Sun
perior Courts.

18. Snc. XVIII. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court created
by this Act, shall respectively take the oath required by the Judicial
Statute of this State, to be taken by the Clerks of the Superior and
Inferior Courts, and by the Sheriffs of the Counties, excepting that
in the Clerk’s oath, the following words shall be substituted, (after
the words “ and other proceedings,’’)-—‘‘ of the Court of Common
Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,” and in the
Sheri1l’s oath the same style of the Court shall be inserted after the
words “as Sheriff,” and the said oaths the Judge of the said
Court or the Mayor of the City'of Savannah, is hereby empowered to
administer.

l9. Sec. XX, The salary to be allowed the Judge of the said
Gourt shall be thirteen hundred‘ dollars, to be paid quarterly by the
Treasurer of the City of Savannah, out of the funds of the corporation of  City ; and the said Judge before he enters upon the duties of his office, shall take the following oath or affirmation, either
before the Governor or before commissioners by him for that purpose
appointed, to wit : “ I do solemnly swear, or affirm, that I will administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the
poorand to the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge
and perform the duties incumbent upon me as Judge of the Court of
Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
according to the best of my abilities and understanding, and agreeably to the constitution of this State and the constitution of the United States—so help me God.” .

20. Sec. XXI. The attorney’s fee in each cause~brought insaid
Court, shall be one halff of the fee by law allowed upon cases commenced and tried in the Superior Courts, and upon all cases brought
in the said Court, there shall be assessed the sum of three dollars, to
be paid upon the institution of the same, to the Clerk of the Court,
who shall make quarterly returns of the fees so received by him, and
pay over the amount to the Treasurer of the City of Savannah, under
the penalty of five hundred dollars, to be enforced by attachment
against the Clerk as for a contempt.

21. Sec. XXII. When either party to a cause in said Court
shall take exceptions to any proceedings in a suit affecting the real
merits of the same, it shall be the duty of the said Judge, to cause
to be made and filed of record in said Court, a just and true statement of the facts relating thereto, and of all legal points arising therein, and the said party, after a full compliance with the law of the
State, regulating the granting of certiorari, may apply to the Judge
of the Eastern district for a writ of certiorari, who shall issue the
name if he shall deem the exceptions taken to be sufficient.

22. Sec. XXIII. All suits and other processes which have been
instituted or ordered in the Mayor’s Court of Savannah, and whiclii
shall remain undecided, and unexecuted on the last Monday in Oc-t
tober next, shall be transferred to the Court created by this Act; and‘
it shall be the duty of the Court to proceed to the determination and
trial of all such suits, conformably to the provisions of this Act ; and
the records of the said Mayor’s Court are hereby declared to be a;
partof the records of the Court created by this Act ; and the Clerk‘
of this Court shall, upon motion first made to the Court for that
purpose, issue execution upon all judgments which have been or
may be obtained in the said Mayor’s Court.

An Act to repeal the nineteenth sectzon of an Act, entitled “ an Act
for the organization of a Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and
Terminer for the City of Savannah ; andjbr repealing the civil
jurisdiction given by the lazgs of this State to the Mayor and Aldermen, or to the [Player of said City;’’ to prescribe the terrns
at which the said Court shall hereafter be held ; and to compel the

attendance at said terms of the Constables drawn by the Mayor and
Aldermen of said Cltg/.—Approved Nov. 30, 1821. Vol. IV. 205.

j 23. See. I. The nineteenth section of the said Act for the origanization of aCourt of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terrniner
for the City of Savannah, be, and the same is hereby repealed ; and
that there shall be hereafter the following terms of the said Court in
each year, to Wit : on the third Monday in October, on the second
Monday in December, on the fourth Monday in January, on the sec-‘nnd Monday in March, on the fourth Monday in April, on the second
Monday in June, on the second Monday in July* and that all suits,
writs, and processes.which have been instituted heretofore, and made
returnable to the terms of the C wnrt as they have been heretofore
held, and which after the passing of this Act shall remain undecided
and unexecuted, shall be acted upon at the terms of the said Court
hereafter to be held according to the provisions of this Act.

.24. Sec. II. Such persons as have been, or may hereafter be
drawn or chosen by the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Savannah as Constables for said City, shall be compelled to attend the

‘terms of said Court, to execute the orders and processes of said Court;
and on failure of such attendance, after having been required to do
so by the Sheriff of the said Court, that the Judge of said Court is
hereby authorized and empowered to proceed against any defaulter
by an attachment for contempt.

An Act to authorz'ze the Stay of Executiorzs to be issued on Judgments‘
obtained in the Court of Common Pleas and O3/er and T¢1'mine1'
for the C‘-ity of Saranmz/2, by Dtjeizdants, on entering Security
and l’a_I/nzc/at of Costs, for szlrty da_1,'s.—App1‘0Ved Dec. 19, 18:42.
Vol. IV. 210.

25. From and after the passing of this Act, it shall and may be
lawful for defendant or defendants, against whom judgments may be
obtained and entered in the Court of Common Pleas, and Oyer and
Terminer for the City of Savannah, upon the payment of the costs
of said judgments, and entering into good and sutiicient security before the Clerk of said Court, within four days after.-, the rendition and
entering of the judgment aforesaid, for the payment of the judgment,
interest, and all future costs to accrue thereon, shall be entitled to a
stay of execution or executions for sixty days; and if such party or
partics shall not pay the same agrr-able thereto, then and in such case
execution may issue against him or them, and their security or securities, witheut any other proceedings thereon.

Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act
are hereby, repealed.

An Ad to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Termiuer for theC4't~y of Savannah to hold special or
extraordinary Courlsfor the summary trial of causes therein enumerafed, and to empower the Mayor of the City of Savannah, also
to hold such special or e.-z°traordz'nary Courts, and to regulate Seaaen or Zlluriners, and to prevent them from being harbored or running in debt.""—Approved Dec. 26. 1831. Pam. 96.

Whereas, masters and commanders of vessels, trading to the City
of Savannah, are often'greatly distressed by the neglect or desertion of their seamen, which is in general occasioned by the practices
ofkecpers of taverns and tippling houses, and ill-disposed persons, to
the great detriment and hindrance of the trade of said City: And
whereas, the provincial Act of 1766,? is found to be inoperative for
the want of a Court of summary jurisdiction ; for remedy whereof,

26. See. I. Be ttpvzactcd, (Ye. That from and after the passing
of this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the Judge of the Court of
Common Pleas and Oyer audTerminer for the City of Savannah and
also for the Mayor of the City of Savannah, upon the petition made
to either of them by any ship master, supercargo, owner or consignee
of any vessel, or any articled seamen, who shall have any dispute or
ditference with any person touching any contract, agreement, sale,
promise, debt or demand whatsoever, or shall be charged with any
amault or assault and battery, or trespass to the person, not punishable with death or imprisonment in the Penitentiary, setting forth
[in] such petition the nature of his, her or their case, and at the same
time making oath that he, she or they cannot, without great inconvenience and damage to him, her, or them wait the determination of
such matter in difference, or the trial of such charge, by the ordinary
and usual course of proceeding in the Courts of this State; to order,
and the said Judge or the said Mayor, is hereby required and directed
to order and appoint a special or extraordinary Court, to be held
within forty-eight hours after the grant of such order for the trial of
any such cause, matter in difference, charge or trespass.

27. Sec. II. At the time and place which the said Judge or

Mayor shall appoint, the parties being duly notified by twelve hours’,
previous notice of such time and place, shall attend personally, or by

attorney, before the said Judge or Mayor, and the said Judge or Mayor, shall then hear the parties, and shall in a summary manner proceed to judge and determine such cause, and shall forthwith by the
usual process of said Court, execute the judgment of said Court in
such cause, unless exceptions to such judgment shall be taken by
either party on the pronouncing said judgment—-and if either party
shall so except to any such judgment, it shall be his duty forthwith
to‘ apply to the Judge of the Superior Court of the Eastern district for
a certiorari founded on such exception, which if allowed by the

Judge of said district within twenty-four hours after the rendition of
., such judgment, shall be a supersedeas thereof—and in case of the
absence of the Judge of said district, then time shall be allowed to
the party making such exception, until the return of the said Judge,
the said party giving good bond and security to the other party in
the sum of $200, conditioned to abide the final decision of the
cause. 28. Sec. III. The said Judge or Mayor shall at such special or
extraordinary Courts, have full power to try each cause in wt. :11
captains or commanders of vessels, or articled seamen are concerned

' as parties, in the most summary and speedy manner, andto compel
the attendance of witnesses by the most summary process that can
be devised, and that no more delays shall occur injthe trial of such
causes than such as are indispensable to the due administration of
'ustice.

;J 29. Sec. IV. And for the purpose of avoiding vexatious arrests

‘and fraudulent detention, of articled seamen, _bc it further enacted,
that it shall not be lawful for any keeper of a tavern or tippling
house, or any other person, when an articled seaman shall have been
committed to jail by his captain, owner or consignee, to lodge a detainer under the pretense of civil process founded on a debt-—but
that in such case, when an articled seaman [or seamen] shall have
been committed to jail by any captain, owner or consignee of a vessel,
it shall be the duty of the jailer to surrender such seaman upon the
requisition of such captain, owner or consignee so committing him,
notwithstanding any detainer which may or shall have been lodged
against such seaman founded on ClVll process.

30. Sec. V. It shall not be lawful for any Sheriff, Constable or

‘other officer, to arrest any articled seaman on civil process within

-twenty-four hours next immediately before the time which shall
have been designated by advertisement for the sailing of such vessel,
or after the lapse of such time, if such vessel shall have been detained
beyond that time by adverse winds or other causes—-and in case of
any such arrest within such time, the said Judge or Mayor shall
have full power and authority to discharge such seaman instantly on
the application of the captain, owner, or consignee, showing that such
arrest was made after the time in this section prohibited, and further,
that the officer making such arrest shall be punishable by indictment
in the said Court, and on conviction, shall be sentenced by the said
Court to a fine not exceeding $100.

31. Sec. VI. The Provincial Act of Assembly, entitled “an Act
to punish seamen or mariners neglecting or dcserting their duty on
board their respective ships or vessels, and for preventing seamen
and mariners from being harbored or running in debt,” passed 6th
March, 1766, shall be, and is hereby declared to be, in full force, and
that the said Judge or the said Mayor shall in the summary manner
aforesaid, exercise all the powers, jurisdiction and authority by that
Act vested in Justices of the Peace, and that the said Judge or Mayor shall be and hereby is fully empowered to carry into effect the
provisions of that Act as fully and to_ all intents and purposes, as

Justices of the Peace could have done immediately after the passage
of said Acts.

32. Sec. VII. If any articled seaman shall after the passage of
this Act, be arrested under civil or criminal process, issued by any
Justice of the Peace or Justice of the Inferior Court, the captain,
owner or consignee of the vessel, to which such seaman shall be
under artis-.les at the time of such arrest, shall be entitled to apply to
the stid Judge or Mayor for a summary hearing and determination
of such cause of arrest in the manner in the first and second sections
in this Act prescribed, and the said Judge or Mayor shall have full
power and authority to take jurisdiction and cognisance of such
cause, and finally to decide the same ; and it shall be the duty of
the officer making such arrest, and of the Justice from whom the
process emanated, on the requisition of the said Judge or Mayor, to
transmit to the said Judge or Mayor all documents and papers in relation thereto.

33. Sec. VIII. The Sheriff and Clerk of the said Court of Com-;
mon Pleas, and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, shall:
in person or by deputy attend such special or extraordinary Courts,‘
and shall be entitled to the same fees that by law they are now entitled in ordinary cases; and that it shall be the duty of the Clerk of
said Court to require of the plaintifffs in such cause the sum of three‘
dollars, which shall be paid to him for the use of said City, to be
taxed in the bill of costs against the losing party.

An Act to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminer <y' the City of Savannah, and the hamlets
thereof, to draw Juries for the summary trial of such causes as by
an Act passed on the 26th day of December, 1831, the said Judge
is authorized to hold special or extraordinary C'ourts.—Approved
Dec. 21, 1833. Pam. 56.

34. It shall be the duty of the Judge of the Court of Common‘
Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer of the City of Savannah, in all caus-I
es for the summary trials of which he has, by an Act passed on the‘
26th day of December, 1831, been authorized to hold special and
extraordinary Courts, to draw the necessary Jury or Juries as authorized by the 16th section of the Act of 18th December, 1819, creating said Court, forthwith, or within twenty-four hours after the petition has been made, upon which by said Act the said Judge is required to hold special or extraordinary Courts.
Sec. II. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act, are

hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act for the organization of a
Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer for the City

of ~»S_'avannah, and for repealing the civil jurisdiction given by the

laws of this State to the Mayor and Aldermen or to the Mayor of
said City, passed December 18th, 1819.——Approved Dec. 19, 1834.
Pam. 91.

35. From and after the passing of this Act, the salary to be allowed the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and‘
Terminer for the City of Savannah shall be $1,000,‘ to be paid
quarterly to the said Judge out of the funds of the corporation of
said City.

Sec. II. [Repeals so much of the 19th section of the Act of December 18, 1819, as requires parties to give security to entitle
them to a Jury trial. See also, see. 55.]

All laws or parts of laws militating against this law are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act jbr the organization of a
Court of Common Pleas, and of0yer and Terminer for the City qf’
Savannah, and for repealing the civil jurisdiction given by the laws
of this State, to the lllayor and Aldermen, or to the lllayor of said
City, passed December 18, 1819 ; and to add to, regulate, increase and

define the civil jurisdiction and powers of said Court, and to regulate
the salary of the Judge thereof.-—Assented to 26th December, 1837.
Pam. S3.

36. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the first day of January next, the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Termmer,
for the City of Savannah, shall have jurisdiction of all cases wherethe debt (exclusive of interest,) or damages claimed, shall be above
the jurisdiction of a Justices’ Court, and shall not exceed the S1111]
of two hundred dollars; and of all claim cases, where personal property is levied on, under execution from said Court.

37. Sec. II. All mortgages upon personal property, for an amount
within the jurisdiction of said Court, may be foreclosed by the Judge
of the same, (in the same way or manner as in the Superior or Inferior Courts,) and all subsequent proceedings thereon, shall be in
said Court, and such as are prescribed by the laws now in force.

38. Sec. III. All suits in said Court shall be commenced at least ten
days before the time to which they are returnable, and the process
shall be served on the defendants, at least eight days before the ses'sion of said Court.1

39. Sec. IV. The Judge of the said Court, or any Alderman of
said City, or any Justice of the Peace, shall have full power and
authority to issue attachments which shall be returnable to said _
Court, and within the jurisdictional amount of the same: Provided,
,however, that the said attachments shall be issued at least thirty days
before the term to which they are made returnable, and shall be tested in the name of the Judge, Alderman or Justice issuing the same,

and be signed by said_Judge, Alderman or Justice granting the same :
.-ind provided also, that no judgment shall be rendered on such attachment, until the term next after that to which it is made returnable.

40. Sec. V. Such attachments shall be directed to the Sheriff
of mid Court, and to .all and singular the Constables of the City of
Savannah, and that all prior and subsequent proceedings relative to
said attachments, not herein expressly mentioned or specified, shall
be governed by the laws of the State of Georgia, in relation to attachments, due regard being had to the nature of the different trihlmals. '

4L Sac. VI. Whenever bail shall be required in any case about
to be instituted in said Court, it shall be lawful and sufficient to
serve the defendant with a process and copy of the affidavit, as in
cases of bail pending the action, and whenever such process, with a
copy of the affidavit annexed, and a copy or copies of such process
and affidavit shall be placed in the hands of the Sheriff of said
Court, it shall be the duty of said Sheriff to arrest the defendant or,
defendants, to serve him, her or them, with a copy or copies of said‘
process and affidavit, and to deal with him, her, or them, as is now
required by the laws of force in this State, regulating cases where
bail is required, and the subsequent proceedings shall be as in other
cases.

A42. Sec. VII. In all bail cases issued under the provisions of this:

Act, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be compelled to file his, her or}
their declaration, at least eight* days before the term to which said‘
process is returnable, and on failure to do so, he, she or they shall
lose a term, and if he, she or they fail to file his, her or their decla-1
ration, before the first dayof the term to which the process is re-i
turnable, the Court shall, on motion, enter judgment of non-suit.

43. Sec. VIII. In all cases of attachments returnable to saidi
Court, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff or plaintifffs to file’
his, her, or their declaration, at any time before the opening of the
term to which such attachments are returnable, and on failure to do
so by the opening of said term, the Court shall, on motion,
dismiss the attachment.

44. Sec. IX. Said Court shall have jurisdiction in all cases int
garnishment,1' as well when the debt of the garnishee to the defendant shall exceed, as when it shall fall short, of the jurisdictional
amount of said Court, and that said Court shall also have jurisdic-J
tion of all suits brought on bail or attachment, claim or other obli-E
gations, or bonds given by parties to any proceedings issued from§
or had in said Court, notwithstanding that the penalty of said bonds I
shall or may exceed the jurisdiction of said Court, (in consequence
of having been given in double the sum sworn to, attached, or of
the execution issued, or property levied on :) .Provided, that the I
original cause of action upon which said bonds or other obligations
were had and taken, did not exceed the jurisdiction of said Court.

45. Sec. X. The Sheriff and Clerk of said Court may sue and
be sued in said Court, and when the Clerk of the same shall be defendant in any suit or action, it shall be the duty of said Clerk
(if required) to copy the petition upon which said suit is founded,
as in other cases, and annex a process thereto, which shall be signed
by the Judge of said Court, and shall be served in the same manner
as in other cases, and it shall also be the duty of the Clerk aforesaid,
(if réquired,) to make out final process in any case in which he may
be interested, as in other cases, which shall be signed by the Judge
raforesaid, and executed as in other cases; and when the Sheriff of
the Court aforesaid, shall be plaintifff or defendant, in any suit brought
before the Court aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for the Marshal of the City of Savannah, or any one of the City Constables, to
execute all lawful process for or against said Sheriff, and all such
process shall be directed to the Marshal of the City of Savannah,
and all and singular the Constables of said City, and the proceedings thereon shall be as in other cases.

46. Sec. XI. In the absence of the Judge of the said Court by
iindisposition or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the Clerk, or Sher'itf of the same, to open and adjourn said Court, to such day as the
Judge may, in writing, direct.

47. Sec. XII. The Judge of the said Court, shall have power
to take testimony a’e bene esse, in all cases pending in the same, according to the laws of the State of Georgia in force, due regard being had to the nature of the different tribunals.

48. Sec. XIII. All judgments obtained in said Court shall be a
lien on all property belonging to the defendant throughout the State,
and all executions shall be directed to the Sheriff of the Court of
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
and all and singular the Sheriff's of the State of Georgia, and may be
levied on all property throughout the said State: Provided, that the
Sheriff of said Court shall levy all executions on property within the

limits of the said City.

49. Sec. XIV. From and after the expiration of the present term
of office of the Judge of said Court, the salary thereof shall be fixed
at the sum of six hundred dollars per annum. Sac. XV. All laws or parts of laws militating against this Act
be and the same are hereby repealed. An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to authorize the Judge of the
Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City qf
Savannah, to hold special or extraordinary Courts for the summary
trial of causes therein enumerated, and to empower the Mayor of
the City of Savannah also, to hold such special or extraordinary
Courts, and to regulate seamen and mariners, and to prerent them

from being harbored or running in debt.—Assented to Dec. 23,
1837'. Pam. 77.‘

Whereas, no provision is made in the above-recited Act, for cases

in which ship-masters, super-cargoes, owners or consignees of vessels, or articled seamen may be plaintifffs, or may prosecute for assault, or assault and battery, or trespass to the person; and also in
cases of dispute or difference touching contracts, agreements, sale,
promise or debt, where the sum does not exceed thirty dollars.

50. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of I
this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the Judge of the Court of 1
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,
and also for the Mayor of the City of Savannah, upon the petition
made to either of them, by any ship-master, supercargo, owner or
consignee, of any vessel, or any articled seaman, that he, she or
they are plaintifffs, or have charged any person with an assault, or
assault and battery, or trespass to the person, not punishable with
death or imprisonment in the Penitentiary, to hold special or extraordinary Courts for the summary trial of such causes, under the same
restrictions, and as provided by the above recited Act, and the Act
arnendatory of the same, passed the 21st day of Dec. 1833.

51. Sec. II. All civil actions, which, by the above recited Act,~
the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminerl
fo 1-the City of Savannah, or the Mayor of said City, are authorized to
try and determine, the amount of which shall not exceed thirty dollars, may be tried by any Justice of the Peace, for that part of the
County of Chatham, embraced within the corporate limits of the City
of Savannah, under the same restrictions as to petition,notice, affidavit, and [as] set forth in the first section of the said recited Act, and that
all and every process issued by any Justice, by authority of this Act
shall be served by any lawful Constable, of the above recited part of
the County of Chatham, and shall be determined by a Jury of five,
to be drawn instanter from the Jury box of said Magistrate, which
said Jury shall be summoned to appear for the trial of said action or
actions, within forty-eight hours from the -time of issuing the process
or processes; and further, that the costs shall be the same, as in other cases of Jury trials, in Magistrate’s Courts.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating this Act he and
the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter and amend the several Acts relating to the Court of
Common Pleas, and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savann.ah.—Assented to Dec. 7, 1841. Pam. 76.

52. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the first day of
January next, the Court of Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, shall have jurisdiction in all civil cases,
(except such as involve title to real estate, or which may fall within
a Magistrate’s jurisdiction) where the sum claimed, or the demands
of the plaintifff should not exceed the sum of three hundred dollars
exclusive of interest, and that the said Court shall have jurisdiction
to the same extent in cases of attachments.

53. Sec. II. From and after the first day of January next, the

sessions of said Court shall be quarterly, namely, on the first Monday
of February, May, August, and November.‘

54. Sec. III. All suits in said Court shall be commenced at least
fourteen days before the time to which they are returnable; and the

._proccss shall be served on the defendants at least twelve days before
the session of the Court: Provided herein, that the provisions of this
section shall not extend to cases of attachment, which shall be issued
in the manner now prescribed by law.

. 55. Sec. IV. Either party in any cause before said Court, shall
be entitled to a trial by Jury upon entering a demand therefore in
writing, upon the docket of said Court, before the opening of the Court
on or before the first day of the term to which the said cause is re
tumable, without the payment of costs, or giving bond and security
therefore. ,

x 56. Sec. V. The Clerk and Sheriff of the Court aforesaid, shall

_have and receive but two-thirds of the fees heretofore allowed to each
respectively by law, in all civil cases, to be charged as costs against
the suitors in said Courtxf

57. Sec. VI. Attorneys practising in said Court, shall receive as
a tax fee, in all suits brought before said Court, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents};

Sac. VII. All laws and parts of laws milita-ting against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act entitled an Act to alter and amend the several Acts relating to the Court of Common Pleas and of Oycr
and Terminer of the City of Savannah, assented to 7th December, 1841 ; and to amend the several laws regulating the Court df

Commom Pleas in the City of Augusta, and to change the time
' of holding the Court of Common Pleas in the City of Augusta.
Assented to Dec. 27, 1842. Pam. 68.

Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this
Act, the third quarterly session of the Court of Common Pleas and
of Oycr and Terminer, for the City of Savannah, shall be held on
the first Monday in July, instead of the first Monday in August, as
prescribed in said Act.

Secs. II. and III. [City Court of Augusta, secs. 58, 59.]

An Act to alter and amend the'several Acts relating to the Court of
Common Pleas and of Oycr and Tcrminer for the City of Savannah.—Assented to Dec. 25, 1843. Pam. 38.

58. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, where either party in any case before the Courts of Com‘mon Pleas and of Oyer and Terrniner for the City of Savannah, shall

demand a Jury trial, the said cause shall be tried at the term of the
Court to which it is returnable: Provided, that if either of the parties should be unprepared for the trial of such cause, the Court may
continue the same, under the same rules and regulations by which c
suits are now continued. 59. Sac. II. In case either party shall be dissatisfied with the ver- A
dict of the Jury, then and in all such cases, either party may, within“
four days after the adjournment of the Court in which such verdict
was obtained, enter an appeal in the Clerk’s office of such Court as
matter of right: Provided, the person or persons so appealing, shall, 0
previous to obtaining such appeal, pay all costs which may have arisen 3
on the former trial, and give security for the eventual condemnation:
money, except executors and administrators, who shall not be liable
to give such security. If on hearing such appeal, it shall appear top
the Jury that the appeal was frivolous, and intended for delay only,i
they shall assess damages to the party aggrieved by such delay, not
exceeding twenty-five per cent. on the principal sum which they
shall find due, and such damages as shall be assessed, shall be specially noted in the verdict of such Jurors, and no person shall be al-\
lowed to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entered, but by the ''
consent of the parties.

60. SEC. III. In all cases where an appeal shall have thus been:
entered, the cause shall be tried‘ at the next term of the Court of c
Common Pleas and of Oyer and Terminer of the City of Savannah
(unless good cause be shown for a continuance to the Court) by a
special Jury, who shall be taken from the Grand Jury list of the
said ‘Court, and struck _in_the_ presence of the Court in the following
manner; The Clerk shall produce a list of the Grand Jurors presentzandl
there impanneled, from which the parties plaintifff and defendant, or‘
their attorney, may strike out one alternately, until there shall be but
twelve Jurors left, who shall forthwith be impanneled and sworn as
special Jurors to try theappeal cause; and in all cases the appellants:
shall strike first, and in case of refusal in either to strike such special;
Jurors, after due notice given for the purpose, and proof thereof, the;
Judge before whom such notice igiven for such special Jury to be‘
impanneled, shall in behalf of such absent party, or his attorney,
proceed in the same way and manner as if the party absent or refusing had been present or consented to the same.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be, and the same are hereby repealed. '

An Act to repeal an Act to alter and amend the several Acts relating
to the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the
City of Savannah, so far as relates to the Sherif of said Court
and to allow said Sherif certain fees which are not provided for by
law, and to increase his fees in certain cases, and to allow him to
appoint special deputy Sherzfs in certain cases.—Approved Dec.
18, 1847. Pam. 281.

61. Sac. L Be it enacted, That so much of the fifth section of the

above recited Act as relates to the reduction of the Sheriff ’s fees of
the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of
Savannah, be and the same is hereby repealed; and that the said
Sheriff shall be allowed the following fees, viz: For summoning or
attending on a Jury to try a debtor for fraud under the honest debtor’s
Act, two dollars; for receiving and detaining into his custody any
person or persons given up to him by any security or securities in or
out of Court, one dollar and eighty-seven cents; and the said Sheriff shall not be compelled or liable to receive any person or persons
so surrendered unless the fee be paid him by the security or securities at the time of surrender; and for his attendance on the special or
Petit Jury, and for each verdict rendered, one dollar; for the service

of a rule or order of Court, one dollar.

62. Sec. II. The Sheriff of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, shall be allowed the
following fees in criminal cases at special or extraordinary Courts of
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah,

and at regular terms of said Court.

srscur. on EXTRAORDINARY coUn'rs.
For attendance on Judge to draw Jury,............ . ...... .....$l 00

For service, petition, order, &.c. upon each party,.  . . . . .. . .....l N
For summoning the Grand and Petit Juries, and attendance for each

0188  §etded,eooooooooooooooooooooooooooogenius!m
For each subpoena served,....................... . . . . ......... 62
For attendanceoneachcasetried,.........;.. . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . ..l 00
Forbringingeachpersonfromjail,..............................l 25
For carrying sentence of Court into execution,..... ......... . . . . ..l 25
Forestreatingabond,........................................ 50
For servingan attachmentor bench warrant,....................2 60

REGULAR TERMS OF COURT.

For summoning the Grand and Petit Jurors for each case tried or
Settledrnosooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocooosoococo]. 87}

Foreachsubpcsnaserved,............................,........ @
Forbringingeachperson fromjail,.............................l %
For attendanceoneach case tried,...........................l M
For carrying sentenceofCourtinto execution....................l 00
Forestreatingaboud,........................................ 50
For servinganattachmentor bench warrant,........'............2 50

63. Sec. III. And be itfurtlter enacted by the authority aforesaid, When it so happens that the Sheriff levies on any property
where it is actually necessary for him to have the same guarded,
it shall be lawful for him to appoint a special deputy Sherid‘ forssid
purpose, who shall take an oath before he enters upon his duty that
he will well and truly perform the duties assigned him by the Sheriff, and if any person or persons shall resist, oppose or assault mid
special deputy Sheriff in the discharge of his duty, he, she, or they
on conviction shall be fined or imprisoned at the discretion of the
Court; and in all cases when the Sheriff requires assistance, it shall

lgillaivéful for the Judge to allow a reasonable compensation to mid
e .

Sec. IV. And be it further enacted by the authority aforesiad,
That all laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, he and

the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize the Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and
Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, to hold special or
adraordinary Courts for the summary trials of causes therein
enumerated, and to amend an Act entitled an Act to authorize the
Judge of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer
for the City of Savannah, to hold special or extraordinary Court:

for the summary trial of causes therein enumerated, and to empowerthe Mayor of the City of Savannah also to hold such special
or extraordinary Courts, and to regulate seamen or mariners, and

to prevent them from being harbored or running in debt, passed
December 26, l831.""—Approved Dec. 27, 1847. Pam. 91.

Whereas, the trade and commerce of the City of Savannah is injured, and masters and commanders of vessels trading to said City
are greatly distressed by the forcibly taking away, abducting, enticing or harboring the seamen of said vessels, and whereas the evildisposed persons who commit such acts frequently escape punishment by the absence of witnesses, for want of a summary jurisdiction to try said otl'enders—for remedy whereof,

64. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, it shall and may be lawful for the Judge of the Court of
Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City of Savannah, in
all cases where any person or persons shall be charged and prosecuted
for the offense of abducting, entertaining, retaining or harboring any
articled seamen,f upon application to said Judge by the prosecutor
in such case, by petition on oath stating that he or she, or the witnesses necessary in carrying on said prosecution cannot, without
great inconvenience and damage to him, her or them, wait the trial
of such charge or prosecution by the ordinary and usual course of
proceedings in the Courts of the State, to order, and the said Judge
is hereby directed and required to order and appoint a special or extraordinory Court to be held within forty-eight hours after the grant
of such order, for the trial of any such cause, charge or prosecution.

65. S1-:c. II. The said Juuge shall, at such special or extraordinary Courts, proceed to try each cause according to the provisions of,
and in the manner pointed out by the various sections of the Act of
which this is amendatory, passed 26th December, 1831, and of any
other Acts which may have been passed amendatory thereof. ’

66. Sec. III. All the provisions of the aforesaid amended Act
of the 26th December, 1831, regulating the proceedings of such;
special and extraordinary Courts, shall be applicable to trials under
this Act.

An Act to amend and declare the z'ntent2'on of an Act entitled an
Act to alter and amend the several Judiciary Acts now in force in

this State, so jar as relates to Justices’ Courts, approved Decentber 14th, 1811.*—Approved Feb. 23, 1850. Pam. 274.

Whereas, it is by the first section of said Act provided that no Justice of the Inferior Court, Clerk, Sheriff, or practising attorney, being a Justice of the Peace, shall try any warrant and give judgment
thereon; and whereas it has been supposed by some that the Clerk
of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and Terminer for the City
of Savannah is included in the provision of said Act; for remedy
whereof,

67. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas and Oyer and
Terminer tor the City of Savannah, be and he is hereby Wholly exempted from the disabilities in the above recited provision of the
said Act contained.

All laws parts and of laws militating against this Act, be and the
same are hereby repealed.

i

ART. III. THE MAYOR'S COURT OF DARIEN.

Sec. 1. Power of Mayor and Aldermen. Sec. 5. Sale of land and negrocs.
“ 2. Court, terms, appeals. ' -“ 6. Imprisonment of debtors, lac.
“ 3. Bail. Juries, “ 7. Jurisdiction.
“ 4. Rule of Government.

An Act to Incorporate the Town of Darz'en'.—Approved Dec. 12,
1816. Vol. III. 1011.

,1 See. I. II. and III. [Direct the appointment of City officers and
organize the Police.]

1. SEC. IV. -The Intendant and members of the said Council,
shall each of them have full power and authority to keep peace and
good order within the said Town, to issue warrants, and cause all
offenders to be brought before them, and on examination, either to
release, admit to bail, if the offense be bailable, or commit to the custodyof the Sheriff of the County of McIntosh, except in cases here‘after provided for, whose duty it shall be to receive the same, and
keep in safe custody until discharged by due course of law; and the
said Intendant and every of the members of the said Council, for the
time being, shall be vested with all the powers and authorities that
Justices of the Peace are vested by the laws of this State, and shall
‘exercise the same, in every part of the said town, forthe preservation
of the peace and good order thereof.

2. Sec. V. It shall and may be lawful for the said Intendant, or
in his absence, any three of the Council, and they are hereby empowered at any time after the passing of this Act, to hold Courts oncein

--v
C

every month throughout each year, to appoint such officers as they

may think necessary, to settle and allow said officers reasonable fees,

and to have jurisdiction of, and to hear and determine all civil causes
not involving the right or title to any land or real estate, so the demand
in each suit does not exceed the sum of fifty dollars,‘ and to give
judgment and award execution therein according to law—Prom'ded,
that if any party to a suit, shall feel him, her, or themselves aggrieved

by the decision of the said Court, it shall and may be lawful for such

party to enter an appeal within three days after such trial, first paying all costs which may have accrued on such trial, and giving suf'ficient security to abide and perform the sentence of the Court at the
‘trial of the appeal; and all appeals from the decision of the said
"Court, shall be tried at the succeeding Court day, unless good excuse
isgiven for continuing longer such trial; which trial shall be by a
Jury of seven men, whose verdict shall be final—Provz'ded, such
‘continuance shall not exceed three terms.

3. Size. VI. The said Intendant and Council shall have the
like power and authority to hold to bail for debts within their jurisdiction, under like restrictions as pointed out for the Superior and Inferior Courts; and shall have power to draw and impannel Jurors,

for the trial of appeals, who shall be resident within their jurisdiction,
and shall be qualified and liable to serve as Jurors, to cause them to
be summoned at least five days before the said Court, and to fine
them for non-attendance or other misconduct, in such manner as
they may think proper; and shall have power to award execution
for such fines, and cause the goods of the persons so incurring such
fines, to be sold by virtue thereof: Provided, such fine shall not ex'ceed ten dollars.

'4. Size. VII, The said Intendant and Council shall, in all judi‘cial proceedings, have reference to, and be governed by the laws in
‘force in this State, for regulating the judicial proceedings thereof;
and the said Court of Intendant and Council thereof, is declared to
be a Court of record, and any persons necessarily going to, being at
or returning therefrom, shall be free from arrest on any civil suit.’r

5. Sec. VIII. The Town Marshal shall have the power of selling
real estate in said Town under execution, issued by the Intendant
and Council: Provided, all sales made by him of real estate or negroes, shallbe on the first Tuesday in each month, and advertised at
"least thirty days.

See. IX. and X. [Relates to work on the streets and commons;

*6. Sec. XI. The Intendant and Council shall have power an
authority to confine all insolvent debtors within their jurisdiction, as
Well "as all offenders against the peace and good order of the State,

in the jail of Darien, until such time as the County shall build a jail

‘at the Court house.

An Act to make the Town of Darien a City, and to amend the foregoing Act.—Approved Dec. 18, 1818. Vol; III. 1014.

Sec. 1. and II. [Changes the style of the Town to that of "City,"
and direct the election of a Mayor and Aldermen in the place of
Intendant and Council.]

7. Sec. Ill. The jurisdiction of the Mayor's Court of the City
of Darien shall be increased to one hundred dollars; and in holding

.the Mayor’s Court for the trial of civil causes, the Mayor shall pre,side, and he shall be allowed the same fees as are allowed to the
Mayor of Savannah on sums of like amount ; and any person dissattisfied with the decision of the Mayor, may appeal to a Jury, in the
manner now provided for in the Intendant and Council’s Court of
the Town of Darien ; and the same proceedings shall be had on all
such appeals; and it shall be lawful for the City Marshal to advertise his sales in any gazette in the City of Darien.

ART. IV. THE POLICE COURT OF THE CITY OF SAVANNAH.

Bee. 1. Jurisdiction. | Sec. 2. Oiicers and Fees.

An Act amcndatory of and in addition to the various ‘Acts heretofore
passed in reference to the City Q/'Savannah.—Approved Dec. 8,

1849. Pam. 83.

; 1. Sac. I. Be it enacted, That the Police Court of the City of
Savannah be, and the same is hereby established, and declared a
Court of Record; that the Mayor or acting Mayor of said City be,
and he is hereby authorized to preside in said Court, and to hold sessions thereof as often as to him may appear to be necessary; that

.said Court shall have cognizance in the first instance of all offenses
against the laws of the State touching said City, including as well
this law and the laws and ordinances hereafter to be enacted and ordained, as those which are now of force, with power to inflict the
punishments by hne and imprisonment, prescribed by the existing
laws and ordinances or which may be fixed by laws and ordinances
hereafter to be enacted or ordained, and to enforce the same by execution or mittimus, directed to the Marshal of said City, or any Lawful Constable thereof, and to the Jailer of Chatham County, when
necessary; and that said Court shall have power to commit to the
common jail of Chatham County any and all person and persons who
shall disturb said Court during its sittings or who shall in any other
manner be in contempt of its lawful authority: Provided, nevertheless, that an appeal may be taken from any judgment or decision
of said Court (except a commitment for contempt) to the Mayor
and Aldermen of the City of Savannah and the hamlets thereof, in
Common Council assembled, all costs being first paid and bond givento abide the decision of the said Common Council.

2. Sac. II. The Clerk of the Council of the City of Savannah,

the Marshal of said City, and the Constables of said City, be and
they are hereby constituted officers of the Police Court of said City,
and that they be, and they are hereby authorized to demand and receive for services rendered or duties performed in said Court, such
fees and costs for themselves, to be collected out of the defendants,
as may be established by any present or future ordinance of said
City.

[The remaining sections of this Act, local.]

Sac. X. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act
he and the’ same are hereby repealed.

[Statutes omitted as repealed Act of 1832, .(City Court of » Columbus,) Pam. 62. Of 1833, (City Court of Macon,) Pam. 57'; 1834,
Pam. 97.]

J USTICES OF THE PEACE.‘

Sec. 1. Imne of attachments. Sec. 27. Settlement~costs.

“ 2. Shall not try trespass. “ 28. Oilicers—parties.

“ 3, Book of entries. “ 29. Contempt of Court.

“ 4. Delivery to successors. “ 30: Claim by Agent, &o.

“ 5. ‘Jurisdiction and proceedings. “ 31. Control by surety.

" 6. Appeals—-warrants—service. “ 32. Itinerant persons.

" 7. Co-obligor—non-resident. “ 33. Deposit of costs.

“ 8. Attachment and garnishment. “ 34. Practice to be uniform.

“ 9. Evidence—set-ofl'—-claims. “ 35. Prescribed rule.

" 10. Bail. “ 36. Extent of jurisdiction.

“ 1 1. Witnesses—interrogatories. “ 37. Rule vs. Justices.

" 12. Juries, drawing, &c. “ 38. Rule vs..Constables.

“ 13. Oath of Jury. “ 39. Acc’ts proven out of the County.
“ 14. Costs in criminal cases. “ 40. Constables’ receipts.

“ 15. Denial of notes, bonds, &c. “ 41. Costs on certiorari.

" 16. Removal of defendant. “ 42. Execution for.

" 17. Ten days’ residence. , “ 43. Rules vs. Justices.

" 18. No Justice, or Justice a party. “ 44. Service on co-obligors.

" 19. Indictment for mal-practice. “ 45. Service of summons, 9 dayl.

" 20. Control by surety. “ 46. Princi al first sued, 81.0. " 21. Sales—notice—hours. " 47. Dcfen ant pointing out slaves, Ito.
“ 22. Real estate and negrocs. “ 48. Advertisement of sales.

" 23. Lien of Judgments. “ (9. Suit on several notes.

" 24. Constable-—extra pay. " 50. Set-off—judgment for overplus.
" 25. Levies by ; misconduct. “ 51. Over $30 credit.

“ 26. Pegs of Bailiifs and Justice of the " 52, Proof of open account.
eace.

An Act for the appointment of County 0jicers.—Approved Feb. 16.
1799. Vol. I. 201.

Sec. V. [See County Oflicers.]
r 1. Sue. LXXI. And the said Justices respectively may, and are
Ihereby fully authorized and empowered, to issue attachments return’able to the Superior or Inferior Courts, under like circumstances, and
in like manner as the Judges or Justices of the said Courts are empowered to do.
Judiciary Act of 1799. Vol. I. 292.

1 2. Sac. LXI. No Justice of the Peace shall sustain or try any
satisfaction in damages for any trespass on the person or property of
such plaintifff.

An Act to compel the Justices of the Peace in this State, to lreep a _/lllf
and regular Book of Eutry—Approved Dec. 13, 1809. Vol II.

572.

_ 3. See. I. From and after the first day of March next, it shall
be the duty of each Justice of the Peace in this State, to keep a fair
and legible book of entry of all civil proceedings had before him,

for the recovery of debts, &.c.
4. Sec. ll. In all cases where any Justice of the Peace in this

State, shall resign or remove out of the limits of the district forwhich he shall have been appointed, it shall be the duty of such
Justice to deliver the said book, or a fair copy thereof, to his succes.-.
sor in office, within sixty days after he may be commissioned, or
deposit the same with the Clerk of the Inferior Court.

Act of 1810. Vol. 11. 620.

Sec. II. [Juries on claims “ to take a like oath” with Juries on
appeals. Balance of this Act superseded.]

An Act to alter and amend the several Judiciary Acts new in force
in this State, so far as relates to Justices’ Courts.—Approved Dec.

14, 1311. Vol. 111. 368.

Whereas, the said Acts are not found to answer the purposes for

which they were intended; ~
5. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passing 0

this Act, the Justices of the Peace in the respective company districts,
or any one or more of them, shall have authority and jurisdiction to

hear and determine all suits on any liquidated demand or account,
for any sums of money not exceeding thirty dollars,"" by summons

or warrant: Provided, that no Justice of the Inferior Court, Clerk,*
Sheriff, or practising Attorney, being a Justice of the Peace, shall
tryany warrant, or give judgment thereupon in any civil case whatsoever; and the said Justices are hereby authorized and empowered
to give judgment and award execution thereon; Provided nevertheless, that either party being dissatisfied, shall be allowed an appeal,
on payment of costs and giving security for the eventual c )ndemnation money within three days after judgment ;1' or the party cast
may stay the levy of execution forty days, on payment of cost, and
giving security within four days after judgment ; but no stay of execution shall be allowed after an appeal trial, for a longer time than
twenty days ; in which case, the security on the appeal, together
with the security for the stay of execution, shall be liable for the
debt. and cost. And it shall be lawful for any person or persons,
who has or have in his, her, or their hands any bond, note, or account, which was given for any sum exceeding thirty dollars, and
the amount of which has been reduced by any payment, or payments, or off-sets, to the sum of thirty dollars, or under, and which
payment or payments are endorsed on the back of such bond, note
or account; or where any bond, note, account or other agreement
(gaming debts excepted) which in its original exceeded the sum of
thirty dollars, but has been reduced by bond or bonds, note or notes,
although of equal date, and payable at the same time, to a sum or
sums under or of thirty dollars each, that then and in every such
case it shall and may be lawful for any person or persons, who has
or have in his, her, or their hands, any such note or notes, bond or
bonds, or accounts as aforesaid, to bring suit thereon in the Justices’
Court in the district where the debtor or debtors may reside ; and
the Justice or Justices are hereby authorized to give judgment for
whatever sum in his judgment appears to be due.:[
6. Sec. II. p All such appeals shall be tried before any one or
more Justice or Justices in the company district in which the cause‘
originated, by five Jurors, to be drawn, impanneled and sworn as
hereinafter directed, and in no other manner whatsoever, whose verdict shall be final and conclusive between the parties (except removed by certiorari ;) Provided always, that no Justice or Justices of ;
the Peace shall hold any Justices’-Court, or pass any judgment in}
any civil case on any other, or more than one day in each month,]
which day they may appoint in their respective districts; nor at any:
other place than that specially mentioned in the warrant or summons ;
which place shall be as near central as convenience will admit, which,‘
warrant or summons shall be served by any Constable of the dis-:
trictin which the defendant may reside, duly appointed and sworn
to the faithful execution of his office, either by giving a copy to the
defendant in person, or by leaving a copy thereof at his, her, or their
usual and notorious place of abode, at least ten§ days before the day

of trial; and it shall be the duty of the Constable serving the summons or warrant, to make an entry of service thereon in writing, and
sign such return. 7. Sec. III. Where a suit shall be instituted in any Justice’:

-Court on any bond, note, or other written obligation, subscribed by

several persons living in different Counties or districts, the plaintifff
shall have his option to institute his suit in either of the Counties or
districts, and a copy of the original process being served on either or
each of said obligors or promisors by an officer duly authorized, who
shall make a return thereof under his hand to the person applying for
such service, or the Court from which the original issued; and on
such return being made, the Justice or Justices shall be authorized
to enter up judgment against the several obligors or promisors, or
either of them, who shall be summoned as aforesaid.

8. Sec. IV. It shall and may be lawful for any Justice of the
Peace, upon complaint made on oath by any person, that his or her

debtor resides out of the State, or is actually removing without the

limits of the same or any County thereof, or absconds or conceals
himself, or stands in defiance of a peace officer, so that the ordinary

, process of law cannot be served upon him, to grant an attachment

against the estate of such debtor, or so much thereof as shall be of
sufficient value to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand and cost,* which
attachment shall be directed to, and levied by any lawful Constable of the County where the property may be found, upon the estate
of such debtor wherever to be found, either in the hands of any person indebted or having effects of such debtor in their possession,
and summon such person or persons to appear at the Court to be held
in and for the said district to which said attachment may be made
returnable, there to answer upon oath what he she, or they are indebted to, or what effects of such debtor he, she, or they bath or
have in their hands, or had at the time of levying such attachment;
which being returned executed, the Court may by order compel such
person or persons to appear and answer as aforesaidsf And where
any person in whose hands such attachment may be levied, shall deny
on oath owing any money to, or having in his, her, or their hands
any effects of such debtor, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintifff, or his attorney or agent, to traverse such denial, and thereuponan
rissue shall be made up, and the same shall be tried at the next term,
by a Jury of five persons, drawn, impanneled and sworn, in like
manner as in appeals ; but on good cause being shown on oath, the
trial may be put off one term, at the instance of either party,
'and no longer; and if found against such garnishee, he, she,
or they shall be subject to pay the plaintifff such sum as shall be so
found, and cost; and the Court shall order judgment to be entered thereupon against such garnishee as against the original debtor:
Provided, that such Justice of the Peace shall, before granting such
attachment, take bond and security of the party to whom the same
may be granted, in double the sum sworn to by the attaching creditor, payable to the defendant, for satisfying and paying all costs and 1‘
damages which may be incurred by, or happen-to the defendant, in
case the plaintifff suing out such attachment should discontinue or
be cast in his, her, or their suit; which bond shall be returned to the
Court to which such attachment may be returnable; and such attachment shall be tried at or before the second Justices’ Court after;
the one to which it may be made returnable ; and the party entitled
to such costs and damages, may bring suit and recover thereon : and.
every attachment issued without such bond being taken, or where no}
bond shall be returned to the Court with the attachment, the said attachment is hereby declared to be illegal,and shall be dismissed with
costs : Provided always, that every attachment which may be issued
as aforesaid, shall be attested by the Justice issuing the same, and
shall be by the officer levying the same, publicly advertised at the
place of holding the Courts in said distrrct, and at one or more public
places in the County, at least fifteen days previous to the Court to
which said attachment may be made returnable; and if any attachment shall be issued within fifteen days of the next Court, such attachment shall be returnable to the succeeding Court, and shall be
tried as heretofore directed. And all goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, attached, shall be repleviable by the defendant’s giving
bond, with good and sufficient security, to the officer levying the
same, which bond he is hereby empowered to take, compelling the
defendant to appear at the Court to which such attachment may be
made returnable, and to abide by and perform the order of such
Court : Provided nevertheless, that all goods and effects attached and
not replevied, agreeable to the provisions of this Act, where the
same shall be of a perishable nature, the said Justice or Justices of
the Peace shall, on motion of the plaintifff, his, her or their attorney
or agent, order a sale of the same; and the proceeds of such sale
shall be paid into said Court, and by them applied to the discharge of
the plaintifff ’s demand, if established, and costs; and the balance, if
any, returned to the defendant or his attorney: Provided nevertheless, that all sales of perishable property under attachment, shall undergo the same formalities of other Constable’s sales under executions; and whenever any attachment shall be returned served in the
hands of a third person, it shall be lawful, on his or her appearance
and examination, in the manner hereinafter directed, to enter up
judgment as against the original debtor, and award execution for the
money due by him or her to the absent debtor, and against such
property or effects as may be in his or her hands or keeping, belonging to such absent debtor, or so much thereof as will be of value
sullicient to satisfy the judgment or judgments and costs. And all
such goods and chattels, levied on as aforesaid, and not replevied,
shall, after the plaintifff has established his demands, be by order of
the Court sold and disposed of, for and towards satisfying the plaintifff ’s judgment, in like manner as if the same had been taken under
execution; and Where the property so attached and sold as aforesaid, should prove insufiicient to satisfy the debt and cost, or where
the same shall be of the nature of real estate, then and in that case,

it shall be the duty of said Justice to issue execution or executions,
for the amount of said judgment and cost, or so much thereof as remains unsatisfied. And when any person. as gamishee, returns A

debts due to the absent debtor, the Court shall order the same to be
_sued for, and when recovered, subject to the order of the Court.

9. Sec. V. In allcases brought before any Justice’s Court, the A

best evidence the nature of the case will admit of, shall be required;
nor shall any person, plaintifff or defendant, be permitted to prove

his or her account, by his or her own oath, without first making ‘
oath in writing, that he or she hath no other evidence whereby to 

establish the same that is in his or her power to procure,‘ and in all
cases of mutual debts and sets-off, the said Justice or Justices may
enter up judgment for the defendant, where it shall mtisfactorily

sappear that there is a balance due him or her; and on good cause being shown on oath by either party, the said Justices may postpone
the trial three terms, and no longer; and where an execution is levied on property claimed by any person not a party to said execution,
it shall be the duty of the Constable to postpone the sale of such
property, and make return thereof to the first Court in said district:
Provided, the person putting in such claim shall [first make oath in
writing, that said property is not liable to said execution,1' and shall
also] give bond and security in double the amount of such execution, which bond the Constable is hereby authorized to take, payable to the plaintifff in execution, with condition to pay all costs and
damages which he or she. may sustain, in case it should appear such
claim was frivolous and intended for delay only, recoverable in any
Court having cognizance thereof; and it shall be the duty of the
said Court to cause the right of property to be tried at the next term
by five Jurors, to be drawn and impanneled in like manner as appeals,‘ and on good cause being shown on oath, the Court may postpone the trial for one term, and no longer.

10. Sec. VI. The said Justices shall have power and authority
to hold to bail for debts within their jurisdiction, under such restrictions and regulations as prevail in the Superior and Inferior
Courts.

11. Sec. VII. Any Justice of the Peace may issue summonses
for witnesses resident within the County in any case to be tried before
him, which shall be served five days before the day of trial ; and such
witnesses shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $10 for default.
at the discretion of said Justice, and moreover be liable to the party
grieved by action. in any Court having jurisdiction of the same, for
any damages he may sustain by such default, who may issue execution for the amount of said fine: Provided, sufficient excuse shall
not be made at or before the next Court day : Provided also, that
all witnesses duly summoned, and attending said Court, who may
reside out of the district where such Court may be held, shall receive seventy-live cents per day for their attendance ;"" and provided
also, that there shall not be taxed in the bill of cost the expense of
more than two witnesses to prove the same fact; and it shall be the
duty of all persons summoned as aforesaid, to attend from time to
time until the cause shall be determined, or they be otherwise discharged by the Court ; and all fines shall be paid into the hands of
the Inferior Court for the use of the County; and when any witness resides out of the County, whose evidence may be material for
either party in any cause pending in the said Justice’s Court, it shall
and may be lawful for the party wishing to obtain such testimony to
obtain a commission from the Justice issuing the summons, first giving the adverse party, his agent or attorney, five days’ notice, accompanied with a copy ot the interrogatories intended to be exhibited,
which commission shall be directed to any two or more freeholders,
one of whom shall be a Justice of the Peace, to examine on oath,
all and every such witness or witnesses; and such examination,
when so taken, shall be sealed up by the commissioners, and directed to the Magistrate by whom it was issued, and on returning the
same shall swear!’ that it has undergone no alteration from the time
of his receiving it of the commissioners; and the commission and
interrogatories so issued, executed and returned, shall be read on the
trial at the instance of either party.

12. SEC. VIII. The method of drawing Jurors for the trial of appeals and all other cases in Justices’ Courts in each district, shall
be as follows : The Justice or Justices residing in each Captain’s
district, in conjunction with commanding officers of said district, shall, once in every two years, procure or make out a list of
all persons liable to serve as Jurors in the Superior Courts, who may
be residents in their respective districts, and shall write the name of
every person so liable on a separate piece of paper, which shall
be deposited in a box in an apartment marked No. 1., and shall draw
therefrom not less than five nor more than seven of the names, so

‘ before deposited, from time to time, to try the causes so depending

before them, which names so drawn shall be entered in a book bythe Justice presiding at the drawing thereof, and shall be deposited
in an apartment of said box, marked No. 2; and after all the names.
are drawn from No. 1, they shall ‘commence drawing from No. 9, and
so on alternately: Provided, that no Justice shall presume to draw.
any Jury, but on a Court day, and in public, and by a person not interested in any suit to be tried by said Jury; and any person so:
drawn and summoned by a Constable five days before Court, neg--,

_ lecting to appear, shall be fined by the Justice or Justices in a sum

not exceeding three dollars, unless such Juror shall show sufficient
cause of excuse on oath at the next term ; and in all cases of deliciency of Jurors, the Constable, by the direction of the Justices, shall
fill and complete such Jury from the bystanders: Provided there shall
not be less than three of the original pannel on such Jury ; and theyshall for every verdict by them given in be entitled to twenty-five cents;

to be paid by the party in whose favor such verdict may be given,
and to be taxed in the bill of costs. ,

13. SEC. IX. The oath to be administered to the Jury on the

trial of appeals, also for the trial of the right of property, and on a
traverse trial in Justices’ Courts, shall be as follows: “You shall
well and truly try the cause now pending between A B, plaintifff,
and C D, defendant, and a true verdict give according to equity,
and the opinion you entertain of the evidence produced to you,
to the best of your skill and knowledge, without favor or affection
to either party, provided the case is not withdrawn; so help you
God.”
; 14. Sec. X. Where any person or persons, charged with any
-offense, and brought before a Justice or Justices of the Peace, shall
be discharged for want of sufficient cause of commitment, the Justice
or Justices may, in his or their discretion, discharge the party with
cost, or direct the cost to be paid by the prosecutor.
, 15. Sec. XI. No person shall be permitted, in any trial in said
Justices’ Court, to deny his bond, note, or bill, for money or other
thing, unless such person shall first make oath in writing to the truth
of such denial. _

16. SEC. XII. In case any person or persons, after being summoned to answer any complaint for debt, before any Justice of the
Peace, shall, before the sitting of such Court, remove out of the district, such Justice may nevertheless give judgment against him, her,
or them; and if any person shall after judgment of such Court remove
out of the t or Caun y- before satisfaction made, such Justice
may, in either case, issue execution against such person or persons, Which execution being backed by any Justice of the County
where such person or persons, or his, her, or their property may be
found, may be levied by any lawful Constable of said County.

17. SEC. XIII. If any person or persons shall live or reside with‘in any County or district for the space of ten days, the same shall
constitute a sufiicient residence so as to authorize the Justices of
said County or district to proceed against him, her, or them, before
any company district Court, as hereinbefore pointed out for all debts
within their jurisdiction.""
' 18. Sec. XIV. In case there be no Justice of the Peace resident in any Captain’s district, then it shall and may be lawful for
a Justice, in any adjoining district, to proceed in like manner as if the
defendant was an inhabitant of his district ; and all cases in which a
Justice of the Peace may be a party, shall be tried in the nearest Justices’ Court to the residence of the defendant in said County, and
not within the district in which he may reside.

19. Sec. XV. The Justices of the Peace of the respective Counties shall be, and they are hereby declared to be liable to prosecution

and trial, by indictment, for mal-practice in office ; and it shall be the

duty ot the Attorney or Solicitor General, on complaint made to
them, or either of them, on oath, by any person or persons, to frame
and prefer a bill of indictment to the Grand Jury of the Coiuity in
Wlllcll the Justice or Justices complained of may reside, containing

the merits of the complaint specially set forth; which indictment, if
found by the Grand Jury, after hearing the evidence and the parties,
shall be tried by a Petit Jury; and if convicted on such indictment,
the judgment of the Court may extend to fine and removal from office, or either, at discretion. [See Penal Laws, sec. 192.]

20. Sec. XVI. When it shall appear by the return of a Constable‘
on any execution or executions, that the same has been paid by a
security or securities, it shall be the duty of the Justice or Justices to
make an entry thereof in their docket book, and such security or se-I
curities shall have the use and control of said execution or executions
for the purpose of remunerating him, her, or themselves out, of their
principal, although suchexecution may have been levied and property sold to satisfy the same.

21. SEC. XVII. It shall be the duty of Constables to advertise«

all intended sales at two or more of the most public places in their!
proper district, and at one or more of the most public places in the‘
County,1- at le ist fifteen days before any sale, and shall give a full
and clear description of the property to be sold ; and all Constables’
sales shall be at the place of holding Justices’ Courts in the severali
company districts, and on a Court day, and that between the hours]
of ten and three o’clock.I .
_ 22. Sec. XVIII. No Constable shall be authorized to levy on1
any negro or negroes, or real estate, unless there is no other person-;
al estate to be found sufficient to satisfy the debt§‘ and then and in}
that case, they are hereby authorized to levy on the same wherever!
to be found, and deliver over the execution or executions to thel
Sheriff of the County, with a return of the property levied on, who‘
shall proceed to sell the same, with such formalities asare prescribed
for the sale of real estates.’

23. Sec. XIX. All judgments which may be obtained in, midi‘
executions issued from any J nstices’ Court after the passing of this:
Act, shall bear equal dignity with judgments obtained in and executions issued from the Superior or Inferior Courts, and shall bind all
the property of the defendant from the date of the said judgment;(
and also all the property of his, her, or their securities from the time:
of their entering themselves as such until the same shall be satisiied§

24. Sec. XX. A reasonable compensation shall be allowed to:
C'0t1stab'3s, for carrying property levied on to the place of sale, when:
there appears an absolute necessity for so doing, to be adjudged of by;

I

the Justice or Justices resident in said district. ,
25. Sec. XXI. It shall be the duty of the Constables of the}

several districts to levy all executions put into their hands agreeably
to the tenor thereof, and to make due returns of the same together

with all summonses or warrants, to the Court to which they may
f"°be made returnable; and if any Constable shall fail to execute and
make returns, or pay to or account with any person for whom he
may have received money on any execution, within ten days after
3-'_ the reception thereof, the person so injured as aforesaid, may
upon application to any Justice within the district where said Constable may reside (and in case there should be no Justice in said district, then an application to a Justice in any adjacent district) whose
duty it shall be to grant a warrant to such applicant against such
Constable, and such Justice shall, upon proof thereof, award judgment and execution for the same and all cost against such Constable,

and also hne him for such abuse in a sum not exceeding ten per cent.
on the amount so withheld ; and in case of neglect or refusal to serve

and return any warrant or summons as aforesaid, may line the Constable so offending, in a sum not exceeding the amount of the debt

1. due by the defendant; and all Constables shall moreover be subject

‘, to be prorecuted and tried for mal-practice in office, in like manner

as herein pointed out for Justices of the Peace, and liable to like
pains and penalties. ‘

26. Sec. XXII. From and after the passing of this Act, Justices of the Peace and Constables throughout this State, shall receive

the following fees for the services’ hereinafter mentioned, and no

IIIOFB.
JUSTICES, 01-‘ THE PEACE FEES IN’ CRIMINAL CASES.‘

7 For affidavit to obtain a warrant, 25 cents ; for making out a warrant, 25 cents ; for making out a commitment, 25 cents ; for making
out recognizance and returning the same to Court, 25 cents; for

each subpoena for witnesses, 12 1-2 cents.

IN crvn. cAsEs.1'

For a warrant or stunmons, 25 cents; for each cause tried by said
Justice, 25 cents ; for affidavit to obtain an attachment or to hold to
bail and taking the bond, 50 cents ; for each execution, ca. sa. or attachment, 25 cents; for taking interrogatories and certifying the
same, one dollar; for drawing Jury and making out venire, 25 cents
for each cause tried by said.Jury, 25 cents ; for each affidavit where

there is no cause pending, 25 cents.

coNs'rAnu:s’ rm-:3 IN crvn. CASES.I

~ For serving a warrant, summons, or subpoena, 25 cents; for each
additional copy, 25 cents ; for attending each trial in a Justices’ Court
25 cents; for summoning a Jury, 50 cents; for each cause tried by
said Jury, 25 cents; for levying and advertising an attachment, 26

cents; for levying a ca. sa. or execution and advertising, 25 cents ;
carrying a prisoner to jail, per mile 4 cents ; for carrying a negro to
and from jail when under execution, per mile 4 cents; for keeping a
horse, mare, mule, ass, or ex, per day, 12 1-2 cents; for each head
of neat cattle, per day 3 cents; for each head of sheep, goats, or hogs
per day 2 cents; and shall moreover be entitled to five per centum on
the amount of sales made by him under execution.

27'. Size. XXIII. In future any person or persons who may institute any suit or suits in any Jnstice’s Court, shall be at liberty to
settle or withdraw the same at any time, on payment of the cost
which may have already accrued. And in all cases where execution
or executions may issue and being returned with an entry of service
thereon, no property to be found whereon to levy, the plaintifff is
hereby liable and bound for the cost, and that on refusal to pay the
same, execution may issue for the .said amount against the said
plaintifff.‘

Sac. XXIV. [R.epealed. See Roads, Ferries, and Bridges, sec.
17,29]

28. Sec. XXV. It shall be lawful for any Constable of the
County to serve any warrant or summons wherein any Justice of l
the Peace or Constable may be a party, and to summon any witnesses and to serve any bail warrant or attachment, and to make due
return thereof to the Court to which the same may be made return-,
able ; and where it may so happen that there is no Constable in thedistrict, it shall and may be lawful for any Constable in the County;
to act in the said district, in all respects as if such Constable had;
been appointed for said district.

Sec. XXVI. [Appointment of Constables by the Magistrates.
See “ County Oflicers,” sec. 11.]

29. Sec. XXVII. The Justices of the Peace of the several dis--,
tricts shall have power during the sitting of their respective Courts,;
to fine or imprison any person or persons for contempt of said Courts,‘
to be adjudged of by the said Justice or Justices, in any sum not
exceeding $2, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two days
for each offense, which said fine when collected, shall be paid over

into the hands of the Inferior Court for County purposes.
Sac. XXVIII. [Repeals all conflicting laws]

Act of November 23, 1814. Vol. III. 382.

30. So much of the Vth section of the above recited [the fore--«
going] Act as requires persons claiming property under execution,l
not a party to such execution, to make oath that such property is:
not liable to such execution, be and the same is hereby repealed.}
And in all cases of executions from any Justices’ Courts in this
State, levied on property claimed by any person not a party to such
execution, such person shall make oath that such property levied
on is his, her, or their right and property, or his, her, or their property as attorney, agent, guardian, executor, or administrator, as the case

may be, to the best of his, her, or their knowledge and belief, and
shall moreover give security in terms of the said Vth section.

An Act supplementary to the Act of 14th December, 1811. [See
sec. 5th of this title.]—Approved Dec. 12, 1816. Vol. III 384.

31. In all cases in Justices’ Courts, commenced against joint obligors or promisors, if any one or more of them shall make it appear
to the satisfaction of the Court, that he, she, or they signed said obligation as a security, or securities only, it shall be the duty of the
Justice to enter up judgment against him, her, or them, as such, and
award execution in the same manner, which when satisfied by such
security, or out of their property, he, she, or they shall have the control and benefit of said execution, for the purpose of remunerating

, him, her, or themselves, out of their principal in the same manner as
if they had been security on the stay of execution—Provided, judgment and execution shall be against the principal also.

An Act to extend the powers Qf Sheriff: and Constables in certain cases.
Approved Dec. 19, 1818. Vol. III. 168.

Sec. 1. [“ Judiciary,” sec. 87.]

32. Sec. ll. It shall be lawful for any Constable, and he is
hereby required, in all cases where a bail or criminal process is placed in his hands, and the person against whom the same may be, is
moving about from one district to another, to serve the said process

in any district within the County in which he may be Constable.
Sec. III. [“County Oflicers,” sec. 28.]

Act to amend the Judiciary Act of this State, so far as respects Justices of the Peace.—Approved Dec. 9, 1819. Vol. III. 386.

33. From and after the passage of this Act, it shall and may be
‘lawful for all and every Justice of the Peace in this State, on appli_cation of any non-resident of the County or State, for any civil pro.cess, to require said non-residents to deposit the cost, or give suiticient security for the same, any law, usage, or custom to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to regulate and establish an uniform practice in Justices’
Courts.—Approved Dec. 9, 1819. Vol. III. 386.

34. SEC. I. From and after the first day of January next, the proceedings in the Justices’ Courts shall be uniform throughout the
State.

35. Sue. II. The first term shall be deemed and considered as the
appearance term, when the case shall be docketed on what shall be
called the appearance docket, and on the defendant failing to appear,

judgment shall be entered by default as in the Superior Court, and
at the second term, unless there is a sufficient showing, judgment
shall be entered up: Provided nevertheless, the party or parties shall
be entitled to an appeal agreeably to the Judiciary law now in force
in this State.

36. Sec. III. All Justices of the Peace shall have power, in all
cases of debt or liquidated demand, to give judgment for any sum

‘not exceeding $30, exclusive of interest and cost.

An Act more effectually to compel Justices of the Peace and Constables to pay over monies received or collected by them in their ojicial capacities.—Approved Dec. 22, 1820. Vol. IV. 203.

37'. Justices of the Peace shall be so far considered officers of
the Superior Court, as to be subject to be ruled under similar regulations as are customarily pursued in relation to any other oliicer of
said Court, when they shall refuse or neglect to pay over any mon-'
eys which they may have received or collected in their official capacity.“ '

38. SEC. II. Constables shall be subject to be ruled by their respective Justices’ Courts, and compelled to give an account of their
actings and doings, or pay over monies which they may have received or collected in their otlicial capacity, under_ the same regulations as are pursued in the Superior Court, in relation to officers of
said Court.

An Act to provide a more easy and convenient mode of proving open
accounts, so as to make them evidence in Justices’ C'ourts.—Approved 26th Dec. 1827. Vol. IV. 221.

39. Whereas, the practice now pursued by the different Justices’
Courts inthis State, of requiring open accounts to be proven in open
Court in order to make them evidence, is found in many instances to
be highly inconvenient; for remedy whereof,

Be it enacted, That from and immediately after the passage of
this Act, in any suit which may be instituted in a J ustice’s Court
within this State, upon an open account against any party who may
have removed without the jurisdictional limits of the County in
which such account was contracted, or who may reside without the

County in which the account was contracted, the said account may‘

be proven by a written affidavit before any officer authorized to administeran oath; and when so proven, shall be received in evidence
upon the trial of said suit, as though the same had been proven in open

Court; Provided however, that if the defendant will make an atiida-p

vit in writing, denying the justice and fairness of the whole or any
part of the said account, the said Court shall not give judgment for
so much thereof as may be so traversed or controverted, unless supported by other proof.

Ssc. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,

are hereby repealed.

An Act to make Constables elective by the people, and the mode of
talcing their bonds, and to point out their duty in certain cases.Approved December 22, 1829. Vol. IV. 407.

Secs. I. II. and III. [See County Ollicers, sec. 55.]

‘ 48. Sec. IV. Whenever notes for collection shall be placed in the
hands of the Constable, it shall be his duty to grant receipts for the
same, and pay over the amount when collected to the plaintifff, or his,
her, or their agent or attorney, unless there should be conflicting
claims, it shall then be the duty of the Constable to report the same
to the next J ustice’s Court of said district, subject to the order of said
Court.

Sec. V. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act are
hereby repealed.

An Act for the recovery of costs in Justices’ Courts in certain cases.
Approved Dec. 26,1831. Pam. 140.

41. See. I. From and after the passage of this Act, in all cases
carried up by Writ of certiorari"" from a Justice’s Court, to the Superior Court, and the said certiorari shall be sustained by the said Court,
and the proceedings in the Court below set aside, without further
order; and in all cases carried up in like manner from a Justice’s
Court to the Superior Court as aforesaid, and the writ of certiorari
shall be sustained, and a new trial ordered, the plaintifff in certiorari,
provided he finally succeeds in his cause, shall recover of the defendant all cost that he or she may have been compelled to pay and lay
out before a certiorari could be granted.

42. Sec. II. It shall be the duty of the Justices of the Peace in
all such cases, as are mentioned in the foregoing section, to issue execution in the name of the prevailing party, for all costs that may
have accmed in the said case.

Sec. III. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act, are
hereby repealed.

An Act to amend an Act more efectually to compel Jusaces Q/' the Peace

and Constable: to pay over money: received or collected by them, is
their ojicial capacity, passed 22d Dec. 1820.—Assented to 21st
December, 1839. Pam. 140.

43. Sec. 1. Be it enacted, That the Justices of the Peace shall

be so far considered officers of the Superior Court as to be subject to
be ruled under similar regulations as are customarily pursued in relation to any other officer of said Court, when they shall refuse or
neglect to pay over any monies which they may have received or
collected, in their official capacity ; Proz-ided, that in case the rule
cannot be served upon the Justice or Justices during the term of the
Superior Court at which the rule is granted, that it may be lawful to
serve the same during the vacation, and be held and considered returnable to the next term of said Court, any law to the contrary notwithstanding. ' C

An Act to authorize Constables of this State to serve processes, and
to perform other acts pertaining to their o[7ice, in any district, in certain cases therein specijied.—Assented to 22d December, 1840.
Pain. 54.

44. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the first day of
January next, in all cases where suit or suits are commenced in any:
of the J usticcs’ Courts of this State, against any joint obligors ori
promisors, it shall be lawful tor the Constable of the district in whichj
such suit or suits are commenced, to serve all processes on all of the
parties, and do all other legal acts which may be required of them,
in the progress of such suit or suits in any district or districts in the
County in which such suit or suits may be commenced.

Sec. II. And be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of
laws to the contrary be, and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to authorize Constables to serve summons nine days before
the sitting of the Court to which they are made retnrnable.—Assented to Nov. 24, 1841. Pam. 144. ,

45. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of :
this Act, it shall be lawful for the Constables in this State to serve;
all summons to them directed, nine days before the sitting oi the
Court to which they are made returnable: Provided, the same shall
have been issued and bear date ten days previous to the sitting of the
Court to which they are made returnable ; any law, usage or custom
to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to require all endorsers [endorsees] to sue the principal in
his, her or their district.—-Assented to Dec. 10, 1841. Pam. 129.

46. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of §
this Act, that in all cases where any person or persons shall endorsef,
a note or notes, it shall not be lawful for the endorsee to sue the endor- -eer, where the principal and endorser live in the same County, without first sneing the principal in his, her or their district: Provided

always, that nothing in this Act. shall prevent the endorser being

sued in the same action and the same district with the maker; and
provided, that this Act shall only apply to Justices’ Courts.

An Act to authorize defendants in Execution to point out any property belonging to them in their possession.—Assented to Dec. 27,
1842. Pam. 85.

47. Sec. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of
this Act, the defendants in executions arising in Justices’ Courts, shall
have the right to point out to the levying officer, either land or negroes, in the possession of the defendant: Provided, however, nothing shall so be construed in this Act, to restrain the officer from levying such execution on a sufficient amount of property to satisfy the
same.

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to alter, repeal and amend so much of the 21st section gfan
Act entitled an Act to alter and amend the several Judiciary Act:
now in force in this State, so far as relates to Justices’ Courts, appror
ed December 14th, 1811, which requires Constables to advertise all

intended sales. at one or more of the most public places in the County.
Assented to Dec. 27’, 1842. Pam. 55.

48. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passageof
this Act, so much of the above recited Act as requires Constables to
advertise all intended sales at one or more of the most public places
in the County, be and the same is hereby repealed; and in lieu
thereof, that hereafter it shall be the duty of the Constables of this
State, to advertise all intended sales, by them to be made, at three
or more of the most public places in their proper districts.*

Sec. II. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
be and the same are hereby repealed.

An Act to declare and make certain the Law of this State in relation

to the jurisdiction q/ Justices’ Courts, in certain cases.—Assented
to Dec. 26, 1842. Pam. 113.

TVhereas, it has been of late, held and considered in some parts Of
this State, that the Act of 1811, relating to Justices’ Courts, and
authorizing Justices of the Peace in certain cases, to give judgment
in several cases on the same day between the same parties, and in
favor of the same plaintifff; and when the aggregate amount of such
judgments exceeds the sum of thirty dollars, &c.; is contrary W
the Constitution of the State as it then existed, and is thereforee of n_0
authority; and whereas, it is right and proper, that the law in this
particular should be made certain according to its long construction
and understanding,

49. See. I. Be it thereforee enacted, That in all cases when any
bond, note, account or other agreement, (gaming debts cxcepted,)»
which in its original exceeded the sum of thirty dollars, but has been,
reduced by bond or bonds, note or notes, although of equal dates,‘
and payable at the same time, to a sum or sums, under or of thirty
dollars each, that then, and in every such case, it shall and may be lawful for -any person or persons, who has or have in his, her or their
hands, any such note or notes, bond or bonds, or accounts as aforesaid, to bring suit thereon in the Justices’ Court, as in other cases;
and in such case the Justice or Justices are hereby authorized to
give judgment as in other cases, any opinion, usage, or construction
to the contrary notwithstanding.

An Act to regulate Justices’ Courts in cases of set-ofs.—Assented
to Dec. 27', 1842. Pam. 160.

50. See. I. Be it enacted, That from and after the passage of this
Act, in alleases in the Justices’ Courts of this State, where the
demand or claims of the defendant is greater in amount, and exceed
the plaintifff ’s demand, it shall be the duty of the Justices to allow
a set-off, as is now by law allowed and pointed out, and give judg-}
ment against the plaintifff, in favor of the defendant: Provided, that,
the balance in favor of said defendant, does not exceed the sum of
thirty dollars, including both principal and interest.

51. Sec. II. In all cases where the defendant’s demands or claim.
exceeds the sum of thirty dollars in balance, then it shall be the'
duty of the Justices to enter a credit in favor of the plaintifff, for the
amount of his debt on the defcndant’s claim.

52. Sec. III. When the claim of the defendant is an open ac-;
count, the Justices may allow such open account to be proven in
Court: Provided, that neither of the parties shall be allowed to prove.
their accounts, by their own oath, in any sum over thirty dollars.

Sec. IV. All laws and parts of laws militating against this Act,
he and the same are hereby repealed.


