Be it thereforee HaOted by the Queen's moat uoellent
:Majesty, by and with the advioe and consent of the Lord.a
Spiritual and Temporal, a.nd Commom, in this present Parliament auembled, and by the authority of the same, u follows r 
1. 81uwt tit~ cmd constructi" with 36 f 87 Viet. e. 66.Thia Act shall, so far as ii oonli1tent with the tenor thereof,
be conatrued as one with the Supreme Court of Judicature Act,
1873 (in this Act referred to as the prlnoipal Act), and together 
with the principal Act may be cited as " The Supreme Court of.
Judicature Act.I, 1878 a.nd 1875," and this Act may be cited 
separately as" The Supreme Court of Judicature Act, 1875."
2. C~ of Aet.-Thil Act, except any provision 
thereof which ii declared to take effect before the oommencement of this Act, aha11 commenoe and oome into operation on
the 6rst day of November, 1875. 
Seotiom twenty, twenty-one, a.nd fifty-five of the principal
Act shall not commence or oome into operation until the Snt
day of November, 1876, a.nd until the said 1eotiom oome into
operation an appeal may be brought to the House of Lordi
from &:11y judgment or order of the Court of Appeal hereinafter
mentioned in a.ny oa.1e in which any appeal or error might now 
be brought to the Ho111e of Lorda or to Her Majesty in Council
from a similar judgment, decree, or order of any court or judge 
whose jurisdiction ii by the principal Act tra.naferred to the
High Court of J uetioe or the Court of Appeal, or in any oue in
which leave to appeal shall be given by the Court of Appeal. 
8. Eq,Ztmati07' of 86 f 37 Viet. e, 66, ,. 51 a., to fl.umber of 
Ju,d.gu.-Whereaa by section five of the principal Act it ia
provided aa follows : " that if at the commenoemat of this Act 
the number of puisne justices a.nd junior ba.rona who llhaJl
become judges of the aa.id High Court shall exceed twelve in
the whole, no new judge of the said High Court ahal1 be 
appointed in the plaoe of. any auoh puiane juatioe or junior
baron who shall die or resign while suoh whole number ehall
exceed twelve, it being intended that the permanent number
of judges of the aa.id High Court shall not exoeed twenty-one ; "
snd whereu, having regard to the state of buaineu in the
aeveral court.a whose juriadiotion ia transferred by the principal 
Act to the High Court of Juatioo, it is Ul)edien\ that the
number of judges thereof should not at preeent be reduced :
Be it en&eted, th&t so much of the said eection u is hereinbefore recited shall be repealed. 
The Lord Chancellor shall not be deemed to be permanent
judge of that court, and the provisions of the said eection 
relating to the appointment and style of the judges of the said
High Court ehall not apply to the Lord Chanoellor. 
4,. Conatitu.tion of Court of Appec:il.-Her Majesty's Court of 
Appeal, in this Act and in the principal Act referred to u the
Court of Appeal, abaJl be constituted a.a follow1 : There aball
be five a officio judges thereof, and also 10 many ordinary
judgea, aot exceeding three at any one time, u Her Majesty
shall from time to time appoint. 
The ez ojficio judges shall be the Lord Chancellor, the Lord 
Chief Juatioe of England, the Muter of the Rolla, the Lord
Chief J uatioe of the Common Pleaa, and the Lord Chief Baron 
of the Exchequer.
The first ordinary judges ol the said court lhaJl be the pre
sent Lorda Justices of Appeal in Chancery, and such one other
person a.a Her Majesty may be pleased to appoint by letters
patent. Such appointment may be made either before or after
the commencement of this Act, but if made before shall take
effect at the commencement of the Act. 
The ordinary judges of the Court of Appeal shall be styled
Justices of Appea.1.(1) 
The Lord Chancellor may by writing addressed to the President of any one or more of the following divisions of the High
Court of Justice, that is to ea.y, the Queen's Benoh Division,
the Common Pleas Division, the Exchequer Division, and the
Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Division, req11est the attend. 
a.nee at any time, except during the times of the spring or
aummer circuits, of an additional judge from such division or
divisions (not being ., officio judge or judges of the _ Court of 
Appeal) at the sittings of the Court of Appeal, and a judge, 
to be selected by the diviaion from which his attendance ii
requeeted, shall attiend a.ocordingly. 
Every additional judge, during the time that he attends the
sittings of Her Majesty's Court of Appeal, ahall have all the
jurisdiction and powers of a judge of the Ba.id Court of Appeal,
but he aha.11 not otherwise be deemed to be a. judge of the
said Court, or to have oea.sed to be a judge of the division of
the High Court of Justice to which he belongs. 
Section fifty-four of the principal A.ct i.e hereby repealed, and
instead thereof the following enactment shall take effect : No
judge of the said Court of Appeal aha.11 sit as a. judge on the
hearing of &n appeal from any judgment or order made by
himself, or ma.de by 1,D.y divisional court of the High Court of 
which he wu and ia a. member.(2) 
Whenever the office of an ordinary judge of the Court of
Appeal becomes vacant a new judge may be appointed thereto
by Her Majesty by Letters Patent. 
5. Tentm, of office of judge,, <Ind oath, of office. Judga not to 
sit in th6 House of Oommona.-All the judges of the High
Court of Justice, and of the Court of Appeal reapeotively, with
the exception of the Lord Chancellor, ahall hold their offices as
1uch judges reepeotinly during good behavior, subject to a
power of removal by Her Majesty, on an addreas presented to
Her Majesty by both Houses of Parliament. No judge of
either of the ea.id Courts 1ha.ll be capable of being elected to
or of sitting in the House of Common1. Every person
appointed after the paeeing of this Aot to be judge of either
of the aaid Courts (other tha.n the Lord Cha.noellor), when he
enters on the execution of his office, shall take, in the presence
of the Lord Chancellor, the oath of a.llegia.noe, and judioia.l oath
a.a defl.ned by the Promissory Oaths Act, 1868. The oaths 
to be t.aken by the Lord Chancellor shall be the u.me u beret.ofore. 
6. Pre~e of judgu.-The Lord Chancellor ehall be
President of the Court of Appeal ; the other ez officio judge,
of the Court of Appeal sb&ll ra.nk in the order of their present
repectiTe official precedence. The ordinary judges of the
Court of Appeal, if not entitled to precedence u Peen or Privy 
Councillon, ahall rank aooording to the priority of their
1'88pective appointment.a as such judges. 
The judgee of the High Court of Justice who are not abo
judges of the Court of Appeal sb&ll rank next after the judges
of the Court of Appeal, and, among themaelvee (subject to the
provisions in the principal Act contained as to existing judges),
aooording to the priority of their reepective appointment&. 
7. Jun,cUmon of Lo-rda Ju,tica in t'UJ>d of l'lfflGtio,.A.ny jurisdiction u81l&lly vested in the Lords Jutioee of Appeal
in Chancery, or either of them, in relation to the pereone and
eetatea of idiots, lunatice, and penona of uneound mind, eb&ll
be exercia"1 by such judge or judges of the High Court of
Justice or Court of Appeal as may be intrusted by the lip 
manual of Her Majeety or her euoceeson with the care and
commitment of the cuatody of such pereom and eat.ates ; and
all enactment.a referring to the Lorde Juatioes &a so intruated
ab&ll be construed ae if such judge or judges so intrueted had
been named therein instead of such Lorda J utioee : Provided
that each of the pereona who ma.y at the commencement of the
principal Act be Lorda Justices of Appeal in Cbanoery ahall,
during such time as he continue& to be a judge of the Court of
Appeal, a.nd ia intrueted u af oreeaid, retain the jurisdiction
veated in him in relation to such pereons a.nd estates as aforesaid, 
8. .Admircilty judge, 11tld ngi,trar.-Wbereu by section 
eleven of the principal Act it ia provided a.s follows : " Every 
existing judge who ia by this Act made a judge of the High
Court of Justice or an ordinary judge of the Court of Appeal
ah&ll, &a to tenure of office, rank, title, salary, pension,
patronage, and powers of appointment or diami.ual, and all
other privileges and disqualifications, remain in the same condition as if this Act had not passed ; and, subject to the 
chaqe effected in their jurisdiction. and duties by or in pursuance of the provisions of this Aot, each of the said existing
judgei ahaJl be capable of performing and liable to perform
all duties which he would have been capable of performing
or liable to perform in punuance of any Act of Pe.rlia.ment,
law, or custom if this Act had not pa&aed. No judge
appointed before the passing of this Aot shall be required to 
act under any commission of assize, niai priua, oyer and t.erminer, or gaol delivery, unleu he WIS so liable by uuge or
ouatom at the commencement of this Act :" 
And wherea.a the judge of the High Court of Admiralty ia by
the principal A.ct appoint.eel a judge of the High Court of J uatice : 
And whereas noh judge ia, as to aalary and pension, inferior
in position to the other puime judges of the superior courts of
common law, but holds certain eoolesiastioal and other oftloes in
addition to the offl.oe of judge of the High Court of Admiralty : 
And whereas it i.a expedient that such judge, if he be willing
to relinquish such other offl.oee, should be placed in the same
position aa to rant, aa1ary, and pension aa the other puilne 
judges of the nperior courts of common law :
Be it enaot.ed tha.tIf the exi.ating judge of the High Court of Admiralty under 
bis band signitlu to the Lord Chanoellor in writing, before the
oommenoement of the principal Act, that he i.a willing to 
relinquish auoh other offloea as aforeaaid, and doea before
the commencement of the principal Aot resign all other
oftlcea of emolument held by him except the oftloe of Judge of
the High Court of Admiralty, he ahall, from and after the
commencement of the principal Act, be entitled to the sa.me
rank, aaJ.ary, and pension aa if he had been appointed a judge
of the High Court of J uatioe immediat.ely on the commencement of the principal Act, with this addition, tb&t, in reckoning _
service for the purposes of bis pension, hi.a servioe aa a judge
of the High Court of Admiralty ahall be reckoned in the ea.me
manner aa if the High Court of J ustioe had been establi.ahed at
the time of his aooepting the office of judge of the High Court
of Admiralty, and he had continued from nch time to be a
judge of the aid High Court of Justice. 
The present holder of the offloe of registrar of Her Majellty
in :Ecclesiastical and Admiralty oauBN, shall, u respeota any
appeals in which he would othenri.ee be oonoerned commw
within the oognisance of the Court of Appeal, be deemed to be
an officer attached to the Supreme Court ; and the oftloe, so 
far as respeota the dutiee in relation to auch r.ppeala &11 aforeaaid, ahall be deemed to be a aeparat.e oftloe within the mea.nills
of section seventy-seven of the principal Act, and may be
dealt with aooordingl7. He llhall be intitled, in ao far u he 
mst.a.ina any loea of emolument.a by or in oomequenoe of the
principal Act or thia Act, to prefer a claim to the Treasury in
the same manner a.a an oftloer paid out of fees whose emoluments are tJreoted b7 the p&llling of the principal Act ia
entitled to do under section eighty of the principal Act. 
Subject a.e aforesaid, the person who ia at the time of the
pulling of thia Act registrar of Her Majeety in Ecoleeiutical
and Admiralty caueee shall, notwithat.ending anything in the
principal Act or this Act, ban the same rank and hold hia
office upon the same t.enure and upon the l&Dle term, and con.
clitions u heretofore ; but it ahall be lawful for Her MajeatJ
by order in council made upon the reoommendation of the Lord
Chancellor, with the concurrence of the Treasury, to make,
notwithstanding anything contained in any Act of Parliament,
111ch arrangements with reapeot to the dutiea of the said laatm.entioned oflloe, either by abolition thereof or othenriae, u to
Her Majesty may seem expedient r Provided that such order
shall not take effect during the continua.nee in such otlloe of
the aaid peraon eo . being registrar at the time of the puaing
of this Act, without hia a.eaent. 
Every judge of the Probate, Diroroe, and Admiralty Diviaion of the said High Court of Juatioe appointed after the
passing of thia Act shall, so far aa the etat.e of buainees in the
said diruion will admit, share with the judges mentioned in
section thirty-aeven of the principal Act the duty of holding 
aittinp for trials by jury in London and Middleaex, and 
eittmga under commiaaiona of asaize, ayer and terminer, and
gaol delivery. 
9. London Oou-rt of Bankruptcy not to be wllfl.sj'ernd to High 
Court of Jmfics.-The London Court of Bankruptcy shall not
be united or consolidated with the Supreme Court of Judi
cature, and the jurisdiction of that Court shall not be transferred under the principal Act to the High Court of Justioe,
but shall continue the aame in all reipeCta as if such transfer
had not been made by the principal Act, and the principal Act 
abaU be construed &8 if such union, consolidation, and transfer
bad not been made : Provided that- 
(1.) The office of Chief Judge in Bankruptcy shall be filled
by such one of the judges of the High Court of Jus.
tioe e.ppointed sinoe the pusing of the Ba.nkrupt.oy
Act, 1869, or, with his consent, of such one of the
judges appointed prior to the passing of the lut,. 
mentioned Act, as may be appointed by the Lord
Che.noellor to that office ; and 
(2.) The appeal from the London Court of Bankruptcy shall
lie to the Court of Appeal in aooorde.nce with the
principal A.ct. 
10. Amendment of S6 4' 87 Viet. e. 66, ,. 25, a., to rule, of
Za10 ~o,a. certain. pointa.-Whereas, by section twenty.five of
the principal Act, after reciting that it ia expedient to amend
and decl&re the law to be thereafter administered in England
as to the matters nerl therein&fter mentioned, certain enactments are made with respect to the law, and it is expedient to 
amend the ea.id section: Be it thereforee enacted as follows :
Sub-section one of clause twenty.five of the principal A.ct ia 
hereby repealed, and instead thereof the following enactment shall take effect ;(1) (th&t is to say,) in the admini.a- 
tration by the Court of the aaseta of any penon who may
die after the commencement of this Act, and whose estate
may prove to be insufficient for the payment in full of his
debts and liabilities, a.ud in the winding up of any company under the Companies Acta, 1862 and 1867, whose
asset& ma.y prove to be insufficient for the payment of
it& debts and liabilities and the costs of winding up, the
same rules shall prenil and be observed aa to the respeotin rights of secured and unsecured creditors, and as 
to debts and liabilities provable, and a.a to the valuation
of annuities and future, and contingent liabilities respectively, a.a may be in force for the time being under the
Law of Bankruptcy with respect to the estates of persons
adjudged bankrupt; and all persons who in any such case
would be entitled to prove for and receive dividends out of
the estate of any such deoeaaed person, or out of the
asset& of any such company, may come in under the
decree or order for the administration of such estate, or
under the winding up of such company, and make auch
claims against the aame a.a they may respectively be
entitled to by virtue of this Act. 
In sub-section seven of the said section the reference to the 
date of the passing of the principal Act shall be deemed to 
refer ~ the date of the commencement of the principal Act.
11. Prwino-n. as to O'ption. for a.n.y plaiintiff (aubject to rule,) 
to choose i11. what divisi011. he will ,ue,-ffl ,ub,titution. j<W 36 
4' 37 Viet. e. 66, s. 35.-Subject to any rules of Court and to 
the provisions of the principal Act, and this Act, and to the
power of transfer, fJ'lery person by whom any cause or matter 
may be oommenoed in the said High Court of Justice shall
assign suoh cause or matt.er t.o one of the divisions of the said
High Court as he may think flt, by marking the document by
which the same is oommenoed with the D&JDe of such division,
and giving notice thereof to the proper oBloer of the court : 
Provided that- 
(1.) All interlocutory and other steps and proceedinga in or
before the said ffigh Court in any cause or matter
subsequent t.o the oommenoement thereof, aha.ll be
taken (subject to any rulee of Court and to the power
of transfer) in the division of the aai_d ffigh Court to 
which suoh cause or matter is for the time being
attached ; and, 
(2.) If any plaintifff or petitioner ahal1 a.t a.ny time &BBign his
cause or matter to any division of the aaid ffigh Court 
to which, according t.o the rules of Court or the provisions of the principal Aot or this Aot, the a.me
ought not to be assigned, the Court, or a.ny Judge of
such division, upon being informed thereof, may, on a
summary application at any st.age of the cause or 
matter, direct the same to be transferred to the
division of the said Court to which, a.coording t.o such
rules or provisions, the same ought to have been
assigned, or he may, if he think it expedient BO to do,
retain the same in the division in which the same was
commenced ; and aJl steps and proceeding& what.soever
taken by the pla.intiff or petitioner, or by any other
party in a.ny such ca.use or matter, and all orders made
therein by the Court or any judge thereof before a.ny
such tmnafer shall be valid a.nd effectual t.o all intents
and purposes in the same manner as if the same re&
pectively had been taken a.nd made in the proper
division of the said Court t.o which such ca.use or
matter ought to have been assigned; and 
(3.) Subject to rules of Court, a person commencing
a.ny cause or matter shall not assign the same to the
Probate, Divorce, a.nd Admiralty Division unless he 
would have been entitled t.o oommenoe the same in the 
Court of Probate, or in the Court for DiToroe and
Matrimonial Causes, or in the High Court of Admiralty,
if this Act had not puaed. 
12. Sittingof Court of .AppeaZ.-E\'91'1 appeal to the
Court of Appeal aball, where the 1ubject-matter of the appeal
ia a final order, decree, or judgment, be heard before not 1111 
than three judges of the laid Court sitting together, ud sbalJ,
when the subject matter of the appeal ia an interlocutory
order, decree, or judgment, be heard before not leu than two
judges of the said Court sitting together. 
Any doubt which may arise ae to what decrees, orders, or
judgments are final, and what are interlocutory, shall be deter
mined by the Court of Appeal.
Subject to the provisions contained in this section, the Court 
of Appeal may ait in two divisions at the eame time.
13 . .Amendment of . 60 of 36 4' 37 Viet. e. 66, a., to di,ttict 
ngi.nraf'1.-Whereaa by 1ection sixty of the principal Act it ii
provided that for the purpose of facilitating the proeeoution in
oountry districts of legal prooeedinge, it ahall be lawfnl for Her 
Majesty by order in council from time to time to direct that
there shall be district registrars in such places ae ahall be in
such order mentioned for district. to be thereby deftned ;() 
and whereas it is e%pedient to a.mend the said section, be it
thereforee enacted that.- 
Where any such order bas been made, two persona may, if
required, be appointed to perform the dutie1 of district 
registrar in any district named in the order, a.nd such persona
shall be deemed to be joint district regiatra.ra, a.nd shall perform the said duties in such manner as may from time to time
be directed by the said order, or_any order in oomicil amending
the aa.me. 
Moreover the registrar of any inferior oourt of record having
jurisdiction in any part of any district defined by such order
(other than a county oourt) shall, if appointed by Her :Majesty,
be qualified to be a district regiatra.r for the said district or
for a.ny and snob part thereof a.a may be directed by 1uoh
order or any order a.mending the same. 
Every district regiatmr shall be deemed to be an officer of
the Supreme Court, and be subject accordingly to the juria.
diction of such Court, and of the divisions thereof. 
14. .Anumdment o/ 36 4' 87 Viet. e, 66, ,. 87, a, to tnaetment, 
relating to a.ttomey,.-Wberea.a under section eigbtyseveu of
the principal Act, solicitors and attorneys will after the oommenoement of that Act be called solicitors of the Supreme
Court : Be it thereforee enacted that- 
The registrar of attorneys and solicitor& in England shall be 
called the registrar of solicit.ors, and the Lord Chief J usti0'9 of
England, the Master of the Rolle, the Lord Chief Justice of tho
Court of Common Plea.a, &nd the Lord Chief Baron, or any two
of them, may, from time to time, by regulation adapt any
enactments relating to attorneys, and any declaration, certiJi.
cate, or form required under those enactments, to the solicit.on 
of the Supreme Court under eection eighty-1even of the
principal Act. 
15. Appeal from inferior court of record.-It eh.U be lawful
for Her Majesty from time t.o time, by order in council, t.o 
direct that the enactment.s relating t.o appeals from county
eonrte shall apply to any other inferior court of record ; and
those enactments, subject t.o any exceptions, conditions, and
limitations contained in the order, shall apply aocordingly, as
from the date mentioned in the order. 
16. Rules in fir,t 1chedule in substitution for 36 4' 37 Viet.
c. 66, ,. 69, and schedule.-The rules of court in the l'ir8t 
Schedule t.o this Act shall come int.o operation a.t the commencement of this Act, and as to .U matters to which they
extend ahall thenceforth regulate the prooeeedinga in the High
Court of Justice and Court of Appeal. But such rules of
Court, and also all such other rules of Court (if any) as may be
made after the passing and before the commencement of thia
Act under the authority of the next section, may be annulled
or altered by the authority by which new rules of Court
may be made after the commencement of this Act. 
17. Proviswn as to making, 4"c., of rules of Court bef01'6 Of' 
ajter the commencement of the Act,-in sub1titution /<YI' 36 4' 
87 Viet. c. 66, ss. 68, 69, 74, and sch.-Her Ma.jeetymay at any
time after the pa.seing and before the commencement of this
Act, by order in council, made upon the recommendation of the
Lord Chancellor, and the Lord Chief Justice of England, the
Master of the Rolle, tho Lord Chief Justice of tho Common 
Pleas, the Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, a.nd the Lords
Justices of Appeal in Chancery, or any five of them, and the
other judges of the several Conrte intended to be united and 
consolidated by tho principal Act BS amended by this Act, or of
a. ma.jority of such othor judgoi:1, make any farther or 
additional rulea of Court for carrying the principal Acti and
this Aot into effect, and in particular for all or any of the
following mattera, so fa.r aa they are not provided for by the
rules in the first schedule to this Act ; that is to say, 
(1.) For regulating the Bittinp of the High Court of
J ustioe a.nd the, Court of Appeal, a.nd of any Divisional
or other oourts thereof respectively, and of the Judges
of the said High Court sitting in Chambers ; a.nd 
(2.) For regulating the pleading, practice, a.nd procedure in
the High Court of Justioe and Court of Appeal; a.nd 
(S.) Generally, for regulating any matter& relating to the
practioe a.nd procedure of the said courta reapectiTely 
or to the duties of the oflioera thereof, or of the
Supreme Court, or to the ooata of proceedinga therein. 
In rub,titutionjOf' 36 4' 37 Viet. c. 66, ,. 74.-From a.nd a.fm
the commenoement of this Act, the Supreme Court may at any 
time, with the OODOurrenoe of a majority of the judgea thereof
present at any meeting for that purpoee held (of which
majority the Lord Chanoellor shall be one), alter and annul any
rulea of oourt for the time being in foroe, and have a.nd
exeroiae the s&me power of making rulea of oourt as is by this
section veeted in Her Ma.jeaty in Council on the reoommenda.tion of the said judges before the commencement of thia Act. 
All ruloa of court ma.de in purauance of this section shall be
la.id before each House of Parliament within such time, and
shall be subject to be annulled in the aame manner, ae is in this 
Act provided.
All rules of oourt made in puraua.nce of - this section, if 
ma.de before the commencement of this Act, shall from a.nd
after the commencement of this Act, and if ma.de after the 
commencement of this Act shall from and after they come into 
operation, regula.te all matters to which they extend, until 
annulled or a.ltered in pursuance of this section.
The reference to oert.ain judges in aection twentyaeven of 
tho principal Act ehall bo deemed to refer to the judges mentioned in this aeotion a.s the judges on whoae recommenda.tion 
. an order in council may be made.
li. Prwuion cu to "'la of Probo.t., Div<>tU, a,i.d Admircutv 
I 
Court,, being rula of th.8 High Courl,--ffl mb,tituti<m f<W 36 
4' 37 Yict. c. 66, ,. 70.-All roles and ordere of court in force
at the time of the commencement of this .A.ct in the Court of
Probate, the Court for Divoroe and Matrimonial Causes, and
the .A.dmiralt.y Court, or in relation to appeals from the Chief
Judge in Bankruptcy, or from the Court of Appeal in Chancery
in bankruptcy matt.era, except so far as they are expressly
varied by the First Schedule hereto, or by roles of court made
by order in council before the oommenoement of this .A.ct, shall
remain and be in force in the High Court of Justice and in the 
Court of Appeal respectively until they ehall respectively be
altered or imnulled by &ny rules of Court made after the com
mencement of thia Act.
The present judge of the Probate Court and of the Court for 
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes shall retain, and the president
for the time being of the Probate and Divorce dirision of the
High Court of Justice aball have, with regard to non-contentious or common form business in the Probate Court, the 
powers now oonf erred on the judge of the Probate Court by
tho thirtieth section of the twentieth and twenty.first years of
Victoria, chapter aeventy-eeven, and the eaid judge ahall ret&in,
and tho ae.id preeident shall have, the powers as to the ~king 
of rules and regula.tione conferred by the fifty.third section of
the twentieth and twenty-first years of Victoria, chapter 
eighty.five.
10. Provision a., to criminal procedure, s-ubject to future rule,. 
remaining una.ltered,-i'R ,ubstitution for 36 4' 37 Viet. e, 66,
,. 71.-Subjeot to the first schedule hereto and any rules of 
court to be made under this Act, the practice and procedure in
all criminal causes and matters whatsoever in the High Court
of Justice and in the Court of Appeal respectively, including
the practice and procedure with respect to Crown cuee re
served, shall be the same ae the practice and procedure in
eimilar causes and matters before the commencement of this
.A.ct. 
20. Prt)Vi8io-n a, to Act not affecting rules of evidence or juries,
-in substitution f<W 36 4' 37 Viet. e. 66, s. 72.-Nothing in this
Act or in the Fimt Schedule hereto, or in any rules of Court 
to be made under this Act, save ae far ae relates to the power
of the court for special reasona to allow depoeitiona or
affidavits to be read, shall affect the mode of giving evidence
by the oral examination of witnesses in trials by jury, or the
rules of evidence, or the law relating to jurymen or juries. 
21. Prouirion for ,aving of e:risting proceduN of court, whffl 
not inconsi..9tent with thia .Act or rule, of court,--in IUb,titution for 36 4' 37 Viet. e. 66, ,. 73.-Save ae by the principal 
Act or this Aot, or by any rules of oourt, may be otherwise
provided, all forms and methode of procedure which at the
commencement of this Act were in force in any of the courts
whose jurisdiction is by the principal Aot or thia Act trans
ferred to the said High Court and to the said Court of Appeal
respectively, under or by virtue of any law, custom, general
order, or rules whatsoever, and whi~b are not inconsistent
with the principal Act or this Act or with any rules of oourt,
may continue to be used and practised, in the said High Court
of Justice and the said Court of Appeal respectively, in moh
and the like oases, and for such and the like purpoaes, ae thoae 
to which they would have been applicable in the respective
courts of which the jurisdiction is so transferred, if the principal Act and this Act bad not passed. 
22. NotMng in principal .Act to prejudice right to hav6"issue.s
submitted, .f'c.-Wbereas by section forty-six of the principal 
Act it is enacted that " any judge of tho said High Court
sitting in the exercise of ital jurisdiction elsewhere than in a 
divisional court may reserve any case, or any point in a oaae,
for the consideration of a diTiaional court, or may direct any
oaae or point in a. case to be argued before a divisional oourt" :
Be it hereby enacted, that nothing in the said Act, nor in any
rule or order made under the powers thereof or of this Act, 
shall take away or prejudice the right of any party to any 
action to havo the issues for trial by jury submitted and left
by the judge to the jury before whom the same shall come for
trial, with a proper and complete direction to the jury upon
the law, and as to the evidence applicable to such issues : 
Provided also, that the said right may be enforced either by
motion in the High Court of Justice or by motion in tho Court 
of Appeal founded upon an exception entered upon or imnexed
to the record.(') 
23. R.egulation of circuits.-Hcr Majesty may at a.ny time
after the pa.88ing of thia Aot, and from timo to time, by order
in council, provide in such manner and subject to such regulations as to Her Majesty may seem meet, for all or any of the
following matters : 
1. For the discontinuance, either temporarily or permanently, wholly or partially, of any existing circuit, and
the formation of any new circuit by tho union of any
counties or parts of counties, or partly in one way and
partly in the other, or by the constitution of any county
or part of a county to be a circuit by itself ; and in
partictilar for the isstle of commissions for the discharge of civil and criminal bnsineae in the county of
Surrey to the judges appointed to sit for the trial by 
jury of causes and issues in Middlesex or London or
any of them ; and, 
2. For the appointment of the place or places at which
assizes are to be holden on any circuit ; and, 
3. For altering ~ such authority and in such manner as
may be specified in the order, the day appointed for
holding the assizes at a.ny place on any circuit in any
case, where, by reason of the pressure of business or
other unforeseen cause, it is expedient to alter the 
same; and,
4. For the regulation, so far as may be necessary for carrying 
into effect any order under this section, of the venue in 
all C&88'1, eivil and criminal, triable on any circuit or
el1ewheN!. 
Her Majesty may from time to time, by order in council,
alter, add to, or amend any order in council ma.de in pnrsusnoe
of thi8 section ; and in making any order under this BOOtion 
may give any directions which it appears to Her Majesty to
be desirable to give for the purpose of giving full effect to such
order. 
Provided that every order in council made under this section
shall be laid before each Honse of Parliament within such time,
and shall be subject to be annulled in such manner a.a is in thia
Act provided. 
Any order in council purporting to be made in pnrsuanoe of
thia section shall have the same effect in all respects &a if it
were enacted in this Act. 
The power hereby given to Her Majesty shall be deemed to
be in addition to and not in derogation of any power already
vested in Her Majesty in respect of the matters aforesaid ; and
all enactments in relation to circuits, or the places at which
aasizes are to be holden, or otherwise in relation to the subject-matter of any order under this section, shall, so far as
such enactments are inconsistent with such order, be repealed
thereby, whether such repeal is thereby expreBSly made or not ;
but all enactments relating to the power of Her Majesty to
alter the circuits of the judges, or places at which aasu.es are
to be holden, or the distribution of revising barristers among
the circuits, or otherwise enabling or facilitating the carrying
tho objects of this section into effect, and in force at the time 
of the passing of the principal Act, shall oontinue in force, and
shall, with the necesea.ry variations, if any, apply, so far as
they are applicable, to any alteration in or dealings with
circuits, or places at which aasizes are to be holden, made or
to be made e.f ter the passing of this Act, or to any other provisions of any order made under this section ; and if any such
order is made for tho issue of commissions for tho discharge of
civil and criminal business in the county of Surrey a.s before
mentioned in thia section, that oounty shall for the purpose of
the application of the said enactments be deemed to be a cir- 
cuit, a.nd the senior judgo for the time being so commissioned,
or such other judge as may be for the time being designated
for that purpose by order in council, shall, in the month of
July or August in every year, appoint the revising barristers
for that county and the cities and boroughs therein. 
The expression " assizes " sh&ll in this section be construed 
to include sessions under a.ny commission of oyer and terminer,
or gaol deliTery, or a.t1y commission in lieu thereof issued under
the principal Act. 
24 . .Additional p<>wer a, to regulaticm of practice and proce<lure by rulu of Court.-Wbere a.ny proTisions in respect of
the practice or procedure of an7 Court.B the jurisdiction of
which is tra.nsforred by the principal Act or this Act to the
High Court of Justice or the Court of Appeal, are contained in
any Act of Pa.rliament, rules of Court may bo made for modifying such provisions to any extent that may be deemed 
neceBSary for adapting the same to the High Court of Justice
and the Court of Appeal, without prejudice neverthelese to any
power of the Lord Chancellor, with the concurrence of the 
Treasury, to ma.ke any rules with respect to the Payma11terGeneral, or otherwise. 
Any provisions relating to the payment, transfer, or deposit
into, or in, or out of any Court of any money or property,
or to the dealing therewith, shall, for the purposes of this
section, be deemed to be provisions relating to practice and
procedure. 
The Lord Chancellor, with the concurrence of the Treuury,
may from time to time, by order, determine to what accounts 
and bow intituled any such money or property a.ff last aforesaid, whether paid, transferred, or deposited before or after 
the commencement of this Act, is to be carried, and modify all
or a.ny forms relating to such accounts ; a.nd the Governor and
Company of the Bank of England, and all other companies,
bodies corporate, and persons, shall make such entries and
alterations in their books a.e may be directed by the Lord
Cha.ncellor, with the concurrence of the Treasury, for the 
purpose of carrying into offect any such order.
25. Orders and Rn1es to be laid beforParliament, anei may 
be annuluul on address from either Howe.-ivery order in
council and rule of court required by this Act to be laid
before each House of Parliament shall be so laid within forty
days ne:s:t after it is made, if Parliament is then sitting, or if
not, within forty days after the commencement of the then
next ensuing session ; and if an address is presented to Her 
Majesty by either Home of Parliament, within the next subeequent forty days on which the ea.id House aha.11 have eat,
praying that any roch rule or order may be annulled, Her
Majesty may thereupon by order in council annul the same ;
and tho rule or order so annulled shall thenceforth become
void and of no effect, but without prejudice to the validity of
any proceedings which may in the meantime have been taken 
under tho same.
Thia section shall come into operation immediately on the 
passing of this Act.
26. Fizifl{J and collection of fees in High Cou,rt and Court of 
..4.ppeal.-The Lord Chancellor, with the advice and consent of
the judges of the Supreme Court or any three of them, and
with the concurrence of the Treasury, may, either before or
after the commencement of this Act, by order, fix the fees and
per-centages (including the per-centage on estates of lunatics} 
to be taken in the High Court of Justice or in the Court of
Appeal, or in any court created by any commission or in any 
office which is connected with any of those courts, or in which
any business connected lrith any of those courts is oonduoted,
or by any officer pa.id wholly or partly out of public monies
who is attached to any of those courts or the Supreme Court,
or any judge of those courts, including the masters and other 
officers in lunacy, and may from time to time by order increasej
reduce, or abolish all or any of such fees and per-centagea, and
appoint new fees and per-cent.ages to be taken in the said
courts or offices or a.ny of them, or by any such officer a.e aforesaid. 
Any order ma.de in pursuance of this section shall be binding
on all the courts, offices, and officers to which it refers, in the 
same manner a.a if it had been enacted by Parliament.
All such fees and per-centegee shall (sa.ve &1:1 otherwise 
directed by the order) be pa.id into the receipt of Her Majeaty'a
Exchequer and be carried to the Consolidated Fund, and with
respect thereto the following rules aha1l be observed : 
(1.) The fees and per.aent.agea shall, except so far u the
order may o~erwise direct, be ta.ken by et&mpa, and
if not ta.ken by atampa shall be ta.ken, applied,
accounted for, and paid over in suob manner as may
be directed by the order. 
(2.) Such stamps shall be impressed or adhesive, a.a the
Treasury from time to time direot. 
(8.) The Trea.mry, with the concurrence of the Lord Cha.n.
cellor, may from time to time make 1ucb rules a.a may
seem flt for publishing the amount of the fees and
regulating the use of such at.amps, and particula.rly
for prescribing the application thereof to documents
from time to time in use or required to be used for
the purpoaea of such at.amps and for insuring the
proper cancellation of stamps, and for keeping accounts
of such et.amps. 
4.) Any document which ought to bear a ate.mp in pursuance of thia Act, or any rule or order made thereunder, shall not be received, filed, used, or admitted
in evidence unleas a.nd until it is properly stamped,
within the time prescribed by the rules under thia
section regulating the use of stamps, but if any such
document is through mistake or inadvertence received,
filed, or used without being properly stamped,
tho Lord Chancellor or the court may, if he or it
shall think fit, order that the ume be stamped as in
such order may be directed. 
(5.) The Commissioners of Inland Revenue shall keep such
separate accounts of all money received in respect of
stamps under this Act as the Treasury may from
time to time direct, and, subject to the deduction of 
any expenses incurred by those Commisaioners in the
execution of this section, the money so received shall,
under the direction of the Treasury, be carried to and
form part of the Consolidated Fund. 
(6.) Any person who forge1 or oount.erfeita any such ata.mp,
or uses any such stamp, knowing the aa.me to be
forged or count.erfeit, or to have been previously can.
celled or used, eba.11 be guilty of forpry, and be
liable on conviction to penal servitude for a t.erm not
exceeding 1even yean, or to imprisonment with or
without hard labour for a term not exoeeding two years. 
27. Provuiona a., to Lanca,ter Fe6 Fund, and ,alanu, 4"c.
of offecers of court. at La.nca,ter and Durham (32 4" 83 Viet. e.
37).-Wbereaa by the Common Pleas at Lanoaeter Amendment Act, 1869, the feea taken by the prothonotariea and
districtprothonotariee in purauanoe of that Aot, are directed to be carried to the credit of " the prothonotariee fee fund a.ccount of the oounty palatine of Lanoaster,"
and oert.ain aalaries and expenaes oonnected with the ofBoea
of the said prothonotariee and district prothonotarieB are
directed to be pa.id out of. that aooowit : 
And whereas, on the twenty.fourth day of June, one thou.
sand eight hundred and seventy.four, there waa standing to 
the credit of that aooount a sum of ten thoueand seven hundred
and fifty.five pounds ooneolidated three pounds per oentum 
bank annuities and one thousand eight hundred &nd ten pounds
cash, or thereabouts : 
And whereas the fees received in the Court of Plea.a of
Durham a.re applied in payment of disbursements connected
with the ofBco of the prothonotary of that court, and any 
surplus of such fees is pa.id into the receipt of Her Majesty's
Exchoquer, and any deficiency of the amount of the sa.id fees 
to pay such disbursements ia charged on the Consolidated
Fund of the United Kingdom. 
And whereas after the commencement of the principal Act,
the jurisdiction of tho Court of Common Pleas_ at Lancaster 
and the Court of Pleaa at Durham is by that Act transferred to 
and vested in the High Court of J ustioo, a.nd it is expedient 
to make further provision respecting the expenses of those
courts, and the said stock and cash standing to the credit of the
prothonotariea fee fund ~count of the oo~ty palatuie of Lq. 
caster: 
Be it thereforee enacted that,- 
After the commencement of the principal Aot there shall be
paid out of monies provided by Parliament such sums by way 
of s&la.ry or remuneration to the prothonotariee and district
prothonotaries of the Court of Common Pleas at l.Ancaster and
the Court of Common Pleas at Durham and their clerks, and
such sums for rent, taxes, and other outgoings at their offices,
aa the Lord Chancellor, with the concurrence of the Treasury,
may from time to time direct. 
As soon as ea.oh prothonotary and district prothonotary of
the Court of Common Pleas at La.ncaster hu aooounted for and
paid all f eea and monies which he shall have received by virtue
of his said office, the Chancellor of the Duchy of La.ncast.er shall
ca.nae any security given by such officer in puraua.noe of section seventeen of the Common Pleas at La.noa.ater Amendment
Act, 1869, to be cancelled, and delivered up, or otherwise dis-. 
charged. 
As soon as may be after the commencement of the principal
Act the Treasury and the Chanoellor of the Duchy and county 
palatine of Lancaster shall ascertain the a.mount of stock and
ca.sh standing to the credit of the prothonotaries fee fund
account of the oounty pa.la.tine of La.neuter, after paying thereout to the !eoeiver general of the revenues of the Duchy of
La.n6aster the a.mount of the fees remaining in the prothonotary's hands on the twenty-fourth day of October one thousand
eight hundred and sixty-nine,.a.nd paid to that a.ocount in pursuance of section seventeen of the last-mentioned Act, and all
other SlUD8 justly due to Her Majesty in right of her said duchy
and county palatine ; a.nd the Treasury shall by warrant direct
the Governor and Company of tho Bank of England to transfer
to the Commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt 
the amount of stock and cash so ascertained, and either to 
cancel the stock in their books or otherwise dispo;e of the same
as may be directed by the warra.nt ; and the governor and company of the Bank of England shall tmnsfer the stock and cash,
a.nd cancel or otherwise dispose of the stock according to the
warrant, without any order from the Lord Chancellor or the Chancellor of the said duchy and county palatine or any other person. 
The Commissioners for the reduction of the National Debt
'shall apply all 0&8h transferred to them in pursuance of this 
section in the purchase of bank annuities which shall be cancelled or otherwise disposed of in like ma.nner ae the said st.ook. 
28. Annual account of fees and ~diture.-The Treaslll'Y 
shall cause to be pre pa.red a.nnually au account for tho year
ending the thirty-first day of March, showing the receipts 
. and expenditure during the preceding year in respect of tho
High Court of Justice and tho Court of Appeal, and of any
court, office, or officer, the fees ta.ken in which or by wliom can 
be tlxed in pursuance of this Act.
Such account shall be made out in such form and contain 
such particul&ra as the Treasury, with the concurrence of the
Lord Chancellor, may from time to time direct. 
Every officer by whom or in whose office fees are taken which
oan be tlxed in pursuance of this Act, shall mate such return& 
a.nd give suoh information aa the Treasury may from time to 
time require for the purpose of enabliDg them to make out the
said account. 
The said account shall be laid before both Houses of P&rliament within one month after the thirty.first day of March in 
each year, if Parliament is then sitting, or if not, then within
one month after the next meeting of Parliament. 
29 .Amendment of law a., to payment, to 1enior pu.iane Judge
of Queen', Bench a-nd Queen's coro-ner.-Whereaa fines a.nd other
monies paid into the Court of Queen's Bench for Her Majesty's
use are received by the Queen's coroner a.nd attorney, a.nd out
of such monies there is paid in pursue.nee of a writ of privy seal 
a.n annual sum of forty pounds, at the rate of ten pounds for
every term, to the second judge of the Court of Queen's Bench, 
a.nd by section seven of the Act of the si.xtll year of King George
the Fourth, ehapter eighty.four, it is enacted that the said
termly allowance of ten pounds shall continue to be paid to the
said second judge in addition to his sala.ry : 
And wheroa.e out of the said monies there is also payable in
pursuance of the said writ of privy seal an annual sum of ten 
pounds to the Queen's coroner and attorney:
And whereas it is expedient to determine such payments; 
Be it thereforee enacted as follows:
After the passing of this Act the said sums of forty pounds 
and ten pounds a yea.r shall ceaae to be payable by the Queen's
coroner and attorney out of the above-mentioned monies. 
So long as the person who on the first day of March, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, was the second judge
of the Court of Queen's Bench continues to be such second
judge, there shall be payable to him out of the Consolidated
Fund of the United Kingdom the annual aum of forty pounds
in addition to hia salary, and that annual sum shall be payable
to him by instalments of ten pounds, at the like times at which
the said termly allowance of ten pounds baa heretofore been
payable to him, or at euch other times ae the Treasury, with
the consent of the judge, may direct. 
So long ae the person who on the first day of March, one
thousand eight hundred and seventy-five, was the Queen's
coroner and attorney continues to hold that office, there shall
be payable to him out of monies provided by Parliament the
sanual sum of ten pounds, and such sum shall be pa.ya.hie to
him at the like time at which the said annual sum of ten pounds
has heretofore boon payable to him, or a.t such other time a.a the
Treasury, with the consent of such Q!-leen's coroner or attorney,
may direct. 
30 - .Amendment of 35 4" 36 Viet. c. "4, as to the transfer of
Government securities to and from the Paymaster-Gtmeral on 
behalf of the Court of Chancery and the National Debt Comm;:
si01161's.-Wherea.s by section sixteen of "The Court of Chan
cery Funds Act, 1872," it is enacted that an order of the Court
of Cha.noery may direct securities standing to the account of 
the Paymaster-General on beha.lf of the Court of Chancery to 
be converted into ca.sh, a.nd that where such order refers to 
Government securities such securities sha.11 be transferred to
the CommiBsioners for the Reduction of the NationalDebt in
manner therein mentioned : 
And wherea.a the said section contains no provision for the
converse cases of the conversion of ca.sh into securities and the
tra.nsf er of securities from the said Commissioners to the a.ooount
of the Paymaster-Genera.I on behalf of the Court of Chancery : 
And whereas such oonveraiou and tra.nafer, and the other
matters provided by the Baid section, can be more oonveniently
provided for by rules made in pursuance of eeotion eighteen of 
the B&id Act ; and it iB expedient to remove doubts with respect
to the power to provide by such rules for the investment in
securities of money in ooart, and the oonveraion into money of 
a~urities in court :
Be it thereforee enacted a.a follows :
Section sixteen of " The Court of Chanoery Funds Act, 
1872," iB hereby repealed.
Rules may from time to time be made in pursuance of section 
eighteen of "The Court of Chanoery Funda Act, 1872," with
respect to the investment in aeourities of money in court, and
the conversion into money of securities in court, and with
respect to the transfer to the Commis,ionera for the Reduction
of the National Debt of Government securities ordered by the 
Court to be sold or converted into cash, and to the tra.naf er by
thoee Commissioners to the Pa.yma.ster.General for the time 
being, on behalf of the Court of Chancery, of Government
securities ordered by the Court of Cha.noery to be purchased. 
This section shall come into operation on the pa.asing of thiB
Act, and aha.11 (be construed together with the Court of
Chancery Funds Act, 1872, and shall be subject to any 
alteration in that Act made by or in pursuance of the principal
Act or this Act. 
31 .Abolition of secretary to tM witor, of lunaticl, 16 f 17
Viet. r, 70,,. 22-22 Viet. c. 26.-Wherea.a under the Lunacy Regu.
la.tion Act, 1853, it ia provided that there shall be a. BOOreta.ry
to the visitors of lunatiCB therein mentioned, and it is expedient to abolish that office : Be it thereforee enacted a.a follows : 
After the pa.ssing of this Act there shall oea.se to be a secretary to the visitors of lunatics. 
The Treasury shall a.ward, out of monies provided by Pa.rli&ment, to the person who holds a.t the paaBing of this Act t1ie
office of secretary to the visitors of luna.~cs such compensation,
by way of annuity or otherwise, aa, having regard to the conditions on which he wa.a appointed to his office, the nature,
salary, and emoluments of his office, and the duration of hie 
services, they may think just and reasonable, ao that the u.m.e
be granted in acoordanoe with the provisions and subject to
the conditions contained in the Superannuation Act, 1859. 
32 . .Amendment of 32 .j' 33 Viet. c. 83, s. 19, and 32 4' 33
Viet. c. 71, s, 116, a.a to paymfflt of unclaimed d,ividenda to 
persona entitled.-32 4' 33 Viet. c. 71.-32 4' 33 Viet. cc. 83,
71.-Whereas by section nineteen of the Bankruptcy Repeal 
and Insolvent Court Act, 1869, it is enacted as follows : "All
dividends declared in any court acting under the Acta relating 
to bankruptcy or the felief of insolvent debtors which remain
unclaimed for five yea.rs a.ft.er the commencement of this Act, if
declared before that commenoement, and for five yea.rs a.fter the
deoln.ration of the dividends if declared a.fter the commencement
of this Act, and all undivided surpluaes of estates administered
under the jurisdiction of such court which remain undivided
for five years a.fter the declaration of a final dividend in the
case of bankruptcy, or for five ye&rB after the close of an insolvency under this Act, shall be deemed vested in the Crown,
and shall be disposed of as the Commissioners of Her Majesty's
Treuury direct ; provided that at any time after such vesting
the Lord Chancellor may, if he thinks fit, by reason of the
disability or absence beyond seas of the person entitled to the
sum BO vested, or for any other reason appea,ring to him suffl.
cient, direct that the sum so vested shall be repaid out of 
monies provided by Parliament, and shall be distributed aa it
would have been if there had been no such vesting " : 
And whereas a similar enactment with respect to unclaimed
dividends in bankruptcy was made by section one hundred and
sixteen of the Bankruptcy Act, 1869 : 
And wheree.s it is expedient to give to persons entitled to any
such unclaimed dividends or other sums greater facilities for 
obtaining the same : Be it thereforee enacted as foHows :
Any Court having jurisdiction in the matter of any ba.nk
ruptoy or insolvency, upon being satisfied that a.ny person
claiming is entitled to a.ny dividend or other payment out of the
monies vested in the Crown in pursuance of section nineteen
of the Bankruptcy Repeal and Insolvent Court Act, 1869,
or of section one hundred and sixteen of the Bankruptcy 
Act, 1869, may Ol'der pa,ment of the same in like manner u
it might have done if the R1De bad not by reaaon of the expiration of flve years become Teat.eel in the Crown in ptll'8uance of 
the eaid eectiona.
This seetion shall take effect u from the pll88ing of tbill Act. 
83. ~.-From and aftm the commencement of this Act
there shall be repealed- 
(1.) The Acte specified in the aecond schedule to this Act, 
to the extent in the t.bird column of that IIChedule
mentioned, without prejudice to anything done or
suffered before the u.id commencement under the
enactment.a hereby repealed ; also, 
(2.) A:JJ.y other enactment inoonsist.ent with thie Act or the
principal Act. 
M. A, to t7aCanciu in a.ny office toitMn ,. 77 of pnttcipal Act.
-Whereas, by the 1eventy-88Tenth eection of the principal Act,
it is provided that, upon the ooounence of a vacancy in the
office of any officer coming within the provisions of the said
section, the Lord Chancellor, with the conourrence of the 
Treasury, may, in the event of such office being considered
unneceBBaJy, abolish the eame, or may reduce the salary, or
alter the deeignation or duties thereof, notwithstanding that the
patronage thereof may be veeted in an existing Judge; but that 
nothing in the Mid Act contained shall interfere with the office
of manbal attending any commia1ioner of &BSize : A:JJ.d whereas 
it ia expedient to add to the l&id eection : Be it enacted, tha.t,
upon the occurrence of any vaoancy coming within the pro
naions of the said section. an appointment shall not be made
thereto for the period of one month without the aasent of the 
Lord Chancellor, given with the concurrence of the Treasury;
and further, the Lord Chancellor may with the concurrence of
the Treasury suspend the making any appointment to such
office for any period not later than the fi.rat day of January,
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven, and may, if it 
be necessary, make provision in auoh manner as be thinks flt
for the temporary discharge, in the meantime, of the duties of
such office. 
35. A~ment of prindpat Act,,. 79, aa to chambff clffk.s. 
-Be it enacted, that any person who, at the time of the eommencement of tbie Act, shall hold the office of chamber clerk 
shall be eligible at any time thereafter for appointment to the
like offioe, anything in the principal Act to the contraey notwithstanding ; and that, if any such person ahall be ao ap.
pointed after the commencement of this Act, he shall, if the
salary usigned to such office by or under the principal Act be 
leu than the salary received by him at the time of the com.
menoement of thi8 Act, be entitled to receive a salary not leu
than that eo formerly reoeived by him, ao long u he shall
retain such oflloe, but aha.11 not be entitled to receive or claim
any pen.aion in respect of hia service, UDleu the Treuury, in 
ita abaolute di.acretion, shall think It to BaDotion the same. 
FIBST SCHEDULE. 
[Note.-WAere "otMr prOIMWII ia made", tM .dctor tRt,la tA, 
RULl8 ov OouBT, 
p,'Utnt procea.,re and JIN!Clice 1'ffllOIII in force.] 
ORDER L 
FoBK A1'l> OoKKENCEKBNT OF ACTIOK, 
1. All actions which have hitherto been commenced by writ in 
the Superior Court.a of Common Law at Westminster, or in the 
Court of Common Pleas at Lancaat.er, or in the Court of Pleas at
Durham, and all suhs which have hitherto been commenced by bill
or information in the High Court of Chancery, or by a cauae in
rem or in per,on4m in tho High Court of Admiralty, or by citation
or otherwise in the Court of Probste, shall be instituted in the High
Court of Justice by a proceeding to be called an action. 
2. With respect to iuterpleader, tbs procedure and practice now
used by Courts of Common Law nuder the lnterpleader Acta
1 & 2 Will. 4, c, 68, and 23 & 24 Viet. e, 1:l6, sh.ti apply to all 
actions and all the divisions of the High Court of Justice, and the
application by a defeudant shal! be made at any time after being
served with a writ of summons and before delivering 11. defense. 
8. All other proceedings in and applications to tbe High Court
may, subject lo these rules, be taken and made in the same manner
as they would have been taken and made in any Court in which
any proceeding or application of t.be like kind could have been
taken or made if the Aot had not. been paaeed. 
ORDER IL 
WBIT OF 8U)l)(Olf8 Al'fD PBOCJIDURB, &o.
1. Every action in the High Court shall be commenced by fa 
writ of summon, which shall bo indorsed with a statement of the 
nature of the claim made, or of the relief or remedy required in
thi::t action, and which &hall specify the division of the High
Court to which it is intended that the action should be assigned. 
2. Any coe&a occaaioned by the use of any more prolix or other
forms of writ.a, and of indorsemen&a thereon, than the forms
hereinafter prescribed, shall be borne by the party using the same, 
1llWIM the court shall otherwiee direct.. 
3. The writ of summons for the commencement. of an act.ion
ah&ll, except in the cues io which any different. form ia herein
after provided, be in Form No. 1 in Part L of Appendix (A)
here~! with such nriationa aa circumat.&Dcee ma1 require, 
4. !'Co writ of aummona for eerviee oat. of t.he Jurisdiction, or of
which notice ia to be given out of the jurisdiction, shall be issued 
without the leave of a court or judge.
6. A writ of aummons to be served out. of the juriadicUon, or 
of which notice is to be given out of the jurisdiction, shall be in
Form No. 2 in Part L of Appendix (A) hereto, with "uch variations u circumstancee m&)' require. Much notice ehall be in Form 
No. 8 in the eame part., with such ,ariat.iona aa circumst.ancee may 
require. 
6. With respect to actions upon a bill of exchanp or promissory
note, commenced within six months after the same shall have be.
come due and payable, the procedure under t.he Bills of Exch&nge 
Act., 18 & 19 Viet. e, 18, &ball continue to be oaed. 
7. The writ of summona in every Admiralty action ill ""' shall
be in Form No. 4 of Part L of Appendix (A} hereto, with such 
nriatioos as circumst.ancee may require.
8. Every writ of summona and also every other writ shall bear 
date on the dav on which the same shall be fsaued, and shall be
teeted in the name of the Lord Chancellor, or if t.he office of Lord 
Chancellor ah&ll be vacant., in the name of the Lord Ohief Jostioe 
of England.
ORDER IIL 
IJrDOBSRKEKTS OF CL.ADI. 
1. The fndol'8ement. of clAi.m &ball be made on every writ of
aummona before it. is issued. 
2. In the indoraement required by Order IL, rule 1, it shall
not be eaacot.ial to set forth the ~reoise ground of oomplaint, or
the precise remedy or relief to which the plaintifff considers himself entitled. The plaintifff' may by leave of the court or judge
amend such indorsement so u to extend it. to any other cauee of
action or any additional remedy or relief. 
8. The lndorsemeot of claim may be to the effect of such of the
forms in Part lL of Appendix (A) hereto. as shall be applicable to 
the esee, or if none be found applicable, then such other aimil.rly
concise form as the nature of the case may require. 
4.. If the plaintifff auee, or the defendant or any of the defendants
is sued in a repreeentative capacity, the iudorsement shall show, in 
manner rr.ariug by the statement in Appendix (A) hereto, Part
IL, Vl ., or by any other statement to the like effect, in what
capacity the plaintifff or defendant sues or is sued. 
6. In Prvb&t.c, actiou.a the indo?Mment shall show wbeLher the 
plaintifff claima aa creditor, exeeu&or, adminiatrator, reeiduary
legatee, legatee, next of kin., heir-at-Iaw, deviaee, or in any and 
what other character. 
6. In all actions where the plaintifff eeeb merely to recover a
debt or liquidated demand fn money payable by the defendant, 
with or without interest, arising upon a oontrac~ ex~ress or im
plied, u, for inatance, on a bill of exchange, pro11U880ry note,
cheque, or other simple contract debt, or on a bond or contract
under seal for payment of a liquidated amount of money, or on a
1tatute where the sum eought to be recovered is a fixed 1um of
money or in the nature of a debt, or on a guarranty, whether
under seal or not, where the olaim against the principal la ia re
spect of such debt or liquidated demand, bill. cheque, or note, or
on a truet, the writ of summons may be specially lndoned with 
the partfculara of the amount sought to be recovered, after giYing
credit for any payment or set-off. 
7. Wherever the plaintifff's claim is for a debt or liquidated
demaod only, the indorsemeat, beeide stating the nature of the
claim, shall state the amount claimed for debt, or in respect of such 
demand, and for costs respectively, and 1h&ll further 1tate, that
upon payment thereof within four days after service, or in caae of
a writ not for servioewithin the jurisdiction within the time allowed
for appearanoe further proceedings will be stayed. Such statement
may be in the form in Appendix {A) hereto, Pan II., e. UL The 
defendant may, notwitbstaadiug such paymunt, have the oost.e
taxed, and if more than one-sixth shall be disallowed, the plaintiff's solicitor shall pay the ooats of taxation. 
8. In all casee of ordinary account, aa, for ioawice, in the 0"68 
of a partnership or exeeutorehip or ordinary tru,t aooount, where
tho plainillf, in the first ioetanoe, deeiree to have an account taken, 
ihe writ of summooe shall be indoned wit.h a claim that BUob
account be taken. 
ORDER IV. 
llfDo.BSBMKllT OF ADDBB88. 
1. The solicitor of a plainillf suing by a eolioltor shall indorse
upon every writ of summons and notice in lieu of service of a writ
of summons the addl't!88 of the plaintifff, and also his own name or 
flrm and place of business, and also, if hie plaoe of buaineea shall 
be more lban tbree miles from 1'emple Bar, another proper place,
to be called hie addretS for service, which shall not be more than 
three miles from Temple Bar, where write, notices, petitiona, orders, 
1ummoneee, warrants, and other documents, proceedings, and
written oommunioatious may be left for him. .Aod where anr suoh 
aolicitor is only agent of anoiber solicitor, he shall add to hlS own
name or firm and. place of businees the name or firm and place of
business of the principal solicitor. 
2. A plaintifff suing in person shall indorse upon every writ of
summons and notice in lieu of service of a writ of summons his 
place of residence and occupation, aod also, if his place of reeidenee shall be more than three miles from Temple Bar, another
proper place, to be called bill address for service, which shall not be 
more than three milee froru 'I'euiple Bar, where writs, notices, 
petitions, orders, summonses, warrants, and other documents, pro.
eeedings, and written communications may be left for him. 
LTM abote tu,o ruleare U> apply to all CtUa in tohic/a tJae mt oj 
IIU1lmon& i8 iuued <Jut of t4e Lonilim' office, qr out of a di.atrict regutry 
ta~ th.e de/enoont /w tht! option of entering an appi1~ eiU&er in
tJae dutrict ~ qr IN! London office.] 
3. ID all other cases where a writ of summons ia iasued out of
a district registry it shall be sufficient for thft solicitor to give on
the writ the sddress of the plaiotiff, and his own name or firm and 
hia place of buainess within the district, or for the plaintifff, if he
sues in person, to give 011 the writ his place of residence and occupation, &Qd if his place of residence be not within the district, an 
addrees for service within the distrioL 
ORDER V. 
lssUB OF WRITS OB SUKXOl'fS. 
1. Place of imle. 
t. In any aotioo. other than a Probate action, the plaintifff whereever reeident may iasue a writ of aummona out of the registry of 
any distrioL 
2. 111 all C&8e8 where a defendant neither reeidea nor carriea on
businees within the district out of the regietry whereof a writ of
summons is issued, there ahall be a statement on the face of the
writ of summons that such defendant may cause an appearance to 
be entered at his option either at the diat.rict registry or the Loudon 
office, or a statement to the like effect.
S. 111 all cases where a defendant resides or e&rriea on business 
within the diatrict., and a writ of summo11s is issued out of the
district registry, there shall be a statement Oil the face of the writ
of summons, that the defend&llt do cause an appearance to be 
entered at the district registry, or to the like effect.
2. Optwn to claoo,e di,,uion in certain caau. 
4. Subject to the power of transfer, every person by whom aoy
cause or matter may be commenced in the High Oourt of Justice
which would havo been within the Doll-exclusive ooguizanoeof tho
High Court of Admiralty if the said Act bad not passed shall
assign such cause or matter to any one of the divisions of the said
High Court, including the Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Division 
as be may think flt. by marking the document by which the same
is commenced with the name of the division, and giving notice 
thereof to the proper officer of the court. If so marked for tho
l.Jhanoery division the same shall be &88igned to one of the judges
of such division by marking the same with the oame of such of the
said judges as the plaiotiff or petitioner (subject to such power of 
trallsfer) may think flt.
3. Ger.eraUy. 
5. Writs of summons shall be prepared by the pl11.intiff or his 
solicitor, and shall be written or printed, or partly written and
partly printed, oil paper of the same deeorietioo as hereby directed
in the cuee of proceedings directed Lo be printed, 
6. Every writ of summona shall be sealed by the proper officer,
and shall thereupon be deemed to be i88ued. 
7. The plaintifff or bis solicitor aball, on preeentfog any wrlt of
summons for sealing, leave with the officer a copy, written or 
printed, or partly written and partly printed, on paper of the
deeeriptlon aforesaid, of such writ, and all the iDdone111ent8
thereon, and such oopy shall be signed. by or for the eolfcitor 
leaving the same, or 1'7 the plaintifff himself if he sues the pereon. 
8. The officer receiving such copy shall file the m~ and an
entry of the filing thereof shall be made in a book to be called the 
cause book, which is to be kept in the manner in which eauae 
boob have heretofore been kept by the clerks of records and
writs in the Court of Chancery, and the action shall be df11ting11isbed by the date of the year, a letter, and a number, in the 
manner In which cauaee are now distinguished in such laa~
mentioned cause books. 
9. Notice to the proper officer of the auignment of an action
to any diviaion of the court under section 11 of the Supreme Court 
of Judicature Act, 1875, or under rule 4 of thie order, shall be 
nfflciently given by leaving with him the copy of the writ of 
&UmlDOD8. 
4. ln particular Acti<m6.
10. The isaue of a writ of summons in Probate actions shall be 
preceded by the filing of an affidavit made by the plaintifff or
one of the plaintifffs in verification of the indonement on the writ. 
11. In Admiralty actions in rem no writ of summons shall iNue
until an affidavit bT the plaintifff or his agent baa been illed, and 
the following prov11ions complied with : 
(a.) The affidavit shall state the Hme and deecript.fon of the
party on whoee behalf the action is inatituted, the nature of the
claim, the name and nature of the property to be arrested, and that.
the claim has not been satisfied. 
(b.) In an action of wages the affidavit aball state the national
character of the vessel proceeded against.; and if against a foreign 
veseel, t.bat notice of the institution of the action bu been given
to the Consul of the State to which the vessel belongs, if there be 
one resident in London [ a copy of tM not~ ,J,all l,e anneztd to IM 
affidarit]. 
(c.) In an action of bottomry, the bottomry bond, and if in a
foreign language alao a notarial translation thereof, sbllll be pro. 
dueed for the inspection and perusal of the registrar, and a copy
of the bond, or of the translation thereof, certified to be correct,
shall be annexed to the affidaviL 
(d.) In an action of distribution of l&lvage the affidavit shall
stl\te the amount of salvage money awarded or agreed to be ac
cepted, and the name, address, and description of the party holding
the eame, 
(e.) The court or judge may in any case, if be think flt, allow
the writ of summons to isaue although the affidavit may not contain all the required particulars. In a wages cause he may also 
waive the service of the notice, and in a cauee of bottomry the
production of the bond. 
12. If, when an1 property is under arrest in Admiralty, a second
or su~uent action is instituted against the aame property, the 
eolicitor m such second action may, subject to the preceding rules.
take out a. writ of summons in rtm and cause a caveat :against the 
release of thG property to be entered in the Caveat Beleaee Book
herein&fter mentioned. ' 
OBDEB VL 
Co.RCUllREltt WRITB. 
1. The plaintifff in any action may, at the time of or at any
time during twelve months after the issuing of the original writ of
summons, issue'bne or more concurrent writ or writs, each concur
rent writ to bear teste of the same day u the original writ, and to
be m&rked with a seal bee.ring the word "concurrent," and the
date of i88uing the concurrent writ; and such seal shall be impressed
upon the writ by the proper officer : Provided al ways, that snob 
concurrent writ or writa shall only be in force for "1e period during
which the original writ in such action shall be in force. 
2. A writ for service within the jurisdiction may be issued and
me.rked a.s a concurrent writ with one for service, or whereof notice 
in lieu of service is to be given. out of the jurisdiction; and & writ
for service, or whereof notice in lieu of service fa to be given. out
of the jurisdiction may be issued and marked as a concurrent writ 
with one for service within the jurisdiction.
OBDEB VlL 
DISCLOSURE BY SOLJCITOBS AND PL.uzn'IFFS. 
1. Every solicitor whose name shall be indorsed on any writ of
1ummone shall, on demand in writing made by or on behalf of any
defendant who has been served therewith or bas appeared thereto, 
declareforthwith whether such writ baa been issued by him or
with his authority or privity; a.od if such solicitor shall declare
that. the writ was not issued by him or with bis authority or privity, 
all proceedings upon the same shall be stayed, and no further proceedings shall be taken thereupon without leave of the court or 
a judge.
2. When a writ is sued out by partners in t.he name of their firm, 
the plt.intiffs or their solicitors shall, on demand in writing by or
on behalf of any defendant, declare forthwith the names and
P.laoes of residence of all the persons constituting the firm. And
if the plt.intiffs or their solicitors shall fail to comply with such 
demand, all proceedings in the action may, upon an application for
that purpose, be stayed upon such terms a.s the court or a judge 
may direct. And when the names of the partners are so declared,
the action shall proceed in the same manner, and the same consequences in a.11 respects shall follow as if they had been named as 
the plaintifffs in the writ. But &11 proeeedlnga shall, nevenhelesa,
continue in the name of the firm. 
ORDER VIII. 
RBNEW AL OF WBI'I'.
1. No original writ of summons shall be in force for more than 
twelve months from the day of the date thereof, including the day 
of such date; but if any defeudant therein named aball not have
been served therewith, the pl11intiff may, before the e:m:piratloo of
the twelve months, apply to a judge. or the district registrar, for 
leave to renew the writ; and the judge or regiatrar, If satisfied
that reuooable efforts h3ve been made to serve auch defendant,
or for other good reason, may order that the original or concurrent writ of summons be renewed for six months Trom the date of 
such renewal, and so from time to time during the currency of the
renewed writ. And the writ shall in such case be renewed by
being marked with a seal bearing the date of the day, month, and 
year of such renewal; such seal to be provided and kept for that
purpose at the proper office, and to be Impressed upon the writ b1 
the froper officer, upon delivery to him by the plaintifff or hta
solicitor of a memorandum in Form No. 5 in Appendix (A), Part I.
and a writ of summons so renewed shall remain ill force and be
avaflable to prevent the operation of any statute whereby the time
for the commencement of the action may be limited, and for all 
other purposes, from the date of the i88uing of the original writ
of summons. 
2. The production of a writ of summons purporting to be
marked with the seal of the court, showing the aame to have been
renewed In manner aforeeaid, shall be sufficient evidence of Its 
having been eo nnewedr and of the commencement of tbe action 
as of the ff.nit date of sucn renewed writ for all purpoeee. 
1. Matk of &rt,i.
1. No service of writ shall be required when the defendant, by 
hia eolicitor, agrees to accept service, and enteni an appearance.
2. When service is required the writ shall, wherever it is prac
Ucable, be served in the manner in which personal service is now
made, but if it be made to appear to tho court or to a judge that 
the plaintifff ia from any cause unable to effect prompt pel'BOnal
11erv1ce, the conrt or judge may make such order for substituted or 
other service, or for the substitution of notice for service, as may 
seem just. 
ORDER IX. 
SERVICE OP WRIT OF SUJOIOl'f& 
2. Ora particular Deftndanla. 
3. When husband and wife are both defendants to the action 1er.
Tice on the husband shall be deemed good service on the wife, but 
the court or a judge may order that the wife shall be served with
or without service on the husbsnd, 
4. When an infant is a defendant to the action service on his
or her father or guardian, or if none then upon the person with 
whom the infant resides or under whose care be or she is, shall,
unless the court or judge otherwise orders, be deemed good service
on the infant; provided that the court or judge may order that 
service made or to be made on the infant shall be deemed good
service. 
6. When a lunatic or person of unsound mind not so found by
Inquisition i11 a defendant to the action service on the committee of
the lunatic or on the person with whow the person of unsound 
mind reeldes or under whose care he or she is shall, unless the
court or judge otherwise orders, be deemed good service on such
defeodanL 
8. On Pa,"fneJ'a and otJaer Bodie,. 
6. Where partners are sued in the name of their firm, the writ
shall be served either upon any one or more of the partners, or at 
the principal place within the jurisdiction of the business of the
partnership upon any person having at the time of service the
control or management of the partnership business there; and,
subject to the rules hereinafter contained, such service shall be
deemed good service upon the firm. 
7. Whenever, by any statute, provision ia made for service of
any writ of summons, bill, petition, or other proceas, npon any eorporatioo, or upon any hundred, or the inhabitants of any place, or 
any society or fellowship, or any body or number of persons, whether
corporate or otherwise, every writ of summons may be served in
the manner so provided. 
4. In particular Action&
8. Service of a writ of summons in an action to recover land 
may, In case of vacant p<>88688ion, when it cannot otherwise be 
effected, be ma.de by posting a copy of the writ upon the door of
the dwelling-house or other conspicuous part of the property. 
9. In Admiralty act.ions in rem, the writ shall be served by the
marshal or his substitutes, whether the property to be arrested be 
situate within the port of London or elsewhere wit.bin the jurisdiction of the court, and the solicitor issuing the writ shall, within 
six days from the service thereof, file the same in the registry from
which the writ issued. 
10. In Admiralty actions in rem, service of a writ of summons
against ship, freight, or cargo on board is to be effected by the
marshal or his officer nailing or affl:r.ing the original writ. for a
ehort time on the main mast or on the single mast of the vessel, 
and, on taking off the process, leaving a true copy of it nailed or
fl:r.ed in its place. 
11. If the cargo bas been landed or traoashipped, 110rvice of the
writ of summons to arrest the cargo and freight shall be effected 
by placing the writ for a abort time on the cargo, and on ta.king
off the rroceas by leaving a true copy upon it. 
12. I the cargo be in the custody of a person who will not
permit aooess to it, service of the writ may be made upon the
custodian. 
GeMrt1Ug. 
18. The person serving a writ of summons shall, within three
days at. most after such service, indorse on the writ the day of the 
month and week of the service thereof, otherwise the plaintifff shall
not. be at liberty, in case of non-appearance, to proceed by default i 
and every affidavit of service of such writ. shall mention the day
on which such indorsement was made. 
ORDER X. 
SuBSTITUTKD Snvic11:. 
}:very application to the court or a judge, under Order IX., 
Rule 2, for an order for substituted or other service, or for the
substituriou of notice for service, shall be supported by au affldavU 
sotLing forLh Lhe grounds upon which the application hi made. 
ORDER XI. 
8KRV1CB OUT OF TU J UBl8DlCTION. 
1. Service out of the jurisdiction of a writ of summons or notice
of a writ of summons may be allowed by the court or a judge
whenever the whole or any part of the subject-matter of the act inn
is land or stock, or other property situate within the iurisdictioo, 
or any act, deed, will, or thing affectin~ such }and, stock, or
property, and whenever the contract which is sought to be enforced
or rescinded, dissolved, annulled, or otherwise affected in any
such ACtion, or for the breach whereof damages or other relief are or 
is demanded lo such action, wae made or entered into within the
jurisdiction, and whenever there bu been a breach within the
jurisdiction of any contract wherever made, and whenever any 
act. or thing eougbt to be restrained or removed, or for which
damagee are sought to be recovered, wa, or ia to be done or is
situate within the jurisdiction. 
2. In }111oba&e actions service of a writ of summons or notice of 
a writ of summons may by leave of the court or judge be allowed
out of the jurisdiction. 
8. Every application for an order for leave to serve such writ
or notice on a defendant out of the jurisdiction ,ball be supported 
t,y evidence, by affidavit, or otherwise, showing lo what place or
country such tlefendant is or probably may be found, and whether
such defendant is a British subject or not, and the grounds upon
which the application is made. 
4. Any order giving leave to effect such service or ~ive such
notice shall limit a "time after such service or notice with10 which 
such defendant is to enter an appearance, such time to depend on
the place or oountry where or within which the writ is to be 
8E'rved or the notice given.
5. Notice in lieu of service shall be given in the manner in which 
writs of summons are served. 
ORDER XII. 
APPEARANCE. 
1. Except in the cases otherwise provided for by these rules a 
defendant shall enter his appearance in London.
2. If any defendant to a writ issued in a district registry resides 
or carries on business within the district, he shall appear iu the 
district regi1:1try.
3. If any defendant neither resides nor carries on business in 
the district, he may appear either in the district registry or in
London. 
4. If a sole defendant appears, or all the defendants appear in
the district registry, or if all the defendants who appear iu the
district registry and the others make default in appearance, then,
subject to the power of removal hereinafter provided, the action 
shall proceed iu the district rt1gi1,try. 
5. If the defendant arpears, or any of the defendants appear, in
London the action shal proceed in London ; provided that if the
court or a judge shall be satisfied that. the defendant. appe&ring in
London is a merely formal defendant, or bas no substantial canse
to interfere in the conduct of the action, such court or judge may
order that the action may proceed in the district. registry, notwithstanding such appearance in London. 
6, A defendant shall enter his appearance to a writ of summons
by delivering to the :{>roper officer a memorandum in writing, dated
on the day of the delivering the same, and containing the name of 
the defendant's solicitor, or stating that the defendant defends in
~n. A defendant who appears elsewhere than where the writ. 
18 issued shall on the same day give notice to the plaintifff of his
appearance either by notice in writing served in the ordinary way
or by prepaid letter posted on that day in due course of poet. 
7. The eolicilor of a defendant appearing by a solicitor shall
st.ate in such memorandum his place of buaineea, and, if the appearance is entered in the London office, a place, to be e&lled his
addresa for service, which shall not be more than three milee from
Temple Bar, and if the appearance is entered in a district regis?7, 
a place, to be called his address for service, which shall be within 
the district, 
8. A defendant appearing in person shall state in auoh memoraudum his address, and, if the appearance is entered in the London 
office, a place, to be called his address for service, which shall not 
be more than three miles from 'femple Bar, and if the appearance
is entered in a district l'e({istry, a place, to be called his addreu for 
service, which shall be within the district.
9. If the memorandum does not contain such addrfl8s it sh"ll 
not be received ; and if any such address shall be illusory or
fictitious, the &\lpearance may be set aside by the court or a judge, 
on the application of the plaintifff.
10. The memorandum of appearance shall be in the Form No. 6, 
Appendix (A), Part I., with such variations as the circumetancee
of the ca.se may require. 
11. Upon receipt of a memorandum of appearance, the officer
shall forthwith enter the appearance in the cause book. 
12. Where partners are sued in the name of their firm, they
shall appear individually in their own names. But all subsequent
prooeedings shall, nevertheless, continue in tho name of: the firm. 
13. If two or more defendants in the saiue act.ion shall appear
by the same solicitor and at the same time, the names of all tho
defendants so appearing shall bo inserted in one memorandum. 
14. A solicitor uot entering an appearance in pursuance of bis 
written undertaking so to do on behalf of any defendant shall be 
liable to an attachment.
15. A defendant may appear at any time before judgment. If 
he appear at any time after the time limited for appearance he
shall, on the same day, give notice thereof to the plaintifff"s solicitor, or to the plllintiff himself if he sues In person, and he shall
not, unless the court or a. judge otherwise orders, be entitled to 
any further time for delivering his defense, or for any other purpose, than il he bad appeared according to the writ.. 
16. In Probate actiona any person not named in the writ may
intervene and appear in the action ai, heretofore, on filing an affi
davit showing that he is interested in the estate of the deceased.
17. In an Admiralty action in roa any person not named in the' 
writ may intervene and appear aa heretofore, on filing an affidavit
showing that be i8 interested in the FYI under arrest, or in the fund 
in the registry.
18. Any person not named as a defendant in a writ of summons 
for the recovery of land may by leave of the court or judge appear
and defend, on filing an afBdavit;showing that be is in poseeeeiou of
the land either by himself or hie tenant. 
19. Any person appearing to defend an action for the recovery
of land aa landlord in respect of property whereof be is in J)088t'88ion
only by hia tenant, shall state in Ins appearance that he appears as
landlord. 
20, Where a person not named as defendant in any writ of
summons for the recovery of land has obtained leave of the court 
or judge to appear and defend, he shall enter an appearance according to the foregoing rules, intituled in the action against the party
or parties named in the writ as defendant or defendants. and shall 
forthwith give notice of such appearance to the plaintifff's solicitor,
or to the plaintifff if be sues in person, and shall in all subsequent
proceedings be named as a party defendant to the action. 
21. Any person aP.pearing to a writ of summons for the recovery
of land shall be at liberty to limit his defense to a part only of the 
property mentioned in the writ., describing that part with reasonable
certainty in his memorandum of ap~ranoe or in a notice intitulcd 
in the cause, assigned by him or bis solicitor such notice to be
served within four days after sppearenee j and an appearance 
wht1re the defense is not so limited shall be deemed an appearance
to defend for the whole. 
22. The notice mentioned in the last preceding rule may be
in the Form No. 7 in Part I. of Appendix (A) hereto, with such 
variations u circumstances may require. 
ORDElt XIII. 
DEFAULT OF APPEARANCE, 
1. Where no appeerauce has been entered to a writ of summons
for a defendant who is an infant or a purson of unsound mind not
so found by inquisition, the plaintifff may apply to the court or a 
judge for an order that some proper person be assigned guardian of
such defendant., by whom be may appear and defend thA actiou.
But no such order shall be made unless it appears on the bearing 
of Rueb application that the writ of summons was dulv served, aud
that notice of such application was after the expiratio0n of the time
allowed for appearancti, and at least six clear days before tho day
in such notice named for bearing the application, served upon or
left at the dwelling-house of the person with whom or under 
whose care such defendant wiu; at tho time of serving such writ of
summons, and also (in tho csse of such defendant being au infant 
not residing with or under the care of hie father or flUanHan)
served upon or left at the dwelling-house of the father or gu1mli1rn, 
if auy, of such iufaut, unless the court vr judge t tho tiwo uf 
bearing such application shall dispense with such Jut-mentioned
service. 
2. Where any defendant fails to 1>pear to a writ of summons,
and the plaintifff is desirous of proceeding upon default of appearance under any of the following rules of tbia order, or under 
Order XV., rule l, be sba1l, before taking such l>rooeeding upon
default, file an affidavit of service, or of notice in lieu of service, u
the case may be. 
3. In case of non-afpe,.ranoe by the defendant where the writ
of summons is special y endoned, under Order III., Rule 6, the 
plaintifff may sign final judgment for any sum not exceeding the
sum endorsed on tho writ, together with intercet at the rate
epecifled, if any, to the date of the judgment, and a sum for coeta,
but it shall be lawful for the court or a judge to set aside or vary
such judgment upon such terms as may seem just 
4. Where there are several defendant.a to a writ specially indorsed for a debt or liquidated demand in money, under Order
III., Rule 61 and one or more of them appear to the writ, and
another or others of them do not appear, the plaintifff may enter
final judgment against such as have not appeared, and may issue
execution upon such judgment without prejudice to his right to 
proceed with his action "g'Ainst such as have appeared.
5. Where the defendant fails to appear to the writ of summons, 
aud the writ is not specially indorsed, but the pl11.intiff's ,claim ia
for a debt or liquidated demand only, no st11.tement of claim need
be delivered, but the plaintifff may file an afBdavH of service or 
notice in lieu of service, as the cue may be, and a statement of the
particulars of hi8 claim in respect of the causes of a.r,tion stated in 
the indorsement upon the writ, and may, after the expiration of
eight days, enter final judgment for the amount showu thereby
aud ooste to be taxed, provided that the amount shall not be more
than the sum indorsed upon the writ besides costs. 
6. Where the defendant fails to appear to the writ of summons,
aud the plaiotiff'11 claim ia not for a debt or liquidated demand 
only, but for detention of goods and ~uniary damages, or either
of them, no statement of claim need be delivered, but interlocutorr
judgment may be entered and a writ of iuquiry shall issue to
assess the value of tho goods and the damag68i or the damages
only, as the case may be, in respect of the causes of action disclosed by the indorsement on the writ of summons. But the court
or a judge may order that, instead of a writ of inquiry, the value
and amount of damages, or either of them, shall be ascertamed in
any way in which any question arising in an action may be tried. 
7. In case no appearance shall be entered in au act.ion for the
recovery of land, within the time limited for appearanoe, or if an
appearanoe be entered, but the defense be limited to part only, the
plaintifff shall be at liberty to enter a judgment that the person 
whoee title is auerted in tbe writ shall recover poseesslou of the
laud, or of the part thereof to which the defense docs not apply. 
8. Where the plaintifff bas iudorsed a claim for mesne profits,
arrears of rent, or damages for bresch of contraol, upon a writ for 
the recovery of land, he may enter judgment aa in the la.st preceding rule meutioned for the land; and may proceed as in the 
other preceding ru1ee of t.bla order u to s11oh other claim ao
endorsed. 
9. lo actions uaigned by the 84th seoLioo of the Act to tha
Cb.uoery Division, and in Probate action, and io all other action11
uot by t.be RultMII in this order ot.berwiae pecially provided for, iu
caae the party eervoo wilb the writ. does not 11ppe.r within th11
Lime limited for ar,pearance, upon the filing by t.be plaiotitf of a 
proper aflldavit of service, the act.ion may procoed as it such party
bad appe&red. 
10. In an Admiralty action i11 rem, in which an appearaooe baa
not been entered, tbti plaintifff may proceeJ as follows: 
(a) He may, aft.er the expiration of twelve dars from the
filing of the writ. of summons, take out a notice o Nie, to ~ 
advertised by him in two or won, public jouruala to be frow time
t.o t.irue appointed bl the judge. 
(b) Aft.er the t>tp1r11tion uf six days from the adnrti11ement of
t.hti notice of sale in the hid journals, if an appearauce h1t11
not been entered, the plaintifff sh ... 11 file in tha r .. gi,1try All 
aflldavit to the effect that t.be hid not.ices h"ve been duly advert.filed, with copies of tbe journals annexed, as also such pr..wfs 
aa may ht, D800d8Ary to est.bli11b the claim, auu a notice of motiou
to have the property sold, 
(c) If, wht!n the motion couies before the judge, he is satioflt:d 
that the claim is well founded, he may order the property to be
appraised and sold, and the proceeds t.o be paid iuto the registry. 
(d) If there be two or more actionby dt,fult. peudiug agaiu11t
the same property, it shall not be neceesary to take out a notice
of sale iu more t.bao one of the actions; but if the pl"inti!J iu
the first action does not, withiu eigb'4,en d&y11 from the filing of
the writ in that. action, take out and adyerit.e tbe notice of a.le, 
the pl11intiff in the second or any subseqneut action ,uay take out
and advertise the notlce of sale, if be shall have fll.-d in the regiB. 
try a writ of aummooain 1-em in such second or subsequent actiou.
(e) Within six days from the time wheu the proceeds have 
been paid into the registry, the plaintifff iu each 11ctioo shall, if
he bu not previously done so, fl.le hilt proofiu the registry aud
have the act.ion placed on the list for bearing. 
(/) Io an action of posaeseioo, after the expiration of six day1,1
from the filing of the writ, if an appearance has not been entered, 
the plaintifff may, on filing in tbe rt'gistry a memorandum, take
out. a notice of proceeding in the action, to be advt-rt.used by him
in two or more public [ournals to ht, frow time to time appointed 
by the judge.
(g) After the expiration of ab days from the advertisement of 
the notice of proceeding in the said journals, if an appearaucbas not. been entered, the plaintifff shall tllti in the tt!tistry "u
aflldavit to the effect that. the notice bas been duly advertised
with oopiee of the journals annexed, as also such proofs as DJay
be necessary to establish the action, and shall have the sctiou
placed on the list for hearing. 
(4.) If whoo the aeLiou comes before the judge be id satisfi, .J
that tho claim is well founded, be may pronounce for the s..mt>, 
and decree po88e81iioo of the Vet!Sel accordingly. 
ORDER XIV. 
LiuvB TO DuuWHKRB WBJT SPECIALLY urDORSBD. 
1. Where t.he defendant appears on a writ of summons specially
Indorsed, under Order III., rule 6. the plaintifff ma1, on affidavit 
verifying the cause of action, and swearing that in h1s belief there
is no defense to the acilon, call on thCl defendant to show cause 
before the court or a ju_dge why the plaintifff should not be at liberty
to aigo final judgment for the amount so indorsed, together with
Interest, if any, and eosta; and the court or judge may, unless tlae
defendant, by affidavit or otherwise, satisfy the court or judge that
he baa a good defense to the action on tho merits, or disclose such 
facts as the court or judge may think sufficient to entitle him to be 
permitted to defend the action, make an order empowering the
plaintifff to aign judgment accordingly. 
2. The application by the plaintifff for leave to enter final judgment
under the last preceding rule shall be mado by summons returnable 
not lees than two clear days after service.
8, The defendant may show cause against such application by 
offerin~ to bring into court the sum indoraed on the writ, or by 
affidavit. In such affidavit he shall state whether the defense he
alleges goes to the whole or to part only, and if so, to what part, 
of the plaintifff's claim. And the judge may, if he think fit, order
the defendant to attend and be examined upon oath ; or to produce
any books or documents or copies of or extracts therefrom. 
4. If it. appear that the defense set up by t.be defendant applies
only to a part of the plaintifff's claim ; or that. any part of his claim
is admitted to be due; the plaintifff shall have judgment forthwith
for such part of bis claim aa the defense does not apply to or as is
admitted to be due, subject to such terms, if any, as to suspending 
execution, or the peyment of the amount levied or any part. thereof
into court by the sheriff, the taxation of costs, or otherwise, as the
judge may think fit. And the defendant. ma.y be allowed to defend
as to the residue of the plaintifff's claim. 
6. If it appears to the judge that any defendant. has a good
defense to or ought to be permitted to defend the action. and that
any other defendant has not such defense, and ought not to be 
permitted to defend, the former may be permitted to defend, and
the plaintifff shall be entitled to enter final judgment against the 
latter, and ma7 issue execution upon such judgment without prejudice to bis 11ght to proceed with his action a~lnst the former. 
6. Leave to defend may be given unconditionally or subject to 
such terms as to giving security, or otherwise, as the oourt. or a
judge may think ff t. 
ORDER XV. 
APPLICATION FOB. AcooUNT WBERB WRIT JBDOBBBD ONDO
011.DER III., RuLB 8. 
1. In default of appearance to a summons fndorsed under Order
Ill., rule 8, and after appearance, unleea the defendant. by am;.
davit or otherwise, aatlafy the court or a judge that there is R<>me
preliminary question to be tried, an order for t.he account claimed,
with all directions now usual in the Court of Chucery iD aimilar 
cues, shall be forth wit.h made. 
2. An appH~tion for such order as mentioned in the last-preceding role ahall be made by summons, and be supported by an 
affldaYit filed on behalf of the plaintifff, stating concisely the
grounds of his claim to an acoount. The application ~y be 
made at any time after the time f,n mterlng an appearance baa 
expired. 
ORDER XVL 
P.tRTia. 
1. All persons ma7 be joined as plaintifffs in whom the right to
any relief claimed 18 alleged to exist, whether jointly, severally,
or in the alternative. And judgment may be given for such one or 
more of tho plaintifffs as m~ be found to be entitled to relief, for
such relief as be or they may be entitled to, without any amend
ment. But the defendant , though unsucceaaful, shall be entitled
to his costs occasioned by so joining any person or persons who 
shall not be found entitled to relief, unless the oourt, in disposing
ol the costs of the action, shall otherwise direct. 
2. Where an action bas been commenced in the name of the
wrong person as plaintifff, or where it. is doubtful wh"'tber it has
been commenced in the name of the right plaintifff or pl1intilf1, the
court or 11. judge may, if satisfied that it. baa been so commenced 
throu~h a bond fide mistake, and that it is nece88&ry for the determination of the real matter in dispute so to do, order an,: other 
person or persons te be substituted or added as plaintifff or plaintiffs upon such terms as may seem just. 
8. All persons may be joined as defendant.a against whom the
right to any relief is alleged to ezist, whether jointly, severally, or
in the alternative. And judgment may be given ~ainst such one
or more of the defendants as may be found to be liable, according 
to their respective liabilities, without 11.ny amendment.
4. It shall not be necessary that every defendant to any action 
shall be interested as to all the relief thereby prayed for, or as to
every cause of action included therein ; but the court or a judge
may make such order as may appear just to prevent any defendant
from being emb&rrused or put to expense by being required to 
attend any proceedings in such action in which he may have no
interest. 
5. The plaintifff may, at his option, join as parties to the same
action all or any of the persons severally, or jointly and severally, 
liable on any one contract, including parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes. 
6, Where in any action, whether founded upon contract or
otherwise, the plaintifff ii in doubt as to the person from whom be 
fa entitled to redress, be ma1., in such manner u hereinafter mentioned, or as may be prescribed by any special order, join two or
more defendants, to the intent that in such &ction the question II 
to which_, if an1, of the defendants ii liable, and to what extent,
may be determined as between all parties to the action. 
7. Trustees, executors, and administrators may sue and be sued
on behall of or u representing the pro~rty or eat.tee of which 
they are trustees or repreaent.ativoa, without joining any of the
part.iee beneficially interested in the trust or eetate, and shall be 
considered u representin~ such parties in the action ; but the
court or a judge may, at a11y st.ge of the proceedings, order any
of such parties to he made parties to the action, either in addition
to or in lieu of the previously existing parties tbereto, 
8. Married woruen aud i11fants may rei-peetively sue 11e plaintifffs
by their uext Iriends, in tbft manner practised in the Court of
Chanct'ry before the pauing of t.liis Act; aud infauts may. in like
mauuer, defeud a11y action by their guardians appointed for tb,lt
purpose, Married womt'u may al&O. by the lf'11ve of the court or a
judge, sue or defend without their husbands and without. a IH'Xt 
friend, on ghing such 11ccurity (if any) for costs 88 the court or a
judge may require. 
9. Where there are numerous putieH having the san,e interest
in one action, one or more of such parties may suor be sued, or 
may be authorized by the Court to defend in such action, on behalf
ur for the benefit of all parties so interested. 
10. Any two or more persons clai11,ing or being liable as cofartm,rs may sue or be sued iu tho name of their respective firms, 
if auy; and any party to an action may in such cue apply by
summone to a judge for a statt-mt>nt of the names of the persona 
who 11re co-partners in any such firm, to be furnished in such
mauuer, and verified on oath or otherwise, as the judge may direct. 
11. Suhj .. ct to the provisions of tho Ar.t, and thf't1P rules, the
provisions as to parties, contained in sectton 42 of 16 & 16 Victoria, 
chapter 86, shall be in force u to actions in tho High Court. of
Juetice. 
12. Subject as laet afores11id, io all Probate actions the rult'& 88 
to parties. heretofore in use in the Court of Probste, shall continue
to ht! in force. 
13, No action shall be defeated by reason of the misjoinder of
parties, and the court may in eTery action deal with the matter in 
controversy so far as regards the right.a and Interests of the parties
actually before it. 1 he court or a judge may, at any flU.ge of the
proceedings, either upon or without. the application of either party, 
aad on such tt-1ms as may appear to the court or a judge to be
juet, order that the name or names of any party or parties, whether
as plainl.iffs or &8 detendante, improperly joined be struck out, and
that. the n&me or namt!8 of any party or ~rticti, whetber plaintifffs 
or delendant.a, who ought to have been Joined, or whose presence
before the court may be nPcessary in order to enable the court 
1:ffectoally and completely to adjudicate upon and settle all the
questtons involved lll the action, be added. No person shall be
added aa a plaintifff suiug without a nt':xt friend, or 11s the next.
frieud of a plaintifff under auy duiability, without bis own ooosont 
thereto. AU parties whose names are so added as defendants
shall be served with a summons or notice in manner hereinafter
mentioned, or in such mauuer as may be prescrrbed by any apecial
order, and the proceedings 1111 ag11inst them shall be deemed to l1ave
beguu only on the service of such summoua or notice, 
14. Any application to add or strike out or substitute a pl11intift'
or defendant may be 11,aJe to the court or a judge at any t.irua
before trial by motion or snm1110011, or at the trial of tbe act.ion in & 
summary mauner. 
lo. Whl're & defendant ie a.dded. unless otberwfee ordered by the
eourt or judp:e, the plintiff 11hall ftle an amended oopy of and eae
out a writ of 1un,mons., ADd eerve such new defendant whh auch
writ or notice in lieu of rvice theN'Of in the 1&me manner 1111 
original defeodaot.11 &TI' served.
16. If " stall'ml'ut nf claim has been delivered p~ioualy to such 
dtsft-nd .. nt beioff added, the 11&me sh11.ll. uoleea otbl'rwiae ordered ~
the court or judge, be amended in such manner u the makiof aucii 
new defPodant a party shall render ..tesiNble. and a copy o such
amended ltAtf'Ulent of claim shall be dPliYPrPd to 11uch new defend
ant at tbe timhen he i11 serv"d with the writ of summons or
notice or aft,,rwards., within four days after his appearance. 
17. WhPre a defPndant fs or claims to ~ entitled to contribution
or indemniry, or 11ny other rP1t1Pdy r relief over agaioet any other 
Jlf'1'80D, or whorl' from any other cause it apvears to the court or
a judge that a q11f'l>tion in the 11ction should IJe determined notouly 
as between the plaintifff and defendant, but as between the plaintifff,
dt>fendant. and any other person, or between any or either of thein,
the t"ourt or a judge may, on notice bt-iog giYen to such lut.
mrnrloned person, make such order as may be proper for baring
thA question so determined. 
18. Wht>re 11. defend1nt claims to be entitled to contribution, indemnity, or other remeity or l'Plief OVf'r against any person not a
party to the action, he may, by leAve of the court or a judge. is8UA 
a notice to that t>ff .. ct. stamped with tlie 11eal with which writ8 of 
summons 11re M>aled. A copy of such notice slu,11 be filed with tbe 
proper officer Aud t'rnd on such person accot'dinff to the rnles
relating to the service of write of summons. Tbe notice ah" II .. tate 
the nature and grounds of the claim, and shall, nulees otherwi..e
order .. d by the court or a judire. be served within the time limited
for deliverioff hie statement of defense. Such notice n,ay be in thts
form or to the 1ffect of !lie Form No. 1 in App,-ndix (R) hereto
with such vaiiatious as circumsteneee 11,ay rt-quire, and thtin-whh 
shall be served a copy of the 11talti1oeoL of claim, or if there be no
etahmeut of claim, th-n a copy of the writ of eummoDII in the
action. 
19. When uudt>r I alto 17 of this order It is made to 11ppMr
to the oourt or a juiigt, 11t any tinfl before or at tlie trial
that a question in the action should be determined, not. only 
aa betwettu the plaintifff aud defeodaut, but as betweeu the plaintifff
and the defeod,mt and any other person, or betwuen any or either
of them. the court or a judge, before or at the time of lll&kiog the 
order fur having such questiou determined, shall direct such notice
to be ,tlYeu by the plaiutiff at such time, and to such P411'1on, aud
In such manner u may be thought proper, and if made at the
trial the judge my poeipcne such trial 118 he may thfok fiL 
20. If a person not a part.y to the action, who ta 1Jt1rved ill 
mentioned in rule 18, desirt-8 to ditopote the plaintifffe claim in the
action as again11t the defendant on wboee behalf the notice has 
been given, be must enter an ppearaocc in the action within e~ht
days from thf' service of the notice. In def,udt of his eo doioff, be
shall be deemed to admit the validity of the [ndgment obtained 
agai11at aucb de:leodant, whether obt.aioe:J by cuusent or utherwiee. 
Provided alwaye, that a person BO served and failing to appear
within the &aid period of eight days may apply to the court or a
judge for leave to appear, and such leave may be ginn upon such
terms, if any, as thtt court or a judge.shall think flt. 
21. If a person not. a party to the action eerved under these
rules appeers pursuant. to the notice, the party giving the notice
may apply t.o the court or a judge for directions u to the mode of
having the question in the action detetmined ; and the court or
judge, upon the hearing of such application, may, ii it shall appear
desirable so to do, give the person so served liberty t.o defend the 
action upou such terms as shall seem just, and may direct such
pleadings to be delivered, or such amendments in any pleadings to
be made, and generally may direct such proceedings to be taken,
and give such directions aa to the court or a judge shall appear 
proper for having the question most conveniently determined, and
u to the mode and exlfmt in or to which the person PO served
sbalJ be bound or made liable by the decisiou of the question. 
ORDER XVII. 
JOJlfDER OF CAUSES OF Ac...'TION. 
1. Subject to the followiug rules, the plaintifff may unite in the
same action and in the same statemeut of claim several caus('II of
action, but if it appear to the court or a judge that any such causes 
of action cannot be conveniently tried or disposed of together, tbfl
court or judge may order separate trials of a11y of such causes of
action to be had, or may make such other order as ruay be neces
sary or expedient for the separate disposal thereof.
2. No cause of action shall, unless by leave of the court or a 
judge, be joined with an action for the recovery of land, except
claims in respect of mesne profits. or arrears of rent in respect of
the premises claimed, or any part. thereof, and damages for breach
of any contract under which the same or any part thereof are held. 
8. Claims by a trustee in bankruptcy as such shall not, unless
~y )eave of the co~rt or a judge, be joined with any claim by him 
10 any other capacity.
4. Olaims by or against husband and wife may be joined with 
claims by or against either of them separately. .
6. Claims by or against an executor or administrator as such 
may be joined with claims by or against him personally; provided
the last-mentioned claims are alleged to arise with ref Prence to the
estate in respect of which tho plaintifff or defendant sues or is sued
ae executor or administrator. 
6. Claims by plaintifffs jointly may be joined with claims by
them or any of them separately ,~ainst the same defendant, 
7. The last three preceding rules shall be subject to rule 1 of
ibis order, and to tho rules hereinafter contained. 
8. Any defendant alleging that the plaintifff has united in the
same action several causes of action which cannot be conveniently
disposed of in one action, may at any time apply to the court or a
judge for an order confining the action to such of the courses of 
action u may be conveniently disposed of in one proceeding.
9. If, on the hearing of such application as in the last preceding 
rule mentioued, it shall appear to the court or a judge 1.b&t the
cau888 of action are eueh as cannot alt be conveniently disposed of 
in one action, the court or a judge may order any of such causes
of action to be excluded, and may direct the statement of claim,
or, if no stAtemeot of claim has been delivered, the copy of the
writ of summons, and the indorsement of claim on the writ of 
summons, to be amended accordingly, and may make such order
as to co:1ts as may be just. 
ORDER XVIII. 
.ACTIOl.CS BY AND AGAil.CST Lu1u.71cs Al.CD PltR.80l.C8 OF UNSOU:0.D 
Mum
In all cues in which luuatica and persona of unsound mind not 
ao found by inquisition might respectively before the pa.saing of
the Act. b.ve Siled as plaiutiffs or wo11.ld have been liable to be 
sued as defendants in an1 action or suit, they may respectively
sue as plaintifffs in any action by their committee or next friend in
manner practised in tho Court of Chancery before the passing of
the said Act, and may in like manner defend any action by their 
committees or gua.rdiana appoint.od for that purpose. 
ORDER XIX. 
PLEADIYO GENEllALLY, 
1. The following rules of pleading shall be substituted for those
heretofore used in the High Court of Chancery and in the Courts 
of Common Laur, Admiralty, and Probate,
2. Unlees the defendant in an action at the time of bis appearance 
shall state that be does not require the delivery of a s'8tement of
complaint, the plaintifff shall within such time and in such manner 
as hereinafter preserlbed, deliver to the defendant after his appearance a statement of his complaint and of the relief or remedy to 
whicll be claims to be entitled. The defeniant shall within such
time and such manner as hereinafter prescribed deliver to the
plaintifff a statement of bis defense, set-otr, or oounter-cl&im (if any)
and the plaintifff shall in like manner deliver a statement of bis
reply (if any) to such defense. set-off, or counterclaim. Such
statements shall be as brief as the nature of the case will sdmit, 
and the court in adjusting the costs of the action shall inquire at
the instance of any party into any unuecessary prolixity, and order
the costs occasioned by such prolixity to be borne by the party
chargeable with the same. 
3. A defendant in an action may set off, or set 11p, by way of
counterclaim against the claims of the plaintifff, any right or claim, 
whether such set-off or counterclaim sound in damages or not, and
such set-off or counterclaim shall have the same effect as a statement of claim in a cross action, so as to enable the court to pronounce a final judgment in the same action, both on the original
and on the cross claim. But the court or a judge may, on the
application of the plaintifff l,efore trial, if in the opinion of the 
court or judgo such set-off or counterclaim cannot be conveniently
disposed of in the pending &clion, or ou~bt not to be a.Bowed, refuse permission to the defendant to avail himself thereof. 
4. Every pleadinll ab11l contain aa oonclaely u m1y be a statement of the m11terial facta on whit'h the party plnding relies, but 
not the flvidonce by which they are to be proved, such statement
being divided into paragraphs., numbered eonseeutieely, and Nch
paragraph containin1t, u Df'Arly a.8 m11y be, a aepanite allegation.
Dates. 1111m11, anti numbers sh111l ho expree~ed ir figul"l'S and not in
worcla. 8i,cnature of counsel shall not be Dect>11811ry. Forms similar 
to those in Appt'nriix (0.) hereto may be u11Ni.
6. Every pleitdiog whiob sb"ll contain leas than three foli0:t of 
11eventy-two worris each (ever1. figure bf.in~ counted u one word)
may be either printed or wntten, or p&rtly printed and partly
written, and every other plf'Mling, not befog a petition or summons. 
shall be, printed. 
6. Every pleading or other document requireri to be delivert'd
to a f,arty, or between parties, ehal1 be deltvered in th<' manner
now o use to the solicitor of every party who pp-:ara by a 
solicitor, or to the p&rty if be does not appear hy a aohcitor, but if
no appearance baa been entered for any p11rty, then such pleading
or document shall be delivered by being :filed with the proper officer. 
7. Every pleadiD(t In an action shall be tlelivel'f'tl between parties,
and shall be ma.rltoo on the f11oe with the d1te of the day on which it 
la delivered, and with the reference to the letter and number of thA
action, the division to which and the judge (it any) to whom the
action is &BBi~f'd, the title of thfl artion, the description of the
pleading, and the name and plsee of businesa of the solicitor and
ageut, if any, delivering the s11me, or th~ name and addreaa of the
p11.rty delivering the pme if he does not act. by a solicitor. 
8. Every_ s~ternent. of claim shall at.Ate BJ)flOifically the relief
which the plaintifff cl&ima, either simply or in th" alternative, and 
may also aak for general relief. And t.be same rule shall apply to
any counterclaim made, or relief claimed by the defendant. iu his 
aiatemeot of defense. If the plaiotiff'a claim htt for disCOVt'l'Y only
tbe s&Mtement of claim shall show iL 
9. Wh~ the plaintifff seeks relief in respect of several distinct
olaima or causes of complaint fouuded upon separate and distinct 
facts, they shall be stated, as far as may be, separately and distinctly. And the sam'" rule shall apply where the defendant. relies
upon aev<'ral distinct grounds of defense, set off, or counterclaim
founded upon separate and di8tiuct faots. 
10. Where any defendaut aeeb to rely upon any facts as support
fnp: a right. of set off or eouuter-claim, he shall, in bis statement of
defense, atate apeoiflclly that be does so by way of 1161.-off or 
counterclaim.
11. If either party wishes to d1-ny the right of any other party 
io claim as executor, or as trustee, whether in he.okrupt.cy or otherwiae, or in 11.ny representative or other alleged c11paoit.y, or the
alle~ed constitution of any partnership flrm, he shit.II deny the
same specifically. 
12. In probate aotionA where the plaintifff disputes the iutert'st of
the defendaut, be shall It.liege in bia statement of claim that be
denil'1t the defendant's Interest, 
18. No plea or defense sh&ll be pleaded in 1batemont..
14. No new ignou:nt ahaJl hereafter be DtteeeB&ry or used. But 
enrythiog which b1111 beretofor-, been alleged by way of new
Uligu,ueu, may bereaher be hu,rodaoed by ameodrueoL of the nate
ment of clim. 
lo. No ddi:,odiLut in Ml act.ion for the recovery of l1ud wbo ill in
~ion by bi111981f or bia tenant need plead hia ti~e, unle,a bis
defeuce depeuds on an equitable est.&&c, of right, or be claims relief 
upon any rquitabl4' ground against auy right or till" 11<1st1rwd l,y
the plahatdf. Hut, exoept in the Ollll8II hereinbefore menrioued, it
shall b4' ufflcieot to state by way of derence tl1at ht, is eo in pos
lltldltion. Aud be an&y, oeYertb .. J.-n, n,ly upon aoy gro11n<t of dt-
fenc.s hich lie can prove, except 1&11 hereiubefcre mentioued.
16. Nothing in th8118 rule .. oontaioeit ab"11 affect th-. riicht of any 
<iefeuJaut to pl..ad not guilLy by atat.ute. Aud evt1ry dt1't,uce of 
not guilty by statute shall b&vt1 tbtt same effect a ... " plea of not.
guilty by aktUt.e hait heretofore h11J. BuL if tht' def.,uJaut 11U ple.d,
bt1 ti1lal1 uot plead any other deft1uoo w,tbout I.lie leave of the
oourt or a judge. 
17. Every allegation of fact in an1 pl,adiog io an 11ct.ioo, not
being a poliLiou or tl11&1UJ01JW, if uot dt11.1i"'1 11i-,iffo.,lly ur by 
IH'Ct-tlttary implicetion, or stated to be not admitted in th"
pfoaliug of tha opposite party, shall be &k,.n t.o b- admitted, 
except "" ag11in11t 11n iufaot, luoti,, or pel"*>D of unsound mind nut
so found by inq uiasition. 
18. Each parry in 11ny pleading, not b-ing a J)f'tition or summons,
must allt-gt1 all such fae111 not app>arini,r iu the previoue pl,.11dings 
u he meaus t,, rely on, and mu-t raise all such grounds of defeuee
or rPph, as tho cue may be, &H ir not raised on the pleaoings Wl uld 
bt, likof y to 1.1\ke the op('Oflit;,, p11rty by surprise, or would r,iee new
iunee of fact not ariidug out of the p'eedings, 1111, for in-tance,
fraud, or tha., auy claim baa b en barred by the t3tatutl' of Lhuita- 
1.iooa or bas ~o rel..aaed.
19. No pleading, cot b-ing A petition or summons, ball, exori,t 
by way of am .. ndment, raitle amy uew ground of cl-dm, or eon-aiu
any allegation of fact inconsistent with the previoua ple11di11g:1 .,f 
the party pkading the same.
20. It sb11ll not be sufficient for a defendant tu l1i11 defense to 
deny generally the facts all .. god by the st1te111ent of d11im, or for I\ 
plaititiff in hia re1,ly to deny generally the facts alle1:ed in a de
lence by w11y of couuter-clstm, b11t each party n,uit deal specitlcally with e,cb allegation of f.,ct of which he does n.>t 1t1lmit 
tho truth.
21. Subject to the last pl'eCf'ding rule, the pl iintiff' by his 1 eply 
m"y join Is-ue upon the defense, and each part~in his pleading, if
any, snbsequ-nt to reply, may join issue upon th .. previous ple.cd
iog. Such j,,iuder uf issue ah ,ll opi-raw &i a dt'uial of 1:vt11y 
material allegation of fact in the pleading upon which issue is
joined, but it may except aoy f.,cta whil".h the party may be willing 
to admit, and shall then operate 118 a deoial of the facts not so
admitted. 
22. When a party in aul pltl&diog denies an allegation of f11.Ct 
in the previous pie.Jing o tlil' opposite pt.rty, be must not do 110 
evasively, but auawcr tlie point of subetance, 'l'hue, if it bi:, all11wt>d
that. hi, received a cert.aiu Um of woutty, it 1tball uut be .uflici-,ut 
to d<'ny that he received that particular amonnt, but be mU8t
deny that be received that 1um or any _part thereof, or elee Bet
ou, how much he received. And so when a matter of fact ia
alleged witb divers circum1tancee. it 1hall not be 1ufflcient to deny 
u &11 alleged along with those circum.etancee, but a fair and subsw.o tla l answer must be given. 
28. Wben a contract is alleged in any pleading, a bare denial of
the COIW'l,Ct by the oppoeite party shall be construed only aa a denial 
of the making of the contract in fact., and not of it.a legality or ite
sufficiency in law, whether with reference to the Statute of Fraud& 
or otherwise, 
24. Wherever the oontA!nts of any document are material, it
shall be sufficient in any pleading to state the effect thereof u
briefly aa possible, without setting out the whole or any part 
thereof unless the precise words of the docoment or any part 
thereof are material.
26. Wherever it is material to allege malioe, fraudulent inten
tion, knowledge, or other condition of the mind of any person, it.
shall be sufficient to allege the same u a fact without setting out
the circumstances from which the same is to be inferred. 
26. Wherever it is material to allege notice to any person of any 
fact., matter, or thing, it shall be sufflciAnt to allege such notice aa
a fact, unless the form or the precise terms of such notice be 
material.
27. Wherever any contract or any relation between any peraone 
does not arise from an exprees sgreemeut, but it is to be implied
from a series of letters or oonversationa, or otherwise from a number
of circumstances, it shall be sufficient to allege such contract or
relation as a fact, and to refer generally to such letters, conversatious, or circumstances without setting them out in detail, And if 
in such case the person Ro pleadin~ desires to rely in the alternative upon more contracta or relations than oue as to be implied
from such circumstances, he may state the same in the alteruative. 
28. Neither party need in any pleading allege any matter of fact
which the law preeumes in his favour, or as to which the burden of
proof lies upon the otuer aide, unleaa the same bas first been
11peciftcally deuied. 
L E.g. CollSideration for a bill of exchan~e where the plaintifff
sues only on tbe bill, and not for the eousideration aa a substan
tive ground of claim.]
29. Where an action proceeds in a district registry all pleadings 
and other documenta required to be filed shall be filed in the district
registry. 
80. lo actions for damage by collision between vessels, unle811
the court or a Judge shall otherwise order, each solicitor shall, 
before any pleadmg is delivered, file with tbe proper officer a doeument to be called a Preliminary Act, which 1hall be sealed up and 
shall not be opened until ordered by the court or a judge, and
wbich shall contain a statement of the following particulars:- 
(a.) 1'he names of the V888ela which came into colljslou and
the 11arues of their maaters. 
Cb.) Tho time of the collision.
(c.) 'l'be place of the collisiou. 
(d.) The direction of the wind.
(e.) The elate of the weather.
(/.) The atate aad force of tbe tide.
(g.) The oou.rN aad speed of the veuel when the other wu fll'llt. 
988D. 
1
4.) The lighta, if aay, curled by her.
i.) The dwtance aod bearing of the other vM1el when lrst seen.
!.) The light.a, if any, of the other Teuel which were flnt seen,
L) Whether any lighta of the othel' vessel, other than thoae 
ftn1t eeen, came into Tiew before the collusion.
(m.) What meuures wen taken, and when, to avoid the eollt
elon. 
(11) The parts of each nae) which first came Into contact.
If both aoUcitore consent, the coart or a jadge may order the 
preliminary act.a to be opened and the evidence to bo t&koa thereon
without it.a being neceaeary to deliver any pleadings. 
ORDER XX. 
PLICADIKG MAffKB8 AJUBIKG P&.."fDmo THB Acnox.
1. Any ground of defense which baa arisen after action brought, 
but before the defendant has delivered bia statement of defense,
and before the time limited for lais doing ao baa expired, may be 
pleaded by the defendant in his statement of defense, either 11111110 
or together with other grounds of defense. And if, after a statemeut of defense has been delivered, 11oy ground of defense arises
to any set-oor ~oantel"-cl11irn alleged therein by the defendant, it
may be pleaded by the plaiotiin bis reply, either alone or
together with any other gro11nd of reply. 
2. Where any ground of defense arisee after the defendant has
delivered a statement of defense, or after the time limited for bis
doing so has expired, the defeudant m11y1 and where any ground
of defense to a.ny set-off or counterclaim arises After reply, or after
the time limited for delivering a reply has expired, the plaintifff
may, within eifbt days after such ground of defense has arisen,
and by leave o the court or a judge, deliver a further defense or
further reply, as the case may be, setting forth the same. 
8. Whenever any defendant, in his statement of defense, or in
any farther statement of defense as in the Jaat rule mentioned
&lieges any ground of defenoe which h88 arisen after the commencement of the action, the plaintimay deliver a confession o( such
defeuce, which confession may be in the Form No. 2 in Appendix 
(B) hereto, with such Tariatfons aseircumstaocee may require, and
lie may thereupon sign jndgment for bis costs op to the time of 
the pleading of such defeeee anroa the court or a judge shall,
either before or after the delivery of nck oonfession, otberwit1e 
order. 
ORDER XXl. 
STA'fftJ(ENT OF CLAIX. 
1. Subject to rules 2 and 8 of this order, the delivery of atate
ment.a of claim 1hall be regulated aa follows:(a} If the defeod.aat shall not state that lie does not require 
the delivery of a a&&t.ement of claim, file plaintifff abal~ uoles" 
otherwise ordered by the court or a judge. deliver it within sf:I:
WAekll from rhe thne of the defendant's enreriog his appearance. 
(b) Th" plaintifff may, if he think ftt, a.t any time after the
iss11t1 of the writ of summons, dt-liver a statAme11t of claim, with
the writ of 11um11on11 or notice in lieu of writ of summons, or at
auy rine afterwards, either before or after appeanncf', an,1
although the defendant may have appeared and stated that he
rl,,e"' not require the delivery of a etatpmont of 0)11im: Provided
th,~t in no cue wherA a di,fend11nt. ha1 appened shall a statement 
he deliveretl more than six weeks after the appearance baa been
entered, unleee otherwiae ordered by the court or a judge 
(c) Where a p)af.,tiff dtilivt>rs a statement of chiu without
being required to do so, the con-t or a. [udze may make such 
order 88 to the ooets ocoasioned thereby aa sh1JI l'M'em just, if it
appears that the deliflry of a statement of claim was UDlleceesary 
or improper.
2. lo probate actions the plaintifff shall, unless otberwi86 
ordered hy the court or a judge, ,IPJivPr hi.ti statement of claim
within six weeks from the entry of ppH,rance by the itefendant, or
from the time limited for bis appt'arMnoe, in case he has made 
default; but where the defPndaot b11e appeared the plaintifff shall
not be compelled to deliver ft until the expiration of eight days
after the defendant bas filed his affidavits aa to scripts, 
8. In Admfralt7 P.tions in rem the plaintifff shall, within twelve
days from the appearance of the defPndant. deliver his statement of
claim, 
4. Where rbe writ is specially ln-lorsed, and the defendant hlls
not dispensed with a statement of claims, it. shall be sufficient for
the plaintifff to deliver ae his statement of clalm a notice to the
efft"ct that biit cl-Im is that which appears by the indorsemeut
upnn the writ, nnless the court or 11. judge shall order him to 
deliver a. further stottement. Buch notice ma.y bo either writ.ten .. r
priu ted, or partly written and partly printed and may be in the 
Form No. 3 in AJJpt"Drtix (R) hereto, and ehioll ~ marked on the face.-,
iu th" same manner as is required in th" case of an ordinuy ei&tt>ment of clai111. And when the plaintifff is ordered to deliver sach
further statement, it shall he dehvered within such time as by such
order shall be directed, and if no time be so liruited then within the 
time prescribed by role l of this order.
ORDER xxn. 
D.1tPEl!IICL 
1. Where a statement of claim is df'liver .. d to a defendant he
shal! deliver bis defense witltin eight days from the delivery of the
statement of claim, or from the time limited for appearance, whichever shall be laat, unlees such time is extended by the oourt or a
judge. 
:>.. A defendant who bas appeared iu an actlon, and stat.eel that
be does not require the delivery of a statement of claim, and to 
whoni a st11te111.-nt of claim is not delivered, may deliver a defense
at any time within eight d1tys after hie appearance, unless such 
ti11,.- i11 t':l:tended by th .. court or a judge.
3. Where lt1&ve has been given to a defendant to defend under 
Order XIV., rule 1. he ahall dt,liver hid defense, if any, within
euch time u shall be limited by the order giviug him leave to
defend, or if no time ii, thereby limited, then within eight dAys 
after the order.
4. Where the court or a judge shall be of opinion that any alle
gat.ions of fact. denied or not &d~itt.Pd by the defense ought to have
been admitted, the court may make such order u sbAJI be juet with
respect to any extra coe&e ooouioned by their having been denied 
or not 11.dmitted.
6. Where a def Pnd"ot by hia defenett eew up any oouuter-claim 
which raisesqueetiuus betW8ft11 bi,self and the pl~iutiff, along with
any other person or p, rsone, be ehall ad'1 to the title of bis defense 
a further title similar to the tiLle in a sr.at"'"ent of complaint, setting
forth thA 11ame11 of all the persous who, if such oountttr-olai,n were 
to be Pnforoe<i by oroei1 -.otion, woulil be deft,ndanw to such Ol'088 
act.ion, 11.ud sh"ll deliver hi-4 defense to such of them as are parties 
so the a.otion within the period within which he i~ required to
deliver it to the pl11.intilf. 
6. Where any sucb person u in the last preceding rule mentioned is not a party to the setiou, he sh11.ll be summoned to appear
by being served with a oopy of the defense, and such serviee shall
be regulated by tho same rules aa art! hereiubefore contained with
reepect to the service of a writ of summons, and ever1 defense 110 
served shall be iudoreed in the Form No. 4 in Appe~d1x (8) hereto,
or to tht1 like effecL 
7 .Any person not A defendant to the action, who is served with
a defense and eounter-cl-dm llS afol'edllid, must appear thereto as if 
he had been served with a writ of summons to appear iu an action.
8. Any person nllm..d in a defense 118 a p,nty to 11, counter-eleim 
thel't!by made may deliver a reply within the time within which be
might deliv-,r A defenoe if it w11re a statement. of claim. 
9. Where a defendant by bis statement of defense eets up II 
oount.er-claim, if the plalot.iff or ny other person nil med in manner
aforesaid u par1y to such oounter-olaim contends thd the claim 
thereby raii;e,t ought not to be disposed of by way of eounter-claim
bot in an independent action, be may at any time ht-fore reply,
apply to the court or a judge for an order th"t such counterclaim
may be excluded, and the court or a. judge ml\y, on the bearing of 
suoh t.ppllcation, make such order as shall be just,
10. Wht>re in any actiou a set off or counterclaim is eetabhehed 
as a defense against the plintiff's claim, the court may, if the
bal"nce is in favour of the defendant, give judgment for I.be
defendant for such balance. or way otherwise adjudge to the
defendant. such relief as he may be entitled to upon the merits of 
the C88t'I. 
11. In probate actions the party opposing a will may, with hit'
defense, give notieo to the ptlrty s.-tl.iog up the will that he merely
in,sists upon the will being proved in solemn form of law, and only
intends to cross-examine the whn888t'8 produced in support of the
will, and he shall thereupon be at liberty to do so, and sb11.II be
subject to the same liabilities in respect of ooets as he would have 
beeo under similar oiroumstanoee according IO the practice of the
Court of Probate, 
O RD E R XX II I. 
DIBCOl'fTll'fUAlfC& 
The plaintifff may, at any time before receipt of the defendant'11
atatemt'nt of defense, Qr after the receipt thereof before taking any
other proceeding In the action (save any iuterlocutory application), 
by notice fn writing, wholly di.scontiuuo bis action or withdraw
any part or parts of hie alleged cause of complaint, and thereupon
be aball pay the defendant's eosta of the action, or, if the action be
not wholly diacontinued, the defendant's costs occasioned by the
matter so withdrawn. Such costs shall be taxed, n.nd such dis
ountinnance or withdrawal, aa the case ml\y be, slu,U not be a. 
defenoe to any subsequent action, Save as in this rule otherwise
provided, it shall not be competent for the plaintifff to withdraw the
record or discontinue the action without leave of the court or a
judge, but the court or a judge may, before, or at, or after the 
hearing or trial, upon s11oh terms aa to costs, and as to any otLer
action, and otherwise as may seem fit, order the action to be dis
eontinued, or any part of the alleged cause of complaint to be
struck out. The court or & judge may, in like manner, and with
the like discretion aa to terms, upon the application of a defendant, 
order the whole or an1, part of hie alleged grounds of defeuee or
counterclaim to be withdrawn or struck out, but it shall not be
competent to a defendant to withdraw his defense, or any part 
thereof, without such leave. 
ORDER XXIV. 
RKPLY A.liD 8UBSEQUE!'IT PLEADINGS. 
1. A plaintifff shall deliver his reply, if any, within three Wet'ks 
after the defense or the IA.st of the defenses shall ba.vo been delivered, unless the timt1 shall be extended by the court or a judge, 
2. No plea.din~ subsequent to reply other than a joinder of Issue
shall be pleaded withod leave of the court or a judge, and tben 
upon auoh terms as the court or judge shall thiuk tit..
3. Subsequent to tho last preoediug rule, every pleading subse
quent to rtiply shall be delivered within four days after tho delivery
of the previous pleading, unless the time sb~U be extended by the 
court or a judge. 
ORDER XXV. 
CLOS& UP' PLEADI!'fo& 
As soon u either party bu joined Issue upon any plosding of
the opposite party simply without adding any further or other
pleading thereto, the pleadings as between such parties ahall be 
deemed to be closed. 
ORDER XXVI. 
l88UK8. 
Where lo any a.otlon it appears to a judge that the statement
of claim or defense or reply does not enfficiently define the tissues
of fact in dispute between the parties, Lie may direct the part.ice to 
prepare iuuee, and aucb iaaue11 shall, if the parties differ, be eettled 
by the judge. _ 
ORDER XX.VII 
.Alo1fDX&NT OF PLLU>Uf08. 
1. The ooort or a judge may, at any stage of the proceedings,
allow either party to all.er hie statement of claim or defense or
reply, or may order Lo be struck out or amended any matter in such
atatemen'8 respecnvcly which may be ec&odalous, or which may
tend Lo prejudice, erubarraaa, or delay the fair trial of the action, 
and all such ameodmeota shall be ma.de u may be oeceeaary for the
purpose of determining I.he real que11.iona or question In cont.roveny 
between the parties.
2. 'rhe plaintifff may, without any leave, amend hie statement of 
claim onoe at any time before the expiration of Ille time limited for
reply, and before replying, or, where no defense i8 delivered, at any
time before tbe Hp1ration of four weeks from I.be appearance of the
defend&nt who shall have laat appeared. 
8. A defendant who bu llt!t up in hla defense any set-off or
counterclaim may, without any leave, amend such set.off or 
eounter-olaim at any timo before the expiration of the time allowed
him for pleading Lo the reply, aud before pleading thereto, or in 
C&110 there be no replj', then at any time before the expiration of
twenty-eight days from the filing of hitt defense. 
4. Where any party hll.8 amended hie pleading under either of
the lut two preceding roles, the opposite party may, within eight
days after the deliYery to him of the amended pleading, apply Lo the 
court or a judge Lo disallow the amendment, or any part thereof,
and the court or judge may, if satisfied that the justice of the case
requires it, disallow the same, or allow it subjectto such terms aa 
to costs or otherwise as may seem jusL
6. Where auy party bu amended his pleading under rule 2 or 8 
of this order the other party may apply to the court or IL judge for
leave to plead or amend hie former pleading within such time and
upon such terms 88 may seem just. 
6. In all cases not provided for by the preceding rules of thla
order, application for leave to amend any pleading may be made by
either party to the court or a judge in chambers, or to the judge at 
the trial of the action, and such amendment ma1 be allowed upon
such terms 1U1 Lo coete or otherwise aa may seem JUSt. 
7. If a party who h11& obtained ao order fur leave to amend a
pleadiug delivered by him does not amend the same within the
time limited for that purpose by the order, or if no tiwe is thereby 
limited, then within fourteen days from the date of the order, such
order Lo amend shall, on the expiration of such limited time as
aforesaid, or of such fourteen daye, aa the case may be, become ipao 
facto void, unlese the time is extended by the court or a judge. 
8. A pleading may be amended by written alterations in the
pleading which has been delivered, and by additions on paper Lo be
interleaved therewith if neceeauy, unless the amendments require
the insertion of more than 144 words in any one place, or are so
numerous., or of such a nature that the malting them in writing
would render the pleading difficult or inoonveuieot Lo read, in 
either of which cues the amendment mU8t be made by delivering
a print of the pleading as amended. 
9. WhenevPr any pleading is amended, such pleading when
&mt>nded shall be marked with the date of the order, if any, under
which the same ia so ameudod, and of the day on which such
amendment is madt>. In manner following, vis.: -" Amt>nded
dav of ." 
io. Whenever a pleading is amended, such amPnded pleading
shall be delivered to the opposite party whhiu the time allowed for 
amending the same. 
ORDER XX.VIII. 
DIDIUR(UCB. 
1. Any party may demur to ar:iy pleading of the opposite party
or to any part of a pleading aetting up a di-ttinct cause of 11ction
ground of defense, EW'!t-otf, eounter-claim, reply, or, RB the <'8.80 niay 
be. on the irround that the facts alleged tbPrein do not show any
cause of action, or ground of defense to a claim or any part thereof,
or St!t-off, or counterclaim, or reply, or, as the caee may be, to
which tofff'Ct Caln be given by the court as 11gainst the party 
demurring.
2. A demurrer shall stat~ 11pecifl<.".all{ whether it le to the whole 
or to a part, and if tin, to what part, o the plt>ading of the opposite
party. It shall stllte some p:rou11d in law for the demum-r, but 
the p11rty demurring shall not. on the 11rgument of the demurrer,
be limited to the g,-ound so stated. A demurrer mAy he in thP
Form 28 in Appendix (0) hereto. Jf there is no ground, or only a
frivolous ground of demurrer stated, the court or judge may IH't
aside such demurrer with co .. t,., 
8. A demurrer 11hll be delivered inthf' BR me m11nrwr and within
the same time u any other pleading in the action. 
4. A defendant desiring to demur to part of a stAlement of claim,
and to put in a defense to the other part. eh&ll <'otnbine such 
demurrer and defense in one pleadiug. And so in evt'ry case where
a party entitled to put in a further pleading dt!tfirOII to demur to
part of the Ill.St pleading of the opposite party he shall combine 
such demurrer and other pleading. 6. If the lJRl"ty demurring desiree to he 11.t libt,rt.y to plt'1"1 aa well 
as demur to the matter demurred to, he n1ay, before demui ring,
apply to Uui court or a judge for an order giving him leave to do
so; and the court or judge, if s11.ti11flPd that there is reasonable 
ground for the demurrer, may tuake an order accordingly, or may
reserve leave to him to plead after the demurrer is overruled, or 
ma7 makP such other order and upon such terms as may be just,
6, When a demurrer either to the whole or part of a pleadinrf is 
delivered, either party m11y enter the demurrer for nrgumeut rmmedint,>ly, and the party so entering such demurrer shall on the 
same da.y give notice thereof to the othrr pArty. If the demurrer
shall not be entered. and notice thereof given within ten days after
delivery, and if the party wh068 JJltading is demurred to does not
within such time serve an order fcr leave to ameud, the demurrer 
sbalJ be held eufflciPnt for the same purpuSt-11 and with tbe same
result as to coats aa if it bad been allowed on argument. 
7. While a demurrer to the whole or a11y part of a pleading ia
pending, such pleading shall not be amended, unlesa by order of 
the oourt or a judge ; and ao saeb order shall bP made esoept on
payment of the OOflte of the demurrer. 
8. Wh"re a demurrer to the whole or part of any pleadiDlf ill
allowed upon 11rgament, the party wboee ,pleading 111 dftnumod to 
11ball. unleu the court otherwisd order, pay to the demurring
party the costs of the demurrer. 
9 If a demurrer to the whole of a ltatemcnt of c)afm be allowed,
the plaintifff, subject to the power of the court to 11llow the 11tate111Pnt of claim to be amended, ellall pay to the df'lllurring defendant 
the coets ,of the action, unleee the court shall otbenriee order.
10. Where a demurrer to any ple ,ding or part of a pleading fa 
allowed in any "'118 not falling within the 1111,t pT't'('eding rule, tbf'tl 
(nbjeot t.o the power of the court to allow an amendmflllt) the
mll&ter demurred t.o eball u between the partiee to the demurrer he 
deemed to be struck out of the pleadingw, and the rigbte of the
partit's 11hall be the eame aa if it bad not been pleaded. 
1 l . Where a demurrer i11 overruled, the dAwur,iog party hall
pay to the opposite party the coste occasloeed by the demw-rer, 
uult-1111 the court 11ball otherwiH direct,
12. Wherti a demurrer ia OYt>rruli,d the court may make such 
order, aud upon such terma as to the oourt shall seem righ', for
allowing tho demurring party to raiae by pleading any cue be may
be desir11us to set up in opposition to the matter demurred to. 
18. A demurrer shall be entered for argument by delivering to
the proper officer a m1:moraudum of entry ill the Form No. 29 lo 
Appendix (C). 
ORDER XXIX. 
Ditl"AULT OF PLltADINO. 
1. If the plaintifff, being bound to deliver a statement of claim.
does not deliver the eame within the time allowed for that purpose,
the defendant may, at the e:r.ph"tion of that time, apply to the
court or a judge to di11miM the action with coats for want of proeecotion, and on the b .. aring of such application the court or judge
may, if no stattnoent of claim ha Ye ht-en delivered, order the c\ion
to be dismisiwd secordingly, or may n,ake such other order on such 
terms as to the court or Judge shall seem just.
2. If the plaintifff's claim be only for a debt or liquidated demand, 
and the deleudant does not, within the time allowed for tha, pur, 
poae, deliver a defense or demurrer, the plaintifff may, at the expiration of such time, enter final judgment for the amount claimed,
with costs. 
8. When in any sueh action u in the 111 .. t preceding rule mention.ed there are several defendants, if one of thf'm make default 1111 
mentioned in the last preceding rule. the pl11intiff may enter final
judgment agah111t thed,.fendant eo makingdPfanlt.. and iMue necu
tion upon sueb judgment without prejudice to bis right to proceed
with his action atrllinst the other defendauta. 
4. If the plaintifff's claiin be for detention of goods and pecuniary
damar. or eitbflr of them, and the defendant mAk"8 ilefault a11 
mentinn.-d in rule 2, the pl11intiff may enter 110 ioterloeutory
judgment against the defendant, and a writ of inquiry Phll i8ll11e 
to &lldel8 the value of the l()Ode. and the damagm, or the damages 
only, u the cue may be. l3ut tho court or a judge may order that, 
instead of a writ of inquiry, the valoe aod amount of damages, or
either of them, shall be uoertained in any way in which any quee
Uon arising in an action may be tried.
5. When in any such action aa in rule mentioned there are 
1evoral defendants, if 011e of them make default as mentioned in
role 2, the plaintifff may enter an interlocutory judgment against
the defendant eo making default, and proceed with his action against 
the others. And in such cue, damages against the defendant
making default shall be aaaeseed at the same time with the trial of
the action or isauee therein against the other defendants, unless
the court or a judge shall otherwise direct, 
6. If the plaintifff's claim be for a debt or liquidated demand, and
also for detention of goods and pecuniary damages, or pecuniary 
damages only and the defendant makes default M mentioned in
role 2, the plaintifff may enter final judgment for the debt or liquidated demand, and also enter interlocutory judgment for the value 
of the goods and the damages, or the damages only, BB the case may
be. and proceed as mentioned in rule 4. 
7. In an action for the recovery of land, if the defendant makes
default as mentioned in rule 2, the plaintifff may enter a judgment 
that the person whoee title is aseerted in the writ of summons
shall recover poeseeaion of the land, with his ooste. 
8. Where the plaintifff has iudorsed a. claim for mesne profits,
arrears of rent, or damages for breach of contract upon a writ for
the recovery of land, if the defendant makes default as mentioned
in rule 2, or if there be more than one defendant, some or one of
the defendants make such default, the plaintifff may enter judg
ment against the defaulting defendant or delendants, a.od proceed as
mentioned in rules 4 and 5. 
9. In probate actions, if any defendant make default in filing and
delivering & defense or demurrer, the action may proceed, notwith
standing such default.
10. Io all other actions than those in the preceding rules of this 
order mentioned, if the defendant makes default in delivering a
defense or demurrer, the plaintifff may set down the action or 
motion for judgment.. and such judgment shall be given as upon
the statement of claim the court shall consider the plaintifff to be 
ent.iUed to. 
11. Where, in any such action as mentioned in the last preceding
rule, there are sever&) defendants, then, if one of such defendants
make such default as afores&ld, the plaintifff may either set. down
the action a.t once on motion for judgment against the defendant so
making default, or may set it down against him at the time when it 
ia entered for trial or set down on motion for judgmout against the
other defendants. 
12. If the plaintifff does not deliver a reply or demurrer, or any
party does not deliver any subsequent pleading, or a demurrer, 
within the period allowed for that purpose, the pleadings shall be
deemed to be closed a.t the expinUion of thllt period, and the state
menta of fact in the pleading last delivered ahall be deemed to be
admitted. 
13. In any cue ill whioh 18suee ariso in an aotion other than 
between plaintifff and defendan~ if any party to any such issue
makes default in delivering any pleadins, the opposite party may
apply to the court or a judge for sncb judgment, if any, IL8 upon 
the pleadings be may appear to be entitled to, And the court may
order judgment to be entered accordingly, or may make such other
order u way be neceeaary to do complete jut.ice between the 
parties.
14. Any judgment by defaol~ whether under tbfa order or under 
any other of these ruled, may be set a.aide by the court or a judge,
upon eueb terms as to coet.a or otherwise u such court or judge 
may think fit. 
PAYJIKNT DITO COURT DI 8ATI8FACTI01', 
1. Where any action is brought to recover a debt or dama.getr,
any dl'fendant may at any time after service of the writ, and before
or at the time of delivering bis defense, or by leave of the court or 
a judge at any later time, pay into court & sum of money by
way of satisfaction or amenda. Payment into court shall be
pleaded in the defense, and the claim or cause of action in respect 
of. which such payment shall be made shall ho specified therein.
2. Such sum of money shall be paid to the proper officer, who 
shall give a receipt for the same. If such payruent be made before
delivering bis defense the defendant shall thereupon serve upon the
plaintifff a notice tl111t he ha.s paid in such money, and in respect of 
what claim, in the Form No. 5 in Appendix (B.) hereto. 
3. Money paid into court as aforesaid may, unless otherwise
ordered by a judge, be paid out to the plaintifff', or to bis solicitor 
on the written authority of the plaintiff. No affidavit shall be
necessary to verify the plaintifff'11 si~ature to such written authority
unless specially required by the officer of the court. 
4. The plaintifff, if payment into court is made before delivering
a defense, may within four days after receipt of notice of such
payment, or if such payment is first stated in & defense delivered
then may before reply, accept the same in satisfaction of the causes 
of action in respect of which it is paid in; in which case he shall
give notice to the defendant in the Form No. 6 in Appendix (8.)
hereto, and i,hall be 11.t liberty, in case the sum paid iu is acceptea 
in satisfa.ction of the entire cause of action, to tax bis coste, and,
in case of non-payment within forty.eight hours, to sign judgment 
for bis costs so taxed. 
ORDER XXX. 
ORDER XXXI. 
DISCOVERY AND INSPECTION. 
1. Tbe pl11.intiff may, at the time of delivering hie statement of
claim, or at any subsequent time not later than the close of the
pleadings, and a defendant may, at tbt, time of delivering his defense,
or at any subsequent time not later than the close of the pleadings.
without any order for that purpose, and either party may at any
time, by leave of the court or a judge, deliver iuterrogatories in
writing for the examination of the opposite party or parties, or
any one or more of such ~rties, with a note at the foot thereof,
stating which of such mterrogatories each of such persons ia
required to answer: Provided that no party shall deliver more than 
one set of inkrrogatoriee to the a&me party without an order for
that purpose. 
2. The oourt in adjuting the C08t8 of the action shall at lhe
Instaace of any party inquire or e&1186 inquiry to be made into the
propriety of nhibitinj,!' such interrogatories, and if it is the opinioo 
of tlie taxing master or of the court or jodJle that such interrogatories bav-, been exhibited unreaaonably, vesatiolll41y, or at hu
proper length, the oosta oecasloued by the said iuterrogatori,w and
the aD&Wt'rs thereto shall be borne by the party in (aulL 
8. Interrogatories my be in the F ... rm No. 7 in Appendb: (B.)
hereto, with such varie.tions a& circumstances may require. 
4. If any party to an action be a body corporate or a joint atock
company, whether incorporated or not, or ny other body of persoue,
empowered by law to sue or be sued, whether in its own name or
in the name of any officer or other person, any opposite party may
apply at cbambers for an order allowing him to deliver ioterrogatoril'tl to any member or officer of such eorporatiou, company, or
body, 11.nd an order may t.e made aeeording ly, 
5. Anv pArty called upon to answer interrogatoriPs, whether
by himself or by RDY member or officer, may, within four days after
8t'rYice of the Interrogatories, apply at chambera to strike out Any
interrogatory, on the ground that it is scandalous or irrelevant, 01
is not put bond ld6 for the purposes of the action, or that the
matter Inquired after le not sufficieutly material at tbt. stage of the
action, or on any other ~round. And the judge, if satlsfled that
any interrogatory is objectionable, may ord .. r it to be struck out. 
6. Interrogstoriea sh" 11 be answPred by affldiA vit to be flied within
ten daya, or within such other time as a judge mRy allu,ir, 
7. An affidavit in answer to interrogatories shall. unless otherwilM' ordered by a judge, if exceeding three folfoe, be printed and 
may be In the Form No. 8 in Appendix (8.) hereto, with such
vari..tions as circumstances may require. 
8. Any objection to answering any interrogatory may be taken,
and the ground thereof stated in the affidavit. 
9. No exceptions shall be tabn to any affld11vit in answer, but
the sufficiency or otberwiee of any such affidavit olijected to aa 
insufficient shall be determined by tbe court or a judge on motion
or summons. 
10. If any peraon Interrogated omits to answer, or answors
insufficiently, the puty interrogating may apply to tho court or a
judfl-e for an order requiring him to answer, or to answer further,
as the cast> may be, And an order may be made requiring him to
answer or auswer further either by affidavit or by tiitt4 ~ 
eumination, as the judge may direct.
11. It shall be lawful for the court or a judge at any ti01e 
duriug the pendoncy tht>rein of any action or proceeding, to order
the product.ion by ,my p,trty thereto, upon oath, of HUch of the
docun,ents in his possession or power, rele.ting to any matter in 
question in such action or proceeding, as the court or jucl.,re shall
think right; and the court may deal with such documente, when
produced, tu such manner as shall appear just. 
12. Any party m,y, without ftling any affidavit. apply to & judge
for uu order directing any other party to Lbe action to make dis- 
oovery on oath of the documents which are or ba'f'e been in his
poseeesion or power, rd.1tiug t.o a~y 1uatter in queeUon in the
action. 
18. The affidavit &o be made by a party againet whom such
order aa is meutioued in the fa:1t preceding rule h118 beeu 
made, shall specify which (if auy) uf th6 documents tl.tt'reiu
mentioned, he objects to produce, and it may be in the F,mn No. 9
in Appendix (8) hereto, with t1uch variations as circumstauces may
require. 
14.Every party to au act.iou or other proceeding shall be en
titled, at any time before or at the bearing thereof, by notice fn
writiDf, to give notice to auy other party, in whoee pleadings or 
affidavits reference ia made to any document, to produce such document for the inspection of the p11rty giving such notice. or of bi11
solicitor, aod to permit him or Lhem to take copies thereof; and a111
party not complying with such notice shall not "fterwards be at
libt,rty to put auy such document in evidence on his behalf in such
ACtiou or proceeding, unlees he sh111l satisfy the court that. such
document relates only to his own tit.le, he being 11. rlt>f .. udxnt to the 
setion, or that be bad some other sufficient cause for not complying
with such notice. 
16. Notice to any party to produce any documents referred to in
bia pleading or effldavits shall be in the Form No. 10 in Appendix 
(B) hereto,
16. The party to whom such notice is given shall, within two 
days Irom the receipt of such notice, if all the documents therein
referred to have been set forth by him in such effldavits 88 ia mentioned in rule 18, or if any of the documents referred to in such 
uotiee have not been set forth by him in any such Rffid11.v1t., then
within four days from the receipt of such notice, deliver to the
party giving the saqie a uotioe stating a time within thrt!41 day11
from tne delivery thereof at. which the documents, or eueh of them 
ll8 he does not object t.o produce, ru"y be inspected at the office of
hia solicitor, and 11t&ting which (if any) of the documents be objects 
to produce, and OD what ground. Suen notice may be in the} orm
.No. 11 in Appendix (B) hereto, with such nriat.iona as ciroumet.auCt'S may require. 
17. If tut1 party served with notice under rule 16 omits t.o g-lve
such notice of a time for inspection, or objects to give inspection, 
the party desiring it may apply to a. judge for an order for
inspection. 
18. Every application for an order for inspection of documents
sh11.ll be to a judge. And except in the case of documents 
+referred to in the pleadiuga or affld" vits of the party against whom 
the application ia made, or disclosed in its affidavits of documents,
such application shall ho founded upon au affidavit showing of
what documents inapectiou is sought, that the party applying is
entitled to inspect. them, and that they are in the possession or 
power of the other party.
19. If the party from whom discovery of any kind or inspection 
fa sought objects to the ea.me, or any part. thereof, the court. or a
judge may, tf s"tisfltd that the right to the discovery or inspection 
sought depends on the determination of any issue or queist.ion iD 
dispute in the action, or that for any other reason it Is deeirable
that any iuue or question in dispute in the action should be determined before deciding upon the right to the discovery or inspection, 
order that such iaaue or question be determined first, and reeerve
the questicn as to the dieoovery or inspection. 
20. If anr party fails to comply with any order to answer
interrogatones, or for discovery or inspection of documents, be shall 
be liable to attachment. He shall also, if a plaintifff, be liable to
have his action dismissed for want of prosecution, and, if a defendant, to have bis defense, if any, struck out, and to be plaoed in 
the same poeition as if be had not defended, and tbe party interrogating may apply to the court or a J'udge for an order to that 
effect, and an order may be made accor ingly.
21. Service of an order for discovery or inspection made against 
spy party on hie solicitor shall be sufficient IH'nice to found an .
application for an attachment for disobedience to the order. But 
the party ~ainst whom the application for an attachment is made
may show m answor to the application that he has had no notice 
or knowled~ of the order.
22. A solicitor upon whom an order against any party for dis
covery or inspection is served under the last rule. who neglects
without reasonable excuse to give notice thereof to his client, ahall 
be liable to uttachment.
23. Any party may, at the trial of an action or issuP, use in 
evidence any one or more of the answers of the opposite party ao 
interrogatories without putting in the others: Provided always,
that in such case the judge may look at the whole of the answers,
and if he shall be of opinion that any other of them are so
connected with thoee put in that the last-mentioned ansera
ought not to be used withuut them, he may direct them to be 
put in. 
ADMIS8IONS. 
1. Any pa.rty to an action may give notice, by bis own statement
or otherwise, that he admits the truth of the whole or any part of 
the case stated or referred to in the statement of claim, defense, or
reply of any other party. 
2. Either party may call upon the other party to admit any
document, saving all just exceptions; and in case of refusal or 
neglect to admit, after such notice, the costs of proving any such
document shall be paid by the party so neglecting or refusing,
whatever the result of the action may be,._ uuless at the bearing or
trial the court certify that the refusal to aamit was reuonable; and
no costs of proving any document shall be allowed unlese such 
notice be given, except where the omisaion to give the notice is, in
the.opinion of the taxing officer, a aaving of expense. 
8. A notice to admit documents may be in the Form No. 12 in
Appendix (8) hereto. 
4. An atlldavit of the solicitor or hie clerk, of the due signature
of any admissions made in pursuance of any notice to admit
documents, and annexed to the affidavit, shall be 1ufflcieat 
evidence of such adruiasions. 
ORDER XXXII. 
OBDER XXXIII. 
bQutRIBB AlfD AocoUlffll.
The court or a judge may, at any stage of the proceedings hi 
a cause or matter, direct any necesaary inquiries or accounts to 
be made or taken, notwithstanding that it may appear that there
is some special or further relief sought f~1 or some epecial lane 
to be tried, u to which it may be proper I.bat the caue or matter
should proceed in the ordinary manner. 
ORDER XXXIV. 
QUK8'110:lf8 OF I.AW. 
1. The parties may, after the wrh of aummona bu been baaed, 
concur in stating the queatione of law arising in the action in the
form of a special cue for the opinion of the courL Every such
special case shall be divided into paragrapba numbered eonsecu
tively, and shall concisely 1tate such facts and document. u may
be oooeSB&ry to enable the court to decide the queetiona raised
thereby. Upon the argument of such cue the court and the
parties shall be at liberty to refer to the whole content. of each
documents, and the court shall be at liberty to draw from t.he 
facts and documents stated in any such special caee any iuferenoe,
whether of fact or law, which might have been drawn therefrom 
if proved at a trial.
2. If it appear to the court or a judge, either from the at.ate
ment of claim or defense or reply or otherwiae, that there la fn any
action a question of law, which it would be convenient to have
decided before any evidence is given or any question or i88ue of
fact is tried, or before any reference is made to a referee or an 
arbitrator, the court or judge may make an order accordingly, and
may direct such question of law to be raised for the opinion of the 
court, either by special case or In such other manner u the court
or judge may deem expedient, and all auch farther prooeedinga u 
the decision of aucb question of law may render unneoesaary may 
thereupon be stayed.
8. Every special case shall be printed by the plaintifff, and aigned 
by the several parties or their solicitors, and shall be fined by the
plaioLiff. Printed copies for the nae of the judgea shall be delivered
by the plaintifff. 
4. No special cue in aa action to which a married woman,
infant, or person of unsound mind la a party shall be set down for
argument without leave of the oourt or a judge. the applicatio
for which must be supported by sufficient evidence that the state
ments contained in such special cue, so far u the 1&111e affect the
interest of such married woman, infant, or per90n of uDIOUDd 
mind, are true.
6. Either party may enter a special C&Be for argument by 
delivering to the proper officer a memorandum of entry, in the 
Form No. 18 io Appendix (B) hereto, and also if any married
woman, infant, or person of unsound mind be a party to the 
action, producing a copy of the order giving leave to enter the
same for argument. 
ORDER XXXV, 
PBOCUDJ1'08 IX Dl8TKICI' REol8TRIES. 
1. Where an actiou proceeds in the dist.riot registry all pru.
eeedings, HOt!pt. where by these rules it. ie ot.berwiaie provided, or 
tho court or a [udge shall otherwise order, shall be taken in the
dlat.riot. registry, duwn to aud including the entry for trial of ,be
&etion or iitatues sherein ; or if the plaintifff is entitled to 110'81' 
flu.I judgment or to obtain an order for an account by reason of
t.lJe d11fault of t.lJu dureud.nt., then down to and including eucb
judtcmeot. or order; and such judgmt1nt. or order u laat. aforeeaid
sbaTl be entered in the didt.rict registry in the proper book, in lhe
.. me 11,anuer as a likts jurigment. or ord-r in an action proceeding 
in London would be entered iu London, Where the writ of summons iat i88ued out of a di.itt.rict rt-giatry and the plaiutiff ie entitled to cuter interlocuLory judgment under Order Xlll., rule 6. 
or where the action proceeds in the district regbtry and the pl11in 1iff
iat eutitlt,d to enter interlucuiury judgment. under Order XX.IX., 
ruleor 5, in either case such mterlocut.ury judgment, and, when
damag.;.. sh1tll hue been aaseesed, final judgment shall be entered
in the di.strict rt-gistry, uuleaa the court or a judge slui.11 otherwise 
order.
Where an action proceeds in the district. l't'gistry flual judgment 
shall be entered in the districi registry unleea the judge at the trial
or the court or a judge sh&ll otherwiae order. 
2. Subject to the foregoin1t rules. where an act.ion proceeds in tbe 
district regis\r1 tbe judgment and all such orders therein 118 require
to be entered, exoopt orders made b1 tLe district regiatrar under 
tbe aut.l,orit.y and jurisdiction vested m him under these rules, i,hall
be enteeed in London, and a.n office copy of every judgment aud
order eo entered sh11,IJ be tra&D8tuitt6d to the district regilte,ry to ht! 
1llt1d with the proceedings in the action.
8. Where an action proceeds iu tilt, Ji11trict regillt.'7 all writ, of 
execution for enforcing atty judgmeut or order tbereia shall iasue
from tue district registry, unleae the court or a judge shall otherwiBu direct, Where dnal j11dgcut1nt ia entered in Lhe district rt!tfiatry 
oosts shall be taxed in such regi&tr1 uuleljll the court or a Judge
shall olherwise order. 
4. Where an action proceeds in a diltrioi ngi8&.ry the diet.riot
ri,giat.rar may t,Xercise all such authority ancl jart.diction in
respect of the action 1\8 may be txercided by a judge at chambers,
except such aa by these rules a mNster of the Q11een's Bench, 
Common Pleas, or Exchequer Divisions Ml precluded from exercising. 
6. Every application to a district registrar shall be made in the
aame manner in which applicattone at chawbers are directed to be 
made by these rulee,
6. If auf matter appears to the di11trict regje;trar proper for the 
deciirion o a judge, the registrar may n,fer the same to a judg,
and t.be judge way either dispose of the matter or refer the same
back Lo the registrar, with 11uch direct.ions as he may think fiL 
7. Any person affected by auy order or decision of a diatrict
registrar way appeal to a. judge. Such appeal way be mad-, not- 
withstanding that the order or decision was in respect or a proceeding or matter aa to which the district registrar had [urisdiotlon
only by consent, Such appeal shall be by summons within four
days after the decision complained of, or such further time u may
be allowed by a judge or the registrar. 
8. An appt,al from a district ~tr&r shall be no stay of
proceedings unlese 80 ordered by a judge or the registrar. 
9. EvMy district registrar and other officer of a district re~try
shall be subject to the orders and directions of the court or a Judge
u fully as any other officer of the court, and every proceeding in a
districl registry shall be subject to the control of the court or a
judge, as fully as a like proceeding in London. 
10. Every reference to a judge by or appeal to a judge from a
district registrar in any action in the Chancery division shall be to 
the judge to whom the a ... 'tion is 1188igned.
11. In any action which would, under the foregoing rulee, pro
ceed in the district registry, any defendant may remove the action
from the district registry as of right in the caaee, and within the 
times, following: .
Where the writ is specially indorsed under Order III., rule 6, 
and the plaintifff does not within four days after the appearance of such defendant give notico of an application for an
order against him under Order XIV. ; then such defendaut
may remove the action as of right at any time after the ex
piration of such four days, and before delivering a defense, and
before the expiratiou of the time for doing so : 
Where the writ is specially iudorsed and the plaintifff has made
such application aa in the last paragraph mentioned, and the
defendant bas obtained leave to defend in manner provided
by Order XIV.; then such defendant may remeve the action
as of right at any time after the order giving him leave to
defend, and before delivering a defense and before the expira
tion of the time for doing so :
Where the writ is not specially indorsed any defendant may 
remove the action as of right at any time after ap~rance, and
before delivering a defense, and before the expiratiou of the
time for doiog so. 
12. Any defendant desirous to remove an action as of right
under the last preceding rule may do so by serving upon the other 
partiee to the actioq, and delivering to the district registrar a
notice, signed by himself or bis solicitor, to the effect that he
desires the action to be removed to London, and the action shall
be removed accordingly. Provided, that if t.be court or a jadge
shall be aat.isfied that the defendant giving such notice is a merely
formal dl'fendant, or bas no substantial cause to interfere in the 
conduct of the action, such court or judge ma.y order that the
action may proceed in the district reg1Bt.ry notwithstanding such 
notice.
18. In any cue not provided for by the last two }?receding rules, 
any party to an action proceeding in a district registry may apply
to the court or a judge, or to the district registrar, for an order to
remove the action from the district registry to London. and such
court, judge, or regtstrsr, may make au order accordingly, if 
sat.iafled that there ia sufflcie11t reason for doing so, upon auch
terms, if any, as shdl seem just. 
Any party to an action proceeding in London may apply to the
court or a judge for an order to remove the action from London to
any district registry, and such court or judge may make an order
accordingly, if satisfied that there is 1mfflcient reason for doing so, 
upon such terms, if ,my, as shall seem just.
14. Whenever any proceedings are removed from the diatrict 
registry to London, the district registrar shall transmit to the
proper officer of the High Court of Justice all original documents 
(if any) flied in the district regi11try, and & copy of all eotriee in the
boob of the district registry of the proceedings in the action. 
ORDER XXXVI. 
TRIAL. 
1. There shall be no local venue for the trial of any action, but
when the plaintifff proposee to have the action tried elsewhere than
in ?diddlet-ex, be shall in his statement of claim name the county or
place in which be proposes that the action shall be tried, and Lhe
action shall, unless a judgo otberwiae orders, be tried in the
county or place so named. Where no place of trial is named in the 
statement. of claim, the flace of trial shall, unlese a judge otherwise
order, be the county o Middlesex. Any order of a jud,e, as to 
sucb place of trial, may be discharged or varied by a Divisional
Oourt of the High Court. 
2. Actions shall be tried and beard either before a judge or
judges, or before a judge &itting with assessors, or before a judge
and jury, or before an official or special referee, with or wit.bout
&88essors. 
8. Subject to the provisions of the following roles, the plaintifff
m11y, with his reply, or at any time after the close of the pleading&,
give notice of trid of tho action, and thereby &pecify one of the
modes mentioned in rule 2; sud the defendant may, upon giving 
notice within four days from the time of tho service of the notice
of trial, or within such extended time u a court or judge may
allow, to the effect that. he desires to have the issues of fact tried
before a judge and jury, be entitled to have the same so tried. 
4. Subject to the provisione of the following rules, if the plaintifff
does not within six weeks after the close of the pleadings, or
within such extended time as a court or judge may allow, give 
notice of trial, the defendant may, before notice of trial given by
the plaintifff, give notice of trial, and thereby specify oue of the
modes mentioned in rule 2; and in such case the plaintifff', on 
giving notice within the time fixed by rule 8 that he desires to 
have the Issuee of fact tried before a. judge or jury, be entitled to 
have the same so tried. 
a. In aoy ClUIO in which neither tho plintiff nor defoudnL hR.8
given notice under the preceding rules that he desiree to have the 
U8Ul'8 of fact tried before a judge and jury, or in any oue within
the oiLh section of the Act, if the ple.iutift' or defeudant de11ires to
ban t.he action tried in any other mode thau that specified in the 
notice of trial, he shall apply to the court or a judge for an order 
to that etfeot, within four davs from the tiiue of the service of
the notice of trial, or withinsuch extended time as a court or
judge may allow. 
6, Subject to tbe pr0Yisiont1 of the prereding rules, the court or
a judge may, in au1 action at any time or from time to time, order
that different questions of fact arising therein be tried by different
modes of trial, or that one or more questions of fact be tried before 
the others, and may appoint the place or plaoee for such trial or
trials, and in all c11sea may order that one or more issues of fact
bA tried lilefore any other or othera. 
7. Every trial of any question or iaeae of fact by a jury shall bo
held before a single judge, unlees such trial be specially ordered to
be held before two or more judges. 
8. Notice of trial shiwl state whethl'r it is for the trial of the
action or or i88ues therein; and in actions in the Queen's Bench, 
Common Plese, and Exchequer Divisions, the place and day for
which it is entered for trial. It may be in the Form No. 14 in 
Appendix (8). with such variations as circumstances may require.
9. Ten days notice of trial shall be given, unless the party to 
whom it is given has consented to take short notice of trial ; and
shall be sufficient in all c&8-08, unless otherwise ordered by the 
court or a judge. Short notice of trfal shall be four days notice.
10. Notice of trial shall be given before entering the action for 
trial.
11. Notice of trial for London or Middlesex shall not be or 
operate as for any particular sittings; but 11b&ll be deemed to be
for any day llfter the expiration of the notice on which the action
may oome on for trial in its order upon the list. 
12. Notice of trial elsewhere than in London or Middlesex shall
be deemed to be for the first day of the then next assizes at the
place for which notice of trial is given. 
13. No notice of trial shall be countermanded, except by consent,
or by lt'ave of the court 01a judge, which leave may be given
subject to such terms 88 to costs, or otherwise, as ruay be j1111t. 
14, If the party giving notice of trial for London or Middloeex
omits to enter the action for trial on the day or day after giving
notice of trial, the party to whom notice has been given may,
unless the notice bas been countermanded under the l&Bt rule, 
witbiu four days enter the action for trial. . 
lo. If notice of trial is given for elsewhere tb,m in London or
Middlesex, either party may enter the action for trial. H both
parties onter the action for trial, it shall be tried in the order or the 
plaintifff's entry.
16. The list or lists of actions for trial at the sittings in London 
and Middlesex respectively sh11ll be prepared, and th~ actions shall
be allotted for trial without reference to the diTision of tho High 
Court to which such actions may be attached.
17. 1'he party entoriug the action for trial 11h11ll d-liver to the 
officer a oopy of the wholt, of the pleadiug@ in t.he llction, for the 
use of the judge at the trial. Such copy shall be in print. except
as to such parts, if any, of the pleadings IL8 are by these mies per. 
mitted to be written. 
18. II, whon 1&11 11ctio11 is C4l.lle<l on fur tria~ ,he phliotiff apl'ear11, 
and the defendant does not appear, then the plaintifff may prove
his claim, 80 far IUI tbe burden of proof lies upon him. 
19. If, when an action i8 called on for trial, the defendant
appean1, and the plaintiJf dces not appear, the defendant, if be baa
no counterclaim, shall be entitled to judgment dismissing the
action, but if be hu a counterclaim, then be may prove such claim
so far as the burden of proof lies upon him. 
20. Any verdict or judgment obtained where one party does not
appear at the trial, may be set aside by the court or a jud~e upon 
such terms as may seem fit, upon an application made w1tbin ai.x
days after the trial; such application may be made either at the
&BBizes or in Middlesex. 
21. 1'he judge may, if be think it expedient for the intt'resta of
juetioe, postpone or adjourn the trial for such time, and upon 8llcb
terms, if any, u he shall think fit. _ 
22. Upon the trial of an action, the. judge may, at or after such
trial, direct that judgment be entered for any or either party, as he
ie by law entitled to jipon the findings, and either with or without 
leave to any party to move to set aside or vary the same, or to
enter any other judgment, upon such terms, if any, ae he shall
think fit to impose; or he may direct judgment not to be entered
then, and leave any party to move for judgment, No judF,ent
shall be entered after a trial without the order of a court or Judge. 
23. Upon every trial at t be assizes, or at the London and Midd~
&ex sitting of the Queeu's Bench, Common Pleas, or Exchequer 
Division, where the officer present at the trial i8 not the officer by 
whom judgments ought to be entered, the auociate shaU enter all
such findings <f fact as the judge may direct to be entered, 11.Dd the
directions, if any, of the judge a.a to judgment, and the certificat.ee,
if any, granted by the judge, in a book to be kept for the pur
pose.
24. If the judge shaJl direct that any judgment be entered for 
any party absolutely, the Ct'rtiflcate of the associate to that effect
sl1all be a sufficient authoritj' to the proper officer to enter jud~ment accordingly. The certificate may be in the l'orm No. 15 1n 
.Appendix (B) hereto. 
2o. If the judge shall direct that any judgment be entered for
any party subject to leave to move, judgment shall be entered
accordingly upon the production of the associate'e certificate. 
26. 'l'he court or a judge may, if it shall appear desirable, direct
a trial without a jury of any question or i1111ue of fact, or partly of
fact and partly of law, arising in any cause or matter which pre
viously to the passing of the Act could, without any consent of
parties, be tried without ajury. 
27. The court or a judge may, if it shall appear either before
or at the trial that any issue of fact can be more couveniontly tried
before a jury, direct that such issue shall be tried by a judge with a 
j~. Trials with assessore sbaU take place in such manner and
upon such terms as the court or a judge shall direct. 
29. In any cau1e the court or a Judge of the division to which
the cause is 1U1Signed may, at any time or from time to time, 
order the trial and determination of any <1ueetion ur isbue of fact, 
or partly of fact and partly of law, by any eommissioner or commissioners appointed in pursuance of the 29th eectioo of the said 
AcL, or at the sittings to be held in Middlesex or London, and such
question or issue shall be tried and determined accordingly. 
30. Where any cause or matter, or any question in any cause or
matter, is referred to a referee, hit may, subject to the order of the 
court or a judge, hold the trial at or adjourn it to any place which
he may deem most convenient, and have any inspection or view,
either by himself or with bis asse880r& (if any), which be may
deem expedient for the better diapasal of the controversy before 
him. lie shall, unless otherwise directed by the court or a judge,
proceed with the trial d4' rlM in dian, in a aimilar manner aa in
actions tried by a jury. 
31. Subject to any order to be made by the court or judge ordering the &&me, evidence shall be taken at any trial before a referee1 
and the attendance of witneeees may be enforced by subpoena, an<1
every such trial shall be conducted in the same manner, aa nearly
as circumstances will admit, as trials before a judge of the High 
Court, but not so as to make the tribunal of the referee a public
court of justice. 
82. Subject to any snob order aa last aforesaid, the referee shall
have the same authority in the conduct of "DY reference or trial as 
a judge of the High Court when presiding at any trial before him.
83. Nothing in these rules contained shall authorize any referee 
to commit any person to prison or to enforce any order by attachment or otberwise, 
84. The referee may, before the conclusion of any trial before
him, or by his report a oder the reference made to him, submit any
question arising therein for the decision of the court. or state any 
facts specially, with power to the court to draw inferences therefrom, and in any such case the order to be made on such submission
or statement shall be entered as the court may direct; and the
court shall have power to require any explanation or reasons from
the referee, and to remit the cause or matter, or any part thereof, for
re-trial or further consideration to the aame or any other referee. 
ORDER XXXVII. 
EvmBNCB GENERALLY. 
1. In the absence of any agreement between the partfel!I, and subject to these rules, the witnesses at the trial of any action or at any 
assessment of damages, shall be examined t'ivd. eoee and in open
court, but the court or a judge may at any time for sufficient reason order that any particular fact or facts may be proved by 
affidavit, or that the affidavit of any witness may be read at the
hearing or tria~ on such conditions as the court or judge may think
reasonable, or that any witness whose attendance in court ought
for some sufficient cause to be dispensed with, be examined by in.
terrogatories or otherwise before a commissioner or examiner;
provided that where it appea.rs to the court or judge that the other 
party bond fol6 desires the production of a wltness for crose-ezaminatton, and that such witness can be produced, an order shall not 
be made authorizing the evidence of such witness to be given by
affidavit. 
2. Upon any mt\tion, petition, or 1mmmon11 evidence may be given
by affidavit; but the court or A judge way, on the application of 
either party, order the attendance for crou-enmination of the
person making any such affidavit. 
3. Affidavits shall be confined to 11uoh facts as the witnel'IS is able
of his own knowledge to prove, except on interlocutory moUom,
on which statements a.e to hie belief, with the grounds thereof, may
be admitted. The coats of every affidavit which shall unneoes
earily set forth matters of hearsay, or arguo:.entat.ive matter, or 
copies of or extracts from documenta, shall be paid by the party 
fllmg the same.
4. The court or a judge may, in cause or matter where it shall 
appear necessary for the purposes of justice, make any order for
the examination upon oath before any officer of the court, or any 
other person or persons. and at any plaoe,.of any witness or person,
and may order any deposition so taken t.o be filed in the court, and
may empower any party to any such cauee or matter to give nch
deposition in evidence therein on such terms, if any, as the court 
or a judge may direct. 
ORDER XXXVIIL
Evmucs BY .AnmAVIT, 
1. Within fourteen days after a oon11ent for taking evidence by
affidavit a11 between the pla.intiff and the defendant has been given,
or within such time a11 tbft parties may agree upon, or a judge in
chambers may allow, the plaintifff shall file his affidavits and
deliver to the defendant or bis sclieitor a list thereof. 
2. The defendant within fourteen days after delivery of such list,
or within suob time as the parties may agree upon, or a judge in 
chambers may allow, shall file bis affidavits and deliver t.o the
plaintifff or his solicitor a list thereof. 
8. Within seven days after the expiration of the said fourteen days,
or such other time aa aforesaid, the plaintifff shall file bis affidavits
in reply, which affidavits shall be confined to matters strictly in 
reply ~nd shall deliver to the defendant or his solicitor a list thereof.
4. when the evidence is taken by affidavit, any party desiring 
to cross-examine a deponent who has made an affidavit flled on
behalf of tho opposite party, may 90rve upon the party by whom
such affidavit baa been filed a notice in writing, requiring the
production of the deponent for Ol"0811-0Dmination before the court
at the trial, each notice to be served at any time before the expiration of fourteen days next after the end of the time allowed for
filing affidavits in reply, or within such time a.s in any case the
court or a judge may specially appoint; and uulese such deponent 
is produced accordingly, his affidavit shall not be used as evidence
unless by the special leave of tho court. The party producing such
deponent for oroBS.examination shall not be entitled to demand the 
expenses thereof in the first instance from the party requiring such
production. 
o. '!'he party to whom such notice as is mentionPd in the last
preceding rule is given, shall be entitled to compel the attendance 
of the deponent for cross-examination in the same way as be might
compel the atteudance of a witness to be examined. 
6. When the evidence in any action is under this order taken by
affl.Javit, such evidence shall be printed, and tho notice of trial 
shall be given at the sami, time or tirnes after the close of the evidenoe as in other oa.se11 ia by tbeee rules provided after the close of 
the pleadings. 
ORDER X.XXIX. 
MOTION FOR N1tw TRIAL. 
t. A party desiroos of obtaining a new trial of any oause tried in
the Queen's Beach, Common Pleas, or Exchequer Divisions on 
which a verdict bas been found by a jur1, or by a judge without a
jury, must apply for the same to a divisional court by motion for 
an order calling upon the opposite party to show cauee at the ez
piration of eight days from the date of the order, or so soon after
as the cue can be heard, why a new trial should not be directed.
Buch motion shall be made within four days after the trial, if the
diYisional court is then sitting, or within the first four days after
the commencement of the sitting of the divisional court next after 
the trial, or within such extended time as the court or a judge may
allow. 
2. A oopy of such order shall be served on the opposite party
within four dari! from the time of the same being made. 
8. A new tnal shall not be granted on the ground of misdirection or of the improper admission or rejection of evidence, unless 
in the opinion of the court to which the application is made some
substantial wrong or miscarria~e bas been thereby occasioned in 
the trial of the action ;(6} and 1f it appear to such court that such 
wrong or miscarriage atiects part only of the matter in controversy,
the court may give final judgment as to part thereof, and direct a
new trial as to the other part only. 
4. A new trial may be ordered on any question in an action,
whatever be the grounds for the new trial, without interfering with
the finding or decision npon any other question. 
5. An order to show cause shall be a stAy of proceedings i11 the
action, unless the court shall order that it shall not be so aa to the 
whole or any part of the action.
ORDER XL 
.MOO'ION FOR J tTDOIIBNT. 
1. Except where by the Act or by these rules it is provided that
judgment may be obtained in any other manner, the judgment of
t.he ~nrt shall be obtained by motion for judgment. 
2. Where at the trial of an action the judge or a referee bas
ordered that auy judgment be entered subject. to leave to move, 
the party to whom leave has been reserved shall set down th"
action on motion for judgment, and give notice thereof to the other
parties within the time limited by the judge in reserving leave, or
if no time bas been limited, within ten days after the trial. The
notice of motion shall state the grounds of the motion, and the relief sought, and that the motion is pursuant to leave reserved. 
8. Where at the trial of an action the judge or referee abstains 
from directing any judgment. to be entered, the plaintifff may aet
down the act.ion on motion for judgmonL If be does not. so set it
down and give notice thereof to the other parties within ten daya
after the trial. any defendant may set down the action on motion
for judgment, and give notice thereof to the other parties. 
'4. Where at the trial of an action before a jury the judge bu
directed that any judgment be entered, any party may, without 
any leave reserved, move to set aside such judgment, and enter ~ny
other judgment, on the ground that the judgment directed to be
entered is wrong by reason of the judge having caused the finding
to be entered wrongly, with reference to the finding of the jury 
upon the question or questions submitted to them.
5. Where at the tnal of an action the judge or a referee bu 
directed that any judgment be entered. any party may, without
any leave reserved, move to set aside such judgment, and to enter
any other judgment, on the ground that upon the finding as entered 
the judgment so directed is wrong.
6. On every motion made under either of the last two preceding 
rules, the order shall be an order to show cause, aad shall be returnable in eight days. The motion shall be made within four
days after the trial if the diviaiona.l court is then sittin~, or within
the first four days after the commencement of the sit.ting of the 
divisional court. next after the trial, or within such extended time
u a court or judge may allow. 
7, Where issues have been ordered to be tried, or issues or ques
tions of fact to be determined in any manner, the plaintifff may set 
down the action on motion for judgment as soon as such issue, or
questions have been determined. If be does not so set it down,
and give notice thereof to the other parties within ten days after 
his right so to do has arisen, then after the expiration of such ten
days any defendant may set down the action on motion for judg
ment and give notice thereof to the other parties.
8. Where Issues have been ordered to l,e tried or issues or ques
tions of fact to be determined in any manner, and some only of such
issues or questions of fact have been tried or determined, any party
who considers that the result of such trial or determination rendera 
the trial or determination of the others of them unnecessary, or
renders it desirable that the trial or determination thereof should
be postponed, may apply to the court or a judge for leave to set
down the action on motion for judgment, without waiting for such
trial or determination. And the court or judge may, if satisfied of 
the expediency thereof, give such leave, upon such terms, if any,
as shall appear [ust, aud may give any directions which may 
afpear desirable as to postponing the trial of the other questions
o fact. 
9. No action shall, except by leave of the court or a judge, be
set down on motion for judgment after the expiration of one year 
from the time when the party seekin&' to set down the same first
became entitled so to do. 
10. Upon a motion for judgment, or for a new trial, the court
may, if satisfied that it has before it all the materials necessary for
finally determining tho questions in dispute, or any of them, or for 
awarding any relief sought, give judgment accordingly, or may, if 
it shall be of opinion that it bu not sufficient materials before ft
to enable it to give judgment, direct. the motion to stand over for 
further consideration, and direct such issues or questions to be tried
or determined, and such accounts and inquiries to be taken and
made as it may think fit. 
11. Any party to an action may at any stage thereof apply to the
court or a judge for such order as he may, upon any admibsions of
fact in the pleadings, be entitled to, without waiting for the determination of any other question between the parties. The fore
going rules of this order shall not apply to such applications, but
any such application may be made by motion, so soon as the right
of the party applying to the relief claimed has appeared from the 
pleadings. The court or a judge may, on any such application,
give such relief, subject to such terms, if any, as such court or judge
may think flt. 
ORDER XLI. 
l:ICTBY OF JUDGHEH, 
I. Every judgment shall be entered by the proper officer in the
book to be kept for the purpose. The party entering the judgment 
shall deliver to the officer a copy of the whole of the pleadings in
the action other than any petition or summons; such copy shall be 
in print, except such p&rts (if any) of the pleadings as are by these
rules permitted to be writ.kn: Provided that. no copy need be 
delivered of any pleadin~ a copy of which- has been delivered on 
entering any previous Judgment. in snob action. The forms in 
Appendix (D.) hereto may be used, with such variations ae circu.mstanoee may require. 
2. Where any judgment. is pronounced by the court or a judge in
court, the entry of the judgment shall be dated aa of the day on 
which such judgment is pronounced, and the judgment shall take
effect from that date. 
8. In all cases not within the last preceding rule, the entry of
judgment shall be dated as of the day on which the requisite documents are left with the proper officer for the purpose of such entry, .
and the judgment shall take effect from that date. 
4. Where under the Act or these rulos, or otherwiso, it is provided that any judgment. may be entered or signed upon the filing 
of a.n;r affidavit or production of any document, the officer shall
exanune the affidavit or document produced, and if the same be 
regular and contain all that. is by law required he shall enter judgment accordingly. 
5. Where by the Act or these rules, or otherwise, any judgment
may be entered pursuant to any order or oertiflcate, or return to
any writ, the production of such order or certificate sealed with 
the seal of the court, or of such return, shall be a sufficient authority to the officer to enter judgment accordingly. 
6, Any judgment of nonsuit, unless the court or a judge otherwise directs, shall have the same effect as a judgment upon the
merits for the defendant; but in any case of mistake, surprise, or ac
cident., any judgment. of nonsuit may be set aaide on such terms, as 
to payment of costs and otherwile, aa to the court or a judge ahall 
1eem jut. 
ORDER XLII. 
EXEOVTIOK. 
1. A judgment for the recovery by or payment to any pereon of
money may be enforced by any of the model by which a ju~t 
or decree for the payment of money of any court whoee juri8diodon
fa transferred by the Mid Act might have been enforced at the lime 
of the pulling thereof.
2. A judgment for the payment of money Into oourt may be 
forced by writ of sequestration, or In cue. In which attachment II
autboriaed by law, by attachment. 
8. A l"udgment for the recovery or for the delivery of the pomM
afon of and may be enforced by writ of pos11818ion.
4. A judgment for the recovery of an7 propert7 other than wad 
or money may be enforced:
By writ for delivery of the property :
By writ of atta.ohment: 
B1 writ of sequestration.
6, A Judgment requiring any person to do any aot other than. 
the payment of money, or to abetrJn from doing anything, may be 
enforced by writ of att&cbment or by committal, 
6. In these rules the term "writ of execution" aball include
writs of jieri facw, oapitu, ekgit, eequestn.tion, and attachment,
and all subeequeat writs that may iNue for giving effG thereto.
And the term "issuing execution against any party " 1hall mean 
the iaauing of any auch prooesa again1t hia rnon or property U 
under the preceding rules of thil order shal be applicable to the
case. 
7. Where a tudgment ia to the eilect that anr partyia entitled to 
any n,liel subject to or upon the fulfilment of any condition or
contingency, the ;party so entitled may, upon the fulfilment of the
condition or contmgency and demand made upon the party&g&inet
whom he is entitled to re~ef, apply to the oeurt or a judge for leave 
to issue execution against such party. And the court or judge
. may, if satisfied that the right to relief haa arisen aooording to the 
torms of the judgment, order that execution i.uue accordingly, or
may direct that any issue or question neot'88&ry for the determina
tion of the rights of the parties be tried in any of the waya iu
which queetions arising in an action may be tried. 
8. Where a judgment is against partners in the name of the firm,
execution may issue in manner following:- 
(a) Against any property of the partners aa such.
(b) .Apinst any person who baa admitted on the pleading& 
that he ts, or baa been adjudged to be, a partner. 
(c) Against any person who hu been served, aa a partner, witb
the writ of summons, and baa failed to appear. 
If the party who bu obtained judgment claims to be entitled to 
issue exeout.ion against any other person as being a member of the
firm, be may apply to the court or a judge for leave ao to do; and
the court or judge ma7. give such leave il the liability be not disputed, or, if auch liability be disputed, may order &hat the liability
of such person be tried and determined In any manner in which
any issue or question in an aotio11 nmy be tried and determined, 
9. No writ of execution shall be iBtmed without the production
t.o the offloer by whom the same should be issued of the judgment
upon which the writ of execution is to Issue or an office copy
thereof, showing the date of entry. And the officer shall be satisfied that the proper time bas elapsed t.o entitle the judgment creditor 
to esooution.
10. No writ of execution shall be Issued without the party 
iHuing it, or his solicitor, filing a pnecipe for that purpose. The
pnecipe shall contain the Utle of the action, the reference to the 
record, the date of the judgment., and of the order, if any, direct
fng the execution to be issued, the names of the parties against
whom, or of the firms against. whose goods, the execution is to be
issue,!; and shall be signed by t.ho solicitor of the party iasuing
it, or by the party is&uing it, if he do so in person. The forms in
Appendix (E.) hereto may be used, with each variations as circumstancee may require 
. 11. Every writ. of execution shall be indorsed with t'lie name
and place of abode or office of business of the solicit.or actually
auing out. the AJDe, and when the solicitor actually suing out
the writ shall sue oat the same as agent for another solicitor, the
name and plaoe of abode of such other solicitor shall also be indorsed upon the writ; and in case no solicitor shall be employed
to iaeue the writ, then it. aball be indorsed by a memorandum 
expreuiog that. t.be aame baa been sued out by Ille plaintifff or
defendant. in person, as the cue may be, mentioning the city, town,
or parish, and 11,leo the name of the hamlet, street, and number
of the houae of suoh plaintifff's or defendant's reaidenoe, if any such
there be. 
12. Every writ of execution shall bear date of the day on which
it is isaued. The forms in Appendix (F.) hereto may be used, with
auch variations as circumstances may require. 
13. In every cue of execution the party entitled to execution
may levy the poundage, fees, and expensee of execution over and
above the sum recovered. 
14. Ever,: writ of execution for the recovery of money shall be
indorsed with a direction to the aberiff, or other officer or person 
to whom the writ is directed, to levy the mone1 really due and
payable, and sought to be recovered under the Judgment, stating
the amount, and also to levy interest thereon, if sought to be
recovered, at the rate of 4l. per cent. per annum from the time
when the judgment was entered UP, provided that in easee where
there ia an agreement between the parties that more than 41. per
cent. intereet shall be secured by the judgment, then the indorsement may be accordingly to levy the amount of interest so agreed. 
15. Every person to whom any sum of money or any costs shall
be payable under a judgment shall, immediately after the time
when the jtldgmont was duly entered, be entitled to sue out one or
more writs of ji,eri_ faci(u, or one or more writ or writs of ekgit t.o 
enforce payment. thereof, subject, nevortbeleu, as follows: 
(a) If the judgment fa for payment within a period therein
mentioned, no such writ as aforesaid ahall be fained until after
the upiralion of Heb period. 
(b) The court or judge at the time of giving judgment, or the 
oourt or a judge afterwards, may give leave to i88Ue execution
before, or may stay execution until, any time after the expirauon
of the periods herein before described. 
16. A writ of execution, if unexeeuted, shall remain in force for
one year only from it.a issue, unless renewed in the manner hereinafter provided ; but such writ ma1, at any time before it.a expin.tion, by leave of the court or a Judge, be renewed, by the party 
issuing it, for one year from the date of such reaewal, and ao ou
from time to time during the continuance of the renewed writ,
either by being marked with a seal of the oourt her.ring the date 
of the day, month, and yoar of such renewal, or b;r such party
giving a written notice of renewal to the sheriff, 8lglled by the
party or bis attorney, and bearing the like seal of thetoourt; and a
writ of execution so renewed shall have effect.. and be entitled to 
priority, according to the time of the original delivery thereof.
17. The production of a writ of execution, or of the notice 
renewing the same, purporting to be marked with euoh 8e&I u 
in the last preceding rule mentioned, showing the 1&me to have
been renewed, shall be sufficient evidence of its having been so 
renewed.
18. As between the original parties to a judgment, execution 
may issue at any time within six ye&rB from the recovery of the
judgment. 
19. Where ei.J: years have elapsed since the judgment, or any
change bas taken place by death or otherwise in the parties entitled 
or liable to execution, the party alleging himself to be entitlea to
execution may apply to the court or a judge for leave to issue
execution accordingly. And such court or judge mai, if 11&tiafied 
that tbe party so applying is entitled to issue execution, make an
order to that effect, or may order that any issue or question uecesu.ry to determine the rights of the parties\ shall be tried in any of
the waye in which any question in an action may be tried. And
in either case such court or judgo may impose such terms &a to
coats or otherwise as ahall seem jusL. 
20. Every order of the court or a judge, whether in an actioo,
cause, or matter, may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment to the same effect. 
21. In cases other than those mentioned in rule 18, a.u1 person
not being a party in an action, who obtains any order or in whose
favour a.ny order is made, shall be entitled to enforce obedience to 
such order by the same procesa as if be were a party to the action ;
and any person not being a. party in an action, against whom
obedience to any judgment or order may be enforced, shall be
liable to the sa.me process for enforcing obedience to such judgment
or order as if be were a Qlfty to the action. 
22. No proceedtngs by audita querela shall hereafter be used;
but any party againet whom judgment bu been given may apply
to the court or a judge for a. stay of execution or other relief
against such judgment, upon the ground of (act& which have arisen
too late to be pleaded; and the court or judge may give such relief
and upon such terms ae may be just. 
28. Nothing in any of the rules of tbia order shall take away or
curtail any right heretofore exiating to enforce or give effect to any 
judgment or order in any manner or against any penon or property
wbataoever. 
24. Nothing in this order shall affect the order in which writa of
execution may be issued. 
ORDER XLIIL 
WRITS oF Fu:a1 FAcus AND ELEGIT. 
l. Writ.a of Ji,eri faciaa and of ~ shall have the same force
and effect as tfie like writa have heret.ofore had, and shall be exeouted in the &&me manner in which the like writa have heretofore 
been executed.
2. W rita of l'fflditioni ~. dutring(u nuper vice OOff'l1lffll, 
fan facial de lxmu eccluuutw, uquutrari facitu de bonu eccJ..
wuticil, and all other writs in aid of a writ of ji,eri facia6 or of 
elegit, may be i88ued and executed in the same cases and in the
same manner a& heretofore. 
ORDER XLIV. 
AnACBXKMT. 
1. A writ of attachment shall have the same effect aa a writ of
attachment. issued out of the Court of Chancery bu heretofore had. 
2. No writ of attachment. shall be i88ued without the leave of the
court or a judge, to be applied for on not.ice to the party against 
whom the attachment is to be issued. 
ORDER XLV. 
ATrACBHDT or DBBTS. 
1. Where a judgment la for the recovery by or payment to any
person of money, the party entitled to enforce it m&y apply to the
court or a judge for an order that the judgment debtor be orally 
examined aa to whether any and what debts are owing to him,
before an officer of the court, or such other person aa the court or 
judge shall appoint; and the court or judge may make an order for
the euminat.ion of such judgment debtor, and for the production of
any books or documents. 
2. The court. or a judge may, upon the u: pa,u application of
such judgment creditor, either before or after such oral examination, and upon affidavit by himself or his solicitor stating that
judgment has been recovered, and that it is still unsatiafled, and to 
what amount, and that any other person is indebted to the judgment debtor, and is within the jurisdiction, order that all debt.a
owing or accruin~ from such third person (hereinafter called the
J&rnishee) to the Judgment debtor shall be attached to answer the
Judgment debt; and by the same or any subsequent order it may
be ordered that t.he garnishee 1ball appear before the court or judge or an officer of the court. u such court or judge shall appoint,
to show cause why he should not pay the judgment creditor the
debt due from him to the judgment debtor, or BO much thereof as 
may be sufficient to satisfy the judgment debt.
8. Service of an order that debts due or accruing to the judg
ment debtor shall be attached, or notice thereof to the garnwhee,
in sach manner as the court or judge shall direct, 1hall bind such
debts in his h&llds. 
4. If the garnishee doe1 not forthwith p&y Into ooart the amount
due from him to the J"udgment debtor, or an amount equal to the
judgment debt, and oes not dispute the debt due or claimed to be
due from him to the judgment debtor, or if be does not a~ 
upon summon11, then the court or judge may order e:s:ecuuon to
issue, and ft may fasue accordingly, without an-, previous writ or
process, to levy the amount due from such garnishee, or eo muoh
thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the judgment debt, 
6. If the garnishee disputes bis liabihty, the court or judge,
instead of making ao order that execution shaJI issue. may order
that any iMue or queet.ion neceesary for determining his liability be
tried or determined in any manner in which any iue or queetion
in an action may be Lried or determined. 
6. Whenever in proceedings to obtain an attachment of deb'8 it
ie suggested by the garnishee that the debt eougbt to be attached 
belongs to some third person, or that any third penon baa a lien
or charge upon ft, the court or judge ma1 order such third penon
to appear, and state the nature and particulars of his claim upon 
such debL 
7. After hearing the allegations of BUoh third person under soch
order, and of any other pen,on whom by the same or aoy subeequent 
order the court or judge may order to appear, or in cue of such
third person not appearing when ordered, tho oourt or judge may
order execution to isilue to levy the amount due from such gamisbee,
or any issue or question to be tried or determined according to the
preceding rulee of this order, and may bar the claim of such third
person, or make BUoh other order as 1uch court or judge shall
think flt1 upon such terma, in all caaee, with reepeot to the lien or
oharge (if any) of such third person, and to ooete, aa the court or 
judge shall think juet and reuonable.
8. Payment mad~ or execution levied upon the garnishee 
under any such pr ings as aforesaid ahall be a valid diacharge
to him aa against the judgment debtor, to the amount paid or
levied, although such prooeedillg may be set aaide, or the judg
ment reversed.
9. There shall be kept by the proper officer & debt attachment 
book, and in such book entries shall be made of the attachment and
proceedings thereon, with names, datee, and statements of the
amount recovered, and otherwise; and copiee of any entries made 
therein may be taken by an1 pereon upon application to the proper
officer. 
10. The ooete of any application for ao attachment of debts and 
of any proceedings arising from or incidental to euch application,
aball be in the dieoretion of the court or a judge. 
ORDER XLVI. 
CJUROI50 01' BTOOI OB BHARlfB .um DIITIWIOil. 
1. An order charging 1tock or ebarea may be made by any
divieional court or by any judge, and the prooeedinga for obtaining 
1aoh order shall be such u are directed; and the etreot aball be
1uch aa is provided by 1 & 2 Viet. e, 110, 14 and 16, and 8 & 4 
VioL e, 82, a. 1. 
2. Any persen claiming to be interested in any &toot tnuferable a& the Baok of England standing in the name of any other
person may sue out a writ of distringaa pursuant to the etatu&e
:; Viet. c, 8, as heretofore. Such writ to be iasued out of any office 
of the High Court in London, where write of 1ummon1 are iuued. 
ORDER XLVII. 
WBIT or 81tQt1Bft'RATtoir. 
Where any person la by any judgment directed to pay money
into court or to do any other act in a limited time, and after due 
service of SDch judgment refuses or neglects to obey the same
according to the exigency tbel'l'of, the person proaecuting such
judgment shall d tho expiration of the time limited for the per.
lormance thereof, be entitled, without obtaining any order for that
purpoee, to iuue a writ of sequeetratfon agaloet the estate and 
effects of auoh disobedient person. Such writ of sequestration
shall have the same effect u a writ of aequeetration in Chancery
has heretofore had, and the proceeds of such sequestration may be
dealt with In the same manner as the prooeeds of writs of sequee
tration have heretofore been dealt with by the Court of Chancery. 
ORDER XLVIII. 
WRIT OF P088aaJ01'. 
1, A judgment that a party do recover po111M!118ion of any land
mo.y be enforced by writ of poeseeaion in manner heretofore uaed
in actions of eject.ment in the Superior Uourw of Common Law. 
2. Where by any judgment any person therein named is directed
to deliver up potl8688ion of any lands to some other person, the
person proseouting such judgment shall, without any order for that
purpose, be entitled to sue out a writ of poesession on filing an 
affidavit showing due service of such judgment, and that the aame
has not been obeyed, 
OBDEB XLIX. 
WRIT OF DBLIV&RY. 
A writ for delivery of any property other than land or money
ma1 be fasued and enforced in the manner heretofore in use in 
actions of detinue in the Superior Courts of Oommon Law. 
ORDER L. 
CHilG8 OP P ARTIB8 BY DEATH, 4:o. 
1. An action shall not beoome abated b1 reason of the marriage,
death, or bankruptcy of any of the p&rt1ee, if the oauee of aotion 
survive or continue, and shall not become defective by the assign.
men't, creation, or devolution of any estate or title pende!lte liu. 
2. In case of the marriage, death, or bankruptcy, or devolution
of state by operation of law, of any party to an actiont the court 
or a judge may, if it be deemed neceeaary for the complete settlement of all the questions involved in the action, order that the 
husband, ptirsoniJ repreaent.atiye, trustee, or other succeeaor iu
interest, if any, of such party be made a party to the aotion1 or be 
aerved with notice thereof in such manuer and form u heremafter 
fre80ribed, and Ob such te1'Dlll &8 the court or judge shall think
Just, and shall make such order for the diapoaal of the action aa
may be just. 
8. In caae of an aui~menti creation, or devolution of any
eetat.e or title pendate lau, the action may be continued by or 
against the person to or upon whom such estate or title hAB oome
or devolved. 
4. Where by reason of marriage, death, or bankruptcy, or any
other event occurring after the commencement of an action, and
causing a change or transmission of interest or liability, or by reason
of any person interested coming into existence after the commencement of the action, it becomes necessary or desirable that any per
ton not already a party to the action should be made a party thereto,
or that any persou already a party thereto should be made a party
thereto in another capacity, an order that the proceedings in the 
action shall be carried on between the continuing parties to the
act.ion, and such new party or parties may be obtained s:i: paru on
application to the court or a judge, upon an allegation of such 
change or transmission of interest or liability, or of such person
interested having oome into existence. 
6. An order so obtained shall, unless tho court or judge shall
otherwise direoti be served upon tbe continuing party or parties to 
the action,or theirsolicitors,and also upon each such new party, unlea the person making the application be himself the only new party,
and the order shall, from the time of such service, subject neverthe
less to the next two following rules, be binding on the persons
eerved therewith; and every person served therewith, who is not
already a party to the action, shall be bound to enter an appearance thereto within the same time and in the same manner as if he 
bad been se"ed with a writ of summons.
6. Where any person who is under no disability, or under no 
disability other than coverture, or being under any di&ability other
than ooverture, but having a guardian ad lium in the action, shaa 
be served with such order, such person may apply to the court or a
judge to discharge or vary such order at any time within twelve 
days from the service thereof.
7. Where any person being under anydisabilityotherthancover
ture, and not having had a guardian ad litem appointed in the
acLion,- is served with any such order, such person ma.y apply to the 
court or a judge to discha"e or vary such order at any time within
twelve days from the appointment of a guardian or guardian, I'd 
lilem for 1mch party, and until such period of twelve days &ball
have expired such order shall have no force or effect u agaiuat 
auch last-mentioned person. 
ORDER LI. 
TRA.InJRR8 ill) 00N80LIDATI01'. 
1. Any action or actions may be transferred from one division 
to another of the high court or from one judge to another of the
Chancery division by an order ot the Lord Ohanoellor, provided
that no tr&nafer shall be made from or to any dfv.ialon without the
ooneent of the preaident of the dlvfaion. 
2. Any action may, at any stage, be tranaferred from one din- 
Bion to another by an order made by the court or any judge of the
division to which the action ia asaigntld: Provided ,hat no each
transfer shall be made without the consent of the preeident of the 
division to which the action is proposed to be transferred.
3. Any action transferred to the Chancery division or the Pro
bate division, shall, by the order directing the transfer, be directed
to be usigued to one of the judges of such diviaion to be named in 
the order.
4. Action, in any dimion or diviaiooa may be oonaolidated by 
order of the court or a judge in the manner heretofore in use in the
auperior courts of common law. 
ORDER Lii. 
INT&RLOCUTORY ORDERS J..8 TO HAllfD.UlUI IKJUXOTI01'8 OR
INTERlll Pau&RVAnollf OF PROPERTY, etc. 
1. When by any contract a prima facie cue of liability ta eatablished, and there is alleged as matter of defense a right to be
relieved wholly or partially from such liability, the court or a judge
may make an order for the preeervation or interim custody of the
subject-matter of the litigation, or may order that the amount in 
dispute be brought into court or otherwise 860Ured. 
2. It shall be lawful for the court or a judge, on the application
of any party to any action., to make any order for the sale, by any 
person or persons named in such order, and in such manner, and
on such terms as to the court or judge may seem desirable, of any
goods, wares, or morohandlse which may be of a perishable nature
or likely to injure from keeping, or which for any other just and 
aufflcient reason it may be desirable to have sold at once.
8. It shall be lawful for the court or a judge, upon the application 
of any party to an action, and upon such terms as may seem just,
to make any order for the detention, preservation or inspection of
any property, being the subject of suoh action, and for all or any of
the purposes aforesaid to authorize any person or persona to enter
upon or into any land or building in the posseesion of any party to 
aucb action, and for all or any of the purposes aforesaid to
authorize any samples to be taken, or any observation to be made
or ezperiment to be tried, which may seem nece1111ary or ezpedieut
for the purpose of obtaining full information or evidence. 
4. An application for an order under section 26, eub-section 8, 
of the Act, or under rules 2 or 8 of this order, may be made to the
court or a judge by any party. If the application be by the plaintifff 
for an order under the said sub-section 8 it may be made either
ex paru or with notice, and U for an order under the said rules 2 
or 3 of this order ft may be made after notice to the defendant at
any time R.fter tho issue of the writ of summons, and if U be by any
other party, then 011 notice to the plaintifff, and at any time after
appearance by the party making the applioatioo. 
5. An application for an order under rule 1 may be made by the
plaintifff at any time after his right thereto appears from the plead
mgs ; or, if there be no pleadings, is made to appear bf affidavit or
otherwise to the satisfaction of the court or a Judge. 
6. Where an action is brought to recover, or a defendant in bis
statement of defense eeeka by wa7 of counter.claim to recover 
specific property other than land, and the party from whom such
recovery is ,ought does not dispute the title of the party seeking to 
recover the same, but claims to retain tbe yroperty by virtue of a
lien or otherwise as security for any sum o money, the oourt or a
judge may, at any time after such laat-mentioned claim ap~
from the pleadings, or, if there be no pleadings, I,y affidavit or
otherwise to the satisfaction of such court or judge, order that the 
party claiming to reoover the property be at liberty to pay into 
court, to abide the event of the action, the amount of money in
respect of which tho lien or eecurity i1 claimed, and such further
sum (if any) for interest and costs aa such court or judge may
direct, and that upon such payment into court being made, the
property claimed be given up to the party claiming it.. 
ORDER Lill. 
MOTIONS AND OTHKR APPLIC..\TIONB. 
1. Where by these rules any application is authorized to be made 
to the court or a judge in an aot1on, such arplication, if made to & 
divisional court or to a judge in court, shal be made by motion.
2. No rule or order to show cause shall be granted in any action, 
except in the oases in which an applioation for such rule or order
i8 expreaely authorized by tbeee rules. 
8. Except where by the practice existing at the time of the 
puaing of the said Act any order or rule u heretofore been made 
ez pa,u absolute in the tlrat instance, and except where by tbeee
rules is otherwise provided, and except where the mot.ion ia for
a rule to show cause only, no motion shall be made without previous notice to the parties affected thereby. But the court or judge,
if satisfied that the delay caused by proceeding in the ordinary way 
would or might entail irreparable or serious mischief, may make
any order ez paru upon such terms as to costs or otherwise, and
subject to such undertaking, if any, as the court or judge may
think just; and any party affected by such order may move to eet 
it uide.
4. Unle&B the court or judge give special leave to the contrary 
there must be at least two clear days between the Bel'vioe of a
notioe of mot.ion and the day named in the notice for bearing the 
motion.
6. If OD the bearing of a motion or other application the court 
or judge shall be of opinion that any pereon to whom notice bu
not been given ought to have or to have h11.d such notice, the
court or judge may either diemiu the motion or application, or
adjourn the hearing thereof, in order that auoh not.ice may be givea, 
upon such terms, iI any, as the oourt or judge may think fit to
impoee. 
6. The hearing of any mot.ion or applioation may from time to
fime be adjourned upon such terms, if any, aa the court or judge 
ball think fit.
7. The plaintifff shall, without any special leav8' be at liberty to 
serve any notice of motion or other notice, or any petition or
summons upon any defendant, who, having been duly served with 
a writ of eummoDB to appear in the action, baa not appeared within
the time limited for that purpose, 
8. The plaintifff may, by leave of the court or a judge to be 
obtained ez part~, Berve any notice of motion upon any defendant
along with tbe writ of summons, or at any time after service of the
writ of aummona and before the time limited for the appearance of
such defendanL 
ORDER LIV. 
APPUCATI01' AT CluXBBBS. 
1. Every application at chambers authorfaed by these rules shall
be made in a summary way by summons. 
2. In the Queen's Bench. Common Pleaa, and Exchequer divisions a master, and in the Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty division 
a registrar, may transact all such business and exercise all such
authority and jurisdiction in respect of the same as under the Aot,
or lhe schedule thereto, or these rulee may be transacted or
exercised by a judge at chambers, except in respect of lhe follow
ing proceedings and matters ; that is to sayAll matters relating to criminal proceedings or to lhe liberty 
of the subject:
The removal of actions from one division or judge to another 
division or judge:
The settlement of iuuee, eltcept by consent :
Discovery, whether of documents or otherwise, and inspection, 
except by consent:
Appeals from district regiatrani:
Interpleader other than such matteni arising in interpleader u 
relate to practice only, except by consent :
Prohibitions : 
Injunctions and other orders under sub-sect, 8 of sect. 25 of 
the Act, or under Order Lii., rules 1, 2, and 8 respectively:
A warding of coat.a, other than the coeta of any proceeding 
before such master:
Reviewing tautlon of eosta. 
Charging orders on stock funds, annuitle1, or share of dividendor annual produce thereof: 
Acknowledgments of married women. 
3. If any matter appea.n to the muter proper for the decision
of a judge the master may refer the same to a judge, and the judge
may either dispose of the matter or refer the eame back to the
master with such directions u he may think flt. 
4. Any person affected by any order or decision of a master may
appeal therefrom to a judge at chambera. Bach appeal shall be by 
summons. within four days after the decision complained of, or
such further time as may be allowed by a judge or master. 
6. An appeal from a master's decision 11ball be no stay of proceeding unleea so ordered by a judge or master. 
6. In the Queen's Bench, Common Pleu, and Exchequer Division
every appeal to the court from any decision at chambers shall be 
by motion, and shall be made wilhln eight days after the decision
appealed againsL 
ORDER LV.
Cosrs, 
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the coats of and iucident to 
all proceedings in the High Court 1ball be in the discretion of the
court; but nothing herein contained shall deprive a truatee, mortgagee, or other person of any right to cost.I out of a particular
estate or fond to which he would be entitled according to the rules
hitherto acted upon in Courts of Equity: Provided, that where 
any action or issue is tried by a jury, the oosla shall follow the
event, unleu upon application made at the trial for good e&U88 
1hown the judge before whom such act.ion or issue ia tried or the
court shall otherwise order. 
ORDER LVI. 
NOTICBS AND PAPBR, &o. 
1. All not.ioe1 required by these rules shall be in writing, unleu
expressly authorized by a court or judge to be given orally. 
2. Proceedings required to be printed shall be printed on cre&m
wove machine drawing fooleoal_l folio paper, 19 lba. per mm ream, or
thereabouts, in pica type leaded, with an inner margin about. three
quarters of an iucb wide, and an outer margin about two inebee
and a half wide. 
8. Any affidavit may be sworn to either in print or in manuecrfpt, or partly in print and partly in manuscript. 
ORDER LVII. 
TD!B.
1. Where by theee rules, or by any judgment or order !riven 
or made after the commencement of the Act, time for iloing
any act or taking any proceeding is lhnited by months, not ex
preased to be lunar months, such time shall be computed by
calendar montha. 
2. Where any limited time leaa than six days from or after any
date or event ia appointed or allowed for doing any act or taking 
any proceeding, Sunday, Christmas Day, and Good Friday shall
not be reckoned in the computation of such limited time. 
8. Where the time for doing any act or taking any proceeding
expiree on a Sunday, or other day on which tho offlcea are closed,
and by reaaon thereof such act or proceeding cannot be done or 
taken on that day, such act or-proceeding shall110 far as regards
the time of doing or taking the same, be held to be duly done
or taken, if done or taken on the day on which the offlcea shall
next be open. 
-i. No pleading& shall be amended or delivered in the long
vacation, unlees directed by a court or a judge. 
6. The time of tho Jong vacation shall not be reckoned in the
computation of the times ap]?ointed or allowed by those rules 
for filing, amending, or dolivenng any pleading, unless otherwise
directed by a court or a judge. 
6. A court or a judge shall have power to enlarge or abridge the
time appointed by these rules, or fixed by any order enlarging 
time, for doing any act or taking any proceeding, upon such terms
(if any) as the justice of the case may require, and any a.ch enlargement may be ordered although the application for the 
aame i1 not. made until after the expiration of the time appointed 
or allowed. 
ORDER L VIII. 
APPliLS. 
1. Billa of exceptione(7) and proceedings in error shall be
abolished. 
2. All appeals to the Court of Appeal shall be by way of rehearing, and shall be brought by notlce of motion in a aommary
way, and no petition, case, or other formal proceeding other than 
such notice of motion shall be necet'IS&ry. The appellant. may by
the not.ice of motion appeal from the whole or any part of any
judgment or order, and the notice of motion shall sLa.te whether
t.he whole or part only of sueh judgment or order ia complained of,
and in the latter case shall specify such part. 
3. The notice of appeal shall be served upon all parties directly
affected by the appeal, and it shall not be necessary to serve parties 
not so affected; but the Court of Appeal may direct notice of the
appool to be served on all or any parties to the action or other 1,roceeding, or upon any person not a party, and in the meantime may
postpone or adjourn the bearing of the appoal upon such terms a"'
may seem just, and may give such judgment and make such order 
as might. have boon given or made if the persons served with such
notice bad been originally partie& Any notice of appeal may be
amended at any time as to the Court of Appeal may soem tlL 
4. Noiioe of appeal from any judgment, whether final or interlocutory, shall be a fourteen days notice, and notice of appeal from
any interlocutory order shall be a four days notice. 
5. The Court of Appeal shall have all the powers and dutiet1 u 
to amendment and otherwise of the Court of First Instance, together
with full discretionary power to receive further evidence upon 
questions of fact, such evidence to be either by oral oxamination in
court, by affidavit, or by deposition taken before an examiner or
commissioner. Such further evidence may be given without special
leave upon interlocutory applications, or in an1 case as to matterA
which have occurred after the date of the decision from which the
appeal is brought, Upon appeals from a judgment after trial or 
hearing of any cause or matters upon the merits, such further
evidence (save as to matters subsequent as aforesaid) shall be 
admitted on special grounds only, and not without special leave of
the court. The Court of Appeal shall have power to give any
judgment and make any order which ought to ban been made, and 
to make such further or other order as the case may require. The
powers &foreaaid may be exercised by the said court, notwithstanding that the notice of appeal may be that part only of tho
decision may be reversed or varied, and such powers may also be
exorcised in favour of all or any of the respondents or parties,
although such respondents or partiee may not have ap~led from 
or complained of the decision. The- Court of Appeal shall have
power to make such order NI to the whole or any part of the costs 
of the appeal u may seem [ust,
6. It shall not, under any circumstances be necessary for a 
respondent to give notice of motion by way of croes appeal, but if 
a reepondent intends, upon the bearlug or the appeal, to contend
that the decision of the court below should be varied, be sb11U, 
within the time specified in the next rule, or such time as may be
prescribed by special order, gift notice of such intention t.o any
parties who may be affecW by such contention. The omisaion t.o
give such notice shall not diminish the powen conferred by thfl Act 
upon the Court of Appeal, but may, in the disortition of the oourt,
be ground for an adjournment of the appal, or for a special order
u to costs. 
i. Subject to any special order which may be made, notioe by a
reepoodent under the lut preceding rule shall in the cue of any
appeal from a fioal judgment be an eight days notice, and in the
cue of an appeal from an interlocutory order a two days notice. 
8. The party appealing from a judgment or order ahall produoe
to the proper offloer of t.li.e Court of Appeit,l the judgment or order
or an ofBce copy thereof!. and shall leave with him a copy of the 
notice of appeal to be ttled, and auoh offloer shall thereupon set
down the appeal by entering the same iu the proper list of appeals,
and it shall come on to be beard according to its order in such list,
unleee t.he Court of Appeal or a judge thereof shall otherwiee 
direct, but ao u not to come in to the paper for bearing before the
day named in the notice of appeaL 
9. The time for appealing for any order or decision made or
given in the matter ot the winding up of a company under the provillions of the Companies Act, 1862, or any Act amending the
same, or any order or deoision made in the matter of any bank.
ruptcy, or in an7 other matter not being an action, shall be the
same aa the time limited for appoal from an interlocuwry order 
under Rule 15.
10. Where an t:J: parle application baa been refused by the couri 
below, an application for a similar purpose may be made to the
Court of Appeal u part~ within four days from tbe date of such
refuR&l. or within such enlarged time as a judge of the ooart below
or of the Appeal Court may allow. 
11. When an1 question of fact ia involved in an appeal, the
evidence taken 10 the court below bearing on such question shall, 
11objoot to any special order, be brought before the Court of Appeal
u follows: 
(a.) Ae to any evidence taken by affidavit., h,: the production
of printod copies of such of tho affidavits as have been
printed, and office copies of such of them u have not been 
printed.
(b.) As to any evidence given orally, by the production of a copy 
of the judge's notes, or such other materials aa the court
may deem expedient. 
12. Where evidence baa not been printed in the court below,
the court below or a judge thereof, or the Court of Appeal or a 
judge thereof, may order the whole or any part thereof to be
printed for the purpose of the appeal. Any party printing evidenoe
for the purpose of an appeal without such order shall bear the 0081.8 
thereof, unless the Court of Appeal or a judge thereof shall otherwiM order. _ 
18. If, upon the heariiig of an sppeal, a questiun arise as to I.he 
ruling or direction of the judge to a jury or aelle880rs, the court
shall have regard to verified notes or other evidence, ana to such 
other materials as the court may deem flxpedient.
14. No lnterlocutorv order or rule from which there bas been 
no appeal shall O}M'rate 80 &8 to ba.r or prejudice the Court of Appt'&l
from giving such decision upon the app-.l 118 may seem just. 
1,';. No appeal from any interloouwry order shall, except by
special leave of the Court of Appeal, be brought after the expira
tion of twenty-one days, and no other apJ)f'&l shall. except by such
leave, be brought after the expiration of one year. 'I'he said 
respective periods shall be calculated from the time at which tho
judgment or order is signed, entered, or otherwise perfected, or, iu
the case of the refusal of an application, from the date of such refusal Such deposit or other security for the costa to be oocasioned
by any appeal shall be made or ginn aa may be directed under
special circumstances by the Court of Appeal. 
16. An appeal shall not operate as a stay of execution or of
proceedings under the decision appealed from, except so far BB the
court appealed from, or any judge thereof, or the Court of Appeal, 
may so order; and no intermediate act or droceeding shall be
invalidated, except BO far aa the court appeale from may direct. 
17. Wherever under theee rules an application may be made
either to the court below or to the Court of ApP.9al, or to a judge 
of the court below or of the Court of Appeal, 1t shall be made In
the first instance to the court or judge below. 
18. Every aprlioation to ft judge of the Court of Appeal
shall be by motion, and the pro'f'isions of Order LUI. shall apply
thereto. 
ORDER LIX. 
EFFEcr OF NoN-COMPLIANCE.
Non-compliance with any of these rules shall not render the 
proceedings in any action void unless the court or a judge shall so 
direct, but such proceedings may be set aside either wholly or in 
part as irregnlar, or amended, or otherwise dealt with In such
manner and upon such terms a.s the court or judge sb&ll think fit. 
ORDER LX. 
0FJl'ICKR8. 
1. A.II officers who at the time of the commencement of the said
Act shall be attached to the Court of Chancery shall be attached 
to the Chancery Division of the said High Court, and all offlr,crs
who at the time of the commencement of the said A.ct shall be
attached to the Court of Queen's Bench shall be attached to the
Queen's Bench Division of the said High Court; and all officers 
who at the time of the commencement of the said Act shall be
attached to tbe Court of Common Pleas shall be attached to the 
Common Pleas DiTision of the said High Court ; and all officers
who at the time of the commencement of the said Act shall be 
attached to the Court of Exchequer shall be attached to the
Exchequer Division of the said High Court; and all officer& who at 
t.he tinu- of the commeucemeut of t he said Act shall be attached to
the Court of Probate, the Court. of Divorce, aud Ute Court of 
Admir&Uf respectively, shall be attached to the Probate, Divorce,
and Admiralty Division of the said High OourL 
2. Officers attached to any division shall follow the appeals from
the same division, and shall perform in the Court of Appeal 
analogous duties. in reference to such appeals as the registrars and
officers of the Court of 6Jhancory usually performed as to rehearings in the Court of Appeal in Chancery, and u the lll&8f.ers 
and officers of the Courts of Queen's Bench, Common Pleas, and
Exchequer respectively performed as to appeala beard by the Court
of Exohcquer Chamber. 
OBDEB LXI. 
SITTIN08 ilD V .A.CATIONS, 
1. The sittings of the Oourt of Appeal and the sittings in
London and Middlesex of the High Court of Justioe shall be four 
in every year, viz., the Michaelmas sittings, the Hilary sittings,
the Easter sittings, and the Trinity eittings. 
The Miohaolmae sittinge shall commence on the 2nd of November and terminate on the 21et of December; the Hilary eittinge 
shall commence on the 11th of January and torminate on the Wednesday before Easter; the Easter sittings shall commence on the 
Tuesday after ER.Ster week and terminate on the Friday before
Whitsunday. 
The Trinity eittinga shall commence on the Tuesday after Whitsun week, and terminate on the 8th of August. 
2. The vacations to be observed in the several courts and offices
of the Supreme Court shall be four in every year, viz., the Long
Vacation, the Christmas Vacation, the Easter Vacation, and ibe
Whitsun vacation. 
The Long Vacation shall commence on the 10th of August and
terminate on the 24th of October; the Christmas Vacation shall 
commence on the 24th of December and terminate on the 6th of
January. 
The Easter Vacation shall commence on Good Friday and terminate on Easter 'l'ueaday, and the Whitsun Vacation shall commenoe on the Saturday before Whit Sunday and shall terminate on
the Tuesday after Whit Sunday. . 
3. The days of the commencement and termination of each
sitting and vaoa.tion shall be included in such sitting and vacation
respectively. 
4. The several offices of the Supreme Court shall be open on
every day of the year, except Sundays, Good Friday, Monday and
Tuesday in Easter week, Whit Monda.y, Christmas Day, and the 
next following working day, and all days appointed by proclama
tion to be observed as days of general fa.at , humiliation or thanksgiving. 
6. Two of the judges of the High Court shall be selected at the
oommencement of each long vacation for the hNLring in London or
Middlesex during vacation of all such applications ae may require 
to be immediately or promptly heard ; such two judgea shall act
as vacation judges for one year from their appointmenL In the 
absence of arrangement between the judges, the two vacation
judges shall be the two judges lut appointed (whether as [udges 
of the said High Courl or of any court whose jurisdiction i8 by
the said Act transferred to the said High Court) who have not
already served as ncation judges o! aoy such court; and if there 
11ball not be two judges for the time being of the said High Court
who shall not ban RO served, then the two vacation judges shall 
be the judge (if any) who has not 110 eerved, aod the senior judge
or judges who bas or have so served once only, according to 
seniority of appointment, whether in the said High Court or such
other court as aforesaid. The Lord Chancellor shall not be liable
to serve as a vacation judge. 
6. 1'he vacation judges may sit either 11eparately or together u a
diYiaional court as occasion shall re~uire, and may bear and dispose 
of all actions, matters, and other business to whichever division the
same may be asaiipied. No order made by a ncation judge shall 
be reversed or vaned except by a divisional court or the Court of
Appeal, br a judge thereof, or the judge who made the order. Any
other judge of the High Court may sit in vacation for any vacadon 
judge.
7. The vacation judges of the High Court may dispose of all 
actions, matters, aod other business of an urgent nature during a.oy
interval between the sittings of any division of the High Court to 
which such bu@ine88 may be assigned, although such interval may
not be called or known as a vacation. 
ORDER LXII. 
ExCKPTIOl'f8 FBOII TH& BuLlts. 
N.othing in these Rules shall affect the pracuoe or procedure in
any of the followin~ causes or matters:
Criminal prooeedmge:
Proceedings on the Crown side of the Queen's Bench division: 
Proceedings on the Revenue side of the Exchequer division:
Proceedings for divorce or other matrimonial causes. 
ORDER LXIII. 
INTEBPRKTATION OF TEltMS, 
The provisions of the lOOth section of Uie A.ct shall apply to
these rules. 
In the construction of these rules, nnlee there is anything in the
subject or context repugnant thereto, the several words hereinafter 
mentioned or referred to shall have or include the meanings follow.
ing: 
"Person" shall include a body corporate or politic :
"Probate actions" shall include actions and other matters 
relating to the grant or recall of probate or of letters of administration other than common form business: 
"Proper officer'' shall, unless and until any rule to the contrary i8 made, mean an officer to be ascertained as follows: 
(a.) Where any duty to be discharged under the Act or these
rules i8 a duty which bas heret.ofore been discharged by any 
officer, such officer shall continue to be the proper officer to
discharge the same: 
(6.) Where any new duty is under Llill Act or Lhetltl rules to 
discharged, the proper officer to discharge the same ehall be such
officer, having previously discharged analogous dut.iee, as may 
from time to time be directed to discharge the same, in the cue of
an officer of the Supreme Court, or the High Court of Justioe, or
the Court of Appeal, not attached to any division, by the Lord
Chancellor, aud 10 the C&Se of an officer attached to any division by the President of the division, and in the ca.ae of an 
officer attached to any judge, bl such judge:
"The Act" and "the said Act shall reepeotively mean the 
Supreme Oourt of Judicature Act, 1878, as amended by thi8 
Act. 
FORM8 OF WRITS 011' SUKXONS, &c. 
187
In the High Court of Justice: 
Division. 
APPENDIX (A.)
PART I. 
VICTORIA, by the grace of God, -te. 
To C.D. of Iu the county of and E.F. of
We command you, That within eight days after the service of 
this writ on you, inclusive of the da;r of such service, 7ou do cause
an appearance to be entered for too in the Division of our
High Court of Justice in an action at the suit of A.B.; and take
notioe, that in default of your so doing the plaintifff may proceed 
therein, and judgment may be given in your absence. Wit.neaa,
tfc. 
N.B.-This writ is to be served within (twelr,e) calendar months
from the date thereof, or, if renewed, from the date of such
renewal, including the day of such date, and not after. 
wards.
Tho defendant [or defe,,dant.t] may tpear hereto by entering an 
appearance [ or appMrancu either personally or by
solicitor at the [ ] o ce at 
Indormnen.u tobmade on the u'1'it befort. u,ue thereof. 
The plaintifff's claim is for, cfc. 
This writ W88 issued by E.F., of solicitor for the said
plaintifff, who resides at , or, this writ was issued by Lbe
plaintifff in person who resides at [mentiun tM cit9, tov,n, 
mparuh, and also the nanu of tJ,e ,treet and number of the lwu4e of 
tlv: plainti.ff'a rt~ if any.] 
No. 1. Title in full. 
[ Hert put tlat Idler and nflfflher.] 
Between A.B. Pla.intitf', 
and
C.D. and E.F. 
lndo'f-HIMllt to be matk on IM mt after aen,ice tAertof. 
This writ was served by X. Y. on L.M. (the defendant or one of
the defendants], on Monday, the day of , 18 
Defendanta. 
(Signed) X. Y. 
To C.D. of
We oommand you, C.D., That within I ltere inlerl tAe numbe,- oJ 
dng, dirttffll by tAe courl or judge ordering lM ,ennce or notice 1 after 
the eervioe of thia writ Lor JtOt~ o/ tlai, "'1"'il, a, tM caa, may 6e] on
you, inolwdve of the day of such aervice, you do cause an appear. 
anoe to be entered for you in the Division of our High
Court of Justice in an action at the suit of .A.B.; and tAke notice, 
th&, in default of your so doing the plaintifff may, by leave of the
coon or a judge, proceed therein, and judgment may be given in 
your absence. Wltn-, fc. 
Memoranda and /nd.of'ltllfl,ffl/1 a, in Fonn. No. 1.
lndor,ement to II, made on tlae IDrit beforlM ~ tlwre(Jf.
N.B.-T/w mt i, to be wed 10Mre tlatJ defendant or all t"4 
tJ./,nda,au or au or more defendant or dejendanu u or are out oj lM 
)1llvdiction. 
No. 3.
Notice of Writ in lku of lO't'ioe to be girm out oj'tMjurudktion. 
To G.H., of
Take notice, that .A.B., of h&& commenced 
an action against you, G.H., in the Division of Her
Majesty's High Court of Justice in England, bv writ of that Court, 
dated the day of , A.D. 18 ; which writ ia indorsed
as follows L copy infull tM i,ul01"1emeftta], and you are required within 
days after the receipt of this notice, inclusive of the d"y af 
such receipt, to defend the said action, by cauaing an appearance to
be entered for you in the aid court to the said action ; and in 
default of your so doing, the said A.B. may, by leave of the court or
a judge, proceed therein, and judgment may be given in your 
absence.
You may appear to the eaid writ by entering an appearance per- 
sonally or b1 your solicitor at the [ ] office at
(Signed) A.B. of 4-c. 
J' 1'' 2
In the High Court of J111tice. 
Division. 
No. 2. 
Writ far ~ out of t/ce fa,rvdictio,a, ortoAere tWtioe ilku of HN'ice 
v to 6e giMI ofll oftM faru,liction. 
187 [ Here pvt tAe ldter ad ntllllber, l 
.In the High Court of Justice. Between .A.B. Plaintiff,
Division. aud 
C.D. and E.F. Defendant.. 
VICTOBU, b1 the grace of God, cfc. 
187 [ He,-e put_ IM leuer and number.]
Between .A.B. Plaintiff, 
C.D., E.F., and G.H. 
and
Defendant& 
or
X.Y.of 4'<'. 
Solicitor for A.B. 
High Court of Jnetice.
[Chancery] Di vision . 
No. 6 .
llemorm1dum of A.ppeamrace. 
187 [ Herc put ~ ktur a11d nrnllber. J 
.A.B. v. C.D., and others.
Enter an appearance for 
in thia action.
Dated this 
day of
X. Y., Solicitor for the Defendant.. 
The place of business of X.Y. ls
His addrees for service is 
No. 4. 
Writ in .Admiralty adioni11 rm&. 
187 . [ Here pat tM ktur and ,..mbtr.]
In thHi~h Court of Justice. 
Admiralty Division.
Between A.B, pllliutiff, 
and
Owners. 
VIC'l'ORIA., cfc. 
To the owner, and partiee Interested in the ship or vf'8181
[Margl [or cargo, cfc., <U iM Nm may bel of the port of 
We liereby authorize officer of Our Supreme Court.
and all and singular hie substitutes, to arrest the ship or vt!fl8el 
[Mary], of the port of and the cargo laden therein
[ or cargo, (j'c., <U t'/ae aue may be 1, and to keep the same under safe
arrest until he shall receive forther orders from 11& And we 
command you, the owners and other partit-1 interested in tho said
ship and Cl rgo [ or cargo, (j'c., a, the casmag bt l that within eight
days llfter the arrest of the said vessel [ or cargo, 4'c., a, tM ~ 
may be] you do cause an appearance to be entered for you in the 
Admiralty Division of our Hi~h Court of Justice in an action at
the suit of A.B. ; and take notice, that in default of your so doing 
our said court will proceed to hear the 1&id action and to pronounce
judgment therein, your abeence notwithatanding. 
No. 6. 
Form of Memorandum for ~d Writ.
lo the High Court of Justice. 
Division.
Between A..B., plaintifff, 
and
C.D., defeudanL 
Seal renewed writ of summons in thia action indorsed u Iollows: 
[ Copg original u,rit and tAe indor#mentL] 
or [ C.D., Defendant in pereon. 
The addreas of C.D. is
Bia Addre11 for service is ,1 
'fhe said defendant [requires, or, does nut require] a statemeut
of complaint to be filed and delivered. 
[ Here pvt tM ktter and nambw.]
In the High Court of Justice. 
Queen's Bench (or Chancery, C.P., or, <fc.) Diriaion.
Between A.B., plaintifff, 
To Mr. X.Y., plaintifff's solicitor. 
and 
C.D., and 
E.} ., defendant&
The defendant C.D. limits his defense to p&ri only of the pro
perty mentioned in the writ in this action, that ia to e&y, to the 
close called the " Big Field." 
No. 7. 
Youn, &c. 
PART IL 
81WTIOl'I L 
GDBBAL ll'fl>OB8JDIDT8. 
In Jfattn-1 a,,ig,,ed by t4e 34th &ctio1' of tlae .Act to t4e Chancery
Ditri.non. 
1. Creditor to ~ &tau.
The plaintifffs claim is as a creditor of X. Y., of deceued, 
to have the [real andJ personal estat.eof thesaidX.Y. a.dminist.ered.
The defendaut C.D. 18 sued as the administrator of the said X, Y. 
[and tbe defendAnta E.F. and G.B. as his co-heirs-at-law]. 
2. Legatu to admi-rt,i,t'1" &tau. 
The plaintifff's claim is as a legatee under the will dated the
day of 18 , of X. Y. deceased, to have the 
[ real and] personal estate of tba said X. Y. administered. The defendant C.D. is sued aa the e:1:eoutor of the said X. Y. [ and the
defendants E.F. and G.B. as his deviseee.. 
8. Partr&erl&ip. 
The plaintifff's claim is to have an account taken of the partnership dealings between the piaintiff and defendant [under articles of 
partnership dated the day of ], and to hue
the affairs of the partnership wound up. 
4. By Mortgagll. 
G.H., 
Solicitor for the said defendant C.D. 
The plaintifff's claim is to have an aooount taken of what is due
to him for principal, interest, and oosts on a mortgage dated the 
day of ma.de between Lor 
by cupo,it of title <iud.fj, and that the mortgage may be enforced
by foreclosure or sale. 
6. B-v Mortgagor.
The plaintifff's claim is to have an account taken of what, if any- 
thing, is due on a mortgage dated and made be- 
tween r partiu], and to redeem the property compriaed therein. 
8BOTI01' ll.
Mon,ey C/rzjm, tOMre "Special lndorfflMltl ado- Order Ill., Ruk 6. 
G<>O<U aold.-The plaintifff's claim 11 l. for the price of good.I 
told. 
[Tkil form ""1Jl ,u~ u,he/Mr the claim be in re,pect oj gooda 
,old and ckli~d, or of good, bargainI mad .ala.] 
M~ lent.-Tbe pl&intiff's claim ia l: for money lent [a!ld 
inurut]. 
&f1fflll demand,.-The plaintifff's claim la l., whereof l. 
ts for the price of goods sold, and L for money lent, and
l: for interest. 
Rent.-Tbe pl&intill's claim is l. for arroa1'8 of rent.
&1'!1"!1_, cfc.-Tho plaintifff's claim is l. for arrears of salary 
as a clerk [ o,a, tAe C(Ue may_ be 1
Jntere,t.-Tbe pl"intiff's claim ia l. for intereet upon money
~L - 
Gerwal arerage.-Tbe plaintifff'claim la l; for a .general
av~ contribution. 
Fmghu, cfc.-The plaintifff's claim ts l. for freight and
demurrage. 
The plaintifff's cl&im is l. for ligbterage.
Tolh.-The plaintifff's claim ia L for market tolls and 
stallage.
Penaltiea.-The plaintifff'claim la l. for penalties under the 
Statute. r . . . . ] . 
.&.mur', ~-The plaintifff's claim fa l. for money deposited with the defendant as a banker. 
Feee; cfc. a, IOlicitora.-The plaintifff's claim la l. for fees for
work done [ and l. money ezpmdedJ aa a solicitor. 
Commimon.-The plaintifff's claim 19 l. for oommiuion
earned as [,tote character; a,~' cotlolt broiw, 4'c.]. 
Medical atundance., cfc. -The plaiotiff'a claim ii L for 
medioal attendances. 
6. Rauing Portiou. 
The plaintifff's claim is that the sum of
indenture of settlement dated 
the portions of the younger children of
be r&iaed. 
7. ~ion of T,wu. 
The plaintifff's olaim la to have the tnats of an
and made between 
execution. 
8. Canodlation or &ctification. 
The plaintUl's claim ia to hue a deed dated and 
made beLween [paniu], eet aside or rectified.
9. Bp,cific Poof~. 
L, which by an 
, was provided for 
indenture dated
, oarried into 
Tho plaintitl'1 claim is for specific performance of an agreement
dated the day of , for the aale by the plaintifff 
t l the defendant of certain Uruhold] heredit&men&I at. 
may 
&/urn oj pr'fflliwn.-The plaintifff's claim ia l. for a return
of promiwns paid upon policies of ioaurance. 
W~ rfflt.-The plaintifff's claim ia I. for the ware- 
housing of goods. 
Cam.agt, of goo<b.-Tbe p}ajntf11"s claim ia l; for the carriage
of goods by railway. 
Uu and occupation oj """-.-The plalnillr's claim ia I. for
the use and occupation of a house. 
Hire of gooda.-The plaintifff's c}ajm fl l; for the hire ~
[tir,titure ]. 
Work done.-The plaintifff's claim ia l. for work done u a
surveyor. 
Botd aitd l"9ing.-The plaintifff's c}ajm ia L for board and
lodging. 
&Aooling.-The plaintifff's claim ia I. for board, lodging, and
tuition of X. Y. 
Money recfttitd.-The plaintifff's claim 11 I. for money re.
oelved by the defendant as BOlloitor [ or jact<>r, ur colkctor, or, 4'c.] of
the plaintifff. 
Feu of o.ffec&-The plaintifff's claim Is Z. for fees received by 
the defendant under colour of the oflloe of Money ~-The plaintifff's claim Is I. for a retorn of 
money overcharged for tJie carriage of goods by railway.
The plaintifff's c}ajm ia l. for a retorn of fees overcharged 
by the defendant u . 
&tNrn oj money by ltakdolMr.-The plaintifff's claim is I.
for a return of money deposited ith the defendant aa stakeholder. 
M<>MV uron, from liakeholder.-The plaintifff's claim is l. for
money Intrnsted to the defendant as stakeholder, and beoome pay
able to plaintifff.
M,mey intMUted. to agent.-The plaintifff's claim ls l. for a 
return of money intrusted to the defe!ldant aa agent of the
plaintifff. 
M<>My o6tained bg fraud.-The plaintifff's claim is I. for a
return of money obtained from the plaintifff by fraud. 
MOM.y paid by muta~-The plaintifffs claim ls l. for a
return of money paid to the defendant by mistake. 
Money paid for conaid.emtioo tohicA h4I faikd.-The plaintifff's
claim is l. for a return of money paid to the defendant for 
[ tDOrk to l,e doM, kft wadoM i or, a bill to be ,.,. "P, not tam 
up, or, cfc. l
The pla1ntiff's claim is I. for a return of money paid as a 
deposit upon shares to be allotted.
Money paid by mrdy for tkfendant.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is I. 
for money paicf for the defendant as his auretl.
Rent paid.-The plaintifff's claim is for money paid for 
rent due by the defendant.
Money paid on accommodation l>iU;-Tbe plaintifff's claim ia I. 
upon a bill of exchange accepted [ or indor,ed] for the defendant's
accommodation. 
Contribution bg auretg. - The plaintifff's claim is L for a
contribution in respect of. money paid by the plaintifff a.a surety. 
Bg co-d.ebtor.-'l'he plaintifff's claim is I. for a contribution 
In respect of a joint debt of the plaintifff and the derendant, paid
by the plaintifff. 
M~ paid for call,.-Tbe plaintifff's claim fa I, for money
paid for calls upon shares, against which the defendant. was bound
to indemnify the plaintifff. 
Monty pngafile wader award.-The plaintifff's claim is I. for
mo_n!l1 payable under an award. 
Lije Policy.-The plaintifff's claim is l. upon a policy of
Insurance upon the life of X. Y., deceased. 
Money bond.-The plaintifff's claim ls L upon a bond t.o 
secure payment of 10001. and interest.
FoM(lftjudgmmt.-The plaintifff's claim la l. upon a judg- 
ment of the Court, in the .Empire of' Roui... 
Bill, of exchange, ctc,-The pl&intiff's claim is L upon a
cheque drawn by the defendant. 
1'he plaintifff's claim fa l. upon a btll of E1Xchange accepted 
[ or dravm or indor~ by the defendant.
The plaintifff's claim fa l. upon a promissory note made 
[ or indor,ed] by the defendant.
The plaintifff's claim fa l. against. the defendant A.B. u 
acceptor, and against the defendant C.D. as drawer [or indor,er] 
of a bill of exchange.
8urttJI.-The plaintifff's claim fa l. against the defendant aa 
surety lor the price of good.a sold.
The plaintifff's claim is I. against the defendant .A.B. u 
prinoipl\l, and against the defendant C.D. as surety, for the price
of goods sold [ or arTear1 <J.I ,-ent, or for ~ knt, or for ~ 
re~ir,ed by tM ilej'endant ...t.B. cu trat>elier for tM plainiij/1, or, etc.] 
Del credere agent.-The plaintifff's claim i.e C against i.he
defendant &a a del credere agent for the price of goods sold [ or a, 
louu tmde- a policy].
Call,.-The plaintifff's claim i8 l. for calls upon sbaree. 
Waggoing cropa_, ctc--The plaintifff's claim is I. for orope,
tiJlage, man Ul'88 r or a, t/ae CQ,H ff1tJY b,] leh by the defendant &8 
outgoing tenant. o1 a farm. 
8EcrION IV.
Damage, and other claiffl8, 
Agmt, cfc.-The plaintifff's olaim fe for damages for breach of a
contract to employ the plaintifff as traveller, 
The plaintifff's claim 18 for dant&gf'S for wrongful dismiual from
the defendant's employment &8 traveller rand I. for arrear, OJ 
toagu]. 
8BCTION 111.
I~ for Co,t,, ,tc. [add to tAe aboi,e Forrn,]. 
And l. for coata : and if the :amount olaimed be paid to
the plaintifff or hfa solicitor wit.bin four days ( or if tl&e tD1'it ii to 6e 
~d out of tlae juri,didion, or notice in lieu of ~ allotoed,
inlert 1441 tfflMI for appea,vnce limited by fM onkr 1 from the service
hereof, further proceedings will be stayed. 
The plaintifff's claim ia for dam&ftelJ for the defendant's wrong
fully quitting the plaintitr'a employment u mauager.
The plaintifff's claim is for dam.agea for breach of duty u factor 
[or, <fc.] of the plaintifff [and I. for money rtit:ied tU 
/actor, ifc] .
.Apprentice.,.-The flalntitr's claim ia for damages for breach of 
the terms of a deed o apprentioeahip of X. Y. to the defendaut [ or 
plaintiff.]
Arbitratwn.-The plaintifff's claim is for damages for non-com
pliance with the award of X. Y.
Auatdl, ifc.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damage& for u,ault 
f and fa/M \~, and for maliciou, pro,cfltio,L 
B.'I ,\u,bana and 1'\fe.-Tbe plaintifff's ofaim ie for dam&gN for
1188>tult and fal8e imprisonment of the plaintifff C.D. 
Agaimt lua6cmd and wije.-Th~ plafutitr'a olRim ill f,,r damage& 
for 888&ult by the defendant C.D. 
&licitor.-Tbe plaintitr'a claim is for ~magee for injury by the
defendant's negligence a.a solicitor of the plaintifff . 
.&ilmtrtt,-The plaintitr'1 claim is for da~ for negl~nce in
the custody of goods (and for tlfr'Oft!lfullg detaining tM mme]. 
Pkdge.-The plaintifff's claim i8 Tor damages for negliience fn
tbe keeping of goods pawned [ and Jw tDNmgjullg cktaining i1uJ ,ame ]. 
Hin!.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damar for neiligenoe in the
custody of furniture lent on hire [or a carnag~ lent], Landforun-ong
fvll!J, 4-c,]
&mlrr.-The flrt:intitr'a claim ia for damages for wrougfull7 
neglecting [or re~ng] to p&f the plaintifff's cheque.
Bill.-The plamtiff's claim 18 for damages for breach of a con
tract to accept the plaintifff's drafts.
.Bond.-The plaintifff's claim is upon a bond conditioned not to 
carry on the trade of a Carrier.-The flaintiff'a claim is for damages for refusing to 
carry the plaintifffs goods by railway.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for refusing to oarry the 
plaintifff by nil way.
The plaintifff's claim ill for damages for breach of daty in and 
about the carriage and delivery of coala by railway.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach of duty fn and 
about the carriage and delivery of machinery by sea.
l'Aarter-partg.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach 
of charter.party of ship [Mary].
Cloim {<11' return of goo<b; dmnagu.-The plaintifff's claim ill for 
retum o honaebold furniture, or, &c., or their value, and for
damagea for detainin~ the same. 
Dainagu for ~cing oj good,.-Tbe plaintifff's claim fa for
wrongfully deprivmg plaintifff of goods, bcusehold furniture, &c. 
.Defamation.-The plaintifff's claim is tor damages for libel.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for slander. 
~; replenn.-The plaintifff's claim is in replevin for goodl
wrongfull_1 distrained. 
Wrongful dutru,.-The plaintifff's claim is for damagea for impro~rly diatraintng. 
[T4i, form Mall be ,ujfitMnt toAetAer tA, dutrell ~d oj 
be ~or ~oe, or i~1 and~ tAe claiaa 
b6 for onl , or or double tJalM J 
Efadrnmt.-The p u'ls ~m is to reoover l)Olle88ion of a
house, No. fn street, or of a farm cabed Blaekacre, 
situate in the parish of in t.he county of 
To utahlula ti& and NlOOm" renu.-'fhe J>l&inWf'a claim Is to
eetablish his title to (Aere ~ properly I, and to recover the 
rents thereof. 
[ ~ hoo prmou, fonn6 May be combillecl.]
D0toer.-The plaintifff's claim is for dower. 
1 
Fvlaert,. -'l'be plaintifff's cl&im i8 for damages for Infringement
of the plaintifff's right of 8ahing. 
Fmud.-The plainillf's claim la for damages for fraudulent mia
repreeent.&tion on the aa!e of a horse [ qr a burinea,, or a.win,,,"' fc.] 
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for fraudulent mlsrepN1118D.tation of the credit of A.B. 
G~-The plaintifff's claim fa for damagea for breach of contract of guarantee for A.B. 
The plaintifff's claim ia for damages for breach of a contract to
indemnify the plaintifff aa the defendant'agent to dietrain. 
Jnau1"0ftCt..-The plaintifff's claim Is for a. loee under a policy
upon the ship "Royal Obarter," and freight or cargo [ or far 
nstum n.f premium.al. 
[ nu jorm ,Juill be njficit,nt toladMr tAe lou claintetl 6e total or
partial.] 
MN ~-The plaintifff's claim fa for a. lou under a 
policy of fire insurance upon house and f1ll'Diture.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach of a oontraot to 
ineuni a house. 
Landlo,'Cl mtd tmm.t.-The plaintifff's ola.im fa for damages for
breach of contract to keep a house in repair. 
The plaintifff's ola.im t, for damagee for breaches of oovenanta
contained in the lease of a. farm. 
Mlical man..-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damages for fnjnry to
the plaintifff from the defendant's negligence aa a medical man. 
Millcl&inou, animal.-Tbe plaintUl"s claim ia for damages for
injury by the defendant's dog. 
Negli~-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for dam~ for inju"}' to
tbe plaintifff [or, if by hullxmd and 'VS, to the plai'lfli.ff, C.D.J by 
the negligent ariviog of the defendant or bis servants.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for injury to the plaintifff 
while a. pas.tenger on the defendant's railway by the negligence 
of the defendant's servants.
The plaintifff'11 cl&im ia for dal:D&Res for injury to the plaintlff 
at the defendant's railW&y station, from the defective condition of
the station. 
Lord Campbelf, Act.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is as esecutor of 
A.B. deceased, for damages for the de&th of the said .A..b., from
iojuriee received while a puaenger on the defendant's railway, 
by tbe negligence of the defendant's servants.
Pr<nnile of ~e.-The plaintifff's claim ia for damages for 
breach of promise of marriage.
Quare impedit.-The plaiDt.iff's claim is in qllClre ifff*lit for 
&dtlction.-The pl&intiff'a claim is for damages for the seduction
of the plaint.ura daughter. 
Sak oj goodl.-The plaintifff's cl&im ia for dam&ges for breach
of contract. to aooept and p&y for goods. 
The plaintifff's claim is for d&magea for non-deli very [ or short
deliverr, or defective quality, or olk,brt4Ch of contract oJ ,ale] of 
cotton L or, 4f'c.1 
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach of warranty of a
ho1'88. 
&le oj land.-The plaintifff's cla.im is for damages for breach of
a contract to sell r or purcha.H I land. 
The plaintifff's claim ia for ila.magea for breach of a eontrad to 
let r 07fake] II, house.
'!"be plaiJltiff's claim is for damages for breach of a contract to 
Bell [or purcAa,el the lease, with goodwill, fixtures, and atoek in
trade of a public house. 
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach of covenant for
title [ or for ~ enfaym,ent, or, etc. J in a conveyance of land. 
Trupau to land.-=.'l'he plaintifff's claim is for damages for wrongfully entering the plaintifff's land and drawing water from his well 
[ or cutting Im grau, or pul.ling down Tua timber, or pulling dotm Aia 
Jencu, or rt111Wring l&u gatt, or wing l&ia road Of' pat1&, or cromng hia
fald, or ~positing ,and tlwe, or ca1-ryi1lfl away grarel from t4mce, or 
carrying au,ag ,tone, from Iii, river].
Support.-The plaintifff's claim is for damages for wrolully 
taking awa the support of plaintifff's land [or Aouae, or mi~ . 
Wa.y.-'rLe plaintifff's claim is for damages for wrongf yobatructlng a way [pw,lic highu,ag or a primu toayl. 
Watercour,e, <fc.-Tbe plaintifff's cfaim is for damages for wrongfully diverting [or <>68tructing, or polluting, or diflerling taate,, from] 
a watercourse.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for wron~ully discharging 
water upon the plaintifff's land ror into t}fe plaintiJ'rninel.
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for wrongfully ofistructing 
the plaintifff's use of a well.
Pcuture.-The plaintifff'e claim is for damages for the infringe
ment of the ylaintiff's right of pasture. 
[This form IAaU be auj/icient whatever tAe nature of tlae rigAt to 
LigAt.~i:;ep~iJtiff's claim is for damages for obstructing the 
&e<:888 of light to plaintifff's house. 
Bporting.-The plaintifff's claim is for d&magea for the infringement of the plaintifff'e right of sporting. 
Patent.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for d&mages for the infringement of the plaint.iff'e patent. 
Copy,-ight.-The plamtiff's claim is for damages for the infringement of the plaintifff's copyright. 
Trade Mark.-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damages for wrongfully
using ror imitating] the plaintifff's trade mark. 
Wo,l..-Tbe plaintifff's claim is for damages for breaoh of a eon.
tract to build a ship [ or to repair a howe, 4'c.] 
The plaintifff's claim is for damages for breach of a contract to 
employ the plaintifff to build a ship, cfc. 
N1'UefflC&-Tbe plaintifff's claim ia for damages to bis bonae,
tree., crops, &o., caused by noxious vapolll'8 from the defendant's 
factory I or, cfc.J 
The plaintifffs olalm is for damages from nul1&nce by noiee from
the defendant's works [ or atablu, or, cfc.] 
J~.-The plaintifff's claim is for damages for l<>M of the
plaintifff's goods in the defendant's inn. 
Add to indonement :Mandamu,.-And for a mandamus. 
Add to indorsement :/njunctiOfl.-And for an injunction. 
Ada to /,ado, aemmt u,M,-e claim ta to lad, or to e,tal,liM title, or bol4.
M~ prof!J,1.-And for mesne profits. 
.Anvara oft'fflt..-And for an account of rent.a or arrears of rent.
Brfflc/a of cot1fflant.-.A.nd for breach of covenant for [repa.ir,l. 
SECTION v. 
Pro1Jau.
1. By an eucutor or kgou,e propounding a ttliU iR IOlffltll fOf"fll. 
The plaintifff claims to be executor of the last will dated the
day of of C. W., laLe of gentleman, deceased. 
who died on the day of and to have the &&id will 
eetablished. This writ is issued against you as one of the next of
kin of the said deceased [ or a1 tJ,e cue may be 1, 
2. By an e:eectdor or kgaltt of affYf'ff&ef' vrill, or a~ of~ tfc.
o,I tJie ckcwd ,uking to obtain tJie reuooal,ion of a Probau grmtted 
"'comrnort/orm. 
The plaintifff claims to be executor of the lut will dated the
day of of C.D., late of gentleman, deceased, 
who died on the day of and to have the probate
of a pretended will of the aid deceased, dated the day of 
revoked. This writ is issued against 7ou as the executor
of the said pretended will [ or a1 tJie cme may be J
8. Bg an e:cutor or legat_ee of a tDill u,hen kiter, of admittUtratiors 
~ve ~et, granted a, in an intutacy. 
The plaintifff claimr. to be executor of the last will of C.D., late
of gentleman, deceased, who died on the day
of dated the day of 
The plaintifff claims that the graot of letters of administraUon of
the personal estate of the said deceased obtained by you should be 
revoked, and probate of tho said will granted to him.
4. &, a ptt'Mm claiming a grnnt of adminiatratum aa a MZt of A:ua 
of tAe tlecealetl, but wlwle interul tu rw:t oj kin i, dilpuwl. 
The plaintifff claims to be the brother and sole oext of kin of C.D., 
of , gentleman, deceaeed, who died on the day
of intesLate, and to have as such a grant of administra. 
tioo to the personal estaLe of the said intestate. This writ ia issued
agaiust you because you have entered a caveati_ and have alleged
that you are the sole next of kin of the deoeaaed [ 01tu tM ca,e ma., 
bel. 
(g.) 8&enoN VL 
..&~. 
1. ~ to tWMl by collilio,a.
The plaintifffs u ownera of the veuel "Kary," of the port 
of claim lOOOL agaimt the brig or vNieel "Jane" for
d&mage occuioned by collTaion, which took place in the North 
Bea in the month of Jlay lasL
2. ~ to cargo by ro/lw,n. 
The r,lainWfs as owners of the cargo laden on board the veuel
'' Mary, of the port of claim L again8t the veuel
"Jane," for damage done to the aaid cargo in collision in the 
North Sea in the month of May Jut. 
[The two previous forms may be combined.]
3. Damage"' cargo~- . 
The plaintifff u owner of goods laden on board the v~I "Mary,.,
on voyage from Lisbon to England, claims from the owner of the
said veaeel L for damage done to the said goods during such
voyage. 
4. [,a OIJUIU of p<>UUWJlt. 
The plaintUf as sole owner of the veuel "Mary," of the port 
of claims to have poeeeuion decreed to him of the aid
veuel. 
5. The plaintifff cla.ims poaeearion of the veuel "Mary," of the
port of as owner of 48-64th shares of the aaid veeeel
against C.D., owner of 16-64th shares of the said veueL 
6. The plaintifff as part owner of the veeeel 
:Mary," claims
against C.D., part owner and his shares in the said veaeel l. u
part of the earnings of the said veuel due to plaintifff. 
O 
7. 1'he plaintifff u owner of 48-64th shares of the veasel "J4ary,'' 
of the port of claims poseeeeica of the &aid brig as again1t 
CJ)., the muter thereof.
8. The plaintifff under a mo~e, dated the day of 
claims against the vesael u Mary,' l., being the amount of bfa 
mortgage thereon, and L for Interest,
9. '!'he plaintifff as &88ignee of a bottomry bond, dated the 
day of and granted by C.D., aa maater of the veaaeJ 
Mary/' of the port of to A.B., at St. Tbomu's, in the
West lndiee, claims l; against the veeeel "Mary" and the 
O 
cargo laden thereon.
10. By a parl oioner of a r,u,el. 
The plaintifff as owner of 24-64tb shares of the veuel "Mary,"
being dissatisfied with the management of the said vessel by hia 
co-owners, claims that bis co-owners shall give him a bond in I. 
for the value of the plaintifff's said shares in the aid Ve81181. 
11. The plaintifffs, u owners of the derelict vessel 
Jdary," of
the port of claim to be put in poeeel8ion of the said 
vessel and her ca.rgo. 
12. By aalrora. 
The plaintifffs, as the owners, m.uter, and crew of the veuel 
" Caroline," of the port of claim the sum of I. for
salvage services performed by them to the vessel 
Mary," off the
Uood win Sanda, on the nay of 
II 
II 
18. Claim for Towage.
The plaintifffs as owners of the steam-tu, "Jane," of the port 
of claim l. for towage services performed by the
Nid steam-tug to the ve11Sel " M.ary,'' on the day of 
14. &aFMn'Wagu.
The plaintifffs, aa seamen on board the vessel " :Mary,'' 
claim l. for wagee due to them, as follows (1), the mate 80:. 
for two months' wages from the day of 16. For Neceaariu. 
The plaintifffs claim L for neoess&ries SUf plied to the veeeel
"Mar7," at the port of Newcaatle-on.Tyne, delivered on the 
day o and the day of 8BOTioN VIL 
lJpecial lndOf'#llneflU undet- Order 111., RMle 6.
1. The plaintifff's claim is for the price of goods sold. The fol. 
lowing are the particulars :1873-Blst Deoember.- 
Balanoe of account for butcher's meat .S ,. d. 
to this date ... ... ... ..85 10 0
1874-lst January to 31st :March.- 
Butcher's meat supplied ... 74 5 0
109 15 0 
1874.-lst February.-Pald. 
2nd February-To goods 
Srd March-To gooos . 
17th March-To gooda .
5th April-To goods 
202 1 0
8. The plaintifff's claim is against the defendant, as maker of a 
promiuory note. The following are the particulars:Promissory note for 250L, dated 1st January, 1874, made by 
defe11dant, payable four months after date.
.
Principal ... 260
Interest ... .. ... ... . 
4. The plaintifff's claim is against the defendant A.B. as aooeptor,
and aga.inat the defendant C.D. as drawer, of a bill of exchange
The following are the particulars :- 
Bill of exchange for 500L, dated lat January, 1874., drawn by
defendant C.D. upon and accepted by defendant. LB., payable 
three months after date. 
46 0 0 
Balance due ..!64 15 0 
2. The plafatiff's claim is against the defendant, A.B., as prin.
cipal, and against the defendant, C.D.bu surety, tor the price of
goods sold to .A.B. The following are t e particulaN :- 
1874-2nd February. Ouarant,e by C.D. of the price of woolleD
goods, to be supplied to A.B. 
..! ,. d.
.47 15 0 
105 14 0
... 14 12 0 
... 84 0 0 
.B
Princip,J ... ... ... ... ... 600 
Interest ... ... ... ..
5. The plaintifff's claim is for principal and intereet due upon a 
bond. The following are the particulars:Bond dated 1st Janu&r'J1 1873. Condition for payment of 1001. 
on the 26th December 187B. .B
Principal due ... ... ... ... 60 
Interest ... .... 6. The plaintifff's claim la for principal and intereet due under a 
covenant. The following are the particulars:Deed dated covenant to pay lOOL and interest. 
Principal due 80
Interest . 
8ECTIO!f VIIL
l~ of l".\aract,r of Pamu. 
E.uewor .. -The plaintifff's claim ie as executor [or~]
of C.D., deoeaaed, or, 4'c. 
1'he [>l&intitf's claim is against the defendant A.B., u ezecutor
[or, cfc.J of C.D., deoeued, for, 4"c. 
The plaintifff's claim la agaiust the defendant A.B., u exeoato?of X. Y., deceued, and against the defendant C.D., In hie peraonal 
capacity, for, cfc. 
By lnuband and v,ife, e:recutriz.-The claim of the plaintUI' C.D. la 
u executrix of X.~ decMsed, and the olaim of the plaintifff A..B. 
u her husband, for 
Agawt ltu6aAd and unfe, e.zuutrie..-Th& claim of the plaintifff la
againat the defendant C.D.1 u executm of the defend&nt C.D., 
deceaeed, and a.gaiut the derendant A.B., u her husband for
T~ i,a baMrupk'J.-The plaintttra claim la u trustee under 
the bankruptcy of A.B.. for The plaintUf'a claim la against the defendant u trustee under the 
bankruptcy of A.B., for .
nwttu.-The _plaintifff's claim is u Lor tM f)lai,ati_ff", clain& i, 
agaimt tM cufc,,uiant aa] trustee under \he will of .A.:li [ or .....,.
tA. ~ upo,a IM mamage of A.B. and X. Y., /ti, toift]. 
Public oj}br.-The plaintifff's claim is as public offloer of the
bang, for 
This plaintifff's claim fa against the defendant a11 public officer of
the bank for 
The plaintifff's claim is against the defendant .A.B. u principal,
and against the defend&nt C.D. as public officer of the b6llk,
&II surety, for 
Btlir and ~.-The plaintifff's claim fa against the defendant
u beir-a~law of A.B., deoeaaed. 
The plaintifff's claim is against the defendant C.D. u heir-at-lawi
and against the defendant E.F. as devisee of lands under the wfl 
of A.B. 
Qui tam actfo,a,-The plaint.i!'a claim is as well for the Queen a, 
for himself, for 
.e 
In the Wgh CourL 
APPENDIX (B).
FolUI 1. 
N~ by ~endant to '11,ird Party.
187 [ Berput tM kiter mad """'6er.] 
Notice filed , 187 In the Bfgh Oourl 
Queen's Bench Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendanL 
To Kr. X.Y. 
Take notice that this action baa been brought by the plaintifff
against the defendant [u surety for M.N.] upon a bond conditioned 
for payment of 2000L and interest to the plaintifff.
The defendant claim.a to be en tit.lad to oontribuUon from you to 
the extent of one-h11.lf of any sum which the plaintifff may recover 
against him, on the ground that you are rhis oo.nrety under the 
said bond, or, also surety for the said M.N .in respect of the said 
matter, under an~er bond made by you in favour of the ll&id
plaintifff, dated the day I A.D. ,. 
Or r aa acceptor of a bill of exchange for 5001., dated tLe
day of , A,D. drawn by you before and 
accepted by the defendant, and payable three months after date.
The defendant claims to be indemnified by you against liability 
under the said bill, on the ground that it was aooepted for your
accommodation.] 
Or L to recover damages for a breach of a contract for the aaJe and
delivery to the plaintifff of 1000 tons of coal. 
The defendant claims to be indemnified by you ag,Jnst liability
in respect of the said contract, or any breach thereof, on the pond
th&t it Wa8 made by him OD your behalf and &8 your arnt.j _ 
And take notice that, if you wish to dis_pute the plaintifff's claim
in this action u against the defendant C.D., you mut cause an 
appearance to be entered for you within eight days after aervioe of
this notice. 
In default of your so appearing, you will not be entitled in any
future proceeding between the defendant C.D. and yourself to
dispute the validity of the judgment in this action, whether 
obtained by consent or otherwise.
(Signed) E.T. 
Or, X. Y .. solicitor for the defendant, E.T.
Appearance to be entered at 
FoaK 2. 
Queen's Bench Division.
Bet...,een A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant. 
The pla.fntiff confesaee the defense etated In the paragraph of the
defendant's statement of defense [or, of the defendant'further 
statement of defense.] 
In the High Court of Justice.
Diviaion. 
To the within.named X. Y. 
FoRH 7.
Form of lnurrogaloriu. 
In the High Court of Juatioe. 1874. B. No.
Division. 
Between .A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., E.P., and G.B.1 defendant.a.
Interrogatories on behalf of the above-namea [pla!nti_ff, or 
clefendattt C.D.] for the examination of the above-named [ aifen
danta E.F. and G.B., or plaintifff1.
1. Did not, &c. 
2. Hu not, &c. 
4;c. &c. 4;c. 
FORK 6 
.AC08J1lance of Bum paid iftto Courl.
In the Bl,th Court of Just.foe. 1875. B. No. 
Q.13. Division.
.A.B. v. C.D. 
Tab notice that the plaintifff accepts the aum of I. paid lty
you into court in aat.iafactiou of the claim in respect of which it. fa 
paid in. 
FoBK 6.
Notice qf Pay,nem ink> Cowt. 
In the Hia'h Court of Jut.ice.
Q.13. Division. 
A.B. v. C.D. 
z., 
1875. B. No. 
Take notice that the defendant. baa paid into court L, and
aays that that sum ia enough to satiafy the plaintifff's claim ( &r 
IM plaintifff', claim for, 4'c. l 
187 [ B~""' tM ldur mad tt~r.] 
Fo:ax 8. 
Bet.ween .A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant.
The particular& of the plainUff's complaint herein, and of the 
relief and remedy to which he claims to be eotiLled, appear by the
indorsement upon the writ. of 1ummona. 
Foax 4. 
"Take not.ice that. if you do not appe&r to the wit.bin counter.
claim of the within.named C.D. within eight days from the aemce 
of this defense and counter.claim upon you, you will be liable to
have judgment. ginn againat you in your abeence. 
"Appearanoee are to be entered at 
To "".Mr. X. Y.,
the plaintifff's solicitor. 
Defendant'1 aolicitor. 
FoBII 9. 
Form of Affidm,it a1 to ~. 
In the High Court of Ju.etioe. 187'- B. No.
Division. 
Bet.ween A.B., plaintifff and C.D., defendant. 
I, the above-named defendant C.D, make oath and say a.a 
followa:- 
1. I have in my po88888ion or power the documents relating 
to the matters in question in this suit set forth in the flrat ancl 
8800Dd parts of the first schedule hereto.
2. I object to produce the said documents set fort.h in the 
second p&rt. of the aaid ftrat schedule hereto.
3. That [Mre ,tau t1po,a toiae grountb tAe ob.fedion u made, mtd 
fft"ify tie facu a1 far a., mag be]. 
f. I have had, but have not now, in my poN818ion or power
the document.a relating to the matten1 in question in this suit Bet 
forth in the 8800nd aohedule hereto.
5, The last-mentioned document.a were lut in my poa8888ion 
or power on [ ,tau to.wn ]. 
FoBII 8. 
Form of~ to l~toriu.
In the High Coart of Jaatioe. 187,. B. No. 
Divfsion.
Bet.ween A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., E.F., and G.H., defendant&. 
The answer of the above-named defendant. E.F. to the interrogatoriea for bis e:umin&t.lon by the above-named pl&intitl. 
In anawer to the said interrogatoriea, I, the above-named E.F., 
m&ke oath and say aa followa :- 
6. That [.\ere 6taU toMt luu beCODte oj tM la,t ~ tlocvtnereu, 
aftd in tolwiB Po"~ tky not0 art!].
7. According to the beet of my knowledge. information, and 
beUef, I have not now, and never bad in my p088e8Sion, custody,
or power, or in the poaeession, custody, or power of my soliciton
or agents, solicitor or agent, or in the poasession, cUBtody 
or power
of any other persona or person on my behalf, any deed, aooount,
book of aocount, voucher, receipt, letter, memorandum, paper, or
writing, or any copy of, or extract from any euoh documeni., or
any other document whatsoever, relating to the matt.an in question
in thie suit, or any of them, or wherein any entry bas been made
relative to such matters, or any of them, other than and except the
documente aet forth in the B&id fl.rat and 1eCOnd echedulee hereto. 
1 
Fo)U( 12.
Forw1 oj Notice to adail I>ocum4,nt,. 
In the High Oourt of J uetice.
Division. 
A.B.v. C.D.
Take notice that the plaintifff r or defmdant] in thte 0&1188 pro
poeee to adduce In endenoe t6e several dooumenta hereunder 
E
ifled, and that the same may be inapected by the defendant 
plaintifffl, hie solicitor or agent, at , on ,
ween the ""hours of ; and the defendant [ or plaittlij1 la 
hereby required, within forty-eight hours from the laat-mentloned
hour, to admit that such of the ll&id documents as are apeculed to
be originals were respectfully written, signed1 or executed, as they
purport rspectively to have been; that suen aa aro specified as 
copiee are t.rue copies; and such documents aa are statea to have
been served, sen; or delivered, were so Nrved, sent, or delivered 
respectively; snmg all jw,t exceptions to the admiaeability of all
such documen&a as eTidenoe in this cause. 
Dated, &o. 
FolUl 11.
Fo,,,a of Notice to wpect DOCfllfll:llb. 
In the High Court of J w,tioe.
Q,.B. Division. 
FOJUI 10. 
ForM of Now:t to prodlltt l><>ctMettU.
In the High Court of J astioe. 
Q.13. Dhiaion.
A.B. T. C.D. 
Take no&e that the r plai,,,tiff or def~ requiree you to pro
duce for his ina_pection Oie following d'ooumenta referred to In your 
[llatelJleftt of clai-, or ~f~ or affidavu, dated tlae da, of 
A.D. ]. 
DetcrilJe docWIOlu ,..red. 
X.Y.,
To Z., Solicitor t.o the 
Solicitor for 
A.B. v. C.D.
Take notice that you can inspect the documenta mentioned In 
your notice of the day of A.D. [ ~ t.w 
dd numbered iA tJud notice] at my offloe on Thunday next
the inst.., between the houn of 12 and 4 o'clock. 
Or, that the I p/ainJiff or defendant3 objecta to giving you inspection of the documeota mentioned in your notice of die 
day of A.D 'OD the ground that [tau t4e ground]:- 
To E.F., solicitor [ or agent] for defendant r or plaintifff 1. 
G.H., solicitor [ or age.t] for pf&intiff [ or cujmdant].
[ Here ~ t4e documenu, t4e manneT o/ doing u,,licA may be 
a, follou,, :-1 
Dated
To z., Defendant's Solicitor [ or cu tM caae ,rury be]. 
Foax Jo. 
Form of Ctrtifo:ate of Oj/i,cff' after Trial by a Jury. 
ZOt.h November, 1876. 1876. No.
In the High Court of J u11tioe. 
Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant. 
I certify that this action was tried before the Honourable Mr.
Justice and a special jury of the county of
on the 12th aod 18th days of November, 1876. 
The jury found [,tatefinding1l.
The judge directed that juogment should be entered for the 
plaintiff for l, with costs of summons [ or '" tM ca,e may_ be].
- A.ii., [TiUe of officer.] 
FORM 16.
Affe]arit of Scripu. 
In the High Court of Justice. 
Foax 14. 
Fl>f'Tn of Nol.a of Trial. 
In the High Court of Juatioe.
Divieion. 
A.B. v, C.D.
Take notice of trial of this action [ or of tM iut,u in tlu actiota 
~d to be trittl] by a judge and jury [o,aa t~ ca,e may be] in
Middleeex, [ or tU IM ~ may be J for \he day of 
next.
X.Y., Plaintiff's Solicitor [or cu tM ~maybe]. 
Probate Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant. 
l, A.B. , of , in the county of ,
pa.rty in this cause, make oath and say, that no paper or parchment. 
writ.iug, being or purporting to be or baviog the form or effect of
a will or codicil or other testamentary disposition of E.F., late of 
, in the county of deceased, the deceased in this cause, or being or purporting to ~ instructions for, 
or the draft of, any will, oodicil, or Lest&ment&ry disposition of the
Hid E.F., baa at any time, either before or since hia death, come to
the hands, poeseeeion, or knowledge of me, this deponent, or to the 
bands, poeeeesion, or knowledge of my solicitors in this suit, as fr 
as is known to me, this deponent save and except the true and
original last will and Lest&ment of the said deceased now rt-mainiug
in the principal registry of &bis court [or hereunto annexed, or a, 
I~ easmay be ], tbe said will bearing date tbe day of 
18 r 01' al tl,e CQM may be], also save and
except (here add the Ja;, mu! particular, of_ any ol,/aeittata~rliary 
~' ti.f wluc/& the tkponent Aa, any ~ 1, (Signed) A.B. 
Sworn at on the day ol , 18 
Before me, 
l Per1<m wtlwfiled to adn,i1'ilkr vu.th, UN<k,the Act.] 
APPENDIX (C). 
No.2. 
Adminutration of &late.
[1876. B. No. 283.) 
In the High Court of Justice.
Chancery Division. 
No.1. 
Account 8tatMl.
In the High Oourt of Juatlce. 
Division.
Writ iaued 8rd August, 1876. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defend&nL
8taurMnt of Claim. 
[Name of Judge.]
Writ iaaued 22nd December, 1878. 
In the matter of the eetate of A.B., deoeased.
Between E.F., plaintifff, and G.H., defendant. 
187 B. No. 
1. Claim.-Between the lat of January and the 28th of February
1876, the plaintifff supplied to the defendant varioaa artfclee oi 
draJl81')'; and aooounts and inToicee of the ~ ao supplied, and
thell' prices, were from time to time furnianed to the defendant, 
and paymenta on account were from time to time m&de by the 
defendanL
2. On the 28th February, 1875, a balance remained due to the 
plaintifff of 761. 9a., and on account wu on that day eent by the
plaintifff to the defendant showing that balance. 
8. On the lat of March following, the plaintifff's collector aw
the defendant at bis house, and asked for payment of the said 
balance, and the defendant then paid him by cheque 261. on a.ooount
of the same. The residue of the said balance, amounting to 
501. 9,., bu nner been paid,
The 'Plaint~ claims J!. 
The plaintifff proposee that this action should be tried in the
county of Northampton. 
&atement of Claim.
1. Claim.-A.B. of K.?.. in the county of L., died on the ht of 
July, 187t, intoatate. The defendant G.H. is the adminiatrator
of A.B. 
2. A.B. died entitled to lands in the said county for an estate of
fee simple, and also to some other real estate and to personal estate.
The defendant bas entered possession of the real estate of A.B., and 
received the rents thereof. The legal estate in such real eetate
ia outstanding in mortgages under mortgages crested by the 
intestate.
8 . .A.B. was never married ; he had one brother only, who pre
deceased him witheiut having been married, and two siatera onl71 
both of whom a1ao pre-deceased him, namely, M.N. and P.Q.. The
plainillf ia the only child of M.N., a.od the defeod&Dt ia &be only
child of P.Q. 
The plaintifff claim.&1. To have the real a.od personal e1tate of A.B. adminiatered 
in this court, and for that purpoee to ban all proper 
directiona given a.od aocoont8 taken. 
2. To h&Te a receiver appointed of the rent. of bia real eetat.e. 
3. Such further or othel' relief u the nature of the cue may
require. 
In the High Coart of Justice.
Chancery Di Tiaion. 
[Name of Judge.] 
[18i6. B. :Ko. 283.]
In the High Court of Justice. 
Chancery Division. 
[Name of Judge.]
In the matter of the estate of A.B., deceased, 
Between E.F., plaintifff, and G.H., deCendanL 
In the High Court of Justice.
Chancery Division. 
[Name of Judge.] 
Reply. 
Reply.-The plainUff joins issue with the defendant upon his
defense. 
No. 8. 
Writ issued 22nd December, 1876. 
In the matter of the estate of A.B., deceued.
Between E.F., plaintifff, and G.H., defendant. 
[1876. B. No. 283.] 
In the matter of the estate of A.B., deceaeed. 
Between E.F., plaintifff, and G.H., defendant.
&atffltfflt oj Dtjffll:C, 
1. Dtfence.-The plainillf is an illegitimate child of M.N. She
was never married. 
2. The intestate waa not entitled to any real estate at his death,
e:1:cept a copybold estate situate in the county of R., and held of
the manor of S. According to the cuatom of that manor, when the 
copyholder diee without iuue. and without leaving a brother, or
issue of a deceased brother, the copyhold deecends to his elder 
sister and her iseue in preference to liia younger 1f1ter and her
issue. P.Q. waa older than M.N. 
3. The personal estate of A.B. was not sufficient for the payment
or his debts, and bas all been applied in payment of his funeral and 
testamentary expenees, and part of his debc.s. 
[1876. B. No. 234.] 
l'laim.-1. A.B. of K., in the county of L., duly made his last 
will, dated the 1st day of March, 18i3, whereby be appointed t.he 
defendant and M.N. (who died in the testator's lifetime) executors
thereof, and devised and bequeathed his real and pen,onal eetate to 
and to the use of bia executors in trust., to pay the rent.a and income tbffllOf to the plaintifff for bis life; &nd after his deceue, and 
in default of his having a eon who should attain 21, or a daughter
who should attain that age, or marry, upon trust u to bis real
estate for the person who would be the testator's heir-at. law, and 
as to bis personal estate for the persona who would be the
testator's next of kin if he bad died int.estate at the time of t.be 
death of the plaintifff, and suoh failure of his issue as aforesaid.
2. The testator died on the 1st day of July, 1878, and bia will 
W88 proved by the defendant on the 4th of October, 1873. The
plaintifff ha.a not been married. 
a. The testator wu at hie death entitled to real and personal
estate; the defendant entered into the receipt of the renta of the 
real estate and got in the personal estate ; he baa sold aome part
of the real eatate. 
The plaintifff claims1. To have the real and personal estate of .A..B. administered 
In the High Court of Justice. 
1. Defence.-A.B.', will contained a charge of debts; he died
insolvent ; be waR entitled at his death to some real eetate which 
the defendant sold, and which produced the net sum of 43001., and
the testator bad some personal estate which the defendant got in
and which produced the net sum of 12041. The defendant applied
the whole of the said sums and the sum of 841. which the defen
dant reoeived from rent.ti of the real estate in the payment of the
funeral and testamentary expenses and some of the debts of the
testator. The defendant made up his accounts and sent a copy
thereof to the plaintifff on the 10th of January1 18i5, and offered 
the plaintifff free &eoebll to the vouchers to venf'l_ such seoouate,
Lut he declined to avail himself of the defendants offer. The de.
fendant submits that the plaintifff ought to pay the oostB of this 
action. 
in this court, and for that purpose to have all proper di
rections given and aooounts taken. 
2. Buch further or other relief as the nature of the cue ma7
require. 
Cb&noery Division.
[~V~ oj Judge.] 
In the matter of the estate of A.B., deceued.
Between E.1.-'., plaintifff, and G.H., defendant. 
[1876. B. No. 284.J
Ju the High Court of Justice. 
Chancery Division.
[Name qf Judge.] 
&atement of Defence. 
In the matter of the estate of A. B., deceased.
&tween E.F., plaiut.iff, and G.ll., defendant., 
[1876. B. No. 234.J 
In the High Court of Justice.
Cbanoery Di vision. 
Rq,ly. 
Reply.-Tbe plaintifff joins iaaue with the defendant upon bis
defense. 
No.~ 
[1876. B. No. 285.] 
[NanM! of Judge.]
In the matter of the estate of W.H., deoeaaed. 
Writ issued 2tnd December, 1876.
Between .A.B. and C., bia wife, plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., de
fendant&
Staleraettt of Claim. 
1. Claim.-W. H., of H., in the county of L., duly made bis last
will, dated the 19th day of March, 1861, whereby he appointed the
defendants the executors thereof, and bequeathed to them all hie
personal estate in t.rost, to call in, sell, and convert the same into
money, and tbereout to pay bis debts and funeral and testamentary
expenses, and to divide the ultimate surplus into three 11har('8 and
to pay one of such three shares to each of his two children, T. H.,
and E., the wife of E.W., and to stand possessed of the remaining 
third share upon trust for the children of the testator'& eon J. H.
in equal shares, to be divided among them when the youngest of
such children should attain the age of 21 years. And the teetator
devised bis real estates to the defendants upon trust until the
youngest child of tho said J. H. ebould attain the age of 21 years, 
to pay one third part of the rents thereof to the said T. H., and
one other third part thereof to the said E.W., and to accumulate
the remaining third part by way of compound interest, and so
soon as the youngest child of the said J. H. should attain the age 
of 21 years, to sell the said real estates, and out of the proceeds of
such sale to pay the sum of 10001. to the said T. H., ind to invest
one moiety of the residue in manner therein mentioned, and stand
poeaeesed thereof in trust kl pay the income thereof to the said E.,
the wife of the said E.W., during her life for her separate use, and
after her death for her children, the interests of such children
being contingent on their attaining the age of 21 years, and to 
divide the other moiety of such proceeds of sale and the accumulauona of the third share of rents thereinbefore directed to be
accumulated among such of the children of the said J. H. a.a 
should be then living, and the iseue of such of them u should be
then dead, in equal shares per ~tirpes. 
2. The testator died on the 25th day of April, 1873, and bis said
will wae proved by the defendants in the month of Juno, 1878. 
8. The teetator died po88868ed of one third share in a leasehold
oolliery called the Paradise Colliery, and in tho engines, machinery,
atock in trade, book debts, and efreots belonging thereto. He wu
al8o entiUed to real estate, and other personal estate. 
"- The testator left T. H. and E., the wife of E.W., him sur
viving. J. H. had died in the te8tator's lifetime, leaving four
children, and no more. The f.l&intUf, C./J., is the youngetit of the 
children of J. H., and attained the age of 21 yearon the lit of 
June, 1871. Thit other three children of J. H. died without ls&ue
in the lifetime of the testator. 
6. E. W. has several children, but no child baa attained the ap 
of 21 iears. 
6. 'I. H. ia the testator's heir-at-law. 
7. The defeodanta bne not called in, sold, and converted into 
money the whole of the teetator's persona! est.a~ but ban 
allowed a considerable part thereof to remain outatanding; and in
particular the defeodani.e have not caHed iu, sold, or eonverted 
into mooey the testator'a interest in the said colliery, but have,
from the death of the testator to :tbe present time, continued to 
work the same in partnership with the other persona interested
therein. The estate of the t.e11tator bas sustained considerable lOM
by reason of such interest not having been called in, sold, or converted into money. 
8. 'l'he defendants did not upon the death of the testator sell the 
teetator's furniture, plate, linen, and china, but allowed the tes
tator's widow to poesess herself of a great part thereof, wiiliout
accounting for the same, and the same has thereby been lost to
the teetator's estate. 
D. The defendants have not invested the share of the testator's
residuary personal estate given by his will to the children of the
testator's eon J. H., and have not accumulated one third of the
reota and proflts of his real ff!tate as directed by the said will,
but. have mixed the same share and rents with their own monies.,
and employed them io business on their own account. 
10. 1.'he defendants have sold part of the real estates of the testator, but a considerable part thereof remains unsold. 
11. A receiver ought to be appointed of tbe outstanding pel'80nal
est.ate of the testator, and the ~nte and profits of his real estate 
remaining unsold.
The plaintifffs claim- 
1. That the estate of the said testator may be administered,
aod the trusts of his will carried into e:r.eoution under 
the direction of the court.
2. That it may be declared that the defendants, by carr7ing 
on the business of the said colliery instead of reahaing
t.he same, have committed a breach of trust, and that the
parties interested in the testator's eetate are enii\led to
the value of tho testator's interest in the said partnership
property as it stood at tho testator's death, with interest
thereon, or at their election to the profita which have been
made by the defendants in respect thereof since the &ee
tator's death, whichever shall be found most for their
benefit. 
8. That an account may be taken of the Interest of the tee
iator in the said colliery, and in the machinery, book
debts, stock, and effects belonging thereto, according to 
the value thereof at the testator's death, and an a.cconnt
of all sums of money received by or by the order, or for
the use of tho defendants, or either of them, on aocount
of the testator's intereat in the said oolliery, and t.h11t the
defendants may be ordered to make good IO the estate of 
the to.tat.or the lou arising from their not having
realised the intereet of the testator in the Aid colliery
wit.bin a reuonable time after hie dl'Ce&86. 
4.. That an account. may be taken of all pther peraonal eat.ate 
of the teetator oome to the bands of the defendants, or
either of them, or to the bands of .ani other person by
their or either of their order, or for their or either of their 
ue, or which, but for their willful neglect or default, might
have been 10 received; and an account of the rents and
profit.a of the testat.or"s real estate, and the monies arising
from the sale thereof, possessed or received by or by the
order, or for the nae of the defendant.I, or either or them. 
6. That the real estate or the testator remaining unsold may
be sold under the direction of the court. 
6, That the defendants may be decreed, at the election of the
pniea interested in the testator's estate, either to pay 
mterost at the rate of bl, per cent, per annum upon
anch monies belonging to the estate of the testator as 
they have improperly mixed with their own monies and
employed in business on their own account, and that 
half-yearly rests may be made in taking such account
as respects all monies which by the said will were directed to be accumulated, or to account for all profits by 
the employment in their business of the said trust money.
7. That a receiver may be appointed of the outstanding per
sonal estate of the testator, and to receive the rents and
profits of his reAI estate remaining unsold. 
8. Such further or other relief as the nature of the case may 
require. 
In the High Court of J nstice,
Chancery Division. 
[Name of Judge:J 
(1876. B. 286.] 
Between A.IJ. and (;. bis wile, plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.B.,
Defendants. 
Statement of .Defence of the abo~-~ Ihfendanu.
1. De/~-Bhortly after the decease of the testator, the defend
ant.,, &8 his executors, poeseesed themselves of and converted into
money the teetator" 1 personal estate, except bis share in the colliery 
mentioned in the plaintifffs' statement of claim. The monies so
arising were applied in payment of part of the testator's debts and
funeral and testamentary expenses, but such monies were not 
sufficient for the payment thereof in full.
2. The Paradise colliery was, at the testator's decease, worked 
by him in partnership with J. Y. and W. Y. and T. Y., both since
deceased, No written articles of partnership had been entered into,
and for many years the testator bad not. taken any part in the
management of the said colliery, but it was managed exclusively
by the other partners, and the defendants did not know with certaint:y_to what share therein the testator was entitled. 
8. Upon the death of the testator, the defendants endeavoured to
ucertain the value of the testator's 1bare in the colliery, but the 
other partners refofled to give them any lnforrnadoL The de
feod&ots thereupon h&d tLe books of the colliery enmined by a
competent accouutant, but they bad been so oareleuly kept thal
it was impossible to obtain from them any &ecurate informa\ion
respecting the state of the concern ; it wu, however, ucert&ined
that a considerable sum waa due to the testator's estate. 
4. Between the death of the testator and the beginning of the
year 1874 the defeudants made frequent applications to J. Y., W.Y.,
and 'I', Y. for a settlement of the accounts of the colliery. Such
appliclltions haviog proved fruitles,i, the defend&nle, in January, 
18i4, filed their bill of complaint in the Court of Chancery againat
J, Y., W. Y., and T.Y., praying for an account of the partnership 
dealings between the testator and the defendant.a thereto, and that
the partnership might be wound up uoder the direction of the 
Court.
5. The said T. Y. died in the year 1874, and the suit was revived 
against J .. P. and 1'. S., his executors. The suit is still pending.
6. AB to the Paradise colliery, the defendant.a have acted to the 
best of th,ir judgment for the benefit of the test&tor's estate, and
they deny being under any liability in respect of the said r.olliery
not having been realised. TbPy sul,mit to act under the direction 
of tho court as to the further prosecution of the said suit and
generally as to the realisation of the testator's iotereel in the said 
colliery.
7. With respect to the statement.a in the eigh\b paragraph of the 
statement of claim. the defend&nt.a say, that upon the aeat.b of the
teatator, they sold the whole of his furuiture, linen, and china, and 
also all bis plate, except a few silver teaspoons of very small value,
which were taken possession of bf his widow, and they applied
the proceeds of such sale as pa.rt o the testator's penonal estate,
and they deny being under any liability in respect. of such furniture,
linen, china, and plate. 
8. With respect to the statements in paragraph seven of the
statement of claim, the defendants say that all monies received by
them, or either of them, on account of the testator's estate, were 
paid by them to their executorship account at the bank of Messrs.
H. and Oo., and until the sale of the testator's real estate took
place as hereinafter mentioned, the balance to their credit was
never greater than was neceesary for the administration of the
trusts of the testator'a will, and they thereforee were unable to make
any such investment or accumulation a.a directed by the testator's
will, No monies belonging to tho testator's estate have ever been
mixed with the monies of the defendants, or either of them, nor
has any money of the testator's been employed in business since
the testator's decease, except that his share in the said colliery, for
the reason hereinbefore appearing, hl\8 not been got in. 
9. In 1871, after the plaintifff C.B. had attained her age of 21
years the defendants sold the real estate of the testator for sums
amounting to 15,0801., and no part thereof remains unsold. They 
received the purchase monies in December, 1874, and on the
day of , 18i5, they paid such proceeds into court to the
credit of this action with the exception of 6001. :r:etained on account
of costs incurred and to be incurred by them. 
In the High Court of Juetioe, (1876. B .. No. 235.] 
Chanoery Divisiou, 
f NarM of Judge.] 
Between A..B. and C. hi8 wife, plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H.
defendan&a. 
&ply.
The plain~iff joins issue with the defendant.a upon their defense, 
No. 5. 
In the High Court of Jastief'. 187 B. No.
Division. 
Writ issued 3rd Au$'ost, 1875.
Between A.B. and Company, plaintifffs, and E.F. and Company, 
defendao&a.
&aumffll of Olaina. 
1. Claim.-The plaintifffs are manufactures of artificial manures,
carrying on business at in the county of 
2. The defendants are commiselon agents, carrying on buaineu
in London. 
8. In the early part of the year , the plaintifffs commenced,
and down to tho , 187 , continued to consign to
the defendants, as their agents, large quantities of their manures 
for sale, and the defendants sold the same, and received the price
thereof and accounted to the plaintifffs therefore. 
4. No express agreement has ever been entered into between the
plaintifffs and the defendant.a with respect to the terms of the
defendants employment as a~Pnts. The defendants have always
charged the plaiotiffe a commiesiou at per cent, on all sales
effected by them, which is the rate of commission ordinarily charged
by del credue agents in the said trade. And the defendants, in
fact, always accounted to the pla.iDtiffe for the price, whether they 
received the same from the purchasers or not, 
o. The plaintifffs contend that the defendants are liable to them
as del crf!JIUN ag1nta, but if not 80 liable are under the circumstanc
hereinafter mentioned liable as ordinary agenta.
6. On the , the plaintifffs consigned to the defendants 
for sale a large quantity of goods, including tons of 7. On or about the , the defendants sold 
tons of pa.rt of such goods to one G.H. for l.,
at three months crediL and delivered the same to him. 
8. G.H. was not, at that time, in good credit and was in insolvent
circumstances, and the defendant.a might, by ordinary care and 
diligence. ha.ve a.scertained the fact.
9. G.B. did not pay for the said ~ but before the expira
tion of the said three months for which credit had been given was
adjudicated a b&nkrupt, and the plaintifffs have never received the 
said sum of l. or any part thereof. The plaintifffs claim:- 
1. Damage& to the amount of L 
2. Such further or other relief u the nature of the cue may 
reqllire. 
The plalntUl1 propoae that this action 1hoald be tried In the
oounty of 
In the High Court of J ustioe.
Division. 
&atmtenl of Dtjenc& 
1. Def~.-The bill of exchange mentioned in the statement of 
claim was drawn and accepted under the circuD1Btanoee hereinafter stated, and except as hereinafter mentioned there never wu
any consideration fer the acceptance or payment thereof by the 
defendant& 
[Title &1 in claim, omlUing date of ialue of writ.]
Statement oj De/en& 
1. Dtiffflee.-The defendants deny that the said commission of 
per cent. mentioned in paragraph 4 of the claim is the rate
of commisaion ordinarily charged by dtl credet-e ~enta in the wd
trada, and say that the sarue is the ordinary c.omml88ion for agents 
other than tkl credert! agenta, and the7 deny that they ever
accounted to the plaintifffs for the price o any goods, except after 
they had received the same from the purchasen. 
2. The defendants deny that they were ever liable to the
plaintifffs as dtl CN!ffl agenu. 
8. With respect. to the eighth paragraph of the plaintifffa' statement of claim, the defendants say that at the time of the laid sale
to the said G.H., the said G.R. was a person in ~ood credit. If it
be true that the said G.H. was then iu insolvent circumstanc ee 
(which the defendant.II do not admit), the defendanta did not and
had no reuon to suspect the same, and could not by ordinary care 
or diligence have ascertained the fact.
[Title as in defense.] 
&ply.
&plg.-The plaintifffs join issue upon the defendants' 1t&temem 
of defense. 
Writ issued 8rd August, 1876. 
Between ~.B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendantl.
Statefflffll of Clai-. 
1. Claim.-Messrs. M.N. If Co. on the day of ,
drew a bill of exchange upon the defendants for L 
payable to the order of the said Mcs81'8 . .M.N. 4' Co. three montha
aft.er date, and the defeodanta accepted the same. 
2. Messl"l1. M.N. 4' Co. indorsed the bill to the plainUlf1. 
8. The bill became due on the , and the
defendant baa not paid it. 
The plaintifffs claim:- 
No. 6.
BiUof~ 
[Title.] 
177. B. No. 
2. Shortl1 before the acceptance of the said bill it waa a,treed
between tbe &&id M.8881'8. M.N. ,t Co., the drawers thereof, and the
defendant., that tbe aid Meeera. JI.N. if Co. should Bell and
deliver to the defendants free on board ahip at the pon of 
UOO tons of coala during the moot.h of
, and that the defendant.a should pay for the same 
by accepting the said Messrs. M.N. if Co.'drafl for t; 
at au moo tbs.
8. The Ila.id Heesrs. .M.N. cf Co. accordingly drew upon the de
fendant.a, and t.be defendants aooepted the bill of exchange now
sued upon. 
4. The defendants did all things which were necessary to entitle
them to delivery by the said Keeers. M .N. cf Co. of the said 1200
tons of coals under their said contrsct, and the time for delivery 
bu long since elapsed ; but the said M88811t, ,.11.N. if Oo, never
delivered the same, or any part thereof, but have always refueed 
to do so, whereby the consideration for the defendant's &OCt"plance
has wholly failed. 
6. 1.'he plaintifffs first received the &&id bill, and it wu first
indorsed to them after it was overdue. 
6. The plaint.i.tl's never gave any value or oonsideration for the
aid bill 
7. The plaintifffs took the said bill with notice of the facts stated 
in the aecond, third, and fourth pa.r~phs theceof.
(Title.J 
&plg.
1. Reolg.-The plaintifff joins issue upon the defendants state
ment of defense.
2. The plaintifff gave vaJue and consideration for the said bill in 
manner following, that is to BAY, on the day of
187 , the said llessrs. JI.N. if Co. were indebted to the plaintifff
in about Z., the balance of an scoount for goods sold from
time to time by him to them. On that day they ordered of t.he 
plaintifff further goods to the value of about l., which
last-mentioned goods have since been delivered by him to them. 
And at the time of the order for such Iset-meutloued goods it wu 
agreed between Messrs. M.N. 4' Co. and the plaintifff, and the order
was received upon the terms, that they should indorse and hand
over to him the bill of exchange sued upon, together with various
other securities on account of the said previous balance, and the 
price of the goods so ordered on that day. 'l'he said securitiee,
mcludiog tbe bill sued upon, were thereupon on the same day 
indorsed and handed over to the plaintifff. 
187 B. No.
Bill of &cAange Giid C~ion. 
In die High Court of Justice.
Division. 
No. 7. 
Writ issued 3rd August, 1876.
Between .t.B. and C.D., plainWfa, and E.F. and O.B. defendant.. 
&alentfflt o t Claim.
1. Claim.-The plaintifffs are merchant.a, fact.on, and 
commission agents, carrying on business In Lonaon.
2. The defendants are merchants and commiaion agent.a. carry
ing on business at Hong Kong.
8. For several years prior to the 1875, the plain. 
tiffs had been in the habit of consigning goods to the defendants
for sale, as their agents, and the defendants had been in the habit 
of consigning goods to the plaintifffs for sale, a.a their agents ; and
each party al ways received the price of the goods sold by him for
the other ; and a balance was from time to time etrack bet.ween 
the parties, aud paid.
On the of , the monies eo receiffd 
by the defendants for the plaintifff's, and remaining in their namee,
largely exceeded the monies received by the plaintifffs for the de
fendants, and a balance of L ,raa aooordingly due to
the pl1tintiffs from tho defendants. 
4. On or about the 1875, the plaintifffs sent
to the defendants a statement. of the accounts between them, showing tho said sum as the balance due to the plaintifffs from the de
fendants; and the defendants agreed to the said statement. of
accounts as correct, and to the said sum of L as the
balance due by them to the plaintifffs, and a.greed to pay interest 
on such balance if timo wero given to them.
5. The defendants requested the P,laintiffs to give them three 
months tiJlle for payment of the said sum of l., and the
plaintifffs sgreed to do so upon the defendants accepting the bil1a
of exchange hereinafter mentioned. 
6. The plaintifffs thereupon on the
drew t.wo bills of exchange upon the defendants, one for
l., and the others for I., both payable to the order of 
the plaintifffs three months after date, and the defendants socepted the bills. 
The said hills beca.rne due on tho 187 , and the
defendants havo not paid the bills, or either of them, nor the laid
sum of l. 
The plaintifffs claim :I. and interest to the date of judgment. 
The plaintifffs propose that the action should be tried fn London. 
ID the High Oourt of Justice.
Division. 
187. B. No.
No. 8. 
Writ issued [ ].
[THE "IDA."J(1) 
Between .A..B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendant& 
8tatffllfflt of Cfai&
a.i&-[1. The 
Ida" is a veesel of which no owner or part
owner was, at the time of the hastitation of Uiis cauee, domiciled in 
II 
England or Walee.] (I)
2. lo the month of February, 1878, Me1181'8. L. and Company, of 
Alexandria, caused to be shipped 6,110 ardcba of cotton seed on
board the said vessel, then lying in Port Said (Egypt), and the 
then master of the vessel received the same, to bo carried from
Port Said to Hull, upon the terms of three bills of lading, signed by
the muter, and delivered to Messrs. L. and Company. 
8. The three bills of lading, being in form exactly similar to one
another, were and aro1 so far as is material to the present case, in 
the words, letters, ana figures following, that. is to Sl&Y :" Shipped in good order and well conditioned by L. & Co. Alex
andria (Egypt) in and upon the good ship called the 'Ida,'
whoreol is master for the present voyage Ambrozio Uhiapella,
and now riding at anchor iJa the port of Port Said (Egypt)
and bound for Hull, six thousand one hundred and ten 
ardebs cotton seed being marked and numbered as in the
margin, and are to be delivered in the like good order and
well-conditioned at the a.foreeaid Port of Hull (the act of
God, the Queen's enemies, fire and all and every other
daogers and accidents of the seas, rivers, and navig11tioo of 
whatever nature and kind soever, save risk of boats so far as
ships are liable thereto excepted), unto order or to assigns
paying freight for the said goods at the rate of (19,.) say 
nineteen shillings sterling in full per ton of 20 owl delivered
with lOl. gratuity. Other conditions &1!1 per charter-party,
dated London, 4th October, 1872, with primage and averago
accustomed, In witness whereof the master or purser of tho
said ship hath affirmed to three bills of lading all of this
tenor and date, the one of which three bills being accomplished the other two to stand void. Dated in Port Said
{Egypt) 6th February, 1873. 100 dunnage mats. Fifteen
working days romain for discharging." 
4, The persons constituting the firm of Messrs. L. and Company
are identica.l with the members of the plaintifffs' firm. 
6. The vessel sailed on her voyage to Hull, and duly arrived
there on or about the 7th of May, 1873. 
6. The cotton seed WM delivered to the plaintifffs but not in as
good order and condition as it was in when shipped at Port Said;
but was delivered to the plaintifffs greatly damaged. 
7, The deterioration of the cotton seed Wll.8 not ocoa.sioned by 
any of the perils or causes in the bills of lading excepted.
8. By reason of the premises tho plaintifffs lost a ~reat part of 
the value of the said cotton seed, and were rut to great expense
in and about keeping, warehousing, and improving the con. 
dition of the said cotton seed, aud in and about having the same
surveyed. 
The plaintifffs claim the following relief :1. t. for damages, [ (') and the condemna- 
tion of the said vet111el and the defendant. aod bis bail in tbe ame]: 
2. Such further relief u the nature of Ula cue requirel. 
.De/MOe.-Bt&&ement of:- 
In the High Court of Justice,
Admiralty Division. 
[Title.] 
De/mce. 
1. They deny the truth of the allegations contained in the aixth, 
eeventb and eighth articles of the said petition.
2. The deterioration, if any, to the cotton seed was oC'C&Sioned 
by the ch.&raoter and quality of the cot.ton seed when shipped on
board the" Ida," and bf the inherent. qualities of the ootton aeed, 
and by llhipping water 1D a aevere storm which occurred on the
day of in latitude during t.he voyage, 
or by some or one of auoh e&UleB. 
[Title.]
Reply. 
&ply.-The plaintiffti join iuue upon the statement of defense. 
No.9.
BoU<>mry. 
Writ ieaued [
THE "ONWARD." 
187 B. No. 
]. 
Between A.B. and C.D, plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendant,. 
8tal,~n1, of Claim. 
1. Claim.-Tbe "Onward," a ship of 933 tons register, or thereabouts, belonging to the United States of America, whilst on a
voyage from lloulmein to Queenstown or Falmouth, for orders, and
from thence to a port of discharge in the U uited Kingdom or on the
Oontinent, between Bordeaux and Hamburg, both ports inclusive, 
laden with a cargo of teak timber, was compelled to put into Port
Louis, in the island of Mauritius, in order to repair and reftL 
2. The master of the "On ward," being without funds or credit
at Port Louis, and being unable to pay the expense of the said
repairs, and the necesaary disbursements of the said ship at Port
Lowa, so as to enable the said ship to resume and prosecute her
voyage, and after having communicated with bis owners and with 
the owners and 09nsignees of the cargo was compelled t.o rMOrt to 
a loan of 24,869 dollars on bottomry of the said ship, ller cargo and
freight, for the purpose of enabling him to pay the said exrn&ell 
and disbursements, which sum Messrs. H. and Com1>any o Port
Louis, at the request of the master by public advertisement, 
advanced t.o the sald master at o.nd after the rate of 128 dollars for 
every 100 dollars &dvanoed, and acoordiogly the said muter, by &
bond of boUODl'7., d&t.ed the 18th of October, 1870, by him duly 
exeout.ed in con111deration of the eom of 2,369 dollars, Mauritius
ourreuc,y, paid to him by the said .M.easra. H. and Company, bound 
billdelf and the &aid ship and her cargo, namely, abo11t 9o tone of
teak umber, and her freight, to pay unto Meesre. H. and Company,
their &88igns, or order or indorsees, the Mid sum of 2i,SG9 dollars
with t.be aforesaid mariume premium thereon, within twenty d11ya
next after the arrival of the" Onward" at. her port of discharge 
from the id ln'6nded voyage, th11 8&id payment to be made both
iu capital and int.el'88t in British sterling money, at and after the 
rate of h for every dollar, with a condition, that in C&8e the said
ship and cargo ahould be lost, d11ring her voyage from Port Louis
&o Queell8towa or Falmouth, for orders, and thence to her port of
discharge in the United Kingdom or on the Continent between
Bordeaux and Hamburg, both port.a inclHive, then, that the said 
eum of 24,869 dollar11, and mari\ime premium i.aereon, abould not.
be recoverable. 
3. The "Onward" subeequently proceeded on her voyage. and
OD the 7th of February, 18,f, attived with her cargo OD board at
the port of Liverpool, whioh was her port of discharge. 
4. The bond was duly indorsed and &88igned to the plaintifffs.
6. The ship has been sold by order of the court, and the pro
ceed, of the sale thereof have been brought. into court, and the
freight has also been paid into court. 
6. The said sum of 2-i,369 dollara, with the maritime premium
thereon, still remain due to the plaintifffs. By a decree made on
the 10th of May, 1871, the court pronounced for the validity of the 
bond. 80 far as regarded the ship and freight, and ooodemned the
proceeds of the ship and freight in the amount due on the bond.
The principal and premium still remain owing to the plaintifff11, and
the proceeds of the said ship aud her freight available for payment
thereof are insufficient for such pe.ymont. 
The plaintifffs claim:-- 
1. That the Court pronounce for the validity of the bond so
far as regsrde the cargo : 
2. That the Court condemn the defendants and their bail in so
much of the amount due to the plaintiffat on the bond, for
principal, maritime premium, and for interest from the 
t.ime when such principal and premium ought to have
been paid. as the proceeds of the ship and freight avail,,ble
for payment of the bond shall be insufficient to aatisfy, 
and in oosts : 
8. Boch fllrthur relief as the nat11re of the case requiree, 
[Title.] 
Defence; 
De/enc&-Tbe defendants eay that t.be- 
1. Several a.verments in the second article of the st&temeDt con
tained are ret1pectively untrue, except the avArmeot that tbe
bottomry bond therein mentioned was given and executed. 
8. The "Onward " proceeded on the voyage in the first para
graph of the claim mentiou.ed, under a chart.er-part.7 ma'.le between 
the defendants and the owners of the veasel, who resided at New
York. And the cargo in the a&id paragraph mentioned belonged
to the defendants, and wu shipped at Moulmein, by MesaieUl'8. 
T., F ;z. and Company, of Moulmein, conaigned to the defendant&
4. when the "On ward " put into Port Louis, the muter plaoed 
his ship in the hands of Meesieurs B. and Company, the persons In
the second paragrapb of the claim mentioned, and the repairs and
disbursements in the said second article mentioned were made,
directed, and expended under the orders, management, and on the
credit...of said Messieurs H. and Company, who at the out.eet con
templated the necesaity of securing tbemeelves by the hypothecation
of the ship, freight, and cargo. 
6. The master of the'' Onward" and Meesieurs H. and Company did not communicate to the said shippers of the cargo, or to 
the defendants who carried on business at Glasgow, as the muter
knew the intention of hypotheeating the ship, freight, and cargo, 
or the circumstances which might render such hypothecation
advisable or necessary, but on the contrary, wiLhout reasonable 
cause or excuse, abstained from so doing, although the comparafively small value of the ship and freight to be earned, rendered it
tJJ the more important that such communication should have been
made. 
6. A rcMonable and proper time W&8 not allowed to elapse
between the advertisements for the bottomry loan, and the 
acceptance of Messieurs H. and Company's offer to make such loan.
[Title.] 
Reply.
1 .Ret,ly.-The plaintifffs say that the defendants, since the 31st 
day of I'.>ecember, 1868, have been the only persons forming the firm
of T., F., and Oo., of Moulmein, mentioned in the third paragraph 
of the defense.
2, After the master of the "Onward " put into Port Louis ae 
aforesaid, he employed Messieurs B. and Company, in the claim
mentioned, RS his agents, and by bis directions they by letter com
municated to the defendants' firms at Moulmei:i and Glasgow the
circumstances of the ship's distress, and the estimated amount of 
her repairs.
8. 'I'he said Messieurs H. and Company shortly after the said 
ship was put. into their hands at Port Louis, offered the said master,
in case be should require them to do so, to make the necessary
advances for the ship's repairs, and to take his draft at 90 days 
sight on Messrs. B. Brothers, of London, at the rate of 6 per cenL
discount for the amount of the advances, together with a bottomry
bond on ship, cargo, and freight as collateral security, the bond to 
be void should the draft be accepted. The said master, and tlie
Hid Me&sieurs. H. and Oompany, by letter, communicated to the
owners of the "Onward" the ciroumstances of the a&id ship'distrese, and the aforesaid offer of the said Messrs. H. and Com
pany, and the said master by his letterreqnested the said owners
to give him their directions on the subject. The 1&id ownens
shortly after receiving such letters, by letter communicated with 
the defendants at Glasgow, and forwarded to them copiea of the 
11.ld lastly-mentioned letter. of the aaid muter, and of the said 
lleeal"B. B. and Co.
4. The defendanta' hoWIM at Koulmefn and Glasgow respectively 
reoeived the letters referred to in the second paragraph of this reply
In time to have communicated with the 11aid muter at Port Louis 
before the giving of the said bottomrl bond. 
o. The defendants received the eai copies of letters referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this reply, in time for them to have communicated thereon with the Mid muter at Port Louis before the giving
of the 11aid bond. 
6. The defendants did not at any time answer the eaid communicationa of the said Messrs. H. and Company, or in any way
communicate or attempt to communicate with the said master, or
to direct him not to give, or to prevent him from giving the said
bott.omry bond on the said cargo. 
7. The eaid bond was dul7 advertised for sale, and was 1ubeequently, and after a proper interval had elapsed, sold by )'Uction in
the usual way. There were several bidders at the sale, and the
aaid MP88rs. H. and Company were the lowest bidders in premium, 
and the said bond was knocked down to them. The said bond wu
not advertised for until the BAid ship was ready for sea, and up to 
that time the master of the said ship bad expected to besr from her
owners, and had hoped to be put iu funds, and had not finally 
determined to resort to bottomry of the said ship, or her cargo or
freighL 
8. Save as herein appe11rs the plaintifffs deny the truth of the
several allegations con mined in the said answer, 
(NOT&-Tbe f~ta stated in this reply should. in general, be
introduced by amendment into the statement of claim.] 
In the High Court of Justice,
Dhision. 
Writ issued 8rd August, 1876.
Between A.B. a.na C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.D., defendants. 
StaJement of Claim. 
1. Claim.-The plaintifffs were, on the 1st August, 1874, the
owners of the steamship 
British Queen."
2. On the lat August, 1874, the ship being then in Calcutta, a 
O 
[Title.]
&j<>indu. 
&joiflde.-The defendants join issue upon the plaintifffs' reply. 
N0; 10. 
Charter-Party. 
187 B. No. 
charter-party Wl\8 there entered into between John Smith, the
muter, on behalf of bimseH and t.he owners of the said ship, of the
one part, and the defendants of the other part. 
8. By the 11aid charter-party it was agreed, amongst other
tbinge, that the defendants should be entitled to the whole carry
ing power of the Mid samahip for the period of four montba eer- 
taln, commencing from the aid let A ugaet, 187 -i, upon a voyage or
voyages between Calcutta and Mauritius and back; that the de
fendants should pay for such ueo of tbe said steamship to the
plaintifffs' agents at Oalcatta, monthly, the sum of 1000/, ; tbat the
charter should terminate at Calcutta; and that if at the e:1:pira\ioof the said period of four months the eafd ateamsbip should be upoia
a voyage, then the defendants should pay pro NII.a for the hire of 
the ship up to her arri'f'al at Calcutta,and thecompletediscbarge ol
her cargo there. 
4. The "British Queen" made several voyages in pursuaece of
the said charter-party, and the first three monthly sums of lOOOl. 
each were duly paid. 
o. The period of four months expired on the 1st December,
1874, aud at that time the steamship waa on a voyt\it9 from 
Mauritius to Valcutta. She arrived at Oalcutta on the 18th Deeem
ber1 and the discharge of her cargo there was completed on the
16th December, 187'. 
6. The plaintifffs' agents at Calcutta called upon the defendant.a
to pay to them the fourth monthly sum of 10001., and a sum of l>OOl. 
for the hire of the steamship from the let to the 16th December,
1874, but the defendants have not paid any part of the said auma. 
The plaintifffs claimThe sum of 1600l., and interest upon lOOOl., part thereof, from 
the let December, 1874, until judgment.
The plaintifffs propose that this action should be t.ried in London, 
[Title.] 8taumffll of Dtfe11Ct,. 
1. De/ence.-By the charter-party sued upon it waa expressly
provided that if any accident should happen to, or any repaira 
should become necesaary to the engines or boilers of the said steamship, the time occupied in repairs should be deducted from the
period of the said charter, and a proportionate reduction in the 
_charter money should be made.
2. On the repairs became necessary to thP engines 
and boilers of the steamship, and ten days were occupied in effecting BUCb rPpairs. 
8. On the an accident happened to the enginee of
t.he steamship at. Mauritius, and two days were occupied in effecting
the repairs necossary in consequence thereof. 
4. The defendanta are thereforee ent.itled to a reduction in the
charter mone1 of 400/. 
COtlflUr-claim.-By way of aet-off and counterclaim the
aefendanta claim as follows:- 
6. By the charter-party it was expressly provided that t.he
charterers should furnish funds for tho steamship's nece88&'1 disbursements, except in the port. of Calcutta, witbont aoy oomm1111fon 
or interest on any sum eo advanced. 
6. The defendants paid for the neoeseary disbursements of the
ship fn the port of Mauritius between the and the 
187', sums amounting in all to 625l. U,. 6d.
7. The charter-party also contained an express w11rn11t.y that 
the ateamabp wu at the date thereof capable of &teaming nine lmot. 
an hour on a oon1umption of 30 toDB of coal a day, and it wu further proYided by the eharter party that the charteren should proTide coal for the oae of the said steamship. 
8. 'l'be ete&msbip wu at the d11te of the charter-party only
capable of steaming 1688 than eight knot.a to an hour, and that only 
on a consumption of tnore than 35 tons of coal a day.
9. Io eonsequenoe of the mattens mentioned ia the lut paragraph 
the steamship finally arrived at Calcutta. at leut 15 days later, an~
Nmained under charter at least 15 d11r9 longer than she woald 
otberwiee have done. She was also dunng the whole period of the
aid charter at &e1\ for a much larger number of days than she
would otherwise ha.Ye been, and consumed a much larger quantity
of coal on each of such days than she would otherwise have done, 
whereby the defendants were obliged to provide for the uao of the
ate&mship much larger quantities of coal than they would otberlrile 
have been.
The defendants claim- 
L dama~es in respect of the matteni staled ha tbia aetotJ and counterclaim. 
[Title.] 
Repl9.
L &pl9.-Tbe plaintifff joins issue upon the second, third, and 
fourth paragraphs of the defendant's statement of defense.
2. With respect to the alleged set-off stated in paragraph 6 the 
plaintifff does not admit the correctness of the amount therein
stated. And all sums advanced by them for diabursements were
paid or allowed to thom by the plaintifffs by deducting tho amount
thereof from the third monthly sum of 1000~ paid (11ubjoct to such
deduction) to the plaintifff's agents at OalcuUa by the defendant on
or about the 12th November, 1874. 
3. With respect to the alleged breach of warranty and the
alleged damages therefrom stated in the 7th, 8th, and 9th para. 
graphs, the plaintifffs say that the steamship was at the date of the
charter-party capable of steaming nine knots an hour on a con
sumption of 30 tons of coal a day. If the steamship did not, during
the said charter, steam more than eight knots an hour, and that on
a consumption of more than 35 tons a day, as alle1red (which the 
plaintifffs do not admit), it was in consequence of tbe bad and unfit
quality of the coals provided by the defendant. for the ship'use. 
[Title.] 
Joinder of luve. 
&joi,ider.-The defendants join issue upon the plamtiff'1 reply
to their set-off and counterclaim. 
No. 11.
Colliaion. 
In the High Court of Joatioe, 187 B. No.
Admiralty Division, 
Writ issued [ ]
THE " AMERICAN" 
Between A.B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.B., defendant.. 
1. Clai& -Sbortl1 before 8 a.m. on the 9th of December, 1874,
the brigantine "KAtfeb" of 194 tons register, of which the plaintifffs 
were owners, manned y a crew of eight bands all told, whilst on a
voy':fe from Dahlin to SL John's, Newfoundland, in ballast, waa 
in latitude about 46N., and longitude 4042' W., by Account.
2. The wind at such time was about W. by S .a strong breese, 
and the weather was clear, and the "Katie" was under doublereefed mainsail, reefed ma1nstaysail, middle stayimil, lower topsail. 
reefed fore etaysail, and jib, sailing full and hy on the port t-ck, 
heading about N. W. i N., and proceeding at the rate of about fini
knots and a half per hour. 
8. At such time a steamship under steam and sail, which proved
to be the acrew steamship "AmPrican," was seen at a distance of 
three or four miles from the "Katie," broad on her port bow, and
steering about E. or E. by 8. The master of the "Katie" not
having been able to take observations for several days, and her
chronometer having run down, and the s11id master wishing to
eJ:chaoge longitudes with the "American," caused an ensign to be
hoisted, and marked his longitude by account on a board wbirh be 
exhibited over the port side. The "Katie'' was kept full and by,
and the "American" approached rapidly, and attempted to pus 
ahead of the "Katie," aud CAUROO immediate danfer of collision,
and although thereupon the helm of the "KR tie' was put hard
a..p:>rt and her m&insbeet lot go, the "American" with her stem 
struck the "Katie" on her port side, almost amidships, cutting
her nearly in two, and the ''Katie'' sank almost immediately, her
crew being saved by the steamer. 
-i. The "American" improperly neglected to keep clear of the
"Katie." 
6. The 
American" improperly attempted to pass ahead of the
"Katie." 
II 
6. The " American " improperly neglected to ease her engines,
and improperly neglected to stop and reverse her engines in due 
time.
The plaintifff claims:- 
&at.tJml!III, o/Clai. 
1. 'fhat it may be drclared that the plaintifffs are entitled to the
damage proceeded for: 
2. That the b~il given by the defend1mt.s be condemned in such
dmagP, aud in costs: 
8. That the aceounta and vouchers relating to such damage be
referred to the Registrar assisted by merehants to report
the amount thereof : 
f. Such further and other relief as the nature of the CILSe may
require. 
[Title.] 
S~ of Defence; 
Defence.-The defendant.a say as follows:- 
1. The "American" Is a screw ateamship, of 1368 tons register
wit.b engines of 200-horso power nominal, belonging to the port of 
Liverpool, and at the time of t.be ooourrenoes hereinafter meo.Uoned 
wu manned by a crew of 40 hands all told, laden with a cargo of
general merchandise, and bound from Port-au-Prinoe in the Weet
lodies to Liverpool. 
2. About 8.5 a.m. on the 28th November, 187f, the-" Americ,an " 
was in lat.itude 46N., longitude 88~ 16' W., steering E. by 8. true
magnetic, making under ail sail and steam about 12 lcnote an hour,
the wind being about S. W. by S. true magnetic, blowing a strong
breeze and the weather hazy, when a veesel, which afterwards
proved t.o be the brigantine "Katie," was observed on the
"American's" starboard bow about four miles diatant., bearing about. S.E. by E. true magnetic, close-hauled to the
wind, and steering a course nearly parallel to that of the 
"Americau."
8. The American " kept. her course, and when the " Katie " 
was about. three miles distant her ensign was observed by those on
board the 
American" run up to the main, and she was seen to
have altered her course, and to be bearing down towards the
"American." The "American's" ensign was afterwards run up,
and her ID&8ter, supposing that the 
II 
Katiewanted to correct
her longitude, or to speak the 
II 
II 
American,'' continued on
bis course, expecting that. the " Katie," when she bad got
sufficiently cl088 to speak or show her black board over her
starboard side, would luff to the wind, and pus to windward 
of the 
American."
4. The master of the American" watched the " Katie " as she 
II 
continued to approach the "American," and when she had 
approached u near aa he deemed it prudoo t for her to oome, he
waved to her to luff, and shortly afterwards, on his observing her 
to be attempting to cro88 the bows of the" American,'' Lhe helm of
Lhe latter W.18 immediately put. to starboard, and the eoginee
stopped and reversed full speed ; but notwithstanding, the 
II 
American" with her stem came into collision with the port side 
of the "Katie/' a little forward of the main rigging.
5. The "American's" engines were then stopped, and when 
the crew of the "Katie" had got on board tho "American," the
latt-Or's engines were reversed to get. clear of the "Katie," which 
sunk under t.be" American's" bows.
-6. The 
K&Lie" improperly approached too close to the
"American." 
II 
7. Those on board the 
Katie" improperly neglected to Id, and
to pall to wind ward of the " Americnu." 
II 
8. Those oo board the ''Katie" improperly attempted to cr011 
the bows of the 
American."
9. Thoee on board the 
II 
Katie" improperly ported her helm
before the said collision. 
II 
10. Those on board tbfl "Katie" improperly neglected &o star.
board her helm before the said collision. 
[Title.] 
&ply. 
&ply.-The plaintifff11 join le.sue upon the defendants' statement
of defense. 
THE "TWO ELLENS."
Between .A.B. and C.D. plaintifffs, and E.F. defendanL 
Staltmnat of Clai,,._
1. Claim.-The said veMel was and ia a British Colonial veseeJ, 
belonging to the Port of Digby, in Nova Scotia, of which no owner
or part owner wu at the time of the commencement of this action
or is domiciled in England or Wales. 
2. At the time of the commencement of this action the said
vessel was under arrest of this court. 
3. About the month of February, 1868, the said vessel was lyin~
in the port of London, in need of repairs, and of being equipped 
and supplied with certain other necessaries,
4. By the order of Meesrs. K. L., who were duly authorized, the 
plaintifffs equipped and repaired the said vessel as sho needed. and
provided the vessel with necessaries, and there is now due to the
plaintifffs for such necessary repairing and equipping, and other
necessaries, the sum of 805L a.., together with interest thereon from
the 19th day or February, 1868. 
The plaintifffs claim:1. J udgmont for the said sum of 8051.. Sa., with such lntereat 
thereon as aforesaid until judgment: 
2, The condemnation of the ship and the defendant and his
bail therein and in the costs of this suit: 
8. Such further relief as the nature of the oaae requires.
[Title.l 
&au.nt of Defenu. 
1 . .Dt~~-By an instrument of mortgage, in the form and
recorded as prescribed by the Merchant Shipping Act, 1854, bearing
date the 9th of .If arch, 1867, and executed by C.M., blacksmith,
D.F., master mariner, and W.H. farmer, all of Weymouth, fn the 
county of Digby, in Nova Scotia, the re~stered owners of
64/64tb parts or shares in the V8880}, the said C.M., D.F., and 
W.H. mortgaged 64/6Uh parts or shRree in the Vff&el, of which
the said D.F. wu also master, t.o G.T., ol Novi11. Scotia, in eon,
sideration of the sum of 5000 dolla.rs advanced by him t.o the s&id 
owners, and for the purpose of securing the repayment by them t.o
him of the saill sum with interest thereon, 
2. By an instrument of transfer, dated the 16th of July, 1868, in 
the form prescribed by the aid Act, and exeeuted by G. T., in con.
aideration of the sum of 5000 dollars t.o G. T., paid by the defendant, 
G.T. transferred to the defendant the mort~ security.
8. Tho B&id sum of 6000 dollars, with mtereet thereon, at.ill 
remains due on the said security.
4. The vessel was not under the arrest of this conrt a\ the time 
of t.be commencement of this action. 
No. 12. 
Equi~ of 81,ip.
In the High Court of J ustioe, 
Admiralty Division.
Writ iuued [ 
).
187. B. No. 
6. The Teeeel did not need to be equipped or repaired u in the 
fourth paragraph of the plaintifffs claim mentioned, and abe did not 
at tbe &ime of tho supply of the articles referred to the said lonrlh
paragraph u " necessariee " at&ud in need of Heh articles. On 
the contrary, the eaid vcs&E,l could have gone to sea and proceeded
on and prosecuted her voy~ without Heh equipmenta, repain. 
and articles referred to as aforesaid, and auch equipments, rep&ira,
and other articles were done and effected and supplied for the 
purpose of reclaasing the said Teasel, and not for any other
purpoee and the claim of the plaintifffs la not & claim for oeoe.uriea within the meaning of the Admiralty Court Act., 1861, a. 5. 
6. The alleged neceesariee were not. supplied on the credit of the
said vessel, but upon the personal credit of J.B., who wu the
broker for tbe V88118l, and upon tbe agreement that the plllintitfs
were not to have recourse to the veeael. 
7. The defendant did not, nor did G.T., in any way order,
authorize, or become liable for, and neither of them la in any wal 
liable in respect of the said allegel supplies or any part thereo ,
and the aaid vessel was at the time of tbe commencement of this 
action and she still is of a less value than the amount which,
irrespective of the some referred to in the next article of this
answer, is due to the dofeudaot on the said mortgage security. 
8. The defendant, in order to eave the veseel from being sold by
this court at the instance of t'.ertain of her mariners having liens
on the said vessel for their wages, bu been compelled to pay the 
aaid we.gee, aod he claims, if neceesary, to be entitled to stand in
the place of such mariners, or to add the amounts eo paid by him
for wages to the amount secured by the said mortgage, and to haye 
priority in respect tb.ireof over the claim of the plain&.i.tfa.
[Title.] 
Rq,lg. 
t. &ply.-The plaintifffs admit that 84/64th shares in the Aid
11hip the T '11t'O Ellens '' were on or abou t the 9th day of March, 
1867, mortgaged by the 11aid C.M., D.F., and W.R., all of Wey. 
mouth, in the county of Digby, Novia Scotia, to the said G.T.
2. San aa afore-mentioned, all the several averment.a in the Aid 
answer contained are respectively untrue.
8. If there waa or is any such inet.rument of transfer aa ia men
tioned in the aeoond article of the a&id answer, the B&me bu never
been registered according to the proviaions of the Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1864.
4. The eaid G.T. bas oner been domiciled in or reeided in the 
United Kingdom, and is now resident in Nova Scotia, and the
re~tered owners of the said vessel in the first pan.graph of the
said defense mentioned were always and are domioiled in Nova 
Beotia, and resident out. of the United King<km.
[Title.] 
&jotnder.
&joinci.-.-The defendant joins iaBue upon the third aad fourth 
paragraphs ef the reply. 
No. 18.-F ALBE l11PR180lfJODff. 
In the High Court of Justice,
Division. 
Writ issued Srd August, 1876.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., Defendant. 
Statmtffli of Claim. 
L Title.]
Btatmlffle of Def~. 
187 B. No. 
1, Claim..-The plaintifff is a journeyman painter. The defendant
fa a builder, having bis building yard, and carrying on bmrineee
at and for si:s. months before and up to the 22nd August,
187 , the plaintifff was in the, defendant's employment as a journeyman painter. 
2. On the said 22nd August, 187 , the plaintifff came to work u 
usual in the defendant's yard, at about si:s. o'clock fn the morning.
8. A few minutes after the plaintifff had so come to work, the 
defendant'a foreman, X. Y., who wae then in the yard, _called the
plaintifff to bitn, and accused the plaintifff of having on the previous 
day stolen a quantity of paint, the property of the defendant, from
the yard. 'l'be plaintifff denied the charge, bat X.Y. gave the
plaintifff into the custody of a constable, whom he hld previously
sent for, upon a charge of stealing painL 
4. The dflfendant was preseut at the time when the plaintifff wu 
given into custody, and at.tborised and aaeented to hia being so 
given into custody; and in any case .X. Y., in giving him into custody, was acting within the scope and in the course of his emy]oy
ment as the defendant's foreman, and for the purposes o the
defendant's businese, 
6. The plaintifff, upon hciog so given into custody, was taken by
the said constable a considerable distance through various streets. 
on foot, to the police station, and he was there detained
In a cell till late in the same afternoon, when be waa taken to 
the police court, and the charge against him was beard
before the magistrate then sitting there, and was dismissed. 
6. In consequence of being so given into custody, the plaintifff
suffered annoyance And disgrace, and loss of time and wages, and 
lou of credit and reputation, and was thereby unable to obtain any
employment or earn any wagee for three months. 
The plaintifff claims l. damages.
The plaintifff propoeea that this action should be tried in 
Jrltddlesex. 
1 .Defence.-The defendant denies that he was preaent at the
time when the plaintifff was given into custody, or that he in any 
way authorized or assented to his being given into custody. And
the eaid X. Y., in giving the plaintifff into custody, did not aot within
the scope or in the course of hie employment as the defendant's
foreman, or for the pnrpoaea of the defendant's busineae. 
2. At aome time about five or ei:s. o'clock on the being
the evening before the plaintifff was given into custody, a large 
quantity of paint had been feloniouelf. stolen by some pel'IIOn or 
pel'IOD8 from a shed upon the defendants yard and premieea. 
8. At about 5.80 o'clock on the evening of the the
plainWf, who bad left off work about half-an-hour preTiouly, wu 
seen coming out of the shed when no ooe else was in it, although
hia work lay in a distant part of the yard from, and be had no
busioeea in or near, the shed. He was then eeen to go to the back
of a stacof timber in another part of tho yard. Shortly afterwards the paint waa found to have been stolen, and it was found
concealed at the back of the stack of Umber, behind which the
plaintifff had been seen to go, 
4. On the following morning, before the plaintifff was given into
custody, be was uked by X. Y. what he bad been in the shed snd
behind the st.aok of timber for, and be denied having been in either
place. X.Y. had reasonable and probable cause for suspecting, and
did suapect that the plaintifff wu the person whQ bad stolen the 
paint, and thereupon gave him into custody.
(Title.] 
&pig.
&plg.-The plaintifff joins issue upon the defendant's statement 
of defense. -- 
[ Name of Judgd.1 
In the High Court of Justice,
Chancer,. Division 
Writ issued ] .Between R. W., plaintifff, and .S. and J.B., Defendants. 
Stawnent of Claim.
1. Claim.-By an indenture, dated the 25th of March, 186i, made 
between the defendant, 0.8., of the one part.. and the plaintifff of
the other part, the defendant, 0.S., io consideration of the sum of
10,0001. paid to him by the plaintifff, conveyed to the plaiotilf and
his heirs a Iarin containing 398 acres, situate in the parish of B.,
in the county of D., with all the coal mines, seams of coal, and
other mines Rod minerals in and under the same, subject to a proviso for redemption of the same premises on payment by the
defendant, 0.8., his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, to
the plaintifff, his executors, adurinistratora, or &.88igns, of the sum
of 10,000/., with interest for the same in the meantime at the rate of 
41. per cent. per annum, on the 2,5th day of September then nexL
2. By an indenture, dated t.be let day of April, 1867, made be
tween t.he defendan~1 O.S., of the one psrt, and the defendant, J.B.,
of the other part, Ule defendant, 0.8., conveyed to the defendant,
J.B., and hie heirs, the hereditamenta comprised in the hereinbefore
slated security of the plaintifff, or some part.a thereof, aubjeot. to the
plainWf's said security, and subject. to a proriao for redempUoo of
the eame premiaee on payment by the defendant, O.S., his heirs, 
executors, administrators, or &88igns, to t.be defendant, J.B., bis
executors, administrators, or aasigos, of the sum of 16,000l., with 
iaterest for the eame in Lhe meantime at the r&te of 61. per cent. per 
annum. 
No. 14.-FORECLOSUR& 
1876. W. No. 672. 
8. The whole of the aid sum of 10,0001., with au arrear of in
terest thereon, remains doe to the plaintifff on bia said eecarity.
Tbe plaintifff claims u follows:- 
L That an account may be taken of what ie doe to the plain. 
tiff for principal money and interest on his said security,
and that the defendants may be decreed to pay to the
plaintifff what shall be found due to him on taking BUch
account, together with bis costs of this action, by a day to
be appointed by the court, the plaintifff being ready and
willing, and hereby offering, upon being paid t,is principal 
money, interest, and costs, a( such appointed time., to convey the said mortgaged premises as the court shall direct. 
2. That in default of such payment the defendant.a ma7 be
foreelosed of the equity of redemption in the mortgaged 
premises,
8. Such further or other relief as the nature of the case may 
require. 
In the High Court of Justice,
ChanceJ. Division. 
NQ111oj Judge.]
Between R. ., plaintiff, ad V.S. and J.B., defendants (by original 
action,)
And between the nid O.S, plaintifff, and the said R. W. and J.B., 
and J. W., defendants (by counterclaim). 
TM lkjen~ and COU1Un' Claim of the abor,e-fl(Jflltd O.S. 
187 W. 672. 
1. l>ejence.-This defendant does not admit that the contents of
the indenture of the 26th day of March, 1867, in the plaintUl's
statement of complaint mentioned, are correctly stated therein. 
2. The indenture of the let day of April, 1867, in the statement
of claim mentioned, was not a security for the sum of 15,000/. and 
interest at 51. per cent, per annum, but for the sum of 14,000L only,
with interest at the rate of 41. 10,. per cent. per annum. 
8. This defendant submits that under the circumstances in his
counterclaim mentioned, the aaid indentures of the 25th day of
March, 1867, and the 1st day of April, 1867, did not create any 
effectual security upon the mines and minerals in and under the
lands in the same indenturee comprised, and that the same minea
and minerals ought to be treated as excepted out of the said
securit.ies. 
Counter-claim.-And by way of counterclaim ibis defendant 
at.ates as follows:1. At &be time of the exeoution of the indenture next herein
after stated, J.C.A. waa seiaed in fee simple in po88M8ion
of the lands deecribed in the said indentures, and the
mines and minerals in and under the Mme. 
2. By indenture dat.ed the 24th of March, 1860, made between
the said J.C.A., of the flm part, E., his wife, then E.8., 
spinster, of the aecond part, and this defendant and the
above-named J. W., of the third part, being a settlement 
made in contemplation of the marriage, abortJ7 af&er 
solemnieed, between the eaid J.C.A. and his u.fd wife, the
laid J.C.A. granted to thia defendant and the l&id J. W.,
and their heirs, all the ooal mines, bede of coal, and other
the minee and minerals llnder the aaid lands, with such
powers and privileges u in the now-et.ating indenture
mentioned, for the purpose of winning, working, and get
ting the same minee and minerals, to hold tbe me premiaes t.o this defendant and the 11aid J. W., and their heirs,
to the use of the uid J.C.A., hia heirs and assigns, till the
eolemoisation of the said marriage, and after the solemnisation thereof to the use of ihia defendant and the said
J. W., their executors and administrators, for the term of
600 years, from the day of the date of the now-etating fn. 
denture, upon the truta therein mentioned, being trusts
for the bt,neflt of the said J.C.A.., and his wife and the 
children of their marriage, and from and after the expiration or other determination of the said term of 000 years
and in the meantime subject. thereto, to the uae of the id
J.C.A., his heirs and uaigns for ever, 
3. By indenture, dated the 12th of May, 1860, made between
the said J.C.A,. of the one part, and W.N., of the other 
part, the said J.C.A. granted to the B&id W.N. and hie hein
the said lands, except the coal mfnse, beds of coal, and 
other minee and minerals thereunder, to hold the same premises unto and to the use of the said W.N., bis heirs and
assigns for ever, by way of mortgage, for secnring the 
payment t.o the said W.N., his executors, administraton,
or assigns, of the sum of 26,000L, with interest as therein 
mentioned.
4. On the 14th of January, 1864, the eaid J.C.A. wu adjudi
cated a bankrupt, and shortly afterwards J.L. was appointed creditors' aaeignec of bbl est.ale. 
5. Some time after the said bankruptcy, the said W.N., under
a power of sale in his said mortgage deed, contracted with
thie defendant for the absolute eale to this defendant of
the property comprised in bis said security for an estat.e in
fee simple in po88e88ion, free from fncumbrancoa, for t.he
1um of 26,000L, and the said J.L., as such assignee as
aroresaid agreed to join in the conveyance t.o this defendant. for tbe purpose of signifying bis &e1ent t.o such
sale. 
6. By indenture dated the let of September, 1866, made between t.he said W.N. of the tint part, the said J.L. of the 
88COnd pan, the aaid J.C.A. of the third part. and this
defendant of the fourth part, reciting the eaid agreement 
for sale, and reciting that the said J.L., being satiafted
that the aaid sum of 26,000L wu a proper price, had, with
the B&Dction of the Oourt. of Bankruptcy, agreed to confirm
the said ule, ft waa witneeaed that in consideralion of the 
sum of 26,000Z., with the privity and approbation of the
uld J.L., paid by this defendant to the said W .N., be the 
said W.N. granted, and the said J.C.~. ratified and con
Bnned to thia defendaot and bis hein, all the heredita- 
menta comprised in the said security of the 12th day of
May, 1860, with their rights, members, and appurtenancee,
and all the, eetate. right, title, and interest of them, the 
said W.N. and J.C.A. therein, to hold the &ame /remiaee
unto and to the use of this defendant., hia heirs ao aaaigns 
for ever. 
7. The sale to this defendant was not ictended to include
anything not included in the security of the 12th of M~7, 
1860, and the said J.L. only concurred therein to signify 
his approval of the said aale, and did not purport to
convey any estate vested in him; and the laetly hereiDbefore stated indenture did not veet in thia defendant any 
estate in the &&id mines and minerals.
8. The plaintifff and the defendantJ.B.re&i:eclively bad before 
they advanced to this defendant the monies lent by them
on their securities in the plaintifff's claim mentioned, full
notice that the mines and minerals under the said lands
did not belong to this dt,fendanL Thia fact appeared on 
the abstracts of title delivered to them before the preparation of their. Bllid securities. A valuation of the property
made by a surveyor we& furnished to them respectively on
behalf of this defendant before they aJO'eed to lldvanee 
their money on their said securities; but alt.bough the
aaid lands are In a mineral district, the mines and minPrala
were omitted from such valuation, and they N>spectinly 
knew at the time of taking their said securities tbat the 
ume did not include any interest in the minee and
miuerals. 
9. At the time when the securities of the plaintifff and the
defendant J.B. were respectively executed, the plaintifff
and the defendant J.B. respectively bad notice of the said
indenture of settlement of the 24th day of March, 1860. 
10. At the time when the plaintifff'security w11s executed, the
mines and minerals under tho said lands, with such
powers and privileges as aforesaid, were vested in this
defendant and the safd J. W. for the residue of the said
term of 600 years, and subject to the said term, the inheritance in the same minee, minerals, powers, and privileges was vested in the said J.L. u such UBignee as 
aforeeaid. 
11. The said security to the plaintifff was by mistake framed ao
as to purport to include the mines and mineral& under the
said lands, and by virtue thereof the.fegal estate in moiety
of the said mines and mineral& became and now ia Tested iD
the plaintifff for the residue of the said term of 500 yeara, 
The defendant 0.8. claims as follows :
1. That it may be declared that neitb<>r the plaintifff nor the 
defendant J.B. has any charge or lien upon that one undivided moiet1., which in manner aforesaid became vested 
in the plaintifff for the residue of the said term of 600
years, of and in the minN and minerals in and under the
lands mentioned in the plaintifff's aa.ld security. 
2. That it may be declared tba, the said minee and mlnerala, 
rigbta, and privileges, which by the said indentore of
settlement were vested in the defendant O.S. and the said 
J. W. for the said term of 500 yeare, upon trust as therein
mentioned, ongbt to be so conveyed and asaured u that
the same may become vested in the defendant O.S. and the 
said J. W. for all the residue of the id term upon the
truat8 of the said settlement, 
3. That the said R. W. and J. W. may be decreed to execute al
suph 1188Urances as may be necessary for giving effect. to 
tho doolaration secondly hereinbefore prayed.
~. To have such further or other relief as the nature of the 
case may require. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Chancery Division. 
[.Name of Judge.l
Between R. W., plaintifff, and O.S. and J.B., defendants (by 
original action).
And between tho said O.S., plaintifff, and the said R. JV., and J.B. 
and J. W., defendants (by counterclaim). 
The &ply of the Plaintiff R. W. 
1. &ply.-The plaintifff joins issue with the defendants upon
their several defenses, aud in reply to the statements alleged by 
the defendant O.S .by way of counterclaim, the plaintifff says u
follows: 
1. The plaintifff does not admit the execution of any such indenture as is stated in the said counterclaim to bear date
2itb of March, 1860. 
2, The plaintifff does not admit that the indenture of the 12th
of May, 1860, is stated correctly iu the statement of 
claim. 
1876. w. 672. 
a. When the defendant O.S., iu tho year 1866, applied to the
plaintifff to advanoe him the sum of 10,000/., he offered to 
the i,laint.iff aa a. security the lauds which were afterwards comprlsed in tho indenture of the 25th of March,
1867, including the mines and minerals which he now 
alleges were not to form pa.rt of tho security, and the
plaintifff agreed to lend the said sum upon the security of
the said lands, including such mines and minerals.
During the negotiation for the said loan a valuation of
the property to be included in the mortgage was delivered 
to the plaintifff on behalf of the said defeudanL Such
valuation included the mines and minerals ; and the
plaint.iii consented to make the loan on the faith of such
valuation. The plaintifff did not know when be took his
security that it did not include any interest in the said
mines and minerals; on tho contrary, he believed that 
the entirely of such wiueti and miuerals WIUI to be included
therein. 
4. The plaintifff does not admit the contents of the indenture
of the 1st of September, 1866, to be It.ti alleged, vr that it 
was so framed as not to include the said minee and
minerals, or that it was not intended to include anything 
not included in the security of the 12th of .May, 1860, or
that J.L. in the counterclaim named only concurred 
therein to signify his approval of the said sale, and did not
purport to convey an7 estate vested in him. 
5. Save so far as the plaintifff's solicitor may have had notice
b:, means of the abstract of title that the mines and 
minerals under the said lands did not belong to the
defendant O.S., the plaintifff had not any notice thereof, 
and he dees not admit that it appeared from the abstract
of title that such was the case. The mines were not
omitted from any valuation delivered to the plaintifff as
mentioned in the counterclaim. 
6. The plaintifff admits that when he toot his security he was
aware that there was indorsed on the doed by which the 
said lands were conveyed by J.C.A., in the counterclaim
named a notice of a settlement of 2(th March, 1860, bat
he bad no further or other notice thereof, and though hia 
solicitor inquired after such settlement none was ever
produced. 
7. The plaintifff submits that if it shall appear that no farther
interest in the said mines and minerals was conveyed to 
him by his said security than one undivided moiety of a
term of 600 yeara therein, aa alleged by the said counter 
claim, such interest is effectually included in the plain tiff'said security, and that ho is entitled to foreclose the
same. 
In the High Court of J ostice.
Division. 
No.15.
fraud. 
Writ issued 3rd August, 1876.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defendant. 
Statement of Claim. 
187 B. No. 
1. Claim.-In or about March, 18i5, the defendant caused
to bo inserted in the Daily T,.i,gmpk Newspaper an advertisement, 
in which he offered for AAle the lease, fixtures, fittings, goodwill,
and stock-in-trade of a baker's shop and business, and cf~ribcd 
the same ns an increasing business, and doing twelve sncks a weE>k.
'I'ho advertisement directed application for particulars to be made 
toX.r.
2. The plaintifff hnving Reen tho advertisement applied to X.r., 
who j-laced him in communication with the defendant, aud negotiatioue ensued between the plaintifff and tho defendant for tho sale
to the plaintifff of the defendant's bakery at with tho 
lease, fixtures, fittings, stock-iu.trade, and goodwill.
3. In tho course of these negotiationa tho defendant repeatedly 
stated to the plaintifff that tho business was a bl.<:11dily increa1dng 
businees, and that it was a boainese of more thao twelve sacks a
week. 
4. On the 5th of April, 18i5, the plaintifff, believing the said
statements of the defendant to be true, agreed to purchase the said 
premises from the defendant for 5001., and paid to him a deposit of
200L in respect of the purchase. 
5. On the 15th of April the purchase was comfleted, an
assignment of the leue executed, and the balance o the 1;>ur. 
chase money paid. On the same day the plaintifff entered tuto 
poesesslon,
6. The plaintifff soon afterwards discovered that at the time of 
the negotiationa for the said purchase by him and of the said agreement, and of the completion thereof, the said business WM and had 
long been a declining business; and at each of those times, and
for II long time before, it had never been a busine88 of more tbau
eight sacks a week. And the said premises were not of the value
of 6001., or of any saleable value whatever. 
7. The defendant made the false representations hereinbefore
mentioned well knowing them to be false, and fraudulenUy, with 
the intention of inducing the plaintifff to make the said purchase on
the faith of them. 
The plaintifff claims l; damages.
[TiUe.] 
[Title.]
&pl!I, 
Replg.-The plaiuLill joius issue upou thti defendaut's 111.atemont 
of defense. 
&alemt:nt of Defence. 
1. Defence.-The defendant says that at the time when he made
the representations mentioned in the third paragraph of the statement of claim and throughout the whole of the transactions bet ween
the plaintifff and defendant, and down to the completion of the
purchaeo and tho relinquishment by the defendant of the said shop
nod business to the plaintifff, the said business waa an increasing
business, and was a business of over twelve sacks a week. And 
the defendant denies the allegations of the sixth paragraph of tho
statement of cla.im. 
2. The defendant repeatedly during the uegotiations told the
pl11iotiff that be must not act upon any statement or representation 
of his, but must ascertain for himself the extent and value of the
&aid busineea. And tho defendant handed to the plaintifff for this 
purpose the whole of his books, showing fully and truthfully all
the details of the said business, aod from which the nature, extent,
and value thereof could be fully seen, and those books were
examined for that purpose by the plaintifff, and by an accountant on
bis behalf. And the plt,intiff made the purchase in reliance upon 
his own judgment, and the result of his own inquiries and invo11tigations, and not upon any statement or representation whatever of 
the defendant. 
No.16. 
Guaranuie.
In the High Court of Justice. 
Division.
Wrlt issued 8rd August, 1876. 
No.17. 
Interee: Suit (Probate,)
In the High Court of Jmtice. 
Probate Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant. 
Statemen! of Clnim. 
187 B. No. 
Between A.B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendants. 
Statement oj Claim. 
1. Claim.-The plaintifffs are brewers, carrying on their business
at under the firm of X. Y. 4' Co. 
2. In the month of March, 1872, M.N. was desirous of- entering
into the employment of the plaintifffs as a traveller and collector,
and it WIUI agreed between the plaintifffs and the defendants and 
M.N., that the plaintifffs should employ M.N. upon tho defondant
entering into the guarantee hereinafter mentioned. 
3. An agreement in writing was accordtngly made and entered
into, on or about the 30th March, 1872, between the plaintifffs and
the defendant, whereby in consideration that the plaintifffs would 
employ M.N. 88 their collector the defendant agreed that be would be
answerable for the due accounting by MN. to the plaintifffs for and
the doe payment over by him to the plaintifffs of all monies which
ho should receive on their behalf as their collector. 
4. Tho plaintifffs employed M.N. &8 their collector accordingly,
and he entered upon the duties of ,ucb employment, and continuod
therein down to the 8lst of December, 1Ai3. 
5. At various timos between the 29th of Seftf'mb<'r and the 25th
of December, 18i3, M.N. received on behalf o the plaintifffs and as
their eollector snms of money from debtors of the plaintifffs amounting in the whole to the sum of 950/. ; and of this nmount .11.N. 
neglected to account for or pay over to the plaintifffs sums amounthlg in the whole to 227l., and appropriated the last-mentioned sums 
to bis own use.
6. The defendant bas not paid the last-mentioned sums, or any 
part thereof to the plaintifffs.
The plaintifffs claim :- 
187, B. No, 
1. Claim.-,ll.N., late of No. High-street, Putney, in the
county of Surrey, grocer, deceased, died on or about the daf. of 
, at No. 1, High-street, Putney, aforesaid, a widower, without child, parent!.. brother or 11ister, uncle or aunt, nephew or nioce. 
2. The plaiotin is the cousin-german, and one of the next of kin
,of tbe deceased. 
Tho plaintifff oJaima :That the court decree to him a ltJ'&Dt of letters of administration 
No.18. 
Landlord and Tenant. 
In the High Court of J uatice. 
Division. 
[TiUo.]
Reply, 
1. &ply.-The plaintifff denies that G.B. waa married lo E.B. 
2. He alao denies that the defendant is the isaue of suoh mar
riage. 
of the personal estate and otfecta of the said deoeued u his
lawful cousin-germen, and one of bia next of kin. 
[TiUe,l 
Defenc: 
1. Defence.-The defendant admits that M.N. died a widower,
without child, parent, brother or sister, uncle or aunt, or niece, but 
he deniee that. he died without a nephew.
2. The deceased had a brother named G.B., who died in his life
time.
8. G.B. waa married to E.H. in the pariah church of in 
the county of on the day of and bad issue of
such marriage, the defendant., who was born in the month of
and is the nephew and next of kin of the deceased. 
The defendant thereforee claims:That the court pronounce that he is the nephew and next of 
kin of the deceued, a.nd u such entitled to a grant of letters
of administration of the person&! estate and effects of the
deceued. 
Writ issued 8rd August, 1876,
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant. 
&alM1lfflt of Claim, 
187 B. No. 
1. Claim.-On the day of the plaintifff, by deed, let 
to the defendant a house and premises, No. 62, street, in the
City of London, for a term of 21 years from the day of , 
at the yearly rent of 1201., payable quarterly. 
z. Dy the said deed the defendant covenanted to keep the said
house and premises in good and tena.ntable repair. 
3. The Raid deed also contained a clause of re-entry, entitling
the plaintifff to re-enter upon the said house and premises, in case
the rent tberoby reserved, whether demanded or not, should be fn 
arrear for twenty-one days, or in case the defendant should make
default in tho performance of any covenant upon his part to be 
performed.
4. On the 24th June, 187 , a quarter's rent became due, and on. 
the 29th of September, 187 , another quarter's rent became due; on
the 21st October, 187 , both had been in arrear for twenty-one days,
and both are still due. 
5. On tho same 21st October, 187 , the hoW18 and premlaee were
not and are not now in good or tenantable repair, and U would
require the expenditure of a large sum of money to reinstate the
same in good and tenantable repair, and the plaintifff'a reversion is
much depreciated in value. 
The plaiutitl claims:1. Posseeeioa of the said house and premises. 
2. I. for arrears of rent.
8. I. damages for the defendant's breach of bis covenant 
to repair.
4. I. for t.be oocupation of the house and premisea from 
the 29th of September, 187 , to the day of recovering pos
&e88ion. 
The plaintifff proposes that this action should be tried in London. 
'' THE ENTERPRISE." 
Between .A..B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defend&nta. 
&aummt oJ Claim. 
1. Claim.-The plaintifffs were at the time hereinafter stated and
are engineers and lronfounden,, carrying on buain888 at LiTerpool,
in the oounty of Lancaster. 
2. In the month of January, 1872 whilst the above-named etee.m
ahip "Enterprise,'' belonging to the port of London, waa in the
port of Liverpool, the plaint.Ufa, having received orders frora the
master in that behalf, executed corbin necessary work to her and
supplied her with certain neoossary stores and mat.erials, and
caused her t.o be supplied upon their credit with certain necesaary 
work, labour, materials, and necessaries, and thereby supplied the
aaid ship with neoessariea within the meaning of the fifth section of
the Admiralty Court Act, 1861. 
8. There ia due to the plaintifffs in respect of such supply of
necessariea to tho said ship the sum of 5771,,. 2a. 6d., and the
plaintifffs cannot obtain payment thereof without tho R8tliatanoe of 
the court.
'fhe plaintifffs claim :- 
1. Judgment pronouncing for the claim of the plaintifffs :
2. The condemnation of the defendants and their bail therein, 
with costs: 
No.19. 
Ntceuarie6 for Ship,
In the Righ Court of J 11&tice. 
Admfralty Division.
Writ fssued [ 
]. 
8. A reference, if necessary, of the claim of the plaintifffs to
the rE1gistrar, assisted by nssessors, to report the amount 
thereof":
4. Such further relief 88 the nature of the case require1, 
187 B. Nl. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Divisien. 
[Title.] 
&ply.
1. &ply.-The plaintifffs join issue upon the statement of 
defense. 
(Title.J 
Deface. 
1. ~enc&-The defendants deny the allegations contained in
the third paragraph of the statement. of claim. 
2. The defendant.a admit t.hat the plaintifffs executed certain work
to the said ship. and supplied her with certain materials, but they 
say, that a portion of the work so executed was executed badly and
insufficiently, and of the materials 110 supplied, some were bad and
insufficient, and a portion of the work in the claim mentioned was
done in and about altering and endeavouring to make good such 
bad and insufficient work and materials. The defendant has paid
in respect of the work and materials in the claim mentioned tho
sum of 3561. 1~,. 9d., and the said sum is sufficient to satisfy the 
claims of the plaintifffs. 
3. The defendants deny the allegations contained in the second
paragraph of the claim, so far as they relate to any claim beyond
the said sum of 8561. 17,. 9d., and say that if the plaintifffs did 
execute any work or did supply any materials other than the
work and materials mentioned in the second paragraph of this
defense, such work was not necessary work, and such materials 
were not necessary materials, within the meaning of the fifth section
of the Admiralty Oourt Act, 1861, and were not supplied in such 
circumatances as to render the defendants liable to pay for the
same. 
No. 20. 
N'-9ligence. 
Writ issued 3rd August. 1876.
Between .A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defendant. 
Statement of Claim. 
187. B. N. 
1. Claim.-The plaintifff is a shoemaker, carrying on buaineS.1 at
. The defendant is a soap and candle manufacturer, 
of .
2. On the 23rd May, 1875, the plaintifff was walking eastward 
along the eoutb aide of Fleet-street, in the city of London, at about
three o'clock in the afternoon. He was obliged to cross 
street, which ia a street running into Fleet-street at right an~lea
on the eoath side. While he was CJ'06sing this stree~ and Just
before he could reach the foot pa.vement on the further side thereof, 
a two-hol'8e vau of the defendant's, under the charge and control
of the defendant's servants, was negligently, suddenly, and without 
any warning, turned at a rapid and dangerous pace out of Fleet- 
street into street. The pole of the van etruok the plaiotiff
Rod knocked him down, and be was much trampled by the horses. 
8. By the blow and fall and trampling the plaintifff's left arm was
broken, and he was bruised anrt injured on the side And bsck, as 
wen n.s internally, and in consequence thereof the plaintifff was for
four months ill aud iu suffering, and uuable to attend to his business, and incurred heavy medical and other expenses, and sustained
great loss of business and profits. 
Tho plaintifff claims L damages.
[Title.] 
Statement of Defence.
1. /k/mce.-The defendant denies that the van was the defen
dant's van, or that it. waa under the charge or control of the
defendant's servant. The van belonged to Mr. John Smith, of 
, a carman and contractor employed by the
defendant to carry and deliver goods for him; and the pereons
under whose charge and control the said van was were the servants
of the said Mr. John Smith. 
2. The defendant does not admit that the van waa turned out of
Fleet-street, either negligently, suddenly, or without warning, or
at a rapid or dangerous pace. 
8. The defendant says, that the plaintifff might and could, by the
exercise of reasonable care and diligence, have seen the van
approaching him, and avoided any collision with it. 
4. The defendant does not admit the statements of the third
paragraph of the statement of claim. 
187, B. No.
No. 21. 
Pouemon of Ship.
In the Hi~h Court of J ustioe. 
Admiralty Division. 
II 
rTitle.]
Reply. 
Rq,lg.-Tho plaintifff joins i88ue upon the defendant.'st&temen t.
of defense. 
(Writ iaaued ]. 
THE LADY OF THE LAKE." 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defendanL 
St~n1, of Claim. 
1. Claim.-On or about the 15th of July, 1868, an agreement wae
entered into between the plaintifff and J. D., who was then the sole 
owner of the nbove named barque, "Lady of the Lake," whereby
J.D., agreed to sell, and the pln.intiff agreed to purchase, 32-64t.b
parts or shares of the vessel for the sum of 5001.; payment 3001.
in cash, and the remainder by purchaser's accept.aucos at three And
six months date, and it wna thereby agreed that the plaintifff was
to be commander of the vessel. 
2. The plaintifff accordingly paid to J. D. the sum of 800/., and
gave him bis(the plaintifff's)l\cet'plances at three and six months date 
for the residue of the said purchase money, and J. D. by bill of sale
transferred 8~-64th parts or shares iu the vessel to the plaintifff, 
which bill of sale was duly registered on the 18th of July, 1868;
the plaintifff has since been and still is the registered owner of such
32-64th shares. 
3. The vessel then sailed under the plaintifff's command on a
voyage from Sunderland to the Brazils and other ports, and then 
on a homeward voyage to Liverpool, where she arrived on the 18th
of June, 1869, aad having there discharged her homeward cargo 
she sailed thence under the plaintifff's command with a cargo to
the Tyne, and thence to Sunderland, at which port she arrived on 
the 9th of August. 1869.
4. The plaintifff then made several ineffectual applioationa to 
J. D., wit.ii a view to obtaining another charter for the said vessel, 
and after she had been lying idle for a considerable time, the
plaintifff on or about the 16th of September, 1869, obtained an 
advantageons charter for her to proceed to Barcelona with a cargo
of coals, and wita a view to enabling her to execute such charter
the plaintifff paid the dock dues, and moved the vessel into a slipway 
in order that her bottom might bo cleaned, but on or about the
lith of Septemberl whilst tho vessel wu on the shore adjoining
the slipway, the aefendant, to whom the said J. D. bad in the
meantime transferred his 82-64th r.rts, forcibly took the vessel 
ou,t of the possession of the plainti , and refused and still refuses
to allow the pl&intif[ to take the vessel on her said voyage to
Barcelona, and by reason thereof heavy loss 18 boing occasioned to
tho vlaintiff. 
The plaintifff claims r-
1. Judgment giving passe88ion of the vessel '' Lady of tho
Lake " to the phuntiff: 
2. The condemnation of the defendant in costs of suit, and in
all losses and damages occasioned by the defendant to the 
plaintifff:
3. Such further relief as the nature of the case requires, 
[Title.] 
Defence: 
1, Dejence.-Tbe defendant says that the acceptances in thb
second paragraph of the claim mentioned were res~tively dis
honoured by the plaintifff and have never yet been paid by him.
2. It wa.s agreed between the plaintifff and J. D. thatJ. D. should 
act, and he bas since always acted, as ship's husband of the 
Lady
of the Lake," 
8. On tho 31et of August\ 1869, J. D. sold to the defendant, for
the sum of 4001., and by bil of sale duly executed, transferred to 
him bis 326-lth shares, and the bill of sale was duly registered on
the 14th of September following. 
4. After the "Lady of the Lake ,, bad arrived at Sunderland, and
after the defendant bad purchased from J. D. his 82-64th shares of 
the "Lady of the Lake;" the defendant placed the vessel in the
custody and possession of a shipkeeper. The plaintifff', however, 
11 
unlawfully removed her from such poeeellrion, and thereupon the
defendant had the vessel taken into \he South Dock of the harbour
at Sunderland, with orders that she should be kept there. What
the defendant did, 11s in thia article mentioned, be did with tbe 
consent and fuU approval of J, D.
6. At the time of the sale of the" Lady of the Lake" by J. D. to 
the defendant. as aforementioned, there was and there still ia due
from the plaintifff, as part owner of the "Lady of the Lake," to 
J. D., 88 part ownt-r aud ship's husband, "sum of money ezeeeding
3001. in respect of the V08861 and her voyagwl O\'~r and above the
moant of the unpaid acoeptencos, 
G. Savo as herein appears, tho avermenta in the fourth paragraph
of the claim contained are untrue, and if the chnrter-party mentioned in that paragraph was obtained by the plaintifff as alleged, 
which the defendant docs not admit, it was obtained by him without tho authority, consent, or knowledge of J. D. or thtt defendant, 
7. Before thedefendant took p<>&l(l88ion of the veuel aa aforementioned, the plaintifff oe&l!Od to be master of her, with the oouent
of J. D. or the defendant. 
8. J. D. has instituted a.n action against the said veeeel in
in order to have the acoonnta taken 
between him and the plaintUfl and to enforce payment of the
money due from the plamtiff to him, 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
(Title. l 
&ply. 
1. &J>ly.-The plaintifff says in reply to the first paragraph of
the defense that \he bills therein mentioned were dishonoured by
the plaintifff because J.D. was indebted to the plaintifff in II large
amount for his wages as master, and for his share of the earoillga 
of the "Lady of the Lake," and refused payment thereof.
2. J.D. did not place tho vessel in the exclu.eive custody or pee- 
8088ion of a shipkeeper as in the fifth paragrafh of the defense
stated or implied. On the oontnt.r,:, the vcase continued in tho 
custody and possesaiou of tho plaintifff, who still holds her register.
A man was sent on board the vessel by J.D. to look after J.D.'s 
share in the said vessel while she was ill dock, but he did not dis
po8861!8 the said plaintifff or take exclusive po88tl8Sion of the vessel,
nnd the plaintifff was not dispo88888ed of the vessel until on or
about the 17th of September laet, 
8. Except as herein before appears the plaintifff joins issue upon
the defendant's statement of defense. 
[Title.] 
RejofMU'r, 
&joinckr.-The defenda.nt joins issue upon the first and second
paragraphs of the reply. 
No. 2-l, 
Prorniuory Not.e. 
187 . B. No. 
Writ issued 3rd August, 1876.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and .}:, defendant. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Probate Division. 
Statement of Claim. 
1. Claim.-The defendant on the day of made
his promissory note, whereby he promised to pay to the plaintifff or 
his order l. thrco months after date.
2. The note became due on the day ul 18H, 
and the defendant baa not. paid it.
The plaintifff' claims :- 
The amount of the note and intereet thereon to judgmont.
The plaintifff proposes that. thi8 action should bo tried in the 
county of 
L 'l'il!c. J 
Stafe111-:11t ul ]),:/me,., 
1 . .Deje,ice.-Tbe defendant made the note sued upon under the
following circumstances :-The plaintifff and defendant had for some 
years been in partnership aa coal merchants, and it had been agreed
between them that lhey should dissolve partnership, that lhe
plaintifff should retire from the businees, that the defendant should 
take over the whole of the partnership assets and liabilities, and
should pay the plaintifff the value of bis share in the assets after 
deducting the liabilities.
2. The plaintifff thereupon undertook to examine the partnership 
books, and inquire into the state of the partnership assets and liabilities; and he did accordingly examine the books, and make the
said inquiries, and he thereupon represented to the defendant that
the assets of the firm exceeded 10,0001., and that the liabilities of
the firm were under 30001., whereas the fact was that the aseets of
the firm were less thau 50001., and the liabilities of tho firm largely
exceeded the assets. 
3. The misrepresentations mentioned in tho last p&ragr&pb induced the defendant to make the note now sued on, and there never 
was any other consideration for the making of the note.
[Title.] 
&ply. 
Reply.-The plaintifff joins issue on the defense. 
No. 28. 
Probate oj Will in Solemn Form. 
Writ issued [ ].
Between .A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defendant. 
Statemtnt oj Claim. 
187 . B. No. 
1. Claim.-C.T., late of Bioester, in the county of Oxford, gentleman, deceased, who died on the 20th of ~January, 1876, at 
Bioeeter, being of the "ge of t~enty-one years, made hia last will, 
with one codicil thoreto, the said will bearing date the 1st day of
October, 1874, and the said codicil the lat of January, 1875, and in 
the said will appointed the plaintifff soil' executor thereof.
2. 'fhe said will and codicil were signed by the deceased [ or, by 
X. Y., in the presence and by the directions of the deceased. or
signed by the deceased, who acknowledged bis signature, or tU tie 
case may be] in the presence of two witneBSeS present at the same
time, the said will in the presence of H.P. and J.R., and the said
codicil in tho presence of J.D. and G.E., and who eubeoribed t.be
eame in the presence of the said deceased.. 
3. The deceased was at the time of the execution of t.be said will
and codicil respectively of sound mind, memory, and under
standing.
The plaintifff claims:- 
That the court shall decree probate of the &&id will and codicil
in solemn form of law. 
[Title.]
Staufltfflt of Def enc& 
The defendant says as follows:
1 .De/enc&-The said will and codicil of the said deceased were 
not duly executed according to Ulo proviaiona of the statute 1 VicL 
e, 26.
2. The dooeased at the time the said will and codicil respectively 
purport to have been executed was not of sound mind, memory,
and understanding. 
3. The execution of the said will and codicil was obtained by the
undue induence of the plaintifff [and others acting with him, whoee
names are at present unknown to the defendant]. 
4. The execution of the said will and codicil was obtained by the
fraud of the plaintifff, such fraud, so far aa is within the defendant's 
present knowledge being [1tahs the natw-e of tM /raudl, 
5. 'I'he said deceased at the time of the execution of the said
will and codicil did not kuow and approve of the contents thereof, 
or of the contents of t.be residuary clause in the said will [a, tM 
case may be]. 
6. The deceased wade bis true last will, dated the let day of
Januttry, 18i8, and in the said will appointed the defendant sble 
executor thereof. [Propound tl&u toill a, in parag,-a.pA, 2 cmd 8 oJ 
claini.]
The defendant claims:- 
1. That the court will pronounce against the said will and
codicil propounded by the plaintifff: 
2. That the Oourt will decree probate of the said will of the said
deceased. dated the 1st day of January, 1878, in solemn 
form of law. 
[Title.] 
B.eply. 
1. &ply.-The plaintifff' joins iMue upon the statement of defense
of the defendant, as contained in the first, aecond, third, fourth, and
fifth paragrafhs thereof. 
2. The plaintifff says that t.he said will of the Aid deoeuod, daied 
the 1st of Janua~, 1878, was duJy revoked bf. the will of the Mid
1st of October, 18,3, propounded by the pJaintdl in hia statement of 
claim. 
No. 24.
RtcotJe7'1 of Land-Landlord and Tenant. 
Int.he High Court of Justice.
Common Pleu Di Yiaion. 
Writ iaaued 3rd August, 1876.
Between A.B., plaintUf, and C.D., defendant. 
Staununl of Claia
1. Claim.-On the day of t.he plaintifff let to 
the defendant a houe, No. 62, street, in t.he city of
London, as tenant from year to year, at t.he yearly rent of 120/., 
payable quarterly, t.he tenancy to commence on the day
of 
2. The defendant took poe&e88ion of the houe and continued
tenant thereof until t.he day of last, when t.he
tenancy determined by a notice duly given. 
8. The defendant baa disregardccf t.he notice and still retains
poueseion of the house, 
The i>Jaintiff claims:1. P088888ion of the house.
2.l, for meene profit.a from the day of 
The plainWI propoeee that t.hi8 action should be tried in London.
187 No. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Common Pleas Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendant (by origin&! action),
And between C.D., plaintifff, and .A.B., defendant (by counter- 
claim).
The defense and counter.claim of the above-named C.D. 
1 .Def~.-Before the determination of the tenancy mentioned 
in the statement of claim, the plaintifff, A.B., by writing, dated
t.he day of , and signed by him, agreed to grant 
to the defendant, C.D., a lease of the house mentionea in the state.
ment of claim, at the yearly rent of 160/,, for the term of 21 years, 
commencing from the day of , when the defendant, C.D.'s tenancy, from year to 1.eu determined, and the defen
dant has since that date been and ettll is in posaeuion of the bcuse
under the said agreement. 
2. Counur-claim.-By wa1, of counterclaim the defendant claima 
to have the agreement spec1flcally performed and to have a lease
granted to him accordingly, and for the purpose aforesaid, to have 
this action transferred to the Chancery division. 
187 No.
In the High Court of Justice. 
Chancery Di vision. 
187 B. No. 
(Tranaferred by order dated d&y of .)
Between .A.B., pl&intiff, and C.D., defeod&Dt (by original &ction)t 
And between C.D., plaintifff, and A.B., defendant, (by counter.
claim). 
The reply of the plaintifff A.B. 
Repl9.-The plaintifff .A.B. admits the agreement stated in the
defendant C.D.'s etatement of defense, but be refuaes to grantto the 
defendant a lease, saying that such agreement provided that the
lease should contain I\ coyenant by thA defend11.nt to keep the house 
in good repair and a power of re-entry by the plaintifff upon breach
of such covenant, and the pl&intUf says tbat the defendant has not
kept the house In good repair, and the same i8 now fn a dilapi
dated condition. 
Joinder o I luw.
Tha defendant C.D. joins issue upon the plaintifff A.B.'a state
ment in rep1y. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Oommon Pleas Division. 
Writ iaaued 8rd August, 1876. 
Between .A.B. and C.D., pl&intiffa, and E.F., defendant.
BtatemenJ, of Claim. 
1, Claim.-K.L., Jato of Sevenoaka in the county of Kent, duly
executed bis last wil~ dated the 4th day of April, 1870, and thereby
derieed his Janda at or near Sevonoab, and all other his lands in 
the county of Kent, unto and to the use or the plaintifffs and their
heirs, upon the trusts therein mentioned for the benefit of his 
daughters Margaret and Martha, and appointed the plaintifffs
executol'8 thereof. 
2. K.L. died on the 3rd d&y of January, 1875, and hia said will
wu proved by the plaintifffs in the Court of Probate on or about
the 4th day of February, 1876. 
8. K.L. was at the time of hia death eeleed in fee of a houae at
Sevenoaks, and two farma near there e&lled reepeotfveJ:, 
, the home farm containing 276 acres, and the Longton farm
containing 700 acres, both in the oounty of Kent. 
4. The defendant, soon after the death of K.L., entered into
p<>1149ion of the house ud two farma, and hu refused to give 
them up to the plaintifff.
The plaintifffs claim: 
[Title.] 
No. 25. 
&cot,ery of La,uJ.. 
1. P0886BBion of the house and two farms : 
187 . B. No. 
2. I. for meene profits of the premiaee from the death
of K.L. till such pos8888ion shall be given. 
The plaintifff proposee that this aetion 1hould be tried In the
county of Kent. 
In the Hi~h Court of Justice. 
[Title.] 
Statement of De /entt 
1. Jh/eace.-Tho defendant ia the eldeat IOD of l.L., deceased,
who waa the eldest son of K.L., in the atatement of claim naDM,<L 
2. By articles bearing date the 31st day of Ha1~ 1827, and made
preYious to the marriage of K.L. with Hartba Jue intended wife.
K.L., in consideration of such ill tended marriage, agreed to settle 
the house and two farms in the statem&llt of claim mentioned (atad
nf which he Wl\8 then seised in fee) w the use of bimseU for hia liftt,
with remainder to the uae of hilt intended wife for her life, &nd 
alter the survivor'decease, to the use of the beinl of the body of
the said K.L. on bis wife begott.on, with other remalnden over. 
8. The marriage soon after took effect, K.L., by deeds of leue
and release, bearing date respectively the 4th and 5th of April, 
1828, a.ftor reciting the articloa in alloged perforwanco of them.,
conveyed the house and two farms to tho use of himself for bis life, 
with remainder to the use of his wife for her life, and after the
dooeue of the survivor of them, to the uae of the hell'II body of 
K.L. on the said Martha to be begotten, with other remamdera 
over. 
4. There was laeue of the marriage an only IOn Tbomu L 
and two daughters. After tho death of Thomas L , which
took place in February, 1864, K.L., on the 3rd May, 1864, executed
a clieent&iling asaurance, which wu duly enrolled, and thereby con
veyed the house and two f&nll8 to the uae of himself in fee.
(Title.] 
Repl1,
&ply.-The plaintifffs join i88ue upon the defendant'atatement 
of defense. 
No. 26. 
&loage. 
Adnuralty Division. Writ issned [ J. 
THE "CAMP ANIL." 
Between A.B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendants. 
8l,aJ#JJltfflt Of Claim. 
1. Claim.-The "Brazilian" is a screw steamer belonging to the
port of Newcastle, of the burthen of 1869 tons grou regieteied tonnage, and propelled by engines of 180 horse power, and at the time 
of the rendering of the aalvage servicea hereinafter mentioned she 
wu navigated by her muter and a crew of twenty-four banda.
Bbe left the port of Newcutle on the 27th of Novomber, 1878, on a. 
voyage to Genoa, and thence by way of Palmaru and Aguilaa to
the Tyne, and about 10 a.m. on the 26th of December, 1873._ in the 
oourae of her homeward voyage, with a cargo of merobanafae, 11he
waa off the coast of Portugal, the laland of Ona bearing about B.E. 
by E., when thoee on board her sighted a disabled steamer about
four points on their starboard bow, in-shore, flying signals of
distress. A strong gale was blowing at the Ume, and there wa.s a 
very heavy sea running.
2. The" Brazilian" at once made towards the disabled steamer, 
which proved to be the "CR.mpanil," the vessel proceeded against
in this action, She was heavily laden with a cargo of iron ore. The 
''Brazilian" u sheaf pro ached the" Oampanil" signalled to her,
and the " Campanil answered by signal that her engines had
broken down. By this time the " Campanil " was heading in
shore, rollinf heavily, and shipping a largequantitl of water. Tbo
'' Brazilian ' ca.me under the lee of the "Campand '' and asked if 
she wanted assistance. Her master replied that be wanted to be
towed to ViJO as hia veesel had loet her screw. The master of file
" Brazilian ' then asked those on board the "Campanil" to send 
him a hawser, and for a long time those on board the "Brazilian "
made attempts to get a hawser from the "Camp&nil," and exposed 
themselns and their vessel to great danger in doing so. The wind
and sea. rendering it impoesible to get the hawser whilst the 
" Brazilian " was to leeward of the " Campanil," the " Bra.zilian"
went to windward and attempted to float lines by means of life 
buoys to the" Campanil." During all this time the " Campanil "
was quite unmanageable, and yawed about, and there wu very 
great difficulty in manoouvring the " Brazilian " so as to retain
command over her and keep her near the " Campanil" It waa 
neceuary to keep constantly altering the engines of the
" Brazilian,'' setting them on ahead and reversing them quickly, 
and in consequence the engines laboured heavily and were exposed
to great danger of being strained, 
8. Whilst the "Brazilian" was endeavouring to float linea to the
"Camv.anil," the" Campanil" made a sudden lurch and struck the 
"Brazilian" on her port quarter, knocking in her port bulwark
and rail, and e&UBing other damage to the vessel. After many un
successful efforts by those on board the '' Brav.ilian, and after
they had lost two life buoys and a quantity of rope, a hawser
from the "Oampanil" was at length made fast on board the 
"Br&Y.ili&n," and the ''Brazilian'' wft.h the "Campanil" in tow
steame<l eas7 ahead. A second ha weer was then got out and made
fut with corr springs, and the" Brazilian" then oommenced to tow
full speed ahead, each hawser having a full soope of 90 fathoms. 
i. 'L'he "Brazilian" made towards Vign, which was about 85
miles distant, the vessels made about two knots an hour, \pe
" Brazilian" keeping her engines going at full speed. The
" Brazilian" laboured very heavily, and both vessels snipped large 
quantitit'8 of water.
6. About noon one of the tow ropes broke, and both vessels were 
in danger of being driven ashore, broken water and rocb appearing
to leeward, distant about two miles. After great difficulty the 
broken hawser was mado fast again with a heavy spring of a
number of parts of rope, and the u Brazilian" towed ahead under
the lee of One Island. 
6, Shortly afterwards the weather moderated and the sea went
down a little, and the " Brazilian " waa able to make more way, 
and about 7 p.m. the 11ame day she towed the "Campanil" into
Vigo harbour lo safety. 
7. Tho "Bnzilian" wu compelled to remain in harbour the
next day to pay port chargee and clear at the Custom House. 
8. The coaet off which the aforesaid aervicee were rendered is 
rocky and exceedingly dangerous, and strong ourren ta set along it,
and but for the servioee rendered by the "Brazilian " the u Cam
panil" must have gone ashore and been wholly lost, together with
her cargo, and in all probability her muter and crew would have 
been drowned. No other atcamer wu in sight, and there waa not
any prospect of any other efficient aeaistance. 
9. -in rendering the said servioee the "Brazilian " and those on
board her were exposed to great danger. Owing to the heayY
sea, and the necesaity of towing with a long scope of hawser, there 
waa great danger of fouling the screw of the "Brazilian," and it
required constant vigilance on the part of the muter and crew to. 
prevent serious aooicfenL The muter and crew of the "Bruillan"
underwent much extra fatigue and exertion. 
10. The damage sustained by the" Brazilian" in rendering the
said servicee amount.a to the sum of 1501., and the value of the 
extra quantity of coal consumed in consequence of tbeaaid servioee 
is estimated at 161., and j/. la. od. waa paid by the owners of the
"Brazilian" for harbour duos and other chargee at Vigo. 
11. The value of the "Campanil," her cargo and freight, at the
time of the salvage services were as follows, that is to say: The 
'Camr,anil wu of the valueof 18,000l., her cargo WM of the value
of 800 , and the groaa amount of freight payable upon delivery of 
the cargo laden oo board her at Barrow-hi-Furness was 6751.
12. The value of the " Brazilian," her freight and cargo wu about 
25 0501.
The plaintifffs claim:- 
1. Buch an amount of salvage as to the court may seem just:
2. That the defendant.a and their bail be condemned in costs: 
8. Buch further or oUler relief aa the nature of the case may
require, 
l Title.] 
Staumml oj Defmce.
1. De/~-The dofendantsaay that upon the 22nd of December, 
1878, the iron screw steamship "Oampanil," of the burden of 660
tons register gross, propelled by engines of 70 horse power, 
navigated by David Boughtont.. her master, and a crew of 16
hands, left Forman, bound to Harrow-in-Furness, laden with a 
cargo of iron ore.
2. At about 8 a.m. of the 26th of December, whilst the " Cam
psnil " was prosecuting her voyage, the abaft of her propeller broke
outside the stern tube, and she lost her propeller. The "Oampanil" was then bi-ought to tho wind, which was south by east,
blowing fresh, and she proceeded under sail for Vigo, and continued 
to do so till about 9.80 a.m., when two steamships which had been
for some time in 11igbt, and coming to the northward, approached 
the "Campanil." The ensign of the " Campanil " was hoisted,
union up, as a signal to one of such steamships, which afterwards 
OAme to the "Campanl)," and proved to be the "Brazilian," whose
ownen, master, and crew an, the plaintifffs. 
8. The 
Brazilian" then signalled the" Campanll" and inquired
what was the matter, and was signalled in reply that the "Oam
11 
panil" had lost her propeller, and required to be towed to Vigo,
upon which the " Brazilian " signalled for the rope of the " Cam. 
panil," in order to take her in tow. After this the "Brazilian ''
steamed round the "Campanil" and up on to her starboard bow, 
and in so doing the " Brazilian " came with her port quarter into
the starboard bow of the " Campanil " and did her considerable 
~~ "Brazilia.n "then threw a heaving line on board the 
panil1" and one of the" Campa.nil's" hawsers was attached to the
line and hauled on board the " Brazilian," which passed one of her
hawsers to the 
Campanil" by means of life buoys, and when such
h.awsors had been secured between the two vessels the" Brazilian" 
II 
commenced to tow the " Campanil " for Vigo, it being at this time 
about 10.30 a.m. and Ona Island then bearing about south east by
south, and dist.ant about 15 miles. 
6. Tho " Brazilian" proceeded with the '' Campanil " in tow,
but owing to the two vessels being laden, and to the small power 
of the "Brazilian," she was only able to make very slow progress
with the '' Oampanil," and it was not until 6.80 p.m. of the said
day that the 
Brazilian" arrived at Vigo with the " Campanil,"
which then came to anchor off the town there. 
II 
6. The defendants on the day of
tenderod to the plaintifffs, and have paid into oonrt the sum of 8501. 
for the services so as aforesaid rendered to the "Campanil" and
her said caqo and freight, and offered to pay the coeta, and submit
that the ll&Dle is ample and. auflicient. 
In tho High Court of Justice. 
Division. 
[Title.] 
Reply.
1. Replg.-The plaintifffs admit the fl.l'Bt and second articles of the 
answer, and they admit that the "Brazilian'' came into collision
with the "Campa.nil," and caused sli~ht damage to the "Cam.
panil," but save as aforesaid thoy join 188ue upon the statement of 
defense. 
No.~. 
T,'Uf"U' to Land. 
Writ issued 8rd August, 1876. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and E.F., defendant.
_ Statement oj Claim. 
187. No. 
1. Claim.-Tbe plaintifff was on the 5th Ma.rch, 1876, and still i8 
the owner and occupier of a farm called Highfield Farm, in the
pariah of and county of 
2, A private road, known u Highfield Lane, runs through a 
II 
Cam
portion of the plaintifff's farm. It is bounded upon both aides by
fields of the plaintifff's, and is separated therefrom by 11, hedge and
ditch. 
3. For a long time prior to the 5th March, 1876, the defena&nt
had wrongfully claimed to 1188 the said road for bis horses and 
oarriage8 on the allepd ground that the same was a public high
way, and the -plaintifff bad frequently warned him that the same
waa not a public highway, but the plaintifff's private road, and that 
the defendant must not so use it. 
4. On the 5th March, 1876. the defendant came with a. cart and
hone, and a large number of servanta and workmen, and forcibly
used the road, and broke down and removed a gate which the 
plaintifff bad caused to be placed across the aame.
6. The defendant and his servants and workmen on the l!l&Dle 
occasion pulled down and damaged the plaintifff'& hedge and ditch
upon each aide of the road, and went upon the plaintifff's field 
beyond the hedge and ditch, and injured the crops there growing,
and dug up and injured the soil of the road; and in any ease the 
acta mentioned in this paragraph were wholly nnnece11S&ry for the
assertion of the defendant's alleged right to use, or the user of the
said road aa a highway. 
Tho plaintifff claims :
1. Damages for the wrongs complained of.
2. An injunction restraining the defendant from any repetition 
of any of the acts complained of.
3. Such further relief as the nature of the oase may require. 
[Title.]
&auJmml of Defence. 
L Dtf~.-The defendant 1&ys that the road was and is a
public highway for horses and carriages; and a few days before 
the 6th March, 1876, the plaintifff wron~ully erected the gate
aerothe road for the purpose of obstructing and preventing, and
it did obstruct and prevent the uee of the road as a highway. And
the defendant on the said 6th March, 1876, caused the l&id gate to 
be removed, in order to enable him lawfully t.o use the roadl>y his 
horses and carriages as a highway. 
2. The defendant denies the allegations of the fifth paragraph of
the statement of claim, and says that neither he nor any of his 
workmen or servants did any act, or used any violen".e other than 
was neoeesary to enable the plaintifff lawfully to use the highway.
[Title.] 
No. 28.
Form of Demurrer. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division 
Reply. 
&ply.-The plaiDtiff joins isaue upon the defendant'1tatement
of defense. 
to 
In the High Oonrt of J ustlce.
DiYiaion. 
A.B.v.C.D.
Enter for the argument the demurrer of 
APPENDIX D. 
FORMS OF JUDOXElff. 
1. De /aeut of Appea~ and Defence in Caof Li(Juidaud DtffUWl. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plain~, and O.D. and E.F., defendants.
80th NoYember, 1876. 
The defendants [or the defendant C.D.] pot having appeared to 
the writ of summons herein [or not bing ddi~ any nOU'IMllt of
dt/~1, it is this day adjudged that the plaintifff recover agaiut 
the said defendant l.; and coets, to be lued. 
2. Judgment in dtfauli of Appearance in Act.ioRfor Recor,try of Lawl. 
80th November, 1876,
No appearance having been entered to the writ of summons 
herein, it is this day adjudged that the plaintifff recover po88818ion
of the land in the said writ mentioned. 
8. Judgment in default of AppMrantt and Defence aflh AutMnfflt o/ 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
A.B. v. C.D. 
The defendant [plaintifff J demurs to tho [plaintUrs statement. oI 
oomplaint or defendant's stawment of defense, or of set-oft', or of
counterclaim], [or to so much of the plaintifff's statement of com. 
plaint 88 claims . . . . . or as allegce aa a breach of contract
the matters mentioned in paragraph 17, or cu tM camay be]. and
says that the same is bad in law on the ground that [~ .rate rr 
ground of demurrer], and on other grounds, sufficient in law &o
sustain thia demurrer. 
No. 29. 
Memoraradum of Entry of Dtmtlrrtt- for Argume,tL 
LTitle, &o.] 
X.Y., 
1874. B. No. 
Solicitor for the pl&intiff [or, (j'c.] 
1876. B. No. 
Damogt$,
1876. B. No. 
Between A.B. and C.D., plaintifffs, and E.F. and G.H., defendant,,.
80tb November, 1876, 
The defendants not having appeared to the writ of summons
herein [ or nol lum"!J ddiriertd a ltatnnent of <kjmce ], and a writ of
inquiry, dated , 1876, having been i881led directed 
to the sheriff of , to U8MS the damages which the
plaintifff waa ent.Uled to recover, and the said sheriff having by his 
return dated the , 1876, returned that the 11&id
damages have been a88eUed at l., it is adjudged 
Lhat the plaintifff recover L, and coeta to be taxed. 
. Judt.,mmt at Trial by Judtfl widwul (I Jury. 
Division. 
5. Judgment qfter Trial by a Jury. 
[Title, &c. J 
18
[ Year, ktto-, a,ad numl,er. J 
day of 
[lj i11 Chancery Dinaiora, name of Judye.l
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., E.P., and G.B., defendants.
Thia action coming on for trial [the day of 
aud] this day, before in the presence of counsel for the
plaintifff and the defendants [ m, if ,ome of the <kfendant, do ,wt 
appear, for the plaintifff and the dolendant C.D., no one appearing
for the defendants E.F. and G.H .. although they were duly served 
with notice of trial as by the affidavit of filed the
day of appears,] upon hearing the probate of 
the will of , tho answers of the defendants C.D.,
E.F., and G.H., to interrogatories, the admission in writing, dated 
and signed by [Hr. the solicitor for] the
plaintifff .A..B. and by fMr. the solicitor for J the
delendaut C.D., the affidavit of flied the day
of , the affidavit of filed the day 
of , the evidence of taken 011 their oral
examination at the trial, and an exhibit marked X., being an in. 
denture dated, &o., and made between [parties], and what was
alleged by counsel on both sides: This court dutn declare, &c. 
And this court doth order and adjudge, &c. 
15th November, 1876,
The action having on the 12th and 13th November, 1876, been 
tried before the Honourable Mr. Justice and a
special jury of the county of , and the jury having
found L"tate finding, as i" nffeer', Cf'rtifo-ate.l, and the BR.id Mr. 
Justice having ordered that judgment be entered for
the plaintifff' for l. and costs of suit r,,,. a, the case rnag lw]: 
Therefore it is adjudged that the plaioti/t reoovor agaill8t the
defendant l, and l. for bis Costa of suit f OI' that the 
plaintifff recover nothing against the defendant, and tbat the defendant. recover against the plaintifff l. for bis costs of
defense, or ath6 C<Ue may be]. 
30th Noveiuber, 1876.
The action having on the 27th November, 1876, been tried before 
X.Y., Bsq., an official [or special} referee; and the said X. Y.
lulving found [atate n,/,a~ of refaw'a oertiflcal~]. it ia this day
adjudged that 
30th November, 1876.
Thia day before Mr. X. of counsel for the plaintifff [ or aa 
tM casmay bf: J. moved on behalf of the said T .tate
jud!flN!!ll_ moved for], and the said Mr. X. having beon baa.id of 
counsel for and Mr. Y. of counsel for
the court adjudged 
In the High Court of J ustice,
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., and others defendant&
S1al a writ of fari Jaciaa, directed to the shl'riff of 
to levy against C.D. tho sum of I. and
interest thereon at the rate of l, per contum per annum
from the day of [and I. costs] to . 
In the High Court of Justico.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Seal a writ of elogit directed to the 11heriff of against 
or in the county of for not paying
to A.B. the sum of I., together with Interest thereon,
Ir ..... the dn.y of [ and the sum or l.
for costs.] wit.h interest thereon at the rate of 4l. per centum per 
llDDUIU. 
6. Judg,,te,tt qft#/1' Trial before &feree.
(Title, etc.] 
7. J"'1gmffll upcm Motiota for J~
[Title, &o.] 
APPENDIX E. 
FORMS OF Pa&ClPL 
1. Yuri facuu. 
Judgment [or ordcrl dated day of 
[Taxing master's certificate, <lated day of .]
X. Y. solicitor for [parlg on whoae btJuz(f ,crit ia to U1t1e ]. 
187. B. No.
2. Eltgil.. 
Judgment (or order] dated
[Tuxiug 1111\81.er's certificate, dated 
cl .. y of
filly of 
X.Y.,
Solicitor for 
1876. B. No. 
18
18 .] 
In the High Court of J uatice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C,D. and others, defendants.
Se"l a wrH of renditiom erpona, directed to the sheriff of 
to sell the goods and of C.D. taken under a writ of jieri 
Jacia& in this action tested day of X.Y., 
5. &quutl'a,-i Faciaa de Bonia Eccluuuticu.
187. B. No. 
Io the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Seal a writ of aequatmri f aciaa directed to tho Lord Bishop of 
aga. inat C.D. for not paying to A.B. the 
Rum of l. 
8. V enditioni Ezpona.,. 
4. Pieri Fa<."'W de Boni.a Eccluiasticu.
187. B. No. 
In the High Court of 1 nstice,
Divi,ion. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D., defendanL
Seal a writ of .ffen Jacia.a de bonu eccJuiaaticia directed to the 
bishop [or archbishop, as tl,,e ~maybe] of to levy against
C.D. the aum of l. 
Judgment [ 01order] dated day of
[Taxing m.aater's certificate, dated day of ]: 
6. lVl'it of &quuil'Ulwn. 
Ju the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
X.Y.,
Solicitor for 
Between A.B., pl11intiff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Seal a writ of sequestration against C.D. for not 
at the suit of A.B. directed to [11mnu oj C1Jmmununua J. 
Order dated day of 
7. Writ o.f Poueui1111. 
187 . B. No.
In the High Court of J ustiee, 
Division.
Betwcon A.B., pliuntiff, and C.JJ. and others, dofondntd. 
Seal a writ of possession directed to tho sheriff of . to
deliver possession to A.B. of 
Judgment dated day of 
Solicitor for 
187. B. No. 
187. B. No. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants. Seal a writ of delivery directed to the sheriff of to make 
delivery to A.B. of 
9. Writ of Attacmnent. 
In the High Court of J uetioe.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Seal in pursuance of order dated day of &n attachment 
directed to the sheriff of against C.D. for not deli'vering
to A.B. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
187. B. No.
8. Writ of Ddir,e,71. 
APPENDIX F. 
FORMS OF WRIT. 
1. W1-it of /<~,-i Facuu. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendant.a.
Victoria, by the grace of God of the United Kingdom of Orea.t 
Britain and Ireland, Qutlen, Defender of the Faith. 
187. B. No. 
187. B. No. 
To the sheriff of greeting.
We command you that of the goods and chattels of C.D. in your 
bailiwick you cause to be made the sum of l. and also intereet
thereon a.t the rate of l. por centum per annum from tho
d1&y of , which said sum of money aud interest were 
lately before us in our High Court of Justice in a certain action
[ or certain actions, as the casm,ag ~ J wherein A B. is plaintifff and
C.D. and others are defendanta [ OI' m a certain matter there de
pending intituled " In thfl matter of E.F./' <U tl&e casmag be J by 
a judgment [or order, cu tM. O<Ue mag bel of our said court, bearing
date the day of adjudged [or ordered, aa tM Mid may be] lo 
be paid by the said c.n. to A.B., together with certain costs in tho
said judgment [or order, <U the. caa, may bel mentioned, and with
costs have been taxed and Allowed by one of the taxing masters of
our said court at the sum of l. as appears by tho certificate of the 
eaid taxing master, dated the day of . And that of the goods 
and chattels of the said C.D. in your bailiwick you further cause
to be made the said sum of l. [oosts], together with interest
thereon at the rate of 41. per oentum per annum from the day of 
,t and that you havo that money and iuterest before ua in 
our said court immedillte)y after the eJ:PCution hereof to be paid to
the said A.B. in pursuance of the said j11.dgment [or order, a., fM 
CCl6e may be} And in what manner J.OU shall have executed this
our writ make appear to us in our said court immediately after the
execution thereof. And have there then this writ, 
Witneea, &o. 
In the High Court of Justice. 
2. Writ of Elegit. 
Divisfon.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendant.a.
Victoria. by the grace of Ood of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland Queen, Defender of the Faith.
To the sheriff of greeting. 
187. B. No. 
Whereas lately in our High Court of Justice fo a. certain action 
[ IW certain actions, cu the casmag bt] there dependin~, wherein
A.B. is plaintifff and C.D. and others are defendants r or m a certain
matter there depending, intituled "In the matter o1 E.F.," tu tb
ca1e ,nay be] by a judgment [or order, n, the ca,e may be] of our said
court made in the said action [ or matter, a., the case may be 1, and 
bearing date the day of , it was adjudged [01ordered, 
a, the case maybt] that C.D. should pllyunto A.B. tbe sum of l,
together with interest thereon after the rate of l, per centum 
per annum from the day of , together also with certain
costs as in the ea.id judgment [or order, tU IM ccuemay be] mentioned, 
and which C06ts have been taxed and a.Uowed by one of
the taxing ma.stars of our said court, at the sum of l. as appears 
b7 the certificate of the said taxing master, dated the day
o . And afterwards the said A.B. came into our said court, 
and according to the statute in such case made and provided,
chose to be delivered to him all the goods and chattels of the said
C.D. in your bailiwick, except bis oxen and beasts of the plough, and 
also all such lands, tenements, rectories, tithes, rents, and hereditaments, including lands and hereditaments of copyhold and custo
mary tenure, in your baiJiwick as the said C.D., or an; one in trust
for him, was seised or possessed of on the day o in the 
year of our Lord , or at any time afterwards,
or over which the sa.id C.D. on the said day 
of or at any time afterwards bad any disposing power
which he might without the assent of any other person exercise 
for hie own benefit, to bo)cl to him the snid goods and chattels as
his proper goods and chattels, and to bold tho said lauds, tenements, rectories, tithes, rents, and horeditaments respectively, ac, 
cording to the nature and tenure thereof, to him and to his assigns,
until the said two several sums nf I. and I, together with
interest upon the said sum of l., at the rate of - I. per cen- 
tum per annum from the said day of and on the
said sum of l. (costs) at the rate of 41. percentum per annum,
from the day of shall have been levied. There. 
fore we command you that without delay you cause to be delivered
to the said A.B. by a reasonable price and extent, all the goods and 
chattels of the said C.D. in your bailiwick, except bis oxen and
beasts of the plough, and also all such lands and tenements, rec
tories, tithes, rents, and hereditaments, including lands and hereditaments of copyhold or customary tenure, in your bl\iliwick u the
said C.D., or any person or persons in trust for him was or were
seised or possessed of on the said day of or at 
any time afterwards, or over which the said O.D., on the said
day of , or at any time aft~rwards had any 
disposing; power which he might without the ueent of any other
person, exercise for his own benefit, to hold the said goods and 
chattels to the said A.B., aa his proper goods and chattels, and also
to hold the said lands, tenements, rectories, tithes, rent.a, and here
ditaments respectively, according to the nature and tenure theraof,
to him and to his assigns until the said two several sums of I.
and l; together with interest u aforesaid, shall have been 
levied. And in what manner you shall have executed this our
writ make appear to us in our Court aforesaid, immediately after
the n:ecution thereof, under your seals, and the seals of those by 
whoso oath you shall make the l&id extent and apprt.iaement.
And have there then this writ. 
Witness ourselvee at Westminster, &c. 
18i 5. l3. No Writ nj Vendmoni &po,uu. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Victoria, by the grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith. 
To the sheriff of greeting.
Whereas by our writ we lately commanded you that of the 
goods and chattels of C.D. [~re reciu the fen facin, to f./fe end].
And on the dny of you returned to 011 in
the division of our High Court of Justice afore6o.itl,
that hy virtue of the said writ to you directed, you had taken goods 
nnd chattels of the BRid C.D. to the value of the moner and interest
Aforesaid, which Mid goods and chattels remained m your hands
unsold for want of buyers. Therefore, we being desirous that the
said A.B. should be i;atisfied, his money and interest aforesaid, 
command you that you expose to sale and sell, or cause to be sold,
the goods and chattels of the said C.D., by you in form aforesaid
taken, sud every part thereof, for the best price that can be gotten 
for tho same, and have the money arising from such sale before us
in our said court of justice immediately after the execution hereof,
to be paid to the said A.B. And have there then- this writ. 
Witness ourself at Westminster, the day of
in the year of our reign. 
4. Writ of Fieri Fn,iru de BonlEcclesiastiei, 
In the High Court or ,J us tic".
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Victoria., by the grace of Grnl of the United Kingdom of Gre"t 
Britain and Ireland, QuMn, Defender or the Faith: 'I'o.jhe Hight
Reverend Father in God_[Johnl by Divine permission Lord Bishop 
of i;rrPeting: We command yon, thllt of the ecclesiastical
goods of C.D., clerk in your diocese, you cause to be made l,
which lately before us in our High Court of Justice in R cer~in
action r or certain actions, a, t/v, case ma:, be] wherein A.B. is plain
tiff Roa C.D. is defendant r or in a certain matter there depending,
iutituled, "In the matter of EF.," a., the case 1111,.'I be], by a judg
ment [or order, <Uthe C<Ue mag be] of our said court bearing date
the day of , was adjudged ~or ordered, <U tlae ca.fe 
may be J to be paid by the said C.D. to the stud A.B., together with
interest on the said sum of at the rate of Z.. per
eentum per annum, from the day of and have 
Lhat money, to~ether with such interest as aforesaid, before us in
our said court immediately after the execution hereof, to bo ren, 
dered to the said A.B., for that onr sheriff of returned
to us in our said court on [m"aL a day now psst "] 
that the said C.D. had not any goods or chattels or any lay fee in
his bailiwick whereof he could cause to be made the said l. 
and interest Rforesaid or any part thereof, and that the 11aid C.D.
was a beneficed clerk (to wit) rector of rectory [or vicar of the 
vicar"ge] and parish church of , in the said
sheriff's county, and within your diocese [ns in the rt>Jurn], and 
in what manner you shall have executed this our writ make af.pen.r
to us in our said court immediately after the execution hereo , and 
have yon there then this writ. Witnoss ourself at Westminster,
the day of , in tho year of our Lord 
5. W,-it o/ Fieri Facias tr, the Ar<:hbWwp de bmiu Ecck.,irutici8 
during the rruxmcy of a Biilv,p'8 See.
Victoria r &c. fl& in the p1'l'ceding form 1 : To the Right Reverend 
Fsthor in God [John] hy Divine P'rovid'enr.e Lord Archbishop of
Canterbury, Primate of all England and MPtropolitan, groeting:
\Vo oommand you, thnt or the ecclesiastical goods nf c.n., clerk in
the diocese of which is within the province
of Canterbury, R.8 ordinary of thd church, Urn episcopal see of 
6. Writ of Seq1V'&fra1i Faeias de Bonis Ecclesiasticis, 
In the High Court of Justlco, 
now being vacant, you cause to be made 
[.tc., canclude as in the prt>cedi,.gfurm~. 
Division.
Between A.B., plaintifff, and C.D. and others, defendants, 
1875. B. No. 
l~i5. B. No. 
Victoria, by the grace of God of the United Kingdom of Grr at 
Britain a1.1d Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith : To the Right
Reverend Father in God [John] by Divine permission Lord Bishop 
of greetmg: Whereas we lately commanded our
sheriff of that he should omit not by reason of 
any liberty of his countJ, but that he should enter the same, and
cause [to be made, if oJler tM return to a jie,'i facias, or delivered, 
if ofter the return t9 an ekgit, 4'c., a11d in either ccue recite tM furnu,
writ.] And whereupon our said sheriff of on 
[or" at a day psst "l returned to us in the
division of our said Court of Justice, that the said 
C.D. was a beneficed clerk; that is to say, rector of the rectory [or 
vicar of the vicarage] and parish church of in
the county of , and within your diocese, and that
he had not any goods or chattels, or any lay fee in his bailiwick 
[here jolwt0 the words of the alw-i.1/'s retum.J Therefore, we command you that you enter into the said rectory [or vicarage] and
parish church of , and take and sequester the same
into your poeseseion, and that you hold the same in your posseesion,
until you shall have levied the said l. and interest 
aforesaid, of the rents, tithes, rentcharges in lieu of tit.hes, oblations,
obventions, fruits, issues, and profits thereof, and other ecclesi
astical goods in/our diocese of and belonging to the said rectory 
[ or vicarage J an parish church of and to the said
C.D. as rector [or vicar] thereof to be rendered to the said A.B.,
and what you shall do tlierein make app<'ar to us in our said court 
immediately after the execution hereof, and have you there then
&his writ. Witness ourself at Westminster, the day
of in the year of our Lord 
7. Writ of Pouwion, 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B.1 plaiJltiff, and C.D. and others, defendants.
Victoria, to tho sheriff of , greeting : 
Whereas lately in our Iligh Court of Justice, by a judgment of the
division of the same court [A.B. recovered] 
or [E.F. was ordered to deliver to A.B.J possession of all that.
with the appurtenances in your bailiwick: 
Therefore, we command you that you omit not by reason of any
liberty of your county, but that you enter the same, and without 
delay you cause tho said A.B. to have possession of the said land
and premises with the appurtenances. And in what manner you 
have executed this our writ make ap~r to the [udges of the
division of our High Court of Justice imme
diately after the execution hereof, and have you there then this
wriL Witness, &c. 
8. Writ of Deli~ry. 
In tho High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B.1 plainLitI, and C.D. and others, dt:lendants. 
187 . B. No. 
187. B. No. 
Victoria, by the grace of God, of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland Qoren, Defender of the Faith, to the sheriff of 
grPeting: We command you, that without delay you canBe the
following chattels, 1h11t i11 to say hn't! enumerate IM chatteu reeocered 
h,'/ rhjudf/,f'l.t!lll for tM retnruf 1rhicl,, t~culimi htu been ordered to
issuJ, to be returned to A.lJ, which the said A.II lately in our 
recovered against C.D. L",. C.D. wai,i
ordered to deliver to the said A.B.J in an action in tho 
division of our said court. And WA further command you, that if
the said chattels cannot be found in your bailiwick, you distrain
the said C.D. by all his lands and chattels in your bailiwick, so 
that neither the said C.D. nor any one for him do lay hands on the
same until the said C.D. render to the said A.B. the said chattels;
and in what manner you shall have executed this our writ make
appear to the judges of the division of our High 
Court of Justice, immediately after the execution hereof, and have
you there t.hen t.his writ. Witness, &c. 
Tho like, but iestead of a distro88 until t.he chattel is returned,
commanding the sheriff to levy on dafendanfs goods tho &s&e88('d
value of it. 
[ Proceed: cu in tM prec~ding Jorm until IM , and IM11 thiu : ] And
we further command you, that if the said chattels cannot be found 
in your bailiwick, of the goods and chattels of the said C.D. in your
bailiwick you cause to be made l: [the aueutd fKllue of 
the chattels J, and in what manner you shall b&ve excuted this our
writ make appear to the judges of the division of 
our High Court of Justice at Westminster, immediately after the
execution hereof, and have you there then this wri~ Witnet;a, &c. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintl.tf, and C .D. and others, defendants. 
Victoria, &c. 
187. B.No.
9. Writ of Attachment. 
To the sheriff of greeting.
Wo command you to attach C.D. so as to have him before us in 
the division of our High Court of Justice where.
soever the said court shall then ~ there to answer to us, as well
touching a contempt which be it is alleged hath committed against
us, as also such other matters as shall be then and th-re laid to his 
chargot and further to perform a.ud abide such order as our said
court shall make in this behalf, and hereof f&il not., and bring this 
writ with you. Witness, &c. 
187. B. No.
10. Writ of Seq~1trati<n,. 
In the High Court of Justice.
Division. 
Between A.B., plaintiff, and C.D. and others, defendants. 
Victoria &c.
To L na,Tld ,if t1ot la, tlunjour Cvmmiufoner,] greeting. 
Whereas lately in the division of our High Court
of Justice in a certain action there depending, wherein .t.B. ia
plaintifff, and C.D. and others are defendants [or, in a certain 
matter then depending, intitulecl '' In the matter of E.F.,"' m t4e 
case may be] by a judgment. [or order, a, tM case mag be] of our said
court made in the said action [or matterl, and bearing date the 
day of 187 , 1' waa ordered that
the said C.D. should [pay into coon to the credit of the said 
action the sum of L, or, a, the cau mag be]. Know
ye, thereforee, that wo, in confidence of your prudence and fidelity, 
have given, and by these presents do give to you, or any three or
two of you, full power and authority to enter upon all the 
messuages, lands, tenements, and real estate whatsoever of the
said C.JJ., and to collect, receive, and sequester into your hands
not only all the rents and profits of his said messuages, landa, 
tenements, and real estate, but also all his goods, chattels, and
personal estates whatsoever; and thereforee we command you, any 
three or two of you, that lou do at certain proper and convenient
days and hours, go to an enter upon all the messoages, lands, 
tenements, and real est.ates of the said C.D., and that you do collect,
~ke, and get into your hands not only the rents and profits
:,f his said real estate, but also all his goods, chattels, and personal 
estate, and detain and keep the same under sequestration in 7our
hands until the said C.D. shall [.pay into court to the credit o the 
said action the sum of l. or, a, tM ca,e may bd,] clear
his contempt, and our said court make other order to the contrary. 
Witness, &o. 
-- 
APPENDIX. 
ADDITIONAL RULES OF COURT .(1) 
0BDJ:B I. 
Wss:ai: any written depoeition ofawitnee1hu been flledforUN
on a trial, 1u"bh deposition shall be prin~, 1111le11 otherwile
ordered. 
0BDU Il.
The Rolea of Court u to printing depo,itions and aftlda'rite to 
be oaed on a trial &ball not applr to depositionand affidavit.
which baTe previoo1ly been oaed upon any prooeeding without
baTIDj' been printed. 
ORDBB Ill.
Otlaer aflidarite than thoae required to be printed by Order 
XXXVIII., Rule 6, in the eohedule to the Supreme Court of Judi.
oature Act, 1875, may be printed if &11 the partiea int.ereated 0011- 
aent thereto, or the court or judge so order. 
0BDBB IV.
The 3rd Role of the Order XXXIV., in the &rat aohedule to the 
Supreme Court of Judicature Act, 1875, 1hall apply to a peoial
oue, pursuant to the Act of 13 & H Viot. o. 35. 
0RDJ:B V.
Where, f1ll'lluant to rulea of ooort, any pleading, apeci&l cue. 
petition o right, deposition, or &ftidavit 18 to be printed, and
where any printed or other office copy thereof ia to be ilaken, 
the following regol&tions ,ball be obsened:
1. The p&rty on whose behalf the deposition or &flldavit i1 
ta.ken and filed is to print the 1ame in the manuer provided
by Role 2 of Order L VJ. in the flrst 1ohedule to the Supreme
Court of Jodie&ture Act, 1875. 
2. To Hable the p&rty printing to print any depoaition, the
officer with whom it is filed shall on demand deliver to such
party & oopy written on draft p&per on one aide only. 
3. The p&rty printing shall, ob delll&lld in writinJ, furnish to 
any other party or his aolioitor any number of pnnted oopiee,
not e:ir:oeediog ten, upon p&yment thereforee at the rate of Id. 
per folio for one copy, and i<J. per folio for every other oopy.
4i. The solicitor of the party printing shall givo oredit for the 
whole &mount P.&yable by a.ny other party for printed oopiee.
5. The Darty entitled to be furnished with a print shall not be 
allowed &ny ohargA in reepect of a written oopy, unlese the
court or judge ehall otherwise direct. 
6. The party by or on who1e behalf any deposition, aflirluit, or
Cf'rtificate is filed, eball le&vo & oopy with the officer with 
whom the aame is filed, who sball e:ir:amine it with the original 
and mark it aa an office copy ; auch copJ aball be a copJ
frinted aa above provided where such depoaition or affidavit 
18 to be printed.
7. The party or solicitor who baa ta.'ken any l)rinted or written 
office copy of any deposition or affidavit 1a to produoe the
eame upon e'fery proceeding to which the aame relates. 
8. Where any P&l'9' ia entitled to a copy of any depoeition,
affidavit, proceeding, or document filed or prepared by or on
behalf of another party, which ia not required to be printed, 
1uch copy shall be furniehed by the party by or on whoae
behalf the aame baa been filed or prepared. 
9. The party requirinJ &DJ euch copy, or hill solicitor, is to
make a written application to the party by whom the copy w 
to be furnished, or hia solicitor, with an undertaking to pay
the proper chargea, and thereupon 1uch copy ia to be made 
and ready to be delivered at the expiration of twenty.four
houri after the receipt of auoh reque1t and undertaking, or
within such other time aa the court or judge maJ in any oaae
direot, and ia to be furnished aooordingly upon demand and
payment of the proper chargea. 
10. In the case of an ef/0 parte application for an injunction or
writ of ,ie ezeat re~t the ~rty making auoh aP.plication ia 
to furniah copies of Ule a.ffldavite upon which 1t ie panted
upon payment of the proper ohargea immediately upon the 
reoeipt of such written request and undertaking u aforesaid,
or within auch time aa may be specified in 1noh request, or
may have been directed by the court. 
11. It shall be stated in a note at the foot of every affidavit filed
on whoae behalf it ia so filed, and auoh note shall be printed 
on every printed copy of an affidavit or set of affidavits, ud
copied on every offloe copy and copy furnished to a party. 
12. The name and addre11 of the part_y or solicitor by whom
&DJ copy is furnished is to be indoned thereon in like manner 
ae upon prooeedinge in court, and such party or aolicitor i1
to be answerable for the eame being a true oop7 of the 
original, or of au office copy of the original, of which it purporta to be a copy, ae the caae may be. 
13. The folioa of all printed and written office oopiea, and oopiea
delivered or furniahed to a party, shall be numbered eon,
1ecutively in the margin thereof, and auch written oopie1
shall be written in a neat and legible manner on the eame 
paper as in the oaee of printed copies.
H. In e&!!e any party or aolioitor who aball be required to 
furnish any aach written copy as aforeaaid ahall either ref nee
or, for twenty.four aoura from the time when the application
for auch copy baa been made, neglect to farniah the same,
the person by whom euoh application shall be made ahaH be 
at liberty to prooare an office copy from the office in which
the original ab"ll haTe been filed, and in auoh oaae no eoeta
shall be due or payable to the solicitor so making default in
respect of the copy or oopiea so applied for. . 
15. Where, by any erder of the court (whether of appeal or
otherwise), or a judge, any pleading, evidence, or other doen- 
3 
m8Dt ia ordered to be print.ad, the oourt or judge may order
the expenee of printing to be bome and allowed, and printed 
oopies to be furnished by and to suoh parties and upon noh
terms as ahall be thou&'ht tit. 
0BDEB VI. 
The following regulations as to oosta of proceedings in the 
Supreme Court of Judicature ahall regulate suoh ooeta from the
commenoement of the Supreme Court of Judicature Aota, 1873 
and 1875:
1. Solicitors shall be entitled to char,re and be allowed the 
fees set forth in the column headed "lower aoale " in the
schedule hereto- 
In all a.otiona for purpoeea to which any of the fol'Dls of indorae.
ment of claims on writs of summons in sect.a. 2, 4, and 7, in Pan
II. of Appendix A.1 referred to in the 3rd rule of Order IIL 
in the 1ohednle to the Supreme Court of Judicature Act, 1875.
or other similar forms, are applicable (exoept u after provided
in actions for injunctions); 
In all ca.ueeB and matteni b7 the Mth aeotion of the Supreme
Court of Judicatun, Act, 1873, aBliped to the Queen', Bench 
di rision of the oourt;
In all causes and matteni by the Mth aeot. of. the laid Acst 
auigned to the Common Pleas Diviaion of the Court;
In all caues and matters by the Mth section of the laid Aot 
uaigned to the Exchequer Division of the Court ;
In all oames and matters by the Mth eeotion of the laid Acst 
assigned to the Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Diriaion of
lhe Court; 
And also in oauaee and matters b7 the Mth eeotion of the laid
Act assigned to the Ohanoer., Divialon of the oourt in the following ouee (that ia to say): 
1. By creditors, legatees (whether epeoilc, pecuniary, or reef.
duary), devieees (whether in trust or otherwiae), heira-atlaw or next.of-kin, in which the pereonal or real or pereonal 
and reeJ eat.ate for or apmat or in respect of which or for &11 
account or administration of which the demand may be made
shall be under the amount or value of lOOOl. 
2. For the execution of trueta or appointment of new trustee.
in which the trust estate or fund lhall be under the amollllt
or value of lOOOZ. 
S. For diaaolution of partnership or the taking of ,-rtnerahip or an7 other account. in which the partnership uaeta
or the estate or fund ,ball be under the amo11J1t or value of
lOOOl. 
~ For foreoloeure or redemption, or for enforcing ~ oh&rp
or lien in which the mortae whereon the 1uit i1 fo11J1ded1 
or the charKe or lien sought-to be enforced, ahall be under
the amount or value of lOOOI. 
5. And for apeoi6o performanoe in whioh the purohue.money or
consideration ehall be under the amount or value of lOOOl. 
6. In all proceedings under the Truateee Belief Acta, or under
the Truetees Acta, or under any of such Acta, in which the 
truat eat.ate or fund to which the prooeeding relate. 1hall be
under the amount or value of lOOOl. 
7. In all prooeedinp relating to the pardianahip or maintenance of infant.a, in whioh the yroperty of the infant 1hall 
be under the amount or value o lOOOt
8. In all prooeedinp by original 1peoial oue, and in all pro
oeeding11 relating to funds carried to 1eparate aooounta, and
in all prooeedinge under any railway or private Act of ParU... 
ment, or under' an7_ other 1t.atutory or 1ummary juriadiotioa,
and generally in all other cues where the estate or fund to 
be dealt with shall be under the amount or value of lOOOl.
2. Solicitors 1hall be entitled to charge and be allowed the feee 
1et forth in the oolumn headed " higher ecale " in the 1chedule
hereto; in all Mmons for ~pecial in1unctions to restrain the com
mission or continuance of waate, nU18ADoe&, breaohea of oovena.nt, 
injuriee to property, and infringement of right., euemente,
patent.a, and copyrights, and other similar oaeu where the pro
curing such injunction ia the principal relief sought to be
obtained, and in all oue11 other than thoee to which the fees in 
the column headed " lower aoale" are hereby made applioa.ble.
S. Notwithstanding these rules, the court or judge may in any 
cue direct the f eea eet forth in either of the said two oolumn11 to 
be allowed to all or either or any of the parties, and as to all
or any part of the ooete. 
4.. The provisions of Order LXm., in the fl.rat aohedule to the
Supreme Court of J udioature A.ct, 1875, ehall apply to theae rule1. 
The SCHEDULE above referred to: 
J.n order or rule herein referred t.o bJ number ah&ll mean the order
or rule 110 numbered in the ~ mohednle to the Sapreme Coun 
of Judicature A.ct, 1875.
Lower Higher 
Wain, SlTJDfosa:u, .urn W.a.~. Soale. 8o&le.
1.d. 1.d. 
Writ of 111DUDonfor the oommenoement of any
action ............ ........... ............. .................... 
.l.nd for endoraement of claim, If special ..
Concurrent writ of sum111.ona .. 
Renewal or a writ of aummen11 .
Notice or a writ for aerrioe in lieu of writ oat of 
juriadiotlon
Writ of inquiry .. 
Writ of mafldGmu. or iDjanotion . 
WJ:~l~:~~;;iWiji;,;;~;;;~~~::::::::: 
And if more than four folioa, for ach folio be7ond 
four . 
Writs or writs of aubpa,na ad t.atiftcandum for any
number of peraona not esoeectinr three, and tbe 
111UDe for eHry additional numl>er not uceeding 
three ..
Writ of dilltrinpe, puraaaat to atatnte 5 Viut. e, 8 
Writ of ueoation, or other writ to enforce any 
.Jid"r1:,~' :-o:c1~,~~1~uoa; .. r;;r .. eaoh -;~1io 
beyond four .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. . . . .. .. . . .. . . . .. . 0 
0 8 8
0 5 0 
0 6 8
0 6 8 
0 , 0
1 1 0 
0 10 0
0 1 , 
0 6 8 
0 1 , 
0 8 8
0 18 , 
0 7 0 
O lS ,
0 & 0 
0 6 8
0 6 8 
0 5 0
1 1 0
1 1 0 
0 1 '
0 8 8 
0 1 , 
0 6 8
0 18 , 
010 0
0 1 , 
Procorinr a writ of esecution or notice to the
berilf, marked with a seal of renewal .. 
Notice thereof to eer,e on heritf "'" 
ADJ writ not iDoloded io the abo,e .
Theee fe911 include all indonement. and oopi-. 
or pnecipee, for the officer ll8&1iq them, and
attendance to 1-ue or aeal, but not the court fe911. 
8UJDJDonto att.end :,tJ:;-- chamben .. 
o~x~,:1-:1:. .. ~~'"'"'""'"~~~ .. ~~~~:.~~~ 
Cop7 for the judge. when req111.t"8d., .. 
Or per folio . 
OrisiDal summou for prooeedinp in chamben in
the Cbanoery cli'ri8ion . 
bdatteadin,toget ameud duplicate eealed. and
at the proper offloe to file duplicat.e and get oopiee 
for llenioe tamped .
Cop7 for the judge - - . 
~x:r:::.!0 ..;;;;;;r~pi;";;;;~Bthruie'"ofthe 
&th of the Consolidated General Orden of the
Court of ChaDoery . 
8DTICB8, Noncu, AlfD Dllx.urD8, 
Senice of an7 writ, IJWDIDOU. warr&Dt, interrop.
toriee, petition, order, notice, or demand on a 
part1 who bu not entered an appearauoe, and it
If :!...~i:t~t!:i: ~~e ~:.~;;{1~;;,;; 
the neareat plaoe of bueinea. or office of the moh
oitor eerTing the -.me, for each mile beyond
uch two milea therefrom . 
Where in consequence of the distance of the partJ 
to be sened. it iproper to effect ucb service
through an agent (other than the London agent), 
for oorrespondenoe in addition .
Where more than one attendance i8 DeoeM&l'J to 
effect Hl'Tioe, or to ground an applioation for
ublltituted 118r1'ioe. such further allowanoe ma7 
be made u the axing officer ball think flt ......
For senice out of the j u.riadiotion auch allowance 18 
to be made u the ta.xing officer shall think At. 
Service where an appearance bu been ent.ered on the
solicit.or or part7 .. 
Or if authorued to be Nned b1 post .
Where &DJ writ, order, aod notice, or an1 two of 
them, have to be se"ed together, one fee on17 
for llenioe ill to be allowed.
In addition to the abo,.. f888, the following 
allowances are to be made:.Aa to write, if exceeding two folios, for oop7 for 
nr,ioe, per folio be7ond 1uch two .
.Aa to summons to attend at the Jud191' Ch&mben, 
o:~~000~~-~ .. ~-~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
..A.1 to notice in prooeeding9 to wind up oompaol,
forpreparinr or fllUnr up each notice to credit.on 
to attend and reoeive debte, and to oootribu.
t()rieto 9ettle li8t of oontributoriM . 
Lower HighScale. 
0 6 0
0 5 0 
0 1 0
0 1 0 
0 7 0 0 7 0 
O I 6
O l 8 
0 0 ,
O l O 
0 0 ' 
0 1 0 
Sc,ale. 
s.d.
~ d.
0 6 B
0 6 8 
0 , 0
0 5 0
0 7 0
0 10 0 
0
a
0 0 I 8
0 I
8
l
1 0 
0
I
0 0 2
0
0 0 
013 
0 18 
' 
' 
O I I
0 1 I 
0 0 , 
8 
' 
1
1 0 
O lS 
O I 0
O I 0
0 0 
0 I 8
0
I 8 
' 
' 
I O
0 ' 
Lower
Bish
.l.nd tor preparing or llllJJr up each notice to oon~ .
.. d ~ .. d.
tribatoriee to be aered with a seneral order for 
Saale.
8c&le. 
0
1
1
0
a call, or an order for pa1ment ot a aalJ ............
0 0
Aad for drawing notioe to be 1ened on contributor- 
0
1 0 0
1 0
iea orediton of a meeting, per folio ..................
For eaoh oop1ofthelaat-mentioned not.toe to NrTe. 
0
0 0
0 ..
per folio .................................................... 
For preparing or lllling up for Nrrioe iD. u1 other
oaue or matter, -.ch not.ice to crecliton to pro,e 
ol&ima1 ud each notice tba~e may be re- 
oelYed, mpeoitJiDs the amount to received for
0
1
principal and mtereet, .uad oon.. if any ...... _ ......
0 0
1
9 
l'o~aottoetoproduoeoradm!tandoneooJJ'
0 5 0
0
7
8
U or neoeuaril7 Ions, euoh al.lowanoe u e 
::;r:u:~~ .. ~ .. ~~ .. ~~~~~~~ .. ~.! 0
0
8 0 1
.. 
And for each copy beyond the &!t. aaoh allowanoe 
:.:::tr;:1o~~ .. ~ ............ ~~~~.~-~.0
0 
For preparing notice ot motion ... ..........................
0 
!f i?.~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
j 
' 
0 0 
0 0 5
0 
0
1
0 0
1 0
0 1 0
0 1
0 
For preparing an~ neoea&l'J' or pror, notice, not
1
0
otherwise proY ded for and deman ..................... 0 8
1
8 
Or if epecial, and neoeuui.ly extending three folioe,
0 for preparing 1&111e, for each folio beyond three
0
1 0
0 
.l.nd for each copy for aerrioe, per folio beyond
such three ..................................................... 0
0 
Copies for 11emoe of interrogatories and petitlooe,
and of orders with neoeaar, notice. (if &DJ) 
0
to aooompany, per foiio ....................................
0 0 
Except u otberwi.ae r,rovided, the allowanoes for
aer'rices include cop ea for aer'rioe. 
Where notioe of filing a.t!ld&lta la required, on~
one notice la to be allowed for a 11et of &11ldants
filed, or which ought to be filed together. 
In proceedinga to wind up a coml:e~ the Ullaal 
charges relatillg to printillg shall wed in lieu
of oojiee for aer'rioe, where the feee for copies 
woal exoeed the charges for printing, and amount
to more than 8. 
Where an1 appointment ii or oqht to be adjourn:i
11enioe of a notice of the adjournmat, or n 
appointment, la not to be allowed. 
APn.t.JU.lfo1:s. 
Entering any appearance ................................. ....
0
8 8 0 6
8
If entered at one time, for more than one penon, 
for oery defendant beyond the first ..................
0 0 0 i
0
ll a person alC::~ a writ or 111111UDom to 
reooYer Ian m.ita defenoe by hi.a memorandwn or appear&Doe, iD. addition to the aboYe ......
0 8 8
0
8
s 
ilf8TRUCTJ0118, 
To aue or defend ............... - .................................
0
6
8 0 18 
For 11tatement ot oom~nt ....................................
0 1S 
i
I
0
For atatement or tar statement of defenoe ..0
8
8 0 18 
J'or counter ol&1m
0 6
8 0 18 
For reply b1 pl&intUr when defendent Nta up a
counterclaim .., ................. .... ........................
0 18 
' 
' 
' 
' 
0
0 
e 0 
0 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
1
1
0 
Por npl7 or fariher repl7 in~ other H 'h7 a. d. 
pl&fnwr or other penon. with or without joiDcler
of INue _........ .. . . . . . . . .. 0 6 8 
l'or CODf..ton of defeaoe "........... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 8 8 
Por Joinder of iNa.e without other matter and for
demurrer.................................. .... ............ ... ... 0 6 8 
For apecial cue, apeclal petitlea. an1 other pleadlq (not being a IRUDDlOna), and mterroptoriN 
for uaminatiou or a putJ' or wttD... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 6 8 
To amend any pleadinc 0 8 8
For afflda"rit I.D &D8werto interroptorl-. and other 
apeciahJlldaYitll .. 0 8 8 
I~ 3~ .. i,;;;.";;r;;iaito~Jaii,e:::~~~::::~~ g 
For coUDNI to &dnae on mdence when the eri- 
dence in obief la to be t.allea on.Jq _ O 6 8 
Or not to e:1:oeed -...... 0 l8 4. 
p;r~~=t::t~~~~-~--~-~--~--~ o s e 
J'or brief on motion for a1)eQia1 iDJUDotioa . . . . . . ... .. 0 18 4, 
l'or brief OD hearing or tnal of action upon notioe
of trial rten. wliether nch trial be before a 
juqe, with or without a JU7, or before anoflloial
or peclal referee. or on trial or an INue or fact 
Lower
&.le. 
1:
: 
before a judge, coDU1UMion, or referee. or on
.....amentofdamagN 1 1 0 I I O 
For nob brief, and for brief on the hearin1 or
an appeal when wt...._ are to be uamiDed or 
Cl'ON-eu.miDed, 1111ob fee may be allowed u the 
tutnr officer hail think flt, ha Ting regard to all
the cU'01lDl8tanoe8 of the eue, u4 to other allowance, if &DJ', for attendanoe on witn .... 
and procminc endenoe.
The feea for inatructiou for brief are not to appl7 
to a hearins on further conaidentlon. 
DJU.1fIJIG Pu.&.Dmo11 ilOTBa DocuxJUlft. 
Statement of ol&lm .. 0 10 0 
~r::i~~~,-~r.~oe::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 8 : 8 
Or per folio .. . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . O 1 O 
Statement ol etenoe and OOUDter claim .. ... 0 6 0
Or S:r folio .. .. .. O 1 O 
~ x;,:i~0jot~~=~ 1:.1:::i~o1:'10-;h:~:-1:r~
demurrer, and any other/leading (not being a 
petition or 1111JDmona) an amendment. of an1
pleading . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . 0 5 0 
Or per folio..................................................... ...... O 1 O
Partioulan, breeohee, and objectiou, when re- 
quired, and one oop7 to deliTer .. O 6 0 
Or auoh amount u the tu1nar officer hail think flt, 
not uoeeding per folio . . . .. . . . . .. 0 O 8 
n more than one oop7 to be delbered, for each 
s~i!f: .... t:itc:,1;!rlcti~foriii;;.i~;.m~riti 
in anawer to lntierrogatoriea and other apeclal 
aflldaTita, llp80ial petitiou, and 1nterroptoriell, 
B=,,':!1~1ai"o~-h~sor.iii.;1aii . of ,..,~ 
O O
' 
0
1 0 
Higher
Beale. 
... d.
O l8 
011 
0 18 ... 
0 13 ... 
0 11 
1 1 0 
O l 0
0 10
0
0 1
0 
1 1 0
0 1 0 
0 10
0
0 1 0 
0 8 8
0 1 
0 0 
O l t 
' 
' 
4, 
0 8
8 
1 1 0
O ts
4, 
0 8 8
1 1 0 
0 10 0 
1 l 0 
4, 
4, 
U!leeemeDt of d&mai, aamhlation of witueNM, I I, d.
demurrer, IIJ)8Cial oue and petition before a ooun
or judge. &herilf, oommiaioner, referee, esaminer, 
or officer of the oourt, when Deoeea&l')' and proper
in addition to pleadinp, incJudiur Deoeuar,' 
and proper obeenaUons, per folio 0
Brief on application to add parti.. . . . . .. . .. 0 
Or per folio . .. .. .. . .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. . . . .. .. 0
Brief on further oonaideration per aheet of ta folios O 
t~::::~~~-~~~~ .. ~~ .. ~~- '~ ... ~~ 0 
.Acoounte, ltatemente, and other documents for tbe 
AdYertisemente to be lligned b1 judge's clerk,
including attendanoe therefore . ..... . .. .. .. .. . ...... ... .. 0 
BW of 008ta for tuatlon, including oopy for the
tas:ing officer .... .. .... .. .. .. .. . . . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. . .. .. . .. . . .. .. 0 
CoPllCB, 
Of pleadinp, brief1,an4 other dooumente where no
other prorilion ia made, at per folio..................... 0 
Whe~, pursuant to B.ulof Court, any pleading, 
special cue, or petition of right, or e'ridenoe
is printed. the solicitor or the party printing eha1l 
be allowed for a OOPJ for the printer (e:aoept
when made by the officer of the oourt),atper folio O 
And for esaminin1 the proof print, at per folio...... 0 
And for printing the amount actuall1 and p~ 
perq paid to the printer, not exoeedinir per folio O
And iD addition for eyer7 twellt1 beyond the flnt 
twenty ooptes, at per folio . .. .. . ........ ... ... .... .. .. .. .. . O
And where an, part shall properly be printed in a 
. fonin language, or u a fac-aimlle, or in any unuauf or special manner, or where &DJ alteration 
in the document beiDtr printed becomes neoN- 
11&1'1 after the flnt proof, nch farther allowance
ab&ll be made u the t.uiDg ofllcer shall UJ.ink 
~IOD&ble.
TheN allowanoes are to include all attend&Doe. on 
tbe printer.
Tbe 10lioitor for a party entitled to take printed 
copies lkall be allowi.d, for such number of
oopies u he shall ueoe11Nri11 or properl1 take. 
the amount he shall Jl&1 therefore.
In addition to the allowanoes for prlntinir and takiDtr 
printed COJ.>ies, there llhall be allowed for suoli
printed copies u may be D80f!880.l'1 or proper for the
following, but for no other purpoNII (l'idiut): 
or &Dy pleadinir for delil'er, to the opposite IIUt7 
or tlliDir in default of appe&r&Doe . 
or an, special caae for tlliDI' .. 
or any petition of ri1bt for preeentation, if p,eNDted in print, and for the solicitor of the 
Treuury, and aerrioe on an1 party . 
or &DJ ple&ding, special cue. or i,etlt.1011 of right,
for the me of the oourt or judge . 
Of any affidavit to be 1worn to iD print ..
And of an1 pleadiDg11~ c&IM', petition ofriirht. 
or e'ridenoe for the uae of oouuel iD oourt, and in
oountr, agency e&UHB when proper to be NDt u 
a close oopy for the ue of the 0011ntry solicitor,
at per folio 0 0 ll 
1 
Lower 
8a&le. 
1 0
0 1
0
6
8
0 10 0 
I 0
0 1
0
6 8
0 6
8 
0
8 0 

8
0 13 
0
8 0 0 8 
0 
0 
' 
' 
0
0 
0 0 
0
i
0 0 I 
l 0 0
0
0
0 0 l 
' 
' 
' 
' 
0 0 8 
Saoh additional allowanoee for printed copifor the
oourt or judge, and for couneel, are not to be 
made where written oopihue been made
prenoual7 to prilltinir, and are not in &DJ ca11e to be 
made more than onoe in the progreN or the caue.
C1oee oopiN, whether printed or writteu, are not 
to be allowed u of ooune, but the alloW&Doe 19
to depend on the propriety of making or 1181ldiq
the oopi, which ID -.ch cue 19 to be ahoWD 
and oouidered bJ the tuiDg ofll081'.
Inaerting amendment.a in a printed oopJ of &DJ 
pleading, apeoial cue, or petition of rt,ht, 
o:'-:;: f!t ~~~ ... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
h:&t18AL8, 
Of statement of oomplaint, statement of defenoe,
replJ, joinder of lll8ue. demurrer, and other plead
hair (not beiD,r a petition or aummona) bJ the
aolicitor of tlie partJ to whom the -.me are 
deliTared .
Or per folio .
Of amendment of &DJ au.oh pleading in writfnr ..... 
rt :Si!;';!pn;.'ied.":::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::: 
8I ro=c:!~:.e:::een~~.ib,imi,i>;;"iii. 
110lioit.or .
Or per folio . 
Of special oaae b7 the eolloitor of &DJ partJ ucept
the one bJ whom it 19 prep&red, . 
Or per folio .
01 oopJ order to add parties, notice of dtfendant'
olaim acaiuat &nl per90n not a partJ to the action
under Order XVI., Rule 18, and of defendant's 
statement of defense and oounter claim aened 
on a peraon not a part:, under Order XXII.,
Rule 6, b:, the aolioitor of the part:, aerYed there, 
with, and in these aeTeral cuea the peroal of the
plaintifft"a at.atement of oomplaint 19 alao to be 
allowe<l unleu the eollcit.or bu been preTioual:, 
O:Ui!:'i:!1~0~.~~.:::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::: :::::: 
Ol notioe to produoe and notioe to admit by the
10lioitor of the partJ aerTed .. 
Of affldaTit in anawer to fnt.erroptoriby the
aolioitor of the party interrogating, and of other 
IIJ)8ola1 aftldanta b:, the aolioitor of the part:,
apinat whom the me can be read. per folio ... 
ATTJUfD.a.trCU, 
To obtain oonaent of nut friend to aue in ht. name
To deliTer or file an:, pleading (not being a petition 
or 1ummon1) and a 1peoial cue . 
To tnapeot, or produoe for inapeotion, dooumenta
p111'8uant to a notioe to admit . 
Or per hour .
To examine and aign admlulon1 . 
To inapeot, or produce for in1peotio11, document.a
referred to in ~ pl~r or aftldavit, pnraU&Dt 
to notice uuder Order ., Buie 1, .. 
0 1 0
0 0 6 
0
8 8 0 13 
' 0 8 8
0 6
8
0 0 
0
8 8
018 
0 0 
0
6 8 O lS 
0 0 
4, 
0 0 
0 6 8
0 13 
0
a 
' 
Higher
Soale. 
I! d.
Lower 
Bcale. 
"' .. a, 
0 5 0
0 0 6 
0 0 
0
6 8
O is 
0 6
8
0 6
8 0 18 4 
0
6 8
0 6
8
0 6
B 0 18 
0 8 8 0 8
8 
' 
' 
'
0 0
.. 
'
0 0 
0
8 8 013 
0
6 8 0 13 
0 0 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
Lower
His her 
Bou. BO&le.
~ cl.
~ .. 4. 
Or per hoar .............................................. .............
0 8
8 0
8 8
To obt.ain or gbe &DJ' DeON8U'J or proper ooDHDt
0 8 8 0
8
8 
To ~taiD an appointment to eumiDe witneeNa
0 8 8
0
8
8 
On ezaminatton of wiu ... before an7 eumJ.ner,
0 13 
commi88ioner, officer, or other penon ...............
Or aooordin,r to ciron11l8t.anoee. not to esoeed .........
II s
0
s
s 0 
Or if without oouD.881, not to Hoeed 8 3 0
On dernenta being ,worn, or b7 a IOlicltor or hia 
cler to be 1worn, to au affldadt; in ananr to 
0
8
8 mtem,ptoric,r other 1peoial afflda'rit ...... 0
6
8 
On a 111mmon1 at Judges' Chamberl ........................
0
6 8
0 8 8
Or acoording to oircumatancnot to e:1:ceed ......
1
1
0 1 1 0
1n the Cban:u]; dhiaion, an allowancea for attend
ml at the udge1" Chamben are to be h7 '1le
ju re or chief clerk u heretofore. 
To fl.le chief clerk.a' and tuiDs mallten' certuloat.,
and get cop7 marlted.u an office oop7 ...............
0
8 8
0 6
8 
On ooQDlel with brief or other papen:0 
0 8 8 Ir ooonae1'1 fee 1 roin....................................... 3 
U more and under five gutn_. ........................... 0
8 8
0 8 8
If five gumeu and 11Dder twent7 pin ................. 0
8
8
013 
H t:~t~~r ;;,:i,;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
0 13 
II s 0
On con11ultation or oonf81'elloe withooUDllel.. ..........
O is 
To enter or aet down action, demurrer, lpeCial 
cue. or appeal. for hearing or trial .....................
0
8
8
0
6 8
In court on motion of comae an4 on ooanael and for 
order .................................................................
0 10 0 013 
T~J!~~-.~~~--~~~ ~~~-~~ .. ~~-~ . ~~ .~~~
0 8 8 0 13
4, 
In court on ever, lp8Cial motion, each da7 ............ 0
8
8
0 13
4, 
On 11&me when bNrd Neb day ..............................
0 13 
Or aooordmg to oirclllll8tanoee .............................. 1
1 0 II II 0
On demurrer, IIJ)eOial cue, or apecial pe\itlon, or 
application adjo111'Ded from the judge'a ohamben1 
when in the apeoi&l paper for the da,r, or likel7 to 
0 8 0 10 0 be bNrd ...........................................................
8
On aame when h'l"d .............................................
0 13 
1 1 0
Or according to oircumatancee, not to exceed ......
1
1 0 s s
0 
On bearing or trial or uy oauee, or matterth or i.uue
of fact, in London or Mi4dleaes, or e town 
where the solicitor refJidor oarriea on bUlineu,
whether before a jud,:i with or without a j~ 
or oommiaaioner, or re eree, or on ueemment
damagea,lwhen in the paper .................................
0 10
0
0 10 0 
When heard or tried .............................................
0 13 
1
1
0
Or according to oirouaultanoea .................. ...........
s
s 0
s a
0 
When not in London or Middleeex, nor in the toWD 
where the solicit.or reeidea or oarrlu on bn1ines1,
for ea.ob da7 (except Bunda79) he ia neoeaaril7
ablent ........................ .......................... ...........
II
II 0 s a 0 
And upenaea (beaidactual reaaonable travelllng
0r0~u":tr~m~l~~:'::i~~~-th~;;~~ 
trial or &811811111lent at the ume time and place, in
-.ch mae 
1 l
0 111 6
The expensea in soob cue to be rateabl7 divided. 
To hear judgment when aame adjourned ...............
0
6
8
0 13
4, 
Or acoordinf to ctroumat.ancea ......... ,,, ..................
0 13 
4,
0 13 
4, 
4, 
4, 
4, 
4, 
4, 
4, 
4, 
1 1 0 
0 13 
013
4, 
0
1 1
0 
4, 
4, 
4, 
l
1
0 
To deliyer ))&pen (wben reqnlred) for the 1198 of Judge prior to a hring . 
If more than one jud,fe .
On taxation or a bill of ooet.a . . ..
Or aooordiq to otroumatanoem_ not to esoeed .. 
In oa111189 for ru~rpo9911 within the oocntunoe of
the Court o Chancery before the Act pueed.
1uch further fee u the tadq omoer may think 
flt, notuceeding the allonuoee heretofore made.
To obtain or gi1'8 an undertaking to appear ...... 
To preNDt a apeclal peittlon. and for aame
an1wered . 
On printer t.o inaert acherfilement in Gcuette ..
On print.er to iD.aert ame in each other papen, 
printer . 
~;:c;fo~~~t~~i~~~l~~ 
))&per for bearing ..
For an order draW'D op by chief olerk, and to 
get eame entered ..
On oounael to procure oertifloate tbat c&UN proper 
to be beard aa a 1bon OAUN, u.d OD regiatn.r to 
Dl&r'k eame .......... ..... . 
To mark oonTeyanctng ooDUel or tuin,r muter 
For preparing and drawing up an order made "
chamben in prooeedtnp to wind-up a oompanf 
and attendtns for same, and to ret me entel'ed 
And for engroeam,r eTery such order, per folio ...... 
NoTll:.-An oraerofooune m8IULI an order ma.de 
011 an o.r paru applioatlon, and to which a pa.rt)' 
ill entitled .. of right OD hill OWD atatement and at
hill OWD riak. 
0.A.TBB .&ll'D EDIIBITII, 
Com.millatonen to take oatha or affldaTita. For eer,
oath, declaration. affirmation, or atteat&tion
upon bonoar,ln London or the oount17 .. 
The 10lioitor for preparing each e:shiblt in toW'll or 
countl'y . 
The ooDUlliuloner for marking each e:shibtt .. 
TBIUI Fus. 
Pew nery term oommenolng on the da,J the littinp
in London and Kiddleees of the High Court of 
Juatloe oommenoe, and terminating on the day
preoediq tbe nest auoh alttinp. in which a pro
oeedins in the oaUH or matter by or affeotinr
the party, other than the lautng and aernng the 
writ of 1ummou, aball take p)aoe ..
And further, in country agency cauea or mattera, 
forletten .
Where no prooeedlng In tbe cauee or matter ia 
taken which carriee a term fee, a charge for 
Jett.en may be allowed, If the circumataP.oee
require It. 
ID addition to the aboe an allowanoe ill to be made
for the n80888U'J espenae of poetapa, c.rriqe 
and tranamiuion of document.a. 
Lower
8oale. 
R 1. d.
0 8 8 
0 1.'I 6 
0 8 8
S S O 
0 8 8
0 8 8 
0 8 8 
O ti 8 
0 6 8
0 6 8 
0 8 8
0 8 8 
0 18 6 
0 0 6 
0 1 8
0 1 0 
0 1 0 
0 15 0 
0 6 0 
:- 
~ .. e, 
0 8 8
0 13 6 
0 6 8 
I I O 
0 6 8 
0 8 8 
0 6 8
0 8 8 
0 6 8
0 8 8 
0 8 8
0 6 I 
O IS 6 
0 0 6 
0 8 
0 1 0
0 1 0 
0 15 0
0 6 0 
SPCIAL ALLOWANCES AND G1nnu.L PBoVISIONS. 
1. Ae t.o write of eummom requiring special indonement,
original speoial oaaee, pletldinga and aflida'rita in answer to inter
rogatories, and other speoial affidavitsz. when the higher 1cale ia
applicable, the taxing officer may, in lieu of the allowance, for 
instructions and preparing or drawing, make euoh allowance for
work, labour, &nd expeneee in or about the preparation of such
documents aa in hie diecretion he may think proper. 
2. As to drawing any plea.ding or other document, the fees
allowed shall include any oopy made for the uae of the solicitor,
agent or client, or for counsel t.o eettle. 
8. Aa to in.Btructions to sue or defend, when the higher acale ia
applicable, if in consequenoe of the instruction, being taken eepa.
rately from more than three pereons (not being co.partners) the 
taxing officer shall consider the fee above .t~fded inadequate,
he may make such further allowance aa he in hie diacretion 
consider reaaonable.
4. As t.o affidavits, when there are several deponents to be 
,worn, or it i1 neceasary for the purpose of an affidavit being
awom t.o at<> to a distance, or to employ an 1.1r9nt, such reaaonable allowance may be made aa the taxing officer in hie cliacre. 
tion may think fit.
5. The allowances fc.r instruotiona and drawinif an affida'rit in 
answer to interrogatories and other special affldav1te, and attend.
ing the deponent to be sworn, include all attendances on the 
deponents to settle and read over.
8. As to delivery of pleading,, eervioee, and notioes, the feea 
are not t.o be allowed when the aame solicitor is for both partiee!. 
mileas it be neoeuary for the purpoee of making an afficlavit or
service. 
7, As to peruaa1a the fees are not to apply where the aame
solicit.or iB for both parties, 
8. Ae to evidence, 1uoh just and reasonable charges and
~sea aa appear to have been properly inovred in_.Proouring 
evidenoe, and the attendance of witneaae1, are to be allowed.
9. As to ~cy oorrespondenoe, in country ageno, oauaes and 
matters, if 1t be ahown t.o the eatiafaotion of the taxing offioer
that such correspondence has been epooial and extenaive, he is 
to be at liberty to make such e~ allowance in reepeot thereof
aa in hie discretion he may think proper. 
10. AB to attendances at the judge,chambers, where, from
the length of the attendance. or from the difficulty of the cue,
the judge or maater shall think the highest of the above fees an
inauffi.oient remuneration for the servioea performed, or where the
prepara.tion of the cue or matter to lay it before the judge or
master in chambera.._or on a 1ummons, shall have required skill
and labour for which no fee baa been allowed, the judge or
master may allow such fee in lieu of the fee of lZ. ls. above provided, not exceeding 21. 2s., or where the higher eoale ia applicable
3Z. as., or in proceedings to wind up a company _5Z. 58., aa in his
discretion he may think flt; and where the preparation of the 
case or matter to lay it before a jud1e at chambers on a swnmon1 
1hall have required and reoeiTed from t.he eolioitor 1uoh extra.
ordinary akill and bl.hour u mat.e!W11 to oonduoe to the sati8- 
faotory and epeedy diapou.l of t.he buameu, and thereforee ahall
appear to the judge to deHn'e higher remuneration than the 
ordinary feea, the judge may allow to the aolicitor, by a memo?'lllldum in writing expressl1 made for that purpoee and eigned
by the judge, 1pecifying dietmctly the grounds of such allowance, 
such fee, not exceeding ten guinea.e, aa in hie diacretion he may
think fit, inatead of the above fees of 2/. 2s., St.&., and 5l. 5s. 
11. A1 to attendance& at the judges' ehsmbera, wbere by reaeon
of the non-attendance of any party (and it ia not oomidered u. 
pedient to proceed ee parte), or where by reaaon of the neglect
of any party in not being prepared with any proper evi,enoe, 
account, or oth81' proceeding, the attendance ia adJourned without any uaeful progreSB being made, the judge may order saob
an amount of ooete lif any) aa he shall think reuooable to be 
paid to the party attending by the party so ab1ent or neglectful,
or by his solicitor peraonally; and the party ao abaent or neglect
ful is not to be allowed any fee as againat any other party, or any estate or fund in which any other party ia intereated. 
12. A folio ia to oompriae seventy.two word&, every figure
oomprieed in a column being oounted as one word. 
13. Snob cost& of proonrin, the advice of ooansel on the plead.
inga, evidence, and prooeedanga in any cause or matter aa the 
t.axing officer shall in his dis:,retion think juat and ree.aonab~e.,
and of procuring counsel to eettle snob pleadings and apecial 
affidavit, aa the taxing officer shall in hie discretion think proper
to be settled by counsel, are to be allowed; but aa to affidavits, 
a 1eoarate fee ia not to be allowed for each affidavit, but one fee
for all the affidavit& pro~er to be so settled, which are or ought
to be filed at the same time. 
14. Aa to connael attending at JudgeeChamber&, no ooate
thereof shall in any case be allowed, unlees the judge certifies it 
to be a proper oaae for OOUJl&el to attend.
15. As to the inspection of dooumenta under Order XX:XI., 
Rule 14, no allowanoe ia to be made for any notice or inspection,
unlea1 it is 1hown to the aa.tiafaction of the taxing officer that
there were ,rood and suffioient reasons for givmg 1uch notice uad 
making anon inspection.
16. Ae to taking copiee of document& in poeaeeaion of another 
party, or extraote thArefrom, under Rulee of Court or any special
order, the party entitled to take the oopy or extract ia to pay the 
10lioitor of the party producing the document for auoh oop1 or
extraot as he may, by writing, require, at the rat.a of 4d. per folio;
and if the solicitor of the party producing the document refuse& 
or negleote to supply the same, tho solicitor requiring the oopy
or extract is to be at liberty to make it, and the 1olioitor for the
party producinr ia not to be entitled to any fee in respect 
thereof. 
17. Where a petition in any cause or matter aasigned to the
Chancery division is served, and notice ie given to the party
ae"ed that in oase of his appearance in court his ooste will be 
objected to, and accompanied by a tender of ooate for pel'1l8inJ 
the aame, the amount to be t.endered ahaU be 2l. 21. The party 
making 11uoh payment 11hall be allowed the u.me in his ooete, pro
'rided auch eerrioe was proper, but not otherwiee; but thia order
i11 without prejudioe to the right.a of either party to 001ta, or to 
object to coeta where no suoh tender is made, or where the
court or judge 11hall ooneider the party entitled, notwithet.anding 
11uch notioe or tender, to appear m oourt. In an:, other oaee in
which 110licitor of a party 118n'ed neoeau.ril:, or properly 
peruee any auoh petition- without appeariq thereon, he i.a to be 
allowed a fee not exceeding 21. 2,. 
18. The court or judge may, at the hearing of any oauae or
matter, or upon applie&tion or procedure in any o&uae or matter 
in court or at cllambere, and whether the same ill objected to or
not, direct the ooeta of any pleading, aftida'rit, evidenoe, notice 
to oroee.examine witnee11oa, account, statement, or other prooeeding, or an:, part thereof, whioh i11 improper, unneoeeu.ry, or 
oontaine unneces8-!1 matter, or ill of unneoo11eary length, to be
dillallowed, or may direct the taxing officer to look into the same
and to disallow the costs thereor, or of 11uch part thereof as be
ehall find to be improper, unneoesea.ry, or to contain unneoeseary
matter,or to beof unnecessary length: and in such oaee the party 
whose coats are 10 dieallowed ehall pay the ooste oeoaeioned to
the other partiee by such unnecessary prooeediog, matter, or 
length ; and in any oaae "here such question shall not have been
raised before and dealt with by the court or judge the taxing 
officer may look into the ame (and, aa to evidence, although the
Bame may be entered as read in any decree or order) for the 
purpoae aforel&id, and thereupon the eame ooneequencee ahall
eneue a.a if he had been 11peoially directed to do 10. 
19. In any oue in which, under the preoeding rule No. 18, or
an:, other rula of court, or by the order or direction of a ooort 
or judge, or otherwiee, a party entitled to receive oosta is liable
to pay ooeta to any other party, the taxing offloer may tax the 
ooetit snch party ill 110 liable to pay, and may adjust the same by
way of deduction or set off, or may, if he shall think fit, dele.1. 
the allowance of the costs such party is entitled to receive until
he baa pa.id or tendered the oosts he ill liable to pa.y ; or such 
officer may allow or oertif:, the oosts to be paid, and the same
may be recovered by the party entitled thereto in the eame
manner && ooeta ordered to be pa.id may be recovered. 
20. Where in the Chancery division &ny question as to any
costs ie under the preceding rule 18 dealt with at chambers, 
the chief clerk ia to make a note thereof, and state the ea.me
on his allo.,anoe of the fees for attendances at chambers, or 
otherwise. as may be convenient for the information ot the
t&xini offl.oer. 
21. Where any party appears upon any application or pro.
oeeding in ooort or at chambers, in which he ia not interested,
or upon which, a.ooording to the practice of the court, he ought
not to attend. he ia not to be allowed any coat of such applioa.
tion unless the oourt or judge shall expressly direct such ooata 
to be allowed.
22. Aa to applioatioD1 to extend the time for t.aking any pro. 
oeeding limited by rulem or oouri (1nbjeot to any speoial order
aa to the ooete of and 000&8ioned by any nch application), the
ooete of one application are, without ~al order, to be allowed 
u coeta in the cau11e or matter, but (unleu specially ordered)
no 001t8 are to be allowed of any further appli0&tion to the party 
making the same as llfB,inllt any other party, or any eetat.e or
fund in which any other party iintereet.ed. 
23. Thet.aing offi.001'8 of the Supreme Court, or of any division
thereof, shall, for the purpose of any proceeding before them, 
have power and authority to administer oaths, and 11hall, in relation to the t.aution of C08t&, perform all auch dutiee as have
h~retofore been performed by any of the mut.eni, taring 
masters, regi11trar11 or other officers of any of the oomta whoee
jurisdiction ia by the A.ot transferred to the High Court of Jus
tice or Court of Appeal, and shall, in reepect thereof, have such
powers and authorities u previoua to the commencement of the 
Act were vested in any of auch officers, including examining
witne111ee, directing production of books, papere, and documents, 
making aeparate oertificat:a or allocaturs, requiring any party 
to be represented by a separate aolioitor, and to direct and adopt
all aui,h other proceedings u could be directed and adodted by 
any suoh officer on references for the taxation of coats, an taking
aooounta of what i11 due in respect of sueh 0011ta, ud such other 
acoounte connected therewith a.s may be directed by the oourt or
ajud~. 
24. The taxing officer shall haTe authority to arrange and
direot what parties are to attend before him on the t.antion of 
eo&t.a to be home by a fund or eetate, and to disallow the ooeta 
of any party whose attendance aucb officer shall, in his disore,.
tion, oonaider unneoeau.ry in oonaequenoe of the intereet of eucb
party in auoh fund or e,,tate being small or remote, or auffloiently
proteoted by other pa.rtiee interested. 
25. When any party entitled to cost.a refuaea or nerleot. to 
bring in hie ooate for tua.tion, or to procul'e the ame to be taxed
and thereby prejndicea any other partythe taxing officer abll 
be at liberty to certify the coeta or the other partieR, and
oertify auch refusal or neglect, or may allow snob party refusing or neglecting a nominal or other sum for such ooat.a, ao 
as to prevent any other party being prejudiced by euob refusal or
neglect. 
26. Aa to cost& to ho paid or borne by another party, 110 coet.a
are to be allowed which do not appear to the tarinf officer to 
have been necessary or proper for the attainment o ju11tice or
defending the rights of the party, or which apJ?9&r to the taxiog
offlo~r to have been incurred through over.caut1on, negligence, or
mistake, or merely at the desire of the pe.rty. 
?:l. As to any work and labour properly performed and not
herein provided for, and in respect of which fees haTe heretofore
been allowed, the ea.me or similar foes are to be allowed for auch
work and labour aa have heretofore been allowed. 
28. The rules, ordera, and practice of uy oourt whose jU?'UI.
diction is transferred to the High Court of Justice or Court of 
Appeal, relating to coats, and the allowanoe of the feee of 10li- 
cit.on and att.omey1, and the tuation of COBte, emting priOt' to
the oommenoement of the Act, 1ball, in 10 far u they a.re not 
inoonsiet.ent with the Act, and the rule1 of Court in punnance
thereof, remain in foroe and be applioable to costs of the eame
or analogou1 prooeedings, and to the allowance of the fees of
10licitors of the Supreme Court and the t.aution of ooets in the
High Court of Juatioe and Court of Apr.al. 
29. As to all fees or allowances which are discretionary, the
eame are, unless otherwise provided, to be allowed at the discre
tion of the taxing officer, who, in the exeroiee of such discretion,
ii to take into ooneideration the other fee1 and allowanoe1 to the
eolicitor an<l oouneel, if any, in respect of the work to which any
1noh allowance applies, the nature and importance of the cause 
or matter, the amount inTolved, the intereet of the parties, the
fund or peraone to bear the 001ts, the general oonduct and 001ts 
of the prooeedinge, and all other oironmstanoos. 30. Any party who may be dissatisfied with the allowance or 
dieallowance by the taxing officer, in any bill of ooet.a taxed ay
him, of the whole or any part of any item or item,, may, at any
time before the certifloate or allocator is signed, deliver to the 
other party intereeted therein, and carrying before the taxing
offioer, an objection in writinl'to snob allowance or disallowanoo, 
specifying therein by a list, in a abort and oonoiae form, the
item or item, or parts or part thereof, objected to, and may
thereupon apply to the tuinr officer to review the taxation in 
reepeot of the eame. 
31. Upe>n such application the t.axinr officer shall reooneider
and renew hie taxation upon euch objeotione, and he may, if he 
1ball think fft, receive further eridenoe in reepeot thereof, and, if 
IO required by either party, he ahall etate either in his certificate
of taxation or allooatur, or bl reference to suoh objection, the 
grounds and reaaons of hill deoulion thereon, and any special faote
or oiroumatancee relating thereto. 
3'J. Any party who may he dissatisfied with the oertifloate or
allooatur of the taxing officer, as to any it.em or pa.rt of an item
which may have been objected to u aforesaid, may apply to a 
judge at chambers for an order to review the ta.xa.tion as to the
same item or part of an item, and the judge may thereupon make 
1ucb order u to the judge may 1eem just; bot the certificate
or allocatur of the taxing officer aball be final and oonolueivo as 
to all matt.ere which ahall not have been objected to in manner
aforeeaid. 
33. Snob application shall be heard and determined by the
judge upon the evidence which shall have been brought in 
before the taxing officer, and no further evidence shall bo received upon the hearing thereof, unlesa the judge aba.11 other. 
wise direct.
3'. When a writ of summons for tho oommencemont of an 
action 1ball be issued from a district, and when an action pro.
oeeda in a district registry, all fee1 and allowanoeB, and rules and
direction, rela.tinr to ooets, which would be applicable to 1uch 
P.roceedin!f if the writ of aummona were issued m London, and 
if the action prooeeded in London, shall apply to such writ of 
