CHAPTER XXV.

OF THE PRACTICE OF COURTS OF RECORD.

ARTICLE XLVI.—0F CIVIL SUITS.

Sscrron 1699. Every bivil ‘action hereafter to be tried in any of
the courts of record in this kingdom, shall be commenced by petition,

which petition shall be verified by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one
on his ‘behalf, deposing to the best of his knowledge and belief.‘ p

l
\

Sncrrou 1,100. In all suits for the recovery of money upon evidences
of indebtedness, or vouchers certain or computable by the court, that is
to say : upon promissory notes, bills of exchange, drafts, orders, bonds and
other instruments, parol or specialty, the plaintifff in person, or by his
attorney, shall file a petition for process, addressed to the Chief Judge
or Justice of the court, in substance as follows :

The undersigned claims of —— -—, residing at —, Island of —-, —- dollars, upon (a note or other evidence of debt, as the case may be) dated —-. payable
on -—, with --- interest (rem —-. Said defendant has neglected and refined to
pay the same until this date, (and in case of fraud or concealment, or other collusive
or deceptive circumstances attendant upon the contracting or the non-payment of
the debt, here insert the same according to the circumstances). ‘

Wherefore, the undersigned asks the process of this court to cite the said defendant
to appear and answer this demand.

Dated —— day of ——-, 18--.

3

Plalntif, or Plaintifs Attorney.

Sncrron 1101. Upon the filing of such petition, in case no fraudulent circumstances be alleged by the plaintifff, the clerk shall issue, under
the seal of the court, a summons addressed to the Marshal or his deputy.
which may be in the following form:

You are commanded tosummon —— —-, defendant, incase heshallnle written
answer within twenty days after service thereof‘, to be and appear before the Supreme
Court, (or Circuit Court for the —- judicial circuit, as the case may be) at the ——
term thereof, to be holden at —-, in the Island of —, on the —-— day of -—next, at —- o’clock A. M, to show cause why the claim of —— —, plaintiff,
should not be awarded to him pursuant to the tenor of his annexed petition. And
have you then there this writ with tan return of your proceedings thereon.

Witness, ' , Fsquire,
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, at Honolulu,
this —- day of——, A. D. 18-.‘

(seal.) '

-—- —, Clerk.

SECTION 1102. Every summons issued under the seal of a court of
record, shall be served by the Marshal or his deputy, upon the defendant,
by the delivery to him of a certified copy thereof, and of the plaintifff’s
petition, to which petition shall always be annexed a literal copy of the
voucher upon which it is predicated, (if any there be,) or in case the defendaht cannot be found, by leaving such certified copy with some agent
or person transacting the business of the defendant, or at the defendant’s

last place of residence.

Sscnorr 1103. If the defendant was never an inhabitant of the kingdom, (but has property situated within the same,) or has removed therefrom, and the fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court, or a judge thereof at chambers, and it shall in like manner appear
that a cause of action exists against such defendant, or that he is a

necessary or proper party to the action, such court or judge may grant
an order, that the service be made by publication of the summons.

SECTION 1104. Such order shall direct the publication to be made in
the Government Gazette, for such length of time as may be deemed
reasonable, not less than three months. In case the residence of the
defendant is known, the court or judge shall, in addition to the publication, direct a copy of the summons and petition to be forthwith deposited in the post-office, addressed to the defendant, at his place of ' residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the
summons and petition, out of the kingdom, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post-office. In either case, the service of the

summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication. ‘

SECTION 1105. It shall be necessary to join as defendants in a civil
action, all the joint and several,~or joint makers of promissory notes, or
drawers of drafts, bills of exchange, or orders, or joint and several
obligors, lessees, or parties of the first or second part to covenants, agreements and contracts, in suing for non-payment, non-acceptance, or nonfultillment thereof, but it shall in no case be necessary to serve all the
joint parties sued with process. Service of process upon one of several
defendants at law, shall be legal service upon all for the purposes of
appearance in court, and judgment may be entered against all such codefendants thereon? provided, however, that no execution shall issue
against the sole property of any joint defendant on whom process was
not duly served as aforesaid.

Sacrrom 1106. It shall be incumbent upon every defendant served
with process of summons as hereinbefore provided, within the time
specified in the summons or order of publication, to file with the clerk
of the court, an answer to the plaintifff's demand, either admitting all
the facts stated in the petition to be true, and denying that they are sufficient in law to support the plaintifff's demand, which shall form an
issue of law to be determined by the court. or denying the truth of the

’ facts stated in the petition, which shall form an issue of fact to be determined by the jury. After either of these answers, there shall be no further pleading. '

SECTION 1107. Under the second answer mentioned in the last preceding section, the defendant may give in evidence, as a defense to any
civil action, any matter of law or fact"whatever.

SECTION 1108. The respective courts of record shall have power to
make such general and special rules, and orders, respecting notice to the
opposing party, of matters intended to be given in evidence by either
party to a suit, as shall be necessary to prevent surprise, and to afford
an opportunity for preparation for trial.

SECTION 1109. in case the defendant does not put in an answer to

the petition as hereinbefore required, the plaintifff may prove service of
the summons by personal delivery or otherwise, and default in answering, by the clerk's certificate, and shall thereupon be entitled to demand
and receive of the court, or a judge at chambers, an order declaring the
defendant in default, and authorizing the clerk, if the demand be upon
a promissory note or any other voucher contemplated by section 1100,
to mess the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim, principal, damages and interest, and to enter up judgment therefore and for the costs.

SECTION 1110. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time designated in
the order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
answer has been filed, apply for judgment; and the court or judge at
chambers shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and shall require the plaintifff or his agent to be
examined on oath, respecting any payments that may have been made
to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on "account of such demand,
and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to

YCCOVBI’.

SECTION 1111. In case the defendant shall put in an answer denying the truth of the facts set forth in the plaintifff ’s petition, which
answer shall be called the general issue, the clerk shall enroll the cause
upon the calendar of civil causes triable in the court in which the action

was commenced.

Sscnon 1112. In case the defendant shall put in an answer admitting
the facts stated in the petition to be true, and denying that they are sufficient in law to support the plaintifff ’s demand. which answer shall be
called a demurrer, the plaintifff shall join therein within twenty days on
pain of being defaulted, and may apply to a judge at chambers for a
hearing and decision of the issue. '

SECTION 1113. The judge so applied to shall have power to cite the
defendant, appoint a day for argument, cite witnesses to prove collateral
facts involved, and to decide the issue, subject tcfexceptions by either

PartySac-rxon I114. If either party take exception to the decision of the _ judge at chambers, the cause may be placed upon the calendar of
motions, with the decision of the judge at chambers, to be re-considered
by the court in term time, at the cost of the party losing.

Sncrrort 1115. If no exceptions be taken at chambers to the judge’s
decision of a question of law, and no question of fact remains to be
decided at the term, the judge shall make an order to the clerk to enter
up the judgment awarded by him upon the issue, which shall be valid,
subject to an appeal to the court in bauoo.

' ACTIONS UPON UNLIQUIDATED DEMANDS, &c.

Sacrrou 1116. In all civil cases involving unliquidated demands
constructive, implied, suppositious or hypothetical right on the part of
the government, or of any private person, corporation or other party,
being plaintifff, to recover money or damages pursuant to the words, or the
spirit or intent of any law heretofore, now, or hereafter to be passed, or
of any instrument in writing signed by any party, or of any verbal
understanding, contract or agreement, or in consequence of any injury
direct or consequential to the party plaintifff, or to his property, real or
personal, or to his character, or his feelings, the plaintifff in person, or by
attorney, shall file with the clerk of the court, a petition for process,
in substance as follows :

The undersigned claims of -— -—-, defendant, residing at —, Island of ——,
the sum of—— dollars, for damages resulting to him (or as the case may be) for
injury done by said defendant to (the person. the property, the character or the feel.
ings of the plaintiff, as the case may be) in that the defendant did (here set forth the
caun and the manner in which the injury was done, circumstantially with the view

to proof) which the plaintiff alleges was done in contravention of his private rights‘

under the laws.

Wherefore the undersigned asks the process of this court, to cite the said defendant to appear and answer this his complaint before a jury of the country, at the ——
term of this court. unless otherwise sooner disposed of by judicial authority.

Sacrrox 1117. In all cases contemplated by the last preceding section, the plaintili‘ may, according to circumstances, include in his petition.

an allegation that the defendant is secreting his property, or disposing of
the same, or colluding so to do, or is about to depart the kingdom, or is
damaging or wasting the said property, and thereupon ask for process of
attachment, or injunction, or personal arrest; against the defendant, as
such plaintifff may judge proper to ask in the premises.

3

Sstmou 1118. In actions to recover at law any specific property,
real or personal, or any specific share or interest, or right to property,
real or personal in kind, as in cases of replevin, or of ejectment, the
plaintifff in person, or by attorney, shall file with the clerk of the court,
a petition for process, which may be in the following form :

The undersigned complains of —- —, defendant, residing at , Island of
—, that he has unjustly, and contrary to law and the rights of the plaintifff, taken
into his poaeseion and converted to his use, (or occupation, as the case may be) the
following property, viz. : (here set forth the property wrongfully in the defendant's
possession, whether real or personal, and if personal, the articles by name or description, and if real, the metes, bounds, quantity and locality thereof, with the kind or
title claimed by the plaintifff) valued at —— dollars, or if in ejectment, state in lieu
of the value, to the damage of said plaintid —— dollars.

Wherefore, the plaintii asks the process of this court, to cite the said defendant
to appear and answer this complaint before a jury of the country, at the ——
term of this court, unless sooner disposed of by judicial authority, and that the plaintil' may have restitution of said property, with damages for its detention (or as the
case may be.)

Sncrton 1119. In cases of ejectment, under the last preceding section, the plaintifff may, according‘ to circumstances, allege in his petition,
that there is danger the defendant or some one for him, will commit
destruction of tenements or other property, on the premises in controversy,
students lite, and thereupon ask for process of injunction, or other

restraining process of the court, as such plaintifff may judge proper to
ask.

SECTION 1120. In every such case, in which process of constraint
to the person or property of a defendant is prayed for, no such process
shall issue until the-plaintifff or some one on his behalf, shall have filed
a bond conditioned for the reimbursement to the defendant of all costs,

charges and damages sustained‘ by him in consequence of the suit, in
case the plaintifff fail to sustain his action. Upon the filing of the petition and bond, any judge of the court at chambers, may sanction a constraining writ, by endorsing thereon his written allowance, without
which no executive judicial odicer shall be justified in the seizure, constraint, restraint or comrtiitrnent of a defendant, or in the seizure, attachment, removal, detention or injunction of his property, real or personal.

Section 1121. If the judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting an injunction,
he may grant an order requiring cause to be shown, at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted; and the defendant
may, in the mean time be restrained.

SECTION 1122. In case the petition contains no prayer for contraining process, the clerk shall issue a summons, addressed to the Marshal

or his deputy, which may be in the following form:

You are commanded to summon —— —, defendant, in case he shall his written
answer within twenty days alter service thereof, to be and appear before the Supreme
Court, (or Circuit Court for the —— judicial circuit) at the —— term thereof, to be
holden at —, on the —— day of —— next, at —— o’clock A. M, to show cause
why the claim of —— —, plaintifff, should not be awarded to h.im pursuant to
the tenor of his annexed petition. And have you then there this writ with'full
return of your proceedings thereon.

Witn, , Esquire, .
Chief J ustioe of the Supreme Court, at Honolulu,
this —- day of —, 18-—t

(Seal)

Ssc'r1oN 1123. In case the petition contains a prayer for process of
constraint against the defendant, or his property, and the plaintifff has
filed with the clerk a bond as prescribed in section 1120, approved by a
judge at chambers, and the judge has allowed the constraining process,

"the clerk may issue a summons in the form prescribed in the last pre—

ceding section, with an additional clause after the words " annexed petition,” as follows :

And you are further commanded to arrest the said defendant and commit him to
prison, unless he shall give bond to answer as aforesaid, (or to attach and keep

safely the said personal property until judgment of restitution be awarded or refused)

(or to enjoin the aid defendant under penalty of . dollars, not to sell mortgage,
lease or rent the said real property, lands and tenements, until the dissolution of
such injunction by competent judicial authority.)

SECTION 1124. In all cases of attachment, sequestration or injunction of real property, the officer serving the writ shall, in addition to personal delivery of a copy thereof to the defendant, post upon the premises
a copy of the process, and a notice of the day and hour when attached,
sequestrated or enjoined, and shall also give notice thereof in the
Government Gazette. All after-leases, mortgages, sales, bequests, assignments, trust or other conveyances of said property, until the dissolution
of the process, shall be void in law as against the plaintifff in such cases.

SECTION 1125. All persons residing or being in this kingdom shall
be personally responsible in damages, for trespass or injury, whether
direct or consequential, to the person or property of others, or to their
wives, children under majority, or wards, by such offending party, or by
his wife, or his child under majority, or by his command, or by his
animals, domitce or fem nature ; and the party aggrieved may prosecute therefore in the proper courts.

Sscrrorr 1126. .Upon failure of any party defendant, after having
been served with the process prescribed in sections 1101 and 1122, to
answer the complaint within twenty days after service, the plaintifff in the
action, upon proof to a judge at chambers, shall be entitled to an order
for judgment by default, debarring the defendant from the right to
answer. The judge or the court, shall have power, however, to open

.the default, in their discretion, for good and sufficient reasons.

SECTION 1127. The clerk shall, after such default, enter the cause
upon the calendar of assessments to be made ex parts at the term, upon
sole adduction of plaintiH’s evidence, without admitting the defendant to
rebut the same: provided, however, that the defendant may in person,
or by counsel, cross examine the plaintifff's witnesses, and address the
jury in mitigation of damages.

Ssc'r1oN 1128. The measure of damages in all cases contemplated
by section 1116, shall be according to the true legal interpretation of the
court upon the law, instrument, contract or agreement; and in all‘cases

of injury, direct or consequential, to the plaintifff in person, or his wife,
child or servant, or to his, her or their character or feelings, or to his
property, real or personal, the measure of damages shall be determined
by the jury.

SECTION II29. In actions of ejectment to enforce the right of possession of lands, it shall be sufficient to serve the party in actual possession
thereof, though he be not the adverse claimant, or if no one be in actual
possession at the ‘time, to post a copy of the process, and notice to the
party claiming adversely, in -some conspicuous place upon the premises,
at least thirty days before the first day of the term of the court at which
the case is to be tried.

SECTION 1130. Issues of fact arising in any suit, contemplated by
sections 1100 and 1116, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial
be waived by the parties with the consent of the court.

TRIAL BY REFEREE.

Sacrron 1131. In all cases of complication, and in cases involving
long accounts, the court may, upon the written application of either party
showing satisfactory cause, or of its own motion, appoint competent
referees, as provided in section 841, to hear and decide upon the facts
and merits of the case, reporting their decision to the court: provided.

however, that this provision shall not extend to any case contemplated
by sections 1116 and 1118.

Sacrron 1132. Referees so appointed shall be sworn to the faithful
and speedy investigation of, and to an honest award upon, the matters
submitted to them. All persons residing for the time being within the

jurisdiction of the court,,and liable to serve as jurors, shall be liable to
serve as referees upon appointment.

Sncrron 1133. Either party may take exception to the decision of

the referees, upon a question of law, and it shall be the duty of the
referees to note such exception.

Srtcrtou 1134. The report of referees in any cause shall be signed
by them, or a majority of them. They shall file it with the clerk of the
court by whom they were appointed, and such clerk shall notify the

parties.

SECTION 1135. ‘The party in whose favor the report shall have been
made, shall, within ten days after being notified by the clerk, more the
court, or a judge at chambers, giving at least forty-eight hours notice of
such motion to the opposite party, for judgment of confirmation, which
-the court or judge shall grant or refuse upon hearing the parties, or upon
default of the opposite party to appear, after proper notice of such
motion. ‘

SECTION 1136. Either party may except to the decision of a judge at ‘

«chambers upon the report of referees, file the grounds of his exception
with the clerk of the court in arrest of judgment, and require such
decision to be reported to the court upon the calendar of motions, for
reconsideration. If confirmation be awarded or refused by a circuit
court, either partyjmay except and take an appeal to the Supreme Court,
upon filing his exceptions with the clerk of the circuit court in arrest of
‘judgment, '.within five days after the rendition of its decision.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

.Sac‘rrox 1137. The parties to a civil suit may, with the consent of
the court waive the right to a trial by jury, either by written consent,
or by oral consent in open court entered on the minutes.

SECTION 1138. In such case the court shall bear and decide the
cause, both as to the facts and the law, and its decision shall be rendered

in writing. If the taking of anaccount be necessary to enable the court
to complete its judgment, a reference may be ordered for that purpose.

SECTION 1139. Any party deeming himself aggrieved by the decision
of a circuit court, on a question of law, in any such. case, may appeal
therefrom to the Supreme Court, upon filing written notice of such
appeal with the clerk of the circuit court, within five days after the
rendition of its decision.

SUBMITTING A CASE WITHOUT ACTION.

SECTION 1140. Parties to a question in difference, which might be
the subject of a civil action in the Supreme Court, may, without action,
agree upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to the Justices of the
Supreme Court, either in term time or in vacation. But it must appear
by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good
faith, to determine the rights of the parties.

SECTION 1141. The justices, or a majority of them, shall thereupon
hear and determine the case, and render judgment thereon, in writing,

as if an action were depending.

SECTION 1142. Judgment shall be entered in such case, as in ordinary civil actions. The case, the submission, and the written decision,
shall constitute the record.

SECTION 1143. The judgment shall be final, and may be enforced in
the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action.

Ummai snvnmn causes or ACTION.

SECTION 1144.  plaintiff in a civil suit may unite several causes
of action in the satire complaint, when they all arise out of:

1. Contracts, express or implied; or,

2. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the
rents and prolits of the same; or, '

3. Claims to recover specific personal property, with or without damages for withholding thereof; or,

4. Claims against a trustee, by {rirtue of a contract, or by operation of
law; or,

5. Injuries to character; or, ,

6. Injuries to the person; or,

'7. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united shall all
belong to one only of these classes, and shall affect all the parties to the
action, and shall be separately stated.

7 ’2~u,m/ .00. €5 - c/.«z/»- 5?» L N AMENDMENTS.

SECTION 1145. Whenever a plaintifff in any action shall have mistaken the form of action suited to his. claim, the court, on motion, shall
permit amendments to be made on such terms as it shall adjudge reasonable; and the court may, in furtherance of justice and'on the like
terms, allow any petition or other pleading to be amended in any matter
of mere form, or by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect.

smear, AND r1-moan.

SECTION 1146. It shall be competent to the defendant in any civil
action to plead an offset of like kind and denomination, existing in the
same right, between him and the plaintifff, or having made a legal tender
of money in full payment of the plaintili"s demand, toplead such tender,
and bring the amount thereof into court in bar of further interest and
costs, after such tender.

SECTION 1147. If the demand set off is founded on a bond or other

contract having a penalty, no more shall be set off than the sum equitably due.

Sacrxon 1148. If there are several plaintifffs, the demand set off,
shall be due from them all jointly; if there are several defendants, the

demand set off, shall be due to them all jointly, except as is provided
in the following section.

SECTION 1149. When the person with whom a contract is made, has
a dormant partner, and a suit is brought on such contract, by or against
the partners jointly, any debt, due to or from the person with whom the
contract was made, may be set off in like manner, as if ‘such dormant
partner had not been joined in the suit.

Sacnox 1150. When an action is brought by one person in trust,
or for the use of another, the defendant may set off any demand against
the person,’ for whose use or benefit the action is brought, in like manner as if that person were the plaintifff in the suit.

SECTION 1151. The plaintifff shall be entitled to every ground of

defense against such set off, of which he might have availed himself, in
an action brought against him on the same ground.

Sacrrort 11.52. The statute limiting personal actions, if applicable to

the set off, shall be applied in the same manner, as if an action thereon
had been commenced at the time when the plaintiIT’s action was commenced.

DEPOSIT IN COURT, &c..

Sacrrort 1153. When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination
of a party, that he has in his. possession, or under his control, any
money, or ‘other thing, capable of delivery, which, being the subject of
the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs, or is due, to another party, the court may order the same, upon
motion,‘ to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, upon’ such
conditions as may be just, subject to the further direction of the court.

Sacrron 1154. Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a court
shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and
the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience,
may make an order requiring the Marshal, or any of his deputies, to
take the money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with
the direction. of. thecourt.

/ QT ,

JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.

SECTION 1155. Judgment shall be entered by the clerk, without
motion, immediately upon the rendition of a verdict, or of a judgment of
the court in banco, or of a judge at chambers, and execution may issue
thereon at any time thereafter, when called for, unless notice is given at
the time of rendering the verdict, or judgment, of a motion for a new
trial and the filing of a bill of exceptions and bond, as provided by
statute, within ten days after the rendition of such verdict or judgment :
provided, that execution may issue within ten days, even though such
notice be given, when good and sufficient cause can be shown therefore.
The provisions of this section shall not affect the right of appeal.

NEWTRIAL.

Sncrxon 1156. Any party against whom a verdict or judgment is
rendered, as set forth in the last preceding section, may, upon filing a
sufiicient bond of security, conditioned for the payment of all costs of
motion in case he fail to sustain the same, and that he will not to the
detriment of the plaintifff in the action, remove or otherwise dispose of
any property he may have liable to execution on such judgment, and
upon giving notice of said motion and the grounds thereof to the
opposite party, move the court at any time within ten days after rendition of verdict 6: judgment, for a new trial, for any cause for which by
law a new trial may and ought to be granted. The filing of the bill of
exceptions and bond shall operate as a stay of execution, until the
motion is determined. ~ ~

WRIT 0!‘ E3803.

Section 1157. Any party deeming himself aggrieved by the decision
of a police justice, or of a circuit judge at chambers, or of a circuit court
in bawwo, or of any Justice of the Supreme Court, or by the verdict
of a jury in any civil suit, may at any time before the execution thereon
is fully satisfied, within six months after the rendition of judgment, Ele
with the clerk» of the Supreme Court, his reasons for deeming himself
aggrieved, assigning the causes of error, in such decision or verdict.

Sncrrox 1158. Such party may, upon service of copy of such assignment of errors, and tender ‘of error bond of security, conditioned for the
payment of costs in case he fail to sustain his application, and that he
will not to the detriment of the adverse party, remove or otherwise dispose of any property he may have liable to execution on the judgment,
and upon at least ten days notice to the adverse party or his counsel,
apply to any Justice of the Supreme Court, for a writ of error to be

issued to the court belpw, or to the clerk of theSupreme Court, as the
case may be, commanding such court or clerk to certify up the record
and proceedings had in the cause, that the errors assigned may be
corrected.

Sncrrorr 1159. Upon the return of- the writ with the record sent up,
the Supreme Court may grant an order to the adverse party to join in
error on pain of reversal of the former judgment; and, after hearing the
parties, or such of them as may attend for that purpose, shall thereupon
give judgment, either adirming or reversing, or modifying the former
jndgment, or remanding the cause for a new trial.

Section 1160. Every writ of error shall operate as a stay of execution, before the actual sale of property and satisfaction of judgment, and
no executive judicial officer shall, after notice, proceed to satisfy any
execution the judgment in regard to which has been removed by writ of
error: provided, that such stay shall not release property under actual
levy at the time, if the former judgment be amrmed by the Supreme
Court.

MISCELLANECUS PROVISIONS. .

Sncrrorr 1161. The several courts of record may, from time to time,
make such rules as they may deem necessary, for the guidance of their
respective clerks in making up calendars of the causes, civil and criminal,
coming on foi trial in said courts.

Srrcrrou 1162. Causes placed upon the calendar shall be taken upand disposed of in the order in which they stand, unless postponed by
the court at the request of the plaintifff or the defendant.

Sscrronr 1163. When a cause is reached upon the calendar, the
plaintifff shall be called by the clerk, and if the plaintifff be not present,
nor represented by counsel who is present, or if he- or his counsel being
present, decline to answer when so called, he may be declared non-suit

with costs. If, upon calling the plainti6', he does appear, and the
defendant having joined issue does not -appear, or answer when called,
the court may order judgment by default to be entered against such
defendant, and allow the plaintifff to proceed ex parte before the court
or jury, and the verdict of the jury or decision of the court, shall be rendered on such ex parte showing, unless good cause appear to the court
for postponing the case. ‘ ’

Sacnox 1164. At the trial of every civil suit, the plaintifff shall
have the right to open the case, and nrst to introduce his witnesses and
vouchers, and he shall also have the right to sum up the entire evidence,
and close the debate after the defendant has fully ceased. The defendant may cross-examine the plaintifffs witnesses, and helsball have the
right to introduce his ‘witnesses of defense, when the plaintifff has tested
his cause. The plaintiai may, in turn, cross-examine the defendant’s
witnesses. When all the evidence has closed, the defendant shall sum
up his defense to the court or jury: provided, that the Justices of the
Supreme Court may, by standing rule, "modify the application of the
foregoing provisions, should it appear expedient to do so.

Sncrtou 1165. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one
time between the same parties, and in the same court, upon causes of

action which might have been joined, the court may order the actions to
be consolidated into one. ".7, ’

Sscrron .1166.  time within which angactliis to belidone, as provided in any part of this chapter, shall be computed by excluding the

first day, and‘ including the last. If the ‘last day be Sunday, it shall be

excluded. » ' “
I

Sscrron 1167. When a muse of action has arisen in any foreign
country, and by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be
maintained against a person, by reason of the lapse of time, in action
thereon shall not be maintained against him in this kingdom, except in
favor of a domiciled resident thereof, who has held the cause of action
from the time it accrued.


