SECTION 3424. Proceedings.
and is civil, special or criminal.
Every
roceeding in court is an action,
A civil action is a proceeding
[C.’73, § 504; R., § 2605.]
SEC. 3425. Civil and special actions.
in a court of justice in which one party, known as the plaintifff, demands
against another party, known as the defendant, the enforcement or protec
tion of a private right, or the prevention or redress of a private Wrong.
may also be brought for the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture.
proceeding in a civil case is a special action.
other
2606-7, 2609.]

SEC. 3426. Form of actions. All forms of action are abolished, but
proceedings in civil actions may be of two kinds, ordinary or equitable. [C.
’73, § 2507; R., § 2608, 2610.]

SEC. 3427. Equitable proceedings. The plaintifff may prosecute his
action by equitable proceedings in all cases where courts of equity before
the adoption of this code had jurisdiction,
and must so proceed in all cases
where such jurisdiction was exclusive. 

SEC. 3428. Action on note and mortgage. An action on a note,
together with a mortgage or deed of trust for the foreclosure of the same,
shall be by equitable proceedings.
An action on the bond or note alone,
without regard therein to the mortgage or deed of trust, shall be by ordi
nary proceedings. 

SEC. 3429. Mechanic’s lien. An action to enforce a mechanic’s lien
shall be by equitable proceedings, and no other cause of action shall be
joined therewith. 

SEC. 3430. Divorce. An action for a divorce shall be by equitable pro
ceedings, and no cause of action, save for alimony, shall be joined there
with. 

SEC. 3431. Ordinary proceedings. In all other cases, unless otLer
wise provided, the plaintifff must prosecute his action by ordinary proceed
ings. 

SEC. 3432. Error-effect of. -An error of the plaintifff as to the kind
of proceedings adopted shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the
ction, but merely a change into the proper proceedings, and a transfer to
the proper docket.

SEC. 3483. How corrected by plaintiﬁ‘. Such error maybecorrected
by the plaintifff without motion at any time before the defendant has
answered, or afterwards on motion in court.
[C. ’73, § 2515; R., § 2614.]
SEC. 3434. By defendant. The defendant may have the correction
made by motion at or before the ﬁling of his answer, where it appears by
the provision of this code wrong proceedings have been adopted.

SEC. 3435. Equitable issues. Where the action has been properly com
menced by ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by motion,
to have any issue heretofore exclusively cognizable in equity tried in the
manner hereinafter prescribed in cases of equitable proceedings; and if all
the issues were such, though none were exclusively so, the defendant shall
be entitled to have them all tried as in cases of equitable proceedings.

SEC. 3436. Court may order change. f there is more than one party
plaintifff or defendant, who fail to unite on the kind of proceedings to be
adopted, the court, on its own motion, may direct such proceedings to be
changed to the same extent as if the parties had united in asking it to be
done. 
SEC. 3437. Errors waived. An error as to the kind of proceedings
adopted in the action is waived by a failure to move for its correction at the
time and in the manner prescribed in this chapter; and all errors in the deci
sions of the court are waived unless excepted to at the time, save ﬁnal judg
ments and interlocutory or ﬁnal decrees entered of record.

SEC. 3438. Uniformity of procedure. The provisions of this code
concerning the prosecution of a civil action apply to both ordinary and equi
table proceedings unless the contrary appears, and shall be followed in
special actions not otherwise regulated, so far as applicable.

SEC. 3439. Actions on judgments. No action shall be brought upon
any judgment against a defendant therein, rendered in any court of record
of t-he state, within ﬁfteen years after the rendition thereof, without leave
of the court, for good cause shown, and on notice to the adverse party; nor
on a judgment of a justice of the peace in the state within eight years after
the same is rendered, unless the docket of the justice or record of such
judgment is lost or destroyed; but the time during which an action on a
judgment is prohibited by this section shall not be excluded in computing
the statutory period of limitation for an action thereon.

SEC. 3440. Judgments not annulled in equity. Judgment obtained
in an action by ordinary proceedings shall not be annulled or modiﬁed by
any order in an action by equitable proceedings, except for a defense which
has arisen or been discovered since the judgment was rendered. But such
judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim, though such claim
might have been used by way of counterclaim in the action on which the
judgment was recovered.
SEC. 3441. Discovery. No action to obtain a. discovery shall be brought,
except, where a person or corporation is liable either jointly or severally
with others by the same contract, an action may be brought against any par
ties Who are liable, to obtain discovery of the names and residences of the
others. In such action the plaintiﬁ shall state in his petition, in effect, that
he has used due diligence, without success, to obtain the information asked
to be discovered, and that he does not believe the parties to the contract
who are known to him have property suﬂicient to satisfy his claim. The
petition shall be veriﬁed, and the cost of such action shall be
plaintiﬁ unless the discovery be resisted.

SEC. 3442. Successive actions. Successive actions may be maintained
upon the same contract or transaction whenever, after the former action, a
new cause of action has arisen thereon or therefrom.

SEC. 3443. Actions survive. All causes of action shall survive and may be brought notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the same.

SEC. 3444. Civil remedy not merged in crime. The right of civil remedy is not merged in a public offense, but may in all cases be enforced independently of and in addition to the punishment of the latter.

SEC. 3446. Actions by or against legal representa.tives—substi
tution. Any action contemplated in the two preceding sections may be
brought, or the court, on motion, may allow the action to be continued, by
or against the legal representatives or successors in interest of the deceased.
Such action shall be deemed a continuing one, and to have accrued to such
representative or successor at the time it would have accrued to the deceased
if he had survived. If such is continued against the legal representative of
the defendant, a notice shall be served on him as in case of original notices.

SEC. 3446. Construction of code provisions. THe rule fo the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed has no application to this code. Its provisions and all proceedings under it shall be liberally construed with a view to promote its objects and assist the parties in obtaining justice.


SEC. 3447. Period of. Actions may be brought within the times
herein limited, respectively, after their causes accrue, and not afterwards,
except when otherwise specially declared:
1. In actions for injuries from defects in roads or st1'eets—notice. Those
founded on injury to the person on account of defective roads, bridges,
streets or sidewalks, within three months, unless written notice specifying
the time, place and circumstances of the injury shall have been served upon
the county or municipal corporation to be charged within sixty days from
the happening of the injury;
2. Penalties or forfeitures under ordinance. Those to enforce the payment
of a penalty or forfeiture under an ordinance, within one year;
3. Injuries to person or 'reputation—relative 'ri_r/hts—sta'ute penalty/—settin.g
aside will. Those founded on injuries to the person or reputation, including
injuries to relative rights, whether based on contract or tort, or for a statute
penalty, within two years; and those brought to set aside a. will, within ﬁve
years from the time the same is ﬁled in the clerk’s oﬁice for probate and
notice thereof is given;
4. M'echanic’s lien. Those to enforce a 1nechanic’s lien, within two years
from the expiration of the thirty or ninety days, as the case may be, for
ﬁling the claim as provided in the law relative to mechanics’ liens;
5. Against sherz'_[7' or other public ojﬁcer. Those against a sheriff or other
public oﬁicer, growing out of a liability incurred by the doing of an act in an
oﬁicial capacity or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-pay
ment of money collected on execution, within three years;
6. Unwritten contracts—injuries to property/-.—fraud—other actions. Those
founded on unwritten contracts, those brought for injuries to property, or
for relief on the ground of fraud in cases heretofore solely cognizable in a
court of chaucery, and all other actions not otherwise provided for in this
respect, within ﬁve years;
7. Written contracts—judgments of courts not of ’I‘6C07‘d—’7‘600‘U8'I"I_/ of real prop
erty. Those founded on written contracts, or on judgments of any courts
except those provided for in the next subdivison, and those brought for the
recovery of real property, within ten years;
8. Judgments of courts of record. Those founded on a judgment of a cou-rt
of record, whether of this or of any other of the United States, or of the
federal courts of the United States, within twenty years. 

SEC. 3448. Fraud-mistake—trespa.ss.
In actions for relief on the
ground of fraud or mistake, and those for trespass to property, the cause of
action shall not be deemed to have accrued until the fraud, mistake or tres
pass complained of shall have been discovered by the party aggrieved.

SEC. 3449. Open account. When there is a continuous, open, current
account, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the date of
the last item therein, as proved on the trial. 

SEC. 3450. The delivery of the original
notice to the sheri1't' of the proper county, with intent that it be served imme
diately, which intent shall be presumed unless the contrary appears, or the
actual service of that notice by another person, is a commencement of the
action. 

SEC. 3451. The time during which a defendant is a
nonresident of the state shall not be included in computing
any of the
periods of limitationabove described. 

SEC. 3452. When a cause of action has
been fully barred by the laws of any country where the defendant has
pre
viously resided, such bar shall be the same defense here as though it had
arisen under the provisions of this chapter; but this section shall not apply
to causes of action arising Within this state. 

SEC. 3453. Minors and insane persons.
The times limited for actions
herein, except those brought for penalties and forfeitures, shall be extended
in favor of minors and insane persons, so that they shall have one year from
and after the termination of such disability

SEC. 3454. Exception in case of death. If the person having a cause
of action dies within one year next previous to the expiration of the limita
SEC. 3455. Failure of action.
rovided for, such limitation shall not app
tion above p
such death.
[C.’73, § 2536; R., §27-18; O.’51, § 1667.]
ly until one year after
If, after the commencement of an
action, the plaintifff, for any cause except negligence in its prosecution, fails
therein, and a new one IS brought within six months thereafter, the second
shall, for the
ﬁrst. 

SEC. 3466. Admission in writing-new promise.
Causes of action
founded on contract are revived by an admission in writing, signed by the
party
to be charged, that the debt is unpaid, or by a like new promise to
pay the same.

SEC. 3457. A counterclaim may be pleaded as a
-defense to any cause of action, notwithstanding it is barred by the provisions
of this chapter, if it was the property of the party pleading it at the time it
became barred, and was not barred at the time the claim sued on originated;
but no judgment thereon, except for costs, can be rendered in favor of the
party so pleading it.

SEC. 3458. When the commencement of an action shall
be stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance
of such injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action, except as herein otherwise provided.

SEC. 459. P1a.1ntiﬁ'—pa.rtyininterest—exception. Every action
must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest; but an executor
or administrator, a guardian, a trustee of an express trust, a party with whom
or in whose name a contract is made for the beneﬁt of another, or party
expressly authorized by statute, may sue in his own name, without joining
with him the
party for whose beneﬁt the action is prosecuted.

SEC. 3460. Plaintiffs joined. All persons having an interest in
subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may j0ll
plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided.

SEC. 3461. he assignment of a
thing in action shall be without prejudice to any counterclaim, defense or
cause of action, whether matured or not, if matured when pleaded, existing
in favor of the defendant and against the assignor before notice of the
assignment; but this section shall not apply to negotiable instruments trans
ferred in good faith and upon a valuable consideration before due.


SEC. 3462. Defendants. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the
is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
plaintifff, or who
ques
tion involved in the action, except as otherwise expressly provided. 

SEC. 3463. Persons having a united interest must
be joined on the sa_me side, either as plaintifffs or defendants, except as oth
erwise expressly provided; but when some who should be made plaintifffs
refuse to join, they may be made defendants, the reason therefore bein
g set
forth in the petition

SEC. 3464. One suing for all. When the question is one of a common
or general interest to many persons, or when the parties are very numerous
and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may
sue or defend for the beneﬁt of the whole.

SEC. 3465. Where two or more per
sons are bound by contract or by judgment, decree or statute, Whether
jointly only, or jointly and severally, or severally only, including the
parties to negotiable paper, common orders and checks, and sureties on the
same or separate instruments, or by any liability growing out of the same,
the action thereon may, at the plaintifff ’s option, be brought against any or
all of them. When any of those so bound are dead, the action may be
brought against any or all of the survivors, with any or all of the repre
sentatives of the decedents, or against any or all such representatives. An
action or judgment against any one or more of several persons jointly bound
shall not be a bar to proceedings against the others. 

SEC. 8466. Other parties brought in. The court may determine any
controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without preju
dice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a determi
nation of the controversy between the parties before the court can not be
presence of other parties, it must order them to be brought
made without the
in.

SEC. 3467. Suit on public bond. When a bond or other instrument
given to the state or county or other municipal or school corporation, or to
any oﬂicer or person, is intended for the security of the public generally, or
of particular individuals, action may be brought thereon in the name of any
person intended to be thus secured, who has siistained an injury in conse
quence of a breach thereof, except when otherwise provided.

SEC. 3468. Partnership. Actions may be brought by or against a
partnership as such, or against all or either of the individual members
thereof, or against it and all or any of the members thereof; and a judgment
against the ﬁrm as such may be enforced against the partnership property, or
that of such members as have appeared or been served with notice. A new
action may be brought against the members not made parties, on the original
cause of action. 

SEC. 3469. Foreign corporations may sue in the courts of this state in their corporate name.

SEC. 2470. An unmarried femaile may maintain as plaintifff an action for her own seduction. 

SEC. 3471. Injury or death of minor child. A father, or, in case of
his death or imprisonment or desertion of his family, the mother, may as
plaintifff maintain an action for the expenses and actual loss of service
resulting from the injury or death of aminor child. 

SEC. 3472. Name unknown. When the precise name of any defend
ant cannot be ascertained, he may be described as accurately as practicable,
and when it is ascertained it shall be substituted in the proceedings.


SEC. 3473. Action on written instrument. When an action is
founded on a written instrument, it may be brought by or against any of the
parties thereto by the same name and description as those by which they
are designated in such instrument.

SEC. 3474. Prisoner in penitentiary. No judgment can be rendered
against a prisoner in the penitentiary until after a. defense made for him by
his attorney, or, if there is none, by a person appointed by the com't.
SEC. 3475. The state may maintain actions in the same manner as natural persons, but no security shall be required in such cases.

SEC. 3476. No action shall abate by the transfer of any interest therein during its pendency, and new parties may be brought in, as may be necessary.

SEC. 3477. A married woman may in all
cases sue and be sued without joining her husband with her, and an attach
ment or judgment in such action shall be enforced by or against her as if
she were single.

SEC. 3478. Defense by. If husband and wife are sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right, and if either neglects to defend, the
other may defend for both. [O. ’73, § 2563; R., § 2774; C.’51, § 1687.]
SEC. 3479. When husband or wife deserts family. When a hus
band has deserted his family, the wife may prosecute or defend in his name
any action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the
same powers and rights therein as he might have had; and, under like cir
cumstances, the husband shall have the same right.
SEC. 3480. Actions by minors. The action of a minor mustbe brought
by his guardian, if he has one, if not, by his next friend, but the court may
dismiss it if it is not for his beneﬁt, or may
person as next friend.

SEC. 3481. Plaintiff insane. The action of a person judicially found
to be of unsoundmind must be "brought by his guardian, but, if he have
none, the court or judge thereof, or the clerk in vacation, may appoint one
for the purposes of the action. 
SEC. 3482. The defense of a. minor must be by
his regular guardian, or by one appointed to defend for him where no
regular guardian appears, or, where the court directs a defense, by one
appointed for that purpose. No judgment can be rendered against a minor
until after a defense by a guardian. 

SEC. 3483. Such appointment can not be made
until after the required service of the notice in the action, and then may be
by
the court, or in vacation by a judge or the clerk; but the court shall
have the power to remove such guardian when the interests of the minor
require it.
If made by the judge or clerk, it shall be done by indorsing the
name of the person appointed and the time thereof on the petition in the
action. 

SEC. 3484. Application for appointment. The appointment may also
be made on the application of the minor, if he is of the age of fourteen
years, and applies at or before the time he is required to appear and defend.
If he does not, or is under that age, the app
ointment may be made on the
application of any friend of his, or on that of the plaintifff in the action.

SEC. 3486. Defense of insane person—appointment of guardian.
The defense of an action against a person judicially found to be of unsound
mind, or of one conﬁned in any state hospital for the insane who, by the
certiﬁcate of the physician in charge,
guardian, or a guardian appointed by
appointment may be made upon the app
appears to be insane, must be by his
the court to defend for him. Such
lication of any friend of the defendant,
or on that of the plaintifff, but not until service has been made as directed in
this code, and no judgment can be rendered against him until defense has
been made as herein provided.

SEC. 3486. Pending suit. Where a party is judicially found to be of
unsound mind, or is conﬁned in any state hospital for the insane, and, by the
certiﬁcate of the physician in charge, appears to be insane, during the
pendency of an action, the fact being stated on the record, if he is plaintifff
his guardian may be joined with him in the action as such; if defendant, the
plaintifff may, on ten days’ notice thereof to his guardian, have an order
making the guardian a defendant also. [C. ’73, 2571; R., § 2783.]
SEC. 3487. Interpleader. Upon the affidavit, before answer, of a
defendaut in any action upon contract for the recovery of personal property,
that some third person, without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to
the subject of the action, or on proof thereof, as the court may direct, it may
make an order for the safe keeping, or for the payment or deposit in court,
or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as it may direct, and
an order requiring such third person to appear in a reasonable time and
maintain or relinquish his claims against defendant, and in the meantime
stay the proceedings. If such third person, being served with a copy of the
order, fails to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claims in
respect to the subject of the action against the defendant therein. If such
third person appears, he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the
action in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all
iability to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action,
upon his compliance with the order of the court for payment, deposit or
delivery thereof. [C.’73, § 2572; R., § 2767; C. ’51, § 1685-6]
SEC. 3488. By sheriff. The provisions of the last section shall be so
tar applicable to an action brought against a sheriff or other oﬂicer for the
recovery of personal property taken by him under an attachment or execu
tion, or for the value of such property so taken and sold by him, that, upon
exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted, with his aﬁidavit
that the property for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action was
brought was taken under such process, he may have the attaching or execu
tion creditor made a joint defendant with him, and if judgment go against
them, it shall provide that the property of such creditor shall be ﬁrst
exhausted in satisfaction thereof. 

SEC. 3489. Substitution. In an action against a sheriff or other oﬂicer
for the recovery of property taken under an attachment or execution, the
court may, upon application of the defendant and of the party in whose
favor the process issued, permit the latter to be joined with such oﬂicer as
defendant. 

SEC. 3490. Landlord’s attachment. An action brought by a tenant,
his assignee or under tenant, to recover the possession of speciﬁc personal
property taken under 1andlord’s attachment, may be against the party who
sued out the attachment; and the property claimed in such action may, under
the writ therefore, be taken from the ofﬁcer who seized it, when he has no
other claim to hold it than that derived from the writ. The indorsement of
a levy on the property, made upon the process by the officer holding it shall
be a. suﬁicient taking of the property to sustain an action against the party
who sued out the writ. 

SEC. 3491. In relation to real property. Actions for the recovery of
real property, or of an estate therein, or for the determination of such right
or interest, or for the partition of real property, must be brought in the
county in which the subject of the action or some part thereof is situated.
SEC. 3492. For injuries thereto. Actions for injuries toreal property
may be brought either in the county where the property is, or where the
defendant resides. [C.’73, § 2577.]
SEC. 3493. To foreclose mortgage or mecha.nic’s lien. An action 1'-or
the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property, or for the sale thereof
under an incumbi-ance or charge, or to enforce a mechanic’s lien thereon,
shall be brought in the county
part thereof, is situated.

SEC. 3494. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
1. For ﬁnes, penalties or forfeitures. Those for the recovery of a ﬁne.
penalty or forfeiture imposed by a statute; but when the oﬁense for which
the claim is made was committed on a water course or road which is the
boundary of two counties, the action may be brought in either of them;
2. Against public o_[7ice'rs. Those against a public ofﬁcer or person specially
appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue or under
color of his ofﬁce, or against one who by his command or in his aid shall do
anything touching the duties of such oiﬁcer, or for neglect of oﬂicia-1 duty:
3. On 0_177mJal bonds. Those on the oﬂicial bond of a public oiﬁcer. 

SEC. 3496. By attachment. An action against a nonresident of the
state, when aided by an attachment, may be brought in any county of the state
wherein any part of the property sought to be attached may be found, or
wherein any part was situated when the action was commenced, or where
the defendant is personally served in this state; and, except as hereinafter
provided, an action against a resident of this state must be brought in the
county of his residence, or that in which the contract was to be performed,
except that, if an action be duly brought against such defendant in any other
county by virtue of any of the provisions of this chapter, then such action
may, if legal cause for an attachment exist, be aided by attachment. Should
such action be brought against a resident of this state in any other county
than that of his residence, he may have the place of trial changed to the
district court of the county wherein he resides, in the same manner and
upon the same terms as provided in section thirty-ﬁve hundred and four of
this chapter, and the property attached shall not be released because said
action was brought in the Wrong county, but shall be held and subject in
the same manner as if said action had been brought in the county
defendant’s residence

SEC. 3496. Place of contract. When, by its terms, a written contract
is to be performed in any particular place, action for a breach thereof may,
except as otherwise
ls situated.

SEC. 3497. n action may be brought
against any railway corporation, the owner of stages, or other line of
coaches or ears, express, canal, telegraph and telephone companies, and the
lessees, companies or persons operating the same, in any county through
which such road or line passes or is operated.

SEC. 3498. An action may be
brought against any corporation, company or person engaged in the con
siruction of a railway, canal, telegraph or telephone line, on any contract
relating thereto or to any part thereof, or for damages in any manner grow
ing out of the work thereon, in any county where such contract was made,
or performed in whole or in art, or where the work was done out of which
the damage claimed arose. 
SEC. 3499. Against insurance companies. Insurance companies may
be sued in any county in which their principal place of business is kept, or
in which the contract of insurance was made, or in which the loss insured
against occurred, or, in case of insurance against death or disability, in the
county of the domicile of the insured at the time the loss occurred, or in the
county of plaintifff's residence. 
SEC. 3500. Oﬂce or agency. When a corporation, company or indi
vidual has an oﬁice or agency in any county for the transaction of business.
any actions growing out of or connected with the business of that oﬁice or
agency may be brought in the county where such oﬁice or agency is located.

SEC. 3501. Personal actions, except as otherwise
provided, must be brought in a county in which some of the defendants
actually reside, but if neither of them have a residence in the state, they
may be sued in any county in which either of them may be found. In all
actions upon negotiable paper, except when made payable at a particular
place, in which any
maker thereof, being a resident of the state, is defend
ant, the place of trial shall be limited to a county wherein some one of such
makers resides.

SEC. 3502. here an action pro
vided for in the preceding section is against several defendants, some of
whom are residents and others nonresidents of the county, and the action
is dismissed as to the residents, or judgment is rendered in their favor, or
there is a failure to obtain judgment against such residents, such nonresi
dents may, upon motion, have said cause dismissed, with reasonable com
pensation for trouble and expense in attending at the wrong county, unless
they, having appeared to the action, fail to object before judgment is ren
dered against them. 

SEC. 3503. Change of residence. If, after the commencement of an
action in the county of the defendant ’s residence, he removes therefrom, the
service of notice upon him in another county shall have the same effect as
if it had been made in the county from which he removed. [(3. ’73, § 2588.]
SEC. 3504. Change when brought in wrong county. If an action
is brought in a wrong county, it may there be prosecuted to a termination,
unless the defendant, before answer, demands a change of place of trial to
the proper county, in which case the court shall order the same at the cost
of the plaintifff, and may award the defendant areasonable compensation for
his trouble and expense in attending at the wrong county; and if the sum so
awarded and costs are not paid to the clerk by a time to be ﬁxed by the
court, or if the papers in such case are not ﬁled by the plaintifff in the court
to which the change is ordered ten days before the ﬁrst day of the next term
thereof, or, if ten days do not intervene between the making of said order
and the ﬁrst day of the next term of said court, ten days preceding the ﬁrst
day of the next succeeding term thereof, in either event the action shall be
dismissed. 

SEC. 3506. Grounds for. A change of the place of trial in any
civil action may be had in any of the following cases:
1. Oounty a party. Where the county in which the action is pending is
a party thereto, if the motion is made by the party adversely interested, and
the issue be triable by jury;
2. Judge a party or interested. Where the judge is a party, or is directly
interested in the action, or is connected by blood or aﬂinity with any person
so interested nearer than the fourth degree;
3. P-rqiudice or local inﬂuence. Where either party ﬁles an affidavit, veri
ﬁed by himself and three disinterested persons not related to the party
making the motion nearer than the fourth degree, nor standing in the rela
tion of servant, agent or employe of such party, stating that the inhabitants
of the county or the judge is so prejudiced against him, or that the adverse
pa.rty or his attorney has such an undue inﬂuence over the inhabitants of
the county, that he cannot obtain a fair trial; and when either party ﬁles
such an affidavit the other party shall have a reasonable time in which to
prepare and ﬁle counter aﬂidavits, and the court or judge, in its discretion,
may cause the aiﬁants upon either side to be brought into court for exami
nation upon the matters contained in their affidavits, and, when fully advised,
shall allow or refuse the change according to the very right and merits of
the matter;
4. Agreement. By the written agreement of the parties;
5. Jury not obtainable. If the issue is one triable by a jury, and it is
made apparent to the court or judge that a jury cannot be obtained in the
county where the action is pending, then, upon the application of either
party, a change of place of trial shall be granted to the nearest county in
which a jury can be obtained.
Not more than two such changes to either party shall be allowed for any
of the causes enumerated in this section; nor shall a. change be allowed in
case of appeal from a justice of the peace; nor, when the issues can only be
tried to the court, for any objection to the inhabitants of the county, or for
the objection that the adverse party or his attorney has such an undue
inﬂuence over the inhabitants thereof that he can not obtain a fair trial.
After a change of place of trial has been taken and a trial had, and the jury
discharged or a new trial granted, a subsequent change may be taken for
any of the causes mentioned in this section. 

SEC. 3506. The application for a change of place of
trial may be made either to the court or to the judge in vacation, and if
made in term time shall not be awarded until the issues are made up, unless
the objection is to the court, nor shall such application be allowed after a
continuance, except for a cause not known to the aﬁiant before or arising
since such continuance, and after one change no party is entitled to another
for any
cause in existence when the ﬁrst was obtained.

SEC. 3507. To what county or court. If the application for achange
is granted for any cause except on account of the prejudice or disability of
the judge, the cause shall be sent to the nearest or most convenient county
in the district, unless objections supported by aﬁidavit are made to each
county in the district, in which case to the nearest or most convenient county
in another district. If the objections are to the judge, the cause shall not be
tried by him, but retained on the docket and tried as provided in the chap
ter relating to the district court. 

SEC. 3508. Notice in vacation. If an application for the change is
made in vacation, five days’ notice thereof, with a copy of the aﬁidavit,
shall be.served on the adverse party or his attorney, and, if granted, the
judge shall forthwith transmit his order to the clerk, with all the papers
presented to him. 

SEC. 3509. When change perfected. If the order for the change is
granted in vacation, it must be perfected by noon of the second day after
the order is received by the clerk, and if granted during term time, by the
morning of the second day thereafter, or before the cause is reached
for ‘trial, if sooner reached, or such change, whether granted in term or
vacation, will be waived, and the cause tried as though no such order had
been granted. When the change has been perfected or agreed to by the
parties, the clerk must forthwith transmit to'the clerk of the proper court
a transcript of the record and proceedings, with all the original papers,
having ﬁrst made out and ﬁled in his oﬂice authenticated copies thereof;
but if less than all of several plaintifffs or defendants take such change, the
original papers shall not be so transmitted, but a copy thereof, and, as to
those who take no change, the cause shall proceed as if none had been
taken. 

SEC. 3510. Docketed. Upon ﬁling such transcript and papers in the
office of the clerk of the court to which the same were certiﬁed, the cause
shall be docketed without fee and proceeded with as though it had originated
therein. [C. ’73, § 2595; R., § 2808; O. '51, § 1711.]
SEC. 3511. Costs of change. Unless the change is granted under subdivisions two, four or ﬁve of the ﬁrst section of this chapter, all costs caused
thereby or that are rendered useless by reason thereof, shall be paid by the
applicant, and the court or judge, at the time of ina-king the order, shall
designate in general terms such costs, and no change shall be held per
fected imtil the same are paid. 

SEC. 8512. Jury fees. Where the place of trial in any civil action is
changed to any county other than that in which the same was properly com
menced, where the trial thereof takes place at a regular term and occupies
more than one calendar day, the judge trying it shall certify the number of
days so occupied, and the county in which the action was originally com
menced shall be liable to the county where the same is tried for the sum of
two dollars per day, for each juryman engaged in the trial thereof. 
SEC. 3513. Special term. Where a special term of any court is held
for the trial of any action contemplated in the preceding section, the court
trying the same shall make out and certify the amount of county expenses
incurred in the trial of each action, and the same shall be paid by the county
in which the same was properly commenced. 

SEC. 8514. Original notice. Action in a. court of record shall be
commenced by serving the defendant with a notice, signed by the plaintiﬁ or
his attorney, informing him of the name of the plaintifff, that a petition is,
or on or before the date named therein will be, ﬁled in the oﬂice of the clerk
of the court wherein action is brought, naming it, and stating in general
terms the cause or causes thereof, and if it is for money, the amount thereof,
and that unless he appears thereto and defends before noon of the second
day of the term at which defendant is required to appear, naming it, his
default will be entered and judgment or decree rendered against him thereon.
In all cases where the time for the commencement of the term has been
changed after the notice has been served, the defendant shall be held to
appear at the time to which such term has been changed. 

SEC. 3515. Dismissal for failure to ﬁle petition. If the petition is
not ﬁled by the date thus ﬁxed, and ten days before the term, the defendant
may have the action dismissed. 
SEC. 3516. Who may serve notice. The notice may be served by any
person not a party to the action. 
SEC. 3517. How long before term. The defendant shall be held to
appear at the next term after service:
  
1. If served within the county where the action is brought in such time
as to leave at least ten days between the day of service and the ﬁrst day of
the next term;
2. If without the county, but within the judicial district, so as to leave
at least ﬁfteen such days;
3. If elsewhere, so as to leave at least twenty such days for every one
thousand miles, or fraction thereof, extending between the
places of trial and service, which distance shall be judicially noticed by the court. If not so served, he shall be held to appear at the second term after service.

SEC. 3518. The notice shall be served as follows:
reading it to the defendant, or oﬁering to dio so in case he neglects
or refuses to hear it read, and in either case by delivering him personally a
copy thereof, or, if he refuses to receive it, offering to do so;
2. If not found within the county of his residence, by leaving a copy
thereof at his usual place of residence with some member of the family
over fourteen years of age;
3. By taking an acknowledgment of the service indorsed thereon, dated
and signed by the defendant. 

SEC. 3519. If served personally, the
return must state the time, manner and place of making the service, and
that a copy was delivered to defendant, or offered to be delivered. If made
by leaving a copy with the family, it must state at whose house the same
was left, and that it was the usual place of residence of the defendant, and
the township, town or city in which the house was situated, the name of the
person with whom the same was left, or a sufficient reason for omitting to
do so, and that such rson was over fourteen years of age and was a mem
ber of the family. 

SEC. 3520. Indorsement and return by sheriff. If the notice is
placed in the hands of a sheriff, he must note thereon the date when received,
and proceed to serve the same without delay in his county, and must ﬁle the
same, with his return thereon, in the oiﬁce of the clerk of the court where the
action is pending, or return the same by mail or otherwise to the party from
whom he received it. 

SEC. 3521. Pena1ty—amendment. If a notice is not ﬁled or returned
by the sheriff to the person from whom it was received, or if the return
thereon is defective, the officer making the same may be ﬁned by the court
not exceeding ten dollars, and he shall be liable to an action for damages
by any person aggrieved thereby. But the court may permit an amend
ment according to the truth of the case. [(3. ’73, § 2606; R., § 2820.]
SEC. 3622. Service on Sunday. Notice shall not be served on Sunday
unless the plaintifff, his agent or attorney makes oath thereon that personal
service will not be possible unless then made, and a notice so indorsed shall
be served by the sheriff, or may be served by another, as on a. secular day.

SEC. 3523. Notice o no personal claim. The plaintifff may state in
the notice the general subject of the action, a brief description of the prop
erty aﬂected by it, and that no personal claim is made against any defend
ant, naming him, and if such defendant unreasonably defends he shall pay
the costs occasioned thereby. F. ’73, § 2608; R., § 2822; C. '51, § 172-1.]
SEC. 3524. Proof of serv ce—patients in hospital for insane. If
service is made within the state, the truth of the return is proven by the
signature of the sheriff or his deputy, and the court shall take judicial
notice thereof. If made without the state, or by one not such oﬁicer within
the state, the return must be proven by the affidavit of the person making
the same. Service may be made on any patient conﬁned in any of the hos
pitals for the insane by the superintendent or assistant superintendent
thereof, and the certiﬁcate of such oﬁicer, under the seal of the hospital,
sha-ll be proof of such service. 

SEC. 3525. Superintendent may acknowledge service. When it
becomes necessary to serve personally with a notice or process of any kind
a. person who is conﬁned in any state hospital for the insane, the superin
tendent thereof shall acknowledge service for such person, whenever in his
opinion personal service would injuriously aifect such person, which fact
shall be stated in the acknowledgment of service. A service thus made
shall be held a. personal one on the defendant. [C. ’73, § 2616.]
SEC. 3526. Service on insane person out of hospital. When a
defendant has been judicially declared to be of unsound mind and is not
conﬁned in any state hospital for the insane, service may be made upon him
and upon his guardian, and, if he have none, then upon his wife, or the
person having the care or custody of him or with whom he lives. [(3. ’73, §
2615; R., § 2829; G.’51§ 1729.]
SEC. 3527. On prisoner in penitentiary. When the defendant is a
prisoner in the penitentiary, a. copy of the petition must be delivered to
im at the time the notice is served, and a copy of the notice must be
delivered to the husband or wife of the defendant, if any such be found
within this state. [(3. ’73, § 2617; R., § 2830.]
SEC. 8528. Service on county—presentation of claims. If a county
is defendant, service may be made on the chairman of the board of super
visors or county auditor. But no action shall be brought against any county,
on an unliquidated demand, until the same has been presented to such board
and payment demanded and refused or neglected.

SEC. 3529. If the action is against any
corporation or person owning or operating any railway or canal, or any
telegraph, telephone, stage, coach or car line, or against any express
company, or against any foreign corporation, service may be made upon
any general agent of such corporation, company or person, wherever
found, or upon any station, ticket or other agent or person transacting the
business thereof or selling tickets therefore in the county where the action
is brought; if there is no such agent in said county, then service may be
had upon any such agent or
county. 
SEC. 3630. On agent of insurance company. If the action is against
an insurance company, for loss or damage upon any contract of insurance
or indemnity, service may be had upon any general agent of the company
wherever found, or upon any recording agent or agent who has authority
to issue policies.

SEC. 3631. On municipal or other corporation. When the action is
against a municipal corporation, service may be made on the mayor or
clerk; if against a school township or independent district, on the president
or secretary; if against any other corporation, on any trustee or oﬂicer
thereof, or on any agent employed in the general management of its busi
ness, or on any of the last known or acting oﬂicers of such corporation; and
if no person can be found on whom service can be made as provided in this
and the two preceding sections, it may be made by publication as provided
in other cases.

SEC. 3532. On agent, as to business of oﬁce or agency. When a
corporation, company or individual has, for the transaction of any business,
an oﬂice or agency in any county other than that in which the principal
resides, service may be made on any agent or clerk employed in such oﬁice
or agency, in all actions growing out of or connected with the business of
that ofﬁce or agency. 
SEC. 3533. If the defendant is a minor under fourteen
years of age, the service must be made on his father, mother or guardian,
but if there be none of these within the state, then on the person therein
having care of or control over him, or with whom he resides, or in whose
service he is employed. When he is over fourteen years of age, service on
him shall be suﬂicient. 

SEC. 3534. By publication.
Service may be made by publication.
when an aﬁidavit is ﬁled that personal service can not be made on the defend
ant within this state, in either of the following cases:
1. In actions brought for the recovery of real property, or an estate or
interest therein;
2. In an action for the partition of real property;
3. In an action for the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or
other incumbra.n<-o or charge;
4. In actions to compel the speciﬁc performance of a. contract of sale of
real estate, or in actions to establish or set aside a will, where i11 such cases
any or all of the defendants reside out of this state and the real property is
within it; l
5. In actions brought against a. nonresident of this state, or a foreign
corporation, having in the state property or debts owing to such defendant,
sought to be taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated
in any way; _ _ _
6. In actions which relate to or the subject of which 1S real or personal
property in this state, when any defendant has or claims a lien or interest,
actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partly in excluding him from any interest therein, and such defendant is a
nonresident of the state or a foreign corporation;
7. I11 all actions where the defendant, being a. resident of the state, has
departed therefrom, or from the county of his residence, with intent to delay
or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a notice, or keeps himself
concealed therein with like intent;
8. Where the action is for a divorce, if the defendant is a nonresident
of the state, or his residence is unknown.

SEC. 3535. Method. The publication must be of the original notice
required for the commencement of actions, once each Week for four consecu
tive weeks, before or after the ﬁling of the petition, in some newspaper
printed in the county where the petition is or will be ﬁled, which paper
shall be determined by the plaintiﬁ or his attorney. 
SEC. 3636. When comp1ete—proof. When the foregoing provisions
have been complied with, the defendant so notiﬁed shall be required to
appear as if personally served on the day of the last publication within the
county in which the petition is ﬁled, proof thereof being made by the adi
davit of the
publisher or his foreman, and ﬁled before default is taken.
SEC. 3537. Actual personal service of the notice within or without the state supersedes the necessity of publication.

SEC. 3538. Vhere it is necessary to make an
unknown person defendant, the petition shall be sworn to, and state what
interest such person has or claims to have, how the same was derived or is
claimed to have been derived, as deﬁnitely as may be, that the name and
residence of such person is unknown to plaintifff, and that he had sought
diligently to learn the same; thereupon the court or judge thereof shall
approve a. notice collected from the averments of the petition, which shall
contain the name of the plaintifff, a. description of the property, and all the
allegations of the petition concerning the interest of the unknown person,
and the mode of devolution thereof, the relief demanded, the name of the
court, and the term at which appearance must be made. Such notice must
be entitled in the full name of the plaintifff against the unknown claimants
of the property, and shall be signed by the plaintifff or his attorney. 

SEC. 3539. Order of publication. The court or judge thereof, on its
or his approval of the notice, shall indorse thereon an order that it be pub
lished in some newspaper of the state, designating such paper as shall be
most likely to give notice to such unknown person. [2-1 G. A., ch. 34; C.’73,
§ 2624; R., § 2838.]
SEC. 3540. Length of publication. Such notice shall be ﬁled in the
action, and its contents, without more, sha-ll be published in the paper, and
for the time designated, at least once each week for six successive weeks,
and at the end of said time service shall be complete, and such unknown
person in court at the next term thereafter. [C. ’73, § 2625; R., § 2839.]
SEC. 3541. Mode of a.ppea.rance—when required. The mode of
appearance may be:
1. By delivering to the plaintiﬁ or the clerk of the court a. memorandum
in writing to the effect that the defendant appears, signed either by the
defendant in person or his attorney, dated the day of its delivery, and to be
ﬁled i11 the case;
2. By entering an appearance in the appearance docket or judge’s cal
endar, or by announcing to the court an appearance, which shall be entered
of record;
3. By an appearance, even though specially made, by himself or his attor
ney, for any purpose connected with the cause, or for any purpose connected.
with the service or insuﬁiciency of the notice; and an appearance, special
or other, to object to the substance or service of the notice, shall render any
further notice unnecessary, but may entitle the defendant to a continuance,
if it shall appear to the court that he has not had the full timely notice
required of the substantial cause of action stated in the petition.
No member of the general assembly shall be held to appear or answer in
any civil or special action in any court while such general assembly is in
session, nor shall any person be held to answer or appear in any court on
the ﬁrst day of January, the twenty-second day of February, the thirtieth
day of May, the fourth day of July, the twenty-ﬁfth day of December, or on
any day of thanksgiving appointed by the president of the United States or"
by the governor of this state. 

SEC. 3542. Where one or more of defendants not served. When
the action is against two or more defendants, and one or more of them shall
have been served, but not all, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action is against defendants who are jointly, or jointly and
severally, or severally liable only, he may, without prejudice to his rights
in that or any other action against those not served, proceed against those
served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants; if he
recovers against those jointly liable only, he may take judgment against all
thus liable, which may be enforced against the joint and separate property
of those served, but not against the separate property of those not served,
until they have had opportunity to show cause why judgment should not_ be
enforced against their separate property; or,
2. He may continue until the next term and bring in the other defend
ants; but at such second term the action shall proceed against all who have
been served in due time, and no further delay shall be allowed to bring in
the others, unless all that appear shall consent to such delay, or the cause
is continued for other reasons. [C. ’7 3, § 2627; R., § 2811.]
SEC. 3543. Notice of action pending. Wllen a petition has been ﬁled
affecting real estate, the action is pending so as to charge third persons
with notice of its pendency, and, while pending, no interest can be acquired
by third persons in the subject-matter thereof as against the plaintifff ‘s
rights, if the real property affected be situated in the county where the peti
tion is ﬁled. 

SEC. 3544. In another county. When any part of real property, the
subject of an action, is situated in any other county than the one in which
the action is brought, the plaintifff must, in order to aﬁect third persons with
constructive notice of the pendency thereof, ﬁle with the clerk of the district
court of such county a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties, the object of the action, and adescription of the prop
erty in that county affected thereby, who shall at once index and enter a
memorandum thereof in the encumbrance book, and, from the time of such
indexing, the pendency of the action shall be constructive notice to subse
quent purchasers or encumbrancers thereof, who shall be bound by all the
proceedings taken after the ﬁling of such notice, to the same extent as if
parties to the action. Within two months after the determination of the action,
there shall also be ﬁled with such clerk a certiﬁed copy of the ﬁnal order,
judgment or decree, who shall enter and index the same as though rendered
in that county, or such notice of pendency shall cease to be constructive
notice. 
SEC. 3546. When permitted—issues tried. separately. Causes
of action of whatever kind, where each may be prosecuted by the same kind
of proceedings, if held by the same party, and against the same party, in
the same rights, and if action on all may be brought and tried in that county,
may be joined in the same petition; but the court may direct all or any
portion of the issues joined to be tried separately, and may determine the
order thereof. 

SEC. 3546. Plaintiﬁ‘ may strike out. The plaintifff may at any time
before the ﬁnal submission of the case to the jury, or to the court when the
trial is by
the court, strike from his petition any cause of action or part
thereof. 
SEC. 3547. Motion to strike out. The court, at any time before the answer is filed, upon motion ofthe defendant, shall strike out of the petition any cause or causes of action improperly joined with others.

SEC. 3548. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of action shall be waived, unless made as provided int he last preceding section.

SEC. 3549. When a motion is sustained on the
ground of misjoinder of causes of action, the court, on motion of the plain
tiﬁ, shall allow him, with or without costs, in his discretion, to ﬁle several
petitions, each including such of said causes of action as may be joined, and
an action shall be docketed for each of said petitions, and the causes shall
be proceeded in without further service, the court ﬁxing by order the time
of pleading therein. 

SEC. 3550. Time to plead. The defendant shall, in an action com
menced in a court of record, demur or answer to the original petition, or
assail the same by motion, before noon of the second, day of the term. 

SEC. 3551. Motions and demurrers. All demurrers and motions
assailing a pleading shall be in writing, and ﬁled before answer or reply
has been ﬁled to the pleading assailed, except as provided in this chapter,
and specify the causes on which they are founded, and none other shall be
argued or considered; but one motion and one demurrer assailing such plead
ing shall be ﬁled, unless such pleading is amended after the ﬁling of a motion
or demurrer thereto. 

SEC. 3552. Subsequent pleadings. Each party shall so demur, assail
by motion, answer or reply to all subsequent pleadings, including amend
ments thereto and substitutes therefore, before noon of the day succeeding
that on which the
pleading is ﬁled, but all

time the cause is reached for trial.

SEC. 3553. The day on which the judge actually
opens court shall, for the purpose of timing the pleading, be considered the
[(3. ’73, § 2637; R., § 2857.]
ﬁrst day of the term.
SEC. 3554. Extension of time.
The court may extend the time for
ﬁling any pleading beyond that herein ﬁxed, but shall do so with due regard
to making up issues at the earliest day practicable.

SEC. 3555. Demurrer or motion suspends other pleadings—sub
mission. A motion or demurrer assailing any pleading, or count thereof,
suspends the necessity of ﬁling any other pleading thereto until the same has
been determined, and the next pleading shall be ﬁled by the morning of the day
succeeding such determination; and all motions and demurrers shall be argued
and submitted on the morning of the day succeeding the ﬁling thereof, or at
such other time as is ordered by the court, unless the cause is sooner reached
for trial. 
SEC. 3566. Not Withdrawn. A motion or demurrer once ﬁled shall
not be withdrawn without the consent of the adverse party in writing, or
given in open court, or of the court. C.’73, § 2642; R., § 2870.]
SEC. 3557. Pleadings deﬂned— ' g-forms abolished. Pleadings
are the written statements by the parties of their respective claims and
defenses and are:
1. The petition of the plaintiﬁ;
2. The motion, demurrer or answer of the defendant;
3. The motion, demurrer or reply of the plaintifff;
4. The motion, or demurrer of the defendant.
The ﬁling of a pleading or motion in the clerk’s oﬂice during a term, and
a memorandum of such ﬁling made in the appearance docket within the time
allowed, shall be equivalent to ﬁling the same in open court. All technical
forms of action and pleading, all common counts, general issues, and all
ﬁctions, are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading in civil actions,
and the rules by which their suﬁiciency is to be determined, are those pre
scribed in the code. 

SEC. 3558. Copy ﬂ1ed—fee—ta.king ﬁles from oﬁlee. Every party,
at the time of ﬁling any petition, answer, reply, demurrer or motion, except
a motion for continuance or change of venue, shall ﬁle with the’ same one
plain copy thereof for the use of the adverse party, and, on failure to do so,
the cause may be continued at the option of the adverse party, or the paper
so ﬁled stricken from the ﬁles. A fee of ten cents per hundred words shall
be allowed for all copies and taxed with the costs. The original ﬁles shall
be taken from the clerk ’s office only on order of the judge by leaving with
the clerk a receipt for the same. 

SEC. 3559. Petition—what to conta.in—counts—divisions—para
graphs. The petition must contain:
1. The name of the court and county in which the action is brought;
2. The names of the p
arties to the action, plaintifffs and defendants, fol
lowed by the words, “petition at law” or “petition in equity,” as the case
may be;
3. A statement of the facts constituting the plaintiiI’s cause of action;
4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff considers himself entitled,
and if for money, the amount thereof;
5. Where the petition contains more than one cause of action, each must
be stated wholly in a count or division by itself, and must be suﬂicient in
itself; but one prayer for judgment may include a sum based on all counts
seeking a money remedy. In a petition by equitable proceedings, each divi
sion shall also be separated into paragraphs numbered as such, and each
paragraph shall contain, as near as may be convenient, a complete and
distinct statement. 

SEC. 3560. Amended before answer. The plaintifff, without prejudice
to the proceedings already had, may amend his petition, without leave, at
any time before the answer is ﬁled, notice thereof being given the defend
ant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to
thereto as he had to the original petition.

SEC. 3561. Demurrer-causes of. The defendant may demur to the
petition only where it appears on its face:
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or
the subject of the action;
2. That the plaintiﬁ has not legal capacity to sue;
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the
same cause;
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifffs or defendants;
5. That the facts stated in the petition do not entitle the plaintiﬁ to the
relief demanded;
6.
That the petition, on the face thereof, shows that the cause of action
is barred by the statute of limitations; or fails to show it to be in writing,
where it should be so evidenced; or, if founded on an account or writing as
evidence of indebtedness, that neither such writing or account or copy
thereof is incorporated into or attached to the
pleading or a sufficient reason stated for not doing so.

SEC. 3662. How speciﬁc. A demurrer must specify
pleading; and it shall not be sufficient to
the grounds of objection to the
state the objection in the terms of the
and number
preceding section, except that a
demurrer to an equitable petition, for the ﬁfth reason of said section, may
be stated in the terms thereof.

SEC. 3563. Objection raised by answer-arrest ofjudgment. When
any of the matters enumerated as grounds of demurrer do not appear on
stated by the petition do not entitle the
If the facts
the face of the petition, the objection may be taken by answer.
plaintifff to any relief whatever,
advantage may be taken of it by motion in arrest of judgment before judg
ment is entered.

SEC. 3564. Demurrer to one of several causes-eifect of demurrer
and ruling. The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action alleged in the petition, and answer as to the residue.
shall be considered as an admission of the allegations of the
pleading
demurred to for the purposes of demurrer, and for such purposes only; and
when a demurrer shall be overruled and the party demurring shall answer
or reply, the ruling on the demurrer shall not be considered as an adjudi
cation of any question raised by
ciency of the
A demurrer
the demurrer; and in such case the suffi
pleading thus attacked shall be determined as if no demurrer
had been ﬁled. No pleading shall be held suilicient on account of a failure
to demur thereto.

SEC. 3565. Joinder in demurrer—answering, amending or plead
ing over.
The opposite party shall be deemed to join in a. demurrer when
ever he shall not amend the pleading to which it is addressed. Upon a demur
rer being overruled, the party demurring may answer or reply. Upon a
decision of a demurrer, if the adverse party fail to amend or plead over, the
same consequences shall ensue as though a verdict had passed against the 
plaintiﬁ or the defendant had made default, as the case may be.

SEC. 3566. conta.in—distinct defenses. The answer shall contain:
1. The name of the court and county
, and of the plaintifffs and defendants,
but when there are several plaintifffs and defendants it shall only be neces
sary to give the ﬁrst name of each class, with the words “and others";
2. A general denial of each allegation of the petition, or of any knowl
edge or information thereof suﬂicient to form a belief;
3. A special denial of each allegation of the petition controverted by the
defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief;
4. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense;
5. A statement of any new matter constituting a counterclaim.
The defendant may set forth in his answer as many causes of defense or
counterclaim, whether legal or equitable, as he may have.

SEC. 3567. Answer of guardian. The guardian of a minor or other
person, or attorney for a person in prison, must deny in the answer all the
material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.

SEC. 3568. Divisions of answer.
As to defense by guardian, see Q 3482 and
Each aﬁirmative defense shall be
stated in a distinct division of the answer, and must be sufficient in itself,
and must intelligibly refer to that
to apply.

SEC. 3569. No prayer. In the defense part of the an answer or reply, it shall not be necessary to make a prayer for judgment. 

SEC. 3570. Counter-claim-—how sta.ted—what may constitute.
Each counterclaim must be stated in a distinct count or division, and must be:
1. When the action is founded on contract, a cause of action also arising
on contract, or ascertained by the decision of a court;
2. A cause of action in favor of the defendants, or some of them, against
the
plaintifffs, or some of them, arising out of the contracts or transactions
set forth in the petition or connected with the subject of the action;
3. Any
of the
new matter constituting a cause of action in favor of the defend
ant, or all of the defendants if more than one, against the
plaintifff, or all
plaintifffs if more than one, and which the defendant or defendants
might have brought when suit was commenced, or which was then held,
either matured or not, if matured when so plead.

SEC. 3571. Equitable a.nswer—parag'raphs. An equitable division
must also be separated into paragraphs and numbered, as required in regard
to an equitable cause of action in the petition. [C. ’73, § 2660; R., § 2885.]
SEC. 3572. Counter-claim by co-maker or surety. A co-maker or
surety, when sued alone, may, with the consent of his co-maker or principal,
avail himself by way of counterclaim of a debt or liquidated demand due
from the plaintifff at the commencement of the action to such co-maker or
principal, but the plaintifff may meet such counterclaim in the same way as
if made by the co-maker or principal himself. 

SEC. 3573. New party. When a new party is necessary to a ﬁnal
decision upon a counterclaim, the court may either permit such party to be
made, or direct that it be stricken out of the answer and made the subject of
a separate action. [C. ’73, § 2662; R., § 2888, 2890.]
SEC. 3574. Cross-petition. When a defendant has a cause of action
aﬁecting the subject-matter of the action against a co-defendant, or a person
not a party to the action, he may, in the same action, ﬁle a cross-petition
against the co-defendant or other person. The defendants thereto may be
notiﬁed as in other cases, and defense thereto shall be made in the time and
manner prescribed in regard to the original petition, and with the same
right of obtaining provisional remedies applicable to the case. The prosecution of the cross-petition shall not delay the trial of the original action, when a judgment can be rendered therin that will not prejudice the rights fo the parties to the cross-petition.

SEC. 3575. When the facts stated in the answer.
or any count or division thereof, are not sufficient to constitute a defense or
counterclaim, the adverse party may demur, and shall be held to the same
certainty in the statement of the grounds therefore as obtains in a demurrer
to the £)8l3llJ'lOIl, and with like results attendant upon the ruling thereon.

SEC. 3576. Rep1y—when necessary. There shall be no reply except:
1. Where a counterclaim is alleged;
2. Where some matter is alleged in the answer to which the
plaintifff
claims to have a defense by reason of the existence of some fact Which
avoids the matter alleged in the answer.

SEC. 3577. Statements of. When a reply must be ﬁled, it shall con
sist of:
1. ’ A general or speciﬁc denial of each allegation or counterclaim con
troverted, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
2. Any new matter, not inconsistent with the petition, constituting a
defense to the matter alleged in the answer; or the matter in the answer may
be confessed, and any new matter alleged, not inconsistent with the peti
tion, which avoids the same, but an allegation of new matter in avoidance
shall not be treated as a waiver of the denial of the allegations of the answer
implied by law.

SEC. 3578. Defenses to counter-c1aim—pa.rag'raphs.
of defenses, negative or afﬁrmative, are pleadable to a counterclaim, and
each aﬁirmative matter of defense in the reply shall be suﬂicient in itself,
and must intelligibly refer to the part of the answer to which it is intended
to apply. A division of equitable matter must also be separated into para
graphs and numbered, as required in case of such matter in the answer.

SEC. 3579. Demurrer to reply. When the facts stated in the reply
do not amount to a sufficient defense, the defendant may demur, subject to
the same requirements of certainty in statement of grounds thereof as obtain
in demurrer to the petition, and with like results attendant upon the ruling

see notes to preceding section.
SEC. 3680. Veri.ﬂcation—when necessary. Every pleading must be
subscribed by the party or his attorney, and when any pleading in a case
shall be veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, all subsequent pleadings, except motions and
demurrers, shall be veriﬁed also; and in all cases of veriﬁcation of a plead
ing, the aﬁidavit shall be to the effect that the aﬁiant believes the statements
there to be true. 

Sec. 3581. Wehre a corporation is a party, the affidavit may be made by any officer or agent thereof.

SEC. 3582. When there are several
parties united in interest, the affidavit may be made by any one of them.

SEC. 3583. By agent or attorney. If the pleading is founded on a
written instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument is
in possession of the agent or attorney, the affidavit may be made by such
agent or attorney, so far as relative to the statement of the cause of action
thereon; but when relief is asked other than a money judgment or decree of
foreclosure, the afﬁdavit must contain averments showing competency, as
herein provided. 

SEC. 3584. If the statements of a plead
ing are known to any person other than the party, such person may make
the afﬁdavit, which shall contain averments showing afﬁant competent to
make the same.

SEC. 3585. Veriﬁcation of counterclaim. Where the petition is not
veriﬁed, and the answer contains a counterclaim, the same may be veriﬁed
apart from the defense part of the answer, and the foregoing provisions are
applicable to the counterclaim as if the same were a separate pleading.

SEC. 3586. When veriﬁcation not required. Veriﬁcation shall not be
required to any pleading of a. guardian, executor or prisoner in the peniten
tiary, nor to any pleading controverting the answer of a garnishee, nor to
one grounded on an injury to the person or the character. 
SEC. 3587. Crimination not required. When it can be seen from the
pleading to be answered that an admission of the truth of its allegations
might subject the party to a criminal prosecution, no veriﬁcation shall be
required. 
SEC. 3588. Failure to verify. If a pleading is not duly veriﬁed, it
may be stricken out on motion; but such defect will be waived if the other
party responds thereto, or proceeds to trial without such motion. 

SEC. 3589. When verification applicable to amount claimed. The
veriﬁcation of the pleading does not apply to the amount claimed, except
in actions founded on contract, express or implied, for the payment of money
only. 

SEC. 3590. Effect of veriﬁcation. The veriﬁcation shall not make
other or greater proof necessary on the side of the adverse party. 

SEC. 3591. Amendments not veriﬁed, Amendments may be made
without being veriﬁed, unless a new and distinct cause of action or counter
claim is thereby introduced, in which case they shall be veriﬁed as other
pleadings. 

SEC. 3592. Pleading in slander and libel. In an action for slander
or libel, it shall not be necessary to state any extrinsic facts for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintifff of any defamatory matter out of
which the cause of action arose, or that the matter was used in a. defamatory
sense; but it shall be suiﬁcient to state the defamatory sense in which such
matter was used, and that the same was spoken or published concerning the
plaintiﬁ. 

SEC. 3693. Matter in mitigation—justiﬁcation. In any action brought
to recover damages for an injury to person, character or property, the defend
ant may set forth, in a. distinct division of his answer, any facts, of which
evidence is legally admissible, to mitigate or otherwise reduce the damages,
whether a complete defense or justiﬁcation be pleaded or not, and he may give
in evidence the mitigating circumstances, whether he proves the defense or
justiﬁcation or not, and no mitigating circumstances shall be proved unless
pleaded, except such as are shown by or grow out of the testimony introduced
by the adverse party; and in actions for slander or libel, an unproved allegation
of the truth of the matter charged shall not be deemed proof of malice, unless
the jury on the whole case ﬁnds that such defense was made with malicious
intent. 

Snc. 3594. Intervention. Any
person who has an interest i11 the
matter in litigation, in the success of either of the
parties to the action, or
against both, may become a party to an action between other persons, either
by joining the plaintifff in claiming what is sought by the
uniting with the defendant in resisting the claim of the
demanding anything adversely to both the
petition, or by
plaintifff, or by
plaintifff and defendant, either
before or after issue has been joined in the cause, and before the trial com
mences. 

SEC. 3595. The court shall determine
upon the intervention at the same time that the action is decided, and the
intervenor has no right to delay; and if the claim of the intervenor is not
sustained he shall pay all costs of the intervention.

SEC. 3596. By petition. The intervention shall be by petition, which must set forth the facts on which it rests, and all the pleadings therein shall be governed by the same principles and rules as obtain in other pleadings. But if such petition is filed during term, the court shall direct the time in which as answer shall be filed thereto.

SEC. 3597. Varia.nce—a.mendments. No variance between the alle
gations in a pleading and the proof is to be regarded as material, unless it
has actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his
action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has
been so misled, that fact must be shown by proof to the satisfaction of the
court, and such proof must also show in what respect he has been so misled,
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such
terms as may be just.

SEC. 3598. Not material. When the variance is not material, the
court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and order
an immediate amendment without cost.

SEC. 3599. Failure of proof. When, however, the allegation of the
claim or defense to which the
proof is directed is unprovod in its general
meaning, it shall not be held to be a case of variance within the last two sec
tions, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 3600. Amendments allowed. The court may, on motion of either
party at any time, in furtherance of justice and on such terms as may be
proper, permit such party to amend any pleadings or proceedings by adding
or striking out the name of a party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other resp
allegations material to the case, or,
ect, or by inserting other
when the amendment does not change
substantially the claim or defense, by conforming the
pleading or proceed
ings to the facts proved. 

SEC. 3601. The court, in every stage of an action,
must disregard any error or defect'in the proceeding which does not aifect
the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 3602. Continuance on account of amendment. When a party
amends a pleading or proceeding, the case shall not be continued in conse
quence thereof, unless the court is satisﬁed, by aﬁidavit or otherwise, that
the adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence of such amend
ment; if the court is thus satisﬁed, a continuance may be granted to some
day in the same or the next term of said court. 

SEC. 3603. All matters of supplement or
amendment, whether of addition or subtraction, shall not be made by
erasure or interlineation of the original, or by addition thereto, but upon a
separate paper, which shall be ﬁled and constitute, with the original, but
one pleading. But if it be stated in such paper that it is a substitute for
the former pleading intended to be amended, it shall be so taken, but the
pleading superseded by the substitute shall not be withdrawn from the ﬁles.

SEC. 3604. Interrogatories annexed to pleading. Either party may
annex to his petition, answer or reply written interrogatories to any one or
more of the adverse parties, concerning any of the material facts in issue
in the action, the answer to which, on oath, may be read by either party as
a deposition between the party interrogating and the party answering.

SEC. 3605. Answers thereto. The party answering shall not be con
ﬁned to responding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new
matter concerning the same cause of action, which shall likewise be read as
a deposition. 

SEC. 3606. Time of responding. Theinterrogatories shallbeanswered
at the same time the pleading to which they are annexed is answered or
replied to, unless they are excepted to by the adverse party; in which event
the court shall determine as to the propriety of the interrogatories pro
pounded, and which of them shall be answered, and within what time such
answer shall be made. 

SEC. 3607. Continuance for failure to answer. The trial of an
action by ordinary proceedings shall not be postponed on account of the
failure to answer interrogatories, if the party interrogated is present in
court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined; nor in case of absence,
unless an affidavit is ﬁled showing the facts the party believes will be proved
by the answers thereto, and that the party has not ﬁled the interrogatories
for the purpose of delay; whereupon, if the party will consent that the facts
stated in the aﬂidavit shall be considered as admitted by those inter
rogated, the trial shall not be postponed for that cause. 

SEC. 3608. Particularity required. The party, in answering such
interrogatories, shall distinguish clearly between what is stated from his
personal knowledge and what from information or belief merely. An
unqualiﬁed statement of a fact shall be considered as made of his personal
knowledge. 
SEC. 3609. How veriﬁed. The answers to the interrogatories shall be
veriﬁed by the aﬁidavit of the party making them, to the effect that the
statements therein made of his own personal knowledge are true, and those
made from the information of others he believes to be true. And when the
party interrogated is a corporation, the answers and affidavit verifying the
same shall be made by the oﬁicers or agents of such corporation who have
knowledge of the subjects and matters covered by the interrogatories. 

SEC. 3610. Eﬁect of failure to answer. Where a. party ﬁling inter
rogatories shall also ﬁle an aﬂidavit that he verily believes the subject of
the interrogatories, or any of them, is in the personal knowledge of the
opposite party, and that his answers thereto, if truly made from such
knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense, or any part thereof, and the
opposite party shall fail to answer the same within the time allowed there
for, or by the court extended, the claim or defense, or the part thereof,
according to such affidavit, shall be deemed to be sustained, and judgment
given accordingly. 

SEC. 3611. Answers compelled. The court may compel answers to
interrogatories by process of contempt, and may, on the failure of the party
to answer them, after reasonable time allowed therefore, dismiss the petition,
or sgrike the pleading of the party so failing from the ﬁles. 
SEC. 3612. Denial as to time, sum, quantity, or place. In all cases
in which a denial is made by answer or reply concerning a time, sum,
quantity or place alleged, the party denying shall declare whether such
denial is applicable to every time, sum, quantity or place and, if not, what
time, sum, quantity or place he admits. [C. ’73, § 2701; R., § 2901.] ~
SEC. 3613. Allegations as to time. When time is material, the day,
month and year, or when there is a continued act, its duration, must be
alleged. When time is not material it need not be stated, and, if stated,
need not be proved. 

SEC. 3614. It shall be necessary to allege a place only when it forms a part of the substance of the issue.

SEC. 3615. Evidence under denial. Under a denial of an allegation,
no evidence shall be introduced which does not tend to negative some fa-ct
the party making
the controverted allegation is bound to prove. 

SEC. 3616. Counts and divisions numbered. The counts of the
petition, and divisions of a petition in equity, must be consecutively num
bered as such, and so must the divisions of the answer and reply.

SEC. 3617. Correction of defect. If any pleading does not conform
to the foregoing requirements as to form, divisions or numbering, or the
distinct or separate statements of its causes of action or defense, the court
may, on its own motion or that of the adverse
corrected, on such terms as it may impose.
SEC. 3618. Shamdefenses-redundant matter.
party, order the same to be
Sham and irrelevant
answers and defenses, and irrelevant and redundant matter in all pleadings,
may be stricken out on motion, upon such terms as the court may, in its
discretion, impose.

SEC. 3619. In pleading a statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer thereto so as to plainly designate it, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 3620. Inconsistent defenses may be stated in the same answer or reply, and when a verification is required, it must be to the effect that the party believes on or the other to be true, but cannot determine which.

SEC. 3621. When a party claims a. right in dero
gation of the general law, or when his claim is founded upon an exception
of any kind, he shall set forth such claim or such exception particularly in
his pleading.

SEC. 3622. Every material allegation in a
pleading not controverted by a subsequent pleading shall, for the purposes
of the action, be taken as true, but the allegations of the answer not relat
ing to a counterclaim, and of the reply, are to be deemed controverted. An
allegation of value, or amount of damage, shall not be held true by a. failure
to controvert it. A party desiring to admit any allegations which, by this sec
tion, would be considered controverted may ﬁle at any time a written admis
sion thereof.

SEC. 3623. If a pleading is founded on
an account-, a bill of particulars thereof, with the items therein consecutively
numbered, must be incorporated into or attached to such pleading, and con
sidered a portion thereof, subject to be made more speciﬁc on motion, and
shall deﬁne and limit the proof, but may be amended as other pleadings.

SEC. 3624. Account deemed true. In all actions for money due upon
an open account, when the defendant has been personally served with the orig
inal notice therein, and the petition is duly veriﬁed, and where abill of par
ticulars of said account is incorporated into or attached to the petition, if
the defendant makes default or fails to controvert or deny the same or any
of the items thereof by pleading duly veriﬁed, the account, or so muc
thereof as is not so cont roverted or denied, shall be taken as true and admitted.


SEC. 3625. Judgment-how pleaded. In pleading a judgment, or the
determination of a court or oiﬁcer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but it may be stated to
have been duly given or made. 

SEC. 3626. Conditions precedent. In pleading the performance of
conditions precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts con
stituting such performance, but the party may state, generally, that he duly
performed all the conditions on his part. 

SEC. 3627. Action in representative capacity. A plaintifff suing as
a corporation, partnership, executor, guardian, or in any other way imply
ing corporate, partnership, representative or other than individual capacity,
need not state the facts constituting such capacity or relation, but may aver
the same generally, or as a legal conclusion, and where a defendant is held
in such capacity or relation, a plaintifff may aver such capacity or relation
in t-he same general way.

SEC. 3628. Denial-facts must be stated. If either of the allegations
contemplated in the three preceding sections is controverted, it shall not be
sufﬁcient to do‘ so in terms contradictory of the allegation, but the facts
relied on shall be speciﬁcally stated. 

SEC. 3629. Matters speciﬁcally pleaded. Any defense showing that
a. contract, written or oral, or any instrument sued on, is void or voidable;
or that the instrument was delivered to a person as an escrow, or showing
matter of justiﬁcation, excuse, discharge or release, and any defense which
admits the facts of the adverse pleading, but by some other matter seeks to
avoid their legal effect, must be specially pleaded.

SEC. 3630. Motion for more speciﬁc statement. When the allega
tions of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise nature of
the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may, on motion, require it
.to be made more deﬁnite and certain. No pleading which recites or refers
to a contract shall be suﬁiciently speciﬁc unless it states whether it is in
writing or not. Such motion shall point out wherein the pleading is not
suﬂiciently speciﬁc, or it shall be disregarded, and if the reason for such
demand exists outside of the
pleadings, the motion must state the same, and
be supported by aﬂidavit. 

SEC. 3631. Title of cause. The title of the cause shall not be changed
i§n guy ]of its stages of transit from one court to another. [C.’73, § 2721; R.,
2 49.
SEC. 3632. Judicial notice.
Matters of which judicial notice is taken
need not be stated in a pleading. 
SEC. 3633. Pleading conveyance. When a party claims by convey
anceg, 2l;)e m]ay state it according to its legal eﬁect or name. 
SEC. 3634. Pleading estate. It shall not be necessary to allege the
commencement of either a particular or a su erior estate, unless it be essen
tial to the merits of the case. 
SEC. 3635. Injuries to goods. In actions for injuries to goods and
chattels, their kind or species shall be alleged. 
SEC. 8636. Injuries to real property. In actions for injuries to real
property, the petition shall describe the property, and when the injury is to
an incorporeal hereditament, shall describe the property in respect of which
the right is claimed, as well as the right itself, either by the numbers by
which the property is designated in the national survey, or by its abuttals,
or by its courses and distances, or by any name which it has acquired by
reputation certain enough to identify it. 
SEC. 3637. Malice. When the party intends to prove malice to aﬁect
damages, he must aver the same. 

SEC. 3638. In an action on a bond with condi
tions, the party suing thereon shall notice the conditions and allege the
facts constituting the breaches relied on.

SEC. 3639. Amount of proof. A party shall not be compelled to prove
more than is necessary to entitle him to the relief asked for, or any lower
degree included therein, nor more than suﬂicient to sustain his defense.

Sec. 3640. Denial of genuineness of signature. When a written instrument is referred to in a pleading, and the same or a copy thereof is incorporated in or attached to such pleading, the signature thereto, and to any indorsement thereon, shall be deemed genuine and admitted, unless the
person whose signature the same purports to be shall, in a pleading or
writing ﬁled within the time allowed for pleading, deny under oath the
genuineness of such signature. If such instrument is not negotiable, and
purports to be executed by a person not a party to the proceeding, the
signature thereto shall not be deemed genuine or admitted, if a. party to the
proceeding, in the manner and within the time before mentioned, states
under oath that he has no knowledge or information suﬂicient to enable him
to form a belief as to the genuineness of such signature. The person whose
signature purports to be signed to such instrument shall, on demand, be
entitled to an inspection thereof. 

SEC. 8641. Supplemental pleading. Either party may be allowed to
make a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts inateria-1 to
the case which have happened or have come to his knowledge since the
ﬁling of the former pleading; nor shall such new pleading be considered a
waiver of foriner pleadings.

SEC. 3642. Matter in abatement. Matter in abatement maybe stated
in the answer or reply, either together with or without causes of defense in
bar, and no one of such causes shall be deemed to overrule the other; nor
shall a party, after trial on matter of abatement, be allowed in the same
action to answer or reply matter in bar.

SEC. 3643. Any defense arising after the com
mencement of any action shall be stated according to the fact, without any
formal commencement or conclusion, and any answer which does not state
whether the defense therein set up arose before or after action shall be held
to be of matter arising before action. 
SEC. 3644. Consolidation of actions. When two or more actions are
pending in the same court which might have been joined, the defendant
may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause
why the same shall not be consolidated, and if no suiiicient cause is shown,
it shall be done.

SEC. 3645. Lost pleading-substitution, If an original pleading is
lost, or withheld by any one, the court may order a copy thereof to be sub
stituted, or a substituted pleading to be ﬁled. 

SEC. 3646. Records not to be altered. No record shall be amended
or impaired by the clerk or other officer of the court, or by any other per
son without the order of such court, or of some court of competent authority.

SEC. 3647. Issues. Issues arise in the pleadings where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the other.
They are of two kinds:
1. Of law;
2. Of fact. 

SEC. 3648. Of fact and of law. An issue of fact arises:
l. Upon a material allegation of fact in the petition denied by the answer;
2. Upon material allegations of new matter in the answer, either denied
by a reply or by operation of law;
* 3. Upon allegations of new matter in the reply, which shall be con
sidered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading.
i Any other issue is one of law. 

SEC. 3649. Trial deﬁned. Issues of law must be tried ﬁrst. A trial
i§ a judicial examination of the issues in an action, whether they be issues
of law or of fact. 

SEC. 3650. How issues tried. Issues of fact in an ordinary action
must be tried by jury, unless the same is waived. All other issues shall be
tried by the court, unless a reference
thereof is made.

SEC. 3651. Method of trial in ordinary a.ctions—appea.1. All issues
of fact in ordinary actions sh-all be tried upon oral evidence taken in open
court, except that depositions may be used as provided by law; and, upon
appeal, no evidence shall go to the supreme court except such as may
be
necessary to explain any exception taken in the cause, and such court shall
hear and try the case only on the legal errors so presented. 

SEC. 3662. In equitable actions—certiﬂca.te of evidence—tria.l anew
on appeal. In equitable actions wherein issues of fact are joined, all the
evidence offered in the trial shall be taken down in writing, or the court may
order the evidence, or any part thereof, to be taken in the form of deposi
tions, or either party may, at pleasure, take his testimony, or any part
thereof, by deposition. All the evidence so taken shall be certiﬁed by the
judge at any time within six months after the entry of a. ﬁnal decree, and
the evidence and certiﬁcate be made a. part of the record, and go on appeal
to the supreme court, which shall try the cause anew. 

SEC. 3653. In equitable causes, where
the evidence is taken in the form of depositions, the court may require to
be submitted with the arguments an abstract of the
pleadings and evidence,
substantially as required by the rules of the supreme court for abstracts in
appeals in equitable causes, except that the same need not be printed.

SEC. 3654. Finding of facts.
In all trials of fact by the court, other
than those contemplated in the second preceding section, the court shall, if
either party requests it, give its decision in writing, stating separately the
facts found and the legal conclusion founded thereon; and the whole deci
sion shall be a
special verdict.

SEC. 3655. Trial term. Except where otherwise provided, causes shall be tried at the first term after legal and timely service has been made.
Sec. 3656. In equitable actions. The appearance terms shall not be the trial term for equitable actions, except those brought for divorce, to foreclose mortgages and other instruments of writing whereby a lien or charge on property is created, or to enforce mechanics' liens.

SEC. 3657. The court may, in its discretion, allow
separate trials between the plaintifff and any defendant, or of any cause of
action united with others, or of any issue in an action; and such separate
trials may be had at the same or different terms of the court, as circum
stances may require. 

SEC. 3658. Trial notice. In any case once continued, where an answer
is on ﬁle, either party desiring to bring such cause on for trial at any term
shall, at least ten days before such term, ﬁle with the clerk a notice of trial,
and no such cause shall stand for trial unless a trial notice be so ﬁled,
except by consent of parties. But after the commencement of the term, the
court may in its discretion, by order entered of record, permit notices of
trial to be entered in the same manner, ten days prior to such date as the
court may name in such order. Such order may be general, and not entered
of record in each particular case. The clerk, in preparing the court calen
dars, shall note thereon, op osite the title of each cause noticed for trial,
the words, “For trial,” whic words shall also appear on the printed calen
dar. This rule shall not apply to appearance or criminal cases, nor to pro
ceedings in probate. 

SEC. 3659. Assignments of trial causes—hearing of motions and
demurrers. On the ﬁrst day of the term, or as soon thereafter as practi
cable, the court may make an assignment of the trial causes, which assign
ment shall ﬁx the day of the term on which each cause will be tried, and
parties will be required to conform to this order of trial. Further assign
ments may be made by the court as often as necessary. The court may
also designate particular times for the hearing of motions and demurrers.

SEC. 3660. Docketing appeals from justices—other appeals. In
appeals from justices’ courts or other inferior tribunals in civil causes, the
appellant shall cause the case to be docketed by noon of the second day of
the term to which the Same is returnable, and, in case of his failure to do
so, the appellee may procure the case to be docketed, and thereupon will
be entitled to have the judgment below afﬁrrned, or to have the case set
down'for trial upon its merits, as he may elect, and the provisions of this
code as to appeals from justices’ courts shall be applicable, so far as may be,
to other ap eals contemplated in this section. [Same, § 4.]
SEC. 36 1. Calendar. The clerk shall keep a calendar distinguishing,
ﬁrst, criminal causes, and next, civil causes, and arranging each in the
order of their commencement, and, if the court so order, shall, under the
direction of the court or judge, apportion the same to as many days as is
believed necessary, and, at the request of any party to a cause, or his attor
ney, shall issue subpoenas accordingly. The clerk shall furnish the court
and the bar with a sufficient number of printed copies of the calendar. 

SEC. 3662. Continua.nces—application for. When time is asked for
making application for continuance, the cause shall not lose its place on
the calendar, or it may be continued at the option of the other party, and
at the cost of the party applying therefore, for which cost judgment may at
once be entered by the clerk, unless the contrary be agreed between the
parties or ordered by the court.
SEC. 3663. Causes for.
A continuance shall not be granted for any
cause growing out of the fault or negligence of the party applying there
-for; subject to this rule, it may be allowed for any cause which satisﬁes
the court that substantial justice will thereby be more nearly obtained. 

SEC. 3664. .Aﬁdavits—what must show. Motions for continuance
on account of the absence of evidence must be founded on the aﬂidavit of
the party, his agent or attorney, and must state:
1. The name and residence of such witness, or, if not known, that the
afﬁant has used reasonable diligence to ascertain them, and in either case
facts showing reasonable grounds of belief that his attendance or testimony
will be procured at the next term;
2. Efforts constituting due diligence which have been used to obtain such
witness, or his testimony;
3. What particular facts, as distinguished from legal conclusions, the
afﬁant believes the witness will prove, and that the afﬁant believes them to
be true, and that he knows of no other witness by whom such facts can be
fully proven.

SEC. 3665. Admission by opposite party.
If the application is
insufficient, it shall be overruled; if sufficient, the cause shall be continued,
unless the adverse party will admit that the Witness, if present, would testify
to the facts therein stated, in which event the cause shall not be continued,
but the party may read as evidence of such witness the facts held by the
court to be properly stated. 

SEC. 3666. The motion must be ﬁled on the second
day of the term, if it is then certain that it will have to be made before the
trial, and as soon thereafter as it becomes certain that it will need to be
made, and shall not be allowed to be made when the cause is called for trial.
except for matters which could not by reasonable diligence have been before
that time discovered. If made after the second day of the term, the aﬂida
vit must state facts constituting an excuse for the delay in making it. If
time is taken when the case is called to make such motion, it shall be made
and determined as soon as the court opens after the next ordinary adjourn
ment. 

SEC. 3667. The application may be amended but once unless by permission to supply a clerical error.

SEC. 3668. To such motion, in its original form
or as amended, the adverse party may at once, or within such reasonable
time as the court shall allow, ﬁle written objections, stating wherein he
claims that the same is insufiicicnt, and on such motion and objections no
argument shall be heard unless the court desires it. 

SEC. 3669. Part of record. Such motion and objections shall be a part
of the record, and error in refusing a. continuance or in compelling an elec
tion may be reviewed upon appeal. 

SEC. 3670. Entered on appearance docket.
No copy of a motion for
continuance or of objections thereto nocd be served, but a minute of the ﬁling
thereof shall be entered on the appearance docket.
SEC. 3671. Costs.
Every continuance granted shall be at the cost of
the party applying therefore, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 3672. By agreement. The court shall grant continuances when
ever the parties agree thereto, and provide as to costs as may be stipulated.
SEC. 3673. Case remains on docket. A case continued remains for
all purposes except a trial on the facts. 
SEC. 3674. One of several defendants. When the defenses are dis
tinct, any one of several defendants may continue as to himself. 

SEC. 3675. Report of trial—certiﬁca.te. In all appealable actions
triable by ordinary or equitable proceedings, any party thereto shall be
entitled to have reported the whole proceedings upon the trial or hearing,
and the court or judge shall direct the reporter to make such report in writing
or shorthand, which shall contain the date of the commencement of the
trial, the proceedings irnpaneling the jury, and any objections thereto with
the rulings thereon, the oral testimony at length, and all offers thereof,
all objections thereto, the rulings thereon, the identiﬁcation as exhibits, by
letter or number or other appropriate mark, of all written or other evidence
offered, and by suﬂicient reference thereto, made in the report, to make cer
tain the object or thing offered, all objections to such evidence and the rul
ings thereon, all motions or other pleas orally made and the rulings
thereon, the fact that the testimony was closed, the portions of argiunents
objected to, when so ordered by the court, all objections thereto with the
rulings thereon, all oral comments or statements of the court during the
progress of the trial, and any exceptions taken thereto, the fact that the
jury is instructed, all objections and exceptions to instructions given by the
court on its own motion, the fact that the case is given to the jury, the return
of the verdict and action thereon of whatever kind, and any other pro
ceedings before the court, judge or jury which might be preserved and made
of record by bill of exceptions, and shall note that exception was saved by
the party adversely aﬁected to every ruling made by the court or judge.
Such report shall be certiﬁed by the trial judge and reporter, when demanded
by either party, to the eﬁect that it contains a full, true and complete report
of all proceedings had that are required to be kept, and, when so certiﬁed,
the same shall be ﬁled by the clerk and, with all matters set out or identiﬁed
therein, shall be a part of the record in such action, and constitute a com
plete bill of exceptions. But on a trial before a jury it shall not be neces
sary to take down arguments of counsel or statements of the court, except
his rulings, when not made in the presence of the jury. 

SEC. 3676. Selection of jury. When an action is to betried bya. jury,
the clerk shall select twelve jurors by lot from the regular panel, if there
are enough therein; if not, the deﬁciency shall be supplied as provided in
the chapter on jurors.

SEC. 3677. Challenges. A challenge is an objection made to the trial
jurors, and is of two kinds:
1. To the panel;
2. To an individual juror.
SEC. 3678. Joint challenges. Where there are several parties, plaintifffs or defendants, and no spearate trial is allowed, they shall not sever their challenges but must join in them. 

SEC. 3679. To the panel. A challenge to the panel can be founded only
on a. material departure from the forms prescribed by statute in respect» to
the drawing and return of the jury.

SEC. 3680. When and how made. A challenge to the panel must be
taken before a. juror is sworn, and must be in writing, specifying disti:1ctly
the facts constituting the ground of challenge. 
SEC. 36d1. How tried. A challenge to the panel may be taken by
either party, and upon the trial thereof the oilicers, whether judicial or minis
terial, whose irregularity is complained of, as well as any other persons,
may be examined to prove or dis )1‘O\'8 the facts alleged as the ground of
the challenge. 
SEC. 3682. llowance. If the challenge is sustained by the court, the
jury must be discharged, and its members will be disqualiﬁed from sitting
in the trial in question; if it is overruled, the court shall direct the jury to
be empaneled. 

SEC. 3683. To jurors. A challenge to an individual juror is either preemptory or for cause.
SEC. 3684. When made-determination.
juror appears and before the jury is sworn.
It must be taken when the
Upon the trial of a challeng
the juror challenged shall be sworn, if demanded by either party, and exam
ined as a witness, and must answer every question
pertinent to the inquiry
thereof. 

SEC. 3685. Peremptory. A peremptory challenge is an objection to
a juror for which no reason need be given, but upon which the court shall
exclude him.

SEC. 3686. Each party sh all have the right
The parties shall challenge alter
nately, commencing with the plaintifff, and, the challenges for cause being
ﬁrst exhausted or waived, the parties shall then in turn, in the same order,
exercise the right of peremptory challenge, in such manner as the arties
may agree upon or the court order. 

SEC. 3687. Vacancy ﬁlled. After each challenge, the vacancy shall
be ﬁlled before further challenges are made, and any new juror thus intro
duced may be challenged. [C.’73, § 2772; R., § 3037; C. ’51, § 1775.]
SEC. 3688. For cause. A challenge for cause is an objection to a
juror, and may be for any of the following causes:
1. A conviction of felony;
2. A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by statute to render a
person a competent juror;
3. Such defects in the faculties of mind or organs of the body as render
him incapable of performing the duties of a juror;
4. Consanguinity or aﬂinity within the ninth degree to the adverse party;
5. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, or the client of any
attorney engaged in the cause, master and servant, landlord and tenant, or
being a member of the family or in the employment of the adverse party;
6. Being a party adverse to the challenging party in a civil action, or
having complained against or been accused by him in a criminal prosecution;
7. Having already sat upon the trial of the same issues;
8. Having served as a grand or trial juror in a criminal case based on
the same transaction;
9. When it appears the juror has formed or expressed an unqualiﬁed
opinion on the merits of the controversy, or shows such a state of mind as
will preclude him from rendering a just verdict;
10. Being interested in a like question with the issue to be t1'ied. 

SEC. 3689. How tried. Upon the trial of a challenge to an individual 1
juror, he may be examined as a. witness to prove or disprove the challenge,
and must answer every question pertinent to the inquiry thereon, and other
evidence may be heard. 
ne the law and the fact, and must either allow or disallow the chal
lenge. 
SEC. 691. Persons who keep the seventh day. A person Whose
religious faith requires him to keep the seventh day of the week can not be
<§;ompe1led to attend as a juror on that day. 
SEC. 3692. Exemption. An exemption from service as a juror is not
a cause of challenge, but the privilege of the person exempt. 

SEC. 3693. Attachment for absent jurors. When a cause is called
for trial, and before drawing the jury, either party may require the names
of all the jurors in the panel to be called, and an attachment to be issued
against those who are absent, but the court may, in its discretion, Wait or
not for the return of the attachment.
SEC. 3694. Ballots prepared. The clerk shall prepare separate
ballots containing the names of the persons returned as jurors, which shall
be folded, each in the same manner, as near as may be, and so that the
name thereon shall not be visible, and must deposit them in a box kept for
that purpose. ~
SEC. 3696. Drawing. Before the name of any juror is drawn, the box
must be closed and shaken, so as to intermingle the ballots therein, and the
clerk shall draw such ballots from the box, without seeing the names written
thereon, through the top of the lid thereof.
SEC. 3696. Jurors absent or excused. If a juror is absent when his
name is drawn, or be sot aside or excused from serving on that trial, the
ballot containing his name must be folded and returned to the box as soon
as the jury is sworn.
SEC. 3697. Ballots returned to box. When a. jury is completed, the
ballots containing the names of the jurors sworn must be laid aside and
kept apart from the ballots containing the names of the other jurors until it
is discharged, and must then be again folded and returned to the box, and
so on, as often as a trial is had.

SEC. 3699. Majority verdict—-struck jury. The parties, at any
time before the ﬁnal submission, may agree to take the verdict of the
majority, which agreement, being stated to the court and entered upon the
record, shall bind the parties, and in such case a verdict, signed by any
seven or more and duly rendered, when read and not disapproved by said
majority, shall in every particular be as binding as if made by a full jury;
or, when both parties require it, a struck jury may be ordered, whereupon
eighteen jurors shall be called into the box, and the plaintifff ﬁrst, and then
the defendant, shall strike out one juror in turn until each has struck six,
and the remaining six shall try the cause. 
SEC. 3700. Procedure after ju.ry is sworn— order of evidence.
When the jury has been sworn, the court shall proceed in the following
order:
1. The party on whom rests the burden of proof may brieﬂy state his
claim and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it;
2. The other party may then brieﬂy state his defense and the evidence
by which he expects to sustain it;
3. The party on whom rests the burden of proof in the whole action
must ﬁrst produce his evidence, to be followed by that of the adverse party;
4. The parties then will be conﬁned to rebutting evidence, unless the
court for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permit them to oifer evi
dence in their original case;
5. But one counsel on each side shall examine the same witness. Upon
interlocutory questions, the party moving the court or objecting to testi
mony shall be heard ﬁrst; the respondent may then reply by one counsel,
and the mover rejoining, conﬁnin_n; his remarks to the points ﬁrst stated and
3- pertinent answer to respondent’s argument. Argument on the questions
shall then be closed, unless further requested by the court.

SEC. 8701. Argument-—opening and closing. The parties may then
either submit or argue the case to the jury.
In the argument, the party
then having the burden of the issue shall have the opening and closing, but
shall disclose in the opening all the points relied on in the cause; and if in
the close he should refer to any new material point or fact not relied upon
in the opening, the adverse party shall have the right of reply thereto,
which reply shall close the argument in the case.

SEC. 3702. Waiver of opening. If the party holding the aﬁirmative
waives the opening, he shall be limited in the close simply to a reply to his
adversary ’s argument, otherwise the other party shall have the concluding
argument. 
SEC. 370 . Number of attorneys—court to arrange order. Every
plaintifff or defendant shall be entitled to appear by one attorney, and if
there be but one plaintifff or defendant he may appear by two, and where
there are several defendants having the same or separate defenses and
appearing by the same or different attorneys, the court shall, before argu
ment, arrange their order.
SEC. 3704. Argument restricted. The court may restrict the time
of argument of any attorney to itself, but shall not limit the argument in cases tried to a jury.

SEC. 3705. Instructions—to be in writing. When the argument is
concluded, either party may request instructions to the jury on points of
law, which shall be given or refused by the court. All instructions asked
and the charge of the court, shall be in writing.

SEc. 3706. Modification. If the court refuse a written instruction as demanded, but give the same with a modification, which the court may do
such modiﬁcation shall not be by interlineation or erasure, but shall be well
deﬁned, and shall follow some such characterizing words as “changed thus,”
which words shall themselves indicate that the same was refused as
demanded.

SEC. 3707. Rec0rd—exceptions. All instructions requested or given
shall be ﬁled by the clerk and be a part of the record, and if the giving or
refusal of an instruction is excepted to, it may be noted by the shorthand
reporter, and no reason for such exception need be given.

SEC. 3708-. Numbered-given or refused. The instructions given,
whether by request or otherwise, shall be in consecutively numbered para.
graphs, shall be read to the jury without oral comment or explanation, and
be announced as given, and those refused shall be so marked, and the court,
without reading them, shall announce such refusal. Those given at the
request of either party shall be marked given at the request of the party
asking them, naming him as
plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be.

SEC. 3709. Exceptions after verdict. Either party may take and ﬁle
exceptions to the charge or instructions given, or to the refusal to give any
instructions asked, within three days after the verdict, which shall be a
part of the record, and may include the same in a motion for a new trial,
but in either case the exceptions shall specify the part of the charge
or instruction objected to and the ground of the objection.

SEC. 3710. View of premises by jury. When in the opinion of the
court it is proper for the jury to have a view of the real property which is
the subject of controversy, or the place in which any material fact occurred,
it may order them to be conducted in
a body, under the charge of an oﬂicer,
to the place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by
the court for that purpo
se; while the jury are thus absent, no one, save such
person so selected, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the
trial. 

SEC. 3711. When
submitted to the jury, they may decide in court or retire
for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together, under charge
of an oﬁicer until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court.
The ofﬁcer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communica
tion to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court, and he shall
not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state
of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon. 

SEC. 3712. Separation—a.dvice by court. After the jury is sworn they
shall not be permitted to separate during the trial, unless so ordered by the
court, and, when so ordered, they must be advised by the court that it is
the duty of each one of them not to converse with any other of them, or
with any person, nor to suffer himself to be addressed by any person, on
any subject of the trial, and that, during the same, it is the duty of each one
of t-hem to avoid, as far as possible, fc>1'ming any opinion thereon until the
cause is ﬁnally submitted to them. 
SEC. 3713. Discharge of juror.
a verdict a juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to
may be discharged. In such case the trial shall
If after empaneling a jury and before
perform his duty, he
proceed with the remain
ing jurors if the parties consent, Wl1l('l1 consent shall be entered by the
court or Sll()1'l7l]i1Il(l reporter and become a part of the record; otherwise the
jury sliull bu dist-l1111'ge<_l. 

SEC. 3714. Discharge of jury. The jury may be discharged by the
court on account of any accident or calamity requiring it, or by the consent
of both parties, or when on an amendment a continuance is ordered, or after
they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no
probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 3715. Cause retried. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may
be tried
again immediately, or at a future time, as the court may then direct

SEC. 3716. Adjournment.
entered upon the trial of any
The court may, at any time after having
cause, and in furtherance of justice, order an
adjournment for such time within the term, and subject to such terms and
conditions as to costs and otherwise, as it may think just.
SEC. 3717. What jury may take with them. Upon retiring for
deliberation, the jury may take with them all books of accounts and all
papers which have been received as evidence in the cause, except deposi
tions, which shall not be taken unless all the testimony is in writing
none of the same has been ordered to be struck out.

SEC. 3718. When the jury is absent, the
court may adjourn from time to time in respect to other business, but shall
be regarded as open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted
to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged.
SEC. 3719. Further testimony to correct mistake. At any time
before the cause is ﬁnally submitted to the court or jury, either party may
be permitted by the court to give further testimony to correct an evident
oversight or mistake, but terms may be imposed upon the party obtaining
the privilege. 

SEC. 3720. Additional instructions. After the jury has retired for
deliberation, if they desire to be instructed as to any point of law arising
in the case, they may request the officer to conduct them info court,
which he shall do, when the court may further instruct, which instruction
shall be given in the presence of or after notice to the parties or their coun
sel. Such instruction shall be in writing, be ﬁled as other instructions in
the case, and be a part of the record, and may be excepted to in the same
time and manner as the instructions given before the jury retires.

SEC. 3721. Food and lodging. If, while the jury are kept together,
either during the progress of the trial or after their retirement for delibera
tion, the court orders them to be provided with suitable food and lodging,
it must be provided by the sheriff at the expense of the county.
SEC. 3722. Verdict—l1ow signed and rendered. The verdict must
be in writing, signed by a. foreman chosen by the jury itself, and, when
agreed to, the jury must be conducted into court, their names called, and
the verdict rendered by him and read by the clerk to the jury, and the
inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any juror d
must be sent out again, but if no disagreement is expre
party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is comp
shall be discharged from the case. 

SEC. 3723. Jury polled. When the verdict is anno"
may require the jury to be polled, which shall be done by
asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answe
the jury must be sent out for further deliberation. [C. ’73,
SEC. 3724. Sealed verdict. When by consent of ti
court the jury have been permitted to seal their verdict a
it is rendered, such sealing is equivalent to a renditioi
thereof in open court, nor shall such jury be polled or pe
thereto, unless such course has been agreed upon betwi
open court and entered on the record. 

SEC. 3725. General or special. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is one in which they pronounce generally for the plaintifff or for the defendant upon all or upon any of the issues. 
Sec. 3728. Special defined. A special verdict is one in which the jury finds facts only ; it must present the ultimate facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them, so that nothing remains to the court but to draw from them its conclusions of law.

SEC. 3727. Findings. The jury in any case in which it renders a
general verdict may be required by the court, and must be so required on
the request of any party to the action, to ﬁnd specially upon any particular
questions of fact, to be stated to it in writing, which questions of fact shall
be submitted to the attorneys of the adverse party before argument to the 
jury is commenced

SEC. 3728. Findings inconsistent with general verdict. When the
special ﬁnding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
controls the latter, and the court may give judgment accordingly, or set
aside the verdict and ﬁndings, as justice may require.

SEC. 3729. When by the verdict either
party is entitled to recover money of the adverse party, the jury in its

SEC. 3730. Joint or several verdicts. Where there are several
verdict must assess the amount of such recovery.

plaintiﬁs or defendants, whether the pleadings are joint or several, the
verdicts shall be moulded according to the facts and to suit the exigencies
of the case.

SEC. 3731.
the intention of the jury.
SEC. 3732. Entered 0 record.
with the clerk and entered upon the record, after having been
by the court, if necessary, and be a part of the record.

Form. The verdict shall be sufﬁcient inform if it expresses
The verdict shall in all cases be ﬁled
SEC. 3733. Waiver of jury trial. Trial by jury may be waived by
the several parties to an issue of fact in the following cases:
1. By suffering default, or by failing to appear at the trial;
2. By
written consent, in person or by attorney, ﬁled with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, enteredin the minutes.

SEC. 3734. Reference—by consent. All or any of the issues in an
action, whether of fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the consent
of the
parties, written or oral, in court entered upon the record.

SEC. 3735. Without consent. When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon motion of either, or upon its own motion, direct a reference
in either of the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
mutual accounts, or when, the account being on one side only, it shall be
made to appear to the court that it is necessary that the party of the other
side should be examined as a. witness to prove the account, in which case
the referee may be directed to hear and report upon the whole issue, or
upon any speciﬁc question of fact involved therein;
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information
of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect;
3. When a question of fact shall arise in any action by equitable pro
ceedings, in which case the court in the order of reference shall prescribe
the manner in which the testimony shall be taken on the trial.

SEC. 3736. Where not otherwise declared in the
order of reference, all the referees must meet to hear proofs, arguments, and
to deliberate, but a decision of a majority shall be regarded as their decision.

SEC. 3737. Vacancies. When appointed by the court, the judge thereof may fill vacancies in vacation.

SEC. 3738. Powers. The referee shall stand in the place of the court,
and shall have the same power, so far as necessary, to discharge his duty.

SEC. 3739. Method of trial-proceedings. The trial by referee shall
be conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court; he shall have the
same power to summon and enforce by attachment the attendance of wit
nesses, to punish them as for a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to
be sworn or to testify, and to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of
the case, to take testimony by commission, to allow amendments to plead
ings, grant continuances, preserve order and punish all violations thereof.
SEC. 3740. Report— udgment. The report of the referee on the whole
issue must state the facts thus found and the conclusions of the law sepa
rately, and shall stand as the ﬁnding of the court, and judgment may be
entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the
court; the report may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner.

SEC. 3741. Finding of facts. When the reference is to report the
facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict. 
SEC. 3742. Bill of exceptions. The referee shall sign any true bill
of exceptions taken to any ruling by him made in the case upon the demand
of either partyfwho shall have the same rights to obtain such bill as exists
in the court, which bill shall be returned with the report, but no bill of
exceptions is necessary to preserve or make of record any matter taken or
noted down by the official shorthand reporter of the court, or one appointed
by it or the referee, or agreed upon by the parties, and Whose report is cer
tiﬁed by such reporter and referee to be a full and true report of all the
proceedings had, which shall be ﬁled with the referee ’s report, and the
whole be a part of the record. Such reporter shall be governed by teh law relating to official shorthand reporters.

SEC. 3743. Selection of referees. In all cases of reference, the par
ties, except when a minor is a party, may agree upon a suitable person or
persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accord
ingly; and if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who shall be persons free from objection, or
the court may allow each party to select one and itself select a third. 
SEC. 3744. Appointed in vacation. A judge of the court, when a
cause is pending, may, in vacation, upon the written consent of the parties,
make an order of reference, which shall be written on the agreement to refer,
and ﬁled with the clerk with the other papers in the case, and become part
of the record. 
SEC. 3746. Sworn. The referee must make affidavit well and faithfully
to hear and examine the case, and make a just and true report therein, accord
ing to the best of his understanding. The aﬂidavit shall be returned with
the report, ﬁled by the clerk, and be a part of the record. 

SEC. 3746. The order shall not be made until the case is
at issue as to the parties whose rights are to be examined on the reference.
The order may direct when the referee shall proceed to a hearing and
when he shall make his report, but, in the absence of such direction, he
shall do so on the morning of the tenth day after the day on which the
order of reference was made, and shall ﬁle his report as soon as done. The
parties shall take notice of the time thus ﬁxed or determined and non
attendance of either party within an hour thereof shall be attended with
like consequences as if the case were in court, which consequences shall be
reported as any other fact or ﬁnding of the referee.

SEC. 3747. Acceptance by referee. The referee must be called on by
the court to accept or refuse the appointment, and his acceptance shall be
entered of record; and he shall be under the control of the court, who may
on the motion of either party make proper orders with a view to his pro
ceeding with all due dispatch, and the court or judge may, on motion,
extend the time for making his report. 
SEC. 3748. Proceed as court. The form of procedure which in the
court itself regulates service, pleading, proof, trial and the preparation,
progress and method of each of these, shall obtain before the referee; and
in every incident of the proceeding before him the rights and responsibili
ties of parties and of their attorneys, and of the referee, shall be the same
as if the referee was the court engaged in the same manner. 

SEC. 3749. Exceptions—how taken. An exception is an objection,
taken to a decision of the court, or person acting as the court, on a matter
of law. The party excepting to the decision must do so at the time it is
made, unless it is upon a motion or demurrer, in which case it may be taken
within three days. It may be embodied in a. bill of exceptions to be ﬁled
within thirty days after the ﬁnal determination of the case, or within a rea
sonable time thereafter, to be ﬁxed by the court, not to exceed ninety days
therefrom. In equitable actions, triable de nova on appeal, no bill of excep
tions shall be necessary, nor in other actions in which all the proceedings
are, under the direction of the court, taken in writing or shorthand by the
regular court reporter, or another appointed by the court or judge for the
purpose, and embodied in a report by such reporter, certiﬁed by him and
the court or judge, in the manner provided in this chapter for making and
certifying such report. This section shall not be so construed as to prevent
any party embodying in a. bill of exceptions all or any part of the proceed
ings in any action in which he may elect to preserve his exceptions in that
form. And whenever the judge or referee trying a cause is unable by rea
son of death, removal, resignation or any cause to sign a bill of exceptions,
or certify the shorthand reporter’s record, the same shall be done by his
successor, and the time for such signing or certiﬁcation shall be extended
thirty days after the appointment, or election andqualiﬁcation of such suc
cessor. 

SEC. 3750. No stated form of exception is required.
If the exception is to the admission or exclusion of evidence, oral or writ
ten, the ground of the objection must be stated, and no other shall be
regarded.

SEC. 3751. Exception noted. When the decision objected to is entered
on the record, and the grounds of the exception appear in the entry,
or when any error appears of record, the exception may be taken by the
party causing to be noted at the end of the decision, or in connection there
with, that he excepts.
SEC. 3752. A bill of exceptions,
when presented for signature, need not include therein, spread out at
length, any writing ﬁled in court, but may incorporate the same by any
unmistakable reference thereto; and the clerk, in making a transcript of
the bill of exceptions shall write therein at length all of such writing included therein by reference.

SEC. 3753. When the decision is not entered on the record,
or the grounds of objection do not suﬂiciently appear therein, the party
excepting must reduce his exception to writing and present it to the judge
for his signature, which, if it fairly presents the facts, he shall sign; if he
refuses, the party may procure the signature of two bystanders attesting
that the exception is correctly stated, and that the judge has refused to
sign the same, which bill of exceptions shall then be ﬁled with the clerk
and become a. part of the record. The truth of such exceptions may be
controverted and maintained by aﬂidavits, not exceeding ﬁve on each side,
which shall become a p
art of the record. All afﬁdavits impugning the
exception must be ﬁled within three days from the time of ﬁling the bill,
and all aﬂidavits sustaining the same within two days thereafter.

SEC. 3754. Must be on material point. No exception shall be regarded in the supreme court unless the ruling has been on a material
point, and the effect thereof prejudicial to the rights of the party excepting.

SEC. 3755. A new trial is a re-examination
in the same court of an issue of fact, or some part or portions thereof, after
verdict by a jurv, report of a referee, or a decision by the court.
The ormer report, verdict or decision, or some part or portion thereof, shall be
vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for the following causes aifecting materially the substantial rights of such
party :
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee or prevail
ing party; or any order of the court or referee, or abuse of discretion, by
which the party was prevented from having a fair trial;
2. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party;
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against;
4. Excessive damages appearing to have been given under the inﬂuence
of passion or prejudice;
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large
or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury or deten
tion of property;
6. That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by sufficient evi
dence, or is contrary to law:
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which
he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced atthe
trial ;
8. Error of law occurring at the trial, excepted to by the party making
the application;
9. That the pleadings of the prevailing party do not state facts sufﬁcient
to constitute a cause of action or defense, as the case may be, specifying
wherein they are defective.

Sec. 3756. The application must be made
within three days after the verdict, report or decision is rendered, unless
for good cause the court extends the time, except for the cause of newly
discovered evidence; must be by motion upon written grounds, and, if for the
causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven of the preceding section, may be sustained and controverted by aiﬁdavits.

SEC. 3767. Judgment notwithstanding verdict.
Either party may
ﬁle a motion for judgment in his favor, notwithstanding the fact that a ver
dict has been returned against him, if the pleadings of the party in whose
favor the verdict has been returned omit to aver some material fact or facts
necessary to constitute a complete cause of action or defense, the motion
clearly pointing out the omission.

SEC. 8768. Arrest of judgment. Either party may ﬁle a motion in
arrest of judgment, where the pleadings of the prevailing party wholly fail
to state a cause of action or a complete defense, and a verdict has been
returned in his favor. 

SEC. 3759. Filing of motion. The ﬁling of either a motion for a new
trial, for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, or in arrest of judgment,
shall not be a waiver of the right to ﬁle either or both of the others, but any
such motion shall be ﬁled within the time ﬁxed for the ﬁling of motions for
new trials.
SEC. 3760. Amendment to cure defect. Upon any motion for a new
trial, for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, or in arrest of judgment,
the party whose pleading it is alleged is defective may, if the court consid
ers it necessary, ﬁle an amendment setting up the omitted facts, which, if
true, would remedy the alleged defects, and such amendment shall be ﬁled
before the hearing of the motion, and shall suspend the same. If the facts
thus stated would not, if proven, defeat the object of the motion, it shall be
sustained. If such new averments would, if proven, defeat its object and
are not admitted, they must be denied, or confessed and avoided, by the
opposite party within such time as the court shall direct, unless the same
are denied by legal operation, and in such case the law of pleading and pro
cedure shall apply, except that the amendment and response need not be
veriﬁed. 

SEC. 3761. Issues tried—judgment. If the facts thus pleaded are
admitted, the party pleading the same shall be entitled to such judgment as
he would have been entitled to if such facts had been stated in the original
pleading and admitted as proven on the trial, but, if controverted, there
shall be a trial of the issues raised by the new pleadings, and judgment
shall be rendered on the original verdict or ﬁnding, as modiﬁed or supple
mented by the verdict or ﬁnding on the new issues. [C. ‘T3, § 2843; R., § 3120.]
SEC. 3762. Costs of new trial. The cost of all new trials shall either
abide the event of the action or be paid by the party to Whom such new trial
is granted, according to the order of the court, to be made at the time of
granting such new trial. [O;’73, § 2840: R., § 3117.]
SEC. 3768. Conditions. The court may determine not to grant a new
trial unless certain terms or conditions named by it shall be agreed to by
the opposite party, and, in the event of his agreement, the terms or condi
tions named shall be entered on the record, and no new trial shall be granted
if he refuses to agree thereto.

SEC. 3764. An action may be dismissed, and
such dismissal shall be without prejudice to a future action:
1. By the plaintifff, before the ﬁnal submission of the case to the jury, or
to the court when the trial is by the court;
2. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear when the case is called
for trial;
3. By the court, for want of necessary parties, when not made accord
ing to the requirements of the court;
4. By the court, on the ap
there are others whom the
plication of some of the defendants, when
plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence;
5. By the court, for disobedience by the arty of an order concerning
the pleadings or any proceeding in the action. 

SEC. 3765. In all other cases upon the trial
of the action the decision must be upon the merits. 

SEC. 3766. In any case when a counterclaim
has been ﬁled, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to trial
thereon, although the
appear.

SEC. 3767. Or dismissed. The defendant may, at any time before the
ﬁnal submission of the cause to the jury, or to the court when the trial is by
the court, dismiss his counterclaim without prejudice.

SEC. 3768. Any party to any claim may dis
miss the same in vacation, and the clerk shall make the proper entry of
dismissal on the record, and if the costs are not paid may enter judgment
against such party therefore in favor of the
shall be liable for no costs made by the other
party entitled thereto, and issue
execution therefore at the order of such
party. The party so dismissing
party after notice to him of
such dismissal. [G.’73, § 2848; R., § 3131; C. ‘51, § 1822.]
SEC. 3769. J’udg'ment—ﬂna.1 adjudication. Every ﬁnal adjudication
of the rights of the parties in an action is a judgment; and such adjudica
tion may consist of many judgments, one of which may determine for the
plaintifff or defendant on the claim of either as an entirety; or, when a claim
consists of several parts or items, such judgment may be for either of them
on any speciﬁc part or item of such aggregate claim, and against him on the
other part thereof; or a judgment may, in .either of these ways, determine
on the claims of co-parties on the same side against each other. 

SEC. 3770. Any party who succeeds in par-t of
his cause or causes, and fails as to part, may have the entry in such case
express judgment for him for such part as he succeeds upon, and against
him on the other part. [C. ’73, § 2850; R., § 3122.]
SEC. 3771. In abatement. Where matter in abatement is pleaded in
connection with other matter not such, the ﬁnding of the jury or court must
distinguish between matter in abatement and matter in bar, and the judg
ment must, if it is rendered on the matter in abatement, and not on the merits,
so declare. 

SEC. 3772. Where any other than a general execu
tion of the common form is required, the party must state in his
pleading
the facts entitling him thereto, and the judgment may be entered in accord
ance with the ﬁnding of the court or jury thereon.
SEC. 3773. Several judgment.
In an action by several plaintiﬁs, or
against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judg
ment for or against one or more of them when a several judgment is
proper, leaving the action to proceed as to the others.

SEC. 3774. Judgment against one of joint defendants.
Though all
the defendants have been served with notice, judgment may be rendered
against any of them severally, where the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments against such defendants if the action had been against such alone.

SEC. 3775. What relief granted. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if
there be no answer; cannot exceed that which he has demanded in his peti
tion.
In any other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with
the case made by the petition and embraced within the issue.

SEC. 3776. Judgment for part of claim not controverted. If only
part of the claim is controverted by the pleading, judgment may at any time
be rendered for the part not controverted.

SEC. 3777. Judgment on verdict. When a. trial by jury has _been had,
judgment must be entered by the clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless
it is special, or the court orders the case to be reserved for future argument
or consideration. 
SEC. 3778. When verdict is special. When the verdict is special, or
when there has been a special ﬁnding on particular questions of fact or
issues, or when the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order
what judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 3779. Principal and surety—order of liability. When a judg
ment is rendered against a principal and his surety, it shall recite the order
of their liability therefore, and the term “surety ” includes all persons whose
liability on the claim is posterior to that of another. [C.’73, § 3040, 3042;
R., § 3259, 3261.]
SEC. 3780. Judgment on counter-c1a.im—a.ﬁ1-mative relief. If
more is recovered on a counterclaim than on the plaintiffE’s claim, judgment
for the defendant must be given for the excess; or, if it appears that the
defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment must be given
therefore. C.’73, §2860; R., § 3139; O.’51, § 1798.1
SEC. 37 1. Judgment by agreement. Any judgment in a case pend
ing, other than for divorce, which may be agreed upon between the parties
interested therein, may at any time be entered, and if not done in open
court, the judgment agreed to shall be in writing, signed, and ﬁled with
the clerk, who shall thereupon enter the same accordingly, and execution
thereon may issue forthwith unless therein otherwise agreed upon.

SEC. 3782. No distinction between debt and damages. In all actions
where the plaintifff recovers a sum of money, the amount to which he is enti
tled may be awarded him by the judgment generally, without any distinction
being therein made as to whether such sum is recovered by way of debt or
damages. [o.’1.-2, 2862; R§31-14.]
SEC. 3783. Court acting as jury. The provisions of this chapter
relative to juries are intended to be applied to the court when acting as a
jury on the trial of a cause, so far as they are applicable and not incompati
ble With other provisions herein contained.

SEC. 3784. Judgments and orders entered. All judgments and orders
must be entered on the record of the court, and must specify clearly the
relief granted or order made in the action.
SEC. 3786. Discharge of judgment—on motion. A defendant against
whom a judgment has been rendered, or any person interested therein, hav
ing matter of discharge which has arisen since the judgment, may upon
motion, in a summary way, have the same discharged, either in whole or in
part, according to the circumstances.

SEC. 8787. Fraudulent assignment of judgment. The court shall
have power, on motion, to inquire into the facts attending or connected
with the assignment of a judgment, or the entry of the same to the use of
any party, and to strike out such use, or to declare such assignment void,
either in whole or in part, whenever such assignment or use shall be deter
mined to be inequitable, fraudulent or in bad faith. [c. ’73, § 2868; R§ 3147.]
SEC. 3788. Defau1t—when made and entered. lf a party fails to
ﬁle or amend his pleading by the time prescribed by the rules of pleading,
or, in the absence of rules, by the time ﬁxed by the court, or if, having
pleaded, his petition, answer or reply on motion or demurrer is held insuﬁi
cient, or is stricken out, and he fails to amend, answer or reply further as
required by the rules of or by the court, or if he withdraws his pleading
without authority or permission to replead, judgment by default may be
rendered against him on demand of the adverse party, made before such
pleading is ﬁled.

SEC. 3789. Notice must appear. Where no appearance is made,
default shall not be entered until the court determines from an inspection
of the record that notice has been given as required by this code.

SEC. 3790. Default may be set aside
on such terms as to the court may seem just, among which must be that of
pleading issuably and forthwith, but not unless an aﬂidavit of merits is ﬁled,
and a reasonable excuse shown for having made such default, nor unless
application therefore is made at the term in which default was entered, or if
entered in vacation, then on the ﬁrst day of the succeeding term.

SEC. 3791. When the action is for a money demand, and the amount of the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation, the clerk shall ascertain the amount, but no fee shall be charged therefore. When long accounts are to be examined, the court may refer the  matter. In other cases the court shall assess the damages, unless a jury is demanded by the party not in default. The proper amount having been ascertained by either of the above methods, judgment shall be rendered therefore.

SEC. 3792. The party in
default may appear at the time of the assessment and cross-examine the
witnesses against him, but for no other purpose.

SEC. 3793. Judgment on default in equitable proceeding. When
the action is of an equitable character, the court, upon hearing the
plead
ings and proofs, and hearing the testimony offered, shall render such judg
ment as is consistent with the rules of equity.

SEC. 8794. Setting aside, if on notice by publication. A defend
ant served by publication alone shall be allowed, at any time before judg
ment, to appear and defend the action, and, upon a substantial defense being
declared, timemay be given on reasonable terms to prepare for trial. 
SEC. 3796. Security required of plaintifff. When judgment by default
is rendered against a. defendant who has not been personally served, the
court, before issuing process to enforce such judgment, may, if deemed expe
dient, require the plaintifff to give security to abide the future order of the
court as contemplated in the following section. 

SEC. 3796. New trial after judgment, on publication. When a
judgment has been rendered against a defendant or defendants, served by
publication only, and who do not appear, such defendants, or any one or
more of them, or any person legally representing him or them, may, at any
time within two years after the rendition of the judgment, appear in court
and move to have the action retried, and, security for the costs being given,
they shall be permitted to make defense; and thereupon the action shall be
retried as to such defendants as if there had been no judgment; and upon the
new trial the court may conﬁrm the former judgment, or may modify or set
it aside, and may order the plaintifff to restore any money of such defendant
paid to him under it and yet remaining in his possession, and
pay to the
defendant the value of any property which may have been taken in attach
ment in the action or under the judgment, and not restored. 

SEC. 3797. Title to property not affected. The title of a purchaser
in good faith to any property sold under attachment or judgment shall not
be affected by the new trial permitted by the preceding section, except the title of property obtained by the
faith by others.

SEC. 3798. Serving copy of judgment. The
plaintifff may, at any
time after the judgment, cause a certiﬁed copy thereof to be served on a
defendant served by publication only, whereupon the period in which such
defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial shall be reduced to six
months after such service. 
SEC. 3799. Manner of service. The service, whether made within or
without the state, shall be actual and personal by delivery of such certiﬁed
copy, and made and returned as in case of original notice. 
SEC. 3800. Personal judgment. No personal judgment shall be ren
dered against a defendant served by publication only who has not made an
appearance; but a personal judgment may be rendered against a defendant,
whether he appears or not, who has been served in any mode provided in
this code other than by publication, whether served within or without this
state, if such defendant is a resident of the state. 

SEC. 3801. Liens of judgments. Judgments in the supreme or dis
trict court of this state, or in the circuit or district court of the United
States within the state, are liens upon the real estate owned by the defend
ant at the time of such rendition, and also upon all he may subsequently
acquire, for the period of ten years from the date of the judgment. 

SEC. 3802. When a.ttach—ﬂ1ing transcript in another county.
When the land lies in the county wherein the judgment was rendered, the
lien shall attach from the date of such rendition, but if in another it will
not attach until an attested copy of the judgment is ﬁled in the otﬁce of the
clerk of the district court of the county in which the land lies. 

SEC. 3803. Docketing transcript. Such clerk shall, on the ﬁling of
such transcript of the judgment in his oﬂice, immediately proceed to docket
and index the same in the same manner as though rendered in the court of
his own county. 

SEC. 8804. Satisfaction of judgment. When the amount due upon
judgment is paid oﬁ, or satisﬁed in full, the party entitled to the proceeds
thereof, or those acting _for him, must acknowledge satisfaction thereof
upon the record of such judgment, or by the execution of an instrument
referring to it, duly acknowledged and ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk in every
county wherein the judgment is a lien. A failure to do so for thirty days
after having been requested in writing shall subject the delinquent party
to a penalty of ﬁfty dollars, to be recovered in an action therefore by the
party aggrieved. 
SEC. 3806. Conveyance by commissioner. Real property may be
conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court:
1. Where, by judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey such
property to another;
2. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of the
court, and the purchase price has been paid. 
SEC. 3806. Deed. The deed of the commissioner shall refer to the
judgment, orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance. 
SEC. 3807. Conveys title. A conveyance made in pursuance of a.
judgment shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey
the land. 
SEC. 3808. Other parties. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale
ordered by the court shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to
the action or proceeding. 
SEC. 3809. Approval by court. A conveyance by a commissioner shall
not pass any right until it has been approved by the court, which approval
shall be indorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it. 
SEC. 3810. Form. The conveyance shall be signed by the commis
sioner only, without aﬁixing the names of the parties whose title is con
veyed, but the names of such parties shall be recited in the body of the
conveyance. 
SEC. 3811. Recorded. The conveyance shall be recorded in the ofﬁce
in which, by law, it should have been recorded had it been made by the
parties whose title is conveyed by it. 
SEC. 3812. Approval in vacation. Whenever by law it is permitted
or required that judicial or other sales and conveyances of land may or shall
be conﬁrmed and approved by a court, the judge of the court may, in vaca
tion, approve the same, and cause the proper entry or entries to be made.

SEC. 3813. How entered. A judgment by confession, without
action, may be entered by the clerk of the district court. 

SEC. 3814. Only for money. The judgment can be only for money
due or to become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities on
behalf of the defendant, and must be for a speciﬁed sum.

SEC. 3815. Statement. A statement in writing must be made, si
gned
and veriﬁed by the defendant, and ﬁled with the clerk, to the following
eﬁect:
1. If for money due or to become due, it must state concisely the facts
out of which the indebtedness arose, and that the sum confessed therefore is
justly due, or to become due, as the case may be;
2. If for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability,
it must state concisely the facts constituting such liability, and must show
that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.

SEC. 3816. Judg-ment—execution. The clerk shall thereupon make an
entry of judgment in his court record for the -amount confessed and costs,
and shall issue execution thereon as in other cases, when ordered by
the
party entitled thereto. 

SEC. 8817. Offer to confess before action. Before an action for the
recovery of money is brought against any person, he may go before the
clerk of the court of the county of his residence, or of that in which the
person having the cause of action resides, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a speciﬁed sum on such cause of action, as pro
vided for in the foregoing sections. If such person, having had the same
notice as if he were defendant in an action that the offer would be made, of
its amount, and of the time and place of making it, refuses to accept it,
and afterwards commences an action upon such cause, and does not
recover more than the amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay all
the costs of the action; and on the trial thereof the offer shall not be treated
as an admission of the cause of action or amount to which the plaintifff was
entitled, nor be given in evidence. C. ’73, § 2898; R., § 3403.]
SEC. 3818. After action broug t. After an action for the recovery of
money is brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for
part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action. If
the plaintifff, being present, refuses to acce t judgment for such sum in full
of his demands in the action, or, having ad three days’ notice that the
oﬁer would be made, of its amount, and of the time of making it, fails to
attend, and on the trial does not recover more than was offered to be con
fessed, he shall pay the costs of the defendant incurred after the offer. The
offer shall not be treated as an admission of the cause of action or amount
to which the plaintifff was entitled nor be given in evidence upon the trial.

SEC. 3819. Offer of judgment. The defendant in an action for the
recovery of money only may, at any time after service of notice and before
the trial, serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney an offer in writing to allow
judgment to be taken against him for a speciﬁed sum with costs. If the
plaintifff accepts the offer, and gives notice thereof to the defendant or his
attorney within ﬁve days after the offer is made, the offer, a11d an affidavit
that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be ﬁled
by the plaintifff, or the defendant may ﬁle the acceptance with a copy of the
offer, veriﬁed by aﬁidavit; and in either case a minute of the offer and accept
ance shall be entered upon the judge ‘s calendar, and judgment shall be
rendered by the court accordingly. If the notice of acceptance is not given
in the period limited, the offer shall be treated as withdrawn, and shall not
be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to
obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he cannot
recover costs, but shall pay the defendant ’s costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 8820. Conditional offer. In an action for the recovery of money
only, the defendant, having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff or his
attorney an offer in writing that, if he fails in his defense, the amount of
recovery shall be assessed at a speciﬁed sum. If the plaintifff accepts the
oﬁer, and gives notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within ﬁve
days after it was served, or within three days if served in term time, and
the defendant fails in his defense, the judgment shall be for the amount
so agreed upon. If the plaintifff does not accept the offer, he shall prove
the amount to be recovered as if the offer had not been made, and the offer
shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial, and if the amount
recovered by the plaintifff does not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer,
%‘1e§1efend]ant shall recover his costs incurred in the defense. 
sEC. 3821. No cause for continuance. The making of any offer pur
suant to the provisions of this chapter shall not be cause for a continuance
of the action or a postponement of the trial. 

SEC. 3822. When and how appointed. On the petition of either
party to a civil action or proceeding, wherein he shows that he has a prob
able right to, or interest in, any property which is the subject of the con
troversy, and that such property, or its rents or proﬁts, are in danger of
being lost or materially injured or impaired, and on such notice to the
adverse party as the court or judge shall prescribe, the court, or, in vacation,
the judge thereof, if satisﬁed that the interests of one or both parties will
be thereby promoted, and the substantial rights of neither unduly infringed»
may appoint a receiver to take charge of and control such property under
its direction during the pendency of the action, and may order and coerce
the delivery of it to him. Upon the hearing of the application, aﬂidavits,
and such other proof as the court or judge permits, may be introduced, and
upon the whole case such order made as will be for the best interest of all
parties concerned.

SEC. 3823. Oath and bond of. Before entering upon the discharge of
his duties, he must be sworn faithfully to discharge his trust to the best of
his ability, and must also ﬁle with the clerk a bond with sureties, to be
approved by him, in a penalty to be ﬁxed by the court or judge, and con
ditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties, and that he will obey the
orders of the court in respect thereto. 
SEC. 3824. Power of. Subject to the control of the court or judge, a.
receiver has power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession
of property, to collect debts, to receive the rents and proﬁts of real property,
and, generally, to do such acts in respect to the property committed to him
as may
be authorized by law or ordered by the court.

SEC. 3825. Priority of liens. Persons having liens upon the property
placed in the hands of a receiver shall, if there is a contest as to their pri
ority, submit them to the court for determination.

SEC. 3826. Judgments on motion. Judgments or ﬁnal orders may
be obtained on motion by sureties against their principals, or by sureties
against their co-sureties, for the recovery of money due them on account of
payments made by them as such; by clients against attorneys; plaintifffs in
execution against sheriﬁs, constables and other officers, for the recovery of
SEC. 3827. Notice of such motion shall be served
on the party against whom the judgment or order is sought, at least ten
days before the motion is made.
SEC. 3828. Form. The notice sh-all state in plain and ordinary language
the nature and grounds thereof, and the day on which it will be made. 

SEC. 3829. When abandoned. Unless the motion is made and ﬁled
with the case on or before the day named in the notice, it shall be consid
ered as abandoned. 
SEC. 3830. No written pleadings. It shall be heard and determined
by the court without written pleadings, and judgment given according to
the very right of the matter. 

SEC. 8831. Motion deﬁned. A motion is a written application for
an order, addressed to the court or to a judge in vacation, by any party to
an action, or by any one interested therein. 
SEC. 3832. Several objects. Several objects may be included in the
same motion, if they all grow out of or are connected with the action in
which it is made. 
SEC. 3833. Proof by aﬂidavit. Testimony to sustain or resist a motion
may be in the form of aiﬁdavits, or in such other form as the parties may
agree on or the court or judge direct. If by aﬂidavit, the person making
the same may be required by the court or judge to appear and submit to a
cross-examination. 

SEC. 3834. A party who has appeared in an action,
or who has been served with the original notice therein in any manner pro
vided by this code, shall take notice of all motions ﬁled during term time,
upon the same being ﬁled by the clerk and entered in the appearance docket.
All motions ﬁled in vacation shall be entered on such docket and served as
herein required.

SEC. 3836. Form of notice. When notice of a motion is required to be
served, it shall state the names of the parties to the action or proceeding in
which it is made, the name of the court or judge before whom it is to be made,
and the place where and the day on which it is to be heard, and, if aﬂidavits
are to be used on the hearing, the notice shall be accompanied with copies
thereof, and shall be served such length of time before the hearing as the
court or judge may ﬁx. 
SEC. 3836. Service. Notices and copies of motions mentioned in this chapter may be served by any one who would be authorized to serve an orig
inal notice. 
SEC. 3837. On each party. The service shall be on each of the parties
adverse to the motion, if more than one, or on an attorney of record of such
party. 
SEC. 838. Personal or on attorney. The service may be personal
on such party or attorney, or may be made in the same manner as is provided
for the service of the original notice in civil actions; or it may be served on
the attorney by being left at his office with any person having the charge
thereof. 
SEC. 3839. Return. Any officer authorized to serve any notice shall
serve the same at once and make prompt return to the party who deliv
ered it to him, and a failure to do so shall be punished as a disobedience of
the process of the court. 
SEC. 3840. What to state. The return of proof of service must state
the manner in which it was made. 
SEC. 3841. Court may direct mode of service. When the party has
no known place of abode in this state, and no attorney in the county where
the action is pending, or where the parties, plaintifffs or defendants, are
numerous, the court or judge may direct the mode of serving such notices,
and on whom they shall be served. 

SEC. 3842. “Order” deﬁned. Every direction of a court or judge, made
or entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is an order.
SEC. 3843. May issue in vacation.
A judge’s order may issue in
-vacation, directing any of the ofﬁcers of the court in relation to the dis
charge of their duties.

SEC. 3844. Such order shall be in force only during the vacation in which it is granted, and for the first two days of the ensuing term. 
SEC. 3845. Bond. The judge granting it may require the ﬁling of a
bond as in case of an injunction, unless from the nature of the case such
requirement would be clearly unnecessary or improper. 
SEC. 3846. F11ed and entered. Orders made out of court shall forth
with be ﬁled with and entered by the clerk in the journal of the court in
the same manner as orders made in the term. 

SEC. 3847. When required. If a defendant, at any time before
answering, shall make and ﬁle an aﬂiidavit stating that he has a good defense
in whole or in part, the plaintifff, if he is a nonresident of this state, or a
private or foreign corporation, before any other proceedings in the action,
must ﬁle in the clerk ’s oﬁice a bond, with sureties to be approved by the clerk,
in an amount to be ﬁxed by the court, for the payment of all costs which may
accrue in the action in the court in which it is brought, or in any other to
which it may be carried, either to the defendant or to the oﬁicers of the
court. The application for such security shall be by motion, ﬁled with the
case, and the facts supporting it must be shown by aﬂidavits annexed thereto,
which may be responded to by counter affidavits on or before the hearing of
the motion, and each party shall ﬁle all his aﬂidavits at once, and none there
after.

SEC. 3848. Dismissal for failure to furnish. An action in which a
bond for costs is required by the last section shall be dismissed,' if a bond is
not given in such time as the court allows. 
SEC. 3849. When plaintifff becomes nonresident. If the plaintifff in
an action, after its institution and at any time before its ﬁnal determination,
becomes a nonresident of this state, he may be required to give security for
costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided in the preceding sections of this chapter. 

SEC. 3850. Additional security. In an action in which a bond for costs
has been given, the defendant may, at any time before trial, make a motion for
additional security, and if on such motion the court is satisﬁed that the
surety in the plaintifff’s bond has removed from the state, or it is not suﬁi
cient for the amount thereof, it may dismiss the action unless, in a reason
able time to be ﬁxed by the court, suﬂicient security is given by the plaintifff.

SEC. 3851. Attorney or other oﬁcer not received. No attorney or
other oﬁicer of the court shall be received as security in any proceeding in
court.

SEC. 3852. Judgment on bond rendered on motion. Afterﬁnal judg
ment has been rendered in an action in which security for costs has been given
as above required, the court may, on motion of the defendant or any other
person having the right to such costs or any part thereof, render judgment
summarily, in the name of the defendant or his legal representatives, against
the sureties for costs, for the amount of costs adjudged against the plaintifff,
or so much thereof as may remain unpaid. 
SEC. 3853. Recoverable by successful party. Costs shall be
recovered by the successful against the losing party. But where the party
is successful as to a part of his demand, and fails as to part, unless the case
is otherwise provided for, the court on rendering judgment may make an
equitable apportionment of costs.

SEC. 3854. Apportionment. In actions where there are several plain
t-iffs or several defendants, the costs shall be apportioned according to the
several judgments rendered; and where there are several causes of action
embraced in the same petition, or several issues, the plaintifff shall recover
costs upon the issues determined in his favor, and the defendant upon those
determined in his favor.

SEC. 3855. A11 costs accrued at the instance of the suc
cessful party, which cannot be collected of the other party, may be recovered
on motion by the person entitled to them against the successful party.

SEC. 3856. What included in. The necessary fees paid by the suc
cessful party in procuring copies of deeds, bonds, wills or other records
ﬁled as a part of the testimony shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 3857. Postage. Postage paid by the officers of the court, or by
the parties, in sending process, depositions, and other papers being part of
the record, by mail, shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 3858. Defense arising after action brought. When a pleading
contains as a defense matter which arose after the commencement of the
action, whether such matter of defense is pleaded alone or with other
matter of defense which arose before the action, the party affected by
such matter may confess the same, and shall be entitled to the costs of the
action to the time of such pleading. [C.’73, § 2938; R., § 3455.]
SEC. 3859. On dismissal of action or abatement. When a plaintifff
dismisses the action or any part thereof, or suffers it to abate by the death
of the defendant or other cause, or where the action abates by the death of
the plaintifff, and his representatives fail to revive the same, judgment for
costs may be rendered against such plaintifff or representative, and, if
against a representative, shall be paid as other claims against the estate.

SEC. 3860. Between co-parties. Co-parties against whom judgment
has been recovered are entitled, as between themselves, to a taxation of the
costs of witnesses whose testimony was obtained at the instance of one of
the co-parties and inured exclusively to his beneﬁts. 
SEC. 3861. When dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Where an
action is dismissed from any court for want of jurisdiction, or because it has
not been regularly transferred from an inferior to a superior court, the costs
shall be adjudged against the party attempting to institute or bring up the
same. 
SEC. 3862. Clerk to tax. The clerk shall tax in favor of the party
recovering costs the allowance of his witnesses, the fees of officers, the
compensation of referees, the necessary expenses of taking depositions by
commission or otherwise, and any further sum for any other matter which
the court may have awarded as costs in the progress of the action, or may
allow. 

SEC. 3863. When cause of action assigned. In actions in which the
cause of action shall, by assignment after the commencement thereof, or in
any other manner, become the property of a person not a party to the
action, such party shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he
were a party. 
SEC. 3864. Retaxation. Any person aggrieved by the taxation of a
bill of costs may, upon application, have the same retaxed by the court, or
by a referee appointed by the court in which the application or proceeding
was had, and in such retaxation all errors shall be corrected; and if the
party aggrieved shall have paid any unlawful charge by reason of the ﬁrst
taxation, the clerk shall pay the costs of retaxation, and also to the party
aggrieved the amount which he may have paid by reason of the allowing of
such unlawful charges. 

SEC. 3865. Bill of costs ﬁled on appeal. In cases of appeals from
the district court, the clerk, if ﬁnal judgment is rendered in the supreme
court, shall make a complete bill of costs in the court below which shall be
ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the supreme court and taxed with the costs
in the action therein.
SEC. 3866. Costs in supreme court. When the costs accrued in the
supreme court and the court below are paid to the clerk of the supreme
court, he shall pay so much of them as accrued in the court below to the
clerk of said court, and take his receipt therefore. 
SEC. 3867. Duty of clerk below. On receiving such costs, the clerk
of the court below shall charge himself with the money and pay it to the
persons entitled thereto. 
SEC. 3868. Interest. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report until judgment is ﬁnally
entered shall be computed by the clerk and added to the costs of the party
entitled thereto. 

SEC. 3869. Attorneys’ fees—when taxed as costs—a.mount. When
judgment is recovered upon a written contract containing an agreement to
pay an attorney’s fee, the court shall allow and tax as a part of the costs,
on the ﬁrst two hundred dollars or fraction thereof recovered, ten per cent.;
on the excess of two hundred to ﬁve hundred dollars, ﬁve per cent.; on the
excess of ﬁve hundred to one thousand dollars, three per cent.; and on all
sums in excess of one thousand dollars, one per cent. If action is commenced
and the claim paid oﬁ before return day, the amount shall be one-half of the
sum above provided, and if it is paid after the return day but before judg
ment, three-fourths of said sum; but no fee shall be‘ allowed in any case if
an action has not been commenced, or expense incurred, nor shall any
greater sum be allowed, any agreement in the contract to the contrary not
withstanding. 

SEC. 3870. The attorney ’s fee allowed
in the preceding section shall not be taxed in any case unless it shall appear
by aﬂidavit of the attorney, ﬁled with the petition at the commencement of
the action, that there has been, and is, no agreement between such attorney
and his client, express or implied, nor between him and any other person,
except a practicing attorney engaged with him as an attorney in the cause,
for any division or sharing of the fee to be taxed, which, when taxed, shall
be only in favor of a regular attorney and as compensation for services
actually rendered in the action.

SEC. 3871. No such attorney fee shall be taxed if the defendant is a resident of the county
and the action is not aided by an
attachment, unless it shall be made to appear that such defendant had
information of and a reasonable opportunity to pay the debt before action
was brought. This provision, however, shall not apply to contracts made
payable by their terms at a particular place, the maker of which has not
tendered the sum due at the place named in the contract.

SEC. 3872. There shall be taxed, in every
action tried in a court of record by a jury, a jury fee of six dollars, which,
when collected, shall be paid by the clerk into the county treasury; all such
fees, not previously reported, to be by him reported to the board of super
visors at each regular session, and by it charged to the treasurer. 

SEC. 3873. Compensation of arbitrators. Arbitra.tors shall be paid,
for each day actually and necessarily engaged in their oﬂicial duties, two
dollars, or such greater sum as the parties to the arbitration agree upon.

SEC. 3874. Of referees. Referees, acting under a submission by a
court in an action pending therein, shall receive such compensation as is
ﬁxed by the court or judge, or agreed upon by the parties to the action,
which shall be taxed as a part of the costs therein. 
SEC. 3875. Of reporters and clerks for transcripts. The fees of
shorthand reporters for making transcripts of the notes in any case or any
portion thereof, as directed by any party thereto, shall be taxed as costs,
as shall also the fees of the clerk for making any transcripts of the record
required on appeal, but such taxation may be revised by the supreme court
on motion on the appeal, without any motion in the lower court for the 1‘et8.~X
ation of costs.

SEC. 3876. Method. The plaintifff in a civil action may cause the
property of the defendant not exempt from execution to be attached at the
commencement or during the
course hereinafter prescribed.

SEC. 3877. Proceedings auxiliary. If it be subsequent to the com
mencement of the action, a separate petition must be ﬁled, and in all cases
the proceedings relative to the attachment are to be deemed independent of
the ordinary éwroeeedings and only auxiliary thereto.

SEC. 3878. The petition which asks an attachment must in all cases be sworn to. 
It must state one or more of the following grounds:
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation or acting as such;
2. That he is a nonresident of the state;
3. That he is aboutto remove his property out of the state without leaving
suﬂicient remaining for the payment of his debts;
4. That he has disposed of his property, in whole or in part, with intent
to defraud his creditors;
5. That the defendant is about to dispose of his property with intent to
defraud his creditors;
6. That he has absconded, so that the ordinary process cannot be
served upon him;
7. That he is about to remove permanently out of the county, and has
property therein not exempt from execution, and that he refuses to pay or
secure the plaintiﬁ ;
8. That he is about to remove permanently out of the state, and refuses
to pay or secure the debt due the plaintifff;
9. That he is about to remove his property or a part thereof out of the
county
with intent to defraud his creditors;
10. That he is about to convert his property or a part thereof into money
for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors;
11. That he has property or rights in action which he conceals;
12. That the debt is due for property obtained under false pretenses.
The causes for the attachment shall not be stated in the alternative.

SEC. 3879. Issued on Sunday. Where the petition states, in additionto
the other facts required, that the plaintifff will lose his claim unless the attach
ment issues and is served on Sunday, it may be issued and served on that
day. 

SEC. 3880. On contract-amount due. If the plaintifff's demand is 
petition must state that something is due, and, as
founded on contract, the
nearly as practicable, the amount, which must be more than ﬁve dollars in
order to authorize an attachment.

SEC. 3881. The amount thus
sworn to is intended as a guide to the sheriﬂ, who must, as nearly as the
circumstances of the case will permit, levy upon property ﬁfty per cent.
greater in value than that amount. 

SEC. 3882. Allowance of value in other cases. If the demand is not
founded on contract, the original petition must be presented to some judge
of the supreme, district or superior court, who shall make an allowance
thereon of the amount in value of the property that may be attached.

SEC. 3883. For debts not due—grounds. The property of a debtor
may be attached on debts not due, when nothing but time is wanting to ﬁx
an absolute indebtedness, and when the petition, in addition to that fact,
states one or more of the following grounds:
1. That the defendant is about to dispose of his property with intent to
defraud his creditors;
2. That he is about to remove or has removed from the state, and refuses
to secure the payment of the debt when it falls due, and which removal or
contemplated removal was not known to the plaintifff at\the time the debt
was contracted;
3. That the defendant has disposed of his property in whole or in part
with intent to defraud his creditors;
4. That the debt was incurred for property obtained under false
tenses.

SEC. 3884. Appearance in such cases-judgment. If, at the time of
the service of the attachment, the claim upon which suit is brought is
not due, the defendant need not appear in the action until the maturity of
the demand, unless he elects to plead, in which event the cause shall stand
for trial when it is reached in its regular order, and no ﬁnal judgment shall
be rendered therein before the maturity of _the debt unless such election is
made, but if perishable property is levied upon, it may be sold as in other
attachment cases. 

SEC. 3885. Bond. In all cases before it can be issued, the plaintifff
must ﬁle with the clerk a bond for the use of the defendant, with sureties to
be approved by such clerk, in a penalty at least double the value of the
property sought to be attached, and in no case less than two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars in a court of record, nor less than ﬁfty dollars if in a justice ’s
court, conditioned that the plaintifff will pay all damages which the defend
ant may sustain by reason of the wrongful suing out of the attachment.

SEC. 3886. The defendant may, at any time
before judgment, move the court or judge for additional security on the part
of the plaintiﬂ, and if, on such motion, the court or judge is satisﬁed that
the surety on the plaintifff ’s bond has removed from the state, or is not suﬂi
cient, the attachment may be vacated and restitution directed of any prop
erty taken under it, unless, in a reasonable time, to be ﬁxed by the court or
judge, security is given by the plaintiﬁ. 

SEC. 3887. Action on bond. In an action on such bond, the plain
tiif therein may recover, if he shows that the attachment was wrongfully
sued out, and that there was no reasonable cause to believe the ground upon
which the same was issued to be true, the actual damages sustained, and
reasonable attorney ’s fees to be ﬁxed by the court; and if it be shown such
attachment was sued out maliciously, he may recover exemplary damages,
nor need he wait until the
principal suit is determined before suing on the
bond.

SEC. 3888. Remedy for falsely suing out. The fact stated as acause
of attachment shall not be contested in the action by a mere defense.
The
defendant’s remedy shall be on the bond, but he may in his discretion sue
thereon by way of counterclaim, and in such case shall recover damag
as in an original action on such bond.
SEC. 3889. Writ to sheriff. The clerk shall issue a writ of attachment,
-directing the sheriﬁ of the county therein named to attach the
the defendant to the requisite amount therein stated.

SEC. 3890. Attachments may
be issued from the district court to diﬁerent counties, and several may, at
the option of the plaintiil, be issued at the same time, or in succession and
subsequently, until suﬂicient property has been attached; but only those
executed shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court;
and if more property is attached in the aggregate than the plaintifff is
entitled to, the surplus must be abandoned, and the plaintifff pay all costs
incurred in relation to such surplus. 

SEC. 3891. Property attached.
The sheriff shall in all cases attach
the amount of property directed, if sufficient, not exempt from execution,
is found in his county, giving that in which the defendant has a legal and
unquestionable title a p
only equitable.

SEC. 3892. Several attachments. Where there are several attach
ments against the same defendant, they
which they were received by the sheriﬁ.

SEC. 3893. Following property. If, after an attachment has been
placed in the hands of the sheriﬁ, any property of the defendant is moved
-from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in an adjoining
V-county within twenty-four hours after removal.

SEC. 3894. Corporation stock. Stock or interest owned by the defend
. ant in any company is attached by notifying the president or other head of
the company, or the secretary, cashier or other managing agent thereof, of
the fact that the stock has been so attached.

SEC. 3896. Judg-ments— money—things in action. Judgments,
money, bank bills and other things in action may be levied upon by the
oﬁicer under an attachment in the same manner as levies are made under
execution, except that notice of such levy shall be given as in levies by
attachment, and after judgment such property shall be sold, appropriated
or transferred as provided for in the chapter on executions.

SEC. 3896. Property in possession of another. Property of defend
ant in possession of another, and of which defendant is entitled to the
immediate possession, may be seized under attachment by taking possession
thereof, in the same manner as though found in the defendant’s possession.
SEC. 3897. Garnishment. Property of the defendant in the possession
of another, or debts due the defendant, may be attached by garnishment as
hereinafter provided

SEC. 3898. When property bound. Property capable of manual
delivery, and attached otherwise than by garnishment, is bound thereby
from the time manual custody thereof is taken by the officer under the 
attachment.

SEC. 3899. Real property—1ien-entry on encumbrance book. Real
estate or equitable interests therein may be attached, and the levy shall be
a lien thereon from the time of an entry made and signed by the oﬁicer mak
ing the same upon the encumbrance book in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the county
in which the land is situated, showing the levy, the date thereof, name of
the county from which the attachment issued, title of the action, and a.
description of the land levied on. In case of a levy upon any equitable
interest in real estate, such entry shall show, in addition to the foregoing
matters, the name of the person holding the legal title, and the owner of
the alleged equitable interest, where known. The grantor of real estate
conveyed in fraud of creditors shall, as to such creditors, be deemed the
equitable owner thereof, and such interest may be attached as above
etition alleges such fraudulent conveyance and the holdervided, when the p
of the legal title is made a party to the action.

SEC. 8900. Notice-—return. When any property is attached, the oﬁicer
making the levy shall at once give written notice thereof to the defendant,
f found within the county in which the levy is made, and the fact of the
giving of such notice, or that the defendant is not found within the county,
shall be shown by the oﬂicer’s return. A like notice shall be given to the
party in possession of the property attached. If the party required to be
notiﬁed is not found at his usual place of business or residence, such notice
may be served upon a member of his family

SEC. 3901. Examination of defendant. Whenever it appears by the
aﬂidavit of the plaintifff, or by the return of the attachment, that no property is
known to the plaintiﬁ or the oﬂicer on which the attachment can be executed,
or not enough to satisfy the plaintifff’s claim, and it being shown to the judge
of any court by aﬁidavit that the defendant has property within the state not
exempt, the defendant may be required by such judge to attend before him,
or before the court in which the action is pending, or a commissioner appointed
for that purpose, and give information on oath respecting his property. 

SEC. 3902. Money paid clerk. All money attached by the sheriﬁ, or
coming into his hands by virtue of the attachment, shall forthwith be paid
over to the clerk, to be by him retained till the further action of the court.

SEC. 3903. Other property. The sheriﬁ shall make such disposition
of other attached property as may be directed by the cdurt or judge, and,
Where there is no direction upon the subject, he shall safely keep the prop
erty subject to the order of the court.

SEC. 3904. Partnership property-receiver. In executing an attach
ment against a person who owns property jointly or in common with another,
or who is a member of a partnership, the oﬁicer may take possession of such
property so owned jointly, in common, or in partnership, suﬂiciently to enable
him to inventory and appraise the same, and for that purpose shall call to
his assistance three disinterested persons; which inventory and appraisement
shall be returned by the oﬂicer with the attachment, and such return shall
state who claims to own such property. The plaintifff shall, from the time
such property is taken possession of by the oﬂicer, have a lien on the inter
est of the defendant therein, and may, either before or after he obtains judg
ment in the action in which the attachment issued, commence action by
equitable proceedings to ascertain the nature and extent of such interest and
to enforce the lien; and, if deemed necessary or proper, the court or judge
may appoint a receiver under the circumstances and conditions provided in chapter twelve, of title eighteen of this code. 

SEC. 3906. Mortg-aged personalproperty. Mortgaged personal prop
erty may be levied on under attachment in the method provided for levying
execution thereon. 
SEC. 3906. Indemnifying bond. The provisions as tonotice of own
ership and indemnifying bond to be given in cases of levies under execution
shall in all respects be applicable to levies made under writs of attachment.
SEC. 3907. Bond to discharge. If the defendant, at any time before
judgment, causes a bond to be executed to the plaintifff with sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by the oﬂ-icer having the attachment, or after the return
thereof by the clerk, to the eﬁect that he will perform the judgment of the
court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of property
taken or proceeds thereof. The execution of such bond shall be deemed
an2ap]pearance of such defendant to the action. 

SEC. 3908. Judgmenton bond. Suchbond shall be part of the record.
If judgment go against the defendant, the same shall be entered against
him and sureties. 
SEC. 3909. Delivery bond. The defendant, or any person in whose
possession any attached property is found, or any person making aﬁidavit
that he has an interest in it, may, at any time before judgment, discharge
the property attached, or any part thereof, by giving bond with security, to
be approved by the sheriff, or after the return of the writ by the clerk, in a‘
penalty at least double the value of the property sought to be released, but
if that sum would exceed double the amount of the claim for which an attach
ment is sued out, then in such sum as equals double the amount of such
claim, conditioned that such property or its appraised value shall be deliv
ered to the sheriff, to satisfy any judgment which may be obtained against
the defendant in that suit, within twenty days after the rendition thereof.
This bond shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court.

SEC. 3910. Appraisement. To determine the value of property in
cases where a bond is to be given, unless the parties agree otherwise, the
sheriff shall summon two disinterested persons having the qualiﬁcation of
jurors, who, after having been sworn by him to make the appraisement
faithfully and impartially, shall proceed to the discharge of their duty. If
such persons disagree as to the value of the property, the sheriff shall
decide between them. 
SEC. 3911. Defense in action on delivery bond. In an action brought
upon such bond, it shall be a suﬁicient defense that the property for the de
livery of which the bond was given did not, at the time of the levy, belong
to the defendant against whom the attachment was issued, or was exempt
fromseizure under suchattachment. 
SEC. 3912. Sale of perishable property. When the property attached
is in danger of immediate and serious waste or decay, or when the
keeping of the same will necessarily be attended with such expense as to
greatly depreciate the amount of proceeds to be realized therefrom, or, by
agreement of all parties interested, or upon the application of the sheriff or
any party to the action, the court or a judge thereof, upon such notice as it
or he may prescribe, may order the sale of any or all of such property.
notice to be given thereof, as ﬁxed in the order, which may require an
appraisement of any part or all of such property. If the owner defendant
is a nonresident, and makes an appearance, no notice of the application for
the order need be given. 
SEC. 3913. Speciﬁc attachments. In an action to enforce a mortgage
of or lien upon personal property, or for the recovery, sale or partition of
such property, or by a plaintifff having a future estate or interest therein
for the security of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears by the petition.
veriﬁed on oath, or by aﬂidavits or the proofs in the cause, that the plaintifff
has a just claim, and that the property has been or is about to be sold, con
cealed or removed from the state, or where plaintifff states on oath that he
has reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, that unless prevented by
the court the property will be so sold, concealed or removed, an attachment
may be granted against the property. 

SEC. 3915. Granted by court or judge-—terms. The attachment in
the cases mentioned in the last two sections may be granted by the court in
which the action is brought, or by the judge of any court, upon such terms
and conditions as to securit by the plaintiff for the damages which may be
occasioned, and with such ' ections as to the disposition to be made of the
property attached as may be just and proper under the circumstances of
each case. 
SEC. 3916. Writ for attachment of speciﬁc property. The attach
ment shall describe the speciﬁc property against which it is issued, and
have indorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge as to the dispo
sition to be made of the attached property, and be directed, executed and
returned as other attachments. [C. ’73, § 3003; R., § 3230.]
SEC. 3917. Terms of bond to discharge. The court may, in any of
the cases mentioned under this head of speciﬁc attachments, direct the terms
and conditions of the bond to be executed by the defendant, with security,
in order to obtain a discharge of the attachment or to release the attached
property. [C.’73, § 3004; R., §3231.]
SEC. 3918. Indebtedness due the state—security demanded. In
all cases in which any person is indebted to the state, or to any ofﬁcer or
agent thereof for the use or beneﬁt of the state, the proper county attorney
or attorney-general shall demand payment or security therefore, when, in
the opinion of said county attorney or attorney-general, the debt is not sulﬁ
ciently secured. [C.’73, § 3005.]
SEC. 3919. Attachment. In all actions for money due to the state, or
to any agent or olﬁcer for the use of the state, it shall be lawful for an attach
ment to issue against the property or debts of the defendant not exempt
from execution, upon the ﬁling of an affidavit by the county attorney of the
proper county, or of the attorney-general, that he verily believes that a
speciﬁc amount therein stated is justly due, and the defendant therein has
refused to pay or secure the same, and unless an attachment is issued
against the property of the defendant there is danger that the amount due
will be lost to the state. 
SEC. 3920. No bond required. The attachment so issued shall be
levied as in other cases of attachment, and no bond shall be required of
the plaintifff in such cases, and the sheriff shall not be authorized to require
any indemnifying bond in case of such levy. [C. ’73, § 3007.]
SEC. 3921. Bond to discharge or release. An attachment levied
under the provisions of the two preceding sections may be discharged, or
any property taken thereunder may be released, by the execution of a bond
with sufﬁcient sureties, as provided by law in other cases of attachment.

SEC. 3922. Sheriff indemniﬁed. In case any sheriff shall be held
liable to pay any damages by reason of the wrongful execution of any writ
of attachment issued under the three preceding sections, and if a judgment
is rendered therefore, the amount thereof, when paid by such sheriﬁ, shall
become a claim against the state in his favor, and a warrant therefore shall
be drawn by the auditor upon proper proof. [G.’73, § 3009.]
SEC. 3923. Sheriﬂ"s return. The sheriff shall return upon every
attachment what he has done under it, which must show the property
attached, the time it was attached, and the disposition made of it, by a full
and particular inventory; also the appraisement above contemplated when
such has been made. When garnishees are summoned, their names and the
time each was summoned must be stated, with a copy of each notice of gar
nishment served attached as a part of his return. Where real property is
attached, the sheriff shall describe it with certainty to identify it, and,
where he can do so, by a reference to the book and page where the deed
under which the defendant holds is recorded. . He shall return with the
writ all bonds taken under it, any notice of claim to such property by
another than the defendant, any indemnifying bond given by the plaintifff
in consequence of such notice, and all money and bank bills levied upon or
paid to him thereunder. Such return must be made immediately after he
has attached suﬁicient property, or all that he can ﬁnd; or, at latest, on the
ﬁrst day of the ﬁrst term on which the defendant is notified to appear.

SEC. 3924. Judg'ment—satisﬂed from proceeds. If judgment is ren
dered for the plaintifff in any case in which an attachment has been issued,
the court shall apply, in satisfaction thereof, any money seized by or paid
to the sheriff under such attachment and by him "delivered to the clerk, and
any money arising from the sales of perishable property, and if the same is
not suﬂicient to satisfy the plaintiﬁ’s claim, the court shall order the issu
ance of a special execution for the sale of any other attached property which
may be under his control.
SEC. 3925. The court may from time to time make and enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales and application of the money collected.
SEC. 3926. Expenses for keeping. The sheriff shall be allowed by the
court the necessary expenses of keeping the attached pro erty, to be
by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs.

SEC. 3927. Surplus. Any surplus of the attached property and its
proceeds shall be returned to the defendant. [C. ’73, § 3014; R., § 3235.]
SEC. 8928. Intervention. Any person other than the defendant may,
before the sale of any attached property, or before the payment to the plain
tiff of the proceeds thereof, or any attached debt, present his petition veriﬁed
by oath to the court, disputing the validity of the attachment, or stating a
claim to the property or money, or to an interest in or lien on it, under any
other attachment or otherwise, and setting forth the facts upon which the
claim is founded; and the petitioner ’s claim shall be in a summary manner
investigated. The court may hear the proof or order a reference, or may
empanel a jury to inquire into the facts. If it is found that the petitioner
has a title to, a lien on or any interest in such property, the court shall make
such order as may be necessary to protect his rights. The costs of such
proceedings shall be paid by either party at the discretion of the court.

SEC. 3929. A motion may be made to discharge
the attachment or any part thereof, at any time before trial, for insuﬁiciency
of statement of cause thereof, or for other cause making it apparent of rec
ord that the attachment should not have issued, or should not have been levied
on all or on some part of the property held.

SEC. 3930. Discharg-e—return of property.
If the judgment is ren
dered in the action for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged
property attached, or its proceeds shall be returned to him.

SEC. 3931. When an attachment has been discharged, if the 
plaintifff then announces his purpose
to appeal from such order of discharge, he shall have two days in which to
perfect his appeal, and during that time such discharge shall not operate to
divest any lien or claim under the attachment, nor shall the property be
returned, and the appeal, if so
thereof. 

SEC. 3932. From judgment against plaintiﬁ. If a judgment in the
action be also given against the plaintifff, he must, within the same time,
take his appeal thereon, or such discharge shall be ﬁnal.

SEC. 3933. Liberal construction—amendments. This chapter shall
be liberally construed, and the plaintifff, at any time when objection is made
t-hereto, shall be permitted to amend any defect in the petition, aﬁidavit,
bond, writ or other proceeding; and no attachment shall be quashed or dis
missed, or the property attached released, if the defect in any of the pro
ceedings has or can be amended so as to show that a legal cause for the
attachment existed at the time it was issued; and the court shall give the
plaintiﬁ a reasonable time to perfect such defective proceedings. 

SEC. 3984. Sheriﬂ'—constab1es. The word “she1'iﬂ,” or “oﬂicer, ” as
used in this chapter, is meant to apply to constables when the proceedings
are in a justice ’s court, or the like oﬁicer of any other court. 

SEC. 3935. How eﬂ‘ected—notice. The ofﬁcer serving a writ of
attachment shall garnish such persons as the plaintiﬁ may direct as sup
posed debtors, or having in possession property of the principal defendant,
which shall be effected by a notice served in the manner and as an original
notice in civil actions, forbidding his paying any debt owing such defendant,
due or to become due, and requiring him to retain possession of all property
of the defendant in his hands or under his control, to the end that the same
may be dealt with according to law, and, unless answers are required to be
taken as hereina.fter provided, it shall cite the garnishee to appear on the
ﬁrst day of the next term, if the main cause is pending in a court of record,
01' not less than ten days thereafter, if such court is then in session, or on the
day set for trial, if in a justice ‘s court, and answer such interrogatories as
may be propounded, or he will be liable to pay any judgment which the
plaintiﬂ’ may obtain against the defendant. 

SEC. 3936. Of oﬁicer, judgment debtor, executor, municipal cor
poration. A sheriff or constable may be garnished for money of the defend
ant in his hands; a judgment debtor of the defendant, when the judgment
has not been assigned on the record, or by writing ﬁled in the oﬂice of the
clerk and by him minuted as an assignment on the margin of the judgment
docket; and an executor, for money
due from decedent; but a municipal or
political corporation shall not be garnished. 

SEC. 3937. Fimd in court. Where the property to be attached is a
fund in court, the execution of a writ of attachment shall be by leaving with
the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with notice, specifying the fund. 
SEC. 3938. If the garnishee dies after he has
been summoned by garnishment and pending the litigation, the proceedings
may be revived by or against his heirs or legal representatives.

SEC. 3939. Sheriff may take answers. When the plaintiﬁ, in writing,
directs the sheriff to take the answer of the garnishee, he shall put to him
the following questions:
1. Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant in this suit, or do you
owe him money or property which is not yet due? If so, state the partie
ulars;
2. Have you in your possession or under your control any property,
rights or credits of the said defendants? If so, what is the value of the
Samge? and state all particulars;
. Do you know of any debts owing the said defendant, whether due or
not due, or any property, rights or credits belonging to him and now in the
possession or under the control of others? If so, state the particulars
The sheriff shall append the examination to his return.

SEC. 3940. Garnishee required to appear. If the garnishee refuses
to answer fully and unequivocally all the foregoing interrogatories, he
shall be notiﬁed to appear and answer as above provided and he may
be so required in any event, if the plaintifff so notiﬁes him.

SEC. 3941. The questions propounded to the garnishee
in court may be such as are above prescribed to be asked by the sheriff, and
such others as the court may think proper. 

SEC. 3942. Where the garnishee is required to appear
at court, unless he has refused to answer as contemplated above, he is enti
tled to the
advance
pay and mileage of a witness, and may, in like manner, require
payment before any liability shall arise for non-attendance. 
SEC. 3943. Failure to appear or answer—ca.use shown. If duly
summoned, and his fees tendered when demanded, he fails to appear and
answer the interrogatories propounded to him without sufficient excuse, he
shall be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full amount of
the
plaintifff ’s demand for a mere failure to appear, but no judgment shall
be rendered against him until he has had an opportunity to show cause
against the same.

SEC. 3944. Paying or delivering. Agarnishee may, at any time after
answer, exonerate himself from further responsibility by paying over to
the sheriff t-he amount owing by him to the defendant, and placing at the
sheriff ‘s disposal the property of the defendant, or so much of said debts
and property as is equal to the value of the property to be attached. 

SEC. 3946. Answer controverted. When the garnishee has answered
the interrogatories propounded to him, the plaintifff may controvert them by
pleading thereto, and an issue may be joined, which shall be tried in the
usual manner, upon which trial such answer of the garnishee shall be com
petent testimony.
SEC. 3946. Judgment. If in any of the above methods it is made to
appear that the garnishee was indebted to the defendant, or had any of his
property in his hands, at the time of being served with the notice of garnish
ment, he will be liable to the plaintifff, in case judgment is ﬁnally recovered
by him, to the full amount thereof, or to the amount of such indebtedness
or property held by the garnishee, and the plaintifff may have a judgment
against the garnishee for the amount of money due from the garnishee to
the defendant in the main action, or for the delivery to the sheriﬁ of any
money or property in the garnishee’s hands belonging to the defendant in
the main action within a time to be ﬁxed by the court, and for the value of
the same, as ﬁxed in said judgment, if not delivered within the time thus
ﬁxed, unless before such judgment is entered the garnishee has delivered
to the sheriff such money or property. Property so delivered shall there
pon under the writ of attachment in the usual
after be treated as if levied u
manner.

SEC. 3947. Judgment against the garnishee
shall not be entered until the principal defendant shall have had ten days‘
notice of the garnishment proceedings, to be served in the same manner as
original motions.

SEC. 3948. Pleading by defendant. The defendant in the main action
may, by a suitable pleading ﬁled in the garnishment proceedings, set up
facts showing that the debt or the property with which it is sought to charge
the garnishee is exempt from execution, or for any other reason is not liable
for plaintifffs claim, and if issue thereon be joined by the plaintifff, it shall
be tried with the issues as to the garnishee’s liability. If such debt or prop
erty, or any part thereof, is found to be thus exempt or not liable, the gar
nishee shall be discharged.
SEC. 3949. When debt not due. V
defendant is not due, execution shall be suspended until its maturity.
SEC. 3960. Negotiable paper.
If the debt of the garnishee to the
The garnishee shall not be made liable
on a debt due by negotiable paper, unless such paper is delivered, or the
garnishee completely exonerated or indemniﬁed from all liability thereon
after he may have satisﬁed the judgment.

SEC. 3951. The judgment in the garnishment
action, condemning the property or debt in the hands of the garnishee to
the satisfaction of the plaintifff ’s demand, is conclusive between the garnishee
and defendant.

SEC. 3952. Docket to show garnishments.
The dooketing of the
original case shall contain a statement of all the garnishments therein, and
when judgment is rendered against a garnishee, the same shall distinctly
refer to the original judgment.

SEC. 3953. Appeal. An appeal lies in all garnishment cases at the
instance of the plaintifff, the defendant, the garnishee, or an intervenor
claiming the money or property.

SEC. 3954. On judgments or orders-attachment for contempts.
Judgments or orders requiring the payment of money, or the delivery of the
possession of property, are to be enforced by execution. Obedience to those
requiring the performance of any other act is to be coerced by attachment
as for a contempt. 

SEC. 3955.
Within what time—to other counties—but one.
Execu
tions may issue at any time before the judgment is barred by the statute of
limitations; and upon those in the district and supreme courts, into any
county which the party ordering may direct, but only one shall be in existence at the same time.
SEC. 3996. An execution may be issued and executed on Sunday, when an affidavit is filed by the plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, stating that he believes he will lose his judgment unless process issues on that day.
SEC. 3957. On demand of party-entries by clerk. Upon the rendi
tion of judgment, execution may be at once issued by
demand of the party
the clerk on the
entitled thereto; who shall enter on the judgment
docket the date of its issuance, and to what county and oﬂicer issued, the
return of the officer, with the date thereof, the dates and amount of all
monies received or
paid out of the oﬁice thereon; which entries shall be
made at the time each act is done.

SEC. 8968. Entries in another county. In case execution is issued
to a county other than that in which judgment is rendered, and is levied
upon real estate in such county, an entry thereof shall be made upon the
encumbrance book of that county by the oﬂicer making it, showing the same
particulars as are required in case of the attachment of real estate, which
shall be bound from the time of such entry.

SEC. 3959. Return from another county. When sent into any county
Other than that in which the judgment was rendered, return may be made
by mail.
entitled thereto, or his attorney.
SEC. 3960. Form of execution.
But money cannot thus be sent, except by direction of the
The execution must intelligibly refer
to the judgment, stating the time when and place at which it was rendered,
the names of the parties to the action as well as to the judgment, its amount,
and the amount still to be collected thereon, if for money; if not, it must
state what speciﬁc act is required to be performed. If it is against the
property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the sheriﬁ to satisfy the
judgment and interest out of property of the debtor subject to execution.

SEC. 3961. Against property. If it is against real or personal prop
erty
in the hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of real property or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy
the judgment and interest out of such property.

SEC. 3962. For delivery of possession.
If it is for the delivery of
deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
equire the sheriff to
party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require him to satisfy any costs,
damages or rents and proﬁts, with interest, recovered by the same judgment,
out of the property of the party against whom it was rendered subject to
execution, and the value of the property for which judgment was recovered
shall be speciﬁed therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and it shall
in that respect be regarded as an execution against property. 

SEC. 3963. When for performance of any other act. When it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment
may be served on the person against whom it is rendered, or upon the per
son or oﬂicer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his
obedience thereto enforced. 

SEC. 3964. Oﬁcer to receipt for—return. Every officer to whose
hands an execution may come shall give a receipt therefore, if required,
stating the hour when the same was received, and shall make suﬁicient
return thereof, together with the money collected, on or before the seven
tieth day from the date of its issuance.

SEC. 3965. The oﬁicer to whom an execu
tion is issued shall indorse thereon the day and hour when he received it,
the levy, sale or other act done by virtue thereof, with the date thereof, the
dates and amounts of any receipts or payment in satisfaction thereof; which
entries must be made at the time of the receipt or act done.

SEC. 3966. Against principal and surety—order of liability. The
clerk issuing an execution on a judgment against principal and surety shall
state in the execution the order of liability recited in the judgment, and the
ofﬁcer serving it shall exhaust the property of the principal ﬁrst, and of the
other defendants in the order of liability thus stated; but each person sub
sequently liable shall, if requested by the oﬂicer, point out property owned
by the party liable, before him, to obtain the beneﬁts of this provision. To
obtain the beneﬁts of this section, the order of liability must be recited in
the execution, and the officer holding it must separately return thereon the
amount collected from the principal debtor and surety.
SEC. 3967. When the principal and surety are
liable for any claim, such surety may pay the same, and recover thereon
against all liable to him. If a judgment against principal and surety has
been paid by the surety, he shall be subrogated to all the rights of the cred
itor, and may take an assignment thereof, and enforce the same by execution
or otherwise, as the creditor could have done. All questions between the
parties thereto may be heard and determined on motion by the court, or a
judge thereof, upon such notice as may be prescribed by it or him. 

SEC. 3968. Levy—how made an indorsed. When an execution is
delivered to an oﬁicer, he must proceed. to execute it with diligence; if
executed, an exact description of the property at length, with the date of the
levy, shall be indorsed upon or appended to the execution and if it was not
executed, or only executed in part, the reason in such case must be stated
in the return. 

SEC. 3969. What acts necessary. The oﬁicer must execute the writ
by levying on the property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in
action by suit in his own name, if necessary, or by selling the same, selling
the other property, and paying to the clerk or the plaintifff the proceeds, or
so much thereof as will satisfy
the execution. He may retain his own costs
on receipting therefore on the judgment docket.

SEC. 3970. What property-no lien on personalty. The ofﬁcer
shall in all cases select such property, and in such quantities, as will be
likely to bring the exact amount required to be raised, as nearly as prac
ticable, and, having made one levy, may at any time thereafter make others,
if he ﬁnds it necessary. But no execution shall be a lien on personal property before the actual levy thereof.

SEC. 3971. Judgments, money, bank bills and other things in action may be levied upon, and sold
or appropriated thereunder, and an assignment thereof by the oiﬁcer shall
have the same eﬁect as if made by the defendant. The levy upon a judg
ment shall be made by entering upon the judgment docket a memorandum of
such fact, giving the names of the parties plaintifff and defendant, the court
from which the execution issued, and the date and hour of such entry,
which shall be signed by the oﬁicer serving the execution, and a return
made on the execution of his doings in the premises.

SEC. 3972. After the rendition of judg
ment, any person indebted to the defendant in execution may pay to the
sheriff the amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as is necessary
to satisfy
the execution, and his recei
pt shall be a sufficient discharge therefore.

SEC. 3973. Against municipal corporation-levy of tax. If no
pro
perty of a municipal corporation against which execution has issued can
be found, or if the judgment creditor elects not to issue execution against
such corporation, a tax must be levied as early as practicable to pay off the
judgment. When a tax has been so levied and any part thereof shall be
collected, the treasurer of such corporation shall pay the same to the clerk
of the court in which the judgment was rendered, in satisfaction thereof.

SEC. 3974. Corporation stock-debt-.s—property in hands of third
persons. Stock or interest owned by the defendant in any company or
corporation, and also debts due him and property of his in the hands of
third persons, may be levied upon in the manner provided for attaching the
same.

SEC. 3975. Property o fthe defendant in the possession of another, or debts due him, may be reached by garnishment.

SEc. 3976. Expiration or return of execution—return of garnish
ments. Proceedings by garnishment on execution shall not be affected by
its expiration or its return. Where parties have been garnished under it,
the oﬁicer sh-all return to the next term thereafter a copy of the execution
with all his doings thereon, so far as they relate to the garnishments, and
the clerk shall docket an action thereon without fee, and thereafter the pro
ceedings shall conform to proceedings in garnishment under attachments as
nearly as may be. [C.’73, §-3052; R., § 3271.]
SEC. 3977. Joint or partnership property. When an oﬁicer has an
execution against a person who owns property jointly, in common or in
partnership with another, such ofﬁcer may levy on and take possession of the
property owned jointly, in common or in partnership sufficiently to enable
him to appraise and inventory the same, and for that purpose shall call to
his assistance three disinterested persons, which inventory and appraise
ment shall be returned by the oﬂicer with the execution, and shall state in
his return Who claims to own the property. 
SEC. 3978. Lien—equita.b1e proceeding-receiver. The plaintiﬁ
shall, from the time such property is so levied on," have a lien on the interest
of the defendant therein, and may commence an action by equitable proceed
ings to ascertain the nature and extent of such interest and to enforce the
lien; and, if deemed necessary or proper, the court or judge may appoint a
receiver under the circumstances provided in the chapter relating to
receivers. 

SEC. 3979. Levies upon mortgaged personal property—payment
or deposit.
Mortgaged personal property not exempt from execution may
be taken on attachment or execution issued against the mortgagor, if the
ofﬁcer, or the attachment or execution creditor, within ten days after such
levy, shall pay to the holder of the mortgage the amount of the mortgage
debt and interest accrued, or deposit the same with the clerk of the district
court of the county from which the attachment or execution issued, for the
use of the holder of the mortgage, or secure the same as in this chapter pro
vided. 

SEC. 3980. Interest. When the debt secured by the mortgage is not
due as shown by the mortgage, the oﬂicer, or the attachment or execution
creditor, must also pay or deposit with the clerk interest on the principal
sum at the rate speciﬁed in the mortgage for the term of sixty days from the
date of the deposit, unless the debt secured falls due in a less time, in which
case interest shall be deposited for such shorter period. [Same, § 2.]
SEC. 3981. Failure to pay, deposit or give security. If within ten
days after such levy the attachment or execution creditor does not pay the
amount, make the deposit, or give the security required, the levy shall be
discharged, and the property restored to the possession of the person from
whom it was taken and the creditor shall be liable to the holder of the
mortgage for any damages sustained by reason of such levy. [Same, § 2.]
SEC. 3982. Creditor subrogated. When such sum is paid to the holder
of the mortgage or deposited with the clerk, the attachment or execution
creditor shall be subrogated to all the rights of such holder, and the pro
ceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property shall be ﬁrst applied to the
discharge of such indebtedness and the costs incurred under the writ of
attachment or execution. 

SEC. 3983. H, for any reason, the levy upon the
mortgaged property is discharged or released without a sale thereof, the
attachment or execution creditor who has paid or deposited the amount of
the mortgage debt shall have all the rights under such mortgage possessed
by the holder at the time of the levy. If the holder thereof desires to be
reinstated in his rights thereunder, he may repay the money received by
him, with interest thereon at the rate borne by the mortgage debt for the
time it has been held by him, and demand the return of the mortgage,
whereupon his rights thereunder shall revest in him, and the attachment
or execution creditor shall be entitled to the deposit made, or any part
thereof remaining in the hands of the clerk, or any money returned to the
clerk by the holder of the mortgage. [Same, § 2.]
SEC. 3984. Statement by holder of amount due. The holder of the
mortgage shall, before receiving the money tendered to him by the attach
ing or execution creditor or deposited with the clerk, state over his signa
ture and under oath, on the back of the mortgage, the amount due or to
become due thereon, and deliver the same, together with the note or other
evidence of indebtedness secured by said mortgage, to the person paying
the said amount or the clerk with whom the deposit is made, and the holder
of the mortgage shall only receive the amount so stated to be due, and the sur
plus, if any, shall be returned to the person making the deposit. [Same, § 2.]
SEC. 3986. Indemnifying bond released. When the attaching or
execution creditor thus pays or deposits the amount of the claim under the
mortgage, he shall not be required to give an indemnifying bond on notice
to the sheriff by the holder of the mortgage of his right to the property
thereunder, or if one has been given, it shall be released.
SEC. 3986. Costs-—su.rp1us. If under execution sale the mortgaged
property does not sell for enough to pay the mortgage debt, interest and
costs of sale, the judgment creditor shall be liable for all costs thus made,
but if a greater sum is realized, the oﬁicer conducting the sale shall at once
pay to the mortgage holder the amount due thereunder, and apply the sur
plus on the execution. [21 G. A., ch. 117, § 3.]
SEC. 3987. Statement of indebtedness. For the purpose of enabling
the attaching or execution creditor to determine the amount to be tendered
or deposited to hold the levy under the writ of attachment or execution, the
person entitled to receive payment of the mortgage debt shall deliver to any
such person, upon written demand therefore, a statement in writing under
oath, showing the nature and amount of the original debt, the date and the
amount of each payment, if any, which has been made thereon, and an
itemized statement of the amount then due and unpaid. [Same, § 2, 5.]
SEC. 3988. Contest as to validity or amount. Lf the right of the
mortgagee to receive such or any sum is for any reason questioned by the
levying creditor, he may, within ten days after levy, or after demand is
made for a statement of the amount due as above provided, commence an
action in equity or contest such right upon ﬁling a bond in a penalty double
the amount of such mortgage, conditioned for the payment of any sum to be
found due to the person entitled thereto, with sureties to be approved by
the clerk, and if such mortgagee is a nonresident or his residence is unknown,
service may be made by publication as in other actions, but if such residence
becomes known before ﬁnal submission, the court may order personal service
to be made. If commenced at law, the court may transfer the same to the
equity side as in other cases. The court may appoint a receiver, and shall
determine the amount due on the mortgage, and all other questions properly
presented, and may continue and preserve or dismiss the lien of the levy,
the costs to be taxed to the losing party as in other cases. If there are two
or more mortgages, the creditor may admit the validity of one or more, and
make the required deposit as to such, and contest the other, and where there
are two or more such mortgages, each of which is questioned, a failure to
establish the invalidity of all shall not defeat the rights of the levying cred
itor, but in such case the decree shall determine the priority of liens, and
direct the order of payment out of the proceeds of the property which shall
be sold under special execution to be awarded in said cause; but nothing in
this chapter contained shall be construed to forbid or in any way aﬁect the
right of a creditor to contest in any other way the validity of any mortgage

SEC. 3989. Failure to make statement. A failure to make the state
ment, when required as above provided, shall have the effect to postpone
the lien of the mortgage and give the levy of the Writ of attachment or exe
cution priority over the claim of the holder thereof. [Same, § 6.]
SEC. 3990. Where mortgagee has been garnished. If the mortgagee,
before the levy of a writ of attachment or execution, has been garnished at
the suit of a creditor of the mortgagor, a creditor desiring to seize the mort
gaged property under a writ of attachment or execution shall pay to the
holder of the mortgage, or deposit with the clerk, in addition to the mort
gage debt, the sum claimed under the garnishment, and the provisions of
this chapter, so far as applicable, in all respects shall govern proceedings
relating thereto.
SEC. 3991. Indemnifying bond—notice of claim to property. An
oﬂicer is bound to levy an execution on any personal property in the posses
sion of, or that he has reason to believe belongs to, the defendant, or on
which the plaintiﬁ directs him to levy, unless he has received noticein
writing under oath from some other person, his agent or attorney, that such
property belongs to him; stating the nature of his interests therein, how
and from whom he acquired the same, and consideration paid therefore; or
from the defendant, that the property is exempt from execution; but failure
to give such notice shall not deprive the party of any other remedy. Or, if
after levy he receives such notice, such oﬂicer may release the property
unless a bond is given as provided in the next section; but the oﬂicer shall
be protected from all liability by reason of such levy until he receives such
written notice. 

SEC. 3992. Conditions of bond-return. When the ofﬁcer receives
such notice he may forthwith give the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, notice
that an indemnifying bond is required. Bond may thereupon be given by
or for the plaintifff, with one or more sufﬁcient sureties, to be approved by
the officer, to the effect that the obligors will indemnify him against the dam
ages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of the prop
erty, and will pay to any claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in
consequence of the seizure or sale, and will warrant to any purchaser of the
property such estate or interest therein as is sold; and thereupon the officer
shall proceed to subject the property to the execution, and shall return the
indemnifying bond to the court from which the execution issued.

SEC. 3993. Failure to give bond. If such bond is not given, the
oﬁicer may refuse to levy, or if he has done so, and the bond is not given in
a reasonable time after it is required by the ofﬁcer, he may restore the prop
erty to the person from whose possession it was taken, and the levy shall
stand discharged.

SEC. 3994. Application of proceeds. Where property for the sale of
which the otﬁcer is indemniﬁed sells for more than enough to satisfy the
execution under which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid into the court
to which the indemnifying bond is directed to be returned. The court may
order such disposition or payment of the money to be made, temporarily or
absolutely, as may be proper in respect to the rights of the parties inter
ested. 
SEC. 8995. Executions byjustices. The provisions of the preceding sections, as to bonds, shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued
by justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds shall be returned in such
cases with the execution under which they are taken. 
SEC. 3996. Stay of execution—how effected. On all judgments for
the recovery of money, except those rendered on any appeal or writ of
error, or in favor of a laborer or mechanic for his wages, or against one
who is surety in the stay of execution, or against any oﬂicer, person or cor
poration, or the sureties of any of them, for money received in a ﬁduciary
capacity, or for the breach of any oﬁicial duty, there may be a stay of
execution, if the defendant therein shall, within ten days from the entry of
judgment, procure one 01' more suﬂicient freehold sureties to enter into a
bond, acknowledging themselves security for the defendant for the payment
of the judgment, interest and costs from the time of rendering judgment
until paid, as follows:
1. If the sum for which judgment was rendered, inclusive of costs, does
not exceed one hundred dollars, three months;
2. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, six months.

SEC. 3997. Aﬁdavit of surety. Olﬁcers approving stay bonds shall.
require the aﬁidavit of the signers thereof, unless waived in writing by the
party in whose favor the judgment is rendered, that they own property not
exempt from execution, and aside from encumbrance, to the value of twice
the amount of the judgment. 
SEC. 3998. Stay waives appeal. No appeal shall be allowed attera
stay of execution has been obtained.

SEC. 3999. Bond—approval—recording-—eﬁ‘ect. The sureties for
stay of execution may be taken and approved by the clerk, and the bond
shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, and have the force and
effect of a judgment confessed from the date thereof against their property,
and shall be indexed in the proper judgment docket, as in case of other
judgments.

SEC. 4000. Execution recalled. When the bond is accepted and
approved after execution has been issued, the clerk shall immediately
notify the sheriff of the stay, and he shall forthwith return the execution
with his doings thereon. 
SEC. 4001. Property released. All property levied on or before stay
of execution, and all written undertakings for the delivery of personal prop
erty to the sheriff, shall be relinquished by the officer, upon stay of execu
tion being entered.
SEC. 4002. Execution against principal and sureties. At the expi
ration of the stay, the clerk shall issue a joint execution against the prop
erty of all the judgment debtors and sureties, describing them as debtors or
sureties therein, and the liability of such sureties shall be subject to that
of their principal as provided in this chapter. 

SEC. 4003. Objection by surety. \Vhen any court shall render judg
ment against two or more persons, any of whom is surety for any other in
the contract on which judgment is founded, there shall be no stay of execu
tion allowed, if the surety objects thereto at or before the time of rendering
the judgment, whereupon it shall be ordered by the court that there be no
stay, unless the surety for the stay of execution will undertake speciﬁcally
to pay the judgment in case the amount thereof cannot be levied of the prin
cipal defendant, and the judgment shall recite that the liability of such stay
is prior to that of the objecting surety.

SEC. 4004. Stay terminated by surety. Any surety for the stay of
execution may ﬁle with the clerk an afﬁdavit, stating that he verily believes
he will be compelled to pay the judgment, interest and costs thereon
unless execution issues immediately, and gives notice thereof in writing to
the party for whom he is surety; and the clerk shall thereupon issue execu
tion forthwith, unless other sufﬁcient surety be entered before the clerk
within ﬁve days after such notice is given as in other cases. 
SEC. 4006. Other security given. If other sufﬁcient surety is given,
it shall have the force of the original surety entered before the ﬁling of the
aﬂidavit, and shall discharge the original surety. 
SEC. 4006. Lien not released. Where a stay of execution has been
taken, such confessed judgment shall not release any judgment lien by vir
tue of the original judgment for the amount then due. 
SEC. 40i)7. Exemption of public property. Public buildings owned
by the state, or any county, city, school district or other municipal corpora
tion, or any other public property which is necessary and proper for carry
ing out the general purpose for which such corporation is organized, are
exempt from execution. The property of a private citizen can in no case be
levied on to pay the debt of any such. 

SEC. 4008. Other exemptions. If the debtor is a resident of this state
and the head of a family, he may hold exempt from execution the following
property: All wearing apparel of himself and family kept for actual use
and suitable to their condition, and the trunks or other receptacles neces
sary to contain the same; one musket or riﬂe and shot gun; all private
libraries, family bibles, portraits, pictures, musical instruments and paint
ings not kept for the purpose of sale; a seat or pew occupied by the debtor
or his family in any house of public worship; an interest in a public or
private burying-ground, not exceeding one acre for any defendant; two cows
and two calves; ﬁfty sheep and the wool therefrom and the materials manu
factured from such wool; six stands of bees; ﬁve hogs, and all pigs under
Six months; the necessary food for all animals exempt from execution, for
six months; one bedstead and the necessary bedding for every two in the
family; all cloth manufactured by the defendant, not exceeding one hundred
yards in quantity; household and kitchen furniture, not exceeding two hun
dred dollars in value; all spinning wheels and looms; one sewing machine
and other instruments of domestic labor kept for actual use; the neces
sary provisions and fuel for the use of the family for six months; the proper
tools, instruments or books of the debtor, if a farmer, mechanic, surveyor.
clergyman, lawyer, physician, teacher or professor; if the debtor is a
physician, public oﬁicer, farmer, teamster or other laborer, a team, consist
ing of not more than two horses or mules, or two yoke of cattle, and the
wagon or other vehicle, with the proper harness or tackle, by the use of
which he habitually earns his living, otherwise one horse; if a printer, a
printing press and the types, furniture and material necessary for the use
of such printing press and a newspaper oﬁice connected therewith, not to
exceed in all the value of twelve hundred dollars; poultry to the value of
ﬁfty dollars, and the same to any woman whether the head of a family or
not; and if the debtor is a seamstress, one sewing machine. 

SEC. 4009. Pension money. All money received by any person, a
resident of the state, as a. pension from the United States government,
whether the same shall be in the actual possession of such pensioner, or
deposited, loaned or invested by him, shall be exempt from execution, whether such pensioner shall be the head of a family or not.

SEC. 4010. Homestead bought with pension money. The home
stead of every such pensioner, whether the head of a family or not, pur
chased and paid for with any such pension money, or the proceeds or accu
mulations thereof, shall also be exempt; and such exemption shall apply to
debts of such pensioner contracted prior to the purchase of the homestead.

SEC. 40 1. Personal earnings. The earnings of a debtor who is a res
ident of the state and the head of a family for his personal services, or those
of his family, at any time within ninety days next preceding the levy, are
exempt from liability for debt.

SEC. 4012. The word “family,” as used in this chapter, does not include strangers or boarders lodging with the family.

SEC. 4013. Unmarried persons—nonresidents. There shall be
exempt to an unmarried person not the head of a family, and to nonresi
dents, their own ordinary wearing apparel and trunk necessary to contain
the same. 
SEC. 4014. Persons starting to leave the state. Where the debtor,
if the head of a. family, has started to leave this state, he shall have exempt
only the ordinary wearing apparel of himself and family, and such other
property, in addition, as he may select, in all not exceeding seventy-ﬁve
dollars in value; which property shall be selected by the debtor and
appraised according to the provisions of this code relating to the discharge
of attached property; but any person coming into this state with the inten
tion of remaining shall be considered a resident.


SEC. 4016. Purchase money. None of the exemptions prescribed in
this chapter shall be allowed against an execution issued for the
purchase
money of (property claimed to be exempt, and on which such execution is
levied. 
SEC. 4016. Absconding debtor.
When a debtor absconds and leaves
his family, such property as is exempt to him under this chapter shall be
exempt in the hands of his wife and children, or either of them.

SEC. 4017. Failure to claim exemption. Any person entitled to any
of the exemptions mentioned in this chapter does not waive his rights thereto
by failing to designate or select such exempt property, or by failing to
object to a levy thereon, unless he fails or neglects to do so when required
in writing by the oﬁicer about to levy thereon. 

SEC. 4018. Sending claims out of state to defeat exemption. Who
ever, whet-her as principal, agent or attorney, with intent to deprive a resi
dent in good faith of the state of the beneﬁt of the exemption laws thereof,
sends a claim against such resident and belonging to a resident, to another
state for action, or causes action to be brought on such claim in another
state, or assigns or transfers such claim to a nonresident of the state, with
intent that action thereon be brought in the courts of another state, the
action in either case being one which might have been brought in this state,
and the property or debt sought to be reached by such action being such as
might, but for the exemption laws of this state, have been reached by action
in the courts of this state, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished
by a ﬁne of not less than ten nor more than ﬁfty dollars. 

SEC. 4019. Debts owing for labor preferred. When the property of
any company, corporation, ﬁrm or person shall be seized upon by any pro
cess of any court, or placed in the hands of a receiver, trustee or assignee
for the purpose of paying or securing the payment of the debts of such
company, corporation, ﬁrm or person, the debts owing to employes for labor
performed within the ninety days next preceding the seizure or transfer of
such property, to an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars to each per
son, shall be a preferred debt and paid in full, or if there is not suﬁicient
realized from such property to pay the same in full, then, after the payment
of costs, ratably out of the fund remaining, but such preference shall be
junior and inferior to mechanics’ liens for labor in opening and developing
coal mines. 

SEC. 4020. Statement of c1a.im—a.1lowance. Any employe desiring
to enforce his claim for wages, at any time after seizure of the property
under execution or writ of attachment and before sale thereof is ordered,
shall present to the oﬁicer levying on such property or to such receiver,
trustee or assignee, or to the court having custody of such property or from
which such process issued, a statement under oath, showing the amount
due after allowing all just credits and set-offs, and the kind of work for
which such wages are due, and when performed; and unless objection be
made thereto as provided in the following section, such claim shall be
allowed and paid to the person entitled thereto, after ﬁrst paying all costs occa
sioned by the proceeding out of the proceeds of the sale of the property so
seized or placed in the hands of a receiver, trustee, or assignee, or court,
subject, however, to the provisions of the preceding section. 
SEC. 4021. Contest. Any person interested may contest any claim or
part thereof by ﬁling objections thereto, supported by aﬂidavit, with such
court, receiver, trustee or assignee, and its validity shall be determined in
the same way the validity of other claims are which are sought to be enforced
against such property. [Same]
SEC. 4022. Priority. Claims of employes for labor, if not contested,
or if allowed after contest, shall have priority over all claims against or
liens upon such property, except prior mechanics’ liens for labor in opening
or developing coal mines as allowed by law. [Same]
SEC. 4023. Notice of sale. The oﬁicer must give four weeks’ notice
of the time and place of selling real property, and three weeks’ notice of
personal property. [C. ’73, § 3079; R., § 3310; C. ’51, § 1905.]
SEC. 4024. By posting or pub1ica.tion—compensa.tion. Notice shall
be given by posting up in at least three public places of the county, one of
which shall be at the place where the last district court was held. In addi
tion to which, in case of the sale of real estate, or where personal property
to the amount of two hundred dollars or upwards is to be sold, there shall
be two weekly publications of such notice in some daily or weekly news
paper printed in the county, to be selected by the party causing the notice
to be given, and the compensation for such publication shall be the same as
is provided by law for legal notices. 

SEC. 4026. Notice to defend.a.nt—-sale set aside. If the debtor is in
actual occupation and possession of any part of the land levied on, the oﬂi
cer having the execution shall, at least twenty days previous to such sale,
serve him with written notice, stating that the execution is levied on said
land, and mentioning the time and place of sale; and sales made without the
notice required in this section may be set aside on motion made at the same
or the next term thereafter. 

SEC. 4026. Sales by constables. In constables' sales, the notice shall 
be posted for two weeks in three public places of the township of the justice, one of them at his oiﬁce door, without newspaper publication.

SEC. 4027. An oﬂicer selling
without the notice above prescribed shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the
defendant in execution, in addition to the actual damages sustained by either
party; but the validity of the sale is not thereby affected.

SEC. 4028. The sale must be at public auction,
between nine o'clock in the forenoon and four o’clock in the afternoon, and
the hour of the commencement of the sale must be ﬁxed in the notice.

SEC. 4029. Vhen there are no bidders, or
when the amount oﬁered is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the
sale is prevented from taking place on the day ﬁxed, or the parties so agree,
the oﬁicer may postpone the sale for not more than three days without being
required to give any further notice thereof, which postponement shall be
publicly announced at the time the sale was to have been made, but not
more than two such adjournments shall be made, except by agreement of
the parties in writing and made a part of the return upon the execution. 

SEC. 4030. Overplus. When the property sells for more than the
amount required to be collected, the overplus must be paid to the debtor,
unless the oﬁicer has another execution in his hands on which said overplus
may be rightfully applied, or unless there are liens upon the property which
ought to be paid therefrom, and the holders thereof make claim to such
surplus and demand application thereon, in which case the oﬂicer shall pay
the same into the hands of the clerk of the district court, and it shall be
applied as ordered by the court. 

SEC. 4031. If the property levied on sells for less than sufficient to satisfy the execution, the judgment holder may order
out another, which shall be credited with the amount of the previous sale.
The proceedings under the second execution shall conform to those herein
before prescribed.

SEC. 4032. Plan of division of land. At any time before nine o'clock
a. m. of the day
of the sale, the debtor may deliver to the oiﬁcer a plan of division of the land levied on, subscribed by him, and in that case the ofﬁcer
shall sell, according to said plan, so much of the land as may be necessary
to satisfy the debt and costs, and no more. If not such plan is furnished
the oﬂicer may sell without any division.

SEC. 4033. When purchaser fails to pay. When the purchaser fails
to pay the money when demanded, the judgment holder or his attorney may
elect to
proceed against him for the amount; otherwise the sheriff sh all treat
the sale as a nullity, and may sell the property on the same day, or after
postponement as above authorized.

SEC. 4034. Sales vacated. When any person ‘shall
purchase at a
Sheriffs sale any real estate on which the judgment upon which the execu
tion issued was not a lien at the time of the levy, and which fact was
unknown to the purchaser, the court shall set aside such sale on motion,
notice having been given to the debtor as in case of action, and a new execu
tion may be issued to enforce the judgment, and, upon the order being made
to set aside the sale, the sheriff or judgment creditor shall pay over to the
purchaser the purchase money; said motion may also be made by any person
interested in the real estate.
SEC. 4035. 'Money—things in action. Money levied upon may be
appropriated without being advertised or sold, and so may bank bills, drafts,
promissory notes, or other papers of the like character, if the plaintifff will
receive them at their par value as cash, or if the oﬁicer can exchange them
for cash at that value. 

SEC. 4036. Subjecting real estate of deceased judgment debtor.
When a judgment has been obtained against a decedent in his lifetime, the
plaintifff may ﬁle his petition in the oﬂice of the clerk of the court where the
judgment is rendered, against the executor, the heirs and devisees of real
estate, if such there be, setting forth the facts, and that there is real estate
of the deceased, describing its location and extent, and praying the court
to award execution against the same. 

SEC. 4037. Notice. The person against whom the petition is ﬁled shall
be notiﬁed by the plaintifff to appear on the ﬁrst day of the term and show
cause, if any he have, why execution should not be awarded. 
SEC. 4038. How served and returned. The notice must be served
and returned in the ordinary manner, and the same length of time shall be
allowed for appearance as in civil actions, and service of such notice on non
resident defendants may be had in such cases by publication. 
SEC. 4039. Execution awarded. At the proper time, the court shall
award the execution, unless suﬁicient cause is shown to the contrary, but
the non-age of the heirs or devisees shall not be held such sufﬁcient cause.
SEC. 4040. Mutual judgments-set oﬁ‘. Mutual judgments, execu
tions on which are in the hands of the same oﬁicer, may be set off the one
against the other, except the costs, but if the amount collected on the large
judgment is suﬁicient to pay the costs of both, such costs shall be paid there
from. 

SEC. 4041. Appraisement of personal property and leasehold inter
ests.
Personal property, and leasehold interests in real property having
less than two years of an unexpired term, levied upon and advertised for sale
on execution, must be appraised before sale by two disinterested householders
of the neighborhood, one of whom shall be chosen by the execution debtor
and the other by the plaintifff, or, in case of the absence of either party, or if
either or both parties neglect or refuse to make choice, the oﬁicer making
the levy shall choose one or both, as the case may be, who shall forthwith
return to said oﬁicer a just appraisement, under oath, of said property if
they can agree; if they cannot, they shall choose another disinterested house
holder, and with his assistance shall complete such appraisement, and the
property shall not, upon the ﬁrst offer, be sold for less than two-thirds of
said valuation; but if offered at the same place and hour of the day as adver
tised upon three successive days, and no bid is received equal to two-thirds.
of the app
raised value thereof, then it may be s'o1d for one-half of said val
uation. 

SEC. 4042. Property unso1d—1evy holds g-ood—additional levy-—
abandonment.
Subject to the provisions of the preceding section, when
property is unsold for want of bidders, the levy still holds good; and, if
there be suﬂicient time, it may again be advertised, or the execution returned
and one issued commanding the oﬁicer to sell the property, describing it,
previously levied on, to which a clause may be added that, if such property
does not produce a sum suﬂicient to satisfy such execution, the oﬁicer shall
proceed to make an additional levy, on which he shall proceed as on other
executions; or the plaintiﬁ may, in writing ﬁled with the clerk or justice,
abandon such levy, upon paying the costs thereof; in which case execution
may issue with the same eﬁect as if none had ever been issued. 

SEC. 4043. When sale absolute. When real property has been levied
upon, if the estate is less than a leasehold having two years of an unexpired
term, the sale is absolute, but if of a larger amount, it is redeemable as
hereinafter prescribed. [C.'73, § 3098-9; R., § 3329-30; C.’51, § 1924.]
SEC. 4044. Deed or certiﬁcate. If the property sold is not subject to
redemption, the sheriff must execute a deed therefore to the purchaser; but
if subject to redemption, a certiﬁcate, containing a description of the property
and the amount of money paid by such purchaser, and stating that, unles-<
redemption is made within one year thereafter, according to law, he or his
heirs or assigns will be entitled to a deed for the same. 

SEC. 4045. Redemption—by debtor—appea1 or stay. The debtor
may redeem real property at any time within one year from the day of sale,
and will, in the meantime, be entitled to the possession thereof; and for the
ﬁrst six months thereafter such right of redemption is exclusive; but no
party who has taken an appeal from the superior or district court, or stayed
execution on the judgment, shall be entitled to redeem.

SEC. 4046. By creditors. If no redemption is made by the debtor as
above provided, thereafter, and at any time within nine months from the
day of sale, said redemption may be made by a mortgagee before or after
the debt secured by the mortgage falls due, or by any creditor whose claim
becomes a lien prior to the expiration of the time allowed for such redemp
tion; but a mechanic’s lien before judgment thereon is not of such character
as to entitle the holder to redeem. The owner of a claim which has been
allowed and established against the estate of a decedent may redeem as in
this chapter provided, by making application to the district court or any
judge of the district where the real estate to be redeemed is situated. Such
application shall be heard after notice to such parties as said court or judge
may direct, and shall be determined with due regard to rights of all persons
interested. 

SEC. 4047. By creditors from each other. Creditors having the
right of redemption may redeem from each other within the time above lim
ited, and in the manner herein provided. 
SEC. 4048. Senior creditor. When a senior creditor thus redeems
from his junior, he is required to pay off only the amount of those liens
which are paramount to his own, with the interest and costs appertaining
to those liens. [C. ’73, 3' 3107; R., § 3337; C.’51, § 1931.]
SEC. 4049. Junior may prevent. The junior creditor may in all such
cases prevent a redemption by the holder of the paramount lien by paying
off the lien, or by leaving with the clerk beforehand the amount necessary
therefore, and a junior judgment creditor may redeem from a senior judgment
creditor. [C. ’73, § 3108-9; R., § 3338-9; C.’51, § 1932.]
SEC. 4050. Terms. The terms of redemption, when made by a cred
itor, in all cases shall be the reimbursement of the amount bid or paid by
the holder of the certiﬁcate, including all costs, with interest the same as
the lien redeemed from bears on the amount of such bid or payment, from
the time thereof, but where a mortgagee whose claim is not yet due is the
person from Whom the redemption is thus to be made, he shall receive on
such mortgage only the amount of the principal thereby secured, with unpaid
interest thereon to the time of such redemption.

SEC. 4051. The terms of redemption, when made by the title holder, shall be the 
payment into the clerk’s ofﬁce of the amount of the certificate, and all sums
paid by the holder thereof in eifecting
redemptions, added to the amount of his own lien, or the amount he has
credited thereon, if less than the whole, with interest at contract rate on
the certiﬁcate of sale from its date, and upon sums so paid by way of
redemption from date of payment, and upon the amount credited on his own
judgment from the time of said credit, in each case including costs. 

SEC. 4062. By junior from senior creditor. When a senior redeems
from a junior creditor, the latter may, in return, redeem from the former,
and so on, as often as the land is taken from him by virtue of a paramount
lien.
SEC. 4053. After nine months. After the expiration of nine months
from the day of sale, the creditors can no longer redeem from each other.
except as hereinafter provided. 

SEC. 4054. Who gets property. Unless the defendant redeems, the
purchaser, or the creditor who has last redeemed prior to the expiration of
the nine months aforesaid, will hold the property absolutely. 
SEC. 4055. Claim extinguished. In case it is thus held by a redeeming
creditor, his lien, and the claim out of which it arose, will be held to be
extinguished, unless he pursues the course pointed out in the next section.

SEC. 4056. Credit on judgment. The mode of redemption by a lien
holder shall be by paying into the clerks oﬁice the amount necessary to
effect the same, computed as above provided, and ﬁling therein his afﬁdavit,
or that of his agent or attorney, stating as nearly as practicable the nature
of his lien and the amount still due and unpaid thereon. If he is unwilling
to hold the property and credit the debtor thereon the full amount of his lien,
he must state the utmost amount he is willing to credit him with. If the amount
paid to the clerk is in excess of the prior bid and liens, he shall refund the
excess to the party paying the same, and enter each such redemption made
by a. lien-holder upon the sale book, and credit upon the lien, if a judgment
in the court of which h.e is clerk, the full amount thereof, including interest
and costs, or such less amount as the lien-holder is willing to credit therein,
as shown by the aﬁidavit ﬁled. 

SEC. 4057. Contest determined. In case any question arises as to the
right to redeem, or the amount of any lien, the person claiming such right
may deposit the necessary amount therefore with the clerk, accompanied with
the aﬂidavit above required, and also stating therein the nature of such ques
tion or objection, which question or objection shall be submitted to the court
or a judge thereof as soon as practicable thereafter, upon such notice as it
or he shall prescribe of the time and place of the hearing of the controversy,
at which time and place the matter shall be tried upon such evidence and in
such manner as may be prescribed, and the proper order made and entered
of record in the cause in which execution issued, and the money so paid in
shall be held by the clerk subject to the order made.
SEC. 4058. Assignment of certiﬁcate. A creditor redeeming as above
contemplated is entitled to receive an assignment of the certiﬁcate issued
by the sheriff to the original purchaser as hereinbefore directed. 
SEC. 4059. Redemption of portion of property. When the property
has been sold in arcels, any distinct portion may be redeemed by itself.

SEC. 4060. Interest of tenant in common. When the interests of
several tenants in common have been sold on execution, the undivided por
tion of any or either of them may be redeemed separately. 
SEC. 4061. Transfer of debtor’s rig-ht. The rights of a debtor in re
lation to redemption are transferable, and the assignee has the like power
to redeem. 

SEC. 4062. Deed. If the debtor or his assignee fails to redee1n,i11@
sheriff then in oﬂice must, at the end of the year, execute a deed to the pet'
son who is entitled to the certiﬁcate as hereinbefore provided, or to 111$
assignee. If the
person entitled is dead, the deed shall be made to his heirs.

SEC. 4063. Recording. The purchaser of real estate at a sale on exe—
cution need not place any evidence of his purchase upon record until sixty
days after the expiration of the full time of redemption. Up to that time
the publicity of the proceedings is constructive notice of the rights of the
purchaser.

SEC. 4064. Deeds executed by a sheriff i.n pursuance
of the sales contemplated in this chapter are presumptive evidence of the
regularity of all previous proceedings in the case, and may
be
given in
evidence without preliminary proof. 

SEC. 4065. Damages for injury to property. When real estate has
been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who has
succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover
damages for any injury to the property committed after the sale and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance. 

SEC. 4066. Proceedings in justices’ courts. The provisions of this chapter are intended to embrace proceedings in justices’ courts, so far as
they are applicable; and the terms “ sheriﬂ ” and “clerk ” are to be under
stood as qualiﬁed in this cha ter in the same manner in this respect as in
that relative to attachment. EC. ’73, § 3129; R., § 3359; C. '51, § 1952.]
SEC. 4067. Death of ho der of judgment. The death of any or all
of the joint owners of a judgment shall not prevent an execution being
issued thereon, but on any such execution the clerk shall indorse the fact
of the death of such of them as are dead, and if all are dead, the names of
their personal representatives, if the judgment passed to the personal rep
resentatives, or the names of the heirs of such deceased person, if the
judgment was for real property. 

SEC. 4068. 0ﬁlcer’s duty. In acting upon an execution, so indorsed,
the sheriff shall proceed as if the surviving owners, or the personal repre
sentatives or heirs as above provided, were the only owners of the judg
Iéiené. upon which it was issued, and take bonds accordingly. [(3. ’73, § 3131;
., 3483.]
SEC. 4069. Aﬁdavit required. Before making the indorsements as
above provided, an aﬁidavit shall be ﬁled with the clerk by one of the owners of
such judgment, or one of such personal representatives or heirs, or their
attorney, of the death of such owners as are dead, and that the persons
named as such are the personal representatives or heirs, and in the case of
personal representatives they shall ﬁle with the clerk a certiﬁcate of their
qualiﬁcation, unless their appointment is by the court from which the exe
cution issues, in which case the record of such appointment shall be suffi
cient evidence of the fact. [C. ’73, § 3132; R., § 3484.]
SEC. 4070. Execution quashed. Any debtor in such a. judgment
may move the court or judge to quash an execution on the ground that the
personal representatives or heirs of a deceased judgment creditor are not
properly stated in the indorsement on the execution, and during the vaca
tion of the court may obtain an injunction, upon satisfactory showing that
the persons named as such are not entitled to the judgment on which the
execution was issued. [C.’73, § 3134; R., § 3486.]
SEC. 4071. Death of part of defendants. The death of part of the
joint debtors in a judgment shall not prevent execution being issued
thereon, but, when issued, it shall operate alone on the survivors and their
property. 

SEC. 4072. Debtor examined. When execution against the prop
erty of a judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment,
has been issued from the superior, district or supreme court to the sheriff
of the county where such debtor resides, or if he do not reside in the state,
to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was rendered, or a tran
script of a justice ’s judgment has been ﬁled, and execution issued thereon
is returned unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, the owner of the judgment is
entitled to an order for the appearance and examination of such debtor.

SEC. 4073. Upon aﬂidavit as to property. The like order may be
obtained at any
time after the issuing of an execution, upon proof, by the
affidavit of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court or judge
who is to grant the same, that any judgment debtor has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment. 

SEC. 4074. By whom order granted. Such order may be made by
the superior or district court in which the judgment was rendered, or by the_
district court of the county to which execution has been issued, or in vana
tion by a judge thereof. And the debtor may be required to appear and
answer before either of such courts or judges, or before a referee a-ppointed
for that purpose by the court or judge who issued the order, to report either
the evidence or the facts. [C. ’73, § 3137; R., § 3377, 3385; C. ’51, § 1955.]
SEC. 4076. Debtor interrogated. The debtor, on his appearance, may
be interrogated in relation to any facts calculated to show the amount of his
property, or the disposition which has been made of it, or any other matter
pertaining to the purpose for which the examination is permitted to be
made. The interrogatories and answers shall be reduced to writing and
preserved by the court or oﬁicer before whom they are taken. All exami
nations and answers under this chapter shall be on oath, and no person
shall, on such examination, be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his examination will tend to convict him of a fraud, but his
answers shall not be used as evidence against him in a prosecution for such
fraud. 

SEC. 4076. Witnesses examined. Witnesses may be required by
order of the court or judge, or by subpoenas from the referee, to appear
and testify upon any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue.
SEC. 4077. Disposition of property. If any property, rights or
credits subject to execution are thus ascertained, an execution may be issued
and the same levied upon. The court or judge may order any property of the
judgment debtor not exempt, in the hands of himself or others, or due him, to
be delivered up, or in any other mode applied towards the satisfaction of the
judgment. 
SEC. 4078. Receiver. The court or judge may also, by order, appoint
the sheriﬁ of the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, or by injunction forbid a transfer or other
disposition of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, or
any interference therewith. [C.’73, § 3141; R., § 3381.]
SEC. 4079. Equitable interest. If it shall appear that the judgment
debtor has any equitable interest in real estate in the county in which pro
ceedings are had, as mortgagor, mortgagee or otherwise, and the interest
of said debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the person holding
the legal estate or having any lien on or interest in the same, without contro
versy as to the interest of such person, the receiver may be ordered to sell
and convey the same, or the debtor ’s equitable interest therein, in the same
manner as is provided for the sale of real estate upon execution. 
SEC. 4080. Sheriff as receiver. If the sheriﬁ is appointed receiver,
he and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the faithful dis
charge of his duties as such. 

SEC. 4081. Continuance. The court, judge or referee acting under
the provisions of this chapter shall have power to continue his proceedings
from time to time until they shall be completed. [C. ’73, § 3144; R., § 3384.]
SEC. 4082. Debtor failing to appear—contempt. Should the judg
ment debtor fail to appear after being personally served with notice to that
effect, or should he fail to make full answers to all proper interrogatories
propounded to him, he will be guilty of contempt, and may be arrested and
imprisoned until he complies with the requirements of the law in this respect.
And if any person, party or witness disobey an order of the court, judge or
referee, duly served, such person, party or witness may be punished as for
contempt. 

SEC. 4083. Service of order. The order mentioned herein shall be in
writing and signed by the court, judge or referee making the same, and be
served in the same manner as an original notice in other cases. 

SEC. 4084. Compensation of oﬁcers and witnesses. Sheriffs, ref
erees, receivcrs and witnesses shall receive such compensation as is allowed
for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and the col
lection thereof from such party or parties as ought to pay the same shall be
enforced by an order or execution. 

SEC. 4085. Warrant of arrest. Upon proof, to the satisfaction of the
court or judge authorized to grant the order aforesaid, that there is danger
that the defendant will leave the state, or that he will conceal himself, such
court or judge, instead of the order, may issue a. Warrant for the arrest of the
debtor, and for bringing him forthwith before the court or judge, upon which
being done, he may be examined in the same manner and with the like effect
as is above provided. 

SEC. 4086. Bond. Upon being brought before the court or judge, he
may enter into an undertaking in such sum as the court or oiﬁcer shall pre
scribe, with one or more sureties, that he will attend from time to time for
examination before the court or judge as shall be directed, and will not, in
the meantime, dispose of his property, or any part thereof; in default whereof
he shall continue under arrest, and may be committed to jail for safe keep
ing until the examination shall be concluded. [C.’73, § 3149; R., § 3390.]
SEC. 4087. Equitable proceedings. At any time after the rendition of a.
judgment, an action by equitable proceedings may be brought to subject any
property, money, rights, credits or interest therein belonging to the
defendant to the satisfaction of such judgment. In such action, persons
indebted to the judgment debtor, or holding any property or money in which
such debtor has any interest, or the evidences of securities for the same,
may be made defendants. 

SEC. 4088. Answers verified--petition taken as true. The answers of all defendants shall be verified by their own oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the court shall enforce full and explicit discoveries
in such answers by process of contempt; or, upon failure to answer the
petition, or any part thereof, as fully and explicitly as the court may
require, the same, or such part not thus answered, shall be deemed true,
and such order made or judgment rendered as the nature of the case may
require. 

SEC. 4089. Lien created. In the case contemplated in the two pre
ceding sections, alien shall be created on the property of the judgment
debtor, or his interest therein, in the hands of any defendant or under his
control, which is suﬁiciently described in the petition, from the time of the
service of notice and copy of the petition on the defendant holding or con
trolling such property or any interest therein. 

SEC. 4090. Surrender of’ property enforced. The court shall enforce
the surrender of the money or securities therefore, or of any other property
of the defendant in the execution, which may be discovered in the action,
and for this purpose may commit to jail any defendant or garnishee failing
or refusing to make such surrender until it shall be done, or the court is
satisﬁed that it is out of his power to do so. 

SEC. 4091. Judgment vacated or modiﬁed—grounds. Where a
ﬁnal judgment or order has been rendered or made, the district court, in
addition to causes for a new trial hereinbefore authorized, may, after the
term at which the same was rendered or made, vacate or modify the same or
grant a new trial:
1. For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in
obtaining the same;
2. For fraud practiced in obtaining the same;
3. For erroneous proceedings against a minor or person of unsound
mind, when such errors or condition of mind do not appear in the record;
4. For the death of one of the parties before the rendition of the judg
ment or making of the order, if no substitute has been made of the proper
representative before the rendition of the judgment or order; _
5. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing the party from
prosecuting or defending;
6. For error in the judgment or order shown by a minor within twelve
months after arriving at majority.

SEC. 4092. New trial after term. Where the grounds for a new trial
could not with reasonable diligence have been discovered before, but are
discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee or decision
was rendered or made, the application may be made by petition ﬁled, on
which notice shall be served upon the successful party and returned, and
he be held to appear, as in an original action. The facts stated in the
petition shall be considered as denied without answer, and tried by the court
as other actions by ordinary proceedings, but no such petition shall be ﬁled
afterone year from the rendition of ﬁnal judgment. 

SEC. 4093. Motion to correct mistake or irregularity. Proceed
ings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtain
ing judgment or order, shall be by motion served on the adverse party or
his attorney, and within one year; if made to vacate a judgment or order
because of irregularity in obtaining it, such motion must be made on or
before the second day of the succeeding term. 
SEC. 4094. Petition. The application based upon the other grounds
shall be by veriﬁed petition setting forth the judgment or order, the alleged
facts or errors constituting a cause to vacate or modify it, and the matters
constituting a defense to the action, if the party applying was a defendant.
Such proceedings must be commenced within one year after the judgment
or order was made, unless the party entitled thereto is a minor or person of
unsound mind, and then within one year after the removal of such disability.

SEC. 4095. Proceedings. In such proceedings the party shall be
brought into court in the same way, on the same notice as to time, mode of
service and return, and the pleadings, issues and form and manner of trial
shall be governed by the same rules and conducted in the same manner, as
nearly as may be, and with the same right of appeal, as in ordinary actions.
No new cause of action or defense shall be introduced, and the matter stated
in the petition shall be taken as denied without answer, an dthe isue shall
be tried by the court

SEC. 4096. Valid defense. The judgment shall not be vacated on motion
or petition until it is adjudged there is a cause of action or defense to the
action in which the judgment is rendered; if a judgment is modiﬁed, all
liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modiﬁed
judgment.

SEC. 4097. Grounds to vacate ﬁrst tried. The court may ﬁrst try
and decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a. judgment or order,
before trying or deciding upon the validity of the cause of action or defense.

SEC. 4098. Injunction. The party seeking to vacate or modify a
judgment or order may have an injunction suspending proceedings on the
whole or part thereof, which shall be granted by the court or a judge
thereof upon its being rendered probable, by aﬂidavit or veriﬁed petition,
or by exhibition of the record. that the party is entitled to the relief asked.
SEC. 4099. Judgment aﬁrmed. If the judgment or order is aﬁirmed
and the proceedings have been suspended, an additional judgment shall be
rendered against the plaintifff in error for the amount of the costs, together
with damages at the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten per cent. on
the amount of the judgment aﬁirmed. 

sEC. 4100. Appellatejurisdiction over judgments. The supreme
court has appellate jurisdiction over all judgments and decisions of all
courts of record, except as otherwise provided by law. 

SEC. 4101. An appeal may also be taken to the supreme court from:
1. An order made affecting a substantial right in an action, when such
order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a judgment from which
an appeal might be taken;
2. A ﬁnal order made in special
actions affecting a substantial right
therein, or ma-de on a summary application in an action after judgment;
3. An order which grants or refuses, continues or modiﬁes, a provisional
remedy; grants or refuses, dissolves or refuses to dissolve, an injunction or
attachment, or grants or refuses a new trial, or sustains or overrules a
demurrer;
4. An intermediate order involving the merits or materially affecting
the ﬁnal decision;
5. An order or judgment on habeas corpus.

SEC. 4102. If any of the above orders or judgments are made or rendered by 
a judge, the same are reviewable the same as if made by a court.
SEC. 4103. Other intermediate appeals. Such court, in its discretion,
may also prescribe rules for allowing appeals on such other intermediate
orders or decisions as are expedient, and for permitting such appeals to be
taken and tried during the pendency of the action in the court below; but
such an intermediate appeal shall not retard

proceedings in the court from which the appeal is taken.
SEC. 4104. Mistake Of clerk below. Amistake of the clerk shall 110t
be ground for an appeal until the same has been presented to and acted
upon by the court below.

SEC. 4105. Motion to correct error. A judgment or order shall not be reversed for na error which can be corrected on motion in an inferior court, until such motion has been there made and overruled. 

SEC. 4106. Motion for new trial. The supreme court on appeal
may review and reverse any judgment or order of the superior or district
court, although no motion for a new trial was made in such court.

SEC. 4107. Finding of facts —evidence certiﬁed. Where a cause is
tried by the court, it shall not be necessary, in order to secure a review of the
same in the supreme court, that there should have been any ﬁnding of facts
or conclusions of law stated in the record, but the supreme court shall hear
and determine the same when it appears from a certiﬁcate of the judge,
agreement of parties or their attorneys, or, if the record shows the evidence
to consist wholly of written testimony, then from the certiﬁcate of the short
hand reporter or clerk that the record contains all the evidence introduced
by the parties in the trial in the court below.

SEC. 4108. The cause on appeal shall be docketed as
it was in the court below, and the party taking the appeal shall be called
the appellant, and the other party the appellee. 

SEC. 4109. Process. The court may issue all writs and processes necessary for th eexercise and enforcement of its appellate jurisdiction.

SEC. 4110. Time for appea1ing—a.mount in controversy—certiﬁ
cate. Appeals from the superior and district courts may be taken to the
supreme court at any time within six months from the rendition of the judg
ment or order appealed from, and not afterward. No appeal shall be taken
in any cause in which the amount in controversy between the parties, as
shown by the pleadings, does not exceed one hundred dollars, unless the
trial judge shall, during the term in which judgment is entered, certify
that the cause is one in which the appeal should be allowed, and, upon such
certiﬁcate being ﬁled, the same shall be appealable regardless of the amount
in controversy; but this limitation shall not affect the right of appeal in any
action in which an interest in real estate is involved, nor shall the right of
appeal be affected by the remission of any
part of the verdict or judgment
returned or rendered.

SEC. 4111. A part of several co-parties may appeal; but in such case they must serve notice of the appeal upon those not joining therein, and file proof thereof with the clerk of the supreme court.

SEC. 4112. Co-parties, refusing to join in an appeal, cannot afterwards appeal, or derive any 
beneﬁt therefrom, unless
from the necessity of the case, but they shall be held to have joined, and
be liable for their proportion of the costs, unless they appear and object
thereto. 

SEC. 4113. An appeal from part of an
order, or from one of the judgments of a ﬁnal adjudication, or from part of
a judgment, shall not disturb, delay or affect the rights of any party to any
judgment or order, or part of a judgment or order, not appealed from. 
SEC. 4114. Notice. An appeal is taken and perfected by the service of
a notice in writing on the adverse party, his agent, or any attorney who
appeared for him in the case in the court below, and also upon the clerk oi
the court wherein the proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the
same, or from some speciﬁc part thereof, deﬁning such part.

SEC. 4115. Service. notice of appeal shall be served and return
made thereon in the same manner as an original notice in a civil action,
and ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the court in which the judgment or
order appealed from was rendered or made. All other notices connected
with or growing out of the appeal shall be served and the return made in
like manner, and ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the supreme court, and all
notices provided for in this section become a part of the record in the case
on being ﬁled. 

SEC. 4116. Term for submission. A notice of appeal must be served
thirty, and the cause ﬁled and docketed ﬁfteen days before the ﬁrst day
of the next term of the supreme court, or the same shall not be submitted
at that term unless the parties consent thereto. If the appeal is taken less
than thirty days before the term, it must be so ﬁled and docketed for the
next succeeding term. 

SEC. 4117. Docketing causes. The clerk shall docket the causes as
they are ﬁled in his oﬂice, and shall arrange and set a proper number for
trial for each day of the term, placing together those from the same judicial
district, and cause notice thereof to be published and distributed as the court
may direct. 

SEC. 4118. Abstracts.
Printed abstracts of the record shall be ﬁled in
accordance with rules established by the supreme court, and shall be pre
sumed to contain the record, unless denied or corrected by subsequent
abstract. If any denial or abstract is ﬁled without good and sufficient cause,
the costs of the same or any part thereof, and of any transcript thereby
made necessary, shall be taxed to the party causing the same.

SEC. 4119. Trial term. The clerk of the supreme court shall docket
causes in which the appellant’s abstract has been ﬁled ﬁfteen days before
the ﬁrst day of the next term of the supreme court; if the abstract is ﬁled
thereafter, it shall be docketed‘for the next succeeding term. N0 cause
shall be tried which has not been docketed as above provided, nor unless
the notice of appeal has been served thirty days or more before the ﬁrst
day of said term, except by consent of parties.
SEC. 4120. Dismissal or aﬁrmance. If an abstract of the record is
not ﬁled by appellant thirty days before the second term after the appeal
was taken, unless further time is given by the court or a. judge thereof for
cause shown, the appellee may ﬁle an abstract of such matters of record as
are necessary, or may ﬁle a copy of the ﬁnal judgment or order appealed
from, or other matters required, certiﬁed to by the clerk of the trial court,
and cause the case to be docketed, and the appeal upon motion shall be dis
missed, or the judgment or order aﬂirmed. Denial of abstracts, additional
abstracts or transcripts may also be ﬁled.

SEC. 4121. Fees prepaid. No case shall be docketed until the fees
provided by law therefore have been
paid.
SEC. 4122. '1‘ranscript—when required. No certiﬁcation of the rec
ord shall be required, unless ordered by the supreme court or a judge
thereof, which order must be made upon an application in writing or by
motion, designating the matters and things of record desired to be included
therein and showing the necessity therefore. The order, if granted, shall
contain Similar designations, and show the parts to be given by an abstract
of the original record, and the portions to be by transcript, and may require
any or all the matters to be presented by an amended abstract, and be trans
mitted by the clerk of the supreme court to the clerk of the lower court.
The appellant, upon notice or copy of tne order being received by him, shall
promptly pay or secure to the c1erk’s satisfaction his fees and expenses for
preparing and forwarding such record, and, upon failure so todo, the appeal,
upon motion, may be dismissed or the judgment affirmed, as the appellee
may elect. The translation of the original notes of the shorthand reporter,
certiﬁed by him to be true and correct, shall constitute a part of the record,
and shall be sent up in its original form in lieu of a transcript thereof when
a transcript of the evidence is required, and shall be returned to the clerk
of the court of the proper county after the cause has been determined by
the su reme court. 

SEC. 4123. What sent up. When certiﬁcation of the record is required,
the designated papers, notices, shorthand reporter’s translation of his
report, depositions, exhibits identiﬁed as evidence, notices of appeal with
return or acceptance of service thereon, and any other paper ﬁled in the
case, or any part thereof, may be transmitted to the supreme court in the
original form, or by a transcript of the same, but all entries of record must
be by transcript.
The clerk of the trial court shall verify
his return,
whether it be of the record or transcription thereof, by his certiﬁcate, under
seal, distinguishing between originals and transcripts, and such certiﬁca
tion so made shall constitute a part of the record in the supreme court.

SEC. 4124. Where a view of an original paper or exhibit in the action may be important to a correct decision of the appeal, the court may order the clerk of the court below to transmit the same, which he shall do in the manner provided for the transmission of certifications of the record.

SEC. 4125. The transcript of any paper or exhibit
required for use in the supreme court may be transmitted thereto by the
clerk of the trial court by express or other safe and s eedy method,
by a. party or any attorney of a party.

SEC. 4126. Return of original papers.
If a new trial is granted by
the supreme court, the clerk, as soon as the cause is at an end therein, shrill
transmit to the clerk of the court below all original papers or exhibits cer
tiﬁed up from said court, and may at any time return any such papers when
no new trial is awarded.
SEC. 4127. Perfecting record. The lower court, the supreme court
or a judge of either court, may make any necessary orders to secure a pol“
fcct record or transcript thereof, upon a showing by aﬁidavit or otherwise,
and upon such notice as it or he may prescribe. 

SEC. 4128. No proceedings under a judgment or order, nor any part thereof, shall be stayed by an
appeal, unless the appellant executes a bond with one or more sureties, to
be ﬁled with and approved by the clerk of the court in which the judgment
or order was rendered or made, to the eﬁect that he will pay to the appellee
all costs and damages that shall be adjudged against him on the appeal;
and will satisfy and perform the judgment or order appealed from in case
it sha-ll be aﬁirmed, and any judgment or order which the supreme court
may render, or order to be rendered by the inferior court, not exceeding in
amount 01' value the original judgment or order, and all rents of or dam
ages to property during the pendency of the appeal out of the possession
of which the appellee is kept by reason of the appeal. If the bond is
intended to stay proceedings on only a. part of the judgment or order, it
shall be varied so as to secure the part stayed alone. When thus ﬁled and
approved, the clerk shall issue a written order requiring the appellec and
all others to stay all proceedings under such judgment or order, or so much
thereof as is superseded thereby, but no appeal or stay shall vacate or
aﬁect such judgment or order.

SEC. 4129. Partial stay. The taking of the appeal from part of a
judgment or order, and the ﬁling of a bond as above directed, does not stay
execution as to that part of the judgment or order not appealed from.
SEC. 4130. Execution recalled.


If execution has issued prior to the
ﬁling of the bond, the clerk shall countermand the same.
SEC. 4131. Property surrendered. Property levied upon and not
sold at the time such countermand is received by
the sheriff shall be at once

delivered to the judgment debtor.
It seems that this section refers only to personal property: Sunﬂ v. Oonboy, 12-444.
SEC. 4132. Conditions of bond-how ﬂxed. If a party has perfected
his appeal, and the clerk of the lower court refuses for any reason to

approve the bond, or requires an excessive penalty, or unjust or improper
conditions, he may apply to the district court or judge thereof, who shall
ﬁx the amount and conditions of the bond and approve the same. Pending
the application, the judge may, by a written order, recall and stay all pro
ceedings under the order or judgment appealed from until the decision of
the application. The bond thus approved shall be ﬁled with the clerk, who
shall issue a written order to stay proceedings. [C.'T3, § 3187.]
SEC. 4133. Insuﬂlcient security—new bond. The appellee may
move the court rendering the judgment or making the order appealed from,
or the supreme court, or a judge of either court, if in vacation, upon ten
days‘ notice in writing to appellant, to discharge the bond on account of
defect in substance or insuﬁiciency in security, which mo‘ Ion if well taken,
shall be sustained, unless appellant shall, within a day to be ﬁxed in the
order made and ﬁled therein, give a new and suﬂicient bond as required by
said order. If the new bond is not given, proceedings shall be had in the
lower court as though no bond had been given, but a new and suﬁicient
bond may be given at any time with like effect and results as though given
in the ﬁrst instance. [C. ’73, § 3188-9; R., § 3529-30.]
SEC. 4134. Penalty of bond. If the judgment or order is for the pay
ment of money, the penalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the
judgment and costs. If not for the payment of money, the condition shall
be to save the appellee harmless from the consequences of taking the
appeal, but in no case shall the penalty be less than one hundred dollars.

SEC. 4135. Security for costs. The appellant may be required to give
security for costs under the same circumstances and upon the same show
ing as plaintifffs in civil actions in the inferior court may be. [C.’73, § 3210;
R., §3526.
SEC. 41 6. Assignment of errors. Except in actions triable de nova,
no question shall be considered by the supreme court unless pointed out by
an assignment of error, which need follow no stated form, but must clearly
and speciﬁcally indicate the very error complained of, and, among several
points made in demurrer, motion, instructions or rulings, the one, or those
relied upon, must be separately stated. The court need consider only such
errrors as are thus assigned, but must decide upon each one that is.

SEC. 4137. Failure to assign errors. If errors are not assigned and
ﬁled, and a copy thereof served on the appellee or his attorney
ten days
before the ﬁrst day of the trial term, unless good cause for the failure be
shown, the appellee may have the appeal dismissed or the judgment or
order aﬁirmed.

SEC. 4138. All motions must be in writing and entered
upon the motion book, and be heard upon such notice and argument, if any,
as the court by rule may prescribe, but no motion shall be submitted without
publicly callcd by the court, unless the parties otherwise agree.

SEC. 4139. Arguments-submission-decision.
The parties to an
appeal may be heard orally and in writing, subject to such rules as the court
may prescribe; and all causes docketed, not continued by consent or upon
cause shown, shall be submitted in the order assigned, unless otherwise
directed by the court or the judges thereof. The court may reverse, modify
or aﬂirm the judgment, decree or order appealed from, or render such as
the inferior court should have done. No cause is decided until the written
decision is ﬁled with the clerk.

SEC. 4140. Judgment against sureties on stay bond. The supreme
court, if it aﬂirms the judgment, shall also, if the appellee asks or moves
therefore, render judgment against the appellant and his sureties on the
appeal bond for the amount of the judgment, damages and costs referred to
therein in case such damag
es can be accurately known to the court without
an issue and trial. 

SEC. 4141. Damages for delay. Upon the aﬁirmance of any judgment
or order for the payment of money, the collection of which in whole or part
has been stayed by an appeal bond, the court may award to the appellee
damages upon the amount so stayed; and, if satisﬁed by the record that the
appeal was taken for delay only, may award as damages a sum not exceed
ing ﬁfteen per cent. thereon. 

SEC. 4142. Costs taxed. The supreme court must provide by rule for
as costs all printing authorized upon the trial of appeals.
The court
translation of the shorthand notes ﬁled as
taxing
shall also tax the costs of any
provided in this chapter.

SEC. 4143. If the supreme court aﬂirms the judg
ment or order, it may send the cause to the court below to have the same
carried into eﬁect, or may issue the necessary process for this purpose,
directed to the sheriﬁ of the roper county, as the party may require.

SEC. 4144. Decision certiﬁed. If remanded to the inferior court to
be carried into eifect, such decision and the order of the court thereon,
being certiﬁed thereto and entered on the records thereof, shall have the
same force and effect as if made and entered during the session of that court.

SEC. 4145. Restitution of property. If, by the decision of the supreme
court, the appellant becomes entitled to a restoration of any part of the
money or property that was taken from him by means of such judgment or
order, either the supreme court or the court below may direct execution or
writ of restitution to issue for the purpose of restoring to him such property
or its value.

SEC. 4146. Title not aﬁected. Property acquired by a purchaser in
good faith under a judgment subsequently reversed shall not be aifected
thereby. 

SEC. 4147. Mandates enforced. The supreme court may enforce its 
mandates upon inferior courts and ofﬁcers by ﬁne and imprisonment, which
imprisonment may be continued until obeyed.

SEC. 4148. Petition for rehearing. If a petition for rehearing is
ﬁled, it shall suspend the decision, if the court or one of the judges upon
its presentation so order, until after the ﬁnal decision on the rehearing.

SEC. 4149. Written notice of intention to peti
tion for a rehearing shall be served on the opposite party or his attorney
and the clerk of the supreme court within thirty days after the ﬁling of the
opinion, or within such time as the court may by rule prescribe. Such
petition shall be printed and, with proof of service thereof on the opposite
party or his attorney, shall be ﬁled with said clerk within sixty days after
the opinion is ﬁled, and may be made the argument or a brief of authorities
relied upon for a rehearing. The adverse part-y may ﬁle a printed argu
ment in response. If the party applying for a rehearing shall give notice
of oral argument in his petition, then both parties shall be entitled to be
heard orally, unless the party giving notice waives oral argument. 

SEC. 4150. Death of party—continua.nce. The death of one or all
of the parties shall not cause the proceedings to abate, but the names of
the proper persons shall be substituted, as is provided in such cases in the
district court, and the case may proceed. The court may also, in such case,
grant a continuance when such a course will be calculated to promote the
ends of justice.

SEC. 4161. Dismissal of appeal. Where appellant has no right, or
no further right, to prosecute the appeal, the appellee may move to dismiss
it, and if the grounds of the motion do not appe
ar in the record, or by a
writing purporting to have been signed by the appellant and ﬁled, they
must be veriﬁed by affidavit. 

SEC. 4162. Proceedings on motion to dismiss. The appellee may, by
answer or abstract ﬁled and veriﬁed by himself, agent or attorney, plead
any facts which render the taking of the appeal improper or destroy the
appe1lant’s right of further prosecuting the same, to which the appellant
may ﬁle a reply or abstract likewise veriﬁed by himself, his agent or attorney,
and the question of law or fact therein shall be determined by the court,
lﬁpog such evidence and in such form as it may prescribe. 
SEC. 41 3. Executions. Executions issued from the supreme court
shall be like those from the district court, attended with the same conse
quences, and returnable in the same time. 

SEC. 4154. When writ may issue. The writ of certiorari may
be granted when authorized by law, and in all cases where an inferior tri
bunal, board or oﬁicer exercising judicial functions is alleged to have
exceeded his proper jurisdiction, or is otherwise acting illegally, and there
is no other plain, speedy and adequate remedy.

SEC. 4155. By whom granted. The writ may be granted by the dis
trict court, or judge thereof, but if to be directed to said court or judge, or
to the superior court or its judge, then by the supreme court, or one of its
judges, and shall command the defendant therein to certify to the court
from which it issues, at a speciﬁed time and place, a. transcript of the records and proceedings, as well as the facts in the case, describing or referring
to them, or any of them, with convenient certainty, and also to have then
and there the writ, and, when allowed by a court, it shall be issued by the
clerk thereof and under its seal.

SEC. 4156. Stay of proceedings—bond. If a stay of proceedings is
sought, the writ can only issue upon the petitioner giving bond, the penalty
and conditions thereof to be ﬁxed by the court or judge allowing the Writ,
which bond with the sureties thereon may be approved by such court or
judge, or the clerk issuing the writ, and in either case to be ﬁled with the
clerk. 

SEC. 4157. Petition. The petition therefore must state facts constitut
ing a case wherein the writ may issue, and be veriﬁed, and the court or
judge, before issuing it, may require notice of the application to be given
the adverse party, or may grant it without. If a stay of proceedings is
sought, the writ can only be granted upon reasonable notice of the time, place
and court or judge before whom the application will be made, which shall
beﬁxed by the court or judge to whom the application is presented. 

SEC. 4158. Service and return. The writ must be served and the
proof of such service made in the same manner as is prescribed for the
original notice in the district court, except the original shall be left with
the defendant, and the return of service made upon a copy thereof. 

SEC. 4159. Defective return. If the return of the writ be defective,
the court may order a further return to be made, and compel obedience to
the writ and to such further order by attachment, if necessary. 
SEC. 4160. Tria.1—judgment. When full return has been made, the
court must proceed to hear the parties upon the record, proceedings and
facts as certiﬁed, and such other testimony, oral or written, as either party
may introduce, and give judgment aiﬁrming or annulling the proceedings in
whole or in part, or, in its discretion, correcting the same and prescribing
the manner in which the parties or either of them shall further proceed.

SEC. 4161. By ordinary proceedings-appeal. The action shall be
prosecuted by ordinary proceedings so far as applicable, and from the judgment of the court an appeal lies as in ordinary actions, and the record shall
be prepared in the same manner.

SEC. 4162. No writ shall be granted after twelve months
from the time it is alleged the inferior court, tribunal, board or ofﬁcer
exceeded its or his jurisdiction, or otherwise acted illegally. 

SEC. 4163. Where brought-petition.
An action of replevin may
be brought in any county in which the property or some part thereof is situ
ated. The petition must be veriﬁed and must state:
1. A particular description of the property claimed;
2. Its actual value, and, where there are several articles, the actual
value of each;
3. The facts constituting the plaintiiT’s right to the present possession
thereof, and the extent of his interest in the property, whether it be full or
qualiﬁed ownership;
4. That it was neither taken on the order or judgment of a court against
him, nor under an execution or attachment against him or against the prop
erty; but if it was taken by either of these modes, then it must state the
facts constituting an exemption from seizure by such process;
5. The facts constituting the alleged cause of detention thereof, accord
ing to his best belief;
6. THe amount of damages which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought
to recover for the detention thereof.

SEC. 4164. The action shall be by ordinary proceedings, but there shall be no joinder
of any cause of action not of the same kind, nor shall there be allowed any
counterclaim.


SEC. 4165. If the plaintifff alleges in his petition that he will lose the property unless process issues on Sunday, the order may be issued and served on that day.

SEC. 4166. New
part thereof, the
parties. If a third person claims the property or any
plaintifff may amend and bring him in as a co-defendant,
or the defendant may obtain his substitution by the proper mode, or the
claimant may himself intervene by the process of intervention.

SEC. 4167. Bond. When the plaintifff desires the immediate delivery
of the property, he shall execute a bond to the defendant, with sureties to
be approved by the clerk or justice, in a penalty at least equal to twice the
value of the property sought to be taken, conditioned that he will appear
at the next term of the court, if in a court of record, or on the day ﬁxed in
the original notice, if in a justice’s court, and prosecute his action to judg
ment, and return the property, if a return is awarded, and pay all costs
and damages that may be adjudged against him, which bond shall be ﬁled
with the clerk or justice, and be for the use of any person injured by the
proceeding.

SEC. 4168. 'W!'it issued. The clerk or justice shall thereupon issue a
writ under his hand, and the seal of the court if a court of record, directed
to the proper oﬂicer, requiring him to take the property therein described
and deliver it to the plaintiﬁ. If the petition shows that the property has
been wrongfully removed into another county from the one in which the
action is commenced, the writ may issue from the county whence the prop
erty was wrongfully taken, and may be served in any county where it may
be found. 

SEC. 4169. Following property. When any of the property is
removed to another county after the commencement of the action, the
oﬁicer to whom the writ is issued may follow the same and execute the writ
in any county of the state Where the property is found. For the purpose
of following the property, duplicate writs may be issued, if necessary, and
served as the original. 
SEC. 4170. Execution of writ. The oﬂicer must forthwith execute
the writ by taking possession of the property therein described, if it is found
in the possession of the defendant or his agent, or of any other person who
obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly or indirectly, after
the writ was placed in the 0ﬂicer’s hands, for which purpose he may
break open any dwelling-house or other enclosure, having ﬁrst demanded
entrance and exhibited his authority, if demanded. 

SEC. 4171. Defendant examined on oath. When it appears by ath
davit that the property claimed has been disposed of or concealed so that
the writ cannot be executed, the court or judge, upon veriﬁed petition
therefore, may compel the attendance of the defendant or other person claim
ing or concealing the property, and examine him on oath as to the situation
of the property, and punish a willful obstruction or hindrance or disobedience
of the order of the court in this respect as in case of contempt. 

SEC. 4172. Deliverybond. The oﬂicer, havingtakenthepropertyor any
part thereof, shall forthwith deliver the same to the plaintifff, unless, before
the actual delivery to him, the defendant executes a bond to the plaintifff,
with sureties to be approved by the clerk or oﬁicer, conditioned that he will
appear in and defend the action, and deliver the property to the plaintiﬂ, if
he recovers judgment therefore, in as good condition as it was when the
action was commenced, and that he will pay all costs and damages that may
be adjudged against him for the taking or detention of the property; which
bond shall be delivered to the officer, who shall return the property to the
defendant, append the bond to the writ, return it therewith to the oﬁicer
issuing it, and refer thereto in his return on the writ. 

SEC. 4173. Inspection-appraisement. When the property is so
retained by the defendant, he shall permit the oﬁicer and plaintifff to inspect
the same, and, if the plaintifff so request, the ofﬁcer shall cause it to be
examined and appraised by two sworn appraisers chosen by the parties
to the action, or, in their default, by the oﬂicer himself, in the manner pro
vided for other cases of appraisement, and in case they cannot agree he
shall select a third, and an appraisement agreed to by two of them shall be
suﬂicient, and he shall return their appraisement with the writ. 

SEC. 4174. Return of writ. The oﬂicer must return the writ on or
before the ﬁrst day of the trial term, or the return day if before a justice, and
shall state fully what he has done thereunder. If he has taken any prop
erty, he shall describe the same particularly.
SEC. 4175. Assessment of value and da.mag'es—rig'ht of posses
sion. The jury must assess the value of the property and the damages for
the taking or detention thereof, whenever by their verdict there will be a
judgment for the recovery or the return of the property, and, when required
so to do by either party, must ﬁnd the value of each article, and ﬁnd which
is entitled to the possession, designating his right therein, and the value of
such right. 

SEC. 4176. Judgment. The judgment shall determine which
party is
entitled to the possession of the property, and shall designate his right
therein, and if such party have not the possession thereof, shall also deter
mine the value of the right of such party, which right shall be absolute as
to an adverse party, and shall also award such damages to either
as he may be entitled to for the illegal detention thereof.
P'<11't.\'
If the judgment
be against the plaintiﬁ for the money value of the property, it shall also be
against the sureties on his bond.

SEC. 4177. The execution shall require the oﬂicer to
deliver the possession of the property, particularly describing it, to the
party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the oﬂicer to satisfy
any costs, damages or rents and proﬁts, with interest, recovered by the same
judgment, out of the property of the party against whom it was rendered,
subject to execution, and the value of the property for which judgment was
recovered to be speciﬁed therein if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and
gl2i:ii(l)l tléaatgrgspect be deemed an execution against property. 

SEC. 4178. £1a.intiﬂ"s option. If the party found to be entitled to the
property be not already in possession thereof by delivery under the provi
sions of this chapter or otherwise, he may at his option have an execution
for the delivery of the speciﬁc property, or for the value thereof as deter
mined by the jury, and if any article of the property cannot be obtained on
execution, he may take the remainder, with the value of the missing arti
cles. 

SEC. 4179. When property is not forthcoming to
answer the judgment, and for which a bond has been given as hereinbefore
provided, and the party entitled thereto so elects, a judgment may be
gntered against the principal and sureties in the bond for its value. 
SEC. 4180. Examination as to concealment. When it appears by the
return of the oﬁicer or by the affidavit of the plaintifff that any speciﬁc
property which has been adjudged to belong to one party has been con
cealed or removed by the other, the court or a judge may require him to
attend and be examined on oath respecting such matter, and may enforce
its order in this respect as in case of contempt.
SEC. 4181. Exemption. A money judgment rendered under the pro
visions of this chapter for property exempt from execution shall also be to
the same extent exempt from execution, and from all set-oﬁ or diminution
by any person, which exemption may, at the election of the party in inter
est, be stated in the judgment. 

SEC. 4182. By ordinary proceed.ings—joi.nder-counter-c’1aim
Actions for the recovery of real property shall be by ordinary proceedings,
and there shall be no joinder and no counterclaim therein, except of like
proceedings, and as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 4183. Parties. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in
real property, and a right to the immediate possession thereof, may recover
the same by action against any person acting as owner, landlord or tenant
of the property claimed. 

SEC. 4184. The plaintifff must recover on the strength of his own title.

SEC. 4185. In an action by a tenant in common
or joint tenant of real property against his co-tenant, the plaintifff must
show, in addition to his evidence of right, that the defendant either denied
the plaintifff’s right, or did some act amounting to such denial. 

SEC. 4186. Service on agent. When the defendant is a nonresident
having an agent of record for the property in the state, service maybe
made upon such agent in the same manner and with the like effect as though
made on the principal. 
SEC. 4187. Petition. The petition may state generally that the plaintifff
is entitled to the possession of the premises, particularly describing them,
also the quantity of his estate and the extent of his interest therein, and
that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession, and the damages,
if any, which he claims for withholding the same; but if he claims other
damages than the rents and proﬁts, he shall state the facts constituting the
cause thereof. 

SEC. 4188. Abstract of title. The plaintifff shall attach to his petition,
and the defendant to his answer, if he claims title, an abstract of the title
relied on, showing-from and through whom such title was obtained, together
with a statement showing the page and book where the same appears of record.
If such title, or any portion thereof, is not in writing, or does not appear of
record, such fact shall be stated in the abstract, and either party shall furnish
the adverse party with a copy of any unrecorded conveyance, or furnish a sat
isfactory reason for not so doing within a reasonable time after demand
therefore. No written evidence of title shall be introduced on the trial unless
it has been sufficiently referred to in such abstract, which, on motion, may
be made more speciﬁc, or may be amended by the party setting it out. 

SEC. 4189. Answer.
than one, must set forth what
est he claims therein
The answer of the defendant, and each if more
part of the land he claims and what inter
generally, and if as mere tenant, the name and resi
dence of his landlord. 

SEC. 4190. Landlord substituted. When it appears that the defend
ant is only a tenant, the landlord may be substituted by the service upon
him of original notice, or by his voluntary appearance, in which case the
judgment shall be conclusive against him. 

SEC. 4191. Possession. When the defendant makes defense it is not
necessary to prove him in possession of the premises. 

SEC. 4192. Purchase pending suit. Any person acquiring title to
land or any interest therein, after commencement of an action under this chapter to recover the same, shall take subject to notice of and without
prejudice to the rights of the parties to such action. 

SEC. 4193. Order to enter and survey. The court on motion, and
after notice to the opposite party, may for cause shown grant an order
allowing the party applying therefore to enter upon the land in controversy
and make survey thereof for the purposes of the action. 

SEC. 4194. Service. The order must describe the property, and a copy
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the occupancy and
control of the land. 
SEC. 4195. Verdict—specia.l. The verdict may specify the extent and
quantity of the plaintifffs estate and the premises to which he is entitled, with
reasonable certainty, by metes and bounds and other sufficient description,
according to the facts as proved. 
SEC. 4196. General verdict. A general verdict in favor of the plaintifff,
without such speciﬁcations, entitles the plaintifff to the quantity of interest
or estate in the premises as set forth and described in the petition. 
SEC. 4197. Judgment for damages. If the interest of the plaintifff
expires before the time in which he could be put in possession, he can obtain
a judgment for damages only. 

SEC. 4198. The plaintifff cannot recover for the
use and occupation of the premises for more than ﬁve years prior to the con1~
mencement of the action.

SEC. 4199. Improvements set oﬁ‘. When the plaintifff is entitled to
damages for withholding or using or injuring his property, the defendant
may set oﬁ the value of any permanent improvements made thereon to the
extent of the damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the law for the 
beneﬁt of occupying claimants.

SEC. 4200. In case of wanton aggression on the
part of the defendant, the jury may award exemplary damages.
SEC. 4201. Tenant—extent of liability. A tenant in possession in
good faith, under a lease or license from another, is not liable beyond the
rent in arrear at the time of suit brought for the recovery of land, and that
which may afterward accrue during the continuance of his possession.

SEC. 4202. Growing crops-bond. If the defendant avers that he
has a crop sowed, planted or growing on the premises, the jury, ﬁnding for
the plaintifff, and also ﬁnding that fact, shall further ﬁnd the value of the
premises from the date of the trial until the ﬁrst day of January next suc
ceedlng, and no execution for possession shall be issued until that time, if
the defendant executes, with surety to be approved by the clerk, a bond in
double such sum to the plaintifff, conditioned to pay at said date the sum so
assessed, which shall be part of the record, and shall have the force and
effect of a judgment, and if not paid at maturity the clerk, on the applica
tion of the plaintifff, shall issue execution thereon against all the obligors.

SEC. 4203. Writ of possession. When the plaintifff shows himself
entitled to the immediate possession of the premises, judgment shall be
entered and an execution issued accordingly. 

SEC. 4204. Judgment for rent accruing. The plaintifff may have
judgment for the rent or rental value of the premises which accrues after
judgment and before delivery of possession, by motion in the court in which the
judgment was rendered, ten days’ notice thereof in writing being given,
unless judgment is stayed by appeal and bond given to suspend tne judg
ment, in which case the motion may be made after the aﬂirmance thereof.
SEC. 4205. New trial. In the cases provided for by this chapter the
court, in its discretion, may grant a new trial on the application of any
pa.rty thereto, or those claiming under a party, made at any time within
one year after the former trial, although the grounds required for a new
trial in other cases are not shown.

SEC. 4206. If the application is made after the close of the
term at which the judgment was rendered, the
party obtaining a new trial
shall give the opposite party ten days’ notice thereof before the term at
which the action stands for trial. [C. "73, § 3269; R., § 3585.]
SEC. 4207. Purchaser not affected-execution. The result of a. new
trial, if granted at a term subsequent to the one at which the ﬁrst trial was
had, shall in no case aﬁect the rights of third persons, acquired in good
faith and for a valuable consideration after the former trial; but the party
showing himself on the new trial entitled to lands which have thus passed
to a good-faith purchaser, may recover his damages in the same or a subse
quent action against the other party, and the successful party in such new
trial shall have an execution for the property, if the case requires it. 

SEC. 4208. Grounds. A summary remedy for forcible entry or
detention of real property is allowable:
1. Where the defendant has by force, intimidation, fraud or stealth
entered upon the prior actual possession of another in real property, and
detains the same;
2. Where a lessee holds over after the termination or contrary to the
terms of his lease;
3. Where the defendant continues in possession after a sale by fore
closure of a mortgage, or on execution, unless he claims by a title para
mount to the lien by virtue of which the sale was made, or by title derived
from the purchaser at the sale; in either of which cases such title shall be
clearly and concisely set forth in the defendant ’s pleading;
4. For the non-payment of rent, when due.

SEC. 4209. The legal representative of a
person who, if alive, might have been plaintifff may bring this action after
is death.

SEC. 4210. Before action can be brought in any
except the ﬁrst of the above classes, three days’ notice to quit must be
given to the defendant in writing.

SEC. 4211. Jurisd.iction—t1-ansfer-appeal. The district and superior
courts within the county, and justices of the
peace within the township
where the subject-matter of the action is situated, shall have concurrent
original jurisdiction of actions for the forcible entry or detention of real
property, and the court ﬁrst acquiring jurisdiction of an action therefore
shall retain the same until judgment, unless it is transferred as hereinafter
provided. By agreement of the parties, it may be transferred from a jus
tice’s court to a superior or the district court, or from a superior to the dis
trict court, and all such actions in which judgment is rendered in a justice ’s
court may be appealed to the district or superior court, as provided by law.

SEC. 4212. Petition—venue. The action must be by petition, which
must be sworn to, and when brought before a justice of the peace, and there
is none present or qualiﬁed to act in the township where the subject thereof
is situated, it may be brought in any adjoining township in the county. In
any such action a change of place of trial may be had as in other cases. 

SEC. 4213. Substituted service. Where it is made to appear by aili
davit that personal service of the original notice in such action cannot be
made upon the defendant within the state, the same may be made by publi
cation, if in a court of record, or by posting, if in a justice’s court, in the
same manner and for the same length of time as is required in other cases
where such substituted service may be made.
SEC. 4214. Time for appearance. The time for appearance and plead
ing, if in justice’s court, must be not less than two nor more than six days
from the time of completed service of the notice. If in district or superior
court, the same time as is required in ordinary actions. 

SEC. 4215. Adjournment. No adjournment shall be made in justices
courts for more than ten days, except by consent of parties. 
SEC. 4216. Title not investig-ated—tra.nsfer. The question of title
can only be investigated in the district court, and can be pleaded in a.
justice’s court only as provided in subsection three of section forty-two
hundred and eight of this chapter. When so put in issue in a justices
court, the justice shall forthwith, without further proceedings, certify the
cause and papers, with a transcript of his docket, showing the reason of
such transfer to the district court, where the same shall be tried on the
merits. Such cause shall not be dismissed because of error in transferring
the same. When title is put in issue, the cause shall be tried by equitable
proceedings. The appearance term shall be the trial term, and no cou
tinuance shall be granted for the purpose of taking the testimony in writing.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a party from suing for trespass or
from testing the right of property in any other manner.


SEC. 4217. Possession—bar. Thirty days' peaceable possession with
the knowledge of the plaintifff after the cause of action accrues is a bar to
this proceeding.

SEC. 4218. An action of this kind cannot be brought in connection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of counterclaim.
SEC. 4219. The order for removal can be executed only in the daytime.
SEC. 4220. An appeal or writ of error, taken fromt he action of a justice of the peace in such action in the usual way, if the proper security is given, will suspend the execution for costs, and may, with the consent of the plaintifff, prevent a removal under execution, but not otherwise.

SEC. 4221. Judgment. If the defendant is found guilty, judgment
shall be entered that he be removed from the premises, and that the plain
tiff be put in possession thereof, and an execution for his removal shall
issue accordingly, to which shall be added a clause commanding the officer
to collect the costs as in ordinary cases. 

SEC. 4222. Restitution. The court, on the trial of an appeal, may
issue an execution for removal or restitution, as the case may require.

SEC. 4223. Who may bring action.
An action to determine and
quiet the title of real property may be brought by any one, whether in or
out of possession, having or claiming an interest therein, against any person claiming title thereto, though not in possession.

SEC. 4224. '.Petition—notice. The petition therefore must be under
oath, setting forth the nature and extent of his estate, and describing the
premises as accurately as may be, and that he is credibly informed and
believes the defendant makes some claims adverse to the petitioner, and
praying for the establishment of the plaintiiT’s estate, and that the defend
ant be barred and forever estopped from having or claiming any right or title to the premises adverse to the plaintifff. The notice in such action shall
accurately describe the property, and, in general terms, the nature and
extent of the
plaintifffs claim, and shall be served as in other cases.

SEC. 4225. If the defendant appears and dis
claims all right and title adverse to the plaintifff, he shall recover his costs.
In all other cases the costs shall be in the discretion of the court.

SEC. 4226. Demand for qu.itc1aim—attorneys’ fees. If a party,
twenty days or more before bringing suit to quiet a title to real estate,
shall request of the person holding an apparent adverse interest or right
therein the execution of a quitclaim deed thereto, and shall also tender to
him one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents to cover the expense of the execution
and delivery of the deed, and if he shall refuse or neglect to comply there
with, the ﬁling of a disclaimer of interest or right shall not avoid the costs
in an action afterwards brought, and the court may, in its discretion, if the
plaintifff succeeds, tax, in addition to the ordinary costs of court, an attor
ney’s fee for pla.intiﬁ’s attorney, not exceeding twenty-ﬁve dollars if there
is but a single tract not exceeding forty acres in extent, or a single lot in a
city or town, involved, and forty dollars, if but a single tract exceeding
forty acres and not more than eighty acres; in cases in which two or more
tracts are included that may not be embraced in one description, or single
tracts covering more than eighty acres, or two or more city or town lots, a
reasonable fee may be taxed, not exceeding, however, proportionately,
those hereinbefore provided for.
SEC. 4227. Equitable proceedings. In all other respects, the action
contemplated in this chapter shall be conducted as other actions by equitable
proceedings, so far as the same may be applicable, with the modiﬁcations
prescribed. 

SEC. 4228. When allowed. When one or more owners of land,
the corners and boundaries of which are lost, destroyed or in dispute, desire
to have the same established, they may bring an action in the district court
of the county where such lost, destroyed or disputed corners or boundaries,
or part thereof, are situated, against the owners of the other tracts which
will be affected by the determination or establishment thereof, to have such
corners or boundaries ascertained and permanently established. If any
public road is likely to be affected thereby, the proper county shall be made
defendant. 

SEC. 4229. Notice. Notice of such action shall be given as in other
cases, and if the defendants or any of them are nonresidents of the state,
or unknown, they may be served by publication as is provided by law.
SEC. 4230. Pleadings-trial of issue. The action shall be a special
one, and the only necessary pleading therein shall be the petition of plaintifff
describing the land involved, and, so far as may be, the interest of the
respective parties, and asking that certain corners and boundaries therein
described, as accurately as may be, shall be established, and either the
plaintiﬂ or defendant may, by proper plea, put in issue the fact that cer
tain alleged boundaries or corners are the true ones, or that such have been
recognized and acquiesced in by the parties or their grantors for a period of
ten consecutive years, which issue may be tried before commission is
appointed, in the discretion of the court. 

SEC. 4231. The court in which said action is brought shall appoint a commission of one or more disinterested surveyors, who shall, at a date and place fixed by the court in the order of appointment, proceed to locate the lost, destroyed or disputed corners and boundaries.

SEC. 4232. Oath-assistants. The commissioners so appointed shall
subscribe and ﬁle with the clerk, within ten days from the date of their
appointment, an oath for the faithful and impartial discharge of their
duties, and shall have the power to appoint necessary assistants. [Sa.me.]
SEC. 4233. Hearing. At the time and in the manner speciﬁed in the
order of court, the commission shall proceed to locate said boundaries and
corners, and for that purpose may take the testimony of witnesses as to
where the true boundaries and corners are located, and, if that issue is pre
sented, shall also take testimony as to whether the boundaries and corners
alleged to have been recognized and acquiesced in for ten years or more
have in fact been recognized and acquiesced in, and, if it ﬁnds aﬂirma-tively
on such issue, shall incorporate the same into the report to the court.
SEC. 4234. The proceedings may be ad
journed by the commission from time to time as may be necessary, but the
survey and location of the corners and boundaries must be completed and
the report thereof ﬁled with the clerk of the court at least ten days before
the ﬁrst day of the term next following that of its appointment, unless there
are good and sufficient reasons for delay. [Same]
SEC. 4236. Exceptions—hearing in court. At the term of court
after such report is ﬁled, any party interested may ﬁle exceptions thereto
before noon of the second day of the term, and the court shall hear and
determine them, hearing evidence in addition to that reported by the com
mission, if necessary, and may approve or modify such report, or again
refer the matter to the same or another commission for f1n'ther report.

SEC. 4236. Corners and boundaries established. The corners and
boundaries ﬁnally established by the court in such proceeding, or on appeal
therefrom, shall be binding upon the parties as the corners or boundaries
which had been lost, destroyed or in dispute, but if it is found that the
boundaries and corners alleged to have been recognized and acquiesced in
for ten years have been so recognized and acquiesced in, such recognized
boundaries and corners shall be permanently established. 

SEC. 4237. Appeal. There shall be no appeal in such proceeding,
except from ﬁnal judgment of the court, taken in the time and manner that
other appeals are, and heard as in an action by ordinary proceedings. [Same]
SEC. 4238. Costs. The costs in the proceeding shall be taxed as the
court shall think just, and shall be a lien on the land or interest therein
owned by the party or parties against whom they are taxed, so far as such
land is involved in the proceeding. [Same]
SEC. 4239. Agreements. Any lost or disputed corner or boundary
may be determined by written agreement of all parties thereby affected,
signed and acknowledged by each as required for conveyances of real estate,
clearly designating the same, and accompanied by a plat thereof, which
shall be recorded as an instrument affecting real estate, and shall be bind
ing upon their heirs, successors and assigns. 

SEC. 4240. By equitable proceedings -no joinder or counter
claim. The action for partition shall be by equitable proceedings, and no
joinder or counterclaim of any other kind shall be allowed therein, except
to perfect or quiet title, to declare and enforce liens between the parties
to the action, and except as provided by this chapter.

SEC. 4241. Petition. The petition must describe the property and
respective interests of the several owners thereof, known.
If any inter
ests, or the owners of any interests, are unknown, contingent or doubtful,
these facts must be set forth in the petition with reasonable certainty.

SEC. 4242. Abstract of title. The plaintifff shall attach to his petition
and the defendant to his answer, if he claims title, an abstract of the title
relied on, showing from and through whom it was obtained,
and the books
and pages in which the same appears of record. If such title, or any por
tion thereof, is not in writing or does not appear of record, such fact shall
be stated in the abstract, and either party shall furnish the adverse party
with a copy of any unrecorded conveyance, or with a reasonable excuse for
not so doing, within a reasonable time after demand therefore. No written
evidence of title shall be introduced on the trial unless it has been suiﬁ
ciently referred to in such abstract which, on motion, may be made more
speciﬁc, and may be amended as other pleadings. 

SEC. 4243. Contingent interests. Persons having apparent or con
tingent interests in such property may be made parties to the proceedings,
and the proceeds of the property so situated, or the property itself in case
of partition, shall be subject to the order of the court until the right
becomes fully vested. The ascertained share of any absent owner shall be
retained, or the proceeds invested for his beneﬁt, under like order. 

SEC. 4244. Lien creditors. Creditors having a speciﬁc or general lien
upon the entire property may be made parties at the option of the plaintiﬂ
or defendant.
SEC. 4245. Answer. The answers of the defendants must state, among
other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests. They
may deny the interest of any of the plaintifffs, and by supplemental plead
ing, if necessary, may deny the interest of any of the other defendants. 
SEC. 4246. Issues—tria1-costs. Issues may thereupon be joined and
tried between any of the contesting parties, the question of costs on such
issues being regulated between the contestants agreeably to the principles
applicable to other cases. 

SEC. 4247. Reference to ascertain encumbrances. Before making
any order of sale or partition, the court may refer to the clerk or a referee
to report the nature and amount of encumbrances by mortgage, judgment
or otherwise upon any portion of the property. 
SEC. 4248. Proof of encumbrances. The referee shall give the par
ties interested at least ﬁve days’ notice of the time and place when he will
receive proof of the amounts of such encumbrances. 
SEC. 4249. Issue as to encumbrances. If any question arises as to
the validity or amount of an encumbrance, or the ayment of the same, the
court may direct an issue to be made u between t e encumbrancer and an
owner, and an adjudication thereon shall be decisive of their respective
rights; and, upon a sale, it may order the money to be retained or invested to
await ﬁnal action in relation to its disposition, and notice thereof tobe forth
with given to the encumbrancer unless he has already been made a party.

SEC. 4250. If the lien is upon one or more
undivided interests, the holder thereof shall be made a party, and the lien
shall, after partition or sale, remain a charge upon the particular interests
or the proceeds thereof, but the amount of costs is a charge upon those inter
ests, paramount to all other liens.
SEC. 4251. The proceedings in relation to encumbrances shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other shares not affected thereby.
SEC. 4262. Conﬁrmation. After all the shares and interests of the
parties have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid, decree shall be
rendered establishing the rights of the parties, conﬁrming the shares and
interests of the owners of the lands, and directing partition to be made
accordingly.

SEC. 4253. Upon entering such

decree, the court shall appoint referees to make partition, unless the parties agree to a sale of the property, or where it is shown that the property cannot be equitably divided into the requisite number of shares, a. sale
shall be ordered. Three referees shall be ap
pointed to make partition,
unless the parties to the suit agree to a less number, but Where it is shown
that partition cannot be made and a sale is ordered, the court may ﬁx the
number.

SEC. 4254. When a partition is ordered, the
referees must mark out the shares by visible monuments, and may employ
a competent surveyor and assistants to aid them therein, if necessary.
SEC. 4255. Report of referees.
The report of the referees must be in
writing, signed by them, and must describe the respective shares with

reasonable particularity, and be accompanied by a
plat of the premises, and
must allot the shares to their several owners.

SEC. 4256. For good and sufficient reasons appearing to the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular portions of the land to partiuclar individuals. In other cases the shares must be made as nearly as possible of equal value.

SEC. 4257. When partition can be conveniently made of part of the premises, but not of all, one portion may be partitioned and the other sold, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 4258. On good cuase shown, the report may be set aside and the matter again referred to the same or other referees.

SEC. 4259. Judgment. Upon the report of the referees being approved,
a decree shall be rendered conﬁrming the partition and apportioning the
costs as herein provided, entering judgment therefore.

SEC. 4260. Costs. All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall
be paid, in the ﬁrst instance, by the plaintifffs, but eventually by all the parties
in
proportion to their interests, except costs which are created by contests.
SEC. 4261. In actions for partition of real estate,
when a decree ordering partition or sale is rendered, there shall be taxed
lll favor of plaintiiT’s attorney, as costs in the case, an attorney’s fee; but in
no case shall the amount so taxed exceed the following, to wit: for the ﬁrst
two hundred dollars or fraction thereof, ten per cent.; for the next three
hundred dollars, ﬁve per cent.; for the next ﬁve hundred dollars, three per
cent.; and for all excess over above amounts, one per cent. of the value of
the property partitioned. Such value to be determined by the court or
the appraisement, or by the sale when sale is ordered. 

SEC. 4262. Sale-referees to give bond. Before selling, the referees
shall give a bond in a penalty to be ﬁxed by the court, payable to the parties
who are entitled to the proceeds, with sureties to be approved by the clerk,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties. At any time there
after, the court may require further and additional security, and upon fail
ure of the referees to comply with such order they may be removed by the
court and others appointed, and the court may at any time, for satisfactory
reasons, remove them and appoint others. 

SEC. 4263. Notice of sale. The same notice of sale shall be given as when
lands are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the sale shall be conducted
in like manner. [21 G. A., ch. 130; C. ’73, §3f399; R., §3621; C.’15, §2043.]
SEC. 4264. Private sa.1e—appraisement. Whenever in the discretion
of the court such lands can be disposed of to better advantage and with less
expense at private sale than in the manner above provided, they may be
sold on such terms as are ordered by the court, but in such case they shall
be appraised by three disinterested freeholders to be appointed by the court,
and sold for not less than the appraised -value. [21 G. A., ch. 130; R., ,5
3621; C.’51, §2043.]
SEC. 4266. Report of sale. After completing said sale, the referees
must report their proceedings to the court, with a description of the differ
ent parcels sold to each purchaser and the price bid therefore, which report
shall be ﬁled with the clerk. [C. ’73, §3300; R., §3622; C. ’5l, §2044.]
SEC. 4266. Conveyance. If the sale is approved and conﬁrmed by the
court, an order shall be entered directing the referees, or any two of them,
to execute conveyances; but no conveyances can be made until all the money
is paid, without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage on the land so
sold, or other equivalent security. 

SEC. 4267. Validity. Such conveyances, being recorded in the county
where the premises are situated, shall be valid against all subsequent pur
chasers, and also against all persons interested at the time, who were made
parties to the proceedings in the mode pointed out by law. [C. ’73, § 3302;
R., 3634; C.'5l, §‘-2056.]
SEC. 4268. When parties are married. If the owner of any share
thus sold has a husband or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not
agree as to the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such sale.
the court must direct it to be invested in real estate, under the supervision
of such person as it may appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner
of the share sold as aforesaid. [C.’73, § 3303; R., § 3635; C.’51, § 2057.]
SEC. 4269. Sales disapproved. If the sales are disapproved, the
money paid and the securities given must be returned to the persons respec
tively entitled thereto. 

SEC. 4270. Security to refund money. The court in its discretion
may require all or any of the parties, before they receive the monies aris
ing from any sale aut-horized in this chapter, to give satisfactory security
to refund the same, with interest, in case it afterward ap
pears that such
parties were not entitled thereto. 

SEC. 4271. Life estates. If a tenant for life or years is entitled as such
to a part of the proceeds of sale, and the parties cannot agree upon a sum
in gross which they will consider an equivalent for such estate, the court
shall direct the avails of the incumbered property to be invested, and the
proceeds to be paid to the encumbrancer during the term of the incum
brance. 

SEC. 4272. Compensation of appraisers and referees. Appraisers
and referees appointed under the provisions of this chapter shall receive
such reasonable compensation for their services as the court allows, which
shall be taxed as a part of the costs.

SEC. 4273. Of personal property-by notice and sale. A mortgage of personal property to secure the payment of money only, Where the
time of payment is therein ﬁxed, may be foreclosed by notice and sale,
unless a. stipulation to the contrary has been agreed upon by the parties, or
by action in the proper court. 

SEC. 4274. The notice must contain a full description of the
rtgaged, together with the time, place and terms of sale. [C.
’73, § 3308; R., §3650; C.’51, §2072.]
SEC. 4275. Service. Such notice must be served on the mortgagor and
all purchasers from him subsequent to the execution of the mortgage, and
all persons having recorded liens upon the same property which are junior
to the mortgage, or they will not be bound by the proceedings. [C. '73,3309; R., §365l; C.’51, § 2073.]
SEC. 4276. Return. The service and return must be made in the same
manner as in the case of the original notice by which civil actions are com»
menced in courts of record, except that no publication in the newspapers is
necessary, the general publication directed in the next section being a suﬂi
cient service upon all the parties in cases where service is to be made by
publication. 

SEC. 4277. Notice of sale. After notice has been served upon the
parties, it must be published in the same manner and for the same length
of time as is required in cases of the sale of like property on execution, and
the sa.l§e be conducted in the same manner. [C. ’73, § 3311; R., §3653;
C. ’51, 20 .
SEC. 4278. Title of purchaser. The purchaser shall takeall the title
and lIl2t€;‘0Sl3 on which the mortgage operated. [C.’73, §3312; R., § 3654; C.
’51, § 0 6.
SEC. 42 9. Attorney fees. If the notes secured by such mortgage,
or the mortgage itself, provide for the payment of attorney’s fees, the
same fees shall be collected as are provided by law in actions upon such
contracts, if an attorney is employed to look after and direct the proceed
ings, who shall make an aﬁidavit like that required in actions, and have it
attached by the oﬁicer or person making sale to his return of the proceed
ings thereunder.

SEC. 4280. Bill of sale. The oﬁicer or person conducting the sale
shall execute to the purchaser a bill of sale of the property, which shall
be eﬁectual to carry the whole title and interest purchased. [C. ’73, § 3313;
R., § 3655; C.’51, § 2077.]
SEC. 4281. Evidence of service perpetuated. Evidence of the serv
ice and publication of the notice aforesaid, and of the sale made in accord
ance therewith, together with any postponement or other material matter,
shall be perpetuated by aﬂidavits reciting the facts attached to the bill of
sale,-and shall constitute the return of the oﬁicer or person making the sale.
and be receivable in evidence to prove the facts they state. 
SEC. 4282. Validity of sales.
Sales made in accordance with the
above requirements are valid as to property sold to a purchaser in good
faith, whatever may be the equities between the mortgagor and mortgagee.
[C. ’73, § 3316; R., § 3658; C351, § 2081.]
SEC. 4283. How contested. The right of the mortgagee to foreclose,
as well as the amount claimed to be due, may be contested by any one inter
ested in so doing, and the proceeding may be transferred to the district
court, for which purpose an injunction may issue, i.f necessary. 

SEC. 4284. Deeds of trust. Deeds of trust of real or personal prop
erty may be executed as securities for the performance of contracts, and
shall be considered as, and foreclosed like, mortgages. [C.’73, § 3318; R., §
3673; C.’51, §2096.]
SEC. 4286. Sale under pledge. Where chattel property is pledged as
security for an indebtedness, unless provision is made by an agreement in
writing therefore, the same may be sold for the non-payment of the indebt
edness by giving the pledgor, or any purchaser or assignee under him of‘
the property or any part of it of which he has notice in writing, ten days’
written notice of his intention to sell the same and make an application of
the proceeds to the satisfaction of the debt, and posting for the same time
in three public places in the township of such pledgor’s residence a notice
containing a full and accurate description of the property to be sold, the
time and hour when, and the place at which, the sale will take place. If
redemption is not made before the date thus ﬁxed, the pledgee may sell at
public auction, to the highest bidder, the pledged property, or so much of
the same as may be necessary to pay the debt, interest and all costs of mak
ing such sale, and may be a bidder at such sale. He shall apply the pro
ceeds, jirst, in the payment of such costs, and second, to the payment of the
debt. Any surplus arising from the sale and any property remaining‘
unsold shall be paid or returned to the pledgor or his assigns.
SEC. 4286. Foreclosure by action. Such pledgee may commence an
action in equity for the foreclosure of such collaterals or pledges, and the
court shall determine all issues presented as in other equity cases, and ren
der judgment for the amount due from the pledgor, and award special
execution for the sale of the collaterals or pledges, and general execution
for any balance, or shall render such judgment as may be necessary to
carry out any written agreement of the parties concerning the subject
matter; but in all cases a sale may be ordered unless there is a written stip
ulation to the contrary.
SEC. 4287. Of real property-foreclosure by equitable proceed
ings. No deed of trust or mortgage of real estate shall be foreclosed in
any other manner than by action in court by equitable proceedings. 

SEC. 4288. Separate suits on note and mo e. If separate
actions are brought in the same county on the bond or note, and on the mort
gage given fo secure it, the plaintifff must elect which to prosecute. The
other will be discontinued at his cost. 

SEC. 4289. Judgment-sale and redemption.
When a mortgage or
deed of trust is foreclosed, the court shall render judgment for the entire
amount found to be due, and must direct the mortgaged property, or so
much thereof as is necessary, to be sold to satisfy the same, with interest
and costs. A s
pecial execution shall issue accordingly, and the sale there
under shall be subject to redemption as in cases of sale under general
execution. 
SEC. 4290. If the mortgaged property does not sell for sufficient to satisfy the execution, a general execution may be issued against the mortgagor, unless the parties have stipulated otherwise.
SEC. 4291. Overplus. If there is an overplus remaining after satisfy
ing the mortgage and costs, and if there is no other lien upon the roperty,
such overplus shall be paid to the mortgagor.

SEC. 4292. Junior encumbrancer entitled to assignment. At any
time prior to the sale, a person having alien on the property which is junior
to the mortgage will be entitled to an assignment of all the interest of the
holder of the mortgage, by paying him the amount secured, with interest
and costs, together with the amount of any other liens of the same holder
which are paramount to his. He may then proceed with the foreclosure, or 
discontinue it, at his option.

SEC. 4293. Other liens. If there are any other liens on the property
sold, or other payments secured by the same mortgage, they shall be paid
off in their order. And if the money secured by any such lien is not yet
due, a. rebate of interest, to be ﬁxed by the court or judge thereof, must be
made by the holder, or his lien on such property will be postponed to those
of a junior date, and if there are none such, the balance shall be paid to the
mortgagor. 

SEC. 4294. How much sold. As far as practicable, the property sold
must be only

suﬂicient to satisfy the mortgage foreclosed.

SEC. 4295. Satisfaction acknowledged. When the amount due on a
mortgage is paid off, the mortgagee, or those legally acting for him, and in
case of payment of a school fund mortgage the county auditor, must
acknowledge satisfaction thereof in the margin of the record of the
mortgage, or by execution of an instrument in writing, referring to the
mortgage, and duly acknowledged and recorded. If he fails to do so within
thirty days after being requested in writing, he shall forfeit to the mort
gagor the sum of twenty-ﬁve dollars. When any mortgage is satisﬁed on
the margin of the record of the mortgage, as herein provided, the person
satisfying the same shall be identiﬁed to and his signature shall be wit
nessed by the county recorder or his deputy. 

SEC. 4296. Entry on records. When a judgment of foreclosure is
entered in any court, the clerk shall make upon the margin of the record
of the mortgage foreclosed a minute showing that fact, in what court fore
closed, and giving the date of the decree; and when the judgment is fully
paid off and satisﬁed upon the judgment docket of such court, the clerk
shall enter satisfaction upon the margin of such mortgage, and he shall be
allowed as compensation for such service the sum of twenty-ﬁve cents, to
be taxed as a part of the costs in the case. [C. ’73, § 3328.]
SEC. 4297. Foreclosure of title bond. In cases where the vendor
of real estate has given a. bond or other writing to convey the same on pay
ment of the purchase money, and such money or any part thereof remains
unpaid after the day ﬁxed for payment, whether time is or is not _of the
essence of the contract, the vendor may ﬁle his petition asking the court to
require the purchaser to perform his contract, or to foreclose and sell his
interest in the property. 

SEC. 4298. Vendee deemed mortgagor. The vendee shall in such
cases, for the purpose of the foreclosure, be treated as a mortgagor of the
_property purchased, and his rights may be foreclosed in a similar manner.

SEC. 4299. Forfeiture-—notice. Any contract hereafter. made for the
sale of real estatc in the state of Iowa, and which provides for the forfeiture
of vendee’s rights therein upon the happening of certain conditions, shall
not be forfeited or canceled unless, thirty days before a declaration of for
feiture is made, a written notice be served on the vendee or assignee, notice
of whose rights as assignee has been conveyed to vendor, and on the party
.in possession of said real estate, which notice shall be served in same
manner and by same parties authorized to serve original notices, and shall
contain a declaration of an intention to forfeit said contract, and the reason
"therefore. [26 G. A., ch. 73, § 1.]
SEC. 4300. Performance. For the period of thirty days after service
of said notice the vendee, or those claiming under him, may discharge any
unpaid payment and costs of service of notice of forfeiture, or perform any
condition broken; and, if said payments are made or conditions broken are
performed within said period of thirty days, the right to forfeit for defaults
occurring before said notice is served is terminated. [Same, § 2.]
SEC. 4301. Terms of contract. The requirements contained in sections
forty-two hundred and ninety-nine and forty-three hundred shall be operative
in all cases where the intention of the parties, as gathered from the contract
and surrounding circumstances, is to sell or to agree to sell an interest in
real estate, any contract or agreement of the parties to the contrary not
withstanding. 

SEC. 4302. Nuisance -what constitutes-—action to abate.
Whatever is injurious to health, indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as essentially to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and a
civil action by ordinary proceedings may be brought to enjoin and abate the
same and to recover damages sustained on account thereof. 

SEC. 4308. Waste by guardian or tenants—da.mages. If a guardian,
tenant for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of real property
commit waste thereon, he is liable to pay three times the damages which
have resulted from such waste, to the
person who is entitled to sue therefor.

SEC. 4304. Judgment of forfeiture and
eviction may be rendered against the defendant whenever the amount of
damages so recovered is more than two-thirds the value of the interest such
defendant has in the property injured, when the action is brought by the
person entitled to the reversion. [C.‘73, § 3333; R., § 3717; C. ’51, § 2135.]
SEC. 4306. Who deemed to have committed waste. Any person
whose duty it is to prevent waste, and who fails to use reasonable and ordi
nary care to avert the same, shall be held to have committed it. [C. ’73, §
3334; R., §3718; C.’51, §2136.]
SEC. 4306. Treble damages for injury to trees. For willfully
injuring any timber, tree or shrub on the land of another, or in the street
or highway in front of another’s cultivated ground, yard or town lot, or on
the public grounds of any city or town, or any land held by the state for
any purpose Whatever, the perpetrator shall pay treble damages at the suit
of any person entitled to protect or enjoy the property. 

SEC. 4307. Remainder or reversion. The owner of an estate in
remainder or reversion may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for
injuries done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate for
life or years. [C. '73, § 3337; R., § 3721; C/51, 2139.]
SEC. 4308. Heir. An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may main
tain these actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestor as well as lll
his o\wn time, unless barred by the statute of limitations. 

SEC. 4309. Purchaser at execution sale. The purchaser of lands or
tenements at execution sale may have and maintain an action against any
person for either of the causes above mentioned, occurring or existing after
such purchase; but this provision shall not be construed to forbid the person
occupying the lands in the meantime from using them in the ordinary course
of husbandry, or taking timber with which to make suitable repairs thereon,
unless the timber so taken shall be of higher grade than required, in which
case he shall be held guilty of waste and liable accordingly. 

SEC. 4310. Settlers on lands of state. Any person settled upon and
occupying any portion of the public lands held by the state is not liable as
a trespasser for improving or cultivating it in the ordinary course of hus
bandry, nor for taking and using timber or other materials necessary and
proper to enable him to do so, provided the timber and other materials are
taken from land properly constituting a part of the “claim” or tract of land
so settled upon and occupied by him. [C.’73, § 3342; R., § 3726; G351, §
2144.]
SEC. 4311. Holder of tax certiﬁcate. The owner of a. treasurer’s
certiﬁcate of purchase of land sold for taxes may recover treble damages of
any person willfully committing waste or trespass thereon. [C. ’73, § 3343.]
SEC. 4312. Disposition of money. All money recovered in an action
brought under the preceding section shall be paid by the oﬂicer collecting
it to the auditor of the county in which the lands are situated, which shall
be held by him, and an entry thereof made in a book kept for that purpose,
until the lands are redeemed, or a treasurer’s deed therefore executed to the
holder of said certiﬁcate. If redemption is made, the money shall be paid
to the owner of the land, and if not, to the person to whom the deed is exe
cuted. 

SEC. 4313. For what causes. A civil action by ordinary proceed
ings may be brought in the name of the state in the following cases:
1. Against any person unlawfully holding or exercising any public ofﬁce
or franchise within this state, or any oﬁice in any corporation created by .
this state;
2. Against any public oﬂicer who has done or suffered an act which
works a forfeiture of his oﬂice;
3. Against any person acting as a corporation within the state Without
being authorized by law;
4. Against any corporation doing or omitting acts which amount to a
forfeiture of its rights and privileges as a corporation, or exercising powers
not conferred by law;
5. Against any person claiming under any patent, granted by the proper
authorities of the state, for the purpose of annulling or vacating the same
as having been obtained by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a
material fact, or when the defendants have done or omitted an act in viola
tion of the terms or conditions on which the letters were granted, or have
by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same. 

SEC. 4314. In such action there shall be no joinder of any otehr cause of action, nor any counterclaim. 

SEC. 4315. By county attorney. Such action may be commenced by
the county attorney at his discretion, and must be so commenced when
directed by the governor, the general assembly or a court of record.

SEC. 4316. _ By private person.
If the county attorney, on demand,
neglects or refuses to commence the same, any citizen of the state -having
an interest in the question may apply to the court in which the action is ix)
be commenced, or to the judge thereof, for leave to do so, and, upon obtain
ing such leave, may bring and prosecute the action to ﬁnal judgment.

SEC. 4317. Petition. The petition shall contain a statement of the facts
which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, and, with the notice and
all the subsequent pleadings and proceedings, shall conform to the rules
given for procedure in civil actions, except so far as the same are modiﬁed
by this cha ter. [C.’73, §3349; R., § 3736-8; C/51, § 2154-6.]
SEC. 43 8. Costs. When such action is brought upon the relation of a
private individual, that fact shall be stated in the petition, and the order
"allowing him to prosecute may require that he shall be responsible for costs
in case they are not adjudged against the defendant. In other cases the
ayment of costs shall be regulated by the same rule as in criminal actions.
F0. ’73, § 3350; R., § 3746; G.’51, § 2164.
SEC. 4319. Right to an oﬁce. W en the defendant is holding an office
to which another is claiming the right, the petition shall set forth the name
of such claimant, and the trial must, if practicable, determine the rights of
the contesting parties. [C.’73, §3351; R., § 3739; O.’51, §2157.]
SEC. 4320. Several claimants. When several persons claim to be
entitled to the same oﬁice or franchise, a petition may be ﬁled against all
or any portion thereof, in order to try their respective rights thereto. 

SEC. 4321. Judgment. If judgment is rendered in favor of such claim
ant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the oﬁice, after he has
qualiﬁed as required by law. 
SEC. 4322. Books and papers. The court, after such judgment, shall
order the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his custody or
under l]1is control belonging to said oﬂice. 
SEC. 4323. Action for damages. When judgment has been rendered
in favor of the claimant he may, at any time within one year thereafter,
bring an action against the defendant, and recover the damages he has sus
tainegd by reason of the act of the defendant. 
SEC. 43 4. Judgment of ouster. If the defendant is found guilty of
unlawfully holding or exercising any oﬂice, franchise or privilege, or if a.
corporation is found to have violated the law by which it holds its existence,
or is acting contrary to law, or in any manner to have done acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges, judgment shall be
rendered that such defendant be ousted and altogether excluded from such
oﬁice, franchise or privilege, and also that he pay the costs of the proceed
mg. 
SEC. 4325. Judgment in other cases. If the defendant is found to
have exercised merely certain individual powers and privileges to which he
was not entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above directed, but only
in relation to those particulars in which he is thus exceeding the lawful
g>1Ig§c:]ise of his rights and privileges. 

SEC. 4326. Pretended corporation—costs. In case judgment is ren
‘dered against a pretended but not real corporation, the cost may be collected
from any person who has been acting as an oﬁicer or proprietor thereof.

SEC. 4327. Action against oﬁcers of corporation. When judgment
of ouster is rendered against a corporation on account of the misconduct of
the directors or oﬁicers thereof, such oﬂicers shall be jointly and severally
liable to an action by any one injured thereby. [C.’73, § 3359; R., § 3755;
O.’51, § 2173.] .
SEC. 4328. Corporation dissolved. If a. corporation is ousted and
dissolved by the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall appoint
three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.
[C.’73, §3360; R., §3748; O.’51, §2166.]
SEC. 4329. Bond. Said trustees shall enter into a bond in such a pen
alty and with such security as the court approves, conditioned for the faith
ful discharge of their trust. C.’73, § 3361; R., § 3749; C.’51, § 2167.]
SEC. 4330. Action on. ction may be brought on such bond by any
person injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the dis
charge of their duties. [(3. ’73, § 3362; R., § 3750; C. ’51, § 2168.]
SEC. 4331. Duty of trustees. The trustees shall proceed immediately
to collect the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide
1§sh?e sur]plus among those thereto entitled. [C.’73, § 3363; R., § 3751; C. '51,
169.
SEC. 4332. Books delivered to. The court shall, upon application
for that purpose, order any oﬁicer of such corporation, or any other person
having possession of any of the effects, books or papers thereof, in any wise
necessary for the settlement of its affairs, to deliver the same to the trustees.
[(3. ’73, § 3364; R., § 3752; C. ’51, § 2170.]
SEC. 4333. Inventory. As soon as practicable after their appointment,
the trustees shall make and ﬁle in the oﬂice of the clerk of the court an
inventory, sworn to by each of them, of all the eﬁects, rights and credits
which come to their possession or knowledge. [C. ’73, § 3365; R., §3753;
C. ’51, § 2171.]
sEC. 4334. Powers. They shall sue for and recover the debts and
property of the corporation, and shall be responsible to the creditors and
stockholders, respectively, to the extent of the effects which come into their
hands. [O. ’73, § 3366; R., § 3754; C. ’51, § 2172.]
SEC. 4336. Penalty for refusing to obey order. Any person who
without good reason refuses to obey an order of the court, as herein pro
vided, shall be guilty of contempt, and ﬁned in any sum not exceeding ﬁve
thousand dollars, and imprisoned in the county jail until he complies there
with, and shall be further liable for the damages resulting to any person on
account of his disobedience. 

SEC. 4336. Oﬁcial bonds construed. The ofﬁcial bond of a.
public oﬂicer is to be construed as a security to the body politic or civil cor
poration of which he is an oﬁicer, and to all the members thereof, severally,
who zltre intended to be secured thereby. [C.’73, § 3368; R., § 3727; C. ’51, §
2145.
SEC. 4337. Prior judgment no bar. A judgment in favor of aparty
for one delinquency does not preclude the same or another party from an
action on the same security for another delinquency, except that sureties
can be made liable in the aggregate only to the extent of their undertaking
[C.’73, § 3369; R., § 3728; C.’51, § 2147.]
SEC. 4338. Fines and forfeitures. Fines and forfeitures not other
wise disposed of go into the treasury of the county where the same are 001
l§ecte<l,]for the beneﬁt of the school fund. 

SEC. 4339. By whom action prosecuted. Actions for their recovery
may be prosecuted by the officers or persons to whom they by law belong,
in whole or in part, or by the ublic officer into whose hands they
paid when collected. C. ’73,
SEC. 4340. Collus on. A judgment for a penalty or forfeiture, rendered by collusion, does not prevent another action or the same subject
matter.
SEC. 4341. Deﬁnition. The action of mandamus is one brought
to obtain an order commanding an inferior tribunal, board, corporation or
person to do or not to do an act, the performance or omission of which the
law enjoins as a duty resulting from an ofﬁce, trust or station. Where dis
cretion is left to the inferior tribunal or person, the mandamus can only
compel it to act, but cannot control such discretion.

SEC. 4342. Order issued. The order may be issued by the district or
superior court to any inferior tribunal, or to any corporation, oﬁicer or per
son; and by the supreme court to any district or superior court, if necessary,
and in any other case where it is found necessary for that court to exercise
its legitimate power. 

SEC. 4343. Extent of remedy. The plaintiﬁ in any action, except
those brought for the recovery of speciﬁc real or personal property, may
also, as an auxiliary relief, have an order of mandamus to compel the per
formance of a duty established in such action. But if such duty, the per
formance of which is sought to be compelled, is not one resulting from an
oﬁice, trust or station, it must be one for the breach of which a legal right
to damages is already complete at the commencement of the action, and
must also be a duty of which a court of equity would enforce the perform
ance. 

SEC. 4344. Other remedy. An order of mandamus shall not be
issued in any case where there is a plain, speed; and adequate remedy in
the ordinary course of the law, save as herein provided.
SEC. 4345. The order of mandamus is
granted on the petition of any private party aggrieved, without the concur
rence of the prosecutor for the state, or on the petition of the state by the
county attorney, when the public interest is concerned, and is in the name
of such private party or of the state, as the case may be in fact brought.

SEC. 4346. The plaintifff in such action shall state his claim,
and shall also state facts suﬁicient to constitute a cause for such claim, and
shall also set forth that the plaintifff, if a private individual, is personally
interested therein, and that he sustains and may sustain damage by thenon
performance of such duty, and that performance thereof has been demanded
by him, and refused or neglected, and shall pray an order of mandamus
commanding the defendant to fulﬁll such duty. 

SEC. 4347. Other pleadings. The pleadings and other proceedings
in any action in which a mandamus is claimed shall be the same, as nearly
as may be, and costs shall be recoverable by either
party, as in an ordinary
action for the recovery of damages.

SEC. 4348. When the action is
brought by a private person, it may be joined with a cause of action for
such an injunction as may be obtained by ordinary proceedings, or with the
causes of action speciﬁed in this chapter, but no other joinder and no coun
ter-claim shall be allowed. 

SEC. 4349. When the plaintiﬁ recovers judgment,
the court may include therein a peremptory order of mandamus directed to
the defendant, commanding him forthwith to
perform the duty to be
enforced, together with a money judgment for damages and costs, upon
which an ordinary execution may issue.

SEC. 4350. Return. The order shall simply command the performance
of the duty, shall be directed to the party, and may be issued in term or
vacation, returnable forthwith, and no return except that of compliance
shall be allowed; but time to return it may, upon suﬂicient grounds, be
allowed by
the court or judge, either with or without terms.
SEC. 4351. Performance by another—costs. The court may, upon
application of the plaintifff, besides or instead of proceeding against the
defendant by attachment, direct that the act required to be done may be
done by the plaintifff or some other person appointed by the court, at the
expense of the defendant, and, upon the act being done, the amount of such
expense may be ascertained by the court, or by a referee appointed by the
court or judge, and the court may render judgment for the amount of the
expgnse7an]d cost, and enforce payment thereof by execution. 
SEC. 4352. Temporary orders. During the pendency of the action,
the court, or judge in vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing
damage or injury to the plaintiﬁ until the action is decided. 
SEC. 4353. Appeal by state. When the state is a party, it may appeal
without security. 
SEC. 4364. When allowed. An injunction may be obtained as an
independent remedy in an action by equitable proceedings, in all cases
where such relief would have been granted in equity previous to the adoption of the code; and in all cases of breach of contract or other injury,
where the party injured is entitled to maintain and has brought an action by
ordinary proceedings, he may, in the same cause, pray and have a writ of
injunction against the repetition or continuance of such breach of contract
or other injury, or the commission of any breach of contract or injury of a
like kind arising out of -the same contract or relating to the same property
or right, and he may also, in the same action, include a claim for damages
or other redress.

SEC. 4355. In any of the cases men
tioned in the preceding section, the injunction may either be a. part of the
judgment rendered in the action, or it may, if proper grounds therefore are
shown, be granted by order at any stage of the case before judgment, and
shall then be known as a temporary injunction. [C. ’73, § 3387; R., §3775;
C351, §2191.]
SEC. 4356. '1‘emporary—when allowed. Where it appears by the
petition therefore, which must be supported by aﬁidavit, that the plaintifff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, con
sists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act which would
produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff; or where, during litiga
tion, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do,
or is procuring or suﬁering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff ’s
rights respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judg
ment ineﬁectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such
act.
It may also be granted in any case where it is specially authorized by
statute. 

SEC. 4357. By whom granted. A temporary injunction may be
granted:
1. By the court or judge-thereof in which the action is pending or is to
be brought;
2. By any judge of the district court of such district, or a superiorcourt
in the proper county;
3. By any judge of the supreme, or a judge of any other district court.
But in cases where an action is pending, and it is applied for to affect
the subject-matter thereof, it can only be granted by the court or judge
thereof in which such action is pending. Nor shall it be granted by any
judge mentioned in the second subdivision hereof, unless it satisfactorily
appears by aﬁidavit that the court or judge thereof in which the action is
brought cannot, for want of time, sickness, or other disability, hear the
same, or that the residence of the judge is inconvenient, or that it is for
some suﬂicient reason impracticable to make the application to him. Nor
shall it be granted by any judge mentioned in the third subdivision hereof,
unless it be made satisfactorily to appear to such judge, by aﬁidavit, that
the application therefore cannot, for some sufﬁcient reason, be made to either
of the courts or judges mentioned in the ﬁrst or second subdivision of this section. 

SEC. 4358. Notice to defendant who has answered. An injunction
shall not be granted against a defendant who has answered, unless he has
had notice of the application.
[o.’73, § 3390.]
SEC. 4359. Notice in other cases. An injunction to stop the general
and ordinary business of a. corporation, or the operations of a railway, or of
a municipal corporation, or the erection of any building or other work, or
the board of supervisors of any county, or to restrain a nuisance, can only
be granted upon reasonable notice of the time and place of the application
to the party to be enjoined; nor shall any temporary writ of injunction be
allowed by any judge during term time, except the petition therefore shall
be ﬁrst ﬁled with the clerk and entered upon the court calendar of that term,
and the order allowing the same, if granted, shall be entered therein

SEC. 4360. Refusal by court conclusive. No injunction shall be
granted by a judge after the application therefore has been overruled by
the court; nor by a. court or judge, when it has been refused by the court 01'
judge thereof in which the action is brought. A judge refusing an injunc
tion §sha.1l, if requested by either party, give him a certiﬁcate thereof. 

SEC. 4361. Motion to dissolve. The defendant may move to dissolvtj
the injunction, either before or after the ﬁling of the answer. 
SEC. 4362. Order issued. If the order is made by the court, the clerk
shall make an entry thereof in the court record, and issue the order accord
ingly. If made by the judge, he must indorse the said order upon the P911‘
tion. 

SEC. 4363. Bond. The order of allowance must direct the injunctwﬂ
to issue only after the ﬁling of a bond in the oﬂice of the clerk of the PTOPQT
court, in a penalty ﬁxed in the order, with sureties to be approved by
the clerk, and conditioned for the payment of all damages which mill’ be
adjudged against petitioner by reason of such injunction. 

SEC. 4364. When to restrain proceedings or judgment. When
proceedings in a civil action, or on a judgment or ﬁnal order, are sought to
be enjoined, the action must be brought in the county and court in which
such action is pending or the judgment or order was obtained, unless such
judgment or ﬁnal order is obtained in the supreme court, in which case the
action must be brought in the county
and court from which the case was
taken to the supreme court.

SEC. 4365. In an action to enjoin the proceedings
in a civil action, or on a judgment or ﬁnal order, the bond must be further con
ditioned to pay such judgment, or comply with such ﬁnal order if the
injunction is not made perpetual, or to pay any judgment that may be ulti
mately recovered against the party obtaining the injunction on the cause of
action enjoined. 

SEC. 4366. Penalty. The penalty of the bond must be twice the prob
able amount of liability to be thereby incurred. 
SEC. 436 . Defendant to show cause. The court or judge, before
granting the writ, may allow the defendant an opportunity to show cause
why such order should not be granted. 
SEC. 4368. Application for dissolution. If the order is granted
without allowing the defendant to show cause, he may, at any time before
the next term of the court, applyto the judge who made the order to vacate
or modify the same, or the application may be made to the judge of the
court in which the action is pending. 
SEC. 4369. Notice-showing. The application must be with notice to
the plaintifff, upon the ground that the order was improperly granted, or it
may be founded on the answer of defendants and afﬁdavits. In the latter case,
the plaintifff may fortify his application by counter aﬂidavits, and have
reasonable time therefore.

SEC. 4370. The judge shall decide the matter at once,
unless some good cause for delay is shown, but the vacation of the order
shall not prevent the action from proceeding, if anything is left to proceed
upon.

SEC. 4371. Only one motion to dissolve or modify
an injunction upon the whole case shall be allowed.

SEC. 4372. Proceedings for violation. Any judge of the supreme,
district or superior court, being furnished with an authenticated copy of the
injunction and satisfactory proof that it has been violated, shall issue his
precept to the sheriff of the county where the violation occurred, or to any
other sheriff, naming him, more convenient to all parties concerned, direct
ing him to attach the defendant and bring him forthwith before the same or
some other judge, at a place to be stated in said precept.

SEC. 4373. Contempt purged. When produced, he may ﬁle his
aﬁidavit denying or excusing the contempt, and the court may hear other
evidence oral or by aﬂidavit, and if satisﬁed that the defendant is not guilty,
or that the contempt is sufficiently excused, he shall be released, and all
affidavits shall be ﬁled with and preserved by the clerk. [
SEC. 4374. Bon required. If not so released, the judge may require
him to give bond, with surety, for his appearance at the next term of the
court and for his future obedience to the injunction, which shall be ﬁled
with the clerk. 
SEC. 4375. ommitment. If he fails to give suc bond, he may be
committed to the jail of the county where the proceedings are pending until
the next term of court, unless he gives the bond in the meantime. 
SEC. 4376. Contempt punished. The court at the next term shall
act upon the case, and, if a contempt is found to have been committed,
punish it in the usual mode. 

SEC. 4377. Agreed statement of facts. Parties to a question in
difference, which might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action,
present an agreed statement of the facts to any court having jurisdiction of
the subject-matter. 
SEC. 4378. Aﬁdavit. It must be shown by aiﬁdavit that the contro
versy is real, and that the proceeding is in good faith to determine the rights
of the parties thereto. 
SEC. 4379. Judgment. The court shall hear and determine the case
and render judgment as if an action were pending. 
SEC. 4380. Record. The statement, the submission and the judgment
shall constitute the rec0rd.
Snc. 4381. Judgment enforced. The judgment shall be with costs,
and it may be enforced and shall be subject to review in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided for in the
submission. 
SEC. 4382. Submission of cause pending. The same may also be
done at any time before trial in an action pending, subject to the same
requirements and attended by the same results as in a case without action,
and such submission of a stated case shall be an abandonment by both par
ties of all pleadings ﬁled in such cause, and the cause shall stand on the
agreed case alone, which must provide for any lien created for attachment,
and for any property in the custody of the law, else such lien and custody
will be held to be waived. 

SEC. 4383. Judgment. The parties may, if they think ﬁt, enter into
an agreement in writing that, upon the judgment of the court being given
on the question of law raised, particular property therein described, or a
sum of money ﬁxed by the parties or to be ascertained by the court or in
such manner as the court may direct, shall be delivered to and vested in one
of the parties by theother, or, in case of money, shall be paid by one of
such arties to the other of them, either with or without costs of the action;
and t e judgment of the court may be entered for the transfer and delivery
of such property, or for such sum as shall be so agreed or ascertained, with
or without costs, as the case may be.
SEC. 4384. In case no agreement is entered into as to the costs, they shall follow the event of the action, and be recovered by the successful party.

SEC. 4385. What controversies. All controversies which might be
the subject of civil action may be submitted to the decision of one or more
arbitrators, as hereafter provided. 
SEC. 4386. The parties themselves, or those
persons who might lawfully have controlled a civil action in their behalf
for the same subject-matter, must sign and acknowledge a written a
gree
ment, specifying particularly what demands are to be submitted, the names
of the arbitrators, and court by which the judgment on their award is to be
rendered. 

SEC. 4387. What submitted. The submission may be of some par
ticular matters or demands, or of all demands which the one
party has
against the other, or of all mutual demands on both sides. 
SEC. 4388. Action pending. A submission to arbitration of the subject
matter of an action may also be made by an order of court, upon
agreement
of parties, after action is commenced. 
SEC. 4389. All the rules prescribed by law in cases of
referees are applicable to arbitrators, except as herein otherwise expressed,
or except as otherwise agreed upon by the parties. 

SEC. 4390. Neither party shall have the power to revoke
the submission without the consent of the other. 
SEC. 4391. Neglect to appear. If either party neglects to appear
before the arbitrators after due notice, except in case of sickness, they may
nevertheless proceed to hear and determine the controversy upon the evi
dence which is produced before them. 
SEC. 4392. Time for award. If the time within which the award is
to be made is ﬁxed in the submission, one made after that time shall not
have any legal eﬁect, unless made upon a recommitment of the matter by
the court to which it is reported. 
SEC. 4393. When time not ﬁxed. If the time of ﬁling the award is
not ﬁxed in the submission, it must be ﬁled within one year from the time
the agreement is signed and acknowledged, unless by mutual consent the
time is prolonged.
SEC. 4394. Award-—how made. 'I‘he award must be in writing, and
shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the
agreement, or it may be inclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the
court, and not opened until the court so orders. 
SEC. 4395. Arbitration by agreement. Awards by arbitrators who
may have been chosen without complying with the provisions of this chap
ter shall nevertheless be valid and binding upon the parties thereto, as
other contracts, and may be impeached only for fraud or mistake, but such
award can only be enforced by an action.
SEC. 4396. Hearing in court.
The award shall be entered on the
docket of the court at the term to which it is returned, as an action is
entered, and shall be called up and acted upon in its order, but the court
may require actual notice to be given to either party, when it appears
proper, before proceeding to act on the award. SEC. 4397. Rejection-rehearing. The award may be rejected by
the court for any legal and suﬁicient reasons, or it may be recommitted for
a rehearing to the same arbitrators, or any others agreed upon by the par
ties, or app
ointed by the court if they cannot agree.

SEC. 4398. Force and effect oi’ award. When the award has been
adqbted, it shall be ﬁled and entered on the records, and shall have the same
l°1‘:e and effect as the verdict of a. jury.
Judgement may be entered and
exicution 1SSl19d. accordlngly.

SEC. 4399. Appeal. When an appeal is taken from such judgment,
Qopies of the submission and award, together with all aﬂidavits, shall be
ﬁled with the clerk of the supreme court.

SEC. 4400. Costs. If there is no provision in the submission respect '
ing costs, the arbitrators may apportion the same.

SEC. 4401. Rights saved. Nothing herein contained shall be construefl
to affect in any manner the control of the court over the parties, the arb1- T
trators or their award; nor to impair or affect any action upon an award, or I
upon any bond or other engagement to abide an award.

SEC. 4402. Seizure.
In an action brought against the owners of
any boat or raft to recover any debt contracted by such owner, or by the
master, agent, clerk or consignee thereof, for supplies furnished, or f9!‘
labor done in, about or on such boat or raft, or for materials furnished 111
building, repairing, ﬁtting out, furnishing or equipping the same. 0? to
recover for the non-performance of any contract relative to the transporta
tion of persons or property thereon, made by any of the persons aforemen
tioned, or to recover damages for injuries to persons or property done by
such boat or raft or the officers or crew thereof in connection _
ness, a warrant may
'th its busi
issue for the seizure of the same as herenn P1‘°V1d°d

SEC. 4403. Petition and warrant. The petition must be in writing,
sworn to, and ﬁled with the clerk or a justice of the peace, who shall there
upon issue a warrant to the proper oﬁicer, commanding him to seize the
boat or raft, its apparel, tackle, furniture and appendages, and detain the
same until released by due course of law. 
SEC. 4404. Warrant issued on Sunday. The warrant may be issued
on Sunday, if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney states in his petition that
it would be unsafe to delay proceedings. 
SEC. 4405. Service of notice. It shall be sufficient service of the
original notice in such an action to serve it on the defendant, or on the master,
agent, clerk or consignee of such boat or raft; if neither of them can be
found, it may be served by posting acopy thereof on some conspicuous
part of the same. 
SEC. 4406. Service of warrant. Any constable or marshal of any city
or town may execute the warrant, whether it issues from the oﬂice of the
clerk of the district or superior court, or of a justice. [
SEC. 4407. Who may appear. Any persons interested in the property
seized may appear for the defendant by himself, agent or attorney, and
defend the action, and no continuance shall be granted to the plaintifff while
the property is held in custody. 
SEC. 4408. Discharge by giving bond. The property seized may be
discharged at any time before ﬁnal judgment, by giving a bond with sureties,
to be approved by the oﬁlcer executing the warrant, or by the clerk or jus
tice who issued it, in a penalty double the pla.intiﬁ’s demand, conditioned
that the obligors therein will pay the amount which may be found due to
the plaintifff, together with the costs. 

SEC. 4409. Special execution. If judgment is rendered for the plain
tiff before the property is thus discharged, aspecial execution shall be issued
against it. If it has been previously discharged, the execution shall issue
against the principal and sureties in the bond without further proceedings.
SEC. 4410. Sale. The officer must ﬁrst sell the furniture or appendages
of the boat or raft, if by so doing he can satisfy the demand. If he sells the
boat or raft, he must do so to the bidder who will advance the amount
required to satisfy the execution for the lowest fractional share thereof,
unless the person defending desires a different and equally convenient mode
of sale. The oﬁicer making the sale shall execute a bill of sale to the pur
chaser for the interest sold. [C. ’73, § 3440; R., § 3708; C. ’51, § 2126.]
SEC. 4411. Fractional share sold. If a fractional share of the boat or
raft is thus sold, the urchaser shall hold such share or interest jointly with
the other owners. 

SEC. 4412. Appeal. If an appeal is taken by the defendant before the
property is discharged as above provided, the appeal bond, if one is ﬁled.
will have the same eﬁ"ect in discharging it as the bond above contemplated,
and execution shall issue against the obligors therein after judgment in the
same manner. 
SEC. 4413. Rights saved. Nothing herein contained is intended to
affect the rights of a plaintifff to sue in the same manner as though the pro
visions of this chapter had not been enacted. 
SEC. 4414. Contract alleged. In actions commenced in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, it is suﬁicient to allege the contract to
have been made with the boat or raft itself. 

SEC. 4415. Lien. Claims growing out of either of the above causes
shall be liens upon the boat or raft, its tackle and appendages, for the term
of twenty days from the time the right of action therefore accrued. 
SEC. 4416. Appearance by executing bond. The execution by or
for the owner of such boat or raft of a bond, whereby possession of the
same is obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance of such owner
as a defendant to the action. 

SEC. 4417. Petition—-grounds. The petition for the writ of habeas
corpus must state:
1. That the person in whose behalf it is sought is restrained of his lib
erty, and the person by whom and the place where he is so restrained, men
tioning the names of the parties, if known, and if unknown describing them
with as much particularity as practicable;
2. The cause or pretense of such restraint, according to the best informa
tion of the applicant; and if by virtue of any legal process, a copy thereof
must be annexed, or a satisfactory reason given for its absence;
3. That the restraint is illegal, and wherein;
4. That the legality of the imprisonment has not already been adjudged
upon a prior proceeding of the same character, to the best knowledge and
belief of the applicant:
5. Whether application for the writ has been before made to and refused
by any court 01' judge, and if so, a copy of the petition in that case must be
attached, with the reasons for the refusal, or satisfactory reasons given for
the failure to do so. 

SEC. 4418. By whom presented. The petition must be sworn to by
the person conﬁned, or by some one in his behalf, and presented to some
court or oﬂicer authorized to allow the writ. 
SEC. 4419. Writ a.l1owed—service. The writ may be allowed by the
supreme, district or superior court, or by any judge of either of those courts,
and may be served in any part of the state. 
SEC. 4420. App1ica.tion—to whom made. Application for the writ
must be made to the court or judge most convenient in point of distance to
the applicant, and the more remote court or judge, if applied to therefore,
may refuse the same unless a suﬁicient reason be stated in the petition for
not making the application to the more convenient court or a judge thereof.
SEC. 4421. Writ refused. If, from the showing of the petitioner, the
plaintifff would not be entitled to any relief, the court or judge must refuse
to allow the writ. [C."/'3, § 3453; R., ,5 3806; C.’51, § 2218.]
SEC. 4422. Reasons indorsed. If the writ is disallowed, the court or
judge shall cause the reasons thereof to be appended to the petition and
returned to the person applying for the writ. [C. ’73, § 3454; R.. § 3809; C.
’51, § 2221.
SEC. 44 3. Form of writ. If the petition is in accordance with the
foregoing requirements, and states suﬁicient grounds for the allowance of
the writ, it shall issue, and may be substantially as follows:
The State of Iowa,
To the sheriff of, etc. (or to A. . . . . . B . . . . .., as the case may be):
You are hereby commanded to have the body of C . . . . . . D . . . . . ., by you
unlawfully detained, as is alleged, before the court (or before me, or before
judge, etc., as the case may be), at......, on . . . . .. (or
immediately after being served with this writ), to be dealt with according
to law, and have you then and there this writ, with a return thereon of your
doings in the premises. [C.’73, § 3455; R., § 3807; O.’51, § 2219.]
SEC. 4424. How issued. When the writ is allowed by a court, it must
be issued by the clerk, but when by a judge, he must issue it himself, sub
scribing his name thereto. [C.‘73, § 3456; R., § 3868; C. ’51, § 2220.]
SEC. 4426. Penalty for refusing. Any judge, whether acting indi
vidually or as a member of the court, who wrongfully and willfully refuses
the allowance of the writ when properly applied for, shall forfeit to the
18:8-rty aéggrieved the sum of one thousand dollars. |'O.’73 § 3457; R., § 3810;
.’51, 2222.
SEC. 4426l Issuance on judg-e’s own motion. When any court or
judge authorized to grant the writ has evidence, from a judicial proceeding
before him, that any person within the jurisdiction of such court or oﬁicer
is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, such court or judge shall
issue the writ or cause it to be issued, on its or his own motion. 

SEC. 4427. County attorney notiﬁed. The court or ofﬁcer allowing
the writ must cause the county attorney of the proper county to be informed
thereof, and of the time and place where and when it is made returnable.

SEC. 4428. Service of writ. The writ may be served by the sheriﬁ, or
by any other person appointed in writing for that purpose by the court or
judge by whom it is issued or allowed. If served by any other than the
sheriff, he possesses the same power, and is liable to the same enalty for
a nonperformance of his duty, as though he were the sheriff. [ .’73, § 3460;
R., § 3812; O.’5l, § 2224.]
SEC. 4429. Mode. The service shall be made by leaving the original
writ with the defendant, and preserving a copy thereof on which to make
the return of service, but a failure in this respect shall not be held material.
[C.’73, §3461; R., § 3813; C.’5l, §2225.]
SEC. 4430. Defendant not found. If the defendant cannot be found,
or if he has not the plaintifff in custody, the service may be made upon any
person who has, in the same manner and with the same effect as though he
had been made defendant therein. [O.’73, § 3462; R., § 3814; G.’5l, § 2226.]
SEC. 4431. Power of officer. If the defendant conceals himself, or
refuses admittance to the person attempting to serve the writ, or if he
attempts wrongfully to carry the plaintifff out of the county or the state
after the service of the writ, the sheriff, or the person who is attempting to
serve or who has served it, is authorized to arrest the defendant and bring him,
together with the plaintifff, forthwith before the oﬂicer or court before whom
the writ is made returnable. [C. ’73, § 3463; R., § 3815; C. ’51, § 2227.]
SEC. 4432. Arrest. In order to make the arrest, the sheriff or other
person having the writ possesses the same power as is given to a sheriﬁ
for the arrest of a person charged with a felony. [C.’73, § 3464; R., § 3816;
C. ’51, §2228.]
SEC. 4433. Pla.intiﬁ' taken. If the plaintiﬁ canbe found, and if no one
appears to have the charge or custody of him, the person having the writ
may take him into custody and make return accordingly, and to get posses
sion of the plaintiﬁ’s person in such cases he possesses the same wer
as is given by the last section for the arrest of the defendant. [C.’73, 3465;
R., § 3817; C. ’51, § 2229.]
SEC. 4434. Defects of form. The writ must not be disobeyed for any
defects of form or misdescription of the plaintifff or defendant, provided
enough is stated to show the meaning and intent thereof. [C.’73, § 3466:
R., § 3822; C. ’51, § 2234.]
SEC. 4435. Penalty for eluding writ. If the defendant attempts to
elude the service of the writ, or to avoid the effect thereof by transferring
the plaintifff to another, or by concealing him, he shall, on conviction, be
imprisoned in the penitentiary or county jail not more than one year, and
ﬁned not exceeding one thousand dollars, and any person knowingly aiding
or abetting in any such act shall be subject to like punishment. [C.’73, §
3467; R., § 3841; C.’51, § 2253.]
SEC. 4436. Refusal to give copy of process. An oﬁicer refusingw
deliver a copy of any legal process by which he detains the plaintifff in cus
tody to any person who demands it and tenders the fees therefore, shall for
feit two hundred dollars to the person who demands it. [C/73, § 3468; R.,
§3842; C.'51, ' 2254.]
SEC. 4437. Preliminary writ. The court or judge to whom the appli
cation for the writ is made, if satisﬁed that the plaintifff would suffer
any irreparable injury before he could be relieved by the proceedings
above authorized, may issue an order to the sheriff, or any other person
selected instead, commanding him to bring the laintiff forthwith before
such court or judge. [C. '73, § 3469; R., § 3818; .’51, § 2230.]
SEC. 4438. Arrest of defendant. If the evidence is suﬁicient to jus
tify the arrest of the defendant for a criminal offense committed in connec
tion with the illegal detention of the plaintifff, the order must also direct the
arrest of the defendant. [C.’73, § 3470; R., § 3819; C351, § 2231.]
SEC. 4439. Execution of writ-return. The officer or person to
whom the order is directed must execute the same by bringing the defendant,
and also the plaintifff if required, before the court or judge issuing it, and
the defendant must make return to the writ in the same manner as if the
ordinary course had been pursued. [C. ’73, § 3471; R., § 3820; C. ’51, §2232.]
SEC. 4440. Examination. The defendant may also be examined and
committed, or bailed, or discharged, according to the nature of the case.
[C373, § 3472; R., § 3821; C.’51, ' 2233.]
SEC. 4441. Defect in writ. Any person served with the writ is to be
presumed to be the person to whom it is directed, although it may be directed
to him by a wrong name or description, or to another person. [C.’73, §
3473; R., § 3823; C.’51, §2235.] _
SEC. 4442. Appearance—a.nswer. Service being made in any of the
modes herein provided, the defendant must appear at the proper time and
answer the petition, but no veriﬁcation shall be required to the answer. [C.
‘T3, § 3474; R., 3824, 4182; C351, § 2236.]
SEC. 4443. Body to be produced. He must also produce the body of
the plaintifff, or show good cause for not doing so. 

SEC. 4444. Penalty—contempt. A willful failure to comply with the
above requirements will render the defendant liable to be attached for con
tempt, and to be imprisoned till he complies, and shall subject him to the
forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party thereby aggrieved. [C. ’73,
§3476; R., § 3826; C.’51, §2238.]
SEC. 4445. Attachment. Such attachment may be served by the sheriff
or any other person authorized by the court or judge, who shall also be
empowered to produce the body of the plaintifff forthwith, and has, for this
purpose, the same powers as are above conferred in similar cases. [C. ’73,
§3~l77; R., §3827; C.’51, §2239.]
SEC. 4446. Answer. The defendant in his answer must state whether
he then has, or at any time has had, the plaintifff under his control and
restraint, and if so the cause thereof. [C. ’73, §3478; R., § 3829; C/51, § 2241.]
SEC. 4447. Transfer of plaintifff’. If he has transferred him to another
person, he must state that fact, and to whom, and the time thereof, as well
its the reason or authority therefore. [C. ’73, § 3479; R., § 3830; G. ’51, § 2242.]
SEC. 4448. Copy of process. If he holds him by virtue of a. legal pro
cess or written authority, a. copy thereof must be annexed. [C. ’73, § 3480;
R-, § 3831; C. ’51, § 2243.]
SEC. 4449. Demurrer or 1-eply—t1-ial. The plaintifff may demur or
reply to the defendant’s answer, but no veriﬁcation shall be required to
the reply, and all issues joined therein shall be tried _by the judge or court.

SEC. 4450. Commitment questioned. The reply may deny the suﬂi
ciency of the testimony to justify the action of the committing magistrate,
on the trial of which issue all written testimony before such magistrate may
be given in evidence before the court or judge, in connection with any other
testimony which may then be produced. 
SEC. 4451. Action of grand jury—result of trial. But it is not per
missible to question the correctness of the action of the grand jury in ﬁnd
ing a bill of indictment, or of the trial jury in the trial of a cause, nor of a.
court or judge when lawfully acting within the scope of their authority.

SEC. 4462. Discharge. If no suﬂicient legal cause of detention is
shown, the

plaintifff must be discharged.

SEC. 4453. Plaintiﬂ’ held. Although the commitment of the plaintiﬂ
may have been irregular, if the court or judge is satisﬁed from the evidence
that he ought to be held to bail, or committed, either for the offense charged
or any other, the order may be made accordingly.

SEC. 4454. Bail increasedor diminished. The plaintiﬁ may also, in
any case, be committed, admitted to bail, or his bail bereduced or increased,
asjustice may r uire. C.’73, § 3486; R., § 3837; C. ’51, § 2249.]
SEC. 4455. P ain retained in custody. Until the suﬂiciency of
the cause of restraint is determined, the defendant may retain the plaintifff
in his custody, and may use all necessary and proper means for that pur
pose. [C. ‘T3, § 3487; R., § 3838; C. ’51, 2250.]
SEC. 4456. Right to be present waived. The iaintiff may, in writ
ing, or by attorney, waive his right to be present at tlie trial, in which case
the proceedings may be had in his absence. The w1'it will in such cases be
modiﬁed accordingly. [C.’73, § 3488; R., § 3839; C. ’51, § 2251.]
SEC. 4457. Disobedience of order. Disobedience to any order of dis
charge will subject the defendant to attachment for contempt, and also to
the forfeit-ure of one thousand dollars to the party aggrieved, besides all
dam him in consequence thereof. [C.’73, § 3489; R., §
ages sustained by
3840; C.’51, § 2252.]
SEC. 4458. Papers ﬁled. with clerk. When the proceedings are
before a judge, except when the writ is refused, all the papers in the case,
including his ﬁnal order, shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the district court of
the county wherein the ﬁnal proceedings were had, and a memorandum
thereof shall be entered by the clerk upon his judgment docket. [C. ’73, §
3490; R., § 3843; C. ’51 § 2253.]
SEC. 4459. Costs. If the plaintifff is discharged, the costs shall be
taxed to the defendant, unless he is an oﬁicer holding the plaintifff in custody
under a warrant of arrest or commitment, or under other legal process, in
which case the costs shall be taxed to the county. If the plaintifff’s appli
cation is refused, the costs shall be taxed against him, and, in the discretion
of the court, against the person who ﬁled the petition in his behalf.

SEC. 4460. What punishable as. The following acts or omissions
are contempts, and are punishable as such by any of the courts of this state,
or by any judicial oﬁicer, including justices of the peace, acting in the dis
charge of an oﬂicial duty, as hereinafter provided:
1. Contemptuous or insolent behavior toward such court while engaged
in the discharge of a judicial duty which may tend to impair the respect due
to its authority;
2. Any willful disturbance calculated to interrupt the due course of its
oﬂicial roceedings;
3. legal resistance to any order or process made or issued by it;
4. Disobedience to any subpmna issued by it and duly served, or refus
ing to be sworn or to answer as a witness;
5. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action or proceeding
pending before such court, while going to or remaining at the place where
the action or proceeding is thus pending, after being summoned, or know
ingly assisting, aiding or abetting any person in evading service of the pro
cess of such court;
6. Any other act or omission specially declared a contempt by law. 

SEC. 4461. In addition to the above, any court
of record may punish the following acts or omissions as contempts:
1. Failure to testify before a grand jury, when lawfully required to do so;
2. Assuming to be an oﬂicer, attorney or counselor of the court, and act
ing as such without authority;
3. Misbehavior as a juror, by improperly conversing with a. party
with any other person in relation to the merits of an action in which he is
acting or is to act as a juror, or receiving a communication from any per
son in respect to it without immediately disclosing the same to the court;
4. Bribing, attempting to bribe, or in any other manner improperly
inﬂuencing or attempting to inﬂuence a juror to render a verdict, or suborn
ing or attempting to suborn a witness;
5. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or ofﬁcer to any law
ful judgment, order or process of a superior court, or proceeding in any
matter in a. manner contrary to law, after it has been removed from such
tribunal, magistrate or oﬂicer. C. ’73, § 3492; R., § 2689; C151, § 1599.]
SEC. 4462. Punishment. he punishment for contempts may be by ﬁne
or imprisonment, or both, but where not otherwise specially provided, courts of
record are limited to a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, and an imprisonment not exceed
ing one day, and all other courts are limited to a ﬁne of ten dollars. 

SEC. 4463. Imprisonment. If the contempt consists in an omission as
perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may
be imprisoned until he performs it. In that case the act to be performed
must be speciﬁed in the warrant of the commitment. [C/73, § 3494; R., §
2691; C. ’51, § 1601.
SEC. 4464. en aﬁdavit necessary. Unless the contempt is com
mitted in the immediate view and presence of the court, or comes oﬁicially
to its knowledge, an aﬂidavit showing the nature of the transaction is neces
sary as a basis for further action in the premises. 

SEC. 4465. Before punishing for contempt,
unless the offender is already in the presence of the court, he must be served
personally with a rule to show cause against the punishment, and a reason
able time given him therefore; or he may be brought before the court forth
with, or on a given day, by warrant, if necessary. In either case he may, at
his option, make a written explanation of his conduct under oath, which
must be ﬁled and preserved. 

SEC. 4466. Testimony reduced to writing. Where the action of the
court is founded upon evidence given by others, such evidence must be in
writing, and be ﬁled and preserved, and if the court or judge acts upon per
sonal knowledge in the premises, a statement of the facts upon which the
order is founded must be entered on the records of the court, or be ﬁled and
preserved when the court keeps no record, and shall be a. part of the record.

SEC. 4467. When the offender is com
mitted, the warrant must state the particular facts and circumstances on
which the court acted in the premises, and whether the same was in the
knowledge of the court or was proved by witnesses.

SEC. 4468. Review by certiorari. No appeal lies from an order to
punish for a. contempt, but the proceedings may, in proper cases, be taken
to a higher court for revision by certiorari. 

SEC. 4469. Indictment. The punishment for a contempt constitutes
no bar to an indictment, but if the offender is indicted and convicted for the
same offense, the court, in passing sentence, must take into consideration
the punishment before inﬂicted. 
SEC. 4470. “Court” deﬁned. Any o‘*icer authorized to punish for
contempt is a court within the meaning of this chapter. 

SEC. 4471. By courts. The district or superior court has power to
change the names of persons. 
SEC. 4472. Petition. The applicant for such change must ﬁle his ver
iﬁed petition, stating that he is a resident of the county, and has for one
year last past been an actual resident of the state. It must also give a.
description of his person, stating his age, height, the color of his hair and
eyes, the place of his birth, and the names of his parents. 
SEC. 4473. Order. An order of the court shall thereupon be made and
entered of record, giving a. description of the applicant as -set forth in the
petition, the new name given, the time at which the change shall take effect,
which shall not be less than thirty days thereafter, and directing that notice
of such change shall be published, and in what newspaper of general circu
lation in the county. 
SEC. 4474. Publication. Previous to the time thus prescribed for the
taking effect of such change, the applicant shall cause notice thereof to be
published for four successive weeks in the newspaper directed by the court.

SEC. 4476. Proof ﬁled. The ordinary proof of such publication, being
ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk of the court, shall be by him preserved, and on
the day ﬁxed by the court, as aforesaid, the change shall be complete. 

SEC. 4476. Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace,
when not specially restricted, is coextensive with their respective counties;
but does not embrace actions for the recovery of money against actual resi
dents of any other county, except as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 4477. Amount in controversy. Within the prescribed limit, it
extends to all civil actions, except those b
the amount in controversy does not excee
equitable proceedings, where
one hundred dollars; and, by
consent of parties in writing, it may be extended to actions where the
amount claimed is not more than three hundred dollars.

SEC. 4478. Suits brought where party resides. Actions in all cases
may be brought in the township where the plaintifff, or the defendant, or one
of several defendants, resides, unless otherwise provided by law. 
SEC. 4479. Where defendant served. They may also be brought in
any other township of the same county, if actual service on one or more of
the defendants is made in such township. 
SEC. 4480. In replevin or attachment—against nonresidents.
Actions in replevin may also be brought before any'justi'ce in the county in
which the property is found. Actions aided by attachment may be brought
against nonresidcnts of the state in any county and township wherein the
property sought to be levied upon is found, and any action against such non
residents may be brought in any county wherein any defendant is served
with notice thereof.

SEC. 4481. Contracts in writing. On written contracts stipulating for
payment at a particular place, action may be brought in the township
payment was agreed to be made. 

SEC. 4482. In adjoining township. If there is no justice in the
proper township qualiﬁed or able to act, it may be commenced in any adjoin
ing township in the same county. [C. ’73, § 3514; R., § 3856; C.’51, § 2268.]
SEC. 4483. Docket furnished. The board of supervisors of each
county shall furnish to each justice of the peace thereof a well-bound blank
record book of not less than four quires, with index, suitable for a docket,
upon his certiﬁcate that the same is necessary for the business of the office.
[c.’7:, §3635.]
SEC. 4484. Extries on docket. Each justice shall keep such docket
by entering therein each action and each act done, with the proper date as
follows:
1. The title of the action;
2. A brief statement of the nature and amount of the plaintifff ‘s demand,
and defendant’s counterclaim, if any, giving date to each where dates exist;
3. The issuing of the notice and the return thereof;
4. The appearance of the parties;
5. Every adjournment, stating at whose instance and for what time;
6. The granting of a change of place of trial, and the name of the
justice to whom the case is sent;
7. The trial, and whether by the justice or by a jury;
8. The verdict and judgment;
9. The issuance of each execution, to whom delivered, the renewals, if
any, and the amount of judgment and costs to be collected thereunder;
10. The issuance of each writ of attachment or replevin or other process,
to whom delivered, and the particulars thereof;
11.
The taking of an appeal, if any;
12. The giving a transcript for ﬁling in the clerk’s oﬂice, or for setting
off against another judgment;
13.
A note of all motions made or demurrers inte
rposed, and whether
sustained or overruled. 

SEC. 4485. The parties to the action may be
the same as in the district court, and all the proceedings prescribed for that
court, so far as applicable and not herein changed, shall be pursued in jus
tices’ courts. The
powers of the court are only as herein enumerated.

SEC. 4486. How commenced. Actions in justices’ courts are com
menced by voluntary appearance or by notice.

SEC. 4487. Petition not necessary. No petition need be ﬁled except
as in this chapter required. The notice must state the cause of the action
ingeneral terms, sufﬁcient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the 
claims against him.

SEC. 4488. It ust be addressed to the defendant
by name, but if his name is unknown a description of him will be sufficient.
It must be subscribed by the plaintifff, his attorney, or the justice before
whom it is returnable.

SEC. 4489. What to state. It must state the amount for which the
plaintifff will take judgm
the time and place therein ﬁxed.
ent if the defendant fails to ap
pear and answer at

SEC. 4490. Time ﬁxed. The time ﬁxed in the notice must be not less
than ﬁve nor more than ﬁfteen days from the date, and it must be served
not less than ﬁve days previous to the trial.

SEC. 4491. The service and return thereto must
be made in the same manner as in the district court, except no service shall
publication other than is herein provided, nor shall any return
be made by
made by
another than the sheriff or a constable of the county be valid
unless sworn to. 

SEC. 4492. The defendant may at any
time pay to the oﬂicer having the notice for service, or to the justice of the
peace, the amoiint of the claim, together with the costs which have then
accrued, and thereupon the proceedings shall be dismissed. [C. ’73, § 3523;
R., §3865; C.’51, §2277.]
SEC. 4493. Appearance of parties—a.g-ent’s authority. Either of
the parties may appear in person or by agent; if by agent, he may be
required by the justice to show his authority, if Written, or prove it by
his oath or otherwise, if verbal. 

SEC. 4494. Time for appearance. The parties in all cases are enti
tled to one hour in which to appear after the time ﬁxed therefore, but neither
pa-rty is bound to wait longer for the other. 

SEC. 4495. Postponement. Upon the return day, if the justice is
actually engaged in other oﬁicial business, he may postpone proceedings in
the case until such business is ﬁnished. 
SEC. 4496. Adjournment. If from any cause the justice is unable to
attend to the trial at the time ﬁxed, or if a jury is demanded, he may
adjourn the cause for a. period not exceeding three days, nor shall he make
more than two such adjournments. 

SEC. 4497. Showing for. In case of the absence of witnesses, either
party, at his own cost, may have an adjournment, not exceeding sixty days,
upon motion supported by an aﬂidavit like that required to obtain a. contin
uance in this district court for the like cause. 

SEC. 4498. Testimony of witness taken.
Either party applying for
an adjournment must, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
testimony of any witness of the adverse party who is in attendance be then
taken in writing, to be used as a deposition on the trial of the cause.

SEC. 4499. Pleading-s. The pleadings must be substantially the same
as in the district court. They may be written or oral, but if required to be
veriﬁed they must be in writing. If oral, they must in substance be written
down by the justice in his docket.

SEC. 4500. Counter-claim. A counterclaim must be made, if at all,
at the time the answer is put in.

SEC. 4501. Written instruments ﬁled. The original, or a copy, of
all written instruments upon which a cause of action or counterclaim is
founded must be ﬁled with the claim founded thereon, or a suﬂicient reason
given for not doing so. 

SEC. 4502. Change of place of trial. Either party, before the trial
is commenced, may have the place of trial changed, upon ﬁling an aﬁidavit
that the justice is prejudiced against him, or is a near relative of the other
party, or is a material witness for the aﬂiant, or that he cannot obtain jus
tice before him; but no more than one change shall be allowed each party,
unless the justice to whom the case is transmitted is related to either party
by consanguinity or aﬁinity within the fourth degree, or is a witness, or has
been an attorney employed in the action; in either of which events a second
change may be allowed. 

SEC. 4503. When a change is allowed and the
fees for transcript are paid, said justice shall transmit all the original papers
in the case, and a transcript of his proceedings, to the next nearest jus
tice in the township, if there be any, if not, to the next nearest justice in
his county, and said justice shall proceed to try said case, and, if he cannot
try the same immediately, he shall then ﬁx a time therefore, of which all
parties shall take notice.

SEC. 4504. When change is not effected. If the
person to whom the
cause is sent is not a justice, or for any reason, though a justice, cannot act,
the court granting the change shall retain jurisdiction of the case for the
purpose of perfecting the same and sending it to the next nearest justice
who can serve.
SEC. 4505. Title to real property. If the title to real property is put
in issue by veriﬁed pleadings, or such fact manifestly appears from the
proof on the trial of the issue, the justice shall, without further proceed
ings, certify the cause and papers, with a transcript of his docket showing
the reason of such transfer, to the district court, where the same shall be
tried on the merits. No cause so transferred shall be dismissed because
the justice erred in transferring the same. 

SEC. 4506. Other causes severed. When acase is thus transferred,
if there are other causes of action not necessarily connected with the issue
of title, they may be severed, retained, and tried before the justice. 
SEC. 4507. Demand for jury. Unless one of the parties demands a
trial by jury at or before the time for joining issue, it shall be by the justice.

SEC. 4608. Dismissal of action. If the plaintifff fails to appear by
himself or agent on the return day or time ﬁxed for the trial, the justice
shall dismiss the case and render judgment against him for costs, except as
provided in the next section. 

SEC. 4609. On written instrument. When the action is founded on
an instrument in writing, purporting to have been executed by the defend
ant, calling for a certain sum as due the plaintifff, if the signature of the
defendant is not denied under oath, and if the instrument has been ﬁled with
the justice previous to the time ﬁxed for appearance, or the action is upon
an account which is veriﬁed, he may proceed with the cause, whether the
plaintifff appears or not. 

SEC. 4610. Default in such case. In the case provided for in the last section, if the defendant does not appear, judgment shall be rendered against
l§1im for the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim. 
SEC. 4611. Default in other cases. Where the pla.intiﬁ’s claim is not
founded upon such written instrument or account, and the defendant does
not appear, the justice shall proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of
the plaintifff, and render judgment thereon for the amount to which he shows
himself entitled, not exceeding the amount stated in the notice. 
SEC. 4512. Default as to counterclaim. In the cases contemplated
in the last two sections, if the defendant has previously ﬁled a counterclaim,
founded on a written instrument purporting to have been signed by the plain
tiﬁ, calling for a certain sum, or on a veriﬁed account, the justice shall allow
such counterclaim in the same manner as though the defendant had appeared,
and render judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 4513. Judgment set aside. Judgment dismissing the cause, or
by default, may be set aside by the justice at any time within six days after‘
being rendered, if the party applying therefore shows a satisfactory excuse
for his non-appearance. 

SEC. 4614. New trial. In such case a new day shall be ﬁxed for trial,
and notice thereof given to the other party or his agent.

sEC. 4616. Costs of new trial. Such orders shall be made in relation
to the additional costs thereby created as are equitable.
gasss; o. '51, §229s.]
SEC. 4616. Execution recalled.

Any execution which may_ in the
meantime have been issued shall be recalled in the same manner as m cases

SEC. 4614. Jury summoned. If a jurybedemanded, the justice shall
issue his precept to some constable of the township, directing him to sum
mon the requisite number of jurors
are required in the district court.
g the same qualiﬁcations as
ssessin

SEC. 4618. Selection of jury. The jury shall consist of six jurors,
unless a smaller number be agreed upon between the parties.
is entitled to three peremptory challenges and no more.
their number, arising from any cause, may be supp
in the manner above directed.
Each party
Any deﬁciency in
lied by summoning others
SEC. 4619. Discharge of jury. The justice may discharge the jury,
when satisﬁed that it cannot agree, and shall immediately issue a new pre
cept for summoning another, to appear at a time therein ﬁxed, not more
than three days distant, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
SEC. 4620. Motion in arrest or for new trial. No motion in arrest
of judgment to set aside a verdict, or for a new trial, can be entertained by
a justice of the peace; nor can the justice give instructions to the jury,
but must rule on objections to evidence. 

SEC. 4521. The verdict of the jury must be general. But, where there are serveral plaintifffs or defendants, it may be for or against one or more of them.

SEC. 4522. Judgment entered. Incases of dismissal, or of judgment by
confession or on the verdict of a. jury, the judgment shall be rendered and
entered u
pon the docket forthwith. In all other cases, it shall be done within
three days after the cause is submitted to the justice for ﬁnal action. 

SEC. 4523. If the sum found for either
party exceeds the jurisdiction of the justice, such party may remit the excess
and take judgment for the residue, but he can not afterwards sue for the
amount remitted. [C. ’73, § 3553; R., § 3896; C. ’51, § 2307.]
SEC. 4524. Dismissal. Instead of remitting the excess, the party obtain
ing such verdict may elect to have judgment dismissing the action, in which
case such party shall pay the costs. [(3. ’7f3§ 3554; R., § 3897; C/51, § 2308.]
SEC. 4526. Mutual judgments set 0ﬁ'. Mutual judgments between the
same parties, rendered by the same or different justices, may be set off against
each other. [C.’73, 3555; R., § 3898; C. ’51, 2309.]
SEC. 4626. As in district court. When rendered by the same court,
the same course shall be pursued as is prescribed in the district court. [O. ’73,
§3556; R., § 3899; C.’51, § 2310.]
SEC. 4627. When by diiferent justices. If the judgment proposed to
be set off was rendered by another justice, the party offering it must obtain
a transcript thereof, with a. certiﬁcate of such justice indorsed thereon, stat
ing that no appea.-1 has been taken, and that the transcript was obtained for
the urpose of being used as a counterclaim in that case. [C.’73, § 3557;
R., 3900; C.’51, §2311.]
SEC. 4528. Transcripts. Such transcri t shall not be given until the
time for taking an appeal has elapsed. 

SEC. 4529. Docket entry. The justice giving the transcript shall make
an entry of the fact in his docket, and all other proceedings in his court
shall thenceforth be stayed. [C. ’73, § 3559; R., § 3902; C. ’51, § 2313.]
SEC. 4530. Execution for balance. The transcript being presented
to the justice who has rendered a judgment between the same parties, if
execution has not been issued thereon, he shall strike a balance between
the judgments and issue execution for such balance. [C.’73, §3560; R., §
3903; C.’51, § 2314.]
SEC. 4531. Execution on transcript. If execution has issued, he shall
also issue execution on the transcript ﬁled with him, and deliver it to the
oﬂicer who has the other execution. C. ’73, § 3561; R., § 3904; C.’51, § 2315.]
SEC. 4532. Executions set o . Such oﬁicer shall treat the lesser
execution as so much cash collected on the larger, and proceed to collect
the balance. [C.’73, § 3562; R., § 3905; C. ’51, § 2316.]
SEC. 4533. Costs in case of set-oﬁ‘. The above rules as to setting off
judgments between the same parties are subject to the same prohibition as
to setting oif costs, when the effect will be to leave an insufficient amount of
money actually collected to satisfy the costs of both judgments, as is con
tained in the rules of proceedings in the district court. [C. ’73, § 3563; R., §
3906; G. ’51, § 2317.]
See§4040.
SEC. 4534. Transcript ﬁled. When the judgment of another justice
is thus allowed to be set off, the transcript thereof shall be ﬁled among the
papers of the case in which it is to be used, and the proper entry made in
the just-ice’s docket. [C.’73, § 3564; R., §3907; C.’51, § 2318.]
SEC. 4535. Refusal to allow set-oﬂ’ of judgment. If the justice
refuses the judgment as a set-oﬁ, he shall so certify on the transcript and
return it to the party who offered it. When ﬁled in the oﬂice of the justice
who gave it, proceedings may be had by him in the same manner as though
no transcri t had been certiﬁed. [C.’73, § 3565; R., § 3908; C. '51, § 2319.]
SEC. 45 6. Judgment by confession. A judgment by confession,
Without action, may be entered by a justice of the peace for an amount
within his jurisdiction, and the provisions of law regulating judgments by
confessions in courts of record shall, so far as may be, apply to confessions
of judgment before a justice of the peace, and the justice shall enter such
judgment on his docket, and may issue execution thereon as in other cases.
[C.’73, § 3566; R., § 3397, 3401; C.’51, § 1837, 1841.]
SEC. 4537. Transcripts ﬂledin c1erk’s ofﬁce. A party obtaining a.
judgment in a justice’s court may cause a transcript thereof to be certiﬁed
to the oﬁice of the clerk of the district court in the county. 

SEC. 4538. Eﬁect. The clerk shall ﬁle the transcript as soon as
received, and enter a memorandum thereof and the date of ﬁling in the
judgment docket and lien index, and from such entry it shall be treated in
all respects and in its enforcement as a judgment obtained in the district
court. No execution shall issue from the justice ‘s court after the ﬁling of
such transcript. 

SEC. 4639. Executions. Executions for the enforcement of judg
ments in a justice’s court may be issued, as provided in this chapter, at any
time within ten years from the entry of the judgment, but not afterward.

SEC. 4640. Form. Such execution shall be against the goods and
chattels of the defendant therein, and shall be directed to any constable of
the county. 

SEC. 4641. Return. It must be dated on the day
and made returnable within thirty days thereafter.
3913; C. '51, §2324.]
SEC. 4642. Renewable. If not satisﬁed when returned, it may be
renewed from time to time by an indorsement thereon to that effect, signed
by the justice, and dated of the date of such renewal. [C.’73, § 3572; R., §
3914; C. ’:'>1, § 2325.]
SEC. 4643. For thirty days. The indorsement must state the amount
paid thereon, and shall continue the execution in full force for thirty days
from the date of renewal. [C. ’73, § 3573; R., § 3915; C.’51, § 2326.]
SEC. 4644. Garnishment. Garnishment proceedings under execution
shall be the same as in the district court, except, upon return of the gar
nishment being made to the justice who issued the execution, he shall docket

the Code of "73 was enacted, but not to cases
where such time had expired: Woods v. Havi
land, 59-476.
In general, see Q 3960 and notes.
on which it is issued,
a cause, ﬁx a time, and cite the garnishee then to appear and answer.
SEC. 4645. Property sold. Pro
may be retained by the oﬁicer and sold after renewal.

SEC. 4646. Appeal. Any person aggrieved by the ﬁnal judgment of a
justice may appeal therefrom to the district or a superior court in the county,
at his option, in the manner )I‘0Vld8d by law.

SEC. 4547. Amount in controversy. No such appeal shall be allowed
when the amount in controversy does not exceed twenty-ﬁve dollars.

SEC. 4548. The appeal must be perfected within twenty days after the rendeition of the judgment.

SEC. 4549. By clerk. If within twenty days the appellant is prepared
totake his appeal, and is prevented only by the absence or death of the jus
tice, or his inability to act, he may ap
the appeal may be taken for the al
3919; o.*:'>1, 2330.]
SEC. 456 .
ply to the clerk of the court to which
owance thereof.
[C. ’73, § 3577; R., §
How secured. Such application shall be founded on an
aﬂidavit, stating the amount and nature of the judgment, and the time of
the rendition thereof, as nearly as practicable, and the reason why he thus
ap lies. G.’78, § 3578; R., § 3920; C. ’51, § 2331.]
SEC. 4 51. Action of clerk. The clerk has thereupon the same power
to act in the premises as the justice would have had. He may require the
books and papers of the justice to be delivered to him, for which purpose he
may issue a precept to the sheriff to that effect, if necessary, and may make
out and ﬁle the transcript. After this he shall return to the oiﬁce of the
justice of the peace all the papers proper to be kept by the justice. [C. ’73,
§3oT9; R., § 39:31; C.’51, § 2332.]
SEC. 4552. Form of bond. The appeal is not perfected until a bond in
the following form, or its equivalent, is taken and ﬁled in the office of the
justice or clerk as above provided, in an amount suﬂicient to secure the judg
ment and costs of appeal:
The undersigned acknowledge ourselves indebted to. . . . . .in the sum of
. . . . .dollars, upon the following conditions: Whereas. . . . . .has appealed
from the judgment of . . . . .., a justice of the peace, in an action between
. . . . ..as plaintifff, and. . . . . .defendant:
Now, if said appellant pays whatever amount is legally adjudged against
him in the further progress of this cause, then this bond to be void.
Approved. A . . . . . .B . . . . .., principal.
E . . . . ..F . . . . .., justice. C . . . . ..D . . . . .., surety.
If the judgment is aﬂirmed, or if on a new trial the appellee recovers, or
if the appeal is withdrawn or dismissed, judgment shall be rendered against
ghe principal and surety on said bond. 

SEC. 4658. Proceedings suspended. Upon the appeal being per
fected, all further proceedings in that court shall be suspended, and the
case will be in the court to which the appeal is taken. [C. ’73, § 3581, 3584;
R., § 3923, 3926; C.’51, § 2334, 2337.]
SEC. 4654. Execution recalled. If, in the meantime, an execution
has been issued, the justice shall give the appellant a certiﬁcate that an
appeal has been taken and perfected. Upon that certiﬁcate being presented
to the constable, he shall cease further action, and release any property
taken in execution. [C. ’73, § 3582; R., §3924; O. ’51, § 2335.]
SEC. 4555. Papers ﬁled. Upon the appeal being perfected, the justice
shall ﬁle in the office of the clerk of the court to which it is taken all the
original papers relating
in his docket.

SEC. 4556. Return amended. The proper court may, by rule, compel the justice to approve an appeal bond, or make or amend his return
according to law.

SEC. 4557. Mistakes corrected.

Where an omission or mistake has
been made by the justice in his docket entries, and that fact is made unques
tionable, the court to which the appeal is taken may correct the mistake or
supply the omission, or direct the justice to do so.

SEC. 4558. If an appeal is perfected ten days
before the next term of the court to which it is taken, the justice’s return
must be made at least ﬁve days before that term. All such cases must be
tried when reached, unless continued for cause.

SEC. 4559. Aﬁlrma.nce—trial. If the appellant fails to pay the
docket fee and have the case docketed by noon of the second day of the
term at which the appeal should properly come on for trial, unless time is
extended by the court, the appellee may do so, and have the judgment
below aﬂirmed, or have the case set down for trial on its merits, as he may
elect. If the ap
pellant, before noon of the next day after an order of
afﬁrmance has been granted, shall appear and make a sufficient showin
gof
merits and proper excuse for his default, and pay to the clerk the
docket fee, the court in its discretion may set aside the order of affirm
ance, and the cause shall stand for trial at that term, unless appellee asks
a continuance, and the clerk shall pay over to the appellee the docket fee.
but, if the appeal at the election of appellee is set down for trial on its
merits, and the trial has commenced, the foregoing provision shall not apply.
[Rules of Practice, §4.]
SEC. 4560. Notice of appeal. If an appeal is not perfected on the day on
which judgment is rendered, written notice thereof must be served on the
appellee or his agent, at least ten days before the next term of the court to
which the app
eal is taken, if ten days intervene, or the action, on motion of
pellee, shall be continued at the cost of the appellant. 

SEC. 4561. How served. Such notice may be served like the original
notice, and if the appellee or his agent has no
place of residence in the
county, it may be served by being left with the justice. [C. ’73, § 3589; R., §
3931; 0951, § 2342.]
SEC. 4562. Trial of appeal. An appeal brings up the action for trial
on the merits alone. All errors, irre
gularities and illegalities are to be dis
regarded under such circumstances, if the action might have been
outed in the court to which the appeal is taken.

SEC. 4563. No new demand or counterclaim can be made upon the appeal, unless by mutual consent.

SEC. 4664. Costs of appeal. The appellant must pay the costs of the
appeal, unless he obtains a more favorable judgment than that from which
he appealed. 

SEC. 4565. Appellant may offer to confess judgment for a certain amount, with costs, and if the final amount recovered be less favorable to the appellee than such offer, he shall pay
the costs of appeal. 

SEC. 4566. Judgment on appeal bond. Any judgment on the ap
against the appellant shall be entered
eal
against him and his sureties, and s all
recite the order of liability as principal and surety. 

SEC. 4567. If an appeal is taken for delay, the
court to which it is taken may award such damages, not exceeding ten per
cent. on the amount of the judgment below, as may seem right. 

SEC. 4568. Appeal from defa.u.1t—p1ead.ings. If the appeal is taken
from a judgment by default, the defendant may ﬁle, before noon of the second
day of the term at which the appeal is triable, in the court to which it is
taken, and the plaintiﬁ reply thereto as in other cases, any pleadings neces
sary to properly set forth any defense he may have to the action.
In such
case the costs of the trial before the justice shall be taxed to the defendant.

SEC. 4669. Writs of error-when allowed. Any person aggrieved
by an erroneous decision in a. matter
of law or other illegality in the pro
ceedings of a justice of the peace may, within twenty days after the ﬁnal
decision is made, remove the same, or so much thereof as is necessary, for
correction into the courtto which an appeal from suchjustice mightbe taken.

SEC. 4570. The basis oi the proceedings is an aﬂi
davit ﬁled in the oﬁice of the clerk, setting forth the errors complained of,
and must be ﬁled in the same time, and the notice must be the same as in
case of appeal.

SEC. 4571. Writ. The clerk shall thereupon issue an order command
ing the just-ice to certify the record and rocecdings, so far as they relate to
the facts stated in the aﬂidavit. 

SEC. 4572.  copy of the aﬂidavit shall accompany
the order and be served upon the justice, who shall, with the
least practicable delay, make the return required. 

SEC. 4673. Bond. All proceedings in the justice ’s court subsequent to
judgment may be stayed by a bond, entered into like that required in cases
of appeals, and on which judgment shall be entered against the principal
and surety in like manner and under like circumstances.

SEC. 4574. Amended return. The court may compel a. return to the
Writ, or an amended return when the ﬁrst is not full and complete.

SEC. 4575. Hearing-d.ismissa1—a.ﬁ.rma.nce.
The action shall stand
for hearing on the writ of error at the ﬁrst term after due not-ice thereof
has been given. In case the party suing out the writ fails to have the
return of the justice docketed before noon of the second day of the term at
which the case should properly come on for hearing on such writ of error,
and to pay the clerk ’s fees therefore, the appellee, unless time is extended
by the court, may cause the action to be docketed and the writ of error dis
missed, and, if he so elect, the judgment below affirmed; and the provisions
of the section relating to docketing of appeals by appellee shall be appli
cable to roceedings under Writs of error, so far as may be.
SEC. 6'76. Judgment. The court may render ﬁnal judgment, or it may
remand the cause to the justice for a new trial, or such further proceedings
as shall be deemed proper, and prescribe the notice necessary to bring the
parties again before the justice.

SEC. 4577. Restitution. If the court renders a ﬁnal judgment revers
ing the judgment of the justice of the peace, after such judgment has been
collected in whole or in part, it may award restitution, with interest, and
issue execution accordingly, or it may remand the cause to the justice for
this purpose. [C. '73, § 3604; R., § 3945; C. ’51, § 2356.]
SEC. 4678. Beplevin. The proceedings and verdict in replevin shall
be the same as are prescribed in such cases in the district court, except as
modiﬁed in this chapter. [C. ’73, § 3605; R., § 3946; C. ’5l, § 2357.]
SEC. 4679. Attachment. Proceedings in attachment, except as modi
ﬁed in this chapter, shall be the same as in the district court, the justice
performing the duties with reference thereto which are required of the
clerk of that court. The petition must be veriﬁed, and claim more than ﬁve
dollars, and, if a. less sum is recovered, the laintiff shall pay all the costs
of the attachment. 

SEC. 4580. Answers of garnishee. The constable has the same
power to administer an oath to the garnishee in attachment or on execution,
and to take his answer, as is given to the sheriﬁ in like cases in the district
court. C. ’73, 3607; R., 3948; C. ’51, § 2360.]
SEC. 581. Appearance. Garnishees may be required to appear and
answer at the time ﬁxed for the appearance of the parties to the action, and
the conduct of the same shall be governed by the law relating to garnish
ments under attachments in the district court. 

SEC. 4682. Attachment without personal service. In actions in
which an attachment is sought, if it is made to appear by aﬁidavit that
personal service cannot be had on the defendant within the state, the justice,
upon the return day, unless the defendant appear, shall make an order ﬁx
ing the day for the trial, not less than sixty days thereafter, and requiring
notice to be given by any constable as provided in the next section. 

SEC. 4583. Notice by posting. Upon such order being made, at least
sixty days’ notice of the pendency of such action shall be given by posting
up written or printed notices in three public
places in the township where
the action was commenced, which shall have the effect of a service by pub
lication in the district court, and the justice shall proceed to hear the cause
upon the day speciﬁed for that purpose; but no bond shall be required of
the laintiff after judgment as may be in the district court. 

SEC. 4584. Records deposited with successor. Every justice of the
peace, upon the expiration of his term of oﬁice, must deposit with his suc
cessor his oﬁicial docket, as well as those of his predecessors which may be
in his custody, there to be kept as public records. All his oﬁicial papers
§hal_l7a]lso be turned over to his successor. 

SEC. 4585. Or county auditor. If his ofﬁce becomes vacant before
his successor is elected, the said docket and papers shall be placed in the
hands of the county auditor, and by him turned over to his successor when
elected and qualiﬁed. [C. ’73, § 3626; R., § 3968; C. '51, § 2378.]
SEC. 4686. Execution or transcript by successor. The justice with
whom the docket of his predecessor is thus deposited may issue or renew
execution on or give a transcript of any judgment there entered, in the
same manner and with like effect as the justice who rendered the judgment
might have done; and in case of the death, absence or inability to act of any
justice, or the vacation of the oﬂice from any cause,‘ execution may be issued
from the docket of said justice, or transcript given therefrom, by any other
justice in said township, with like eﬂfect as might have been done by the
justice who rendered the judgment. 

SEC. 4687. Successor—how determined. When two or more justices
are equally entitled to be held the successor in oﬁice of any justice, the
county auditor shall determine by lot which is, and certify accordingly;
which certiﬁcate shall be in duplicate, one copy of which shall be ﬁled in
the oﬂice of such auditor, and the other given to such successor. [C. ’73, §
8628; R., § 3970-1; C. ’51, § 2380-1.]
SEC. 4588. Interchange. In case of sickness or other disability or
absence of a justice at the time ﬁxed for a trial of a cause or other proceed
ing, any other justice of the township may, at his request, attend and
transact the business for him without any transfer to another oﬂice. The
entries shall be made in the docket of the justice at whose oﬂice the busi
ness is transacted, and the same eﬁect shall be given to the proceedings as
though no such interchange of ofﬁcial service had taken place. 

SEC. 4589. Special constables. Any justice of the peace in writing may
specially appoint any person of suitable age to perform any particular duty
properly devolving upon a constable, and for that particular purpose the
appoint/ce shall be subject to the same obligations and receive the same
fees. If such person is appointed to serve an attachment, execution, or
order for the delivery of property, he shall, before levying upon the same,
execute a bond to the state in a penal sum of not less than two hundred
dollars, to be ﬁxed by the justice, with one or more freeholders as sureties,
to be approved by and ﬁled with the justice making the appointment, and the
usual otﬁcial oath shall be indorsed thereon and signed. For any breach of
such bond, any person injured thereby may bring action thereon in his own
name, and recover the same damages as upon a constab1e’s bond in like
cases. 

SEC. 4690. No process to another county. No process can issue
from a justice’s court into another county, except when specially author
ized. 

SEC. 4691. Sheriff and constable. The constable is the proper exec
utive oﬁicer in a justices court, but the sheriff may perform any of the
duties required of him. The powers and duties of the sheriff in relation to
the business of the district court, so far as the same are applicable and not
modiﬁed by statute, devolve upon the constable in relation to the justice’s
court. 

SEC. 4692. Justice his own clerk. The justice shall be his own clerk
and perform the duty of both judge and clerk. 

SEC. 4698. Jury fees. Jury fees in justices’ courts shall be taxed as
part of the costs. [C. '73, § 3811; R., § 4154; C.’51, § 2545.]
SEC. 4694. Powers of successor. When the term of office of a justice
of the peace expires, his successor may issue execution or renew execution
in the same manner and under the same circumstances as the former justice
might have done if his term of oﬂice had not expired. [C. ’73, § 3634; R., §
3977; C.’51, § 2387.] SEC. 4696. Report of unclaimed witness fees. Each justice of the
peace shall, on the ﬁrst Monday in January and July each year, pay into the
county treasury for the use of the county all fees of whatsoever kind in his
hands at the date of payment and still unclaimed, and shall take from the
treasurer duplicate receipts therefore, giving the title of the cause, the names
of the witnesses, jurors, oﬁicers or other persons, and the amount each one
is entitled to receive, one of which he shall ﬁle with the county auditor,wh0
shall charge the amount thereof to the treasurer as so much county revenue,
and enter the same upon the proper records as a claim allowed, and, on
demand by the persons entitled to said fees, shall issue county orders for the
amount due each person, respectively. [19 G. A., ch. 151, § 1; C. ’73, § 3815.]
SEC. 4696. Penalty. Any failure to pay over to the county treasurer
witness fees, as above provided, is a misdemeanor, and shall be prosecuted
as provided by law. [C.’73, § 3816; R., § 352.]
SEC. 4697. Fees of justice. Justices of the peace shall be entitled to
charge and receive the following fees:
1. For docketing each case in any action, except in garnishment pro
ceedings, ﬁfty cents;
2. For issuing each original notice, ﬁfty cents;
3. For issuing attachment or order for the delivery of property, twenty~
ﬁve cents;
4. For drawing and approving bond, when required in any case, ﬁfty
cents;
5. For entering judgment by confession after action brought, ﬁfty cents;
d 6. For entering judgment by confession before action brought, one
ollar;
T. For entering judgment by default, or on a plea of guilty, ﬁfty cents;
8. For entering judgment when contested, ﬁfty cents;
9. For additional when a jury is called, one dollar;
10. For issuing venire for jury, twenty-ﬁve cents;
11. For each subpoena in civil action, when demanded, twenty-ﬁve cents;
12. For each oath or aﬁirmation, except in proceedings connected with
actions before him, ﬁve cents;
13. For each continuance at the request of either party, ﬁfty cents;
14. For setting aside each judgment by default, ﬁfty cents;
15. For each information and aﬁidavit, ﬁfty cents;
16. For each execution, renewal of execution, or warrant of any kind,
ﬁfty cents;
17. For each bond or recognition, ﬁfty cents;
18. For each mittimus or order of discharge, ﬁfty cents;
19. For each oﬂicial certiﬁcate or acknowledgment, twenty-ﬁve cents;
20. For making and certifyingtranscript, ﬁfty cents;
21.
tion thereof, one dollar;
22.
For trial of all actions, civil or criminal, for each six hours or frac
For all money collected and paid over without action, ﬁve per cent;
paid over after action brought without
and for all money collected and
judgment, two per cent., which shall be added to the costs. 

SEC. 4598. Constables shall be entitled to charge
1. For serving any notice or civil process, on each person named
therein, ﬁfty cents;
2. For copy thereof when required, ten cents;
3. For serving attachment or order for the delivery of property, ﬁfty
cents;
4. For traveling fees, going and returning by the nearest traveled
route, per mile, ﬁve cents;
For summoning a jury, including mileage, one dollar;
5
6.
For attending the same on trial, for each calendar day, one dollar;
For advertising and selling property, seventy-ﬁve cents;
7. For serving execution, besides mileage, ﬁfty cents;
8
9
14.
one dollar;
15.
For advertising without selling, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For return of execution when no levy is made, ten cents;
For serving each subpoena, besides mileage, ﬁfteen cents;
For posting up each notice required by law, ﬁfteen cents;
For serving each warrant of any kind, seventy-ﬁve cents;
For attending each trial in a criminal case, for eacli calendar day,
For serving each mittimus or order of release, besides mileage,
thirty cents;
16. For serving a warrant for the seizure of intoxicating liquors and
any other matter connected therewith, the same compensation as allowed a
sheriff for a like service;
17.
For all money collected on execution and
paid over, except costs,
ﬁve per cent., which shall constitute part of the costs. 

SEC. 4599. In criminal cases.
The fees contemplated in the two
preceding sections, in criminal cases, shall be audited and
paid out of the
county treasury in any case where the prosecution fails, or where such fees
cannot be made from the person liable to pay the same, the facts being cer
tiﬁed by the justice and veriﬁed by affidavit. 
.
SEC. 4600. Accounting for fees. Justices of the peace and constables
shall pay into the county treasury all fees collected in each year in excess of
the following sums: In townships having a population of thirty thousand
or more, justices, ﬁfteen hundred dollars, constables, twelve _hundred dollars;
those having a. population of twenty thousand and under thirty, justices,
twelve hundred dollars, constables, one thousand dollars; those having a
population of ten thousand and under twenty, justices, one thousand dol
lars, constables, eight hundred dollars; those having a population of four
thousand and under ten, justices, eight hundred dollars, constables, six hun
dred dollars; in all other townships, justices, six hundred dollars, consta
bles, ﬁve hundred dollars. Each of said oﬂicers, except when the fees
charged or taxed do not exceed one hundred and ﬁfty dollars for justices of
the peace, and one hundred dollars for constables shall, under oath, make
quarterly reports to the board of supervisors, upon blanks furnished by the
county auditor, of all fees charged or taxed and collected, the last quarterly
report to be an annual report, including therein a summary of the three
preceding ones, which last report shall also show that all fees and ﬁnes col
lectible by law have been received, such annual report to be made on the
ﬁrst Monday in January, and before the annual settlement shall be made,
and accompanied with the receipts of the treasurer for all money paid in to
him. When the fees charged or taxed are less than the amount heretofore
stated, annual reports only need be made. 

SEC. 4601. Every human being of sufficient capacity to understand the obligation of an oath is a competent witness in all cases, except as otherwise declared.

SEC. 4602. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclu
sion of testimony may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its credi
bility.

SEC. 4603. No person offered as a witness in any action or
proceeding in any court, or before any oﬂicer acting judicially, shall be
excluded by reason of his interest in the event of the action or proceeding,
or because he is a party thereto, except as provided in this chapter. 

SEC. 4604. Transaction with person since deceased. No party to
any action or proceeding, nor any person interested in the event thereof,
nor any person from, through or under whom any such party or interested
person derives any interest or title by assignment or otherwise, and no hus
band or wife of any said party or person, shall be examined as a witness in
regard to any personal transaction or communication between such witness
and a person at the commencement of such examination deceased, insane or
lunatic, against the executor, administrator, heir at law, next of kin, assignee,
legatee, devisee or survivor of such deceased person,or the assignee or guard
ian of such insane person or lunatic. But this prohibition shall not extend
to any transaction or communication as to which any such executor, adminis
t1'ator,heir at law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or guardian
shall be examined on his own behalf, or as to which the testimony of such
deceased or insane person or lunatic shall be given in evidence. .

SEC. 4605. Depositions taken conditionally. Any person may have
his own deposition, or that of any other person, read in evidence in all cases
where his evidence would be incompetent by the provisions of the preced
ing section, by causing it to be taken, either before or after action is brought,
during the lifetime or sanity of the person against whose executor, heir or
other representative the same is to be used, if such deposition shall have been
taken and ﬁled ten days prior to the death or insanity of such person. If
after action is brought, such deposition may be taken in the usual manner;
if before, tpen the same may be taken do bene ease, as provided by law. [C.
’73, § 36-l0.
SEC. 4606. Husband or wife as witness. Neither the husband nor
wife shall in any case be a witness against the other, except in a criminal
prosecutionfor a crime committed one against the other, or in a civil action
or proceeding one against the other, or in a civil action by one against a
third party for alienating the affections of the other; but in all civil and
criminal cases they may be witnesses for each other.

SEC. 4607. Communications between husband and wife.
Neither
husband nor wife can be examined in any case as to any communication
made by the one to the other while married, nor shall they, after the marriage
relation ceases, be permitted to reveal in testimony any such communication
made while the marriage subsisted. 

SEC. 4608. Communications in professional conﬁdence. No practicing attorney, counselor, physician, surgeon, or the stenographer or con
ﬁdential clerk of any person, who obtains such information by reason
of his employment, minister of the gospel or priest of any denomination
shall be allowed, in giving testimony, to disclose any conﬁdential communi
cation properly intrusted to him in his professional capacity, and necessary
and proper to enable him to discharge the functions of his oﬁice according
to the usual course of practice or discipline. Such prohibition shall not apply
to cases where the party in whose favor the same is made waives the rights
conferred. 

SEC. 4609. Public oﬁicers. A public officer cannot be examined as to
communications made to him in official conﬁdence, when the public interests
would suffer by the disclosure.
SEC. 4610. Judge as witness.

The judge of the court is a compe
tent
witness for either party, and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such case
it is in his discretion to order the trial to be postponed or suspended, and.
to take place before another judge. [(3. ’73, § 3645; R., § 4005; C.’51, § 2406.]
SEC. 4611. Civil liability. No witness is excused from answering a
question upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subjected to a civil
liability. [C.’73, §3646; R., § 3988; C.’51, § 2396.]
SEC. 4612. Criminating questions. But when the matter sought to be
elicited would tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him to public
ignominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as provided in the next section. But in prosecutions against gaming, betting, lotteries, dealing in
options, and keeping gambling houses, or rooms for illegal use or disposal
of intoxicating liquors, no witness shall be excused from giving testimony
upon the ground that his testimony would tend to render him criminally liable
or expose him to public ignominy; but any matter so elicited shall not be
used against him, and said witness shall not be prosecuted for any crime
connected with or growing out of the act on which the prosecution is based in
the cause in which his evidence is used for the state, under the provisions
of this section. 

SEC. 4613. A witness may be interrogated as to his previous conviction for a felony. But no other proof is competent, except the record thereof.

SEC. 4614. Moral character. The general moral character of a wit
ness may be proved for the purpose of testing his credibility. .

SEC. 4615. Whole of a. writing or conversation. When part of an
act, declaration, conversation or writing is given in evidence by one party,
the whole on the same subject may be inquired into by the other; thus, when
a letter is read, all other letters on the same subject between the same
parties may be given. And when a detached act, declaration, conversation
or writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation or
writing which is necessary to make it fully
understood, or to explain the
same, may also be given in-evidence. 

SEC. 4616. When an instrument consists
partly of written and partly of printed form, the former controls the latter,

if the two are inconsistent.

SEC. 4617. Understanding of parties to agreement. When the terms
oi’ an agreement have been intended in a different sense by the parties to it,
that sense is to prevail against either party in which he had reason to suppose the other understood it. 

SEC. 4618. Historical and scientiﬁc works. Historical works, books
of science or art, and published maps or charts, when made by persons
indifferent between the parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of general
notoriety or interest therein stated. 

SEC. 4619. When a subscribing witness denies
or does not recollect the execution of the instrument to which his name is
subscribed as such witness, its execution may be proved by other evidence.

SEC. 4620. Handwriting. Evidence respecting handwriting may be
given by experts, by comparison, or by comparison by the jury, with writ
ings of the same person which are proved to be genuine.

SEC. 4621. Every private writ
ing, except a. last will and testament, after being acknowledged or
proved
and certiﬁed in the manner prescribed for the proof or acknowledgment of
conveyances of real property, may be read in evidence without further
proof.

SEC. 4622. Entries by deceased person. The entries and other writ
ings of a. person deceased, who was in a. position to know the facts therein
stated, made at or near the time of the transaction, are presumptive evidence
of such facts, when the entry was made against the interest of the person so
making it, or when made in a professional capacity or in the ordinary course
of professional conduct, or when made in the performance of a duty specially
enjoined by law.

SEC. 4623.
Books of account-—when admissible.
Books of account
containing charges by one party against the other, made in the ordinary
course of business, are receivable in evidence only under the following cir
cumstances, subject to all just exceptions as to their credibility:
1. They must show a continuous dealing with persons generally, or sev
eral items of charge at diﬁerent times against the other party in the same
book or set of books;
2. It must be shown by the party’s oath, or otherwise, that they are his
books of original entries;
3. It must be shown in like manner that the charges were made at or
near the time of the transactions therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons
appear for not making such proof;
4. The charges must also be veriﬁed by
the party or clerk who made
the entries, to the effect that they believe them just and true, or a suﬁicient
reason must be given why such veriﬁcation is not made.

SEC. 4624. Notarial certiﬁcate of protest. The usual protest of a
notary public, without proof of his signature or notarial seal, is prima f¢1C’i-8
evidence of what it recites concerning the dishonor, and notice thereof, of
a bill of exchange or promissory note, and a copy from his record, properly
certiﬁed by him, shall receive such faith and credit as it is entitled to by
the law and custom of merchants.

SEC. 4625. Except when otherwise specially provided, no evidence of the following enumerated contracts is competent, unless it be in writing and signed by the party charged or by his authorized agent:
1. Those in relation to the sale of personal property, when no part of
the property is delivered and no part of the price is paid;
2. Those made in consideration of marriage;
3. Those wherein one person promises to answer for the debt, default
or miscarriage of another, including promises by executors to pay the debt
of the decedent ﬁrom their own estate;
4. Those for the creation or transfer of any interest in lands, except
leases for a term not exceeding one year;
5. Those that are not to be performed within one year from the making
thereof.

SEC. 4626. The provisions of the ﬁrst subdivision of the
preceding section do not apply when the article of
rsonal property sold
is not at the time of the contract owned by the ven or and ready for deliv
ery, but labor, skill or money is necessarily to be expended in producing or
procuring the same; nor do those of the fourth subdivision apply where the
purchase money, or any portion thereof, has been received by the vendor,
or when the vendee, with the actual or implied consent of the vendor, has
taken and held possession thereof under and by virtue of the contract, or
when there is any other circumstance which, by the law heretofore in force,
would have taken the case out of the statute of frauds.

SEC. 4627. When contract not denied in the pleadings. The above
regulations, relating merely to the proof of contracts, shall not prevent the
enforcement of those not denied in the pleadings, except in cases when the
contract is sought to be enforced, or damages recovered for the breach
thereof, against some person other than him who made it.

SEC. 4628. The oral evidence of the maker
against whom the unwritten CO11tra.<_'t is sought to be enforced shall be com
petent to establish the same.

SEC. 4629. Instruments affecting real estate.
Every instrument in
Writing affecting real estate, or the adoption of minors, which is acknowl
edged or
proved and certiﬁed as required, may be read in evidence without
further proof.

SEC. 4630. Record or certiﬁed copy. When the recording of any
instrument in the oﬂice of any public oﬂicer is authorized by law, the record
of such instrument, or a duly authenticated copy thereof, is competent evi
dence whenever, by the party
’s own oath or otherwise, the original is shown
to be lost, or not belonging to the party wishing to use the same, nor within
his control.
In such case, it is no objection to the record that no oﬁicial seal is
appended to the recorded acknowledgment thereof, if, when the acknowl
edgment purports to have been taken by an officer having an oﬁicial seal,
there is a statement in the certiﬁcate of acknowledgment that the same is
made under his hand and seal of oﬂice, and the record shows, by a scroll or
otherwise, that there was such a seal, which will be presumptive evidence
that it was attached to the original certiﬁcate

SEC. 4631. The provisions of the preceding section
are intended to apply to all instruments heretofore recorded, as well as
those hereafter to be recorded.

SEC. 4632. Neither the certiﬁcate, the record nor
the transcript thereof is conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated. 

SEC. 4633. Recording United States and state patents. United States
and state patents for lands in the state, that have been or may be recorded
in the recorder ’s oﬁice of the county in which the lands are situated, shall
be matters of record, and copies thereof, certiﬁed to by the recorder, may
be received and read in evidence in all courts, with like eﬁect as other certi
ﬁed copies of original papers recorded in his oﬂice, and such patents may
be recorded without an acknowledgment. [16 G. A., ch. 10.]
SEC. 4634. Field-notes and plats. A copy of the ﬁeld-notes of any
surveyor, or a plat made by him and certiﬁed under oath as correct, may be
received as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of a tract of land, or
any other fact the ascertainment of which requires the exercise of scientiﬁc
skill or calculation only. [C. ’73, § 3701; R., § 4046; C. '51, § 2431.]
sEC. 4635. Copies of records and entries in public offices. Duly
certiﬁed copies of all records and entries or papers belonging to any public
office, or by authority of law ﬁled to be kept therein, shall be evidence in
all cases of equal credibility with the original record or papers so ﬁled. 

SEC. 4636. Copies of books of original entries. Copies of entries
made in the book of “copies of original entries,” kept as a record in the
oﬂice of the county recorder, when such book has been compared with the
originals and certiﬁed as true copies by the register of the United States
land oﬁice at which such original entries were made, may, when certiﬁed by
the recorder to be true copies, be received and read in evidence in all of the
courts, with like eﬁect as certiﬁed copies of original papers recorded in his
oiﬁce. [18 G. A., ch. 186, § 1; C.’73, § 3704; R., § 4049.]
SEC. 4637. Additional entries. Copies of additional entries shall,
from time to time, be procured as made, certiﬁed as required in the preced
ing section, and entered in the book of “copies of original entries, " until all
the %&Z1dS in the county have been entered and so certiﬁed. [C.’73, § 3705;
R., 050.]
SEC. 4638. Oﬂicer to give copies of records.
the custody of a public record or Writing shall furnish any person, upon
demand and payment of the legal fees therefore, a certiﬁed copy thereof.

SEC. 4639. Maps, etc., in oﬁce of surveyor-general Copies of all
maps, oﬁicial letters and other documents in the oﬂice of the surveyor
general of the United States, when certiﬁed by that oﬂicer according to law,
shall be received by the courts of this state as presumptive evidence of the
existence and contents of the originals, and that they are copies of the origi
nals, notwithstanding such maps, oﬁicial letters or other papers, may them
selves becopied. [C. ’73, § 3707; R., § 4052.]
SEC. 4640. Certiﬁcate as to loss of paper. The certiﬁcate of a public
oﬂicer, that he has made diligent ‘and ineffectual search for a paper in his
ofﬁce, is of the same eﬁicacy in all cases as if such oﬂicer had personally
appeared and sworn to such facts. [C. ’73, § 3708; R., § 4053; C.’51, § 2434.
SEC. 4641. Duplicate receipt of receiver of land oﬁice. The usu
duplicate receipt of the receiver of any land oﬂice, or the certiﬁcate of such
receiver that the books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to a cer
tain individual, is proof of title, equivalent to a patent, against all but the
holder of an actual patent. 

SEC. 4642. Certiﬁcate of register or receiver. The certiﬁcate of
the register or receiver of any land office of the United States, as to the
entry of land within his district, shall be presumptive evidence of title, in
the person entering, to the real estate therein named. 

SEC. 4643. Oﬁcial signature presumed genuine. In the cases con
templated in the last ten sections, the signature of the ofﬁcer shall be
presumed to be genuine until the contrary is shown. 

SEC. 4644. Judicial record—of this state or federal courts. A
judicial record of this state or any court of the United States may be proved
by the production of the original, or a copy thereof certiﬁed by the clerk or
person having the legal custody thereof, authenticated by his seal of ofﬁce,
if he have one.
SEC> 4645. That of another state may be roved
by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there
be a seal, together with a certiﬁcate of a judge, chief justice or presiding
magistrate that the attestation is in due form of law.

SEC. 4646. The oﬂicial certiﬁcate of a
justice of the peace of any of the United States to any judgment and the
preliminary proceedings before him, supported by the oﬁicial certiﬁcate of
the clerk of any court of record within the county in which such justice
resides, stating that he is an acting justice of the peace of that county, and
that the signature to his certiﬁcate is genuine, is suﬁicient evidence of such
proceedings and judgment.

SEC. 4647. Of a foreign country. Copies of records and proceedings
in the courts of a foreign country may be admitted in evidence upon being
authenticated as follows:
1. By the oﬁicial attestation of the clerk or oﬁicer inwhose custody such
records are legally kept;
2. By the certiﬁcate of one of the judges or magistrates of such court,
that the person so attesting is the clerk or oﬂicer legally entrusted with the
custody of such records, and that the signature to his attestation is genuine;
3. By the official certiﬁcate of the ofﬁcer who has the custody of the
principal seal of the government under whose authority the court is held,
attested by said seal, stating that such court is duly constituted, specifying
the general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the court.

SEC. 4648. Presumption of regularity. The proceedings of all
oﬂicers and courts of limited and inferior jurisdiction within the state shall
be presumed regular, except in regard to matters required to be entered of
and except where otherwise expressly declared. 

SEC. 4649. Executive acts. Acts of the executive of the United
States, or of this or any other state of the Union, or of a foreign govern
ment, are proved by the records of the state department of the respective
governments, or by public documents purporting to have been printed by
order of the legislatures of those governments, respectively, or by either
branch thereof. [().‘73, § 3716; R., § 4061; C. '51, § 2441.]
SEC. 4650. Proceedings of legislature. The proceedings of the leg
islature of this or any other state of the Union, or of the United States, or
of any foreign government, are proved by the journals of those bodies,
respectively, or of either branch thereof, and either by copies ofﬁcially
certiﬁed by the clerk of the house in which the proceeding was had, or by
a copy purporting to have been printed by its order. 

SEC. 4651. Printed copies of the statutes.
Printed copies of the
statute laws of this or any other of the United States, or of congress, or of
any foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published under
the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the
existing laws in the courts of such state or government, shall be admitted
in the courts of this state as presumptive evidence of such laws. 

SEC. 4662. Written 1aw—unwritten law. The public seal of the state
or county, aﬁixed to a copy of the written law or other public writing, is
admissible as evidence of such law or writing, respectively. The unwrit
ten laws of any other state or government may be proved as facts by parol
evidence, or by the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts. [C.
’73, § 3719; R., § 4064; C. ’51, § 2444.]
SEC. 4653. Ordinances of city or town. The printed copies of the
ordinance of any municipal corporation, published by its authority, or tran
scripts of any ordinance, act or proceeding thereof recorded in any book, or
entries on any minutes or journals kept under its direction, and certiﬁed by
its clerk, shall be received in evidence for any purpose for which the original
ordinances, books, minutes or journals would be received, and with the
same effect. The clerk shall furnish such transcripts, and be entitled to
charge therefore at the rate that the clerk of the district court is entitled to
charge for transcripts of records from that court

SEC. 4654. Books and papers—how procured. The district or supe
rior court may in its discretion, by
rule, require the production of any
papers or books which are material to the just determination of any cause
pending before it, for the purpose of being inspected and copied by or for the party thus calling for them.

SEC. 4655. Petition—ru.le. The petition for that purpose must state
the facts expected to be proved by such books or papers, and that, as the
petitioner believes, such books and papers are under the control of the party
against whom the rule is sought, and must show wherein they are material.
The rule shall thereupon be granted to produce the books and papers, or
show cause to the contrary, if the court deems such rule expedient and
proper. [C. ’73, § 3686; R., § 4027; C. '51, § 2424.]
SEC. 4666. Failure to obey. On failure to obey the rule or show suf
ﬁcient cause therefore, the same consequences shall ensue as if the party had
failed to appear and testify when subpoenaed by the party now calling for
the books and pa )(3I‘S. [C373, § 3687; R., § 4026; C. ’5l, § 2425.]
Snc. 4657. riting called for. Though a Writing called for by one
party is by the other produced, the party calling for it is not obliged
to use it as evidence in the case. [C. ’73, § 3688; R., § 4029; C. ’51, § 24.96.]
SEC. 4668. Subpoenas for witnesses. Theclerks of the several courts
shall, on application of any person having a cause or matter pending in
court, issue a. subpoena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting
all the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, if practicable,
which may be served by the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the county,
or by the party or any other person. When a subpoena. is served by any
person other than the sheriff, coroner or constable, proof thereof shall be
shown by affidavit; but no costs for serving the same shall be allowed. [O.’73,
§3671; R., § 4012.]
SEC. 4659. To whom directed—duces tecum. The subpoena shall
be directed to the person therein named, requiring him to attend at a par
ticular time or place to testify as a, witness, and it may contain a clause
directing the witness to bring with him any book, writing or other thing
under his control, which he is bound by law to produce as evidence. 

SEC. 4660. How far compelled to attend. Witnesses in civil cases
cannot be compelled to attend the district or superior court out of the state
where they are served, nor at a. distance of more than seventy miles from the
place of their residence, or from that where they are served witha subpoena,
unless within the same county. No other subpoena but that from the dis
trict or superior court can compel his attendance at a greater distance than
thirty miles from his place of residence, or of service, if not in the same
county. 

SEC. 4661. Witnesses in any court of record, except in
the police courts, shall receive for each day’s attendance one dollar and
twenty-ﬁve cents, and in the police courts the same fees and mileage as are
allowed before justices of the peace; before a justice of the peace, ﬁfty
cents for each day; and in all cases ﬁve cents per mile for each mile actually
traveled. An attorney, juror or oﬁicer, who is in habitual attendance on
the court for the term at which he is examined as a witness, shall be entitled
to but one day’s attendance. No peace oﬂicer shall, in any case, receive
fees as a witness for testifying in regard to any matter coming to his knowl
edge in the discharge of his oﬁicial duties in such case, unless the court so
orders. _Witnesses called to testify only to an opinion founded on special
study or experience in any branch of science, or to make scientiﬁc or profes
sional examinations and state the result thereof, shall receive additional
compensation, to be ﬁxed by the court, with reference to the value of the
time employed and the degree of learning or skill required; but such addi
tional compensation shall not exceed four dollars per day while so employed
For attending before the grand or trial jury or court in criminal cases
where the defendant is adjudged not guilty, the fees above provided for
attending the district or justice ’s court shall be paid by the county, upon a
certiﬁcate of the clerk or justice showing the amount of the services to
which they are entitled.

SEC. 4662. Fees in advance. Witnesses, except
parties to the action,
are entitled to receive in advance, if demanded when subpoenaed, their trav
eling fees to and from the court, with their fees for one day's attend
ance. At the commencement of each day after the ﬁrst, they are further
entitled, on demand, to receive the legal fees for that day in advance. If
not thus paid, they are not compelled to attend or remain as witnesses. 

SEC. 4663. Witness fees paid by party or county. When the county
or any party has paid the fees of any witness, and the same is afterward
collected from the adverse party, the county or person so paying the same
shall, upon the production of the receipt of such witness or other satis
factory evidence, be entitled to such fee, whether it be in the hands of the
justice or clerk, or has been paid into the county treasury. [C. ’73, § 3817.]
SEC. 4664. Contempt in failing to attend or testify. For a failure
to obey a valid subpoena without a suﬁicient cause orexcuse, or for a
refusal to testify after appearance, the delinquent is guilty of a contempt
of court and subject to be proceeded against by attachment. He is also
liable to the party by whom he was subxpmnaed for all consequences of such
delinquency, with ﬁfty dollars addition damages. [C.’73, § 3675; R., § 4016;
C351, § 2418.]
SEC. 4665. Proceedings for contempt. Before a witness is so liable
for a contempt for not appearing, he must be served rsonally with the
process, by reading it to him, and leaving a copy ereof with him, if
demanded, and it must be shown that the fees and traveling expenses
allowed by law were tendered to him, if required; or it must appear that a.
copy of the subpoena, if left at his usual place of residence, came into his
hands, with the fees and traveling expenses above mentioned. [C.’73, §
3676; R., § 4017; C.’51, § 2419.]
SEC. 4666. Serving subpmna. If a witness conceals himself, or in
any manner attempts to avoid being personally served with a subpoena, any
sheriﬁ or constable having the subpuma may use all necessary and proper
means to serve the same, and may for that purpose break into any build
ing or other place where the witness is to be found, having ﬁrst made known
his business and demanded admission. [C/73, § 3677; R., §4()l8; C.’51, §
2420.
SEC. 4667. When party fails to obey subpcnna. In addition to the
above remedies, if a party to an action in his own right, on being duly sub
pcenaed, fails to appear and give testimony, the other party may, at his
election, have a continuance of the cause at the cost of the delinquent. [C.
’73, § 3683; R., S4024; C.’51, § 2421.]
SEC. 4668. Pleading taken true, or continuance. Or if he shows by
his own testimony, or otherwise, that he could not have a full personal
knowledge of the transaction, the court may order his pleading to be taken
as true; subject to be reconsidered during the term of the court, upon satis
factory reasons being shown for the delinquency. 

SEC. 4669. Subpoenas by oﬁcer or board. Any oﬁicer or board
authorized to hear evidence shall have authority to subpoena witnesses and
compel them to attend and testify, in the same manner as ofﬁcers author
ized to take depositions.
SEC. 4670. Prisoner produced. A person conﬁned in a. penitentiary
or jail in the state may, by order of any court of record, be required to be
produced for oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned, and in
a criminal case in any county in the state; but in all other cases his exam
ination must be by a deposition. 

SEC. 4671. Deposition of. While a prisoner’s deposition is being
taken, he shall remain in the custody of the oﬁicer having him in charge,
who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking thereof. [C.’73, § 3679;
R., § 4020.
SEC. 46172. Procuring depositions. When, by the laws of this or any
other state or country, testimony may be taken in the form of depositions
to be used in any of the courts thereof, the person authorized to take such
depositions may issue subpoenas for witnesses, which must be served by the
same oﬁicers and returned in the same manner as is required in a justice ‘s
court, and obedience thereto may be enforced in the same way and to the
same extent a justice of the peace might do, or he may report the matter to
the district court or a judge thereof, who may enforce obedience as though
léhe action was pending in said court. [C. ’73, § 3680-2; R., § 4021-3; C. ’51,
§ 2477-9.]
SEC. 4673. Aﬂida.vits—before whom made. An aﬂfidavit is a written
declaration made under oath, without notice to the adverse party, before
any erson authorized to administer oaths within or without the state. 

SEC. 4674. Out of the state. Those taken out of the state before
any judge or clerk of a court of record, or before a notary public, or a com
missioner appointed by the governor of this state to take acknowledgment
of deeds in the state where such aﬁidavit is taken, are of the same credibil
ity as if taken within the state.

SEC. 4675. How compelled. When a person is desirous of obtaining
the aﬁidavit of another who is unwilling to make the same fully, he may
apply by petition to any oﬁicer competent to take depositions, stating the
objeclt for which he desires the affidavit. [C.’73, §3692; R., § 4038; C351, §
2480.
Sec. 4676. Subpoena issued. If the ofﬁcer is satisﬁed that the object
is legal and proper, he shall issue his subpoena to bring the witness before
him, and, if he fails then to make a full aﬂidavit of the facts within his
knowledge to the extent required of him by the oﬁicer, the latter may pro
ceed to take his deposition by question and answer in the usual way, which
may be used instead of an ordinary aﬁidavit.

SEC. 4677. Notice. The oﬁcer may, in his discretion, require notice
of the taking of such aﬁdavit or deposition to be given to any person inter
ested in the subject-matter, and allow him to be resent and cross-examine
such witness. [C.’73, §3694; R., §4040; C.’51, 2462.]
SEC. 4678. Aﬁiant produced. The court or oﬁicer to whom any affi
davit is presented as a. basis for some action, in relation to which any dis
cretion is lodged with such court or ofﬁcer, may require the witness to be
brought before it or him and submit to a cross-examination by the opposite
party. 

SEC. 4679. Signature and sea.1—presumption. The signature and
seal of such oﬁicers as are authorized to take depositions or aﬁidavits, hav
ing a seal, and the simple signature of such as have no seal, are presump
tive evidence of the genuineness thereof, as well as of the oﬂicial character
of the oﬂicer, except as otherwise declared. [C.’73, §3696; R., § 4037; O.
'51, 2416.
SEC. 46180. Publications-how proved. Publications required to be
made in a newspaper may be proved by the aﬁidavit of any person having
knowledge of the fact, specifying the times when and the paper in which
the pub1icu.ti0n was made, but such aiﬁdavit must be made within six' months
after the last day of publication. 

SEC. 4681. Proof of serving or posting notices. The posting up or
service of any notice or other paper required by law may be proved by the
aﬂidavit of any competent witness attached to a. copy of said notice or aper,
and made within six months of the time of such posting up. 

SEC. 4682. Other facts. Any other fact which is required to be shown
by aﬁidavit, and which may be required for future use in any action or other
proceeding, may be proved by pursuing the course above indicated, as nearly
asthe circumstances of the case will admit. [C.’73, §3699; R., §40-14; C.
'51, § 2429.
SEC. 46 3. How perpetuated. Proof so made may be perpetuated
and preserved for future use by ﬁling the papers above mentioned in the
oﬁice of the clerk of the district court of the county where the act is done,
and the original aﬂidavit appended to the notice or paper, if there is one,
and, if not, the affidavit by itself is presumptive evidence of the facts stated
therein, but does not preclude other modes of proof now held suﬂicient.
[C.’73, § 3700; R., § 4045; C.’51, § 2430.]
SEC. 4684. Depositions—when taken and by whom. After the com mencement
of a civil action or other civil proceeding, if the witness resides
within this state but in a different county from the place of trial, or is about
to go beyond the reach of a subpoena, or is for any other cause expected to
be unable to attend court at the time of trial, the party wishing his testi
mony may take his deposition in writing before any person having authority
to administer oaths; and if the action is by equitable proceedings, then,
without any other reason therefore, either party may so take the deposition
Of any witness.

SEC. 4685. Upon notice or by commission. If the deposition is to
be taken within the state, it may be upon notice or upon commission, and,
if without the state, it must be by the latter method, except by agreement
of the parties.

SEC. 4686. By consent. By the written consent of parties, depositions
may be taken in either method, and without any reason therefore being made
to appear, and before any person designated in the agreement.
3724; R., § 4068; C. '51, § :2-148.
SEC. 4687. On notice. en the deposition is taken upon notice, it
must be before some person authorized to administer oaths, or agreed upon
by the parties, and notice of the name of the witness, and the time when,
the place where and the person before whom it is to be taken shall be given
to the opposite arty. [C. ‘T3, § 3721-2; R., § 4065-6; C. '51, § 2445——6.]
SEC. 4688. ot on election day or holiday, etc. No party shall be
required to take depositions on notice on the day of the general election,
nor on any of the days on which appearance in an action cannot by law be
required, nor during a term of the court in which the action is pending,
unless such court, upon written motion, in furtherance of justice, shall so
order. If notices are given in the same case by the same party of the tak
ing of depositions at different places upon the same day, they shall be
invalid. C. '73, § 3722, 3730; R., § 4060', 4073; C351, § 2446, 2453.]
SEC. 4 89. On commission—notice-—interrogatories. A party
wishing to take a deposition by commission may serve on the opposite party
a notice that, on a day named, a commission will issue from the oﬂice of the
clerk of the court in which the action or proceeding is pending, or in acase
in a justice ‘s court, from the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county, directed to any of the oﬂicers or persons enumerated in the follow
ing section, specifying the oﬁicer or person, for the taking of such deposi
tions on written interrogatories to be ﬁled with the clerk, a copy of which
must accompany and be served with said notice. Such notice shall give
the name of the Witness whose deposition is thus to be taken. [C. ’73, § 3727;
R., § 4071, 4092; C. "51, § 2450, 2-165.]
SEC. 4690. Who may act as commissioner. Such commission may
issue to the clerk or any judge of any court of record, or any commissioner
appointed by the governor of this state to take acknowledgments of deeds
in another state, or any notary public, or any consul or consular agent of
the United States, and such oﬁicer may be designated in the notice and in
the commission, either by the name of oﬁice of such oﬂicer or by his
individual name and oﬁicial style; or the commission may issue to any per
son designated by the court for that purpose or agreed upon by the parties,
such person being named in the notice. If the commission issues to any
oﬁicer or person for the taking of the deposition in any of the United States
or in Canada, the name of the state and countyinwhich the deposition is to be
taken shall be speciﬁed in the notice and commission; otherwise, it shall be
suﬂicient to name the state, territory or district, and town or city. 

SEC. 4691. Ofﬂcer within limits of jurisdiction. None of the above
named oﬁicers are permitted to take the depositions aforesaid by virtue of
a commission directed to him merely as such officer, unless within the limits
of his ofﬁcial jurisdiction. [(1. ’73, §3726; R., §4070; G. ’51, §2450.]
SEC. 4692. Cross-interrogatories. At or before the time ﬁxed in the
notice for the issuance of the commission, the opposite party may ﬁle cross
interrogatories. If cross-interrogatories are not ﬁled, the clerk shall ﬁle
the following:
1. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action? and, if inter
ested, explain the interest you have;
2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made from your
personal knowledge? and, if not, do your answers show what are made from
your personal knowledge, and what are from information, and the source of
that information? if not, now show what is from information, and give its
source;
3. State everything you know concerning the subject of this action fav
orable to either party. [C.’73, §3728; R., §-1072; C. '51, § 2452.]
SEC. 4693. Oral cross-examination. When notice is served of taking
a deposition on commission, the adverse party may elect to appear and
orally cross-examine the witness, and, if he so elects, he shall serve written
notice of his election on the opposite party or his attorney at least one day
before the date on which the commission is to be issued; and if such notice
is given, then, before said commission shall issue, the party suing out the
same shall deliver to the adverse party or his attorney a written statement,
giving the name and address of the commissioner, the place, and, if in a
city, the street and number, and the day and hour of taking the deposition.
Such statement must be delivered to said adverse party or his attorney ﬁve
days before the date ﬁxed for taking the deposition, if taken within the
state; if taken elsewhere, one additional day for every three hundred miles
distance between the place where the commission issues and where the dep
osition is to be taken. If the adverse party elects to cross-examine the
witness orally, the party suing out the commission may waive his written
interrogatories and appear and orally examine the witness. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, the provision relating to taking deposi
tions on notice shall be followed in taking that part of the deposition which
is taken by oral examination. [26 G. A., ch. 74.]
SEC. 4694. Form of commission. On the day ﬁxed in the notice, the
commission may issue in the name of the court and under its seal, with the
signature of the clerk, and need contain only a statement of the case and
court in which the testimony is to be used, the authority conferred upon the
commissioner, who shall be designated as hereinbefore provided, and
instructions to guide him in the taking of the deposition. The interroga
tories and cross-interrogatories ﬁled by the respective parties are to be
appended to such commission. 

SEC. 4695. Injustice’s court. If the action in which it is desired to
take a deposition on commission is pending in a justice ’s court, the commis
sion shall issue from the oﬁice of the clerk of the district court of the county,
or of the superior court, if there be one in the same township, on such
notice as is required in suing out a commission in a case pending in such
court. VVhon such deposition is returned to the clerk of the court from
which the commission issued, he shall deliver it personally or forward it by
mail to the justice before whom the action is pending. [C.’73, § 3737; R., §
4081; C.’51, §24:'>H.]
SEC. 4696. Service of notice. The notice of taking depositions by
either of the methods provided may be served personally upon the opposite
party or his attorney of record, in the same manner as an original notice in
a civil action, except by publication, or such service may be accepted by the
party or his attorney. 

SEC. 4697. By ﬁling in clerk’s oﬂice. If the party sought to be
served with notice is a nonresident, or his residence is unknown, or in case
of default, and the party has no attorney of record who is a resident of the
state, the notice of the taking of depositions or suing outacommission
therefore may be served by ﬁling such notice, or such notice with a copy of
the interrogatories attached, with the clerk of the court in which the action
or proceeding is pending, ten days before the taking of the depositions or
the issuance of the commission, as the case may be. 

SEC. 4698. Length of notice. The notice of taking a deposition by
either of the methods, except as otherwise provided shall be, when served
on the attorney, at least ten days, and upon the party within the county
where the deposition is to be taken or the commission sued out, at least ﬁve
days. If served upon the party outside such county, the length of time shall
be that required in serving an original notice. If depositions are to be taken
upon notice, whether served upon the attorney or party, one day in addition
to the time hereinbefore speciﬁed must be allowed for every one hundred
miles travel from the place where it is served to where the deposition is to
be taken. 

SEC. 4699. Method of taking. The person before whom depositions
are taken must cause the interrogatories propounded, if oral, to be written
out, if written to be stated by number, and the answers thereto inserted
immediately thereunder.
practicable, of the witness.
The answers must be in the language, as nearly as
The whole, being read over by or as to the witness, must be subscribed and sworn to by him in the usual manner.

SEC. 4700. The oﬂicer taking the deposition shall attach
thereto his certiﬁcate that the testimony
of the witness was correctly and
under his direction and in his presence, and was read over by the oﬁicer to
Written down by him, or by a. disinterested person named therein,
such witness and signed and sworn to by the witness in the oiﬁcer’s pres
ence; any exhibits oifered and identiﬁed shall be referred to in the certiﬁcate
as thus identiﬁed, and the certiﬁcate shall show that the same or a true copy
thereof is attached to and returned with the deposition. When the oath is
administered to the witness by some other person, the oﬁicer’s certiﬁcate
shall recite such fact, stating his name and oﬁicial character.

SEC. 4701. Oath administered. If the deposition is taken in the state
before a per: on not authorized to administer oaths, or out of the state not
before an oﬁicer enumerated in and allowed by this chapter so to do, the wit
ness must be sworn by some one who has that authority.
SEC. 4702. Taking in shorthand. The deposition may be taken in
shorthand, in which case the certiﬁcate of the person taking it on notice or
commission must show that the testimony of the witness was correctly taken
down in shorthand, and was correctly extended, and that the notes of his
testimony or such extension thereof was read over tothe Witness, and signed by
him and sworn to, if within the state before a person authorized to adminis
ter oaths, and if without the state before one of the ofﬁcers authorized to
take depositions outside of the state, and such extension, together with the
shorthand notes, if signed and sworn to, must be returned as the deposition.
Any one taking depositions in shorthand shall ﬁrst take and subscribe an
oath to take down and transcribe correctly such testimony, and shall certify
that his translation thereof is full, true and complete. [:25 G. A., ch. 94.]
SEC. 4708. Authentication of oﬁcial character. When depositions
are taken before an oﬁicer not having a seal, unless so done by agreement
of parties, his signature and oﬁicial character must be authenticated by the
certiﬁcate of the clerk of a court of record under its seal, or that of the
oﬁicer having in charge the seal of state. If taken before an oﬁicer
having a seal, whether in or outside the state, the certiﬁcate of the oﬁicer
under such seal shall be received as presumptive evidence of the genuine
ness of the signature and of his oﬂicial character. [C.’73, § 3742; R., §
4086; C. '51, S 2462.]
SEC. 4704. Neither party present at taking on commission. Where
a deposition is taken upon written interrogatories alone, neither party, nor
his agent or attorney, shall be present at the examination of the Witness,
unless both parties are present or represented by an agent or attorney, and
the certiﬁcate shall state such fact if a party or his agent is present. 

SEC. 4705. Transmission. The deposition duly certiﬁed as hereinbe
fore required, with the commission and interrogatories, if taken on com
mission, must be sealed up and deposited by the person taking it, within
thirty days, with the clerk of the proper court, or transmitted to him by
mail or express, unless some other mode be agreed upon between the par
ties. [C.’73, § 3737; R., § 4081; C. ’51, § 2458.]
SEC. 4706. Indorsement. The deposition, when prepared for ﬁling
with or return to the clerk, must be indorsed, on the outside of a sealed
envelope in which it is inclosed, with the title of the cause in which it is
to be used. [C. ’73, § 3740; R., § 4084; O. ’51, § 2460.]
SEC. 4707. Opened-custody. When thus returned, it must be
opened by the clerk and placed on ﬁle in his ofﬁcc, after which he shall at
any time furnish any person with an attested copy of the same upon pay
ment of the customary fees, but must not allow it to be taken from his oﬂice
previous to the next term of the court, unless by the written consent of all
of the parties. 

SEC. 4708. Unimportant deviations. Unimpo
any of the above directions shall not cause the depo
rtant deviations from
sition to be excluded,
Where no substantial prejudice could be wrought to the opposite party
thereby, and by order of court it may be returned to the oﬂicer taking the
same for correction and amendments as to formal matters.

SEC. 4709. Deposition to show reason for taking. The deposition in
all cases, unless the record discloses a cause for the taking, must show that
the witness is a nonresident of the county, or such other fact as renders its
taking legal, and no such deposition shall be read on the trial if, at the
time, the witness himself is produced in court. 
SEC. 4710. On appeal from justice. Depositions taken to be usedina.
justice ’s court shall be transferred to the court to which the cause is appealed,
and used on the trial of such appeal. 

SEC. 4711. Notice of ﬁling. Upon the ﬁling of a deposition in the
clerk’s oﬂlce, he shall, on the day it is ﬁled, mail to the attorney of each
party to the action, directed to his post-oﬁice address, a notice thereof,
reciting the title of the case, names of witnesses, and the date of ﬁling.
If the post-oﬁice address of any such attorney is unknown to the clerk, the
notice shall be addressed to him at the post-oﬁce where the cause is pend
ing for trial. [17 G. A., ch. 26; C.’73, § 3751.]
SEC. 4712. Exceptions. Ii a deposition is ﬁled three days or more
prior to noon of the second day of a term, no exceptions thereto, other than
for incompetcncy, irrelevancy or immateriality, shall be regarded, unless
made by motion and ﬁled by that time; if a deposition is ﬁlod thereafter or
during a term, such exception shall be ﬁled by noon of the third day after
such ﬁling, but all such exceptions or motions to sup ress such depositions
must be made before the cause is reached for trial. 

SEC. 4713. Hearing. The court shall, on motion of either party, hear
and decide the questions arising on exceptions and motions to su press
depositions before the commencement of the trial. 

SEC. 4714. Errors waived. Errors of the court in its decision upon
exceptions to depositions are waived, unless excepted to. [C.’73, § 3753;
R., § 4091.
SEC. 47l5. Fees for taking. Any oﬂicer or person taking depositions
is authorized to charge therefore ten cents per hundred words, exclusive of
the certiﬁcate; for administering an oath to each witness, ﬁve cents; for cer
tifying to the administration of the oath to and signature of the deposition
by each witness, twenty-ﬁve cents; and for the certiﬁcate to the deposition
or depositions, twenty-ﬁve cents, the charge for such certiﬁcate including
the aﬁixing of the seal thereto, if the person certifying is an officer having
a seal; for issuing a subpoena for a witness, twenty-ﬁve cents; for certify
ing to a court the failure of a witness to respond to a subpoena, or his
refusal to answer questions or to sign and swear to his deposition, twenty
ﬁve cents, with ten cents per hundred words for copies of papers required
to be certiﬁed in such a case. 

SEC. 4716. Witness fees. A witness appearing before an oﬁicer
directed to take his deposition is entitled to the same fees and mileage as a
witness in the court in which the deposition is to be used. If subpoenaed,
such a witness is entitled to his fees and mileage in advance, as in other cases.
SEC. 4717. Costs. In all cases of taking depositions, the taxable costs
thereof must be paid in the ﬁrst place by the party at whose instance they
are taken, subject, like other costs, to be taxed against the failing party in
the action. 

SEC. 4718. Perpetuating testimony. The testimony of a witness may
be perpetuated in the following manner: The applicant must ﬁle in the
oiiice of the clerk of the district or superior court, a veriﬁed petition, which
shall set forth the subject-matter relative to which testimony is to be taken,
the names of the persons interested, if known, and, if not, such general
description as he can give of such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or
otherwise. It must also state the names of the witnesses to be examined,
the interrogatories to be propounded to each, that the applicant expects to
be a party to an action in a court of the state, in which such testimony
will, as he believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the imme
diate commencement of the action, where he expects to be the piaintiif.
SEC. 4719. Order of court or judge. The court, or the judge thereof,
may, if the occasion for taking the deposition be a proper one, make an
order allowing the examination of such witnesses, which shall prescribe the
time and place of the examination, how long the parties interested shall be
notiﬁed thereof, and the manner in which they shall be notiﬁed. [C.’73, §
3747. R., §4096.
SEC. 4720. rossinterrogatories. When it satisfactorily appears to
the court or judge that the parties interested can not be personally notiﬁed,
such court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the peti
tion and prepare and ﬁle cross-interrogatories to those contained therein.
The witnesses must be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant,
and any cross-interrogatories ﬁled by or for parties, and no others shall
be propounded to them; nor shall any statement be received which is not
responsive to some of them. The attorney ﬁling the cross-interrogatories
shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
[C. ’73, § 3748; R., § 4097.]
SEC. 4721. Before whom taken. Such deposition shallbetaken before
some one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one specially
authorized by the court or judge, and returned to the clerk’s oﬁice of the
court in which the petition is ﬁled, the method of taking and verifying the
same being the same as that provided for in case of depositions in an action,
so far as applicable. [C.’73, § 3749; R., § 4098.] _
SEC. 4722. Costs. The costs of taking the deposition, including those
incurred in the proceeding for securing them, shall be paid in the ﬁrst
instance by the party causing them to be taken.
SEC. 4723. Filing-use. The court or judge, if satisﬁed that the depo
sitions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve the
same and order them to be ﬁled; and if a trial be had between the parties
named in the petition, or their privics or successors in interest, such depo
sitions, or certiﬁed copies thereof, may be given in evidence by either party
where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where their attendance for oral
examination cannot be obtained as required; but such depositions shall be
subject to the same objections for irrelevancy, incompetency or immaterial
ity as may be made to depositions taken pending an action. 

