SECTION. 2504. [Remedies classed.]—Remedies in civil cases in the courts
of this state are divided into actions and special proceedings.
Sec. 2505. Civil action deﬁiied.]—-A Civil action is a proceeding in a court
0f justiceinw ich one party, known as the plaintifff, demands against another
party, known an the defendant, the enforcement or protection of a private right,
01' the prevention or redress of a private wrong. It may also be brought for a
recovery of penalty or forfeiture. 

SEC. 2508. Equitable pPOCGBdlngs.——The plaintitl‘ may prosecute his
action by equita le proceedingin all cases where courts of equity, before the adop
tion o£ this code. had jurisdiction; and must so proceed in all cases where jurisdic
tion was exclusive.

SEC. 2509. [Foreclosure of mortgage: action on note.]-The action on
a note, together With a mortgage or deed of trust, for the foreclosure of the same,
shall be by equitable proceedings. An action on the bond or note alone Without
re ard therein to the mortgage or deed of trust, shall be by ordinary proceedings.
SEC. 2510. [Mechanics llell.]—The action for mechanics‘ lien shall be pros
ecuted by equitable proceedings, and thereWith shall no other cause of act-ion be
'oined.

SEC. 2511- [D1V01‘ce.]——An action for a divorce shall be prosecnted by equita
ble proceedings, and no cause of action, save for alimony, shall be joined there
with.

Sec. 2512. [Sui-cues: occupying claimantsJ—Actwns by suretleS. and
by occupying claimants, and on a lest note or bond, may be by ordinary pro
ceedin . 

SEC. 2513- [Ordinary proceedings. -—ln all other cases, except in this code
otherinse provrded, the plaintifff must prosecute his action by ordinary proceed
ings.

SEC. 2514- [EPI‘OPZ eﬂ‘ect 0f.]—An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of pro
ceedings adopted shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action, but
merely a change into the proper proceedings, and a transfer of the action to the
proper docket.

SEC. 2515. [How corrected by plaintlﬂ.]——Such error may be corrected by
the plaintifff without motion at any time before the defendant has answered, or
afterwards, on motion in court. 

SEC. 2516. [By defendant. l—The defendant may have the correction made by
motion at or uefore the ﬁling of his answer, where it appears by the provisions of
this code the wrong proceedings have been adopted.

Sec. 2517. [Ordinary, changed into equitable.}—Where the action has been
properly commencedby ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by
motion, to have any issue heretofore exclusively cognizable in equity tried in the
manner hereinafter prescribed in cases of equitable proceedings; and if all the issues
were such as were heretofore cognizable in equity, thou h none were exclusively
so, the defendant shall be entitled to have them all trie as in cases of equitable
proceedings. 

SEC. 2518. [Court may order cliangeJ—lf there be more than one party
plaintifff or defendant who_fail to unite on the kind of proceeding to be adopted,
the court, on its own motion, may direct such proceedings to be changed to the
same extent as if the parties had united in asking that the same be done.
SEC. 2519. IEITOI‘S waived.]—An error as _to the kind of proceedings adopted
in the action is waived by a failure to move for its correction at the time and in
the manner prescribed in this chapter, and all errors in the decision of the court are
waived unless excepted to at the time, except ﬁnal judgments and interlocutory or
ﬁnal decrees entered of record

SEC. 2520. [Unitbrmity 0f procedure.]—The provisions of this code, con
cerning the prosecution of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceeding,
whether ordinary _or equitable, unless the contrary appears, and shall be followed
iii special proceedings, not otherWise regulated, so far as applicable.

Sec. 2521. [Actions on Judgments: when broughtJ—No action shall be
brought upon any judgment, against a defendant tlierein,_rendered in any court
of record of this state within ﬁfteen years after the rendition thereof without
leave_of the court for good cause shown, andno notice to_ the adverse party, nor
on a judgment of a justice of the peace of this state Within eight years after the
same 18 rendered, except in cases where the docket of the justice, or record of such
Judvment is, or shall be, lost or destroyed.

Sec. 2522. _[Judgment_ cannot be annulled.]—Judgri_ient obtained in an
action by ordinary proceedings shall not be annulled or modiﬁed by any order in
an action by equitable proceedings, except for a defense which has arisen or been
discovered since the judgment Was rendered. _ But_such judgment does not prevent
the recovery of any claim, though such claim might have been used by way of
counterclaim in the action on which the judgment was recovered.

Sec. 2523. [For discover ; when brought.]—-No action to obtain a dis
covery shall be brought, excep that where any person or corporation is liable,
either jointly or severally with others by the same contract, an .action may be
brought against any parties who are liable, to obtain discovery of the names and
residences of_the others who are liable. In such, action, the plaintiﬂ' shall state in
his petition, in effect, that he has used due diligence, without success, to obtain
the information asked to be discovered, and that he does not believe the parties to
the contract who are known to him have property sufﬁcient to satisfy his claim.
The petition shall be veriﬁed, and the cost of such action shall be paid by the
plaintifff, unless the discovery be resisted. _ _
SEC. 2524. [SUOGQSSIVB actiOilsJ—Successive actions may be maintained
upon the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new
.cause of action has arisen therefrom.

SEC. 2525. [Actions s_urVive.]—All causes of actions shall survive, and may
be brought, notWithstanding the death of the person entitled or liable to the
same.

Sec. 2526. [Homicides ciVilly liable.]—The right of civil remedy is not
merged in a public offense, but may, in all cases, be enforced independently of, and
in addition to, the punishment of the latter. When a wrongful act produces death,
the damages shall shall be disposed of as personal property belonging to the estate
of the deceased,_except that if the deceased leaves a husband, wife, child, or parent,
it shall not be liable for the payment of debts.

Sec. 2527. [Proceedings: limitation of actioii.]——The actions contemplated
in the two preceding sections may be brought, or the court, on motion, may allow
the action to be continued by or against the legal representatives or successors in
interest of the deceased. Such action shall be deemed a continuing one, and to
have accrued to such representative or successor at the same time it did to the
deceased if he had survived. If such is continued against the legal representative
of the defendant, as notice shall be served on him as provided for service of original
notices.

SEC. 2528- [Construction: rule of common law not applicableJ—Tha rule
of the common law that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed
has nonpplication to this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall
be liberally construed with a view to promote its objects and assist the parties in
obtaining justice.

SEC. 2529. [Period 0f.]—-The following actions may be brought within the
tunes herein limited respectively after their causes accrue and not afterwards,
except when otherwrse specially declared. 
1. [Two years.J——Actions founded on injuries to the person or reputation,
whet-her based on contract or tort, or for a statute penalty, within two years.
. Actions to enforce a mechanic’s lien Within two years from the time of ﬁling
the statement in the clerk‘s ofﬁce.
3. [Three years.]—~Those against a. sheriff or other public ofﬁcer, growing out of
a liability incurred by the domg of an act in an ofﬁcial capacity or by the omission
of an ofﬁcial duty, including the non-payment of money collected on execution,
within three years.
4- [FIVG years.]—Those founded on unwritten contracts, those brought for
1111111188 to property, or for relief on the ground of fraud in cases heretofore solely
cognizable in a. court of chancery, and all other actions not otherwrse provided for
in this respect, within ﬁve years. 
5. [Ten yearS.]—Tliose founded on written contracts, on 'udgments of any
courts, except those courts provided for in the next section, an those brought for
the recovery of real property, Within ten years.

6- [Twenty years.]—Tliose founded on :1 Judgment of a court of record,
whether of this or of any other of the United States, or of the federal courts of
the United States, Within twenty years.
SEC. 2530. [Fraud: mistake: trespassJ—h actions for relief on the
ground of fraud or mistake, and in actions for trespass to property, the cause of
action shall not be deemed to have accrued until the fraud, mistake or trespass
complained of shall have been discovered by the party aggrieved.

SEC. 2531. [Open account,_|—When there is a continuous open current account
the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the date of the last item
therein as proved 0n the trial.

SEC. 2532- [Commencement 0f action.]—The_ delivery of. the original notice
to the sheriff of the proper county with intent that it be served Immediately, which
intent shall be presumed unless the contrary appears, or the actual service of that
notice by another person, is a commencement of the action.

SEC. 2533. [Non-Peeidence.]—The time during which a defendant is a non
resident of the state shall not be included in computing any of the periods of limi
tation above described.

SEC. 2534. [Exception.]—When a cause of action has been fully barred by
the laws of any country where the defendant has [.I'GVIOUSly resided, such bar shall
be the same defense here as though it had arisen under the provisions of this chap
ter; but this section shall not apply to causes of action arising within this state.

Sec. 2535. [Minors and insane _persons.]—_—The times limited for actions
herein, except those brought for penalties and forfeitures, shall, in favor of minors
isdeﬁned by the code, and persons insane, be extended so that they shall have one
year from and after the termination of such disability Within which to commence
said actions.

Sec. 2536. [Death: exceptronj—If the person entitled to a. cause of action
die within one year next previous to the expiration of the limitation above provided
for, the limitation above mentioned shall not apply until one year after such
death.

Sec. 2537. [Failure of action.]—lf, after the commencement of an action,
the plaintiff fail therein for any cause except negligence in its prosecution, and a
new suit be brought within six months thereafter, the second suit shall, for the
purposes herein contemplated. be deemed a continuation of the ﬁrst.

SEC. 2358. [Bank bills_]-—The above limitations and provisions shall not apply
toevidences of debt intended to circulate as money, butshall, in other respects,
be applicable to all actions brought by or against all bodies corporate and politic,
except when otherwise expressly declared.

SEC. 2539. [AdmlSSIOH in \Vl‘ltlng.]—Causes of action founded on contract
are revived by an admissmn that the debt is unpaid, as well as by a new p'omise
to pay the same. But such admisswn or new promise must be in writing, Signed
by the party to be charged thereby.

Sec. 2540. [Counter-claim: when barred.]—A counterclaim may be
plead as adefense to any cause of action, notWithstanding the same is barred by
the provisions of this chapter, it such counterclaim so pleaded was the property
of the party pleading it at the time it became barred, and the same was not barred
at the time the claim 'sued on originated; but no judgment thereon except for
costs can be rendered in favor of the party so pleading the same. 

SEC. 2541. [Injunction 01‘ statutory prohibition.]-—When the commence
ment of an action shall be stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time
cfthe continuance of such injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time
limited for the commencement of the action.
Sec. 2542. [School fund.]—The provisions of this chapter shall not be appli
cable to any action brought on any contract for any part of the school fund.

SEC. 2543. [Party in interest.]—Every action must be prosecuted 1n the
name of the real party in interest, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 2544. [EXQGPthII.]—~_An executor or administrator, a guardian, a trustee
of an express trust, a party With whom, in whose name, a contract is made for the
beneﬁt of another, or party expressly authorized by statute, may sue in‘his own
name Without 10111ng With him the party for whose beneﬁt the suit is prosecuted.

SEC. 2545. [Plaintiffs Joined. —All persons having an interest in the subJ'esii
of the action,_and in obtaining _t e relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiﬁ‘s,
except where it is otherivise provided in this code.

SEC. 2546. [_Assi nment: right of defendant saved. l—In case of the
assignment ot a tiing in action, the action by the assrgnee shall be Without
prejudice to any counterclaim, defense or cause of action whether matured or not, '
1f matured when plead, exrsting in favor of the defendant and against the assignor
betore notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to negotiable in
struments transferred in good faith and upon valuable consrderation before due.

SEC. 254?. [Defendants-Pliny person may be “18:66.8 defendant who has, or
claims, an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintlﬂ'; or who is a necessary
party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved in the
action, except as otherwise expressly provided by law.

SEC. 2548. [United interest: joinderpf parties.]-—_Persons having an united
interest must be joined on the same side either as plaintifffs or defendants, esce t
as otherWise expressly provided by law. But when some who should thus be his e
laintiﬁ's refuse to join, they may be made defendants; the reason thereof being set
orth 1n the petition.

Sec. 2549. Common Interest: one suing for all.]—When the gliQEthll is
one of a common or general interest to many persons. or when the parties are very
numerous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
may sue or defend for the beneﬁt of the whole.

Sec. 2550. [Joint and several obligations: how sued.]——Where two or
more persons are bound by contract, or by judgment, decree or statute, whether
jointly only, or jointly orseverally, or severally only, and including the parties to
negotiable paper, common orders, and checks, and sureties on the same, or separ
ate instruments, or by any liability growing out of the same, the action thereon
may, at the plaintifff’s option, be brought against any or all of them. When any
of those so hound are dead, the action may _be brouo'ht against any or all of the
survivors, With any or_all of the representatives of the decedents, or against any
or all such representatives. An action or judgment against any one or more of
several persons jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings against the others.

SEC. 2551. [Other parties brought In.]—The court mny determineany con
troveisy between parties before it, when it can be done Without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights. But when a determination of the con
troversy between the parties before the court cannot be made Without the presence
of other parties, the court must order them to be brought in. 

Sec. 2552. [Bond payable to state, county or municipal corporation}
~When a bond or other instrument given to the state or county, or other munic
pal corporation, or to any ofﬁcer or person, is intended for the security of the
public generally, or 0t particular individuals, suit may be brought thereon in the
name of any person intended to be thus sued who has sustained an injury in
consequence of a breach thereof.

SEC. 2553. [Partnershlp.]~bnits may be brought by or against a partner
ship as such, or against all or either of the indiVidual members thereof, and a Judg
merit against the ﬁrm. as such, may be enforced against the artnership property
or that of such members as have appeared or been served wit notice. But a new
action may be brought must the other members on the original cause of action.

SEC. 2554. [Foreign corporatlonSJ—Foreign corporations may bring suits
in the courts of this state in their corporate name. _
Sec. 2555. [Unmarried woman,]—An unmarried female may prosecute us
plaintifff an action for her own seduction, and recover such damages as may be
found in her favor.

SEC. 2556. [When parents of may sue.]—A father, or In case of his death
or imprisonment or desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiﬁ'
an action for the expenses and actual loss of service resulting from the injury or
death of a minor child. 

SEC. 2557. [Name unknown.]—When the precise name of any defendant can
not be ascertained. he may be described as accurately as practicable, and when the
name is ascertained it shall be substituted in the proceedings.

SEC. 2558. [W ritten instrument: how sent or brought.]-—When an action
is founded on a written instrument, suit may be brought by or against any of the
parties thereto, by the same name and description as those by which they are desig
nated in such instrument.

SEC. 2559. [Prisoners lil penitenti_arv.]'—-N0 udginent can be rendered
against a prisoner in the penitentiary until after a de ense made for him by his
attorney, or if there is none, by a person appomted by the court to defend him.
SEC. 2560. [State: actions bV.]——The state shall commence and prosecute
suits according to the laws of the land as in cases between individuals, except that
no security shall in such cases be required.
SEC. 2061. [Transfer:_ abatement.]-No action shall abate by the transfer
of any interest therein duringits pendeucy.

Sec. 2562. [May sue Without Joining husband.J-—A married woman may
in all cases sue and be sued without Joining her husband with her, to the same
extent as if she were unmarried, and an attachment or judgment in such action
shall be enforced by or against her as if she were a single woman.

Sec. 2563. [Defense by,j—If husband and wife are sued together, the wife
my defend for her own right; and if either neglect to defend, the other may
defend for such one also.

SEC. 2564. EWhen husband or- wife deserts family. I—When a husband
has deserted is family, the wife may prosecute or defend in his name any action
which he might have proeecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers and
rights therein as he might have had; and under like circumstances the same right
shall apply to the husband upon the desertion of the wife.

Sec. 2565. [Action, how brought.]-—The action of a minor must be brought
by his guardian or next friend; but- the court has power to dismiss it if it is not
for the beneﬁt of the minor, or to substitute the guardian of the minor or other
person as next friend. 

SEC. 2566. [Defense by.]——The defense of a minor must be by his regular
guardian, or by a guardian appointed to defend him where no regular guardian
“Pilean, or where the court directs a defense, by a. guardian appornted for that
PUI'PEiBQ- No judgment can be rendered against a minor until after a defense by a
guar an. 

SEC. 2567. [Gum-diam: apppintmeut of. —_—The appomtment cannot be made
until after serVice of the notice in the action as directed in this code, and may then be
made by the court or Judge thereof, or (1“!ng vacation, by the clerk; but the court
shall. have the power to remove such guar ian when the interests of the minor
require such change. If made by theJudge or clerk, it shall be done by indprsmg
the name of the person appomted, an the time thereof, on the petition in the
action.

Sec. 2568. [When over fourteen years of age.]——The appointment may be
made on the application of the minor if he is of the age of fourteen years, and
applies at or before the time he is required to appear and defend. If he does not
so apply, or is under that age, the appointment may be made on the application
of any friend of the minor or on that of the plaintiff in the action.

SEC. 2569. Plaintiff: action by.]—The action of a person 'udicially found to
be of unsoun mind must be brought by his guardian, and, if e have none, the
court or judge thereof, or the clerk in vacation, may appoint one for the purposes
of the action.
SEC. 2570- Defense: guardian 0f.]—-The defense of an action against a
erson judicia ly found to be of unsound mind, or a person conﬁned in any state
unatic asylum, who, by the certiﬁcate of the physician in charge, appears to be of
unsound mind, must be by his guardian or a guardian appointed by the court to
defend for him. Such appointment may be made upon the application of any
friend of the defendant, or on that of the plaintiff, but not until service has been
made as directed in this code, and no judgment can be rendered against him until
defense has been made as herein provided.
SEC. 2571. [Pending suit.]—Where a party is judicially found to be of unsound
mind, or is conﬁned in any state lunatic asylum, and, by the certiﬁcate of the
physician in charge, appears to be of unsound mind during the pendency of an
acilOIl, the fact being stated on the record, if he is plaintiﬂ his guardian may be
joined with him in the action as such; if he is defendant, the plaintifff may, on ten
days'lnotice thereof to his guardian, have an order ‘making the guardian a defend
ant a 50.
SEC. 2572. [Interpleadem substitution of parties: deposit of property]
—Upon aliidavit of a defendant before answer, in any action upon contract for the
recovery of personal property, that some third party without collusion with him
has, or makes a claim to the subject of the action, or on proof thereof as the court
may direct, the court may make an order for the safe keeping, or for the payment
or deposit in court or delivery of the subject of the action to such person as'it may
direct, and an order requiring such third person to appear in a reasonable time and
maintain or relinquish his claims against the defendant, and in the meantime stay
the proceedings. If such third party, being served with a copy of the order, fails
to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject
of the action against the defendant therein. If such third person appears, he shall
beallowedto make himself defendant in the action in lieu of the original defendant,
Who shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in respect
to the subject of the action upon his compliance with the order of the court for pay
ment, deposit, or delivery thereof.
SEC. 2573. [Application of rule to sheriffs and ofﬁcers.]—The provisions
of the last section shall be applicable to an action brou ht against a sheriﬂ' or other
officer, for the recovery of personal property taken by im under an attachment or
execution, or for the value of such property so taken and sold by him. And the
defendant in any such action shall be entitled to the beneﬁt of these provisions
against the party in. whose favor the attachment or execution issued, upon exhib
iting tothe court the process under which he acted, with his aﬂidavit that the
property for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action was brought, was
taken under such process.
SEC. 2574' [Same_]-In an action against a sheriff or other ofﬁcer, for the new.
er)‘ of Property taken under an attachment 0? execut‘on’ the court may‘ upon
upplmtwu of the defendant and of the party in whose favor the process issued,
Pi'nnit the latter to be substituted as defendant, Suretles for the COStS being given'

SEC. 2575. [In case of landlord’s attachment.]—-Au 851111011 *0 recover the
Possesswn of speciﬁc personal property taken under a landlord s attachment, when
1,15 brought by the tenant or his assignee or under-tenant, may be against the
Party who sued out the attachment; and the property elalmed by web aetlon may,
under the writ therefore, be taken from the oﬁicer who seized it when he has no
other claim to hold it than that derived from the writ. The indorsement of a levy
on the property made upon the process- by the oﬁicer holding it, shall be sufﬁcient
taking of the property to sustain action against the party who sued out the writ.

SEC. 2576. [In relation to real property.]--Actions for the following
causes must be brought in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof, is Situated: I
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate therein,or for the determin
ation of such rightor interest;
2. For the partition of real property;
3. For in'uries to real property. _
See. 257 . Actions for inJui'ies to real property may he brought either in
the county where the property is, or where the defendant resides. _
SEC. 2578. (As amended by ch. 126, 20th g. a.) [Mortgage; mechanic‘s lien?
-—An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property, or for the sale 0
real property under an encumbrance or charge, or to enforce a mechanic's hen on
real property shall] brought in the county in which the property to be affected,
or some part t ere-of, is situated.

SEC. 22579. [Fines: forfeitures: against oﬂicers and on ofﬁcial bonds]
—Actions for the followmg causes must be brought in the county where the cause,
or some part thereof, arose:
1. An action for the recovery of a ﬁne, penalty or forfeiture imposed by a stat
ute, except that when the oﬂ'e'nse‘for which the claim is made was committed on a
water course or_ highway which is the boundary of two counties, the action may
be brought in either of them; _ _
2: An action against a public ofﬁcer or person specially appomted to execute
his duties, for-an act done by him _in yirtue or under color of his otﬁee, or against
one who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of
such oﬂicer,_or for neglect of ofﬁcial duty; _
3. An action on the ofﬁcial bond of a public ofﬁcer.

SEC. 2580. [Attachment of property.]-—An action, when aided by attach
ment, may be brought in any county of the state wherever any part of the prop
erty sought to be attached may be found, when the detendanhwhose property is
thus pursued is anon-resident of this state. If such defendant is a resident of this
state, such action must be brought in the county of his resrdence, or that in which
the contract was to be performed, except that if an action be duly brought against
such defendant in any other county by virtue of any provisions of this chapter,
then such action may, if legal cause for an attachment exist, be aided by an
attachment.

SEC. 258i. [Place of contracL]- When, by its terms, a written contract is to be
performed in anyparticular place,‘act10n for breach thereof may be brought in
the county wherein such place is Situated.

SEC. 2552- [Common carr1ers.]-Actions may be brought against railway
corporations, the owners of mail stages, or other line of coaches or cars, including
express companies, car companies, telegraph and canal companies, and the lessees,
companies, or persons operating the same, in any county through which the line
or road thereof passes, or is operated. 

Sec. 2083. Construction of railways, telegraphs or canalsJ—An
action may be rought ngaiust any corporation, company or person engaged 111
the construction of a railway, telegraph line or canal, on any contract relating
thereto, or to any part thereof, or for damages in any manner growing out of the
work thereon, in any county where such contract was made, or performed in whole
or in part, or where the work was done out of which arose the damage claimed.

SEC. 2584. [Insurance companies.]—Insurance companies may be sued in
any county in which is kept their principal place of busrness, in which was made
the contract of insurance, or in which the loss insured against occurred.

SEC. 2585. $01ﬁce: agency: suits growing out of.]—When acorporation
company or in ividual, has an ofﬁce or agency 1n any county for the transaction
of business, any suits growing out of or connected With the busmess of that oﬂice
or agency may be brought in the county where such olﬁce or agency is located.

SEC. 258 . [Place of l‘esidence.]—Except where otherWise prov1ded herein,
Personal actions must be brought in a county wherein some ot the defendants
actually reside. But if none of them have any resudence Within this state, they may
.sued in any county wherein either of them may be found. But in all actions
upon negotiable paper, except when made payable at a: particular place in which
any maker of such paper, being a resident of the state, is made defendant, the
place of trial shall be limited to a county wherein some one of the makers of such
paper resrdes.

SEC. 2587. _ [Non-resrdentsJ—W here an action embraced in the preceding section is avainst several defendants, some of whom are residents, and others non
residents, 0? the county, and the action is dismissed as to the residents, or judg
ment is rendered in their favor, or there is a failure to obtain judgment against
such residents, such non-residents may, upon motion, have said cause dismissed
with reasonable compensation for trouble and expense in attending at the wrong
county, unless they, having appeared to the action, fail to object before judgment
is rendered against them.

SEC. 2588. [Change of resudcnce after suit brought.]—If, after the com
mencement of an action 111 the county of the defendant’s residence, he removes
therefrom, the service of notice upon him in another county shall have the same
effect as if it had been made in the county from which he removed. ‘
Sec. 2589. [Eﬁ‘ect, 1f brought in wrong county.]——If a suit be brought 1n
a wrong county, it may there be prosecuted to a termination, unless the defendant,
before answer, demand a change of place of trial to the proper county. In which
case, the court shall order the same at the costs of the plaintiﬁ', and may award the
defendant a reasonable compensation for his trouble and expense in attending at
the wrong county. And if the sum so awarded, and costs, are not paid. to the clerk
at shore to be ﬁxed by the court, or if the papers in such case are not ﬁled by the
plaintiff in the court to which the change is ordered ten days before the ﬁrst day
of the next term thereof, or if ten days do not intervene between the making of
said order and the ﬁrst day of the next term of said court, ten days preceding the
ﬁrst day of the next succeeding term thereof, in either event the action shall be
deemed to be discontinued.

SEC. 2590- [When granted.]—A change of the place of trial in any civil action
may he had in any of the following cases:
1. Where the county in which the action is pending is a party thereto, if the
motion is made by the party adversely interested, and the issue be triable by jury;
2. Where the judge is a party, or is directly interested in the action, or is con
gected by blood or afﬁnity with any person so interested nearer than the fourth
agree;
3. (As amended by ch. 94, 20th 9. 0.) Where either party ﬁles an aﬁidavit veri
ﬁed by himself and three disinterested persons, not related to the party making the
motion nearer than the fourth degree, nor standing in the relation of servant,
agent, or employs of such party, stating that the inhabitants of the county, or the
judge, is so prejudiced against him, or that the adverse party or his attorney has
such an undue inﬂuence over the inhabitants of the county that he cannot obtain
a fair trial. [But when either party ﬁles an afﬁdavit as provided by this subdi
vision the other party shall have a reasonable time to ﬁle counter atﬁdavits, and
the court or judge, in the exercise of a sound discretion, must decide whether a
change shall be granted, when fully advised, according to the very right and merits
of the matter.
The court may in its discretion cause the aﬂiants on either side to be brought
into court for examination upon the matters contained in their said allidavits.]
4. By the written agreement of the parties and their attorneys.
5. If the issue is one triable by jury, and it is made apparent to the court or
judge that a jury cannot be obtained in the county where the action is pending,
then, upon the application of either party, a change of lace of trial shall be
granted to the nearest county in which a 'ury can be obtained?
(As amended by ch. 118, 17th 9. a.) [Plumber of changes limitedJ—jPro
aided, however, that not more than two changes to either party of the place 0 trial
shall be allowed for any of the causes enumerated in this section; nor shall a change
of venue from the county be allowed in case of appeal from a justice of the peace;
nor shall achange of the place of trial he allowed when the issue can only be tried
to the court, for any objection to the inhabitants of the county, or for the objec
tion that the adverse party or his attorney has such an undue inﬂuence over the
inhabitants thereof that he cannot obtain a fair trial; and
Provided, that after any change of venue has been taken as herein provided, and
a trial had and the jury been discharged or a new trial has been granted them. a
subsequent change of venue may be taken for any of the causes mentioned in said section.

SEC. 2591. [To whom and when made.]——The application for a change of
place of trial may be made either to the court or to the judge in vacation, and, if
made in term time, shall not be awarded until issue be made up unless objection be
to the court; nor shall such application be allowed after a continuance, except for
accuse not known to the aﬁiant before such. continuance; and after one change,
111C; party is entitled to another for any cause in emstence when the ﬁrst change was
0 tained.

Sec. 2592. [To whiit county or court.]——The place of trial shall be changed
to some other county in the same district or circuit, unless the objections are to
the judge, or the objections made appear from the afﬁdavits to exist as to all the
other counties in the district, and shall be to the most convenient county to which
no objection is mode. Whenever the change shall be granted on account of the
prejudice or disability of the judge, the action shall be transferred to the district
or circuit court of the same county, unless objections exist as to both the judges, in
which case it shall be transferred to the most convenient county in some other
district or circuit.
Sec. 2593. [How made during vacation.]—-If an application for the change
is made in vacation, ﬁve days’ notice of the same, with a copy of the aiﬁdawt,
shall be served on the adverse party or his attorney; and if the judge grant the
change, he shall forthwith transmit his order to the clerk, together with all the
apers used before him.
Sec. 2594. When deemed perfected: consequences of failure.]—lf the
order for the c ange is granted in vacation, the same must be perfected by noon
of the second day after the order is received by the clerk, and, if granted during
term time, the some must be perfected by the morning of the second day there
after or before the cause is reached for trial, if sooner reached, or such change,
whether granted in term or vacation, will be deemed waived and the cause tried as
though no such order has been granted. When the change has been perfected or
agreed to by the parties, the clerk must forthwith transmit to the clerk of the
proper court, strongly enveloped and sealed, a. transcript of the record and pro
ceedings, with all_the original papers, having ﬁrst made out and ﬁled in his ofﬁce
authenticated copies of such original papers; but if less than all of several plaint
iﬂ's or defendants take such change, the original papers shall not be so transmitted.
but zi copy thereof. And as to those who take no change, the cause shall proceed
as if none had been taken, except that if the place of trial is changed to a comb
in the same county, no transcript or copies shall be made out, but the original
papers shall be transmitted.

Sec. 2595. [Uocketedj—Upm ﬁling such transcript and papers in the oﬁice of
the clerk of the court to which the same were certiﬁed, the cause shall be docketed
without fee and proceeded in as though it had originated therein.
SEC- 9596- [Costs 0f change.]——Unless the change be granted under subdi
visions two, four or ﬁve, of section two thousand, ﬁve hundred and ninety of this chapter, all costs caused thereby or that are rendered useless by reason thereof,
shall be paid by the applicant, and the court, or judge, at the time of making the
order, shall be designated in general terms such costs, and no change shall be
deemed perfected until such costs are paid.

SEC. 2597. [Jury to be paid by county from which change is taken]—
Where the place of trial in any civil action is changed to any county other than
that in which the same was properly commenced, where the trial thereof takes
placezt a regular term, and occupies more than one calendar day, the judge try
ing said case shall certify the number of days so occupied, and the county in
which the case was originally commenced shall be liable to the county where the
senile trieg for the sum of two dollars per, day for each juryman engaged in the
trim t ereo .
SEC. 2598. {In case special term is held.]—Where a special term of any
court is held or the trial of an action contemplated in the preceding section, the
court trying the same shall mahe out and certify the amount of county expenses
incurred in the trial of each case, and the same shall be a' legal and valid claim
against the county in which the same was properly commenced.

SEC. 2599. [Original notice.]—Actions in a court of record shall be com
menced by serving the defendant with notice signed by the plaintifff or his attor
ney, informing the defendant of the name of the plaintifff, and that on or before
a date_therein named, a petition will be ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court
Whereiu suit is brought, naming it, and stating in general terms the cause or causes
Ofaction, and if the action is for money, the amount thereof, and that unless he
appears thereto and defends before noon of the second day of the term at which
defendant is required to appear, naming it, or at such other_ time as may be by rule
of such court prescribed, default will be entered against him and judgment reu
dered thereon. In all cases where the time for the commencement of the term
has been changed after the notice has been served, the defendant shall be held to
appear at the time to which such term has been so changed.

SEC. 2600. [Discontinuance.]——-If the petition is not ﬁled by the date thus
ﬁred,and ten days before the term, the action will be deemed discontinued.

SEC. 2601. [Who may sel'Ve.]—Tlre notice may be served by any person not
"a pity to the action.

Sec. 2602. [Defendant t0 appear, when.]—The defendant shall be held to
appear at the next term after service, provided:
1. He he served “within the county where suit is brought, in such time as to
leave at least ten days between the day of service and the ﬁrst day of the next
term;
‘2. He be served without the county, but within the judicial district, so as to
leave at least ﬁfteen such days;
3. He he served elsewhere, so as to leave twenty such days for every one thous
miles, or fraction thereof, extending between the places of trial and serVice,
which distance shall be Judicially noticed by the court. If not so served, he shall
be held to appear at the second term after service.

SEC. 2603. .The notice shall be served as follows:
1. By reading the notice to the defendant, or otfering to read it in case he neg
lects or refuses to hear it read, and, in either case, by delivering him personally a
copy of the notice, or 'If he refuses to receive it, offering to deliver it;
2. If not found Within the county of his residence, by leaving a copy of the
notice at his usual place of residence With some member of the family over four
teen years of age;
3. By taking an acknowledgment of the service indorsed on the notice, dated
and signed by the defendant. 

SEC. 260}. [Return, when personally served—It served personally, the
return must state the time and manner iiiid place of making the service, and that
acopy was delivered to defendant, or oifered to be delivered. If made by leaving
acopy With the family, it must state at whose house the same was left, and that it
_was the usual pl ice of residence of the defendant, and the township, town, or city
in which the house was situated, the name of the person With whom the same was
left, or a suﬂicient reason for omitting to do so, and that such person was over
fourteen years of age and was a member of the family.

Sec. 2605. [Sheriff to note when received.]—If the notice is placed in the
hands of a sheriff, he must note thereon the date when received, and proceed to
Serve the same without delay in his county, and must ﬁle the same with his return
thereon in the office of the clerk, or return the same by mail or otherwise to the
Party from whom he received it.

Sec. 2606. [Penalty for defective return: amendment of.] —If a notice be
not duly ﬁled or returned to the person from whom it was received by the sheriff, or
if the return thereon is defective, the officer making the same may be ﬁned by the
court, not exceeding ten dollars, and shall also be liable to the action of any person
aggrieved thereby. But the court may permit an amendment according to the
truth of the case.
SEC. 2607 . [How served on Sunday. ]——N0tice sh all not be served on Sunday,
unless the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, make oath thereon that personal service
will not be possible unless then made; and a notice indorsed with such afﬁdavit
shall be served by the sheriff, or may be served by another, as on a secular day. _
SEC. 2608. [Notice of _no personal claim. -_—The plaintifff may set forth in
the notice the general oblect of the action, a rief description of the property
aﬁected by it and that no personal claim is made against any defendant, naming
him, and if such defendant unreasonably defends he must pay costs.

SEC. 2609. (As amended by ch. 77, 20th 9. a.) [Return: hOW provenJ—If
service be made Within the state, the truth of the return is proven by the Signature
of the sheriff, or his deputy, and the court shall take judicial notice thereof.
made Without the state, or b one not such oﬁicer within the state, the return may
be proveu by the alﬁdaVit 0 him making the same. [Provided, that the service
may be made on any patient conﬁned in the hospitals for the insane by the super
intendent or ass1stant superintendent of such hospitals, and the certiﬁcate of such
ofﬁcer under the seal pt such hospital shall be proof of such service]

Sec. 2610. [bervrce on county: how made. -If a county is defondant._ser
vice may be made on the chairman of the board 0 supervisors or county auditor.
But no action shall be brought against any county on an unliquidated demand,
until the same has been presented to such board and payment demanded.

SEC. 2611. [How served on railway corporations.]—I_f the action is
against any corporation, or person owning or operating any railway, telegraph
liiie, canal, stages, coaches, or cars or any express company, serVice may be made
upon any general agent of any such corporation, or person wherever found, or
upon any station, ticket or other agent of such corporation, or person transacting
the business thereof in the county where the suit is brought; if there is no such
agent in said county, then service may be had upon an agent thereof transacting
said business in any other county. 

SEC. 2612. [On municipal_]-—-When the action is against a municipal corpora
tion, service may be made on the mayor or clerk, and if against any other corporap
tion, on any trustee or oﬁicer thereof, or on any agent employed in eneral man
agemcnt of its business, or on any of the last known or acting o cers of said
corporation, and if no person can be found on_ whom serv1ce can be made as pro
vided in this and the preceding section, service may be made by publication as
proridetl in other cases. 

SEC. 2613. [Agentsg servwe on.]—V_Vhen a corporation, company, or indi
i‘iilual, has, for the transaction of any business, an_oﬁice or agency in any county
other than that in which the principal resales, service may be made on any agent
0r clerk employed in such ofﬁce or agency, in all actions growmg out of or con
nected With the business of that ofﬁce or agency. 

SEC. 2614- [Minors : 110W SBPVQdJ—When the defendant is a minor under the
age of fourteen years, the service must be made on him, and also on his father, or
mother, or guardian, and if there be none of these within the state, then on the
person within this state having the care and control of such minor, or with whom
he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed. When the minor is over
fourteen years of age, service on him shall be sufﬁcient.

SEC. 2615. [11183110. ——When a defendant has been judicially declared to be
of unsound mind, or who is conﬁned in any state lunatic asylum, service may be
made upon him and upon his guardian, and if he have no guardian, then upon his
wife or the person having the care of him, or with whom he lives, or the keeper
of the asylum in which he may be conﬁned.
Sec. 2616. [When conﬁned in state lunatic asylum.]—When it becomes
necessary to serve personally with a notice or process of any kind, a erson who
is conﬁned in any state lunatic asylum, the superintendent thereof she. I acknowl
edge service of t e same for such person, whenever, in the opinion of such super
intendent, personal service would injuriously affect such person, which fact shall
be stated in the acknowledgment of service. A service thus made shall be deemed
a personal one on the defendant.
SEC. 2617. [Prisoner in penitentiary.]—-When the defendant is a prisoner
in the penitentiary, a copy of the petition must be delivered to the prisoner at the
time the notice is served, and a copy of the notice must be delivered to the hus
band or wife of the defendant, if any such there be within this state.

SEC. 2618. [In what actions and when made.[—Service may be made by
publication, when an afﬁdavit is ﬁled and personal service cannot be made on the
defendant within this state, in either of the following cases:
h1. In actions brought for the recovery of real property, or an estate or interest
t ereiii;
2. In an action for the partition of real property;
3. In an action for the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien, or other
incuinbrance or charge;
4. In actions to compel the speciﬁc performance of a contract of sale of real
estate, or in actions to establish or set aside a will where, in such cases, any or all of
the defendants reside outside of this state and the real property is within this
state;
5. In actions brought against a non-resident of this state or a foreign corpora
tion, having in this state property or debts owing to such defendant sought to be
taken by any of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any way;
6. In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is real or personal prop
erty in this state when any defendant has, or claims a lien of interest, actual or
contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly, or partly, in excluding
him from any interest therein, and such defendant is a non-resident of this state,
or a foreign corporation;
7. In all actions where the defendant being a. resident of the state has departed
therefrom, or from the county of his residence. with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of a notice, or keeps himself concealed therein
with like intent;
8. Where the action is for a divorce, if the defendant is a non-resident of the
state of Iowa, or his residence is unknown.

SEC. 2619. [How _made.]—-The publication must be made by publishing the
notice required in section two thousand five hundred and ninety-nine of this chap‘
ter, four_ consecutive weeks in some newspaper printed in the county where the
petition is ﬁled, and if there be none printed in such county, then in such paper
printed at the next nearest count of this state, which paper shall, in either case,
be determined by the plaintifff or is attorney.

SEC. 2620. [Defendant held to appear: proof of publicationJ—When
the foregoing provisions have been complied With. the defendant so notiﬁed shall
be required to appear as if rsonally served Within the county in which the peti
tion is ﬁled, on the day of t e last publication. Proof thereof being made by the
aiﬁdaiut of the publisher or his foreman, and ﬁled before default is taken.

SEC. 2621. [Actual SGI'VICGJ—Actual personal service of the notice, either
within or Without the state, supersedes the necess1ty of publication.

SEC. 1. [Where notice has been published prior to ﬁling petition
the court shall be deemed to have acquired full jurisdictionJ—Beit
enacted by the qeneral assembly of the state 0/ Iowa: That in all cases where an
action has been begun in any of the courts of record of this state by serving the
original notice by publication as by law provided, and said publication of'tlre orig
inal notice has been begun or completed prior to the time of the ﬁling of the peti
tion in the cause, that in each and all said cases, the court in which said cause or
action is pending shall be deemed to have acquired as full and complete jurisdiction thereof as though said petition had been on ﬁle at the time said publication
of the original notice therein was begun, or at the time the afﬁdavit, provided for
in section 2618 of the code of 1873, was ﬁled, and the service of the original notice‘
in all said causes shall be deemed a full compliance with said section 2618, and sec
tions 2619, 2620 and 2621 of the code of 1873.

Sec. 2622. [Petition veriﬁed: statement of.]—1n actions where it shall be
necessary to make an unknown person defendant, the petition shall be sworn to,
and shall state what interest such person has or claims to have, how the same was
derived or is claimed to have been derived, as exactly as possible, that the name
and residence of such person is unknown to plaintifff, and that he had sought dili
gently to learn the same, and thereon proceedings may be had against such person
without naming him, as follmvs:

SEC 2623. [Court to approve notice.]—The court shall approve a notice
collected from the averments of the petition, which notice shall contain the name
of the plaintifff, a description of the property, and all the allegations of the petition
concerning the interest of the unknown person, and the mode of devolution
thereof, the relief demanded, also the name of the court and the term at which
appearance must be made. Said notice must be entitled in the full name of the
plaintitl'against the unknown claimants of property, and shall be signed by the
plaintifff's attorney.

SEC. 2624. [Make order of publication.]—The court, on its approval of
said notice, shall endorse the same thereon, and order that the said notice be pub
listed in some newspaper of this state, designating such paper as shall he most
hkely to give notice to such unknown person.
SEC. 2625. [How, and for what time published.]——Such notice shall be
tied in the cause, and its contents, without more, shall be published in the paper
designated, at least weekly, for six successive weeks, and at the end of said time
service shall be deemed complete, and such unknown person in court at the next
term thereafter.
Sec. 2626. The mode of appearance may be:
1. By delivering to the plainti ‘or the clerk of the court, a memorandum in
writing to the effect that the defendant appears, signed either by the defendant in
person, or his attorney, dated the day of its delivery, and to be ﬁled in the case;
2. By announcing to the court an appearance, which shall be entered of record;
3. By an appearance, even though specially made, by himself or his attorney,
for any purpose connected with the cause; or for any purpose connected with the
service or insufﬁciency of the notice. And an appearance, special or other, to
object to the substance or service of the notice, shall render any further notice
unnecessary; but may entitle the defendant to a continuance, if it shall appear to
the court that he has not had the full timely notice required of the substantial
cause of action stated in the petition.
[4. (As amended by ch. 10, 15th g. a.) No member of the general assembly
shall be held to appear or answer in any civil action or special proceeding, in any
court of record, or inferior court, while such general assembly is in session, nor
shall any person be so held to answer or ap at in any such court, on the 1st day
of January, the 4th day of July, the 25tlie day of December, or on any day of
thanksgiving appointed by the president of the United States or by the governor
of this state]

SEC. 2627. [Mode of procedural—When the action is against two or more
defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not all of them, the
plaintitl‘ may proceed as follows: '
1. If the action be against defendants jointly, or jointly and severally, or sev
erally liable only, he may, Without prejudice to his rights in that or any other
action against those not served. proceed against those served in the same manner
as if they were the only defendants; if he recover against those jointly liable only,
he may take judgment against all thus liable, which may be enforced against the
jointproperty and separate property of those served, but not against the separate
property of those not served, until they have had opportunity to show cause why
judgment should not be enforced against their separate property; or,
2. The plaintifff may continue till the next term, and proceed to bring in the
other defendants; but at such second term the suit shall proceed against all who
have been served in due time, and no further delay shall be allowed to bring in the
others, unless all that appear shall consent to such delay.

SEC. 2628- [Pending of action: notice to “ﬁfth parties.]—When a petition
has been ﬁled aﬂ'ecting real estate, the action is pending so as to charge third per
sons with notice of its pendency, and while fpending, no interest can be acquired
by thud persons in the subject matter thereo as against the plaintifff ’s title, if the
real property aﬁ‘ected be situated in the county where the petitlon is ﬁled.

SEC. 2629. [When roperty is Situated _in another county.]—When any
part of real property, t e_sub;ect of an action, is situated in any other county then
the one In. which the action is brought, the plaintiﬁ must, in order to affect third
persons with constructive notice of the pendency of the action, ﬁle with the clerk
of the district court of such county 3 notice of the pendency of the action, con
tnining the names of the parties, the object of the action, and a description of the
property in the county aﬂ'ected thereby. and from the time of such ﬁling only shall
the pendency of the action be constructive notice to subsequent vendees or incum
brancers thereof, who shall be bound by all the proceedings taken after the ﬁling
of such notice, to the same extenta‘iif a party to the action, and the clerk of such
county must, immediately on receipt of such notice, index and record the some 1n
the encumbrance book. And Within two months after the determination of such
action, there shall be ﬁled With such clerk a certiﬁed copy of the ﬁnal order, judg'
ment, or decree, who shall enter and index the same in the manner as though
rendered in that county, or such notice of pendency shall cease to be constructive
notice.

SECTION 2630. [Ordinary and equitable cannot be.]—Causes of action of
whatever kind. Where each may be prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings,
provided that they be by the same party, and against the same party in the same
rights, and 1f suit on all may be brought and tried in that county, may be joined in
the same petition; but the court, to prevent confusion therein, may direct all 01'
any portion of the issues joined therein to be tried separately, and may determine
the order thereof. 

Sec. 2631. [Plaintlﬁ' may strike out cause.]—-The plaintiﬁ‘ may strike from
his petition any cause of action or any part thereof, at any time before the ﬁnal
submission of the case to the jury or to the court, when the trial is by the court.

SEC. 2632. [S0 may court.]—The court, at any time before the defense, shall
on motion of the defendant, strike out of the petition any cause or causes of action
im‘groperly jomed With others. 

Sec. 2633. [Misjoinder W8iV6d.]——All objections to the misjomder of causes
of actions shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provrded in the last section.

SEC. 2634. [What done when dismissed for misijoinderJ—Vt hen a motion
is sustained on the ground of misjoinder of causes of action, the court, on motion
of the plaintifff, shall allow him, with or Without costs in its discretion, to ﬁle
several petitions. each including such of said causes of action as might have been
ﬁned, and action shall be docketed for each of said petitions, and the same shall
proceeded in without the further service, and the court shall determine, by
order, the time of pleading therein. 

SEC. 26:35. [Demur or answer: when.]—-The defendant shall, in an action
commenced in a court of record, demur, answer, or do both as to the original
petition before noon of the second day of the term.

SEC. 2636. {SameJ—Each party shall demnr, answer or reply to all subsequent
pleadings, inc uding amendments thereto and substitutes therefore, before noon 0f
the day succeeding that on which the pleading is ﬁled. But all pleadings must be
ﬁled by the time the cause is reached for trial.

SEC. 2637. [Time of pleadng-TM day on which the judge actually opens
court shall be, for the purpose of timing the pleading, considered the ﬁrst day of
the term.
SEC. 2638- [Extension 0f.]—The court may extend the time of ﬁling any
pleading beyond that herein ﬁxed, but shall do so with due regard to making up
issues at the earliest day possible.

Sec. 2639. [Motions assaihng pleading.]—All motions assailing a pleading
shall be in writing, and ﬁled before an answer or reply has been ﬁled to the plead:
ing assailed, except as provided in section two thousand six hundred and ﬁfty or
this chapter, and shall specify the causes on which they are founded, and none
other shall. be argued or considered. But one motion and one demurrer assailing
such pleading shall be ﬁled, unless such pleading be amended after the ﬁling of a
motion or demurrer thereto

Sec. 2640. A demurrer or motion assailing any pleading or count thereof,
suspends the necessnty of ﬁling any other pleading to such pleading or count until
the same has been determined, and the next pleading shall be ﬁled by noon of the
day succeeding such determination.
Sec. 2641. All motions and demurrers shall be argued and submitted when
ﬁled, unless the adverse party 1s absent or desires time, in which case it shall be
extended until the morning of the succeeding day unless the cause is sooner reached
for trial.

SEC. 2642. _Ll\0t Withdl'awn._I—A motion or demurrer once ﬁled, shall not be
Withdrawn Without the consent of the adverse party entered thereon, or of the
court.
SEC. 2643. [Appearance d00ket.]—The ﬁling of a pleading or 'motion in the
clerk's otﬁce during a term, and a memorandum of such ﬁling made in the appear
once docket within the time allowed, shall be equivalent to ﬁling the same in open
court.
SEC. 2544. [Forms of action abolished.]—All technical forms _of action
and pleading, all common counts. general issues, and all ﬁctions are abolished, and
hereafter the forms of pleading in civil actions, and the rules by which their suﬂi
army 15 to be determined, are those prescribed in this code. 

SEC. 2645. [Headings deﬁned.]—— Pleadings are the written statements by
the parties of their respective claims and defenses, and are:
l. :l‘he petition of the plaintiﬁ';
2. rue demurrer and answer of the defendant;
3. The demurrer or reply of the plaintifff;
i. The demurrer of the defendant. 

Sec. 2646. The tition must contain: _ _ _
1. The name of he court and county in which the action is brought;
2' The names of the parties to the action, plaintifffs and defendants, followed
by the word "petition" it the proceedings. are ordinary, and by the words “ peti
tion iii equity " if the'proceedings are equitable; . . ,
3. A statement of the facts constituting the plaintifff 4s cause of action.
4. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff consuiers himself entitled
and if such demand be for money, the amount thereof must be stated.
5. [Separate couuts.]—-Where the petition contains more than one cause of
action, each must be stated wholly in a count or diviSiou by itself, and must be
suﬁioient in itself; but one prayer for judgment may include a sum based on all
counts looking to a money remedy.

6. In a petition by equitable proceedings, each division shall also be sepa
rated into paragraphs, numbered as such for more convenient reference, and each
paragraph shall contain, as near as may be convenient, a complete and distinct
statement.
SEC. 2647. [Amended before answer.]—The plaintiti' may amend his petition
without leave at any time before the answer is ﬁled, without prejudice to the pro
ceedings already had; but a notice of such amendment shall be served on the
defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to answer
or demur thereto as he had to the original petition.

Sec. 2648. [Cause 0f.]—The defendant may demur to the petition only where
it appears on its face, either:
_ 1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or the sub
ject ot the action; 01‘. _ "
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or, _
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for the same
cause; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifffs or defendants; or, _
d 5. That the facts stated in the petition do not entitle the plaintifff to the relief
emanded;
6. That the petition, on the face thereof, shows that the claim is barred by the
statute of limitations; or fails to show it to be in writing where it should be so
evidenced; or, if founded on an account, or writing as evidence of indebtedness,
and neither of such writings, account, or copy thereof is incorporated into or
attached to such pleading, or a sufﬁcient reason stated for not dorng so.

Sec. 2649. [Speci causes and number.]-—A demurrer must specify and
number the grounds 0' objection to the pleadin , or it Will be disregarded; and it
shall not be sufﬁcient to state the objection in t e terms of the preceding section,
except that a demurrer to an equitab e petition for the ﬁfth reason of said section
may be stated in the terms thereof.

SEC. 2650. [Waiver.]—When any of the, matters enumerated as grounds of
demurrer do not appear on the face of the petition, the objection may be taken by
answer. If no such objection is taken, it shall be deemed waived. If the facts
stated by the petition do not entitle the plaintifff to any relief whatever, advan
tage may be taken of it by motion in arrest of judgment, before judgment is
entered.

SEC. 2651_ The defendant may demur to one or more of the several causes
of action alleged in the petition, and answer as to the resume.

SEC. 2652. [N0 joinder.]—-The opposite party shall be deemed to join in a
demurrer, whenever he shall not amend the pleading to which it is addressed.
SEC. 2653. [Answer after.]—Up0n a demurrer being overruled, the party
demurring may answer or reply.
SEC. 2654. [Failure t0_amend: eﬁ'ect 0f.]—Up0n a decision of a demurrer,
if the unsuccessful party fail to amend or plead over, the same consequences shall
ensue as though averdict had passed against the plaintifff, or the defendant had
made default, as the case may be.

SEC. 2655. The answer shall contain:
1. The name 0f the court of thecounty, and of the plaintifffs and defend
ants, but_wheu there are several plaintifffs and defendants, it shall only be neces
sary to give the first name of each class,_with the words, and others;
2. A general denial of each allegation of the petition, or else of any knowl
edge or information thereof sufﬁcient to 'form a belief.
3. A speciﬁc denial of each allegation of the petition controverted by the
defendant, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
4. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense;
5. A statement of any new matter constituting a counterclaim;
6. [Several defenses.]———The defendant may set forth in his answer as many
causes of defense, counterclaim, whether legal or equitable, as he may have.

SEC. 2656. [Ofguardian.]——The guardian of a minor, or person of unsound
mind, or attorney for a person in prison, must deny 1n the answer all the material
allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.
SEC. 2657. [Divrsions 0f.]—-Eiicli aﬂirmative defense shall be stated in a distinct division of the answer. and must be suﬁicient in itself, and must intelligibly refer
to that part of the petition to which it is intended to apply.

SEC. 2658. [N0 prayer 1n defense.]—ln the defense part of an answer or
re 1y, it shall not be necessary to make any prayer for judgment.

SEC. 2659. [HOW stated.]—Each counterclaim, must be stated in a distinct division, and must he: _
1. When the action is founded on contract, a cause of action also arising on
contract, or ascertained _by the decision of a court; or,
2. cause of action in favor of the defendants, or some of them, against the
plaintifffs, or some of them, arismg out of the contracts or transactions set forth in
the petition or connected with the subject of the action; or,
3. Any new matter constituting a cause of_ action in favor of the defendant, or
all of the defandants, if more. than one. against the plaintifff, or all of the plaint
iﬂ's, if more than one, and which the defendant or defendants might have brought
when suit was commenced or which was then held, either matured or not, if
matured when so pleaded.

Sec. 2660. [Equitable matter,]—Au equitable division must also be separated
Into paragraphs, and numbered as required in regard to an equitable cause of
action in the etition.
SEC. 2661. Co-makep or 5u1~ety_]——A co-maker, or surety, when sued alone,
may, with the consent of his co-maker or principal, avail himself by way of coun
terclaim, of a debt or liquidated demand due from the plaintifff at the commence
ment of the suit to such co-maker, or principal, but the plaintifff may meet such
counterclaim in the same way as if made by the co-maker or principal himself.
5% note to section 2659, from Reeves 2:. Chambers at al., 67 Iowa, 81.
SEC. 2662. [New party_]—When a. new party is necessary to a ﬁnal decision
npouacounter—claiin, the court may either permit such party to be made, or direct
that it be stricken out of the answer and made the subject of a separate action.
SEC. 2663. [Cross petition.]—-When a defendant has a cause of action affecting
the subject matter of the action against a co-defendant, or a person not a. party to
the action, he may in the some action ﬁle a cross petition against the co-det‘endant
or other person. The defendants thereto may be notiﬁed as in other cases, and
defense thereto shall be made in the time and manner prescribed in regard to the
Onglnal petition, and with the same right of obtaining prOVIsional remedies appli
cable to the case. The prosecution of the cross petition shall not delay the trial
f the originalaction, when a judgment can be_rendered therein that will not
pr‘eaudice the rights of the parties to the cross petition.

SEC. 2664. [Demnrrer t0 answer.]——W_hen the acts stated in the answer,
or any count or division thereof, are not sufﬁcient to constitute a. defense or coun
ter-claim. the adverse party may demur, and shall he held to the same certainty in
the statement of the grounds therefore as obtains in a demurrer to the petition.

SEC. 2665. [When necessary.]—There shall be no reply except:
1. Where a counterclaim is alleged; or,
2. Where some matter is alleged in the answer to which the laintiff claims to
have a defense, by the reason of the enistence of some fact whic avoids the mat
ter alleged in the answer.

SEC. 2666. [Statement 0ﬁ1—When a reply must be ﬁled, it shall consust of:
1. A general or speciﬁc denial of each allegation or counterclaim controverted,
or any knowledge or information thereof SUlﬁClelll; to form a belief; or,
2. Any new matter not inconsistent With the petition, constituting a defense to
the matter alleged in the answer; or the matter_ in the answer may be confessed,
and any new matter alleged, not inconsistent With the petition, which avoids the
same.

SEC. 91667- lAny number of defenses stated,]—Any number of defenses,
negative or afﬁrmative, are pleadable to a_counterclaim, and each afﬁrmative mat
terof defense in the reply shall be sufﬁcient in itself, and must intelliginy refer
to the part of the ans-Wer to which it is intended to apply. A division of equitable
matter must also be separated into paragraphs and numbered as required in case
of such matter in the answer. _
SEC. [Demurrer t0,]—-When the facts stated in the reply do not amount
to a suilicient defense, the defendant may demur, subject to the same require
ments of certainty in statements of grounds thereof as obtain in demurrer to the
petition.

SEC. 2669. [When veriﬁed subsequent pleadings must be.]—Every plead
lllg must be subscribed by the party or 1118 attorney, urid when any pleading in a
case shall be veriﬁed by aﬂidavit, all subsequent pleadings, except demurrers, shall
beveriﬁed also; and in all cases of veriﬁcation of a pleading, the affidavit shall be to
the elfeet that the alﬁant believes the statements thereof to be true.

SEC. 2670. [l‘orporation.]—~Where a corporation is a party, the alﬁdant may
be made by an oﬂicer thereof.
SEC. 2671. [U mth 1nterest.]-—When there are several parties united in inter
est, the aﬁidavit may be made by any one of them.
SEC. 2672. [By agent or attorney.]——1f the pleading be founded on a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in posses
sion of the agent or attorney, the atﬁdant may be made by such agent or attorney,
so far as relates to the statement of the cause of action thereon; but when relief
is asked other than a money Judgment or decree of foreclosure, the afﬁdavit must
contain averments showmg competency as herein provided.

SEC. 2673. [By any person knowmg the facts.]—If the statements of a
pleading are known to any person other than the party, such person may make
the affidavit, which shall contain averments showing aﬂiant competent to make
the same.

Sec. 2674. [Counter-claim may be.]—Wheret11e petition is not veriﬁed. and
the answer contains a counterclaim, the same may be veriﬁed apart from the
defense part of the answer, and the foregoing provisions are applicable to the
counterclaim as if the same were a separate pleading.

SEC. 2675. [Gnardianz executor: prisoner.]—Veriﬁcation shall not be
required to any pleading of a guardian, executor, or prisoner in the penitentiary,
nor to any pleading controverting the answer of a garnishee, nor to one grounded
on an injury to the person or the character.
SEC. 2676. [When cannot be required.]—~When it can be seen from the
pleading tobe answered, that an admission of the truth of its allegations might
subject the party to a criminal prosecution, no veriﬁcation shall be required.
SEC. 2677. [Effect if D011 veriﬁed.]——If a pleading be not duly veriﬁed, it may
he struck out on motion; but such defect will be deemed waived if the other party
respond thereto, or proceed to trial without such motion.
A defective veriﬁcation to a pleading is waived by pleading thereto without objection.
Hughes r. Felt", 18 lows, 142.
Sec. 2678. [When not amount claimed.]—The veriﬁcation of the pleading
does not apply to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on contract,
express or implied, for the payment of money only.
SEC. 2679. [ProotZ]——The veriﬁcation shall not make other or greater proof
necessary on the side of the adverse party.

SEC. 2630. _[Amendments 11013 verlhed.]_——Courts _may permit the amend
ments authorized by this chapter to be made without being veriﬁed, unless a new
and distinct cause of action or counterclaim is thereby introduced.

SEC. 2681. [Statements of petition.]_—In an action for slanders or libel, it
shall not be necessary to state any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff of any defamatory matter out of which the cause of
action arose, or that the matter was used in a defamatory sense; but it shall be
sufﬁcient to state the defamatory sense in which such matter was used, and that
the same was spoken or published concerning the plaintiﬁ'.

SEC. 2682. [Of answer in a. d for other torts.]——In an action brought to
recover damages for an Injury to person, character, or property. the defendant
may set forth _in a distinct division of his answer, any facts of which evidence is
legally admissible to mitigate or otherWise reduce the damages, whether a com
plete defense or justiﬁcation be pleaded or not, and he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances whether he provoke the defense or justiﬁcation or not,
and n0 mitigating circumstances shall beproved unless plead, except such as are
shown by, or grow out of, the testimony introduced by the adverse party; and iii
actions for slander or libel, an unproved allegation of the truth of the matter
charged. shall not be deemed proof of malice, unless the jury on the whole case
ﬁnd that such defense was made With malicious intent.

SEC. 2683._ [Any person who has an interest may.]—_—Any person who has
an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of the parties to
the action, or against both. may become a party to an action between other per
sons, either by joining the plain tiﬂ‘ in (313.1111ng what is sought by the petition, or
by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claim of the plaintifff, or by demand
ing any thing adversely to both the plaintifff and defendant, either before or after
mus has been joined in the cause and before the trial commences.

SEC. 2684. [Cannot delay main actloilJ—fThecourt shall determine upon the
intervention at the same time that the action is decided, and the intervenor has no
right to delay; and if the claim of the intervenor is not sustained, he shall pay all
outset the intervention.

SEC. 2685. [How aﬂ'ectedJ—The intervention shall be by petition, which must
set forth the facts on which the intervention rests, and all the pleadings therein
shall‘ be governed by the same principles and rules as obtain in other pleadings
prov/ided for in this chapter. But if such petition is filed during term, the court
shall direct the time in which an answer shall be filed thereto.

SEC. 2686. [Variance.]——No_ variance between the allegations in a pleading and
the proof is to be deemedrnaterial, unless it has actually misled the adverse party
to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever
it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must be shown by proof to
the satisfaction of the court, and such proof must also show in what respect he has
been so misled, and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended
11 on such terms as may be just.

SEC. 2687- [Same.]—When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section. the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, an
may order an immediate amendment without costs. ‘
SEC. 2688. [When material.]—Wl_ien, however, the allegation of the claim 01‘
defense to which the proof is directed is unproved in its general meaning, it shal
not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of
roof. _
SEC. 2689. [Amendments made at any time.]—The court may, on motion
of either party at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, permit such party to amend any pleadings or proceedings by adding 01
striking out the name of a party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a part)"

SEC. 9.690. [Error disregarded.]—Tbe court must, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error or defect in the proceeding which does not affect the
substantial rights of the adverse party; and n0 Judgment shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEc. 2691. [Does not entitle party to continuancej—When either party
shall amend any pleading or proceeding, the case shall not be continued in conse
quence thereof, unless the court shall be satisﬁed by afﬁdavit or otherwise, that the
adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence of such amendment.
But if the court is thus satisﬁed, a continuance may be granted to some day in the
same term, or the next term of said court.

SEC. 2692. [A mendments: 110W made.]—All matters of supplement or
amendment, whether of addition or subtraction, shall not be made by erasure or
iiitcrlinestion of the original, or by addition thereto, but upon a separate paper
Which shall be ﬁled and constitute, with the original, but one pleading. But it it
be stated in such paper that it is a substitute for the former pleading intended to be
amended. in that case, it shall be deemed such substitute, but the pleading super~
Bedtd by the substitute shall not be withdrawn from the ﬁles.

SEC. 2693. [May be annexed to pleading.]-Either party may annex to
his petition, answer or reply, written interrogatories to any one or of the adverse
parties concerning any of the material matters in issue in the action, the answer
to which, on oath, may be read by either party as a deposition between the party
interrogating and the party answering.

SEC. 2694. [What response must s_tate.]—The_ party answering shall not be
conﬁned to responding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new
matter concerning the same causes of action, which shall likewise be read as a
deposition. 

SEC. 269?. [Time Of respondng—Tha interrogatories shall be answered at
the same time the pleading to which they are annexed is answered or replied to.
unless they are excepted _to by the _adverse party; in which event the court shall
determme as to the propriety of the interrogatories propounded, and which of them
shall be answered, and Within what time such answer shall be made.

SEC. 2696. [T0 cause no delay, when.]-The trial of an action by ordinary
proceedings, shall not be postponed on account of the failure to answer interroga
tories, it the party interrogated is present in the court at the trial, so that he may
be orally examined; nor in case of absence, unless an afﬁdavit be ﬁled showmg
the facts the party believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the
party has not ﬁled the interrogatories for the purpose of delay; whereupon. if the
party will consent that the facts stated in the afﬁdavit shall be considered as
admitted by those interro ated, the trial shall not be postponed for that cause.

SEC. 2697. [Particular-it}! required. j—The party, in answering such inter
rogatories, shall distinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal
knowledge, and what is stated from information or belief merely. An unqualiﬁed
statement of a fact shall be considered as made of his personal knowledge.
SEC. 2698- [HOW V6Piﬁ€d.]—The answer to the interrogatories shall be veri
ﬁed by the aﬂidavit of the party answering, to the effect that the statements in
them made of his own personal knowledge are true, and those made from the
information of others he believes to be true.

Sec. 2699. [Upon failure to answer when taken as true.]~—Where a party
tiling interrogatories shall also ﬁle an aﬂidavit that he verily believes the subject
of the interrogatories, or any of them, is in the personal knowledge of the oppo
site party, and that his answer thereto, if truly made from such knowledge will
sustain the claim of defense, or any part thereof, and the o posite party shall fail
to answer therein within the time allowed therefore, or by t e court extended, the
claim or defense, or the part thereof, according to such afﬁdavit, shall be deemed
to besustained, and judgment given accordingly.

SEC. 2700. [Answer compelled.]—The court may compel answers to inter
rogatories by process of contempt, and may, on the failure of the party to answer
them, after reasonable time allowed therefore, dismiss the petition, or quash the
answer of the party so failing.
Sec. 2701. [Time: sum: quantity: place: denial 0f.]—-In all cases in
which a denial is made by answer or reply, concerning a time, sum, quantity or
place alleged, the party denying shall declare whether such denial is applicable to
Every; time, sum, quantity or place, and if not, what time, sum, quantity or place
e a mits.

Sec. 2702. [Time, when material: how stated.]—When time is material,
the day, month and year, or when there is a continued act, its duration must be
alleged. When time is not material. it need not be stated, and if stated, need not
be proved.
Sec. 2703. [Place: allegation.]—-It shall be necessary to allege a place, only
when it forms a part of the substance of the issue.
SEC. 2704. _ [Evidencez denial of allevationJ—Under a denial of an alle
gation, no evidence shall be introduced whidlidoes not tend to negative some fact
the party making the controverted allegation is bound to Prove.

SEC. 270; [Countsz lelSlOllS numbered.]—-The counts of the petition must
be consecutively numbered as such, and so must the divisions of the answer as such,
. and of the re ly as such.
SEC. 2706. Correction of bad pleading.]—-If any pleading do not conform
to the foregomg requirements as to form, divisions or numbering, or the distinct
or seperate statements of its cause of action or defense, the court may, on its own
motion, or that of the adverse party, order the same to be corrected on such terms
as it may impose.

Sec. 2707. [Sharp defenses stricken 07115.1—Sl18m and irrelevant answers and
defenses may be stricken out on motion, upon such terms as the court may, in its
discretion, impose. 

Sec. 2708_. LStatute, how pleaded.]——In pleading a statute, or a rightderived
therefrom, it s all be suﬂicient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of
its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof. _ _
SEC. 2709. [Rules of court.]—Evei-y court of this state shall take judicial
notice of the rules of any other court thereof, if published as directed by law.
SEC. 2710. [ Inconsistent: defenses pleaded.]—lnconsistent defenses may
he stated in the same answer or reply, and when a veriﬁcation is required, it must
be to the effect that the party believes one or the other to be true, but cannot
determine which.

SEC. 2711. [Exceptions to general law stated .1—Whenever a party claims
a right derogatory from the general law, or when his claim is founded upon an
excleption of any kind, he shall set forth such claim or such exception particularly
in is pleading.

SEC. 271). [Allegations not controvcrted admitted]_——Every material
allegation in a pleading not controverted by a subsequent_ pleading, shall, for the
purposes of the action, be deemed true. But the allegations of the answer, not
relating to a counterclaim, and of the reply, are to be eemed controverted. But
an allegation of value, or amount of damage, shall not be deemed true by a failure
to controvert it. A party desiring to admit any allegations, which by this section
would be deemed controverted, may, at an time, ﬁle a written admissmn thereof.

SEC. 2713. [Pleading made more speciﬁc: howl—If a pleading is founded
on an account, a bill of particulars thereof must be incorporated into or attached
to such pleading, veriﬁed as the pleading. and deemed a portion thereof, subject
to be made more speciﬁc on motion, and shall deﬁne and limit the proof; but may
be amended as other pleadings. The items of such bill of particulars shall be con
secutively numbered:

SEC. 271}. [Judgmentz how pleaded.]—-ln pleading a judgment, or the
determination of a court. or ofﬁcer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary
to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made.

SEC. 27155. [Conditions precedentJ-In pleading the performance of condi
tions precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts constituting such
performance, but the party may state, generally, that be duly performed all the
conditions on his part. _ _
Sec. 2716. f When action is brought in a representative capacity.]——A
plaintiﬁ' suing as a corporation, partnership, executor, guardian, or in any 0t 61'
way implying corporate. partnership, representative, or other than individual capac
ity, need not state the facts constituting such capacity or relation. but may aver
generally, or as a legal conclusmn, such capacity or relation; and where a defend
ant is held in such capacity or relation, a plaintifff may aver such capacity or rela
tion in the same general way. 

SEC. 271?. [Facts must be stated.]—lf either of the allegations contemplated
1n the three preceding sections is controverted, it shall not be suﬂicient to do so in
terms contradictory of the allegation, but the facts relied on shall be speciﬁcally
stated.

SEC. 2718. [Matters that must be specially pleaded.]-Any defense show
ing that a contract, written or oral, or any instrument sued on, is void or voidable;
or that the instrument was delivered to a person as an escrow, or showrng matter
of Justiﬁcation, excuse, dlschnrge. or release. and any defense which admits the
facts of the adverse pleading. but by some other matter seeks to avoid their legal
eiieet, must be specially pleaded.

SEC. 2119- [Irrelevant matter stricken out] —The court may, on motion
of any person aggrieved thereby, cause 1rrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken
from any pleadings, at the cost of any party whose pleading contains them.

SEC. 2720. [When pleading made more speciﬁc.]—When the allegations
of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge
or defense is not_appurent, the court may, on motion, require it to be made more
deﬁnite and certain. No plead1ng_which recites or refers to a contract shall be
deemed suiﬁciently speciﬁc unless it states whether it is in writing or not. Such
motion shall int out wherein the pleading is not sufﬁciently speciﬁc or it shall
be disregarde , and if the reason for such demand exists outside of the pleadings,
the motion must state the same and be supported by ‘aﬁidavit.

SEC. 2721. [Title of Cause not_changed.]—The title of a cause shall not be
changed in any of its stages of trend from one court to another.
SEC. 2722. .[Jlldwlttl 110tlce.]——Matters of which judicial notice is taken need
not be stated in a pleading.
Courts will take notice of the coincidence‘of days of the week with days of the month, as what
days full upon Sunday. Matters of which Judicial notice is taken need not be pleaded. This W88
the rule at common law. Clough v. Gogghis, 40 Iowa, 325, 326.
Sec. 2723. [Conveyancez how pleaded.]—W hen a. party claims by convey
ance, he may state it according to its legal effect or name.
SEC. 2724. [Estate: how'pleadedJ—It shall not be necessary to allege the
commencement of either particular or a superior estate, unless it be essential to the
merits of the case.
SEQ. 2725. [Same as t0g00ds.j——In action for injuries to goods and chattels,
their kind or s ecies shall be alleged.
SEC. 2726.. fSame as to real propertyJ—h actions for injuries to real prop
erty, the petition shall describethe property, and when the injury is to an incor
poreal hereditament, shall describe the property in respect of which the right {8
“claimed, as_well as the right itself, either by the numbers by which the property is
designated in the national survey, or by any name which it has acquired by repu
tation certain enough to identify it.

Sec. 272.7. [Malioe.]——When a party intends to prove malice to effect damages,
he must aver the same.

SEC. 2728. [Bond: breaches OfZ]—ln an action on a bond With conditions, the
party suing thereon shall notice the conditions and allege the facts constituting
the breaches relied on.

SEC. 2129- [Extent of proof required.]—A party shall not be compelled to
prove more than is necessary to entitle him to the relief asked for, or any lower
degree included therein, nor more than suﬁicient to sustain his defense.

SEC. 2730. When written instrument referred to in pleading deemed
genuinc.]— hen awritten instrument is referred to in a pleading, an the same,
or a copy thereof, is incorporated in or attached to such pleading, the Signature
thereto, and to any indorsement thereon, shall be deemed come and admitted,
unless the person whose signature the same purposts to be. s all, in a pleading or
“liltng ﬁled within the time allowed for pleading, deny the genuinencss of such
signature under oath. If such instrument be not negotia 1e, and purport to be exe
cuted by a person not a party to the proceeding, the _s1gn_ature thereto shall not be
deemed genuine or admitted, if a party to the proceeding, in the manner and within
the line before mentioned, state under oath that he has no_knowledge or information
sufﬁcient to enable him to form a belief as to the genumeness of such signature.
The person whose signature purports to be Signed to such instrument, shall, on
demand. beentitled to an inspection thereof.

SEC. 2731. [buppleniental pleading deﬁned.]—-Eithei' party may be allowed,
on motion, to make a supplemental petition, answer, or reply, alleging facts
material to the case, which ave happened or have come to his knowledge snicethe
ﬁling of the former pleading; nor shall such new pleading be considered a waiver
of former pleadings. 

Sec. 2732. [Matter in abatement: how pleaded.]—-Matter in abatement
may be stated in the answer or reply, either together with or without causes 0?
defense in bar, and no one of such causes shall be deemed to overrule the other;
nor shall a party after trial, on matter of abatement, be allowed in the same action
to answer or reply matter in bar.

SEC. 2733. [Subsequent defense: how pleaded.]~—Any defense arising
after the commencement of any action, shall be stated according to the fact, With
out any formal commencement or conclusron, andany answer which does not
state whether the defense therein set up arose before or after action, shall be deemed
to be of matter arisin before action. _ _
SEC. 2734- [001180 idation 0f actrons.]—Whe_ucver two or more actions are
pending in the same court which might have been Joined, the defendant may, on
motion and notice to the adverse' party. require him to show cause why the same
shall not be consolidated, and if no sufﬁcient cause be shown the same shall be
consolidated.

SEC. 2735. [Lost pleading.]—-If an original pleading be lost or withheld by
in one. the court may order a copy thereof to be substituted.
SEC. 2736- [Records cannot be altered.]-—-No record shall be amended or
Impaired by the clerk or other ofﬁcer of the court, or by any person without the
order of such court, or some court of competent authority.

SEC. 2737. [Issues; law and facL]—Issues arise in the pleadings, where a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the other.
hey are of two kinds:
1. 0t law;
9- 0f fact.

SEC. 2738. An issue of facts arises:
1. Upon a material allegation of fact in the petition denied by the answer;
2. Upon a material allegation of new matter presented in the answer and denied
by the reply;
3. Upon allegations of new matter in the reply, which shall be considered as
contrgvlerted by the opposite party without further pleading. Any other issue is
one of law.

SEC. 2739. Issues of law must be ﬁrst tried A trial is a judicial examination
of the issues in an action, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
SEC. 2740. Issues of fact, .10 an action in an ordinary proceeding. must be
tried by jury, unless the same is waived. All other issues shall be tried by the
court, unless a reference thereof is made.

SEC. 2741. '(As substituted by ch. as, 18th g. a.) [On oral evidence_]—-All
issues of fact in ordinaryactions shall be tried upon oral eVidence taken in open
court, except that depositions may be used as now provided by law; and, upon
appeal, no eyidence shall .go to the supreme court except such as may be neces
sary to explain any exception taken in the cause, and such court shall bear and
try the case only on the legal errors so presented.

SEC. 2742. (As substituted by ch. .35 19, _g. a. 1'. §‘ 300.) [Equitable issues
tried on written evidence.]——But‘m equitable actions wherein issue of fact; is
Jomed, all the evidence offered in the trial shall be taken down in writing, or the court
msyprder the evidence, or any part thereof, to. be taken in the form of depositions,
oreither party may, at pleasure, take his testimony, or any part thereof, by depo
sition. All the evidence so taken shall be certiﬁed by the judge at any time
wrthln the time allowed for the appeal of said cause, and be made a part of the
record, and go on appeal to the supreme court, which shall try the cause anew.

SEC. 2743. LCOHI‘I: t0_ ﬁnd, facts.]—-In all trials of fact by the court, other
than those contemplated in_ the preceding section, the court shall, if either party
request it, give his decismn in writing, stating, separately, the facts found and the
legal conclusion founded thereon; and the whole decision shall be a part of the
record, and the ﬁnding shall have the effect of a s ecial verdict.

SEC. 2'74}. [Triedat ﬁrst termJ—Exwpt where otlierWise provided, causes
shall be tried at the ﬁrst term after legal and timely service has been made.

SEC. 2745. .[Lxceptions as to equitable issues.]—-The appearance term shall
not be the trial term for equitable actions, except those brought for divorce. to
foreclose mortgages and other instruments of writing whereby a lien or charge on
property is created, or to enforce mechanics‘ lien.

SEC. 2746- Lbeparate trials: when granted.]—The court may, in its discre
tion, allow separate trials between the plaintifff and any defendant, or of any cause
of action united With others, or of any issue in an action; and such separate
trials may be had at the same or different terms of the court as circumstances
may require. 

Sec. 2747..[C‘allendar_ai_id arrangement of.]—-The clerk shall keep‘a calen
dar, distinguishing ﬁrst criminal causes, and next civil causes, and arranging each
in the order of their commencement, and shall, under the discretion of the court
or judge, apportion the same to as many days as 18 believed necessary, and, at the
request of any party to a cause, or his attorney, shall issue subpoenas accordingly.
The clerk shall furnish the court and the bar with a sufﬁcient number of printed
copies of the calendar.

SEC. 2748. [When time is asked to apply for.]—When time is asked 'for
making application for continuance, the cause shall not lose its place on the cal
endar, or it may be continued at the option of the other party, and at the cost of
the party applying therefore; for which cost, judgment may at once he entered by
the clerk unless the contrary be agreed between the parties.
SEC. 2749. [Not granted when party in fault.]—A continuance shall not
be granted for any cause growing out of the fault or negligence of the party
applying therefore; subject to this rule, it may be allowed for any cause which sat
isﬁes the court that substantial justice will thereby be more nearly obtained.

SEC. 2750- [For want of evulcnce: afﬁdavit: statement ot'J—Motious
for continuance on account of the absence of evnlence, must be founded on the
afﬁdavit of the party, his agent. or attorney, and must state:
1. The name and residence of such witness, or, if that be not known, a suﬁicieiitl
reason why not known, and also, in either case, facts showing reasonable grounds
of belief t at his attendance or testimony will be procured at the next term; '
2. Efforts, constituting due dilligence, which have been used to obtain such Wlb
ness, or his testimony; _ _
3. What particular‘ facts, as distinguished from legal conclusions, the aﬂiant
believes the Witness Will prove, and that the aﬁiant believes them to be true, and
that he knows of no other Witness by whom such facts can be fully proved,

SEC. 27,51. [Overruled or party may admit facts.]—If the application
isinsuﬁicient, it shall be overruled; if held sufﬁcient, the cause shall be continued, '
unless the adverse party will admit that the Witness, if present, would testify to
the facts therein stated, in which event the cause shall not be continued, but the
party may read as evidence of such Witness the facts held by the court to be prop
erly stated.

SEC. 2752. [Motion for: when ﬁled.]——Th_e motion must be ﬁled on the sec
ond day of the term, if it is then certain that it Will haveto be made before the
trial, and as soon thereafter as it becomes certain that it Will so need to be made,
and shallinot be allowed to be made when the cause 15 called for trial, except for
cause which could not, by reasonable diligence, have been before that time discov
ered, andiif made after the second day of the term. the afﬁdavit must state facts
constituting an excuse for the delay in making it. If time is taken when the case
iscalled to make such motion, the motion shall be made and determined as soon
is the court opens after the next ordinary adjournment.

SEC. 2753. [A_mendment.]—The application shall be amended but once,
unless by permission, to Sup ly a clerical error.
SEC. 2754. [Written objections to. l—TO such motion, both as original and
as amended, the adverse party may, at once, or within such reasonable time as
the court shall allow, ﬁle written objections stating wherein he claims that the
same is insufﬁcient. and on such motion and objections no argument shall be
heard unless the court desire it. _
SEC. 2755. [Part Of rCCOPdJ-Such motion and objections shall be a part of
the record, and error in refusing a continuance or in compelling an election, may
be reviewed.
SEC. 2756. [Notice b00k.]—No copy need be served of a motion for contin
uance or of objections thereto, but a notice of such motion shall be entered on
the notice book.
SEC. 2757. [COStSJ—Every continuance granted upon the application of
either party, shall be at the costs of such party, unless otherwise ordered by the
court.
SEC. 2758. [Parties may agree.]—The court shall grant continuance when
ever the partics agreee thereto, and provide as to costs as may be stipulated.
SEC. 2759. [Case remains on docket.]—A case continued remains for all
purposes except a trial on the facts.
SEC. 2760. [One of several parties.]—Where the defenses are distinct, any
one of the several defendants may continue as to himself.

SEC. 2761. When a jury trial is demanded, the clerk shall select twelve
jurors by lot from the regular panel.

SEC. 2762. A challenge is an objection made to the trial jurors, and is of
two kinds:
1. To the panel;
2. To an indiVidual juror.

Sec. 2763. [Parties cannot sever in.]—Where there are several partws
plaintifffs or detendants, and no separate trial is allowed, they are not allowed to
sever their challenges, but must join in them.

SEC. 2764. T0 the panel.]—A challenge to the panel can be founded only
onsmaterial eparture from the forms prescribed by statute in respect to the
drawing and return of the jury.
Soc. 2765. [When made.]——A challenge to the panel must be taken before a
juror is sworn, and must be in writing, specifying plainly and distinctly the facts
constituting the ground of challenge.
SEC. 2766. [HOW triedj—A challenge to the panel may be taken by either
party, and upon the trial thereof, the ofﬁcers, whether judicial or ministerial,
whose irregularity is complained of, as well as any other persons, may be examined
to rave or disprove the facts alleged as the ground of challenge.
SEC. 2657. [Allowance of: discharge of jury.]—lf the facts of the chal
lenge be allowed by the conrt, the jury must. be discharged and its members dis
qualiﬁed from sitting as jurors so far as the trial in question is concerned; if it be
disallowed, the court shall direct the jury to be empaneled.
SEC. 2768. [T0 jurors.]—A challenge to an individual juror is either peremp~
tory or for cause.
Sec. 2769. [When made.]——It must be taken when the juror appears and before
he is sworn, but the court may, for good cause, permit it to be taken, at any time
before the jury is completed.
SEC. 2770. [PeremptoryJ—A peremptory challenge is an objection to a juror
for which no reasons need be given. but upon which the court shall exclude him.
SEC. 2771. [Number Of: how made.]-—Each party shall have the right to
challenge peremptorily, ﬁve jurors and no more; and the parties shall challenge
alternately, commencing with the plaintiﬂ‘, and the challenges for cause being ﬁrst
sxliausted or waived, the parties shall then, in turn, in the same order, exercise the
right of peremptory challenge.

SEC. 2772. [Cause of: passed: ﬁlled after each challengeJ—After each
challenge, the vacancy shall be ﬁlled before further challenges are made, and any
new jurors thus introduced may be challenged. A challenge for cause is an objec~
hon to ajuror, and may be for any of the following causes:
1. A conviction for felony;
2. A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by statute to render a person a
competent juror;
3. Inabhty to understand the English language, unsoundness of mind, or such
defects in the faculties of mind or organs of the body as render him incapable of
performing the duties of a juror;
4. Consanguinity or aﬂinity within the ninth degree to the adverse party; ‘
5. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney and client, master
and servant, landlord and termant, or being a member of the family, or in the
employment of the adverse party.
6 Being a party adverse to the challenging party in a civil action, or having
complained against, or been accused by him in a. criminal prosecution;
7. Having alread sat upon the trial of the same issues;
8. Having serve as a grand or trial juror in a criminal case based on the same
transaction;
9. When it appears the juror has formed or expressed an unqualiﬁed opinion
on the merits of the controversy, or shows such a state of mind as will preclude
him from rendering a just verdict;
10. Being interested in a like queston with the issue to be tried.

SEC. 2773. [Challenge: how tried.]—Upon a trial of a challenge to an
individual juror, the juror challenged may be examined as a witness to prove_or
disprove the challenge, and must answer every question pertinent to the inquiry
thereon; and other evidence may also be heard.
SEC. 2774. [Samej—In all challenges, the court shall determine the law and
the fact; and either allow or disallow the challenge.
The couit is made the trier of the challenge. May 0. Elam, 27 Iowa, 265.
SEC. 2775._ [TalesmenJ—When the requisite number of jurors cannot other
wise be obtained, the sheriff shall select talesmen to supply the deﬁciency from the
body of the county.

Sec. 2776- [Persons who keep the seventh day of the week as Sun—
day protected.]——A persons wh0se religious faith and practice are to keep the
seventh day of the week as a day set apart by divine command, and dedicated to
rest and religious uses, cannot be compelled to attend as a juror on that day, and
shall, in other respects, be protected in the enjoyment of his opinions to the same
extent as those who keep the ﬁrst day of the week.
SEC. 2777. [Enemption not cause of Challenge.]—-An exemption from
service:i on a jury is not a cause of challenge, but the privilege of the person' ex
empte . _ _ _ . .
Sec. 2778. Majority verdict: struck Juryj—The parties may at any time.
either before t e jury is sworn, or after, agree to ta {e the verdict of the majOI'ltYi
which agreement being stated to the court and stated on the record to have been
made, shall bind the parties, and, in such case, a verdict signed by any seven or
more and duly rendered, when read and not disapproved by said majority, shall _1!1
every particll ﬁr, bees binding as if made by the full jury; or, when both parties
require it, a struck jury may be ordered, whereupon eighteen jurors shall be called
into the box, and the plaintiﬂ‘ ﬁrst and then the defendant, shall strike out 0116
juror in turn until each has struck out six, and the remaining six shall try the
cause.

Sec. 2779. [Pocedure after jury is sworn.]—When the jury has been
sworn. the court shall proceed in the following order:
1. The party on whom rests the burden of proof, may brieﬂy state his claim and
the evidence by which he expects to sustain it;
2. The other party may then brieﬂy state his defense, and the evidence by which
he expects to sustain it;
3. rl‘he party on whom rests the burden of proof in the whole action, must ﬁrst
produce his evidence; the adverse party must then produce his evidence;
4. The parties then will be conﬁned to rebutting evidence, unless the court, for
good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permit them to offer evidence in their
original case;
5. But one counsel on each side shall examine the same witness, and upon inter
iocutory questions, the party moving the court or objecting to testimony shall be
heard ﬁrst, the respondent may then reply by one counsel, and the mover rejoin,
conﬁning his remarks to the points ﬁrst stated, and a pertinent answer to respond
ent’s argument. Debate on the questions shall then be closed, unless the court
request further argument. 

SEC. 2780. [Argument order 0f.]—The arties may then either submit or
argue the case to the jury. In the argument, the party having the burden of the
issue, shall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose in the opening all the
points relied on in the cause; and if in the close he should refer to any new mater
ial, point, or fact, not relied upon in the opening, the adverse party shall have the
ri ht of reply thereto, which reply shall close the arfument in the case.
Vhile the right to review the question as to which party ho ds the afﬁrmative of the issue, and
has the right of opening and closing the argument, is not absolutely denied. yet there must be a
clear case of prejudice to justify a reversal upon this ground, after trail on the merits. Preston

SEC. 2781. LWaiver 0f openin .]—If the party holding the afﬁrmative waive
the opening, he shall be limited in t e close simply to a reply to his adversary's
ar umeut, otherwise the other party shall have the concluding argument.
SEC. 2782. Number of Attorneys allowed: court to arrange order.]—
Every plaintifff or defendant shall be entitled to appear by one attorney, and if
there be but one plaintitt‘ or defendant, he may appear by two, and where there
are several defendants having the same or separate defenses and appearing by the
same or different attorneys, the court shall, before argument, arrange their order.
SEC. 2783. [Argument restricted. —The court may restrict the time of any
attorney in any argument to itself, but s all not do so in any case before a jury.

SEC. 2784. [To_ be in _writin§.]-_- When the argument is concluded, either
party may request 1nstructlons to t1e_jury on pomts of law, which shall be given
or refused by the court. All instructions asked, and the charge of the court shall
be in writing.

SEC. 2785. Modiﬁcation of: how done.]—If the court refuse a written
instruction as emanded, but give the same With a modiﬁcation, which the court
may do. such modiﬁcation shall not be by interhneation or erasure, but shall b3
well deﬁned, and shall follow some such characterizing words as “changed thus,
which words shall themselves indicate that the same was refused as demanded,
Sec. 2786. [Only those given to be read: how given or refusedJ—Thv
court must read over all the instructions which it intends to give, and none other.
to the jury, and must announce them as given, and shall announce as refused,
without reading to the jury,all those which are refused, and must write the words
“given " or “refused,” as the case may be, on the margin of each instruction.
SEC. 2781 [N0 P088011 stated.]—I'r' the giving or refusal he excepted to, the
same may be without any stated reason therefore, and all instructions demanded
must he ﬁled. and shall become a part of the record.

SEC. 2188. [Charge of the court.]-~After argument the court may, also, of
its own motion, charge the jury. Such charge shall be wrltten in consecutiVely
numbered paragraphs; and no oral explanation thereof shall be allowed. The pro
visions of this section shall also apply to the instructions asked by the parties.

SEC. 2i89. [Exceptions to: how and _when _take_n.]-—Either party may
this! and ﬁle exceptions to the charge or instructions given, or to the refusal to
give any instructions offered within three days after the verdict, and may include
the same 111 a motion for a new trial, but 1n either case the instructions shall
8}}?le), the part of the charge or instruction objected to and the ground of the
0 Jection.

SEC. 2790. [View by jurv.]-—Whenever, in the o inion of the court, it 15
proper for the Jury to have a view of the real property w ich is the subject of con
troversy, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to he conducted in a body, under the charge of an oﬁicer, to the place which shell
be shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose; while
the jury are thus absent. no person other than the person so appointed shall speak
to them on any subject connected with the trial.

SEC. 3791. [Kept together in charge of olﬁcer.]+When the case is ﬁnally
submitted to the jury they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they shall be kept together, under charge of an oﬁcer until they agree
uponaverdict, or are discharged by the court. The ofﬁcer having them under
his charge shall not suﬁ'er any communication to be made to them, or make any
himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict; unless by
order of the court, and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate
to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 2792. [Court to advise jury when separating.]—If the jury are per
mitted to separate during the trial, they must be advised by the court that it is
the duty of each one of them not to converse with any other of them, or with
any person, nor to suffer himself to be addressed by any person on any subject of
the trial, and that during the trial it is the duty of each one of them to avoid, as
{in gs possible, forming any opinion thereon until the cause is ﬁnally submitted
at cm. ‘
SEC. 2793. [Jump sick: when discharged.]—If, after the empaneliiig of
thejury and before verdict, a juror becomes sick so as to be unable to perform his
duty. he may be discharged. In such case the trial shall proceed with the remain
ing jurors, provided the number has not been reduced below ten, or the court may,
in its discretion, order the jury to be discharged.

SEC. 2794. [Dischargm when .]—-The jury maybe discharged by the court
on account of any accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by the con
sent of both parties, or, when on an amendment a continuance is ordered, or after
they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no proba_
bility of their agreeing.
SEC. 2795. [Cause lie-tried; when,]—In all cases where the jury are dis
charged diiring the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried
again immediately, or at a future time, as the court ma then direct.
pianist. [Adjournment after trial begun-l— he court may else. at any
time after having entered upon the trial of any cause, where it may deem it right
for the purposes of justice, order an adjournment for such time within the term,
illlll subject to such terms and conditions as to costs and otherwise, as it may think
Just.
SEC. 279?- [What jury may take With them.]—Upon retiring for delibera
tl‘mi thejury may take with them all books of accounts,_and all papers which
are been remind as evidence in the cause, except depositions, which shall not
beau taken, unless all the testimony is in writing, and none of the same has been
Ordered to be struck out. 

SEC. 2798. [Qourt always open until verdict.]—When the jury IS absent,
the court may adjourn from time to time in respect to other business, but it is to
be deemed open ior every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury.
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. SEC. 2799. [Further_ testimony to correct mistake.]——At any time before
the cause is ﬁnally submitted to_the court or jury, either party may be permitted
by the court to give further testimony to correct an evident oversight or mistake,
but terms may be imposed upon the party obtaining the privilege.

SEC. 2800. [Information given after_ retirement OfJ—After the jury has
retired for deliberation, it they desire to be informed us to any point of law arising
in the assetle may request the oﬂicer to conduct them into court, which he shall
do, when the information required shall be given in the presence of, or after notice
to, the parties or their council.

Sec. 2801. [HOW given.]—Such information shall be in writing, and shall be
held approved unless it be excepted to in the same way as the charge. and no dis
cilssion thereon shall be allowed to either party.
SEC. 2802. [F00d and lodging.]—If, while the jury are kept together, either
during the progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court
order them to be provided with suitable food and lodging, they must be provided
by the sheriff, at the expense of the county.

Sec. 2803. [How Signed and rendered.]—The verdict must be written and
signed by a foreman chosen by the jury itself, and when agreed, the jury must be
conducted into court, their names called, and the verdict rendered by him and read
by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If any
juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again. but if no disagreement is expressed
and neither part requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and the
jury discharged mm the case.

SEC. 2804. [Polledz hOW d0ne.]—When the verdict is announced, either
party may requirethe yury to be polled. which shall be done by the court or clerk,
asking each Juror if it is his verdict. If any one answer in the negative, the jury
must be sent out for further deliberation.
SEC. 2805. Scaled verdict: eﬂect 0f.—When, by consent of the parties
and the court, is e Jury have been_permitted to seal their verdict and separate before
it is rendered, such scaling _is equivalent to a rendition and a recording thereof in
open court, nor shall such Jury be polled or permitted to disagree thereto, unless
such a course has been agreed upon between the parties in open court and entered
on the record.

SEC. 2806. [May be general _or_special.]—-The verdict of a jury is either
eneral or special. A general verdict is one in which they pronounce generally
or the plaintifff or for the defendant upon all, or upon any of the issues.

SEC. 2807._ [Special deﬁned.]—A special verdict is one in which the jury ﬁnds
facts only; it must present the ultimate facts as established by the evidence to
prove them. so that nothing remains to the court but to draw from them its con
clusions of law.
SEC. 28o8. Interrogatories: how and when submitted.]——In all actions,
the jury, iii t eir discretion, may render a eneral or special verdict; and in any
case in which they render a general verdict, they may be required by the court, and
must be so required on the request of any party to the action, to find specially
upon any particular questions of fact to be stated to them in writing, which ques
tions of fact shall be submitted to the attorneys of the adverse party before the
ar ument to the jury is commenced.


Sec. 2809. [Special controls general.]-—Wl1en the special ﬁnding of facts
ismcousistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the
court may give judgment accordingly.

SEC. 201Q. [Moneyz amount of assessedJ—th, by the verdict, either
party is entitled to recover money of the adverse party. the jury in their verdict
must assess the amout of such recovery.
SEC. 2811. [JOIIIt 01' several verdicts.]—-Where there are several plaintifffs
0r defendants, _whether the pleadings are 'oint or several, the verdicts shall be
moulded according to the facts and to suit t e exigencies of the case.
SEC. 2812. [Form 6f.]——Tl1e verdict shall be suﬂicient in form if it expresses
the intention of the jury.

SEC. 2813. [Entered 0f record.1—-The verdict shall in all cases be ﬁled With
the clerk and entered upon the record, after having been put into form by the
court, if necessary. _
SEC. 2814. Waiver of trial by.]~—Trial by jury may by waived by the
several parties t an issue of fact in the following cases:
1. By suffering default _or by failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney. ﬁled with the clerk;
3. By oral conset in open court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 2815. [Consent of parties required.]—All or any of the issues in
an action, whether of fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the consent of
the parties, either written or oral, in court entered upon the record.

SEC. 2816. [When done WithOllt consent,]—When the parties do not con
sent, the court may, upon the motion of either, or upon its own motion, direct a
reference in either of the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of mutual
accounts, or when, the account being on one side only, it shall be made to appear
to the court that it is necessary that the party on the other side should be examined
as a witness to prove the account, in which case the referee may be directed to
hﬁar and report upon the whole issue, or upon any speciﬁc question of fact involved
t erein; or,
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the
court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect; or,
3. When a question of fact shall arise in any action by equitable proceedings, in
which case the court in the order of reference shall prescribe the manner in which
the testimony shall be taken on the trial.

SEC. 2817‘ [Majority may decide_]—Where not otherwrse declared in the
order of reference, all the referees must meet to hear proofs, arguments, and to
deliberate, but a decision by the majority shall be regarded as their decision.
Sec. 2818. [Vacancies,]—When appomted by the court, the Judge thereof
may ﬁll vacancies in vacation.

SEC. 2819- [Stand in place of courtJ—The referee shall stand in the place
of the court, and shall have the same power. so far as necessary, to discharge his
duty.

SEC. 2820. [Trial by 2 OWOI‘ of.]-- he trial by referee shall be conducted in
the same manner as a trial y the court. He shall have the same power to sum
mon, and enforce by attachment, the attendance of witnesses, to punish them as
for a contempt for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or to testify, and to
administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, to take testimony by com
mission, allow amendments to pleadings, grant continuances, preserve order, and
punish all violations thereof.

SEC. 2821. [RCPOI‘tt judgment. —The report of the referee on the whole
issue, must state the facts found and t e conclusions of law, separately, and shall
stand as the ﬁnding of the court, and judgment may he entered thereon in the
same manner as if the action had been tried by the court; the report may be
excepted to and renewed in like manner.

Sec. 2822. [Finding of factsJ—Whm the reference is to report the facts,
the report shall have the effect of a special verdict. 

SEC. 2823. .[To Sign bill of exceptions.]——The_ referee shall Sign any true
bill of cxceptious taken to any ruling by him made in the case whereto any party
demands a bill of exceptions; and the party shall have the same rights to obtain
such bill as exist in the court, and such hill shall be returned With the report.
SEC. 2824. [Parties may agree onJ—In all cases of reference, the parties,
except when a minor may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons,
not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if the
parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees. not exceeding
three. who shall be persons free from exception. 01' the court may allow each party
to select one. and itself to select a third. _ '
SEC. 2825. _ [Appointed in vacation: how.]—A Judge of the court, when
acaseis pending. may, in vacation upon the written consent of the parties make
auloriler of reference. In such case the order of reference shall be written in the
written agreement to refer, and shall be ﬁled With the clerk of the court with the
other papers in the cause.
SEC. 2825. [Must be swornJ—Tho referee must make afﬁdavit well and
faithfully to hear and examine the case._and make s. Just_and true report therein
lliﬁtdl't'llllg to the best of his understanding. The afﬁdavit shall be returned with
ereport.

SEC. 2827. [Issues must be made up; court to make order as to pro
cedureJ—The order shall not be made until the case is at issue as to the parties
Whose rights are to be examined on the reference. The order may direct when the
referee shall proceed to a hearing, and when he shall make his report; but in the
absence of such direction, he shall do so on the morning of the tenth day after
the day on which was made the order of reference, and shall ﬁle his report as
soon cations; of the time thus ﬁxed or determined the parties shall take notice,
nd non-attendance of either arty within an hour of such time shall be attended
Wllh like consequences as1f t e case were in court, which consequences shall be
re iorted as any other fact or ﬁnding of the referee.

Sec. 2828. [Must accept: record made 0f.]—The referee must be called on
by the court to accept or refuse the ap ointment, and his acceptance shall be
entered of record; and he shall be under t e control of the court, who, may, on the
motion of either party, make proper orders with a view to his processing with all
due dispatch,.and the court or_ judge may, on his motion, on good cause shown,
enlarge the time for making his report.
SEC. 2829. [Issue process: administer oath.]—Any one of such referees
may issue and sign subpoenas and other process, and administer oaths necessary for
the discharge of their duties and the full exercise of all their powers.
Sec. 2830. [Mode of procedure in court _0btains.]—~Tbe form of procedure
which in the court itself regulates service, pleading, proof, trial, and the preparation,
progression, and method of each of these, shall obtain before the refereepand in
every incident of _the proceeding before him, the rights and responsibilities of
parties, or d of their attorneys, and of the referee, shall be the same as if the referee
was the court engaged in the same manner.

SEC. 283i. (_As amended by ch. 209, 18th gnu.) [What and when taken.]
An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the court, or a party acting as
t is court, on matter of law._ The party objecting to the decision must do so at the
time the same is made _(but if decision is on motion, demurrer, or judgment, excep
tion may be taken Within three days), and embod his objection in a bill of
exceptions who ﬁled during the terin or within suc time thereafter as the court
may ﬁx; but in no event shall the time extend more than thirty days beyond the
expiration of the term, except by consent of parties or by order of the judge. But
in an equitable action tried as such, no bill of exceptions shall be required.

SEC. 2832. [N0 stated form 0f.]—No stated form of exception 18 required.
the exception is to the admission or exclusion of evrdence, oral or written, the
ground of the objection must be also stated, and no other shall be regarded.

SEC. 2833. [Noted at end of deciSiOIIJ—When the decision objected to is
entered on the record, and the grounds of the exception appear in the entry, or when
any error appears of record, the exception may be taken by the party causing to be
noted at the end of the decision, or in connection therewith, that he excepts.

SEC. 2834. [Bill of: what to contain.]—An exception, when presented for
signature, need not include therein, spread out at len th, any writing ﬁled in court,
but may incorporate the some by an unmistakable reference thereto; and the
clerk, in making a transcri t of the bilfof exceptions, shall write therein at length
all of such writin include therein by reference. 

SEC. 2§3o. [Judge to Sign: on refusal other persons may.]——When the
decision is not entered on the record, or when the grounds of objection do not suf
ﬁciently appearin the record. the partyexcepting must reduce his exception towni
ing and present it to the Judge for his signature. If he deems it ture he shall Slglllt
If the judge refuses to Sign it, the _ party may procure the signature of two
bystanders, attesting that the exception is true and that the judge has refused to
sign the same, and the bill of exceptions shall then be. ﬁled wrth the clerk and
shall become a part of_ the record. But the turth of such exception may be con
troverted and maintained by ﬂlﬁdﬂVllJS, not exceeding ﬁve on each side, which
shall become partof the record. All afﬁdavits impugning the exceptions must
ﬁled within three daysfrom time of ﬁling the bill of exceptions, and all afﬁdavits
sustaining the same Within two days thereafter.

Sec. 2836. [Must be on material p01nt.]—No exception shall be regarded
in the supreme court unless the ruling has been on a material pornt and the effect
thereof prejudicial to the rights of the party excepting.

SEC. 2837. [For what causes granted.]—~A new trial is a re-examinstion in
the some court of an issue of fact. or some part or portions thereof, after verdict
byuiury, report of a referee, or a decision by the court. The former report, ver
ict, or decision, or some part or portion thereof, shall be vacated and a new trial
granted on the application of the party aggrieved for the followmg causes affect
mg materially the substantial rights of such party: .
1. IrregulaI-ity in the proceedjn s of the court, ury, referee, 0r prevailing
party, or any order of the court or re “eree, or abuse 0 discretion, by which the
Party was revented from having a fair trial;
. Misconduct of Jurypr prevailing arty. 
3. Accldent or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against.
4. Excesswe damages, appearing to have been given under the inﬂuence
of passwn or of prejudice.
5. EITO!‘ 1n the assessment of the amount of recQVery. whether too_large
or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the injury or detention of
ro erty.
p Agudgm
6. [verdict against the evidence or law.]-—That the verdict, report of
decision, is not sustained by SlllﬁGlEIlt eVidence. or is contrary to law. 
7. Newly discovered evidence material for the party applying, which he
tould not With reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the trial.
3- [Error 0f law.]—Error of law occurring at the trial, excepted to by the
party making the application.
SEC. 2838. [When to be made. j—The application must be made at the term
and Within three days after the verdict, report or decision is rendered, except for
the cause of newly discovered evidence: must be by motion upon written grounds,
and if for the causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven of the pre
ceding section, may be sustained and coiitroverted by afﬁdavits.

SEC. 2839. [Not granted on account of smallness of damagesJ—A new
trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in an action for
an injury to the person or reputation, where the damages equal the actual pecu
niary injury sustained.

SEC. 2840. The costs of all new trials shall either abide the event of the
suitor be paid by the party to whom such new trial is granted, according to the
order of the court, to be. made at the time of granting such new trial.
SEC. 2841. [Court may grant on conditions—The court may determine
nottogrant a new trial, unless certain terms or conditions named by the court
shall be agreed to by the opposite party; in the event of his agreement, to which
the terms or conditions in med shall be entered on the record, and no new trial
shall be granted if the party refuse to agree to the terms or conditions upon which
a new trial shall be awarded.

SEC. 2842. [If not omitted statement that alone may be tried.]——Upon
any motion for a new trial in arrest of judgment, or for judgment, notwithstand
mg the verdict, by reason of the non-averment of some material fact, the party
whose pleading is thus alleged defective may, if the court deem-it necessary, ﬁle a
statement of the omitted fact which, if true, would remedy the alleged defects, and
such statements shall be ﬁled before hearing of the motion and shall suspend the
some. lf the facts thus stated would not, if proved, defeat the object of the
motion, it shall be granted. If such new averments would, if proved, defeat the
object of the motion and be not. admitted, they must be denied or confessed, and
svorded by the opposite party within such time as the court shall direct unless the
same are denied by legal operation, and in such case the law of pleading and of pro
cedure applicable to actions and pleadings of that kind shall obtain, except that the
party stating the new fact shall be held the plaintifff therein, and the statement and
response shall not need to be veriﬁed.

Sec. 2843. [Same.]—If the facts thus stated he admitted or found to be true,
the party stating the same shall be entitled to such judgment as he would have
been entitled to if such facts had been stated in the original pleading and admitted
1“ Proved on the trial, together with the costs of and occasioned by the new pleading
and the proceedings therein; but if the fact be found untrue, the opposite party
shall be entitled to his costs of and occasioned by the new pleading and the pro
ceedings therein, in addition to any other costs to which he may be entitled.

SEC. 2844. [ When done without prejudice-]——An action may be dismissed,
and such dismissal shall be without prejudice to a future action:
1. By the plaintifff before the ﬁnal submission of the case to the jury, or to
the court when the trial is by the court;
2. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear when the case is called for
trial;
3. By the court, for want of necessary parties, when not made according to
the re uirement of the court;
4. y the court. on the application of some of the defendants when there are
others whom the plaintiﬂ‘ fails to prosecute with diligence;
o. By the court, for disobedience by the party of an order concerning the
u
pleadings or any proceeding in the action.

Sec. 2545. [On the merits .]——In all other cases upon the trial of the action,
the decision must be upon the merits.
SEC. 2846. [Counter-claim tried.]—-l_n any case, when a counterclaim has
been ﬁled, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his
claim, although the plaintiﬁ' may have dismissed his action or failed to appear.

SEC. 2847. [Or dismissed ,]—-The defendant may, also, at any time before the
ﬁnal submission of the cause to the jury, or_to.tlie court when the trial is by the
court, dismiss his counterclaim without prejudice. 

SEC. 2848..[l)_18mi888l in vacation: costs: JudgmentJ—Any party to any
Plum} niay dismiss the same in vacation, and the clerk shall make the proper entry
of dismissal on the record, and, if the costs are not paid, may enter judgment
against such party therefore in favor of the .party entitled thereto, and issue
execution therefore at the order of such party. The party so dismissing shall be
liable for no costs made by the other party after notice to him of such dismissal.

SEC. 2349_ [Every ﬁnal adjudication is.]——Every ﬁnal adjudication of the
nghts of the Parties in an action, is a judgment; and 511911 adjtldwation may con
sist of many judgments, one of which indgments may demrmme for the plaintifff
ordefendant on the claimpf either as an entirety; or when acluini consists of
several Parts or items, such judgment may be for ‘f’ither Of them on any Speciﬁc
pm 9, Item of such aggregate claim, and against him on the other part thereof;
0, aludgment may, in either of these ways, determine on the claims of co-parties
on the same side against each other

SEC. 2850. [May be for and against some party.]-Any party who suc
ceeds in part of his cause, or in part of his causes, and fails as to part, may have
the entry in such case express judgment for him for such part as he succeeds upon,
and against hun on the other part.

Sec. 2851. [Abatement how distinguished.]—Where matter in abatement
is plead in connection With other matters not such, the ﬁnding of the jury or court
must dlStlnng-Sh' between matter in abatement and matter in bar, and the judg
ment must, if it IS rendered on the matter in abatement, and not on the merits, so
declare.

Sec. 2852. [When special execution desired.]—Where any other than a
general executionot the (50111 mon form is required, the party must state in his plead
ing the facts entitling him thereto, and the judgment may be entered in accord
ance With the ﬁnding of the court or jury thereon. 

SEC. 2853. [Several plaintiffs and dcfendantsJ—Iu an ﬂChOTl by several
plaintifffs, or agarnst_several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, rende
judgment for or against one or more of them whenever a several judgment 18
proper, leavmg the action to proceed as to the others.
Sec. 2854. [When all not served proceed against those served}
Though all the defendants have been served with notice. judgment may he fell ered
against any of them severally, where the plaintifff would be entitled to judg'
ments against such defendants if the action had been against such alone.

SEC. 2855. [Relief risked, or that is consistent granted. ]_—The relief
snted to the plaintifff, if there be no answer, cannot exceed that whlch he shall
give demanded in his etition. But in any other case, the court may grant him
any relief consistent With the case made by the petition and embraced within the
issue.

SEC. 2856. [When part controverted.]——If only part of the claim is con
h'overted by the pleading, judgment may at any time be rendered for the part not
controverted.

Sec. 2857. [Judgment on V0rd10t_.]—When_a trial by jury has been had,
Judgment must be entered by the clerk in conformity With the verdict, unless it is
special or the court orders the case to be reserved for future argument or consid
eration.
Sec. 2858. [When verdict is specialJ—When the verdict is special, or
when there has been a special ﬁndlng on particular questions of fact or issues, or
when the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judgment
shall be entered. .
SEC. 2859. [lJudgement notwithstanding verdict.]—Wheu, by the state
rnentsot the pendings, one party 1s entitled by law to Judgment In his favor,
Judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found
agalnst such party, unless the other party. proceed as provrded in section two
thousand eight hundred and forty-two of this chapter,- 

SEC. 3560. . [Judgment for excess of counterclaimJ—It a. counter-01mm,
proved, exceed the plaint-itf’s claim so establlshed, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess; or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any
other nﬁirmstivc relief, judgment must then be given therefore.

SEC. 2861. [Judgment by Agreement.]-—Any judgment in a case pending
other than for divorce, which may be agreed upon between the parties interested
therein, may, at any time, be entered and if not done in open court, the judgment
agreed to shall be in writing, signed and ﬁled with the clerk, who shall thereupon
enter the same accordingly, and execution thereon may issue forthwith unless
therein otherwise agreed upon between the parties.

SEC. 2862. [No distinction between debt and damagesJ—h all when
where the plaintiﬁ' recovers a sum of money, the amount to which he is entitled
may be awarded him by the judgment generally, without any distinction being
therein made as to whether such sum is recovered by way of debt or damages.
SEC. 2863. gProvisions as tojuries to ﬁvern court.]—The provisions of
this chapter re ative to juries, are intended to applied to the court when acting
as a. jury on the trial of a cause so far as they are applicable and not incompatible
with other provisions herein contained.

SEC. 2864. [Judgments and orders entered of record.]—All judgements
and orders must be entered on the record of the court and must specify clearly the
relief granted, or order made in the action.
Sec. 2865. [satisfaction of _to be entered by clerk.]—Where a judgment
is satisﬁed or satisﬁed by execution or otherwise, the clerk shall at; once enters
memorandum thereof on the column left for that purpose in the judgment docket
SEC. 2866 [Complete record in land cases inade.]—In cases where the title
to land is involved and expressly settled or determined, the clerk shall make a com'
plete record of the whole cause and enter it in the proper book. But in no_ other
case need a complete entry be made except at the request of a party who Will Pay
the expense of such record.

SEC. 2867. [May be done on moti0n.]-—A defendant against whom a judgment
has been rendered, or any person interested therein, having some good matter of
discharge which has arisen since the judgment, may, upon motion, in a summary
way, have the same discharged either in whole or in part, according to the cir
cumstances.

SEC. 2868. [Fraudulent assignment of.]—The court shall have power, on
motion, to inquire into the facts attending or connected with the assignment of a
judgment, or the entry of the same for the use of any party, and to strike out such
use, or to declare such assignment void either in whole or in part, whenever such
ﬁlinment or use shall be determined to be inequitable or fraudulent, or in bad
alt .

SEC. 2869. [When made and entei'ed.]—If a. party fail to ﬁle or amend his
pleading by the time prescribed by the rules of pleading, or, in the absence of rules,
by the time ﬁxed by the court; or if, havmg plead, his answer or reply on motion
or demurrer is held insuﬂicient or is struck out. and he fail to amend or to answer
or reply further, as required by the rules of or by the .court, or if he Withdraw his
pleading without authority or permission to replead, 1udgment by default may be
triggered against him on demand of the adverse party made before such pleading
is ed.
SEC. 2870. [N0tice.]—Where no appearance 1s made, default shall not be had
until the court determines from an inspection of the record that notice has been
given as required by this code.

SEC. 2871. Default may be set aside on such terms as the court may deem
just among which _must be that of pleading issuany and forthwith, but not unless
an afﬁdavit of merits be_ﬁled and a reasonable excuse shown for having made such
default, nor unless application therefore be made at the term in which default was
entered, or it entered in vacation, then on the first day of the succeeding term.
SEC. 2872. (EWhen clerk to compute amount.]—When the action 15 fora
money deman , and the amount of the proper judgment is a mere matter of com
utation, the clerk shall ascertain the amount, but no fee shall be charged therefore.
QNhen long accounts are to be examined, the court may refer the matter. In other
cases the court shall assess the damages, unless a jury he demanded by the party
notin default. The groper amount havmg been ascertained by either of the above
methods, judgment s all be rendered therefore.

SEC. 62873. [Witness cross-cxamined.]—The party in default may appear at
the time of the assessment and cross-examine the Witnesses against him, but for
no other purpose.

SEC. 2874. [In equitable proceeding.]—When the action is of an equitable
character, the court, upon hearing of the pleadings and proofs, and hearing the
testimony offered, shall render such judgment as is consistent With the rules of
equity.

SEC. 2875. [When no personal sei'Vice.]_——A defendant served by PllbllCﬂi
tiou alone, shall be allowed at any time before judgment to appear and defend'the
action, and upon a substantial defense being declared, time may be given on reas
onable terms to prepare for trial.

Sec. 2876. [Plaintiff required to ive security.) —When judgment by
default is rendered against a defendant w 10 has not been personally served, the
court, before issuing process to enforce such judgment. may, if deemed expedient,
require the plaintifff to give security to abide the fut'iire order of the court as con
templated in the following section. _
SEC. 2877. [May move for new trial after Judgment.l—When a judg
ment has been rendered against a defendant or defendants served by publication
only and who do not appear, such defendants, or any one or more of them, or any
Person legally representing him or them, may, at any time Within two years after
the rendition of the judgment, appear in court and move to have. the action re—
tried, and, security for the costs being given, they shall be admitted to make defense;
and thereupon the action shall be re-tried as to such defendants as if there had
_ nno judgment; and, upon the new trial, the court may conﬁrm the former
ludgmentor may modify or set it aside, and may order the plaintifff to restore any
money of such defendant paid to him under it and yet remainingr in his possession,
and pny t0 the defendant the value of any such Property Whmh may have been
taken in attachment in the action or under the judgment and not restored.

SEC. 2878. [Title to property not aﬂ‘ected.]—The title of a purchaser in
good faith to any property sold under attachment or judgment, shall not be aﬁ'ected
y the new trial permitted by the preceding section, except the title of property
obtained by the plaintifff and not bought 0 him in good faith by others. 

SEC. 2319- [Copy of Judgment served on defendant.]—The plaintifff may,
at any time after the judgment, cause a certiﬁed copy thereof to _be served on a
defendant served by publication only, whereupon the period in which such defend
anthis allowed to appear and have anew trial shall be reduced to six months after
suc sernce.

SEC. 2880. [Manner of, —The service of the copy of the judgment shall be,
whether made within or wit out the state, actualand personal by delivery of copy,
and made and returned as in case of original notice. '
SEC 2881. [Personal jud merit: when rendepedJ—No personal Judgment
shall be rendered against a de endant served by publication only _who has not made
anappenrance. But a personal judgment shall _be rendered _against a defendant,
whether he appear or not, who has been served in any mode in this code provrded
other than by publication, whether served within or without this state.

SEC. 2882. (As amended by sec. 1, ch. 129, 17th g_. a.) [Of judgments_]-J udg
mentSin the supreme, district or circuit court of this state, are liens upon the real
estate mined by the defendant at the time of such rendition, and also upon all
lledmay subsequently acquire for the period of ten years from the date of the
in gment.

SEC. 1. [Code § 2882, part repealed.]—Be it enacted by the general
assembly of the state of Iowa, That the words “or in the district or circuit court
of the United States, if rendered within this state,” in section 2882 of the code,
are hereby stricken out. ‘
Sec 2. [How judgment may be made a lien. —Judgments m the district
or circuit court of the United States, if rendered in t is state. may be made liens
upon the real estate owned by the defendant, and also upon all he may subsequently
acquire. for the period of ten years from the date of the 'udgment, by ﬁling an
attested copy of the judgment in the oﬂice of the clerk oft e state district court of
the county in which the land lies; and no lieu shall attach to the lands in any
county of this state until the date of ﬁling such transcript, except in the county
wherein the judgment was rendered, in which case the lien shall attach from the
date of such rendition.
SEC. 3. [llutv 0f clerk.]—The clerk shall, on the ﬁling of such transcript in
his office, immediately proceed to docket and index the same in a separate book kept
for that purpose, in the same manner as though rendered in the court of his own
county, and he shall be allowed to charge and receive the same fees as provided by
law for like service.
SEC. 4. [Satisfaction of jud ment,]—When the amount due on any judg
ment is paid off or satisﬁed in fu l, the plaintifff, or those legally acting for him.
must acknowledge satisfaction thereof in the margin of the record of the judg
ment, or by execution of an instrument in writing, referring to the judgment. and
have it duly acknowledged and ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the district court
11] every county where the judgment is a lien. If he fails to do so within sixty
days after having been requested in writing so to do, he shall forfeit to the plaintiﬁ
(defendant) the sum of ﬁfty dollars.

SEC. 2883. [When attach,]—-Wlien the lands lie in the county wherein the
Jurligment was rendered, the lien shall attach from the date of such rendition.
Sec. 2884. [In another conntv how eﬂ'ected.]—1f the lands lie in any other
county, the lien does not attach until an attested copy of the judgment is ﬁled in
the oﬂice of the clerk of the district court of the county in which the land lies.

SEC. 2885. [Duty of clerk.]-—Sucli clerk shall, on the ﬁlingof a transcript of
the judgment in his oliice, immediately proceed to docket and index the same in
the same manner as though rendered in the court of his own county.

SEC. 2886. [When made.]—Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner
appointed by the court:
1. Where, by judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey such property
to another;
2. Where such property has been sold under a judgment or order of the court,
and the purchase money paid.
Sec. 2887. [Reference to judgment in.]—The deed of the commissioner
shall refer to the judgment, orders, and proceedings authorizing the conveyance.

SEC. 2888. A conveyance made in pursuance to a judgment shall pass to the
grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land. ‘
SEO. 2889. [Title.]—A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or pro
ceeding.
SEC. 2890. [Approval by court. l—A conveyance by a commissioner shall not
pass any right until it has been examined and approved by the court, which
approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance and record with it.
SEC. 2891. [Form of conveyance.]—lt shall be necessary for the conveyance
to be signed by the commissioner only, without aﬂ‘ixing the names of the parties
whose title is conveyed; but the name of such parties shall be recited in the body
of the conveyance.
SEC. 2892. [Recorded.]——The conveyance shall be recorded in the oﬁce in
which, by law, it should have been recorded had it been made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it. _
SEC. 2893. [Judge may approve conveyances.]~ln all cases under thlS
code, whenever by law it is permitted or required that judicial or other sales
and conveyances of land may or shall be conﬁrmed and approved by a court. it
shall be lawful for the judge of the court, in vacation, to conﬁrm or approve the
same, and to cause the proper entry or entries thereof to be made required by law
and the rules of such court.

SECTION 2894. [Clerk may enter.]——A judgment by confession without action
may be entered by the clerk of the district or circuit court in the manner herein
after prescribed.
SEC. 2895. [Can only be fOI‘ money.]——Such confession can be only_f_01'
money due, or to become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities
on behalf of the defendant, and must be for a speciﬁed sum. _
SEC. 2896. [Veriﬁed statement ﬁled with clerk.]—A statement in Writing
must be made and signed by the defendant and veriﬁed by his oath to the follow
ing effect, and ﬁled with the clerk:
‘1. If for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely the facts out of
which the indebtedness arose, and that the sum confessed therefore is justly due, 01'
to become due, as the case may be.

2. If for the nrpose of securing the plaintifff against a contingent liability, it
must state concisely the facts constituting such liability, and must show that the
sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
Sec. 2897. [J udgment: execution.]—The clerk shall thereupon make an
entry of judgment in his court record for the amount thus confessed and costs,
and shall issue execution thereon as in other crises.

SEC. 2898. [Offer to confess before action: effect and procedurc.]—Before
an action for the recovery of money is brought against any person, he may go
before the clerk of the courts of the county of his residence, or of that in which
the person having the cause of action resides, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a speciﬁed sum on such cause of action as provided for in
the foregoing sections. Whereupon, if such person, having had the same notice
as if he were defendant in an action, that the offer would be made, of its amount
and of the time and place of making it, refuses to accept it, and should afterwards
commence an action upon such cause and not recover more than the amountso
offered to he confessed, he shall ay all the costs of action; and on the trial
thereof, the offer shall not be deemed) to be an admission of the cause of action or
amount to which the plaintifff was entitled. nor be given in evidence.
SEC. 2899- [Samcz after action broughtJ—After an action for the recovery
of money is brought, the defendant may oﬂer in court to confess judgment for part
of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon,
if the plaintifff, bein present, refuses to accept such confession of judgmentin full
of his demands against the defendant in the action, or, having had three days'
notice that the offer would be made, of its amount and‘ of the time of making It,
fails to attend and on the trial does not recover more than was offered to be con
fessed. such plaintifff shall pay the costs of the defendant incurred after the offer.
The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or amount
to which the plaintifff was entitled, nor be given in evidence upon trial.

SEC. 2900- [By allowing judgment to be taken for a certain sum]
—The defendant in an action for the recovery of money only, may, at any time
after service of notice and before the trial, serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney
an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum of
money, or to the effect therein speciﬁed with costs. If the plaintifff accept the offer,
and gives notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within ﬁve days after the
oll'eris made, the offer, and an aﬁidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered
in the time limited, may be ﬁled by the plaintifff, or the defendant may ﬁle the
acceptance with a copy of the offer veriﬁed by afﬁdavit; and in either case, the offer
and acceptance shall be entered upon record and judgment shall be rendered by the
court accordingly. If the notice of acceptance is not given in the period limited,
the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or men
tioned on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment for more than was
oﬁ'ered by the defendant, he cannot recover costs, but shall pay the defendant’s
costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 2901. [Same: conditional oﬂ‘erJ—In an action for the recovery of
money only, the defendant, having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff or his
attorney an Offer in writing, that if he fails in his defense the amount of recovery
shall be assessed as a speciﬁed sum. If the plaintiﬁ accepts the offer, and gives
notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within ﬁve days after it was served,
or within three days it served in term time, and the defendant fails in his defense,
the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintifff does not
80 accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to be recovered as if the offer had
not been made, and the offer shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the
trial. And if the amount recovered by the plaintifff does not exceed the sum men
tioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his costs incurred in the defense,
and 111 respect to the question of amount, to be taxed under the direction of the
court.
SEC. 2902. [N0 cause for continuance.]—-The making of any offer pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter, shall not be a cause for a continuance of an action
or apostpouement of a trial.

SEC. 2903- [When and how appointed.]——0n the petition of either party
to a ClVll action or proceeding, wherein he shows that he has a probable right to,
or interest in any property which is the subject of the controversy, and that such
property, or 1ts rents or proﬁts, are in danger of being lost or materially injured or
impaired, and on such notice to the adverse party as the court or judge shall pre
scribe, the court, or, in vacation, the judge thereof, if satisﬁed that the interests of
one or both'parties will be thereby promoted, and the substantial rights of neither
unduly infringed, may apgoint a receiver to take charge of and control such prop
erty under its direction uring the pendency of the action, and may order and
coerce the delivery of it to him. Upon the hearing of the application, afﬁdavits
and such other proof as the court or judge deems proper, may be introduced, and
upon the whole case such order made as will be for the best interest of all parties
concerned. 

SEC. 2904. [Oath and bond 0f.J-Bef0re entering on the discharge of his
duties, he must be sworn faithfully to discharge his trust to the best of his ability,
and must also ﬁle with the clerk a bond with sureties. to be by him approved, in a
penalty to be ﬁxed by the court or judge, and conditioned for the faithful dis
charge of his duties and that he will obey the orders of the court in respect thereto.
Sec. 2905. [Power 0f.]-—Subject to the control of the court or judge, a receiver
has power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possesswn of property, to
collect debts, to receive the rents and proﬁts of real property, and, generally, to do
such acts in respect to the property committed to him as may be authorized.

SEC. 2906. [Judgments on motion in certain _cases.]—Judgments or
ﬁnal orders may be obtained on motion by sureties against their principals, by
suretiesngainsttheir co-snreties, for the recovery of money due them on account of
payments made by them as such; by clients against attorneys; plaintifffs in execu
tion against sheriffs, constables, and other ofﬁcers, for the receiving of money or
gropei'tty collected for them, and damages, and in all other cases specially authorized
y s :1 ate.

Sec. 2907- [Notice: serviceJ—Notice of such motion shall he served on the
party against whom the judgment or order is sought at least ten' days before the
motion is made.
SEC. 2908. [Form 0f.]-——The notice shall state in plain and ordinary language
the nature and grounds of the motion, and the day on which it will be made.

SEC. 2909. [When abandoned.J—Unless the motion is made and ﬁled with
the case on or before the day named in the notice, it shall be considered as
abandoned.
SEC. 2910. [N0 written leadingsJ—Tha motion shall be heard and deter
mined without written ple ings, and judgment given according to law and the
rules of equity.

SEC. 2911. [MOtiOIl deﬁned.]—A motion is a written application for an
order addressed to the court, or to a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or
proceeding, or by any one interested therein.
SEC. 2912. [Several objects inclutled.]—Several objects may be included in
the same motion, it they all grow out of, or are connected with, the action or pro
ceeding in which it is made.
SEC. 2913. [Proof to sustain or resist: how taken.J—Testimony to sus
tain or resist a motion may be in the form of afﬁdavits, or in such other form as
the parties may agree on or the court or judge direct. If by aﬂidavit, the person
making the same may be required to appear by the court or judge, and submit to
a crass-examination.

SEC. 2914. [Notice of motion: how and when taken.]—A party who has
appeared in an action, or‘wlio has been served with the original notice in such
action in any manner Pl‘OVlded by this code, shall take notice of all motions ﬁled
durinur term time upon the same being ﬁled by the clerk and entered in the appear
ance ocket. All motions ﬁled in vacation shall be entered on such docket and
served as herein required.

Sec. 2915. _ [Notice: what to stateJ—Wheu notice of a motion is requlrtd
to be served, it shall state the names of the parties to the action or proceeding "1
hich it is , the name of the court or judge before whom it is to be made,
and the plati ‘ re, and the day on which it is to be heard, and, if afﬁdavits are
to be used on the hearing, the notice shall be accompanied with copies thereof and
shall bebsernd such length of time before the hearing as the court or judge deems
reasons e.

SEC. 2916- [Service: how model—Notices, and copies of motions men
tioned in this chapter, may be served by any one who would be authorized to serve
an original notice.
SEC. 29W. The service shall be on each of the parties adverse to the motion,
if more than one, or on an attorney of record of such party.
Sec. 2918. The service may be personal on such party 0r attorney, or
maybemade in the same manner as is provided for the service of the original
notice in civil actions; or it may be served on the attorney by being left at his
ofﬁce with any person having theyharge thereof.
SEC. 2919. [Return.]-Any oﬂicer authorized to serve any notice, shall serve at
once the same and make prompt return to the party who delivered the same to
hlilm, and a failure to do so shall be punished as a disobedience of the process of
t e court.
SEC. 320. The return of proof of service must state the manner in which it
was in e.
SEC. 2921. [When court may direct manner of service.]—When the
party has no known place of abode in this state, and no attorney in the county
where the action is pending, or where the parties, plaintifffs or defendants, are
numerous, the court or judge may direct the mode of serving notices,and on whom
they shall be served.

SEC. 2922. [Order doﬁnedJ—Every direction of a court or judge, made or
entered in writing and not included in a judgment, is anprder. 

SEC. 2923- [May issue in vacation.]—For good cause shown, a judge's order
may issue in vacation, directing any of the ofﬁcers of the court 1n relation to the
discharge of their duties. 

Sec. 2924. [How long in force.]-—Such order shall be in force only during
the vacation in which it is granted and for the ﬁrst two days of the ensuing term.

SEC. 1925 [Bond_]_The judge granting it may require the ﬁling of a bond as
In case of an injunction, unless from the nature of the case such requirement
would be clearly unnecessary and improper. 

Sec. 2926. [To be ﬁled and entered 0f record.]_—Orde_rs made out Of court
shall forthwith be ﬁled with and entered by the clerk 1n the Journal of the COUI‘t
1n the same manner as orders made in the term

SEC. 2927. [Must be given, when.']——If a defendantshall at any time before
answering, malie andfile an affidavit stating that he has a. good defense in whole or
in part, t e plaintifff, if he be a non-_reSident of this state or a private or foreign cor
oratioii, before any other proceeding in the cause shall ﬁle in the clerk’s ofﬁce a
0nd, With a suﬁicient security to_be upproved by the clerk, for the payment of all
costs which _may accrue in the. action in the court in which it is brought or in any
other to which it may be carried, either to the defendant or to the ofﬁcers of the
court. The application for such security shall be by motion ﬁled with the case,
and the facts supporting it must be shown by aﬂidavits annexed thereto, which
may be responded to by counter afﬁdai'its on or before the hearing of the motion,
and each party shall ﬁle all his afﬁdavits at once, and none thereafter.

SEC. 2928. [Cause dlSMISSGd.J—_An_ action in which a bond for costs 18
required by the last section, shall be dismissed if a bond is not given in such time
as the court may allow.

SEC. 2929. [_When _plaintiﬂ becomes n_on-res1dent.]——If the plaintifffiii an
action, after its institution becomes a non~res1dent of this state, he may be required
to give security for costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided in the
receding sections of this chapter.
SEC. 2930_. [Additional security.]-—In an action in which a bond for costs
has been given, the defendant may at any time before trial, make a motion for
additional security on the part of plaintifff; and if on such motion the court is
satisﬁed that the surety in the plaintifff’s bond has removed from the state, or 15
not sulﬁcient for the amount thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless._ I! a
reasonable time to be ﬁxed by the court, sufﬁcient security is given by the plaintiii
SEC. 2931. [Attorney or ofﬁcer cannot be.]——N0 attorney or other ofﬁcer
of the court shall be received 8-S_SQClll‘ll2y in any proceeding in court. 

SEC. 2932. [Judgment on bond rendered on m0ti0n.]—-After ﬁnal judg
ment has been rendered in an action in which security for costs has been given as
required by this chapter, the court on motion of the defendant or any other person
having the right to such costs or any part thereof, may render judgment surn
marily according to the chapter on summary proceedings, in the name of the
defendant or his legal representatives, against the siireties for costs, for the amount
of costs adjudged against the plaintifff or so much thereof as may remain unpaid.

SEC. 2933. [Recoverable by successful party.l—Costs shall be recovered
by the successful against the losing party. But where the party is successful as
to apart of his demand, and fails as to part, unless the case is otherwise provided
for, the court may, on rendering judgment, make an equitable apportionment of
costs.

Sec. 2934. [Where several parties and causes of action.]—Iri actions
where there are several plaintiﬁ's or several defendants, the costs shall be apportioned
according to the several judgments rendered; and where there are several causes of
action embraced 1n the same petition, or several issues; the plaintifff shall recover
costs upon the issues determined in his favor. and the defendant shall recover costs
upon the ISSUOS_ determined in his favor.

SEC. 2935- [Uncollected costs: party making to pay.]—All costs accrued
at the instance of the successful party which cannot be collected of the other
part , may be recovered on motion by the person entitled to them against the suc
cess ul party. 

SEC. 2936. The necessary fees paid by the successful party in Procurlng COPIES 0f {188(18. bonds. wills, or other records ﬁled as a part of
the testimony, shall be taxed in the bill of costs. _
SEC. 2937- [SameJ—Ppstage paid by the ofﬁcers of the court, or by the parties
in sending Procesgi _d93P°51t_i°nS' and other papers being part of the record, by
mail, shall be taxed in the bill of costs_
SEC. 2938- (3081;: allowed party who confess matter which arose
after action. —-Wheu a pleading contains a defense stating matter which arose
after the commencement of the action, whether such matter of defense be alone
or with other matter of defense which arose before the action, the party affected
by such matter may confess the same. and thereupon shall be entitled to the costs
of the cause as to thepMEy pleading such matter up to the time of such pleading.
Sec. 2939. [On dismissal of action or death of party.]—When a plaintifff
dismisses the action or any part thereof, or suﬁ'ers it to abate by death of the defenduct or other cause, or where the suit abates by death of the plaintifff and his rep
resentatives fail to revive the same according to law, judgment for costs may be
rendered against such plaintifff or representative, and, if against a representative,
shall be paid as other claims against the estate.
SEC. 2940. [Between co~parties.]—The co-parties against whom judgment
has been recovered, are entitled as between themselves to a. taxation of the costs of
witnesses whose testimony was obtained at the instance of one of the co-parties,
and inured exclusively to his beneﬁt.
Sec. 2941. [When dismissed for want of jurisdiction] —Where an action
isdismissed from any court for want of jurisdiction, or because it has not been
regularly transferred from an inferior to a superior court, the costs shall be adjudged
against the party attempting to institute or bring up the cause.
SEC. 2942. The clerk shall tax in favor of the party recovering costs, the
allowance of his witnesses, the fees of ofﬁcers, the compensation of referees, the
necessary expenses of taking depositions by commission or otherwise, and any
further sum for any other matter which the court may have awarded as costs in
the progress of the cause or may deem just to be taxed.

Sec. 2943. [When cause of action is assigned.]—In actions in which the
cause of action shall, by assignment after the commencement of the action, or in
any other manner, become the property of a person not a party to the action, such
party shall be liable for the costs in the same manner as if he were a party.
Sec. 2944. [Re-taxation.]—Any person aggrieved by the taxation of a bill of
costs, may, upon application, have the same re-taxed by the court, or by a referee
appointed by the court in which the application or proceeding was had, and in
such re-taxation all errors shall be corrected; and if the party aggrieved shall have
paid any unlawful charge by reason of the ﬁrst taxation, the clerk shall pay the
costs of re-taxation, and also to the arty aggrieved the amount which he may
have paid by reason of the allowing 0 such unlawful charges.

SEC. 2945. [0n appeals to supreme court.]—In cases of appeals from the
district or circuit court, the clerk shall make a complete bill of costs, showing the
Items which shall accompany the record, and a copy of the same shall be placed
upon the execution docket of the court below.
SEC. 2946 [Clerk of supreme court: duty 0f.]—When the costs accrued in
the supreme court and the court below are paid to the clerk of the supreme court,
he shall pay so much of them as accrued in the court below to the clerk ot_said
court. and take his receipt for the same.
SEC. 2817. [Duty of clerk below.]—Ou receiving such costs, the clerk of
the court below shall charge himself with the money upon his execution docket,
and pay it to the persons entitled to the same.
SEC. 2943- [Interest from verdict to be computed.1—-When the judgment
is for the recovery of money, interest from the time of the verdict or report until
judiment be ﬁnally entered shall be computed by the clerk and added to the costs
oft e party entitled thereto.

SEC. 2949. [Property attached] —_The plaintiﬂ' in a civil action may
cause any property of the defendant which is not exempt from execution to be
attached at the commencement or during the progress of the proceeding, by pur
suing the course hereinafter prescribed.

SEC. 2950. [Separate petitionJ—If it be subsequent to the commencement
of the action, a separate petition must be ﬁled, and in all cases the proceedings
relative to the attzichment are to be deemed independent of the ordinary proceed
ings and only auxiliary thereto.

SEC. 2951. [Petition must state.]—The petition which asks an attachment
must in all cases be sworn to. It must state:
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation, or acting as such; or,
2. That he is a non-resident 0f the state; or,
3. That he is about to remove his property out of the state without leaving suf
ﬁcient remaining for the payment of his debts; or, I
4. That he has disposed of his property, in whole or in part, with intent to
defraud his creditors; or,
5. That the defendant is about to dispose of his property with intent to defraud
his creditors; or,
ht. That he has absconded, so that the ordinary process cannot be served upon
1111' or,
7.,That he is about to remove permanently out of the county and has property
tgerein not exempt from execution, and that he refuses to pay or secure the plaint
l ; or,
8. That he is about to remove permanently out of the state, and refuses to pay
or secure the debt due the plaintifff; or,
_9. That he is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the county
With intent to_ defraud his creditors; or, _
10. That he is about to convert his propert , or a part thereof, into money for
the purp08e of placing it beyond the reach 0 his creditors; or,
11. That he has property or rights in action which he conceals; or,
12. That the debt is due for property obtained under false pretenses.

SEC. 2902. [issued and served on Sunday: when.J—Where the petition
states, in addition to the other facts required, that the plaintifff will lose his claim
unless tlae attachment issues and is served on Sunday, it may be issued and served
on that ay.
SEC. 2903. [On contract petition must state.]—I£ the plaintifff’s demand is
founded on contract, the petition must state that something is due, and, as near as
racticable, the amount, which must be more than ﬁve dollars in order to author
ize an attachment.

SEC. 2904. [Amount of prgperty attachedJ—The amount thus sworn to I5
intended as a gulde to the chem , who must, as nearly as the circumstances of the
case Will permit, levy upon property ﬁfty per cent greater in value than that
amount

Sec. 2955. [Not on contract: Judge to allow.]—1f the demand is not
founded on contract the original petition must be presented to some judge of the
supreme, district, or circuit court, who shall make an allowance thereon of the
amount in value of the property that may be attached. The provisions of this sec
tion apply only to cases in the district and Circuit court.

Sec. 2956. (As amended by ch. 29, 215$ g. a.) [What petition must state]
~The property of a debtor may be attached prekus to t 6 time when the debt
comes due, when nothing but time is wanting to ﬁx an absolute indebtedness,
and when the petition, in addition to that fact, states: _ '
_1. That the defendant is about to dispose of hIS property With intent to defraud
his creditors; or,
2- That he is about to remove [or has removed] from the state and refuses to
make any arrangements for securing the payment of the debt when it falls due,
and which [removal or] contemplated removal was not known to the plaintifff at
the time the debt was contracted; 0r. _ . . .
3. That the defendant has disposed of his property 1n whole or in part With in
tent to defraud his creditors; or, I
4. That the debt was incurred for property obtained under false pretenses.

SEC. 2907. [when to pleadin such case.]—lf the debt or demand on which
the attachment suit is brought 18 not due at the time of the service of the attach
ment, the defendant 18 not required to ﬁle any pleadings until the maturity of such
debt or demand; but he may, in his discretion, do so and go to trial as early as the
cause is reached.
SEC. 2958. [Judgment iu.]-And no ﬁnal judgment shall be rendered upon
such attachment unless the party consents as in the last section, until the debt or
demand upon which it is based becomes due. But property of perishable nature
may be sold as in other attachment cases.

SEC. 2959. [Must be ﬁrst given: amount.]—In all cases before it can be
’issued, the plaintifff must ﬁle with the clerk a bond for the use of the defendant.
with snreties to be approved by such clerk, in a penalty at least double the value
of the property sought to be attached, and in no case less than two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars in a cohrt of record. nor less than ﬁfty dollars if in a justice’s court,
conditioned that the plaintifff will ay all damages which the defendant may 8115'
tain by reason of the wrongful suing out of the attachment. 

Sec. 2960. [Additional security.]—The defendant may, at any time before
judgment, mow. the court or judge for additional securit on the part of the
plamtiﬁ‘. and if. on such motion, the court or judge is satisﬁe that the surety in the
plaintid’s bond has removed from this state, or is not sufﬁcient, the attachment
maybe vacated and restitution directed of any property taken under it, unless,
inureéisonable time, to be ﬁxed by the court or judge, security is given by the
ainti .
pThe def

Sec. 2961. [Action on or by way of counterclaim.]—In an action on such
bond, the pluintiﬁ' therein may recover it he shows that the attachment was wrong
fully sued out, and that there was no reasonable cause to believe the ground upon
which the same was issued to be true, the actual damages sustained and reasonable
attorney‘s fees, to be ﬁxed by the court; and if it be shown such attachment was
sued out maliciously, he may recover exemplary damages, nor need he wait until
the principal suit is determined before sueing on the bond.

SEC. 2962- [To whom directedJ—The clerk shall issue an attachment,
directing the aherlﬂ' of the county therein named to attach the property of the
defendant to the requisite amount therein stated.

SEC. 2963. [More than one attachment may issue and to several
OOIHItiGS at same time. —-A ttachments may be issued from courts of record to
different counties, and several may, at the option of the plaintiﬁ', be issued at the
same time, or in succession and subsequently, until sufﬁcient property has been
attached; but only those cite-outed shall be taxed in the costs, unless othervnse
ordered by the court, and if more property is attached in the gre ate than the
plaintifff is entitled to have held, the surplus must be abandougd an the plaintllf
pa all costs incurred 1n relation to such surplus. _
SEC. 296s. [Property attached: otﬁcer-‘s duty.]r—-The sheriﬂ’ shall In all
cases attach the amount of property directed if suﬂicieut, not exempt from execu
tion, found in his county. giving that in which the defendant has a legal an
unqueztlionable title a preference 0Ver that in which his title is doustul or only
e uita e.
SEC. 2965. Where there are several attachments against the same defendant,
they shall be executed in the order in which they were received by the sheriff.
SEC. 2966. [May follow to another county: when.]—If, after an attach
ment has been placed in the hands of the sheriff, any pro erty of the defendant 15
moved from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attacli the same in an adjoin
ing county within twenty-four hours after removal.

SEC. 2967. [What may be attached and how done.]—Stock or interest
owned by the defendant in any company, and also debts due him, or property of
hisffilelld by third persons, may be attached, and the mode of httachment must be
as o ows:
1. By giving the defendant in the action, if found within the county, and also
the person occupying or in possession of the property, if it be in the hands of a
third person, notice of attachment;
2. lf the property is capable of manual delivery, the sheriff must take it into
his custody if it can be found;
3. Stock in a company is attached by notifying the president or other head of
the company, or the secretary, cashier, or other managing agent thereof, of the
fact that the stock has been so attached;
4. Debts due the defendant, or property of his held by third persons and which
clarinetf befound, or the title to which is doubtful, are attached by garnishment
t ereo .

SEC. 2968. [Defendant examined on oath before Judged—Whenever it
appears by the afﬁdavit of the plaintifff, or by the return of the attachment, that
no property is known to the plaintifff or the ofﬁcer’on which the attachment can
be erecuted, or not enough to satisfy the plaintifff s claim, and, it being _shown to
lllBJlldge of any court by aﬁidavit, that the defendant has_ property Within the
state not exempt, the defendant may be' required by such Judge to attend before
lllm. or before the court in which the action is pending, and give information on
oath respectm his property. .
SEC. 2969. Property bOIlndJ—Pro rty attached othervvise than by garnish
ment. 18 bound thereby from the time o the serVice of the attachment only.

SEC. 2970- [Receiver appointed.]—The court before whom the action is
pending. or the judge thereof in vacation, may at any time, appoint a receiver to
take possession of property attached under the provisions of this character, and
to collect, manage and control the same, and pay over the proceeds according to the
nature of the property and the exigency of the case.

SEC. 2971. [Pay to clerk.]—All money attached by the sheriff, or coming into
his hands by virtue of the attachment, shall forthwith be paid over to the clerk to
be by him retained till the further action of the court.
SEC. 2972. [Other property.]-The sheriff shall make such disposition of
other attached property as may be directed by the court or judge, and where there
is no direction upon the subject he shall safely keep the property subject to the
order of the court.

SECTION 1. [Levy 0f attachmentJ—Be it enacted by the general assembly 0/
the state of Iowa: _An ofﬁcer is bound to levy an attchment on any personal prop
erty in the possession of, or that he has reason to believe belongs to, the defend
ant, or on which theplaintiﬁ' directs him to levy. But if after such levy he Sh
receive notice in writing under oath from some other person, his agent or attorneyi
that such property belongs to him, and statin the nature of his interest and the
fact showing how he acquired such interest an for what consideration, such ofﬁcer
may release the property unless a. bond is given as provided in the next section
But such ofﬁcer shall be protected from all liability by reason of such levy until he
receives such written notice.
SEC. 2. [Notice: indemnifying bond.]—When the oﬂicer receives such
notice, he may forthwith give the laintiif, his agent or attorney, notice that an
indemnifying bond is required. i30nd may thereupon be given by or for the
plaintifff, with one or more sureties, to be approved by the oﬂicer to the effect that
the obligors will protect and indemnify him aginst the damages which he may
sustain in consequence of the seizure and sale, and warrant to any purchaser of
the property such estate or interest therein as is sold, and thereupon the ofﬁcer
shall proceed to subject the property to the attachment, and shall return the bond
aforesaid to the district or circuit court of the county in which the levy is made.
Sac. 3. [Proceedings where bond is not given.]—If such bond is not
'ven. the oliicer holding the attachment may, within a reasonable how after
diam-and being made by said ofﬁcer, restore the roperty to the person from whose
possession it was taken, and the levy shall stand) discharged.
8130.4. The provisions of the foregoing sections shall apply to attachments
issued byjustices of the peace, and such bonds shall be returned to the justice
issuing said writ. ~
SEO. 5. All acts and parts of acts in conﬂict with this act are hereby repealed.
Approved March 22, 1884.

Sec. 2973. [Inventory and appraisement.]—In executing an attachment
against a person who ownes property jointly or in common with another, onwho
isamember of a partnership, the ofﬁcer may take possession of such property so
owned jointly, in common, or in partnership, suﬁiciently to enable him to inven
tory and appraise the same, and for that purpose shall call to his assistance three
disinterested persons; which inventory and appraisemeut shall be returned by the
officer with the attachment, and such return shall state who claims to own such
pro r .
'I'hp‘fcrtd'di

SEC. 2974. [Lien of plaintifff enforced by equitable proceedinisJ—The
glantiﬁ‘ shall, from the time such property 1s taken possession of by t e oliicer,
aye alien on the interest of the defendant therein, and may, either before or after
he obtains judgment in the action in which the attachment issued, commence an
action by equitable proceedin s to ascertain the nature and extent of such interest
and to enforce the lien; and,i deemed necessary or proper, the court or judge may
appoint a receiver under the circumstances and conditions provided in chapter
twelve, of title seventeen.

SEC. 2975. (As amended by ch. 58, 18th g. a.) [HOW aﬁ'ected.l——Tbe attach
ment by garnishment is effected by informing the supposed debtor or person hold
ing the property, that he is attached as garnisheee, and by leaving with hima
written notice to the effect that he is required not to pay any debt due by him to
the defendant or thereafter to become due, and that he must retain possession
of all pro rty of the said defendant then, or thereafter, being in his custody
or under iis control, in order that the same may be dealt with according to
law, and the sheriff shall summon such persons as garnishees as the plaintifff
may direct. [But no judgment shall be entered in any garnishment proceedings
condemning the property or debt in the hands of the garnishee until the prin
cipal defendant shall have had ten days notice of such proceedings. If the
case is pending in the district or circuit court the notice shall beserved in the
same manner as original notices are required to be served. If the case is pending
before a 'ustice of the peace, the defendant shall have at least ﬁve days personal
notice 0% such proceeding, if he be a resident of the county; otherwise service
of such notice may be made by posting the same in three public places in the
township, in the manner provided by sections 3609 and 3610 of the code. The
fact that the defendant is not a resident of the county may be shown by the
aﬂidavit of the plaintiﬁ', or his attorney, ﬁled with the justice before such notices
are posted] 

SEC. 2976. [Sheriﬂ' garnished for money In his hands.]—A sheriff or
constable may be arnished for money of the defendant in his hands. So may a
Judgment debtor 0 the defendant _when the judgment has not been previously
assigned on the record, or by writing ﬁled 1n the ofﬁce of the clerk and by him
mounted as an Peeignment on the margin of the Judgment docket, and also an ex—
ecutor for money due from the decedent to the defendant may be garnished, but
a municipal or political corporation shall not be garnished.

SEC. 2977. [Fund in court.]—-W here the property to be attached is a fund in
court, the execution of a writ of attachment shall be by leaving with the clerk of
the court a co y thereof, with notice, specifying the fund.

SEC. 2978. [Death Of garnishee.]—If the garnishee die after he has been
summoned by garnishment and pending the litigation, the proceeding may be
revived by or ainst his heirs or legal representatives.
SEC. 2979. a[,then garnishee to appear at courtJ—Unless exempted as
provided in the next section, the notice must also require the garnishee to appear
on the ﬁrst day of the next term of the court wherein the main cause is pending,
or on the day ﬁxed for trial if in a justice‘s court, and answer such interrogatories
as may he then propounded to him,or that he will be liable to pay the entire judg
ment which the plaintifff eventually obtains against the defendant.

SEC. 2980. [Sheriff may take answers of arnisheeijl—Whent e plaint
iii, in writing, directs the sherili' to take answer 0 the garnis ee, the sheriﬂ shall
put to the garnishee the followmg questions:
1. Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant in this suit or do you ow
him money or property which is not yet due? If so, state the particulars;
2. Have you in y0ur possessmn or under your control, any property, rights 0r
credits of the said defendant? If so, what is the value of the same, and state all
particulars; .
3. Do you know of_ any (16th 0_Wlllg' to the said defendant, whether due or not
due, or any property, rights or credits belonging to him and now in the posesswll
or under the control of others? If so, state the particulars, and append the exam
ination to his return.

SEC. 2981. [When garnishee refuses to answer.]—& the garnishee refuses
to answer fully and unequivocally all the fore oing interrogatories, he shall be
notiﬁed to appear and answer on the ﬁrst da 0 the next term of court, or on the
day ﬁxed for trial as above provided, and so e may be required in any event, if
the plaintifff so notify him.
SEC. 02982. [Examination in court.]——The uestions propounded to the gar
nishee in court, may be such as are above prescri ed to be asked by the sheriff, and
such others as the court may think proper and right.

SEC. 2983. [When garnishee entitled to fees.]—Where the garnishee is re
quired to appear at court, unless he has refused to answer as contemplated above,
heis entitled to the pay and mileage of a witness, and may in like manner, require
payment beforehand in order to be made liable for non-attendance.
SEC. 2984. [Presumption for failure to attend.]—If, when duly summoned,
and his fees tendered w In demanded, be fed to appear and answer the interroga
tories propounded to him without suiﬁcieiit excuse for his delinquency, he shall
be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full amount of the plaintifff‘s
demand, and shall be dealt with accordingly.

SEC. 2985. [May exonerate himself. —-But;, for a mere failure to appear, he
is not; liable to pay the amount of plaintifff is judgment, until he has had an oppor
tunity to show cause against the issuing of an execution.

SEC. 2986. [By paying over money or property in his handsJ—A gar:
nishee may. at any time after answer, exonerate himself from further responSi
bility, by paying over to the sheriff the amount owing by him to the defendant.
and placing at the sheriff's disposal the property of the defendant, or so much of
said debts and property as is equal to the Value of the property to be attached, all Of
which may afterward be trealaed as though attached in the usual manner. 

SEC. 2987. [Answer controverted.]—When the garnishee has answered the
interrogatories propounded to him, the plaintifff may controvert the same by pleading
by him ﬁled, and issue may be joined and the same tried in the usual manner.
The answer of the garnishee shall be competent testimony on such trial.

SEC. 2988. [May be entered, -lf, in any of the above methods, it is made to
appear that the gnrnishee was in ebted to the defendant, or had any of the defend
ants property in his hands either at the time of being seryed wrth the garnishee
notice aforesaid, or at any time subsequent thereto, he is liable to the plaintiﬂ' in
CNeJudgment is ﬁnally recovered by him, to the full amount of that judgment, or
to tlieamount of such indebtedness and of the property so held by him; and a
conditional judgment shall be entered up against him accordingly, unless he pre
im paying or delivering the same to the sheriﬁ' as above provided.

SEC. 2989. llWhendebt not due.]-—If the debt of the gsrnishee to the defend
made fort e pa. merit of his ien. Hawthorn v. Unthank, 52 Id., 507.
ant is not due. execution shall be suspended until its maturity.
SEC. 2990. [Negotiable pawn—The garnishee shall not he made liable on a
debt due by negotiable paper, unless such paper is delivered, or garnishee com
pletely exonerated or indemniﬁed from all liability thereon after he may have
satisﬁed the Judgment.

Sec. 2991. [Judgment conclusive. —The judgment in the garnishment suit
condemning the property or debt in the ends of the garnishee to the satisfaction
of the plaintifff’s demand, is conclusive between the garpishee and defendant.
Sec. 2992. [Docket of original case shall containJ—The dochenng of the
original case shrill contain a statement of all the garnishments therein, and when
Judgment is rendered against a garnishee, the same shall distinctly refer to the
original judgment.

SEC. 2993- [Appeal.]-—An appeal lies in all garnishment cases at'the instance
of the plaintiﬁ, the defendant, the garnishee, or an intervenor claiming the prop
erty or money. 

Sec. 2994. [By defendant executing bond.]—-l£ the defendant, at any time
tore Judgment, causes a bond to be executed to the plamtiﬂ‘ With suﬂicient secu
rities to be approved by the oﬁicer having the attachment, or after the return thereof
by the clerk, to the effect that he will perform the judgment of the court, the attach
ment shall be dischar ed and restitution made of property taken or proceeds thereof.
thhe execution of such bond shall be deemed an appearance of such defendant to
e action.

SEC. 9.990- LJ 11(1ngan on b0nd.]—Sucb bond shall be part of the record,
and, if Judgment go against the defendant, the same shall be entered against him
and sureties.

SEC. 2996. [By defendant or person iii possession giving boiid.]—The
defendant, or any person in whose possessmu any attached property is found, or any
person making aﬂidavit that he has an interest in it. may, at any time before judg
ment, discharge the property attached, or any part thereof, by giving bond Wlth
security, to be approved by the sheriff, in a penalty at least double the value of the
property sought to be released, biit_if that sum would exceed three times the claim.
then in such sum as equals three times the claim, conditioned that such property.
or its estimated value, shall he delivered to the sheriff to satisfy any judgment
which may be obtained against the defendant in that suit within twenty days aftPr
the rendition tliereof._ This bond shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the court. 

SEC. 2997. [Appraisement 0f propertyJ—To determine the value of prop
erty in cases where a bond is to be given, unless the parties agree otherWise, the
sheriff shall summon two disinterested persons havmg the qualiﬁcation of jurors,
_who,after having been sworn by him to makethe appraisement faithfully and
impartially, shall proceed to the discharge of their duty. If such persons disagree
as to the value of the pr0perty, the sheriff shall decnle between them.

SEC. 2998. [Defense to action on bond.]—In an action brought upon the
bond above contemplated, it shall be a sufﬁcient defense that the property for the
delivery of which the bond was given, did not, at‘ the time of the levy, belong to
the defendant against whom the attachment was issued, or was exempt from seiz
ure under such attachment.

SEC. 2999. [How and when done.]-——When the sheriff thinks the property
attached in danger of serious and immediate waste and decay, or when the keep
iiig of the same will necessarily be attended with such expense as greatly to depre
ciate the amount of proceeds to be realized therefrom, or when the plaintifff makes
afﬁdavit to that effect, the sheriff may summon three persons having the qualiﬁ
cation of jurors to examine the same. The sheriﬂ" shall give the defendant, if
Within the county, three days' notice of such hearing, and he may appear before
such jury and have a personal hearing. If they are of the opinion that the prop
city requires soon to be disposed of. they shall specify in writing a. day beyond
h'lllCll they do not deem it prudent that it should be kept in the hands of the sher
iﬂ. i If such day occurs before the trial day, he shall thereupon give the same
notice as for sale of goods in execution, and for the same length of time. unless
the condition of the property renders a more immediate sale necessary. The sale
shall be made accordingly. If the defendant gives his written consent, such sale
may be made without such ﬁnding.

SEC. 3000. [In actions to enforce liens, recovery, sale or partition of
real property.]——In an action to enforces mortgage of, or lien upon, personal
Emperty, or for the recovery, sale or partition of such property, or by a plaintifff
ﬁring ii future estate or interest therein, for the security of his rights, where it
satisfactorily appears by the petition, veriﬁed on oath or by afﬁdavits, or the proofs,
1R the causetthat the plaintifff has a just claim, and that the property has been or
Bailout to be sold, concealed or removal from the state, or .where plaintifff states
0n_oatli that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does believe, unless prevented
by the court, the property will be sold, concealed, or removed from the state, an
attachment may be granted against the roperty.

Sec. 3001. [By vendor of property fraudulently purchased.]—In an
action by a vendor of property fraudulently purchased, to vacate the contract and
have a restoration of the pro erty, or compensation therefore, where the petition
shows such fraudulent pure use of property and the amount of the plaintifff’s
claim,edand is veriﬁed by his oath, an attachment against the property may be
grant .
SEC. 3002. [Granted by court or judge: terms of. j—The attachment in
the cases mentioned in the last two sections may be granted by the court in which
the action is brought, or by the judge of any court, upon such terms and conditions
as to security on the part of the plaintiﬁ' for the damages which may be occasioned
by them, and with such directions as to the disposition to be made of the property
attached, as may be just and proper under the circumstances of each case.
SEC. 3003. [Describe property: to be indorsed by court or judged—The
attachment shall describe the speciﬁc property against which it is issued; and shall
have indorsed upon it the direction of the court or judge as to the disposition tobe
made of the attached property. It shall be directed, executed, and returned as
other attachments.
SEC. 3004. [Court to ﬁx terms of bonds given to discharge property]
—-The court may, in any of the cases mentioned under this head of speciﬁc attach
ments, direct the terms and conditions of the bond to be executed by the defend
ant, with security, in order to obtain a discharge-0f the attachment or to retain
the attached property.

SEC. 3005: [Duty of district attorney and attorney general.]—In all
cases in which any person is indebted to the state of Iowa, or to any oﬂicer or
agent of the state for the use or beneﬁt of the state, the proper district attorney,
or the attorney general, shall demand payment or security therefore, whenever, in the
opiniogii of said district attorney or attorney general, the debt is not suﬁciently
secure .
SEC. 3006. [Attachment may issue: conditions of, —In all suits for money
due to the state of Iowa or due to any state agent or o ‘cer for the use of the
state, it shall be lawful for an attachment to issue against the property or debts
of the defendant not exempt from execution, upon the ﬁling of an atﬁdavit by the
district attorney of the proper district, or of the attorney general, that he verily
believes that a speciﬁc amount therein stated is 'ustly due, and the defendant
therein has refused to pay or secure the same, and that unless an attachment 15
issued against the property of the defendant there is danger that the amount due
will be lost to the state.

SEC. 3007. [N0 bOIIdS can be required.]—The attachment so issued shall be
levied as in other cases of attachment, and no bond shall be required of the plaint'
iii" in such cases, and_the sheriff shall not be authorized to require any indemnlf')"
ing bond before levying the same.

Sec. 3008. [Property released: how.]——Any property taken on attachment
under the provisions of the two preceding sections. shall be subject to be released
upon the excution of a delivery bond1 with suﬂicient security as provided by law
in other cases.
SEC. 3009. [Damages paid by sheriﬁ' becomes a debt against the state]
—ln case any sherilY shall be held liable to pay any damages by reason of the
wrongful execution of any writ of attachment issued under the three preceding sections. and if a judgment be rendered therefore by any court of competent j urisdic
tion.the amount of jugdment when paid by such sheriff shall become a claim against
the state of Iowa in favor of such sheriff, and a warrant therefore shall be drawn
by the auditor upon proper proof.
Sec. 3010. [Sheriff’s return: contents of speciﬁed.]—The sheriﬁ' shall
return upon every attachment what he has done under it. The return must show
the pr0perty attached, the time it was attached. and the disposition made of it. by
a full and particular inventory; also the appraisement above contemplated, when
such has been made. When garnishees are summound, their names, and the time
each was summoned. must be stated. And where real property is attached, the '
sheriﬂ' shall describe it with certainty to identify it, and, where he can do so, by _a
reference to the book and page where the deed under which the defendant holds 15
rtcorded. He shall return with the writ all bonds taken under it. Such return
must be made immediately after he shall have attached sufﬁcient property, or all
that he can ﬁnd; or, at latest, on the ﬁrst day of the ﬁrst term on which the
defendant is notiﬁed to appear. 

SEC. 3011. [Judgment: how satisﬁed.]——lf judgment is rendered for the
plaintill'in any case-in which an attachment has been issued. the court shall apply
in satisfaction thereof, the money arising from the sales 'of perishable property,
and it the same i not sufﬁcient to satisfy the plaintifff s claim, the court shall order
itlullle by the sheriff of any other attached property which may be under his con
ro.
SEC. 3012. [gCourt may control property.]—The court may, from time to
m?» make an enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales. and the appli
cation of the monies collected. _
SEC. 308. [Expenses for keeping_]—-The sheriff shall be allowad by the
court the necessary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be paid by the
Plaintill‘ and taxed in the costs.

SEC. 3014. [Surplus.]—Any surplus of the attached property and its proceeds
shall be returned to the defendant. _ _
Sec. 3015. [Discharge of property); -—_If judgment is rendered in the acthn
for the defendant. the attachment shall discharged, and the property attached,
or its proceeds shall be returned to him.

Sec. 3016. [Interventionz how made and tried.]—Any person other than
the defendant may. before the sale of any attached property, or before the pay
ment to the plaintifff of the proceeds thereof or any attached debt, present his peti
tion, veriﬁed. by oath. to the court. disputing the validity of the attachment, or
stating a claim'to the property or money, or to an interest in, or lien on _it under
any other attachment or otherWise. and setting forth the facts upon which such
claim is founded; and the petitioner’s claim shall be in a summary mannerinvesti
gated. I The court may hear the proof or order a reference, or may impaneta yury
toinqiiire into the facts. If it is found that the petitioner has title to, a hen on,
or any interest in such property, the court shall make such order as may be neces
sary to protect his rights. The cost of such proceedings shall be paid by either
party at the discretion of the court.

SEC. 3017. [Defendant’s remedy only on b0ntl.]—The fact stated as a cause
of attachment, shall not be contested in the action by a mere defense. The'
defendant’s remedy shall be on the bond, but he may, in his discretion, sue thereon
by way of counterclaim, and in such case shall recover damages as in an original
action on such bond.

Sec. 3018. [Discharge of attachment on motion: causes for.]—_~A motion
may be made to discharge the attachment, or any part thereof, at any time before
trial for insulﬁciency -0 statement of cause thereof, or _for other cause making it
apparent of record that the attachment should not have issued, or should not have
been levied on all or on some part of the property held. 

Sec. 3019. [Plaintiff to have two days to appeal.]—Wben an attachment
has been discharged, if the plaintifff then announce his purpose to appeal from such
order of discharge, he shall have two days in which to perfect his appeal, and dur
ing that time such discharge shall not operate a return of the property nor divest
any lien. if such appeal he so perfected at the end thereof. _
Sec. 3020. [SameJ—Bnt, if judgment in the action be also given against the
plaintifff, he m'ust- also, within the same time, take his appeal thereon, or such dis—
charge shall be ﬁnal. 

Sec. 3021- This chapter shall be liberally construed, and the plaintiﬁ’,
' at any time. when objection is made thereto, shall be permitted to amend any defect
in the petition, atﬁdairit, bond, writ, or other proceeding; and no attachment shall
be quashed, dismissed, or the pro erty attached released, if the defect in any of the
proceedings has, or can amen ed so as to show that a legal cause for the attach
ment existed at the time it was issued; and the court shall give the plaintili' a rea
sonable time to perfect such defective proceedings; the causes for attachment shall
not be stated in the alternative.

SEC. 3022. [Encnmbranoc book: notice of attachment to be entered
in.]--No levy of attachment on real estate shall be notice to a subsequent vendeﬂ
or encumbrancer in good faith, unless the sheriff making such levy shall have
entered in a book which shall be kept in the clerk’s otﬁce of each county by the
clerk thereof, and called “ encumbrance book," a statement that the land, describ
ing it, has been attached, and stating the cause in which if; was so attached, an
when in was done and signed by such sheriff; and such book shall beopen as other
books kept by such clerk to public inspection. 

SEC. 3023. [Sheriﬁ'z constables,]—The word “ sheriff,” as used in this chapter,
is meant to app.y to constables when the proceedings are in a justice’s court, or
the like oﬁicer of any other court.
Sec. 30%. [Justice: clerk,]—When the proceedings are in a justice’s court,
gejlllsiilfie is to be regarded as the clerk of the court for all purposes herein con
mp ate . 

SEC. 1. [Personal property not exempt from execution may be taken
on attachment or cxecntion.]—Be it enacted by the qeneral assembly of the
state of Iowa: That personal property not exempt from execution hereafter mort
gaged, or heretofore mortgaged, when the debt secured thereby is due, may be
taken on attachment or execution issued at the suit of a creditor of a mortgagor,
but before the property is so taken the ofﬁcer or plaintifff must. pay or tender to the
holder of the mortgage the amount of the mortgage debt andunterest accrued. or
must depostitto the amount thereof with the clerk of the district court of the
county wherein the mortgaged property is found payable to the order of the holder
of the mortgage. When the debt; secured by a mortgage hereafter made is not due,
asshown by such chattel mortgage, he must also deposit With the clerk, interest
on the principal sum at the agreed rate speciﬁed In the mortgage, for the term of
sixty days from the date of dep0sit; provided, however, if the debt secured fall due
mless than sixty days from the date of deposrt, then interest shall be deposited
only for such shorter period; and when such sums are tendered to the holder of the
mortgage, or deposited with the clerk, the attachmg creditor shall be subrogated
to all the rights of the holder of the mortgage; and the proceeds from the sale of
the mortgaged property shall go, ﬁrst to the dlsohsrge of such indebtedness and
costs of execution; provided, however, that _if the Judgment debtor shall pay the
debt for which the attachment or execution Wes issued, the property shall be
released, and the creditor shall be entitled to receive money deposrted to pay the
mortgage debt, and shall have no right or interest in the mortgage, or in the mort
gaged pro rty.
Sec. 2. Holder of mortgage shall only receive amount due. The
holder of the mortgage shall state over his signature and under oath on the not of
said mortgage, the amount due, or to become thereon, and deliver the same to the
person paying him said amount, and if the said sum has been deposited with the clerk
of the district court, the holder of the mortgage shall only receive the amount so
stated to be due, and shall surrender to the clerk the mortgage and other evidence
of indebtedness, and the surplus, if any, shall be returned to the person who made
the deposit; provided, however, that the execution or attaching creditor shall have
the right to controvert, in the court from which the process issued, such statement
of indebtedness in the manner provided in other arnishment proceedings, if he
ive notice in writing to the clerk at the time of t e deposit; and the clerk shall
hold the deposit until such matter is determined. If the attaching or 'udguient
.creditor fail to sustain his claim against the mortgage, he shall pay to t e holder
of the mortgage interest upon the debt at the rate of ten per cent per anuum.
together with the costs of the proceeding, and an attorney’s fee of ten per cent on
the amount of the debt.
SEC. 3. [Bid must cover amount of debt and costs.]—At the sale of said
property no bid shall be received for a less sum than the amount then due on and
mortgage, together with the costs made by virtue of such levy of attachments or
executions, and the casts of said sale. And unless there shall be a bid of more
than such amount, the execution or attachment creditor shall pay the costs made
by such levy and sale. If said property shall sell for more than the amount due
on said mortgage and the costs aforesaid, the oﬂicer shall immediately pay the sum
due on said mortgage to the person who paid the same, and shall apply this surplus
on the execution. or attachment held by him.
SEC. 4. [Validity of mortgage may be contested. I—But nothing con
tained in this act shall in any way alfect the right of any creditor to contest for
any reason the validity of such mortgage.
SEC. 5. [Mortgagee compelled to state amount of debt upon request]
__.Upon written demand of a creditor, his agent, or attorney, or of any mortgagor
of personal property other than exempt property, the person entitled to receive
said debt shall deliver to said creditor a statement in writing under oath, which
statement shall show the nature and amount of the original debt secured by the
mortgage, the date and amount of each payment, if any, which has been made
thereon, and an itemized statement of the amount then due and unpaid. .
SEC. 6. [Failure t0_ comply.]--The refusal of the person entitled to receive
said mortgage debt, or his failure within a reasonable time after demand to deliver
to the attachment or execution creditor, or to his attorney or agent, or either of
them, the statements required by the second and ﬁfth sections of this act, is
hereby declared to be a_misdemean0r, and willfully swearing to a greater anioth
of mortgage debt than is actually due, shall be deemed perjury. The person who
fails or refuses to furnish the veriﬁed statements, or either of them, required by
the second and ﬁfth sections of this act, shall also be liable to the attachment of
execution creditor for all damages which shall result from such refusal or failure
and for reasonable attorney’s fees and costs in any action brought to recover such
damages, or to ascertain the amount of the mortgage debt.

Sec. 3025. [Limitation on issuance oiZ]—_Ex_ecu_tions may issue at any time
before the judgment is barred by the statute of limitations, and but one execution
shall be in existence at the same time.

SEC. 3026. [J udgments: orders enforced _by.] —J udgments or ordeis re
quiring the payment of money, or the delivery of the possessmn of property, are
to be enforced by execution. Obedience to those requiring the performance of
any other act, is to be coerced by attachment for contempt.

Sec. 3027. [From courts of record.]——Executions from any court of record
may issue into any county which the party ordering them may direct.

Sec. 3028. [When issued and served on Sunday.l—~An execution may
beissued and executed on Sunday, whenever an afﬁdavit shall be ﬁled by the
plaintltf or some person in his behalf, stating that he believes he will lose his
Judgment unless process issue on that day.
SEC. 3029. [Issued on demand of party: duty of clerk.]>-~Upon the
rendition of judgment, execution may he at once issued, and shall be by the clerk
on the demand of the party entitled thereto; and upon its issuance, the clerk shall
enter on the judgment docket the date of its issuance, and to what county and
whatotﬁcer issued, and shall also enter on said docket the return of the ofﬁcer
with the date of the return, the dates and amount of all monies received into or
cult of the ofﬁce thereon; and these entries shall be made at the time of the
mg one.
SEC. 3030. [Penalty for clerk’s failure of duty.]—The clerk willfully
neglecting or refusing to perform any one of the duties in this chapter imposed,
shall be liable to a penalty of ﬁve hundred dollars, and to damages to the party
aggrieved, and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor in oihce, and on conviction thereof,
shallbe removed from oﬂice.
Sec. 3031. [When issued to another county what done.]——In case exe
cution is issued to a county other than that in which the judgment is rendered, a
transcript of such judgment must be ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the district
court of such county, who shall make an entry thereof in the judgment docket of i'
such court; and the ofﬁcer having such execution shall return a copy thereof, ;‘
with his_return and domgs indorsed thereon, to such clerk, who shall make entries I _
thereof inDthesame manner and extent as if such judgment had been entered in
and execution issued from such court.

SEC. 3032. [Return, how made: money, how sent.]-When sent into
any county other than that in which the judgment was rendered, return may be
made by mail. But money cannot thus be sent except by the direction of the
arty entitled thereto, or his attorney. _ _
SEC. 3033._ [General form 0f execution.]——The execution must intelligibly
refer to the Judgment, stating the time and place at which it was rendered. the
names of the parties to the action as. well as to the judgment, its amount, and the
amount still to be collected thereon, if for money; and, if not for money, it must
state what speciﬁc act is required to be performed. If it be against the property
of the judgment debtor, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment and
interest out_oi" property of the debtor subject to execution, 

Sec. 3034. [When against representatives.]—If it be against real or per
sonal property in the hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legateesq
tenants of_rcal property or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judg'
ment and interest out of such property.
SEC. 3035. _LWhen for delivery of possession of real property-] If. 1*
be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall reqmre
the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
party entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any
costs, damages or rents and proﬁts, with interest, recovered by the same judgmfmt
out of the property of the party against whom it was rendered subject to execution,
and the value of the property for which judgment was recovered to be speciﬁed
therein ii a delivery thereof cannot be had, and shall in that respect be deemed an
execution against property. . _
SEC. 3036. [When for performance of any other act] When it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the Judgment may be served
on the person against whom it is given, or upon _the person or ofﬁcer who is
required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced.
An attachment for contempt is the pro er mode of enforcing obedience to a continuing order in
the form of a mandatory injunction. _T 0 State 0. Baldwin, 57 Iowa, 266.
SEC. 3037. [Oﬂicer t0 receipt f01'_.] Every ofﬁcer to whose hands an execu
tion may legally come shall give a receipt therefore, if required, stating the hour
when the same was received, and shall make sufﬁcient return thereof, together with
the money collected, on or before the seventieth day from such delivery.
Although this section directs that an execution shall be returned on or before the seventieth day
sﬂerits delivery to the oliicer, yet, where a levy has been made before the expiration of that time,
asale after the expiration of the seventy days is valid. 
SEC. 3038- [Oﬂicer to indorse when received and what he does under
it]—The officer to whom an execution is legally issued, shall indorse thereon the
day and hour when he received it, and the levy, sale, or other act done by _vn‘tue
thereof, With the date, and the dates and amounts of any receipts or payments in sat
isfaction thereof; the indorsements must be made at the time o the receipt or
not done.

SEC. 3039. [Bropertv of principal ﬁrst li_able.]—When a udgment is
aBanist a principal and his surety, the ofﬁcer having the collection t ereof shall
Glhaust the property of the principal before proceeding to sell that of the surety.

SEC. 3040. [Meaning of the term sureth—The term “surety ” 1n the fore.
30mg section, shall embrace accommodation indorsers, stayers and all other per.
sons whose liability on the claim is posterior to that of another; but the surety
shall, if requested by the ofﬁcer, show property of the principal to entitle himself
to the beneﬁt of this provision.
Sec. 3041. [Propert 0f surety liable: when] ——After exhausting the
property of the principal, _the_othcer shall subject the property of the other parties
in the order of their liability in the execution. But the party subsequently liable,
shall, if requested by the ofﬁcer, show property of the party liable before him so
as to entitle himself to the beneﬁt of this provision.
Sec. 3042. [Judgment recite order of liabilityJ—Butall the parties will
he cons1dered as equally liable in all cases, unless the order of liability is shown to
the court and recited in the judgment, and the clerk issuing execution on the judg
ment containing such recital shall state the order of liability in the execution.

SEC. 3043. [Mode of: duty of oiﬁcer.]—-When an execution is delivered to
an ofﬁcer, he must proceed to execute the same with diligence; if executed, an
exact description of the property at length, with the date of the levy, shall be
indorsed upon _or appended to the execution, and if the writ was not executed, or
onl executed in part, the reason in such case must be stated in the return.

Sec. 3044. [Same.]—The ofﬁcer must execute the writ by levying on the
property of the Judgment debtor, collecting the things in action by suit in his own
name, if necessary, or by selling the same, selling the other property and paying
to the plaintifff the proceeds, or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.

SEC. 3045. [What property he shall take.]—-The ofﬁcer shall in all cases
select such property, and in such quantities as will be likely to bring the exact
amount required to be raised, as nearly as practicable, and having made one levy,
may,at any time thereafter, make other levies if he deem it necessary. But no
writ of execution shall be a lien on personal property before the actual levy
thereof.

SEC. 3046. Judgments, bank bills, and other things in action, may be levied
upon and sold, or appropriated as hereinafter provrded, and asmgnment thereof by
the ofﬁcer shall have the same effect as if made by the defendant.

SEC. 3047. [Persons indebted to detendaiit may pay.]—Atter the ren dition
of Judgment, any person indebted to the defendant in eXecution may pay to the
sheriff the amount of such indebtedness,_or so much thereof as is necessary to sat
isfy the execution, and the sheriﬁ' ’s receipt shall be a suﬂicient discharge therefore.

SEC. 3048. [Public property _Il0_t liable.]—-Publi_0 buildings owned by the
state, or any county, city, school district, or other municipal corporation, or any
other public property which is necessary and proper for carrying out the general
Ilrpose for which such corporation is organized, are exempt from execution.
heh property of a private citizen can in no case be levred on to pay the debt of any
Sllc . 

SEC. 3049. [Tax levred to pay corporate debts.]—-I£ no property of a
municipal corporation against which execution has issued can be found, or if the
judgment creditor elect not to issue execution against such corporation. a tax must
be levied as early as practicable to pay off the judgment. When a tax has been so
levied and any part thereof shall be collected, the treasurer of such corporation
shall pay the same to the judgment creditor. or to the clerk of the court 1n which
the judgment was rendered, in satisfaction thereof.

SEC. 3050. [Stocks or interests levied upon.]—St_ock or interests owned by
the defendant 111 any corporation, and also debts due him, and property of his in
the hands of the third persons, may be levred upon in the same manner provrded
for attaching the same.
SEC. 3051. [How done: proceedingsJ—h proceedings by garnishment on
execution, the garnishee shall be served as in case of attachment. The plaintifff
may, also, if the garnishee is called into court, have a case docketed against him
without docket fee, and upon his answer to the ofﬁcer, issue may be made and
notice thereof given him or issue may be made on his answer in court without any
notice thereon if made at the same term; and in all these and every other particular,
the proceedings shall be the same as under garnishment on attachment, as near
as the nature of the case will allow.

SEC. 3052. [Not affected by expiration of execution.]—Proceedings by
garnishment on execution shall not be in any manner affected by the expiration
of the execution or its return; and where parties thereunder have been garnished,
the oﬂicer shall return to the next term thereafter a copy of the execution with
all his doings thereon, so far as garnishnients thereon are concerned.

SEC. 3053. [Oiﬁcer may take possession, inventory and appraised—
When an ofﬁcer has an execution against 8 Person Who Owns Property 10in“? ‘ in
common, or in partnership with another, such oﬂicer may levy on and take p0sses~
non of the property owned jointly, in common. 01‘ ill Partnership, SUECiently to
enable him to appraise and inventory the same, and for that purpose shall call to
his assistance three disinterested persons, WhiCh inventory and appraisement shun
bereturned by the oiiicer with the execution, and shall state in his return who
clams to own the property. 

SEC. 305% l Lien enforced by equitable proceeding.]—The pluintiii' shall,
from the time such property is so levied on, have a lien on the Interest, of the
defendant therein, and may commence an action by equitable proceedings to ascer
tam the nature and intent of such interest and to enforce the lien; and, if deemed
necessary or proper, the court or judge may appoint a receiver under the circum
stances provided in chapter twelve of title seventeen of this code.

SEC. 3055. [May be required when-1—An officer is bound to levy an execu
tion on any personal property in the possession of, or that he has reason to believe
belongs to, the defendant, unless he has received notice in writing from some other
erson, his agent, or his attorney, that such property belongs to him; or, if after levy
he receives such notice, such ofﬁcer may release the property unless a bond is given as
provided in the next section; but the ofﬁcer shall be protected from all liability by
reason of such levy until he receives such written notice.

SEC. 3056. [Terms and 00nd1t1_0n_5 Mil—When the ofﬁcer receives such
notice he may forthwrth give the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, notice that an
indemnifylng bond is required. Bond may thereupon be given by or for the
plaintifff, With one of more sufﬁcient sureties, to be approved by the oﬁicer, to the
etiectithat the ohligors will indemnify him against the damages which he may sus
tain lll consequence of the seizure or sale of _the property, and wrllpay to any
claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale,
and will warrant to any purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein
as 15 sold; and thereupon the oﬁicer shall proceed to subject the property to the
execution, and shall return the indemnifying bond to the district court of the county
in which the levv is made. . _
Sec. 3057. [if not given levy dlSOhtlI'gﬂlJ—If such bond is not giyen,
the oﬁcer may refuse to levy, or if he has done so, and the bond 18 not given in a
reasonable time after it is required by the ofﬁcer, he may restore the property to
the person from whose possession it was taken, and the levy shall stand discharged.
SEC. 3058. [Oiﬁccr protected 1f bond good when taken.J—-_The claimant
0r purchaser of any property, for the seizure or sale 0t which an indemnifying
bond has been taken and returned by the ofﬁcer shall be barred of any action against
the ofﬁcer levying on the property if the surety on the bond was good when it
was taken. Any such claimant or purchaser may maintain an action upon the
bond, and recover such damages as he may be entitled to.

Sec. 3059. [Application of proceeds of such propertyJ—Where prop
erly. for the sale of which the oﬁicer is indemiﬁed, sells for more than enough to
satisfy the execution under which it was taken, the surplus shall he paid into the
court to which the indemnifying bond is directed to be returned. The court may
order such disposition or payment of the money to be made, temporarily or abso
luiell’. as may be proper in respect to the rights of the parties interested.
SEC. 3060. [Executions issued by justices. —The provisions of the preced
}ng_sections as to bonds, shall apply to the procee ings upon executions issued by
Justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds shall be returned in- such cases with
the execution under which they are taken.

SEC. 3061. [How effected: f0!“ What time.J——On all judgments for the
recovery of money except those rendered in any court on an appeal or writ of
error thereto, or against any oﬁcer, person or corporation. or the sureties of any of
them, for money received in a ﬁduciary capacity, or for the breach of any omcial
duty, there may be a stay of execution if the defendant therein shall, within ten
days from the entry of judgment, procure one or more sufﬁcient freehold sureties
to enter into a bond acknowledging themselves security for the defendant for the
payment of the judgment, interest and costs from the time of rendering judgment
until aid, as follows:
1. f the sum for which 'udgment was rendered, inclusive of costs, does not
exceed one hundred dollars, t ree months;
2. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, six months; provided. that
the provisions of this chapter in relation to stay of execution shall not apply to
existing contracts, but such contracts shall be governs-:3: by the laws in force at
the time they were made, which are as follows:
When judgment has been rendered against any one for recovery of money, he
may, by procuring one or more sufﬁcient freehold securities to enter into a recog
nizance acknowledging themselves security for the defendant for the payment of
the judgment, together with the interest and costs accrued and to accrue, have a
etc. of the execution from the time of rendering judgment. as follows:
lythe sum for which judgment was rendered, inclusive of costs, does not exceed
ﬁve dollars, one month;
If such sum and costs exceed ﬁve, but not twenty dollars, two months;
If such sum and costs exceed twenty, but not forty dollars, three months;
If such sum and costs exceed forty, but not sixty dollars, four months;
If such sum and costs exceed sixty, but not one hundred dollars, six months;
If such sum and costs exceed one hundred, but not one hundred and ﬁfty dol
lars. nine months;
If such sum and costs exceed one hundred and ﬁfty dollars, twelve months;
And provided, further, that all judgments shall bear interest at the rate of ten
per cent per annum on which stay is taken.

SEC. 3062. Ofﬁcers approvmg stay bonds shall require the aﬁdavit of the
signers of such bond that they own real estate, not exempt from execution an
aside from encumbrance, to the value of twice the amount of the judgment. 

SEC. 3063. [No appeal where stay is taken.]——No appeal shall be allowed
after such stay has been obtained, nor shall a stay be taken on a Judgment entered
as herein contemplated against one who is surety in the stay of execution, nor_shall
such stay be allowed to any judgment obtained by a laboring man or mechanic for
his wages. 
SEC. 3064‘ [Clerk t0 take and record b0nd.]—The surety for stay of execu
tion may be taken and approved by the clerk, and the bond shall be recordered in
a book kept for that purpose and have the force and eﬂect of _a judgment con
iessed from the date thereof against the property of the sureties, and the clerk
shall enter and index the same in the proper judgment docket, as in case of other
judgments.

SEC. 3965. [Execution recalled_]—When the surety is entered after execution
issued, the clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay, and he shall forth
WIth return the execution with his doings thereon.
SEC. 3066. [Property levied on released.j—-All property levied on before
stay of execution, and all written undertakings for the delivery of personal prop
tray Ytet:1 the sheriﬁ', shall be relinquished by the ofﬁcer upon stay of execution being
(ill e .
SEC. 3067. [Execution against: form 0f.]—At the expiration of the stay, the
clerk shall issue ajoint execution against the property of all the judgment debtors
“lid “Wiles describing them as debtors or sureties therein.

SEC. 3068. [Surety may prevent stay.]—When any court shall render
JUdgment against two or more persons, any of whom is surety for any other in
the contract on which judgment is founded, there shall be no stay of execution
allowed it the surety object thereto at the time of rendering the judgment, where
upon it shall be ordered by the court that there be no stay, unless the surety for
the stay of execution will undertake speciﬁcally to pay the judgment in case the
amount thereof cannot be levied of the principal defendant.

SEC. 3069. [Surety may determine stay.]—Any surety for the stay of
erecutrou may ﬁle with the clerk an afﬁdavit, stating that he verily believes he
"11! be liable for the judgment, interest, and costs thereon unless execution issues
immediately; and the clerk shall thereupon issue execution forthwith, unless other
sufﬁcient suret he entered before the clerk as in other cases.
SEC. 3070. EOther surety given.]-—l£ other sufﬁcient surety be entered, it
shall have the 'orce of the original surety entered before the ﬁling of the afﬁdavit,
and shall discharge the original surety.
Sec. 3071. [Judgment lien not released.]—Where a stay of execution has
been taken, such confessed judgment shall not release any judgment lien by virtue
of the original judgment for the amount then due. The ofﬁcer holding the said
execution shall return thereon what amount was made from the principal debtor,
and how mach from the surety.

SEC. 3072. (As amended 61/ ch. 42. 15 g. (1., ch. 62, 19 g. a., and ch. 49, 19 g. a.)
gPr-operty enumeratedJ—H the debtor is a resident of this state and is the
ead of a family, he may hold exempt from execution the following property:
All wearing apparel of himself and family kept for actual use and suitable to their
condition, and the trunks or other receptacles necessary to contain the same; one
musket or riﬂe and shot gun; all private libraries. family bibles, portraits, pic
tures, musical instruments, and paintings, not kept for the purpose of sale; a seat
or pew occupied by the debtor or his family in any house of public worship; an
interest in a public or private burying ground, not exceeding one acre for any
defendant; two cows and calf; one horse, unless a horse is exempt as hereinafter
provided; ﬁfty sheep and the wool therefrom, [and the materials manufactured
from such wool] six stands of bees; ﬁve hogs, and all pigs under six months; the
necessary food for all animals exempt from execution, for six months; all ﬂax
raised by the defendant on not exceeding one acre of ground and the manufac
tures therefrom; one bedstead and the necessary bedding for every two in the
family; all cloth manufactured by the defendant, not exceeding one hundred yards
in quantity; household and kitchen furniture, not exceedin two hundred dollars
in value; all spinning wheels and looms, one sewing mac inc and other instru
ments of domestic labor kept for actual use; the necessary provisions and fuel for
the use of the family for six months; the proper tools, instruments, or books of
the debtor, if a farmer, mechanic, surveyor, clergyman, lawyer, physician, teacher,
or professor; the horse or the team,consisting of not more than two horses or
mules, or two yoke of cattle, and the wagon or other vehicle, with a proper har
ness or tackle, by the use of which the debtor, if a physician, public ofﬁcer, far
mer, teainster, or other laborer habitually earns his living. [If the debtorisﬂ
seamstress one sewing machine shall be exempt from execution and attachment]
And to the debtor, if a printer, there shall also be exempt a printing press and the
types, furniture, and material necessary for the use of such printing press and 11
newspaper ofﬁce connected therewith, not to exceed in all the value of twelve hun
dred dollars. [Anyperson entitled to any of the exemptions mentioned in this section does not warm his rights thereto by failing to designate or select suc
exempt property, 01‘ by falling to object to a levy thereon, unless failing or refus
ing so to do when required to make such designation or selection by the odicers
about to levy.] 

SEC. 3073. The word “family,” as used in the last section, does not include
strangers or boarders lodging With the family.
SEC. 3074. The earnings of such debtor for his personal services, or those of
his family, at any time Within ninety days next preceding the levy, are also exempt
from execution and attachment.

SEC. 3075. LUnmarried perS0n8.]—-There shall be exempt to an unmarrled
person, not the head of a family, and to non-residents, their own ordinary wearing
apparel and trunks necessary to contain the same.
SEC. 3076. [, Persons who have started to leave the state. l—Whe"
the debtor, 1f the head of a family, has started to leave the state, he shall have
exempt only theordinary wearing apparel of himself and family, and such other
property, in fiddlblon. as he may select, in all not exceeding seventy-ﬁve dollars
in value; which property shall be selected by the debtor and appraised according
to the pi'ov1si0ns of section two thousand nine hundred and minty-seven of chapter
one of this title, but any person _coming into this state with the intention 0t re
maining, shall be consrdered a resident within the meaning of this chapter.

SEC. 3017. [Purchase m0ney.]-—None of the exemptions prescribed in this chapter shall be allowed against an execution issued for _the_purc_hase money of
property claimed to be cxem pt, and on which such execution is lened.
SEC. 3078. [Absconding d6bt01‘._]_—When a .debtor abseonds and leaves his
family. such property shall be exempt in the hands of the mic and children, or
either of them. 

SEC. 1. [Moneys and credits.]—Be it enacted by the gene-ml assembly
qfthe state of Iowa: All money received by any perSOH. reSidellt 0f the state. as
apension from the United States government, whether the same shall be in the ,
actual possession of such pensioner, or deposited, loanedi 01' "nested by him‘ Shall ‘ “
exempt from execution or attachment, or seizure by or under any legal process I
whatever, whether such pensioner shall be the head of a family or not.
SEC. 2. [Homestead,]——The homstead of every such pensioner, whether the
head of a'fnmily or not, purchased and paid for with any such pension money, or
the proceeds or accumulations of such pension money, shall also be exempt as is
now provided by the law of this state in relation to homesteads; and such ex
emption shall also apply to debts of such pensroner contracted prior to the pur
chase of such homestead.
Sec. 3. [Absconding debtor.]—When a debtor absconds and leaves his fam
ﬂy, the property exempted by this,act, shall also be exempt to his wife and chil
dren, or either of them.

SEC. 3079. HNotice 0f.]—The slieriﬁ‘ must give four weeks’ notice of the time
and place of se ling real pro erty, and three weeks’ notice of personal property.
SEC. 3080. [HOW given. —-Notice shall be given by being posted up in at least
threehpublic places of the county, one of which shall be at the place where the
last district court was held. In addition to which, in case of the sale of real estate,
or where personal property to_the_ amount of two hundred dollars or upwards is tosold, there shall be two publications of such notice in some newspaper printed in
the county, if there be one. In constables” sales there shall be no newspaper pub
lication,_ and the notice shall be posted in three %ublic places of the township of
the justice, and one of them at his ofﬁce door. he time of such notice shall be
two weeks. _ _
Sec. 308}. [Penalty for selling Without notice.]—An ofﬁcer selling With
out the noticeaboveprescribed shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the defendant
in execution, in addition the actual damages sustained by either party; but the
validity of the sale is not thereby aﬁ'ected.

SEC. 3082. [Time of soled—The sale must be at public auction, between nine
o‘clock in the forenoon and tour o'clock in the afternoon, and the hour of the
commencement of the sale must be ﬁxed in the notice. '

SEC. 3083. [Ofﬁcer may postpone when.J——Wlien there are no bidders QY
when the amount oﬂ'ered is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the sale is
prevented from taking place on the day ﬁxed, the sheriff may postpone the sale for
not more than three days, Without being required to give any further notice thereof;
but he shall not make more than two such postponements, and such postponement
shall be (publicly announced when the sale should have taken place.
Sec. 3084. [Disposition of excess.]—When the property sells for more than
the amount required to he collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant,
unless the odieer have another execution in his hands on which said overplus may
be rightfully applied.

Sec. 3084. [Disposition of excess.]—When the property sells for more than
the amount required to he collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant,
unless the odieer have another execution in his hands on which said overplus may
be rightfully applied.

SEC. 3085. [Another execution.]—If the property levied on sell for less than
sufﬁcient for that purpose, the plaintifff may order out another execution, which
shall be credited with the amount of the previous sale. The proceedings under
this second sale shall conform to those hereiubeforeﬂprcscribed.
Sec. 3086. [Levy holds good unless plainti abandons.]—When prop
erty is unsold for want of bidders, the levy still holds good; and, if there be suﬂi
cient time, it may again be advertised or the execution returned and one issued
commanding the oﬁicer to sell the property, describing it, previously levied on, to
which a clause may be added, that if such property does not produce a sum sufﬁ
cient to satisfy such execution, the ofﬁcer shall proceed to make an additional levy,
on which he shall preceed as on other executions, or the plaintifff may, in writing
ﬁled with the clerk or justice, abandon such levy upon paying the costs thereof.
in thillcll case the execution may issue with the same effect as if none had ever been
issue .
Sec. 3087. [Notice to defendant: sale void without.]—lf the defendant is
In actual occupation and possession of the land levied on, the oﬂ'icer having the
execution, shall, at least twenty days previous to such sale, serve the defendant
Flth written notice, stating that the execution is levied on said land, and mention
lng the time and place of sale; and sales made without the notice required in this
sittzhon, may be set aside on motion made at the same or at the next term there
a er

Sec. 3088. [Defendant may dwide land and give oﬂicer plan. l—At
any time before nine o clock A. m. of the day of the sale, the defendant' may de
liver to the ofﬁcer a plan of lelSIOD of the land levied on, subscribed by him, and
in that case the ofﬁcer shall sell according to said plan so much of theland as may
be necessary to satisfy the debt and costs and no more. If no such plan is fur
nished. the oﬂicer may sell Without any division.

SEC. 3089. [When purchaser fails to pay.]—When the purchaser fails to
pay the money when demanded, the plaintifff or his attorney may elect to proceed
against him for the amount; otherwise the sheriff shall treat the sale as a l'lllllltyi
and may dsell the property on the same day, or after a postponement as above
authorize . 

SEC. 3090. [Sales vacated _when execution is not a lien.]——When any
person shall purchase at a sheriff’s sale any real estate on which the judgment
upon which the execution issued was not a lien at the time of the levy, and Wliw
fact was unknown to the purchaser, the court shall set aside such sale on motion,
notice havmg been given to the debtor as in case of action, and a new execution
may be issued to enforce the Judgment, and upon the order being made to set asule
the sale, the sheriﬁ‘ or Judgment-creditor shall pay over to the purchaser the pur
chase-money; said motion may also be made by any person interested in the real
estate.

SEC. 3091- [Disposition of money leVied on.]—Money levied upon_ may be
appropriated Without being advertised or sold. The same may be done With bank
bills, draits, promissory notes or other papers of the like character, if the plaintifff
Will receive them at their par value as cash, or if the ofﬁcer can exchange them
for cash at that value.
SEC. 3092. [Judgment against executor or decedent: how satisﬁed
from real propertyJ—th a judgment has been obtained against the execu
tor of one deceased, or against the decedent in his lifetime, which the personal
estate of the deceased is insufﬁcient to satisfy, the plaintifff may ﬁle his petition in
the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court where the judgment is a lien against the execu
tor, the heirs and devisees of real estate, if such there be, setting forth the facts,
and that there is real estate of the deceased, describing its location and extent,
and praying the court to award execution against the same.

SEC. 3093. [Notice.j—The person against whom the petition is ﬁled shall be
notiﬁed by the plaintiff to appear on the ﬁrst day of the term, and show cause, if
any he have, why execution should not be awarded. ‘
SEC. 3094. [How served and returned. I—The notice shall be served and
returned in the oridinziry manner, and the same length of time shall be allowed for
appearance as in civil actions, and service of such notice on non-resident defend
ants may be had in in such cases by publication.
Sec. 3095. [Execution awarded,]—-At the proper time, the court shall award
the execution unless sufﬁcient cause be shown to the contrary. _
SEC. 3096. [Non-age,]—The non-age of the heirs or devrsees shall not be deemed
such sufﬁcient cause.
Sec. 3097. [Mutual judgments set 0H1]-'—Mutual judgments, the executions
on which are in the hands of the same officer, may be set 011' the one against the
other; except that the costs shall not be set 05', unless the balance of cash actually
collected on the large judgment is sufﬁcient to pay the costs of both judgments,
and such costs shall be paid therefrom accordingly.

SEC. 3098. [\Vhen sale absolute.]—When real property has been levied upon
if the estate is less than a leasehold having two years of unexpired term, the sale
is absolute.
SEC. 3099. [When redeemable.|——When the estate is of a larger amount, the
property is redeemable as hereinafter prescribed.

Sec. 3100. [How done and amount it must sell foul—Personal property
levied upon and advertised for sale on execution must be appraised before sale by
two disinterested householders of the neighborhood, one of whom shall be chosen
by the execution debtor and the other by the plaintifff, or in case of the absence of
either party, or if either or both parties neglect or refuse to make choice,
the ofﬁcer making the levy shall choose one or both, as the case may be.
who shall forthwith proceed to return to said ofﬁcer a just and true appraise
ment, under oath, of said property if they can agree; and in case they cannot
agree, they shall choose another disinterested householder, and with his assistance
they shall complete such appraisement. and the roperty shall not be sold for less
than two-thirds of said valuation; provided, that t e same shall be offered for three
successive days at the same place and hour of day as advertised, and if no other
equal to two-thirds the value thereof be made, then it shall be lawful to sell said
property for one-half of said valuation.

SEC. 3101. [Oﬂ‘icer to execute deed or certiﬁcate. l—If the property sold is
not subject to redemption, the sheriff must execute a deed therefore to the purchaser;
but if the same is subject to redemption, he shall execute to such purchaser a cer
tiﬁcate containing a description of the property and the amount of money paid 0i
such purchaser, and stating that unless redemption is made Within one year there
after according to law, he or his heirs or assigns will be entitled to a deed for the
same. 
SEC. 3102. [By defendant, Whell.]-—The defendant may redeem real PI'OP'
erty at any time Within one year from the day of the sale as herein provided; all
will, in the meantime, be entitled to the possession of the property. But in 110
action where the defendant has taken an appeal from the circuit or district court,
or stayed execution on the judgment, shall he be entitled to redeem.

SEC. 3103. When by creditors. ~F0r the ﬁrst six months after such sale,
his right to re eem is exclusive; but 1 no redemption is made by him at the end
of that time, any creditor of the defendant whose demand is a lien upon such real
estate, may redeem the same at any time Within nine months from the day of sale.
But a mechanic‘s lien, before judgment thereon, is not of such character as to
entitle the holder to redeem.

SEC. 31Q4. [WhO creditor.]—Auy creditor whose cla1m_becomes a lien prior
tothe expiration of the time allowed by law for the redemption by creditors may
redeem. A mortgagee may thus redeem before or after the debt secured by the
mortgage falls due.

SEC. 3_105. [May redeem from each other, —O_reditors haying the right of
redemption may redeem from each other Within t e time above limited, and in the
manner herein provided. _
See Seems 11. Wood, Bacon d- Co., 1210wa. 295. cited in notes toscction 3102. _
SEC. 3106. The terms of redemption in all cases Will be the reimbursement
of the amount paid by the then holder, added to the amount of his own lien. with
interest on the whole at the rate of ten per cent per unnum, too'ether With costs,
subiect t0_the exception contained in the next section. But where a mortgagee
whose claim is not yet due is the person from whom the redemption is thus to be
made, arebate of interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum must be made by
such mortgagee on his claim.

SEC. 3107. [Senior creditor-J—Whm a senior creditor thus_redeems from his
lnnior, he is required to pay 011' only the amount of those liens which are paramount
to his own, with the interest and costs appertaining to those liens.
SEC. 3108. [Junior, j—The junior creditor may in all such cases prevent a redemp
llfm by the holder of the paramount lien by paying off the lien, or by leaving
With the clerk beforehand the amount necessary therefore.
SEC. 3109. A junior judgment creditor may redeem from a. senior judgment
Creditor, by praying to the party, the clerk, or the sheriff, if execution has issued,
the full sum due, with interest and costs, and shall become thereby vested with
the title to_ the judgment so redeemed. 

SEC. 3110. [When money paid to sheriﬂ.l—If paid to the sheriﬂ‘, he shall
give to the party redeeming a certiﬁcate thathe has paid such sum for the redemp
tion of the judgment, describing it, which being presented to the clerk, he shall
enter such redemption on the judgment docket, as he shall also do if the money is
paid to himself. _ , '
Sec. 3111. [Junior from senior creditor.]-Whenever a senior creditor
redeems from 8.1!.111101‘ creditor, the latter may in return redeem from the former.
and so on as often as the land is taken ifer him by virtue of a paramount lien.
Sec. 3112. [When right of creditors expire.]——After the expiration of
.
.
.
nine months from the day of sale, the creditors can no longer redeem from each
other except as hereinafter provided. But the defendant may still redeem at any
time before the end of the year as aforesaid.
SEC. 3113. [Who gets r0perty.]—Unless the defendant thus redeems. the
purchaser, or the creditor w 0 has last redeemed prior to the expiration of the nine
months aforesaid, will hold_the property absolutely. _
SEC. 3114. [Claim extinct.]_—1n case it is thus held by a redeeming creditor,
his lien, and the claim out of which it arose, Will be held to be extinguished, unless
he pursues the course pointed out in the next section. t
SEC. 3115- [Exception.]—If he is unwilling to hold the property and credit
the defendant therefore With the full amount of his lien, he must, within ten days
after the nine months'afoersaid, enter on the sale book the utmost amount that he
is thus Willing to credit on his claim.

Sec. 3116. [Further redemptionsJ—Any unsatisﬁed lien creditor, With"!
ten'days after the expiration of t e time thus allowed to make the entry require
in the last section, may redeem the property by paying the amount of the legﬂl
disbursements of the last holder as hereinbefore regulated, added to the amount
thus entered on the sale book, together with interests and costs.
SEC. 3117. [Same.l——Slich redemptioner shall also credit the defendant with the
full amount of his lien, unless within ten days after redeeming as aforesaid, he
likewise makes a like entry on the sale book, in which case any unsatisﬁed lien
creditor may in like manner redeem within ten days as aforesaid, and so on until
there are no more unsatisﬁed liens, or until the expiration of the year for redemp
tion, the defendant having the ﬁnal privilege of redeeming from the last redemp
tioner at the end of the year. 

SEC. 3118- [M0118 0f redemEtionJ—The mode of making the redemption is by
paying the moneyr into the cler ’s olﬁce for the use of the persons thereto entitled.
The person so redeeming, if not defendant in execution, must also ﬁle his afﬁdavit.
or that of his agent or attorney, stating as nearly as practicable the amount still
no aid and due on his own claim.

Sec. 3119. [Samuel—The clerk shall thereu on give him a receipt for the money
stating the purpose for which it was paid. e must also, at the same time, enter
in the sale book a minute of such redemption, of the amount paid, and the amount
of the lieu of the last redemptioner as sworn to by him.
SEC. 3120 [Entitled to assignment.]—A creditor redeeming as above con
templated, is entitled to receive an assignment of the certiﬁcate issued by the
sherilt to the original purchaser as herein before directed.
SEC, 3121. [Sale in parcels.]—-thn the property has been sold in parcels,
any distinct portion may be redeemed by itself.
Sec. 3122. [Tenants in commonJ—When the interests of several tenants in
common have been sold on execution, the undivided portion of any or either of
them may be redeemed separately. _
SEC. 3123. [Defendant may transfer rightJ—The'rlghts of the defendant
ludrelation t0 redemption are transferable, and the assignee has the like power to
re em.

SEC. 312-1 [Deed made to whom.]—lf the defendant or his assignee fail to
redeem. the sheriﬂ' must, at the end of the year, execute a deed to the person who
isentitled to the certiﬁcate as hereinbefore provided, or_to his assignee. If the
Parson entitled be dead, the deed shall be made to ill!) heirs. but the property will
besubject to the payment of the debts of the deceased m the same manner as if
acquired during his lifetime.

SEC. 3125. (As amended by ch.146, 21st 9. a.) [When evrdence of title to be
recordedJ—The purchaser of real estate at a sale on execution, need not place
31}? evuieuce of his purchase upon record until [sixty] days after the expiration
otthe full time of redemption. Up to that time, the publication of the proceed~
“'55 18 constructive notice of the rights of the purchaser, but no longer

SEC. 3126. [Deeds imply regularityJ—Deeds executed by a sheriﬁ' in pur
suance of the sales contemplated in this chapter, are presumptive evidence of the
regularity of all previous proceedings in the case, and may be given in evidence
without preliminary proof.
SEC. 3127. [Damagesj—Wlwu real estate has been sold on execution, the pur
chaser thereof, or any person who has succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate
becomes absolute, recover damages for any in'ury to the property committed after
the sale and before possession is delivered un er the conveyance. ,
SEC. 3128. “Defendant”: “ plaintiﬁ‘.”]—The term “defendant,” as herein
used, is inten ed to designate the party against whom, and the term “plaintifff”
the party in favor of whom, any execution is issued. ’
Sec. 3129, [Application to justices’ proceedings.]—The provisions of this chapter are intended to embrace proceedings in justices’ court-s, so far as they are
applicable; and the terms “sheriff” and “clerk” are accordingly to be understood,
as qualiﬁed in this chapter, in the same manner in this respect as in that relative
to attachment.


SEC. 3130. [Death of_ plaintifff: how execution may issuing—The death
of one or all the plaintiﬂs shall not prevent an execution being issue , but on such
execution the clerk shall indorse the death of such of them as are dead, and if all
be dead, the names of the personal representatives, or the. last survivor, if the judg
ment passed to the personal representatives, or the names of the survivors” hens,
if the judgment was for real property.

SEC. 3131. [Ofﬁcer’s duty.]—The sheriff, in acting upon execution indorsed
as previded in the last section, shall proceed as if the surviving plaintifff or plain—
titfs, or the personal representatives or heirs, were the only plaintifffs in execution,
and take bonds accordingly.
SEC. 3132. [Afﬁdavit re uired.]——Before making the indorsements named
above, an affidavit shall be ﬁle with the clerk by one of the plaintifffs or personal
representatives, or heirs or their attorney, of the death of the defendant, and that
the persons named as such are the personal re resentatives or heirs; and in the case
of personal representatives, they shall ﬁle wit the clerk a certiﬁcate of their quali'
ﬁcation, according to law in this state. '
SEC. 3133. [Death of part of Defendants.]—The death of only part of the
defendants, shall not prevent execution being issued, which, however, shall operate
alone on the survivors and their property.

SEC. 3134. [When execution may be quashed. ]-—-The defendant may
move the court to quash an execution, on the ground that the personal represen
tatives or heirs of a deceased plaintiﬁ' are not properly stated in the indorsernent
0n the execution, and, during the vacation of the court, may obtain an injunction,
upon its being made to appear that the persons named are not entitled to the judg
ment on which the execution was issued.

SEC. 3135. [Defendant examined.] —When execution against the prop
erty of a judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same ﬂjudgment, has
been issued from the district, circuit, or supreme court to the sheri of the county
where such debtor resides, or if he do not reside in the state, to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment was rendered or transcript of a justice's judgment has
n ﬁled, and execution issued thereon is returned unsatisﬁed in whole or in part,
the owner of the judgment is entitled to an order for the appearance and examina
tion of such debtor. \
SEC. 3136. [Same.]—-The like order may be obtained at any time after the issu
ing of an execution, upon proof, by the afﬁdavit of the party or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the court or ofﬁcer who is to grant the same, that any judgment
(tlgbtmli has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of
e 11 went.

SEC. 3137. [By whom order granted.]—Such order may be made by the dis
trict or circuit court of the county in which the judgment was rendered, or to
Which execution has been issued, or in vacation by a judge thereof. And the
ebtor may be required to appear and answer before either of such courts or judges,
01' before a referee appointed for that purpose by the court or judge who issued the
order to report either the evidence or the facts. _
SEC. 3138. [Debtor interrogated.]—The debtor, on 1113 appearance, may be
interrogated in relation to any facts calculated to show the amount of his property,
or the isposition~ which has been made of it, or any other matter pertaining to the
purposes for which the examination is permitted to be made. And the interrog
atories and answers shall be reduced to writing and preserved by the court or
ofﬁcer before whom they are taken. All examinations and answers under this chapter shall be on oath, and no person shall, on such examination, be excused
from answering any questions on the ground that his examination will tend to
convict him of a fraud. but his answers shall not be used as evidence against him
in a prosecution for such fraud.
SEC. 3139. [Witness examined.]——-Witnesses may be required by the order of
the court or judge. or by subpoenas from the referee, to appear and testify upon
any proceedings under this chapter in the same manner as upon the trial of an
issue.
SEC. 3140. [Property_f0und: disposition 0f.]—If any property, rights, or
credits, subject to execution are thus ascertained, an execution may be issued and
they may be levied upon accordingly. The court or judge may order any property of
the judgment debtor not exempt by law, in the hands either of himself or any
other person or corporation. or due to the judgment debtor to be delivered up, or
in any other mode applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

SEC. 3141. [Receiver.]—The court or judge may also, by order, appoint the
sheriff of the proper county or other suitable person a receiver of the property: of
the judgment debtor, and may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disp0sit1011
of the property of‘the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, or may forbid MY
interference therewith.
SEC. 3142. [Equitable iptcrestJ—If it shall appear that the judgment debtor
has any equitable Interest in real estate in the county in which proceedings are
bad, as mortgagor, mottgagee, or otherwise, and the interest of said debtor can be
ascertained as between himself and the person holding the legal estate, or having
any lien on, or Interest In the same, without controversy as to the interest of such
rson, the receiver may be ordered to sell and convey such real estate or the
debtor’s equitable Interest therein, in the same manner as is provided by this code
for the sale of real estate upon execution.
SEC. 3143. ESherlﬁ'liableJ—If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and
his sureties s all be liable on his olﬁcial bond for the faithful discharge of his
duties as such. _
SEC. 3144. [Continuance.]——The judge or referee acting under the provisions
of this cha ter, shall have power to continue his proceedings from time to time
until they shall be completed.
SEC. 3145. [Defendant failing to appearJ—Should the judgment debtor
fail to appear after being personally serve with notice to that effect, or should he
fail to make full answer to all proper interrogatories thus propounded to him. he
will be guilty of contempt and may be arrested and imprisoned until he compile"8
with the requirements of the law in this respect. And if any person, party 01'
iritness, disobey an order of the court or judge, or referee, duly served, such person,
y or witness may be punished as for contempt.
Sec. 3146. [Service 0f order.]-—The order mentioned herein shall be in writ
ing and signed by the court or judge or referee making the same, and shall be
served in the same manner as an original notice in other cases.
SEC. 3147. [Compensation of oﬂicers and witnesses.J—Sheriﬁ‘s, referees,
receivers and witnesses, shall receive such compensation as is allowed for like ser
vices in other cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and the collection thereof
from such party or parties as ought to pay the same shall be enforced by an order.

Sec. 3148. [When warrant of arrest to issue. ]—Up0n proof to the satis
faction of the court, or oﬁicer authorized to grant the order aforesaid. that there is
danger that the defendant will leave the state, or that he will conceal himself, the
said court or oﬁcer, instead of the order aforesaid, may issue a warrant for the
arrest of the debtor, and for bringing him forthwith before the court or ofﬁcer
authorized to take his examination as hereinbefore provided. After being thus
brought before the said court or ofﬁcer, he may be examined in the same manner
with the like effect as is above provided.
SEC. 3149, [Defendant to give bond-l-Upon being brought before the
court or oﬂicer he may enter into an undertaking in such sum as the court or
ofﬁcer shall prescribe, with one or more sureties, that he will attend from time to
time for examination before the court or oiiicer as shall be directed, and will not,
111 the meantime, dispose of his property, or any part thereof; in default whereof
he shall continue under arrest, and may be committed to jail on the warrant of
such court or ofﬁcer from time to time for safe keeping until the examination
shall be concluded.

SEC. 3150. [How and when brought,]—At any time after the rendition of a
Judgment, an action by equitable proceedings may be brought to subject any prop
erty, money, rights, credits or interest therein belonging to the defendant, to the
satisfaction of such judgment. In such action, persons indebted to the judgment
debtor, or holding any property or money in which such debtor has any interest,
or the evidences of sureties for the same, may be made defendants.
Sec. 3151. [Answers veriﬁed: petition taken as trueJ—The answers of
all defendants shall be veriﬁed by their own oath, and not by that of an agent 01
attorney, and the court shall enforce full and explicit discoveries in such answers
by Process of contempt; or upon failure to answer, the petition, or any part
thereof, as fully and explicitly as the court may requlre, the same, or such part
not thus answered, shall be deemed true, and such orders made or judgment rend
ered as the nature of the case may require. _
SEC. 3152. [Lien created from time of servrce of notice.]—-In the case
contemplated in the two preceding sections, a lien shall be created on the property
Of the judgment debtor, or his interest therein, in the hands of any defendant or
under his control, which is sufﬁciently described in the petition, from the time of
the controlling such property or any interest therein.

SEC. 3153. [Surrender of property enforced.]——The court shall enforce
the surrender of the money or Securities therefore, or of any other property of the
defendant in the execution which may be discovered in the action, and for this
purpose may commit to jail any defendant or garnishee failing or refusing to make
such surrender until it shall be done, or the court is satisﬁed that it is out of his
power to do so.

SEC. 3154. [By court where renderedJ—Tha district or circuit court in
which a judgment has been rendered, or by which, or by the judge of which, a
ﬁnal order has been made, shall have power after the term at which such judgment
or order was made to vacate or modify such judgment or order:
I. By granting a new trial for the cause within the time and in the manner pre
scribed by the sections on new trials;
.2. By a new trial granted on proceedings against defendants served by publica
tion only, as prescribed in title seventeen, chapter nine, section two thousand eight
hundred and seventy-seven;
. 3. For mistake, neglect, or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a
Judgment or order;
:- For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the judgment or
or er;
5. For erroneous proceedings against a minor or person of unsound mind, when
the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the errors in
the proceedings;
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the action;
_ 7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing the party from prosecut
mg or defending;
. 8. Egrﬁrror in a judgment shown by a minor within twelve months after arriv
mg 8 u e.
his only agge

SEC. 3155. [Petition for new trial: when, proper mode.]—When the
grounds for a new trial could not with reasonable diligence have been discovered
before, but are discOVered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee, or
decision was rendered or made, the application may be made by petition ﬁled as in
other cases, not later than the second term after the discoVery, on which notice
shall be served and returned, and the defendant held to appear as in an ori inal
action. The facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied wit out
answer. The case shall be tried as other cases by ordinary proceedings, but no
petition shall be ﬁled more than one year after the ﬁnal judgment was rendered.

SEC. 3156. [Mistakes of clerk and irregularityJ—The proceedings to
correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a Judgment
or order, shall be by motion served on the adverse party, or on his attorney in the
action and within one year; and when made to vacate a Judgment because of irreg—
ularity in obtaining it, must be made on the second day of the succeeding term.

SEC. 3157. [When petitiOn must be ﬁled.]—The proceedings, to obtain the
beneﬁt of subdivisions four, ﬁve, six, seven and eight of section three thousand one
hundred and ﬁfty-four of this chapter, shall be by petition, veriﬁed by afﬁdavit,
setting forth the judgment or order, the facts or errors constituting a cause to
vacate or modify it, and the facts constituting a defense to the action if the party
applying was a defendant, and such proceedings must be commenced within one
year after the judgment or order was made, unless the party entitled thereto be a
minor or person of unsound mind, and then Within one year from the removal of
such disability.

Sec. 3158. [Party brought into court in the ordinary way.]—-In such
Proceedings the party shall be brought into court in the same way, on the same
notice as to time, mode of service, and mode of return, and the pleadings shall be
governed by the rinciples, and issues he made up by the same form, and all the
Proceedings con acted in the same way, as near as can be, as in original
ﬁction by ordinary proceedings, except that defendant shall introduce no new cause,
alld the cause of the petition shall alone be tried.

Sec. 3159. [Not vacated until it is adjudged there is a defensel-The
judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition until it is adjudged that there
is a valid defense to the action in which the judgment is rendered; or, if the plain
tiff seeks its Vacation, that there is a valid cause of action; and when judgment is
modiﬁed, all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modi
ﬁed judgment.
Sec. 3160. [First try grounds to vacateJ—The court may ﬁrst try and
decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order before trying or
deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause of action.

SEC. 3161. Injunction.]—The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, may 0 tain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part
thereof, which injunction may be granted by the court or the judge upon its being
rendered probable, by atﬁdavit or petition sworn to, or by exhibition of the record,
that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order vacated or modiﬁed.
SEC. 3162. [When Judgment is afﬁrmed.]—In all cases of aﬂirmauce of the
judgment or order, when the proceedings have been suspended, judgment shall be
rendered against the plaintifff in error for the amount of the former judgment,
interests and costs, together with damages at the discretion of the court, not
exceeding ten per cent on the amount of the judgment.
SECTION 3163- rom What appeals may be taken.]—The supreme court
has appellate jurisdiction _over all judgments and decisions of all other courts of
record, as well 1n case of and action as in proceedings of a special or independent
character.

SEC. 3164. An appeal may also be taken to the supreme court from the
followmg orders:
‘ 1. An order made affecting a substantial right in an action, when such order,
iiieﬂ'ect, determines the action and prevents a judgment from which an appeal
might be taken; , . .
2. A ﬁnal order made in special proceedings aﬂ‘ectiiig a substantial right therein,
or made on a summary application in an action after Judgment; _
3. When an order grants or refuses, continues or modiﬁes a provisional remedy;
or grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dissolve an injunction or attachment;
when it grants or refuses a new trial, or when it sustains orpverrules a demurrer;
d 4. _ An intermediate order involving the merits and materially affecting the ﬁnal
eciswn;
0. An order or judgment on habeas corpus. 

SEC. 3165. [Orders made by Judge.]—lf any of_ the above orders are made
hyajudge, the same is reviewuble in the same way as if made by a court.

SEC. 8166. [Court may prescribe rules.]—The court may also, in its dis
cretion. prescribe rules for allowing appeals on such other intermediate orders or
decisions as is deemed expedient. and for permitting the same to be taken and tried
during the progress of the trial in the court below; but such intermediate appeals
must not retard, proceedings in the court from which the appeal is taken.
SEC. 3167, [Mistakes of clerk below.]-—-A mistake of the clerk shall not
be ground for an appeal until the same has been presented and acted upon by the
court below.
SEC. 3168. A Judgment or order shall not be reversed for an error
which can be corrected on motion in an inferior court, until such motion has been
made there and overruled. 

SEC. 3169_ [Motion for new trial.]——The supreme court may review and
reverse-0n appeal any judgment or order of the district or circuit court, although
no motion for a new trial was made in such courts. 

SEC. 3170. [Finding of facts: evrdence certiﬁed.]—-Where a cause is tried
by the court, it shall not be necessary in order to secure a revrcw of the same in
the supreme court that there should have been any ﬁnding of facts or conclusions
of law stated inthe record, but the supreme court shall hear and determine the
same whenever 11: shall. appear from a certiﬁcate of the judge, agreement of parties
or thelr attorneys, or. in case the evidence consists wholly of written testimony,
from the certlﬁcate of the clerlr, that the transcript contains all the evidence intro
duced by the parties on the trlal 111 the court below.

SEC. 3171- [HOW docketed.]—The cause shall be docketecl as it was in the court
below, and the party taking the appeal shall be called the appellant, and the other
party the appellee. '
SEC. 3172- [ProcessJ—The court may issue all writs and process necessary for
the exercise and inforcement of its appellate jurisdiction.
SEC. 3173- [Appeals when taken; limitation on rightJ—Appeals from
the distTiCt 311d Clrcult COIlrtS may be taken to the supreme court at any time
within six months from the rendition of the judgment or order appealed {roman
not afterward' Bl“; no appeal Shall be taken in any (381186 in which the amountv "1
contrOVersy between the parties, as shown by the pleadings, does not exceed one
hundred dollars, unless the trial judge shall certify that such cause involves-the
determination of a question of law upon which it is desirable to have the Opinion
of the supreme court, but this limitation shall not aﬂ'ect the right of appeal in
any cause in which is involved any interest in real property.

SEC. 3174. [Part Of OO-PaI‘tiBS may appeal.]_——A part of several co-parties
myappeal; but in such case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the
other co-parties and ﬁle the proof thereof With the clerk of the supreme court.

Sec. 3175. [When they refuse t0j0ill.]——If the other co-parties refuse to join
they cannot, nor can any of them. take an appeal afterwards; nor shall they derive
any beneﬁt from the appeal, unless from the necessity of the case.
SEC. 3176. [When deemed to have joined.]—Unless they appear and (le
cline to join. they shall be deemed to have Joined. and shall be liable for their due
pro ortion of costs,

SEC. 3277. [Appeal from part of iudgment or order.]—An appeal from
part of an order. or from one of the judgments of a ﬁnal adjudication, or from
part of a judgment, shall not disturb or delay the rights of any party to any judg
ment. or part of a judgment. or order not appealed from,'but the same shall pro
ceed as if no such appeal had been made.

SEC. 31.78: . [HOW taken: notice.]——An appeal is taken by the serVice of ii
notice in writing on the adverse party. his agent. or any attorney who appeared
for him in the case in the court below, and also upon the clerk of the court wherein
the proceedings were bad, stating the appeal from the same, or from some specilic
part thereof, deﬁningsuch part.

SEC. 3180. [When tried, -—The notice of a peal must be served at least thirty
days, and the cause ﬁled and ocketed at least ﬁ teen days before the ﬁrst day of the
next term of the supreme court, or the same shall not then be tried unless by con
seat of parties. _If the appeal is taken less than thirty days before the term, it
must be so ﬁled and dockcted before the next succeeding term. '
Sec. 3181. [For failure to ﬁle transcript and docket appeal: dismissed
0!“ Judgment atﬁrmed.]—If the appellant falls to ﬁle a transcript and have the
cause docketcd as provided in the preceding section, or fails _to ﬁle at the time the
transcript should be ﬁled, the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the inferior court, stating
When he was served with notice, and that he has not had sufﬁcient time to pre
pare the transcript, the appellee may ﬁle a certiﬁed copy of the Judgment or order
appealed from, and of the notice served on such clerk, and, on motion, have the
appeal dismissed or the judgment or order appealed from afﬁrmed.

SEC. 3152. If the transcript has been sent up, but the appellant does not
file the same when the same should be ﬁled as herein provided, the appellee may
ﬁle the same, and may. on motion, have the appeal dismissed or the judgment
alhriiicd, as the court, from the circumstances of the case, shall determine.

SEC. 1. [Appeal not to be dismissed or judgment afﬁrmed, when.]~
———Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of 101m: That no appeal to
the supreme court of the state shall be dismissed or judgment of court below
afﬁrmed because the said cause was not docketed or transcript ﬁled in supreme
court. if it be made to appear that an appeal was taken in good faith and not for
delay, or if, from the conduct of appellee or his counsel, appellant Was induced to
believe no motion to dismiss or afﬁrm would be made.

Sec. 3183. [Same as to assignment of errors. J—If, the transcript being
ﬁled. errors are not assrgued and ﬁled with the clerk of the supreme court. and 5
copy of the same servsd on the appellee or his attorney ten days before the ﬁrst
day of the trial term, the appellee may have the ap eal dismissed or the judgment
or order afﬁrmed, unless good cause f0r the failure shown by afﬁdavit.

SEC. 3184. [What shall be sent up.]——_In an action by ordinary proceedmg§i
and in an action by equitable proceedings, tried in the whole or in part on oral testi
mony, all proper entries made by the clerk, and all papers pertaining to the cause
and ﬁled therein, except subpoenas, depositions, and other papers which are used
as mere evidence, are to be deemed part of the record. But in an action by equl
sble proceedings tried upon written testimony, the depositions and all papers which
were used as evidence are to be certiﬁed up to the supreme court, and shall be so cer
tiﬁed, not by transcript but in the original form. But a transcript of a motion,
aiﬁdiivit or other paper, when it relates to a collateral matter, shall not be certiﬁed
unless by direction of the appellant. If so certiﬁed when not material to the
determination of the appeal the court may direct the person blameable therofor to
paly the costs thereof.

SEC. 318;». [Power to obtain perfect transcrith—The RPPPllfmt 511311.51”
a perfect transcript, and to that end the clerk of the court below must, at any time
on his suggestion of the diminution of the record and on the payment of fees, cer
tify up any omitted part of the record, according to the truth. as the same appears in
his oﬁice of record; and such applicant shall not be entitled to any continuance in
order to correct the record. unless it shall clearly appear to the court that lie Is not
in fault. _ Subject to which requirement, either party may on motion before trial
day, obtain an order on the court below_, commanding him to transmit at once to
the supreme court a true copy pf such imperfect or omitted part of the record as
shall be in general terms described 111.1211? alﬁdavit or order. Such motion must be
supported by affidavit. unless the diminution be apparent or admitted by the
adverse party, and must not be granted unless the court is satisﬁed that it is not
made for delay.

Sec. 3186. [How obtained: bond, conditions and approval. ~An
appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment or order, or any part tiereoi
unless the appellant shall cause to be executed before the clerk of the court which
rendered the judgment or order, by one or more sufﬁcient sureties to be approv
by such clerk, a. bond to the effect that the appellant shall pay to the appellee all
costs and damages that shall he adjudged against the appellant on the appeal; ills?
that he will satisfy and perform the judgment or order appealed from in case ll;
shall be afﬁrmed, and any judgment or order which the supreme court may renderi
or order to be rendered by the inferior court, not exceeding in amount or value the
original judgment or order, and all rents or damages to property during the pen
dency of the appeal out of the possessron of whic the appelle is kept by reason
of the appeal. If the bond is intended to stay proceedings on only a part of the
judgment or order, 1t shall be varied so as to secure the part stayed alone. When
such bond has been approved by the. clerk, and ﬁled, heshall issue a written order
commanding the appellee and all others to stay proceedings on such judgment or
order, or on such_ part as is superseded as the case may be. N0 appeal or stay shall
vacate or affect the judgment appealed from.

SEC. 3187. [When su reme court or judge may ﬁx condition of bond
and approve same.]— n cases wherein the appellant has perfected his appeal
to the supreme court, and the clerk of the district or circuit court has unjustly
refused to approve the appeal bond oﬂered, or makes the penalty therein too large,
or the conditions thereof unjust, the appellant may move the supreme court, if in
session, or in its vacation, on such written notice to the appellee as the judge may
prescribe, may move any judge thereof to determine the conditions, ﬁx the penalty,
and approve the appeal bond. The motion, veriﬁed by the afﬁdavit of the appel
lant or his attorney, shall contain a brief statement of the nature of the action in
which the appeal was taken, of the judgment or order appealed from, of the steps
taken by the appellant with reference to his appeal, and of his giving, or oﬁ'ering to
tht, an appeal bond, of the action of the court below with reference to such bond,
and wherein he has acted wrongfully; and if the supreme court, or any judge
thereof, considers that the clerk has made unjust conditions in the bond, or the
penalty thereof too high, or has wrongfully refused to approve the same, such
court or judge shall issue an order prescribing the conditions of the appeal bond,
bring the penalty thereof, and either approve it or direct the clerk of the supreme
court so to do, which bond shall be ﬁled with the oﬂicer last named. The
supreme court, or judge thereof, may order that all or any part of the papers and
records in the cause appealed, or certiﬁed copies thereof, be produced on the
caring of such motion and pending the disp0sition thereof, may make an order
8laying the enforcement of the judgment or order, appealed from and on
such terms asare just. The order, if made b the judge, shall be in writing
{1nd signed by him, and upon the service thereo , or of a certiﬁed copy, when made
In court, upon the clerk of the court below, all proceedings in the court appealed
from shall he stayed, and all orders, processes, executions, or other papers issued
therefrom shall be recalled, and the appellant be placed in the same condition that
e was when the judgment or order appealed from was made or rendered.
SEC. 3188. [How and when additional surety obtained .]--If the appellee
believe the bond defective, or the sureties insufﬁcient, he may move the supreme
court if in session, or in its vacation, on ten days written notice to the appellant,
may move any judge of said court, or the judge of the court below where the
appeal was taken, to discharge the bond, and if the court or such judge shall con
sider the snreties insufﬁcient, or the bond substantially defective in securing the
rights of the appellee, the court or such judge shall issue an order discharging
such bond, unless a good bond, with suﬁ‘icient snreties, be executed by a day by
him ﬁxed. The order, if made by a judge, shall be in writing and signed by him;
and upon his ﬁling, or the ﬁling of a certiﬁed copy of the order when made in
court, in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the inferior court, execution and other proceed
ings for enforcing the 'udgment or order may be taken if a new and good bond is
not ﬁled and :1 proved y the day as aforesaid.
SEC.3189. L roceedings stayed.]——But another order staying proceedings
may be issued by the clerk, upon the execution before him of a new and lawful
bond with suﬂicient sureties as hereinbefore provided.
SEC. 3190. [Penalty 0f bond.]-—If the judgment or order is- for the payment
of money, the penalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the judgment cnd
costs. If not for the payment of money, the penalty shall besuﬂicient to save the
appellee harmless from the consequences of taking the appeal. But it shall in no
case be less than one hundred dollars.

Sec. 3191. [When appeal is from a part only.]-The taking of the appeal
from the part of a judgment or order, and the ﬁling of a bond as above directed,
does not cause astay of execution as to any part of the judgment or order not
appealed from.
SEC. 3192. [Execution recalled.]—-If execution has issued prior to the ﬁling
of the bond above contemplated, the clerk shall countermand the same.
SEC. 3193. [Property SHPI'CIId6P6tlJ—Property levied upon and not sold at
the time such countermand is received by the sheriff, shall forthwith be delivered
up to the judgment debtor.

SEC. 3194. Power of court.]—The supreme court may reverse or aﬁrm the
jud ment or order below, or the part of either appealed from, or may render
such judgment or order as the inferior court or judge should have done, according
as it may think it proper.

SEC. 3195- [Judgment against sureties on stay b0nd._|—The supreme
court, where' it affirms the judgment, shall also, if the appellee moves there
tor, render judgment against the appellant and his sureties on the bond above
mentioned for the amount of the judgment, damages, and costs referred to therein,
home such damages can be accurately known to the court, Without an issue and
SEC. 3196_ [Damages for delay_]-Upon the aﬂirmauce of any judgment or
order for the payment of money, the collection of which in whole or in part has
been superseded by bond as above contemplated. the? CW?“ Shall award to the aP
pellee damages upon the amount superseded; and, if satisﬁed by the record that
the appeal was taken for delay only, must award such sum as damages, not exceed
ing ﬁfteen per cent thereon, as shall eﬁ'ectually tend to prevent the Laking of
appeals for delay only.

SEC. 3l_9'i'. [Cause remandedJ—If the supreme court affirm the judgment
or order, it may send the cause to the court below to have the same carried into
eﬂeﬂh or it may itself issue the necessary process for this purpose and direct such
process to the sheriﬂ' of the proper county, as the garty may require.

SEC. 3198. [Restitution 0f property.]-If, by the decision of the supreme
court, the appellant becomes entitled to a restoration of any part of the money or
property that was taken from him by means of such judgment or order, either the
supreme court or the court below may direct execution or writ of restitution to
issue for the purpose of restoring to such appellant his property or the value
thereof.

SEC. 3199. L'ljltle 110$ 8. BOtGdJ—Propcrty acquired by a purchaser in good
faith under a Judgment subsequently reversed, shall not be aﬁccted by such
reversal.

SEC. 3200. LROWQP t0 imprisonJ—The supreme court shall have power to
enforce its mandates upon interior courts and oﬁicers by ﬁne and imprisonment,
which imprisonment may be continued until obeyed.
Sec. 33201. (As mended by ch. 144, 19m g. a.) [Petition for rehearing Sus
pends Judgment till whenJ—[If a petition for rehearing be ﬁled the sum}?
shall suspend the (lGClSlOlltlt the court on its presentation, or one of the judges If
in vacation, shall so order, in either of which case such decision shall be suspend
until after the ﬁnal arguments prowded for in the next section]

SEC. 3202. (As amended by ch. 144, 19th 9. a.) [Oral argument.]—[Tlic party
ﬁling a petition for rehearing may make the same an argument or a brief of
authorities upon which he relies for s. rehearing, and if he desires to make an oral
argument in support of his petition, and as upon rehearing, he shall make an
indorsement upon his argument, or brief, either in writing or print, stating in sub
tance that the petition[cr] for n. rehearin Will ask to be heard orally in support
thereof, which notice shall be served Wit the petition for rehearing upon the
adverse party, and deposited with the clerk of the supreme court; and insuch case
such petitioner and the counsel for the adverse party shall have the right to be
heard orally thereon at the next term of said court, or any subsequent term to
which the same is continued. In such case it shall be the duty of the clerk to
place the cause wherein the petition is ﬁled upon the docket for the next term of
the court, beginning not less than twenty days after the deposuting of the petition,
indorsed as aforesai , in his 0ﬁice.] 

SEC. 3203. [Clerk to docket and arran ecauscs: notice of.]—The clerk
Shall docket the causes as the same are ﬁled in is oﬂice, and shall arrange and set
aproper number for trial for each they of the term, placing together those from the
same judicial district, and shall cause notice of the manner he has set such causes
to be published and distributed in such manner as the court may direct.
SEC. 3204. [Hear causes: argumentJ—Ths court shall hear all the
causes docketed, when not continued by consent. or for cause shown by the party,
and the party may be heard orally or otherwise, in his discretion.
_ bro. 3205. [Opinion ﬁled,]-—No cause is decided until the opinion in writing
18 tied with the clerk.
SEC. 3206. [What done in court below on reversal. —If remanded to the
interior court to be carried into effect, such decision and t e order of the court
thereon, being certiﬁed thereto and entered on the records of the court, shall have
311% same force and cited: as if made and entered during the session of the court in
a istrict.
Sec. 3207. [Assignment of errors: form of.]—An assignment of error
need follow no stated form, but must, in a way as speciﬁc as the cause will allow,
point out the very error objected to. Among several pornts in a demurrer, or in a
motion, or instructions, or rulings in an exception, it must designate which is relied

SEC. 3208. [Motion book.]—-All motions must be entered in the motion book,
and shall stand over till the next morning after the morning on which entered,
and till after having been publicly called by the court, unless the parties otherwise
agree, and the adverse party shall be deemed to have notice of such motion.
SEC. 32m [When original paper sent up, fl/Yhere a view of an original
Paper in the action may be important to a correct ecision of theappeal, the court
may order the clerk of the court below to transmit the same, which he shall do in
some safe mode. to the clerk of the supreme court, who shall hold the same subject
to the control of the court.
SEC. 3210. [Security for cogts,]-—The appellant may be required to give
Security for costs under the same circumstances as those in which plaintifffs in civil
ﬁctionsiii the inferior court may be so required.
SEC. 3211- [DOCS not abate by death.]-—-'l‘he death of one or all of the parties
shall not cause the proceedings to abate, but the names of the pr0per persons shall
besulistituted as is provided in such cases in the district and circuit court, and the
we may proceed. The court may also, in such case, grant a continuance when
5th a course will be calculated to promote the ends of justice.
SEC. 3212. [Right to appeal may be lost.]—Where appellant has no right,
01' no further right to prosecute the appeal, the appellee may_ move to dismiss the
“PQQBL and if the grounds of the motion do not appear in the record. or by a
"ﬁling purporting to have been signed by the appellant and ﬁled, they must be
"ﬁlled by afﬁdavit.

SEC. 3213. [Proceedings in such case.]——The appellee may, by answer ﬁled
and veriﬁed by himself, agent, or attorney, lead any facts which render the taking
of the appeal improper or destroy the appellant’s right of further prosecuting the
same, to which answer the appellant may file a reply, likewise veriﬁed by himself,
his algent, otr attorney, and the questions of law or fact therein shall be determined
by t c cour .
SEC. 3214. [Noticesz how served.]—Tbe service of all notices of appeal,
or in any way growing out of such rights or connected therewith, and all notices
in the supreme court, shall be in the way provided for the service of like notices
in the circuit or district court, and they may be served by the same person and
returned in the same manner, and the original notice of the appeal must be
returned immediately after service to the ofﬁce of the clerk of the district or circuit
court where the suit is riding.

SEC. 3215. [Executionsz form (bill—Executions from the supreme court shall
be the same as those from the district or circuit court and attended with the same
consequences, and shall be returnable in the same time.

SECTION 3216. [When the writ may issuefl—The writ of certiorari may be
granted whenever specially authorized by law, and especially in all cases where an
inferior tribunal, bOPI'd; 0.1‘ ofﬁcer exercismg judicial functions is alleged to_have
exceeded his proper Jurisdiction, or is othermse acting illegally, when in the Judg
ment of the superior court there is no other plain, speedy, and adequate remedy.

SEC. 3217. [By whom granted.]—The wnt may be granted by the district
or circuit court, or, in vacation, by a judge or clerk thereof, but if to be directed
to either of such courts or judges, then by the supreme court, or, in vacation, by a
Judge thereof, and shall command the defendant therein to certlfy fully to the
court from which the same issues, at a. speciﬁed time and place,_a transcript of the
records and proceedings, as well as the facts in the case, describing or referring to
them, or any of them, with convenient certainty, and also to have then and there
e writ.

SEC. 3218. [When stay of proceedings is asked.]—If a stay of proceed
mgs IS sought, the writ can only be issued by a court 01' Judge, who may require a
0nd and ﬁx the penalty and conditions thereof; the sureties thereon may be
aPDI'mred by the judge granting, or clerk who issues the writ.

SEC. 3219- [PetitiOIlJ—The petition for the writ must state facts constituting
a case wherein the writ may issue. and must be veriﬁed by aﬂidavit, and the
supreme court or judge issuing the writ, may require notice of the ap lication to
be given the adverse party. or may grant the writ without notice. f astay of
proceedings is sought, the writ can only be granted on reasonable notice of the
time, place and court or judge before whom the application wlll be made.

SEC. 3220. [Service and return.]——The writ must be served and the proof
of such service made in the same manner as is prescribed for the original notice in
a civil action, except that the original shall be left with the defendant, and the
return or proof of service made upon a (:0 y thereof.
SEC. 3221. [Same.]—If the return 0 the writ be defective, the court may
order a further return to be made, and may compel obedience to the writ and to
such further order, b attachment if necessary.
SEC. 3222. [Tria : Judgment.]—When full return has been made, the court
must proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend for that purpose,
on the record proceedings and facts as certiﬁed, and such other testimony, oral or
written, as either party may introduce pertinent to the issue, and may give judg
ment afﬁrming or annulling the roceedings in whole or in part, or, in itsdis
oretion, correcting the same and) prescribing the manner in which the party or
either of them shall further proceed.
SEC. 3223. [HOW prosecuted: Appeal.]—The action shall be prosecuted by
ordinary proceedings so far as applicable, and from the decision of the district or
circuit court an appeal lies as in other ordinary actions, and the record shall be
prepared in the same manner.
SEC. 3224. [leltatlml on right.]—No writ shall be granted after twelve
months have elapsed from the time the inferior court, tribunal. board, or ofﬁcer
has, as alleged, exceeded his proper jurisdiction. or has otherwise acted illegally.

SEC. 3225. [Where brought: statements and veriﬁcation of peti
tionJ—An action for the recovery of speciﬁc personal property may be brought
in any county in which the pr0perty or some part thereof is situated; the petition
must be veriﬁed and must contain:
1. A particular description of the property claimed;
2. Its actual value and, where there are several articles, the actual value of each;
3. The facts constituting the plaintifff’s right to the present possession thereof,
alllld the extent of his interest in the property, whether it be full or qualiﬁed owner
: i P,
4. That it was neither taken on the order or judgment of a court against him,
nor under an execution or attachment against him, or against the property. But;
if it was taken by either of these modes, then is must state the facts constituting
an exemption from seizure by such process;
_5. The facts constituting the alleged cause of detention thereof, according to
his best belief;
6. The amount of damages which the afﬁant believes the plamtiﬂ' ought to
recover for the detention thereof. 

SEC. 3226. [No counterclaim.]-—The action shall be by ordinary proceedings,
but there shall be no joinder of any cause of action not of the some kind, nor shall
there be allowed any counter~cluim.

Sec. 3227. [When process may issue on Sunday.]—I£_ the plaintifff allege
in his petition that he will lose his property unless process issue on Sunday, the
order may beissued and served on that day. _
SEC. 29.8. [New parties,]—-If a third person claim the property or any part
thereof, the plaintifff may amend and bring him in as a co-defendant, or the
defendant may obtain his substitution by the proper mode, or the claimant may
himsef intervene by the process of intervenor. 

SEC. 3229. [When bond required.]——When the plaintifff desires the immediate
delivery of the property, he shall execute a bond to t e defendant, with sureties to
approved by the clerk, in a enalty at least equal to tvvice the value of the prop
my Bought, conditioned that e will appear at the next term of the court and
prosecute his suit to judgment and return the property it a return be awarded, and
also pay all costs and damages that may be adjudged against him. The bond shall
be ﬁled with the clerk of the court, and is for t e use of any person injured by
theProceeding, and a judgment for money rendered against the plaintifff shall go
at'alnst the sureties on the bond.

SEC. 3230. [Clerk 190 issue order. -—The clerk shall thereupon issue an order,
under his hand and seal of the court, directed to the sheriff, requiring him to take
the property therein described and deliver the same to the plaintifff. And where
the petition shows that the property has been wrongfully removed into another
county from the one in which the action is commenced, the order may issue from
the county whence the property was so wrongfully taken, and may be servedm
any county where the property may be found, in the same manner and with like
effect as in the county where suit is brought.
SEC. 3231. [Order follow property.]—-When any of the property is removed
to another county after the commencement of the action, counterparts of the
proper order may issue on the demand of the plaintifff to such other county, and
may be executed upon such goods found in such county, and further orders and the
necessary counterparts thereof may issue as often as may be necessary.

SEC. 3232. [EXCOIItiOIl 0ft duty 0f oﬂicer.]—-The sheriﬂ' must forthwither
ecute the order by taking possession'of the property therein mentioned, if it is
found in the possession of the defendant, or of his agent, or of any other person
who obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly or indirectly, after
the order was placed in the sheriff‘s hands, for which purpose be may break open
any dwelling house or other enclosure, having ﬁrst demanded entrance and exhib
ited his authority, if required.
SEC. 3233. [Defendant examined on oath to discover property.]—-Whell
it appears by aﬂidavrt that the property claimed has been disposed of, or concealed
so that the order cannot be executed, the court or judge may com 1 the attend
ance of the defendant, and exsmine him on oath as to the situation 0 the property?
and punish a Willful obstruction or hinderance, or disobedience of the order of the
court in this respect as in case of contempt.

SEC. 3334. [Property delivered to plaintiﬂ‘.] —The sheriﬂ‘ haVlng taken
the property, or any art thereof, shall forthwith deliver the same to the plainlllf
SEC. 3235. [Defen ant may prevent delivery of property to plaintifff]
-—At any tiine before the actual delivery to the plaintifff, the defendant may stay
all proceedings under the aforesaid order and retain the property in his own p05
session, by eXecuting s bond to the plaintifff, with snreties to be approved by the
clerk or sheriff, conditioned that he will appear in and defend the action, and de
liver the property to the plaintifff if he recover judgment therefore in as goodacon
ditioii as it was when the action was commenced, and that he will also pay all costs
and damages that may be adjudged against him for the taking or detention of the
property. ~
SEC. 3236. [Must let plaintiﬂ‘ inspect property: appraiseinent oil]—
But when the property is so retained by the defendant, he shall permit the sheriff
and plaintifff to inspect the same; and if the plaintifff so request, the sheriff shall
cause the property to be examined and appraised by two sworn appraisers, chosen
by the parties to the action, or, in their default, by the sheriﬂ' himself, in the man
ner provided for other cases of appraisement; and he shall return their appraise
ment with the execution.
SEC. 323; [Return of 0rder,]—The sheriﬂ' must return the order on or before
the ﬁrst day of the trial term, and shall state fully what he has done thereunder.
If he has taken any property he shall describe particularly the same. And if he
has takenabond from the defendant, as provided in the preceding section, he shall
ﬁle the same with his return.

SEC. 3238- [Jury to assess value and damages.]—The jury must assess
the value of the property, as also the damages tor taking or detention, whenever
by their verdict there will be a judgment _for the recovery or the return of the
piqperty, and when required so to do by either party, must ﬁnd the value of each article thereof. .
SEC. 3239. [Form of indgment.]-—The judgment shall determine which party
mentitled to the possession of the property, and shall deSignate his right therein,
and it such party have not the possession thereof, shall also determine the value
of the rightof such party, which right shall be absolute as to an adverse party
having no right in such property and shall also award such damages to either
Part)’ 88 he may be entitled to for illegal detention of such property.

SEC. 3240. [Executioiiz form 0f._|—_The execution shall require the sheriff to
deliver the possesswn of the seine, particularly describing it, to the party entitled
thereto, and may, at the same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, dam
ages, or rents and proﬁts, with interest, recovered by the same judgment, out of the
property of the party against whom it was rendered subject to execution, and-the
value of property for which Judgment was recovered to be speciﬁed therein, if a
delivery thereof cannot be had, and shall in that respect be deemed an execution
against property. _ _ y _ _
Sec. 3241. [Blaintiﬁ‘ s option as to what he, Will take.]—-If the arty
found to be entitled to the property be not already in possession thereofhy ellv
ery under the provisions of this chapter, or otherwise, he may, at his option, have
' execution for the speciﬁc delivery of the property, or for the value thereof as deter
mined by the Jury. And if any article 0 the property cannot be obtained on exe
cution, he may take the remainder With the value of the missaing articles.

Sec. 3242. [Judgment on b0nd.]—-When property for which a bond has been
given,as hereinbefore provided, is not forthcoming tO answer the judgment, and
the party entitled thereto elects to take judgment for the value thereof, such
judgment may be entered against the principal and sureties in the bond.
SEC. 3243. [When property has been concealed.]—When it appears by the
return of the ofﬁcer, or by the afﬁdavit of the plaintifff, that any s eciﬁc property
which has been adjudged to belong to one party, has been conceale or removed by
the other, the court or a judge may require him to attend and be examined on oath
respecting such matter, and may enforce its order in this respect as in the case of
contempt.
SEC. 3244..[E'xempti0n.]——A money judgment taken under the provisions of
this chapter in lieu of property exempt from execution, shall also be, the same
extent, exempt from execution, and from all set—off or_diminution either by the
adverse party or by any other person, and such exemption may, at the option of
the party. he stated in the judgment. 

SEC. 3245. HBy ordinary proceedings.]—Actions for the recovery of
real property shal be by ordinary proceedings, and there shall be no joinder and
no counterclaim therein, except of like proceedings andas provided in this chapter. 

Sec. 3246. [Who may maintain: against whom. -—_Any person having a
valid subsisting interest in real property, and a right to t e immediate possession
thereof, may recover the same by action against any person acting as owner, land
lord, or tenant of the property claimed.

SEC. 3247. [Title,]—The plaintifff must recover 0n the strength of his own
1 e.

SEC. 3248. [Joint or tenant in common.]—In an action by atenant in com
mon, or joint tenant of real property against his co-tenant. the plaintifff must show,
in addition to his evidence of right, that the defendant either denied the plziiniili‘s
right, or did some act amounting to such denial.

SEC. 3249. [Service 011 agent, when.]-When the defendant isa non-resident,
having an agent of record for the property in the state. service may be made
upon such agent in the same manner and with the like effect as though made on
the principa .

SEC. 3250. orm 0f petitionJ—le petition may state generally that the
plaintifff is entitled to the possession of the premises. particularly describing them,
also the quantity of his estate and the extent of his interest therein, and that the
defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession, and the damages, if any, which
he claims for withholding the property; but if he claims other damages than the
rents and proﬁts, he shall state the facts constituting the cause thereof.

Sec. 3251. Abstract of title to be attached.]——The plaintifff shall attach
to his petition, and the defendant to his answer, it' he claims title, an abstract of
the title relied on, showing from and through whom such title was obtained, to
gether with a statement showing the page and book where the same appears of
record. If such title, or any portion thereof, is not in writing, or does not appear
of record, such factshall be stated in the abstract, and either party shall furnish
the adverse party With a copy of any unrecorded conveyance, or furnish a satis
factory reason for not so doing within a reasonable time after demand therefore.
N 0 written evidenceof title shall be introduced on the trial, unless it has been suf
ﬁciently referred to in such abstract, which, on motion, may be made more speciﬁc»
and may be amended as other proceedings.
SEC. 3252. [AnswerJ—The answer of the defendant, and of each if more
than one, must set forth what part of the land he claims, and what interest he
clainlis (therein generally, and if as mere tenant, the name and residence of his
and or .

Sec. 3253. [Landlord substituted for defendantJ—Whenever it appears
that the defendant is only _a tenant, the landlord may be substituted by the service
upon him of originahnotice, or by his voluntary appearance, and the judgment
shall be concluswe against him.

SEC. 3254. [PossessionJ—VYhere the defendant makes defense, it is not
necessary to prove him in possessuon of the premises.

SEC. 3255. [Alienationz effect OfJ—An action for the recovery of real prop
erty against a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made
by such person after the commencement of the action.
SEC. 3356. [Power to enter and survey land.l—-The court, on motion and
after notice to the o posite party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing
the party applying t erefor to enter upon the land in controversy and make sur
vey and admeasurement thereof, for the purposes of the action.
SEC. 3257. [SameJ—The order must describe the property, and a copy there
of must be served upon the owner or person having the occupancy and control of
the land.
SEC. 3253- [Verdictz form ofél—The verdict may specify the extent and
quantity of the plaintifff's estate, an the premises to which he is entitled, with
reasonable certainty, by metes and bounds and other sufﬁcient description accord
ing to the facts as proved,
SEC. 3259. [General verdict.]—A general verdict in favor of the plaintiff
without such speciﬁcations, entitles the plaintifff to the quantity of interest or
estate in the premises as set forth and described in the petition.
SEC. 3260. [Judgment for damages only.]—If the interest of the plaintiﬂ'
expire before the time in which he could be put in possession, he can obtain a
judgment for damages only.

SEC. 326l. [Limitation of damages.]—~The plaintifff cannot recover for the
use and occupation of the premises for more than six years prior to the commence
ment of the action.
SEC. 3262. [Improvements set off against damages.]—When the plaintifff
is entitled to damages for withholding, or using,_ or Injlll‘lllg his property, the
defendant may set olf the value of any permanent improvements made thereon to
the esteut of the damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the law for the
nett of occupying claimants.

Sec. 3263. [Wanton aggression.J—-In case of wanton aggression on the
part of the defendant, the jury may award exem lary damages.
SEC. 3264. [Tenant: extent of liability. —A tenant in possession in good
faith, under a lease or license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in arrear
at the time of suit brought for the recovery of land, and that which may after
ward accrue during the continuance of his possession.

SEC. 3265. [Where crop is sowed, planted OI‘ growing: ﬁnding.]—If
the defendant aver that he has a are sowed, planted or growing on the premises,
the jury ﬁnding for the plaintiﬁ', an also ﬁnding that fact, shall further ﬁnd the
value of the premises from the date of the trial until the ﬁrst day of January next
succeeding. and no execution for possession shall be issued until that time, if the
defendant executes, with surety to be approved by the clerk, a bond in double such
sum to the plaintiﬁ', conditioned to pay at said date the sum so assessed. This bond
shall be part of the record, and shall have the force and eﬁ'ect of a judgment, and
if not paid at maturity, the clerk, on the application of plaintifff, shall issue execu
tion thereon against all the obligors.

SEC. 3266. _[\Vl'it 0f POSSCSSion.]—When the plaintifff shows himself entitled
to the immediate possession of the premises, judgment shall be entered and a wrlb
of possession issued accordingly.
See Dunn v. b'tgrkweather, 6 Iowa, 470.
Sec. 3267. LJudgment for rent accruing after judgment and before
POSSCSSi0n.]-The plaintifff may have judgment for the rent of the possession which
accrues after judgment and before delivery of possession, by motion in the court
in which the judgment'was rendered, ten days’ notice thereof in writing being
given, unless judgment is stayed by appeal and bond given to suspend the judg
ment, in which case the motion may be made after the aiﬁrmance thereof.

SEC. 3268. [When granted: grounds 0f.]—In any of the cases providedfor
by this chapter, the court, in its discretion, may grant a new trial on the applica
tion of any party thereto, or those claiming under a party, made at any time
within one year after the former trial, although the grounds required for a new
trial in other cases are 11015 Shown; but only one such new trial shall be granted.

SEC. 3269. [Notice of applicationto adverse party.]—If the application
for new trial is made after the close of the term at which the judgment was rend
ered, the party obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite party ten days“ notice
thereof before the term at which the action stands for trial.
SEC. 3270. [Not to affect rights of other parties.]—The result of such
new trial. if granted after the close of the term at which the ﬁrst trial took place,
shall in no case aﬁ'ect the rights of third persons acquired in good faith for a val~
uable consideration since the former trial. _
Sec. 3271. [Damages.]—But the party who, on such new trial, shows himself
entitled to lands which have thus passed to a purchaser in good faith, may recover
the proper amount of damages against the other party, either in the same or a
subsequent action.
SEC. 3272. [Writ of restitution.]—The party who has been successful in
such new trial, shall, if the case require it, have his writ of restitution to restore
him his property.

SEC. 3273. [Who may bring action.]—An action to determine and quiet the
igle of real prOperty may be brought by any one havrng or claiming an interest
t erein, whether in or out of possessron of the same, against any person claiming title thereto though not in posseseion. 

SEC. 3274. [ Petition: form OKJ—The plaintifff must ﬁle his petition under
oath, setting forth the nature and extent of his estate, and describing the premises
as accurately as may be, and averring that he is credibly informed and believes that
the defendant makes some claims adverse to the estate of the petitioner, and pray
ing for the establishment of the plaintifff ’s estate againts such adverse claims, and
that the defendant be barred and forever estopped from having or claiming any
right or title to the premises adverse to the plaintiﬂ'. The notice in such action
shall accurately describe the property, and in general terms, the nature and extent
' ofvylairitiﬁ's claim, and shall be served as in other cases.

SEC. 3275. [If defendant disclaim title.]—If the defendant shall appear
and disclaim all right and title adverse to the plaintifff, he shall recover his costs.
In all other cases the c0sts shall be in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 3276. [To be prosecuted by equitable proceedings. l—In all other
respects, the action contemplated in the three preceding sections sha 1 be conducted
as other actions by equitable proceedings, with the modiﬁcations prescribed by this chapter so far as the same may be applicable.

SEC. 327_7. [By equitable proceedings.]—The action for partition
shall be by equltable proceedings, and no joinder or counterclaim of any other kind
shall be allowed therein, except as provided by this chapter.

SEC. 3273. [Petition :, form 0f.]—The petition must describe the property and
respective interests of the several owners thereof, if known. If any interests, or
the owners of any interests are unknown, contingent, or doubtful, these facts
must be set forth in the petition with reasonable certainty.
SEC. 3279- [Abstract of title to be attached to pleading.]—The plaintifff
shall attach to his petitition, and the defendant to his answer, if he claims title,
an abstract of the title relied on, showing from and through whom such title was
obtained, to ether with a statement showing the page on which the same appears
of record. f such title, or any portion thereof, is not in writing, or does not
appear of record, such fact shall be stated in the abstract, and either party shall
furnish the adverse party with a copy of any unrecorded conveyance, or furnish a
satisfactory reason for not so doing within a reasonable time aft-er demand there
.for. No written evidence of title shall be introduced on the trial, unless it has
been sufﬁciently referred to in such a bstract, which, on motion, may be made more
speciﬁc, and may be amended as other pleadings.
Sec. 3280. [Contingent interests._|——Persons having contingent interests in
such property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of the
property so situated, or the property itself in case of partition, shall be subject to
the order of the court until the right becomes fully vested. The ascertained share
anydabsent owner shall be retained, or the proceeds invested for his beneﬁt under
e or er.
sEC. 3281. [Lien credit0rs.]—Creditors having a speciﬁc or general lien upon
the entire property may be made parties at the option of the plaintifff or defendant.
See Hammond v. Perry, 38 Iowa, 217.
SEC. 3282. [Answer; statements of. ——The answers of the defendants must
state among other things the amount an nature of their respective interests.
They may deny the interest of any of the plaintifffs, and, by supplemental pleading,
ifnecessary, may deny the interests of any of the other defendants.
SEC. 3283. [Issue; trial.]—Issues may thereupon be joined and tried between
any of the contesting parties, the question of cost on such issues being regulated
between the contestants agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.

Sec. 3284. EReference to ascertain encumbrancesJ—Before making
any order of as e or partition,the court may refer to a clerk, or a referee, to report
the nature and amount of general encumbrances by mortgage, judgment, or other—
“391 if any there be upon an portion of the property.
Sec. 3285. [Proof 011]—- he referees shall give the parties interested at least
ﬁve days’ notice of the time and place when he will receive proof of the amounts
0f such encumbrances.
Sec. 3286. [Issue as 120 encumbrance: hOW tried.]—1f any question arise as
“the validity or amount of an encumbrance, or the payment of the same, the court
may direct an issue to be made up between the encumbrancer and an owner, which
shall be decisive of their respective rights; and upon a sale it may order the money
'to retained or in‘vested t-o’await a ﬁnal action in relation to its disposition, and
notice thereof to be forthwrth given to the encumbrancer unless he has already
been made a party. . .
SEC. 328?. [UndiVided interests: lien 0n.]—If the lien is upon one _or
more undiVided'interests, the holder thereof shall be made a party, and the lien
shall, after partition or sale, remain a charge upon the particular interests of the
proceeds thereof, but the amount of costs is a charge upon those interests, para
mount to all other liens. 

SEC. 3288 [Not to delay d18t_l‘lb_ﬂtl(_)l].]——The proceedings in relation to
encumbrances shall not delay the_ distribution of the proceeds of other shares in
respect to which no such difﬁculties exist.
SEC. 3289- [Judgment of conﬁrmation.]—After all the shares and interests
of the arties have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid, judgment shall
be ren ered conﬁrming those shares and interests, and directing partition to be
made accordingly. 

Sec. 3290. [Referees appointed t0.]—Upon entering such judgment, the
court shall appomt referees to inake partition into the requisite number of shares,
or if it is apparent, or the parties so agree, that the property cannot be equitably
divided into the requis1te number of shares, a sale may be ordered.

SEC. 3291. [bhares marked 01113.17Wheu a petition is deemed proper, the
referees must mark out the shares by yisible monuments, and may employ a com
petent surveyor and the necesssary asSistants to aid them therein.

SEC. 3292. [Report of refereesJ—Ths report of the referees must be in
writing, signed by at least two of them. It must describe the respective shares
with reasonable particularity, and be accompanied by a plat of the premises, and
must allot the shares to their several owners.
Sec. 3293. [Special allotments,]—For good and sufﬁcient reasons appearing
to the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular portions of the land to
particular individuals. In other cases the shares must be made as nearly as possi
ble of equal value. 

Sec. 3294. [Partition of part,]——When partition can be conveniently made
of part of the premises, but not of all, one portion may be partitioned and the
other sold as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 3295. [Report set aside.]—On good cause shown, the report may be set
aside and the matter again referred to the same or other referees.

SEC. 3296. [Judgment_]—Upon the report of the referees being conﬁrmed,
iuilgnient thereon shall be rendered that the partition be ﬁrm and effectual forever.
SEC. 3297_. [Costs,]—~All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall be paid,
in the ﬁrst instance, by the plaintifffs, but eventually by all the parties Ill propor
tiian to their interests, except those costs which are created by contests above pro
“ ed for.

SEC. 3298. [Referees to ivc bond before sellingg—Before proceeding to
sell, the referees shall give a€ond. in a penalty to be ﬁxed y the court, payable to
the parties who are entitled to the proceeds, with sureties to be approved by the
clerk, conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties. At any time there
after the court may require farther and additional security, and upon the failure of
the referees to comply with such order, they may be removed by the court and
others appointed, and the court may at any time, for satisfactory reasons, remove
Such referees and appoint others. _
SEC. 3299. (As amended by ch. 130, 21st 9. a.) Notice: land may be sold at
private sale: appraised.]—The same notice 0 ' sale shall be given as when lands
are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the sales shall be conducted in like man
llér- [Provided that whenever in the discretion of the court such lands can be
disposed of to better advantage and with less expense at private sale than in the
manner hereinbefore provided, the same may be Sold in compliance with such terms
38 are ordered by the court; but in such case the real estate shall be duly appraised
by three disinterested freeholders to be appointed by the court, and sold for not
less than the a praised value]
SEC. 3300. [ﬁeportJ—After completing said sale, the referees must report their
proceedings to the court, with a description of the different parcels of land sold to
ciao];i purc aser and the price bid therefore, which report shall be ﬁled with the
0 er .
SEC. 3301. [Conveyance.]-—If the sale be approved and conﬁrmed by the court,
an order shall be entered directing the referees, or any two of them, to execute
conveyances ursuant to such sale. But no conveyances can be made until all the
money is ai , without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage of the land so
sold, or ot er equivalent security.

SEC. 2302. [Validity 0f.]—Such conveyance so executed, being recorded in the
county where the premises are situate, shall be valid against all subsequent pur
chasers, and also against all persons interested at the time who Were made parties
to the proceedings in the mode pointed out by law.
SEC. 3303. [When parties are married.]—If the owner of any share thus
sold has a husband or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not agree as to
the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such sale, the court must
direct it to be invested in real estate, under the supervision of such personasit
may appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner of the share sold as time
saI .
SEC. 3304- [Sales disapproved.]—If the sales are disapproved, the money
paid and the securities given must ba returned to the persons respectively entitled
thereto.
SEC. 3305. [Security t0 refund money.]—The court, in its discretion. may
require all or any of the parties, before they receive the monies arising from any
sale authorized In the chapter, to give satisfactory security to refund such
monies, with interest, in case it afterward appears that such parties were not enti
tled thereto.
SEC. 3306. [Life estates.]—-If a tenant for life or years be entitled as such to
a part of_the roceeds of sale, and if the parties cannot agree upon the sum 111
gross WlllCl‘l‘t IEy’Wlll consider an equivalent for such estate, the court shall direct
the avails ot the Incumbered property to be invested, and the proceeds to be paid
to the encumbrancer during the lifetime of the encumbrance.

SEC. 1. [Where no defense: attorney fee shall not exceed that
allowed In section _2.]-—Be it enacted by the general assembly of {he slaw 0!
Iowa; That, In all actions for partition of real estate where there is no defense
made, no greater attorney fee shall be allowed by the court to be taxed for and 85
attorney fees In such action for partition, than provided in section two hereo
Sec. 2. [Fee allowed.]——For the ﬁrst two hundred dollars or less in value of
the property to be partitioned ten per cent, for the excess of two hundred dollars
to ﬁve hundred dollars, ﬁve per cent, and for the excess over ﬁve hundred to one
thousand dollars, three per cent, for all excess over one thousand, one per cent.

SEC. 3307. [Of personal property: how f0reclosed.]—Any mortgage
of personal property to secure the payment of money only, and where the time of
payment is therein ﬁxed, may be foreclosed by notice and sale as hereinafter pro
vided, unless a stipulation to the contrary has been agreed upon by the parties, or
may be foreclosed by action in the proper court.
SEC. 3303. [Noticerl—Jl‘he notice must contain a full description of the prop
erty mortgaged, together with the time, place, and terms of sale.
SEC. 3309. [Service, on Whom.]——Such notice must be served on the mortga
gor, and upon all purchasers from him subsequent to the execution of the mort
gage, and all persons having recorded liens upon the same property which are
Junior to the mortgage, or they will not be bound by the proceedings.
SEC. 3310. [Return,]-The service and return 'must be made in the same manner
earn the case of the original notice by which civil actions are commenced, exuept
that no publication in the newspapers is necessary for this purpose, the general
publication directed in the next section being a sufﬁcient service upon all the parties
m cases where service is to be made by publication
SEC. 3311, [Notice of sale_ l—After notice has been served upon the parties, it
must he published in the same manner, and for the same length of time as is
required in cases of sale of like property on execution, and the sale shall be con~
ducted in the same manner.
SEC. 3312. [Title of sale_] ——The purchaser shall take all the title and interest on
which the mortga e operated. _
SEC. 3313. [Bill of sale._]——The sheriﬂ' conducting the sale shall execute to the
purchaser a blll of sale of the personal property, which shall be effectual to carry
the whole title and interest purchased. _
Sec. 3314. [Evidence of service perpetuatedJ-Evldence of the service
and publication of the notice aforesaid, and of the sale made in accordance there
mth, together with any postponement or other material matter, may be perpetu
ated by proper aﬂidavits thereof. _
Sec. 3315. [Same.]——Such afﬁdavits shall be attached to the bill of sale, and
stall then be receivable in evidence to rove the facts they state. '
SEC. 3316_ [Validity of sales,]- ales made 1n accordance With the above
requirements, are valid in the hands of a purchaser in good faith, whatever may
be the equities between the mortgagor and mortgagee.

SEC. 3317. [Contest: hOW .eﬂ'ectedQl—The right of the mortgagee to fore
close, as well as the amount claimed to be due, may be contested by any one inter
erested in so domg, and the proceeding may be transferred to the district or circuit
court, for which purpose an ingunction may issue if necessary.

SEC. 3319. [By equitable proceedings.]—-No deed of trust. or mortgage of
real estate, With or Without power of sale, made since the ﬁrst day of April, A. D.
1861, shall be foreclOsed in any other manner than by action in court by equitable
proceedings.

SEC. 3320. [Separate suits on note and to foreclose.——If separate suits
are brought in the same county on the bond or note, and on the mortgage given
tosecure it, the plaintiﬁ' must elect which to prosecute. The other Will be dis
continued at his cost.
SEC. 3321, [J “(lg-ment; sale and reﬂemptwnJ—When a mortgage or deed
of trust is foreclosed by equitable proceedings, the court shall render judgment for
the entire amount found to be due, and must direct the mortgaged property, or so
much thereof as is necessary, to be sold to satisfy the same, With interests and
costs. _A special execution shall issue accordingly, and the sale thereunder shall
be subject to redemption as in cases of such sale under general execution.

Sec. 3322. [General execution: when.]—If the mortgage property. does
not sell for suﬂicient to satlsfy the execution, a general execution may be 155“
against the mortgagor, unless the parties have stipulated otherwise.

SEC. .3323. [Junior encumbrances entitled to assignment.]_—At any
time prior to the sale, a person having a lien on the property which is ]l1[l\01‘ to the
mortgage. Will be entitled to an assignment of all the interest of the holder of the
mortgage, by paying him the amount secured, With interest and costs, together
with the amount of any other liens of the same holder which are paramount to
his. He may then proceed with the foreclosure or discontinue it at his option.

SEC. 3324. [0verplus.]—It there is an overplus remaining after satisfying
the mortgage and costs, and if there is no other lien upon the property, such
0verplus shall be paid to the m0rtgag0r- 

SEC. 3325. [In case there are other liens.l-—If there are any other liens on
the property sold_ or other payments secured by the same mortgage, they shall be
paidoifm their ("den And if the money secured by any such lien is not yet due,
“nimble rebate of interest, must be made by the holder thereof, or his lien on
811611 property will be postponed to those of a. Junior date, and if there are none
“(511‘ the balance will be paid to the mort agor

SEC. 3326 [How much sold,]--As far as practicable, the property sold must
be only sufﬁcient to satisfy the mortgage fOI‘BCIOSEd

SEC. 332?. [Satisfaction to be ackHOWledgetl.]—Whenever _the amount.
due on any mortgage is paid off, the mortgagee, or those legally acting for him,
must acknowledge satisfaction thereof in the margin of_ the record of the mort
gage, or by execution of an instrument in writing. referring to the mortgage, sud
duly acknowledged and recorded. If he fails to do so Within sixty days after being
re nested, he shall forfeit to the mortgagor the sum of twenty-ﬁve dollars.

SEC. 3328. Same: duty 0f clerk.]—Whenever a judgment of foreclosure
shall be enteret in any court.tlie clerk thereof shall make upon the margin of the
record of the mortgage foreclosed, in the recordcr’s ofﬁce, a minute showing that
said mortgage was foreclosed, in what court foreclosed, and giving the date of the
decree; and when such decree shall be fully paid off and satisﬁed upon the'iudg
ment docket of such court, the clerk of said court shall enter satisfaction in full
upon the margin 0f such mortgage, and he shall be allowed as compensation for
such service the sum of twenty-ﬁve cents, to be taxed as a part of the costs in the
case. _
SEC. 3329. [Bond given by vendors treated as mortgagesJ—In cm
where the vendor of real estate has given a bond or other writing to convey the saint?
on payment of the purchase money, and such money or any part thereof remains
unpaid after the day ﬁxed for payment, whether the time is or is not of the essence
of the contract, such vendor may ﬁle his petition asking the court to require the
purchaser to perform his contract, or to foreclose and sell his interest in the
re erty.

SEC. 3330. [Parties in such easel—The vendee shall in such cases, for the
Purpose of the foreclosure, be treated as a mortgagor of the property purchased,
and his rights may be foreclosed in a similar manner. 

SEC. 3331. [Nuisancez deﬁnition oil—Whatever is injurouis to health,
or indecentpr offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property,
so as essentially to interfere With the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is
a nuisance, an a ClVll action by ordinary proceedings may be brought thereon by
any person injured thereby: in which action the nuisance. may be enjoined or abated,
and damages also recovered therefore.

Sec. 3332. [Waste by guardian or tenants: damages.]—If a guardian,
tenant for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common, of real property com
mit waste thereon, he is liable to ay three times the damages which have resulted
from such waste, to the person who is entitled to sue therefore.
SEC. 3333. [Forfeiture and eviction.]——Judgment of forfeiture and eviction
may be rendered against the defendant, whenever the amount of damages so recov
ered is more than two-thirds the value of the interest such defendant has in the
property wasted, and when the action is brought by the person entitled to the
reversion.
SEC. 3334. [Who deemed to have committed.]——An y person whose duty it is
to prevent waste, and who has not used reasonable oare and diligence to prevent
it, is deemed to have committed it.
SEC. 3335. [Treble damages: who liable for.]—For willful trespass in
injuring any timber, tree or shrub on the land of another; or in the street or high
way in front of another‘s cultivated ground, yard or town lot, or on the public
grounds of any town, or any land held by this state for any purpose whatever, the
perpetrator shall pay treble damages of [at] the suit of any person entitled to pro
tect or enjoy the property aforesaid.
SEC. 3336'. [Actual value: when assessed on highway.]—Nothing herein
contained authorizes the recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated woodland, for the repair Of a public highway or bridge upon
the land in its immediate neighborhood.
SEC. 3337. [Remainder and reversion.]—The owner of an estate in re
mainder or reversion, may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for injuries
done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervening estate for life or years.
sEC. 3338. Heir.]—An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may maintain
these actions 'or injuries done in the time of his ancestor as well as in his own
time, unless barred by the statute of limitations.
SEC. 3339. [Purchaser under executionJ—Whenever lands or tenements
are-sold by virtue of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain hi
action against any person for either of the causes above mentioned, occurring or
emtmg after his purchase.
Sec. 3340. [Suitable repairs.]—This provision is not intended to prevent the
person who occupies the lands in the meantime, from using them in the ordinary
course of husbandry, or from using timber for the purpose of making suitable
repairs thereon.
Sec. 3341. [Same.]—-But if for this purpose be employs timber vastly superior
to that required for the occasion, he will be deemed to have committed waste and
Will be liable accordingly.
Sec. 3342. [Settlers 0!! public lands.]—Any person settled upon and occu
Pl’lllg any portion of the public lands held by the state, is not liable as a. trespasser
for unproving it or cultivating it in the ordinary course of husbandry, nor for tak
mg and using timber or other materials necessary and proper to enable him to do so,
provided the timber and other materials be taken from land propely constituting a
part of the “claim” or tract of land so settled upon and occupied by him.
SEC. 3343. [Certiﬁcate for land sold for taxes.]—The owner of a treas
urer's certiﬁcate of urchase of land sold for taxes, may recover treble damages of
any person commit mg waste or trespass thereon as hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 3344. [Disposition of money.]—All monies recovered in an action
brought under the preceding section shall be paid by the officer collecting the
same, to the auditor of the county in which such lands are situated, and the same
shall be held by such auditor, and an entry thereof made by him in a book kept
for that purpose, until such lands are redeemed or a treasurer’s deed therefore shall
have been executed to the holder of said certiﬁcate. If redemption be made, the
money shall be paid to the owner of the land, and if not redeemed, to the person
to whom such deed is executed.
SEC. 3345. [Where state is plaintifff: for what causes brought]
——A civil action by ordinary proceedings may be brought in the name of the state
as plaintifff in the follovnng cases:
1. Against any person unlawfully holding or exercising any public ofﬁce or
franchise within this state, or any ofﬁce in any corporation created by this state;
2. Or against any public oﬁicer who has done or suﬁ'ered any act which works a
forfeiture of_ his ofﬁce; _ . l
3. Or against any person acting as a corporation within this state without being
authorized by law; _ _
4. Or against any corporation doing or omitting acts, which amount to a for
feiture of their rights and privﬂegs as a corporation, or exercising powers not con
ferred by law; _ _
5. Or against any person claiming under any letters patent, granted by the
proper authorities of this state, for the purpose of anuulling or vacating the sanie,
as having been obtained by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a material
fact, or when the defendants have done or omitted an act in violation of the term
or conditions on wh1ch_the letters were granted, or have by any other means for
feited the interest acquired under the same.

Sec. 3346. [J0illd61‘i counterclaim.]—To such action there shall be no
joinder of any other cause of action, nor any counterclaim.
SEC. 3347. [When and by whom commenced.l—Such action may be com
menced by the district attorney, at his discretion, and must be so commenced when
directed by the governor, thegeneral assembly, or a court of record.
SEC. 3348. [By private person.]—If the district attorney, on demand, neglect
or refuse to commence the same, any citizen of the state having an interest in the
question. may apply to the court in which the action is to be commenced, or to the
judge thereof, for leave to do so, and, upon obtaining such leave, may prosecute the
action to ﬁnal judgment in other respects as provided.
Sec. 3349. ll’etition: statements of.]—The petition shall contain a plain
statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, and, with
the notice, and all the subsequent pleadings and proceedings, shall conform to the
rule given for procedure in civil actions in title seventeen of this code, except so
far as the same are modified by this chapter.
SEC. 3350. [Private individual: costs.]—When such action is brought upon
the relation of a private individual, that fact shall be stated in the petition, and
the order allowing him to prosecute may require that he shall be responsible for
costs in case they are not adjudged against the defendant. In other cases the
payment of costs shall be regulated bv the same rule as in criminal actions.
Sec. 3351. [When defendant holds an oﬂice.]-When th_e_defendant is hold
ing an office to which another is claiming the right, the petition shall set forth
the meme of such claimant, and the trial must, if practicable, determine the rights
of the contesting parties.
SEC. 3352. lSame.]——When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
ofﬁce or franchise, a petition may be ﬁled against all or any portion thereof, in
order to try their respective rights thereto, in the manner provided by this chapter.

Sec. 3353. [Effect oﬁ]——If judgment be rendered in favor of such claimant, he
shall proceed to exercise the functions of the ofﬁce after he has qualiﬁed as
required by law.
Sec. 3354. [Books and paperS.]—The court, after such judgment, shall order
the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his custody or under his con
trol belonging to said ot‘ﬁce.
SEC. 3355. [Execution for damages.]——Wlien the _ judgment has been ren
dered 1n favor of the claimant, he may at any time Within one year thereafter
bung suit against the defendant and recover the damages he has sustained by rea~
son of the act of the defendant.
Sec. 3356. [Judgment of ouster from_corp0ration.]—-If the defendant be
{0qu guilty of unlawfully holding or exerclsmg any ofﬁce, franchise, or privilege,
01’ if a corporation be found to have violated the law by which it holds its existence,
or in any manner to have done acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of
“'5 Privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such. defendant be ousted and alto
gether excluded from such oﬁce, franchise, or privilege, and also that he pay the
costs of the proceeding.

SEC. 3357. If the defendant be found to have exercised merely certain individual
powers and privileges to which he was notentitled, the judgment shall be the same
as above directed, but only in relation to those particulars in which he is thus
exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights and privileges.
SEC. 3358- [Pretended corporation: GOStS.]—In case judgment is rendered
against a pretended but not real corporation, the cost may be collected from any
person who has been acting as an ofﬁcer or proprietor of such pretended corpora
tron.
SEC. 3359. [Action against ofﬁcers.]——When judgment of ouster is rendered
against a corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors or oﬂicers
thereof, such ofﬁcers shall be jointly and severally liable to an action by any one
injured thereby.

SEC. 3360. [When corporation is dissolved.]—I£ a corporation is ousted and
dissolved by the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall appoint three disin
terested persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.
SEC. 3361. Bond. l—Said trustees shall enter into a bond in such a penalty and
with such security as the court approves, conditioned for the faithful discharge
of their trust.
SEC. 3362. [Action 0n.]——Suit may be brought on such bond by any person
injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in the dischargeof their
duties.
SEC. 3363. [Duty of trustees. I—The trustees shall proceed immediately to
collect the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to divide the sur
plus among those thereto entitled.
SEC. 3364. [Books delivered t0.]-—The court shall, upon application for that
purpose, order any ofﬁcer of such corporation or any other person having posses
sion of any of the effects, books, or papers of the corporation,in any wise necessary,
for the settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the same to the trustees.
SEC. 3365. [Inventor-v.1—As soon as practicable after their appointment, the
trustees shall make and ﬁle in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court, an inventory of
all the effects, rights, and credits which come to their possession or knowledge, the
truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.
SEC. 3366. [Power oﬁj—They shall sue for and recover the debts and property
of the corporation, and shall be responsible to the creditors and stockholders
res ectively, to the extent of the effects which come into their hands.
SEC. 3367. [Penalty for refusing to obey order of 00111‘t.]——Any person
who, without good reason, refuses to obey any order of the court, as herein pro
vided, shall be deemed guilty of contempt of court, and shall be ﬁned in any sum
not exceeding ﬁve thousand dollars and imprisoned in the county jail until he com
ply with said order, and shall be further liable for the damages resulting to 8117
person on account of his refusal to obey such order.

SEC. 3368. [Oﬁicial bonds construed,]—The oﬂicial bond of a public
olhcer is to be construed as a security to the body politic or civil corporation of
which he is an officer, and also to all the members thereof, severally, who are
intended to be thereby secured. 

SEC. 3369. [J udgmeut no bar,]—A judgment in favor of a party for one
delinquency, does not preclude the same or another party from an action on the
same security for another delinquency, except that sureties can be made liable in'
the aggregate only to the extent of their undertaking. 

SEC. 3370. [Fines and forfeitures_]——F1nes and forfeitures not otherwrse dis
posed of, go into the treasury of the county where the same are collected for the
beneﬁt of the school fund. 

Sec. 3371. [Who rosecuted by.]——Actions for the recovery thereof may be
prosecuted by the 0 cers or rsons to whom they are by law given in whole or
in psirt, or by the public 0 cer into whose bands they are to be paid when col
ect. .
SEC. 3372. [CollusiouJ—A judgment for a penalty or forfeiture rendered by
collusion, does not prevent another prosecution for the same subject matter.

SEC. 3373- [Definition Oil—The action of mandamus is one brought in a
court of competent Jurisdiction, to obtain an order of such court commanding an
inferior tribunal, board, corporation, or person to do or not to do an act. the per
formance or omissiion of which the law enjoins as a. duty resulting from an oﬂice,
trust. or station. Where discretion is left to the inferior tribunal or person, the
mandamus can onl compel it to act, but cannot control such discretion.

SEC. 3374. [Issued by whom,]—The order may be issued by the district or
circuit court, to any inferior tribunal, or to any corporation, oﬂicer, or person; and
by the supreme court, to any district or circuit court, if necessary, and also in any
other case where it is found necessary for that court to exercise its legitimate
power.

SEC. 3375. Extent of remedy by,]—The plaintifff in any action, except those
brought for the recovery of speciﬁc real or personal property, may also as an
aiinliary relief have an order of mandamus to compel the performance of a duty
established in such action. But if such duty, the performance of which is sought
to be compelled, is not one resulting from an ofﬁce, trust, or station, it must be one
for the breach of which a legal right to damages is already complete at the com
mencement of the action, and must also be a duty of which a court of equity would
enforce the performance. 

SEC. 3376_ [When not to issued—An order of mandamus shell not be issued
m any (me where there is a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of the law, except as herelll PI'OVIded- 

SEC. 3377. [Who entitled to beneﬁt of.]—The order of mandamus is granted
on the petition of any private party aggrieved, without the concurrence of the
prosecutor for the state, or on the petition of the state by the district attorney,
when the public interest is concerned, and is in the name of such private party or
of the state, as the case may be in fact brought.

SEC. 3378. [Petitionz form 0f.]-—The plaintiﬂ' in such action shall state his
claim, and shall also state facts sufﬁcient to constitute a cause for such claim, and
shall also set forth that the plaintifff, if a. private individual, is personally interested
therein, and that he sustains and may sustain damage by the non-performance of
such duty, and that performance thereof has been demanded by him, and refused or
neglected, and shall pray an order of mandamus commanding the defendant to ful
ﬁll such duty.

SEC. 3379.. LOther pleadings.]-The pleadings and other proceedings in any
action in which a. mandamus is churned, shall he the same in all respects as nearly
as may be, and costs shall be recoverable by either party as in an ordinary action for
the recovery of damages. 

SEC. 3350- [IDJIIBCUOH may issue, when: J01ndel‘.]-—When the {16121011 is
brought by 3 anate Personi It may be .‘lOIHEd With a cause of action for such
an injunction as may be obtained by ordinary roceedings, or with the causes of
action speciﬁed in section three thousand three hundred and seventy-ﬁve, but no
other joinder, and no counterclaim shall be allowed.

Sec. 3381. [Peremptoryz] -—When the plaintifff recovers judgment, the court
may include therein a peremptory order of mandamus, directed to the defendant,
commanding liiin forthwith to perform the duty to be enforced, together with a
money judgment for damages and costs, upon which an ordinary execution may
issue.
SEC. 3382. [Same: no return but compliance allowed.]—The order shall
simply command the performance of the duty, shall be directed to the party and
not the sheriti', and may he issued in term or vacation, and returnable forthwith,
and no return except that of compliance shall be allowed; but time to return it
may, upon sufﬁcient grounds, be allowed by the court or judge, either with or
without terms.
SEC. 3383. [Acts performed by another at defendant‘s costs.]—The
courtmay, upon application of the plaintifff, besides, or instead of proceeding against
the defendant by attachment, direct that the not required to be done, may be done,
by the plaintifff or some other person appointed by the court at the expense of the
defendant, and upon the act being done, the amount of such expense may be ascer
tained by the court, or by a reference appointed by the court, as the court or judge
may order, and the court may render judgment for the amount of such expenses
and costs, and enforce payment thereof by execution.
SEC. 3384. [Temporary 01-ders_]—During the pendency of _the action, the
court, or judge in vacation, may make temporary orders for preventing damage or
Injury to the plaintifff until the case is decided. ' _
SEC. 3385. [Security,_}-When the state is a party, it may appeal without
security.

SEC. 3386. [When and for what causesobtained-l—An inilmctien may
obtained as an independent remedy 1n the actwn, by eflu‘table. Pmceedmgs' in
all cases “(here such relief would have been granted "1 eqmty P'eY‘Qus t° the adop‘
tion of this code; and in all cases of breach of contract or other injury, where the
Party inJured is entitled to maintain, and has brought .an attton by ordinary pm
ceedmgs‘ he may‘ in the sametcause, pray and have a writ of injunction against the
repetition or continuance of such breach of contract .or Othirdnjury‘ or the com
mittal of any breach of contract or injury of allke kind, arl-‘lmg out 0? the Same
contract, or relating to the same property or right, and he may also, in the same
action, include a claim~ for damages or other redress

Sec. 3389, [By whom granted_]—-A temporary injunction may be granted:
b 1- Evy the court or judge thereof in which the action is pending or is to be
run t;
2- y any judge of the district or circuit court of such district;
. By any judge of the supreme or a judge of any other district or circuit court.
_ But in cases where an action is pending, and it is applied for to affect the sub
]ect matter of such action, it can only be granted by the court or judge thereof, in
which such action is pending. Nor shall it be granted by any judge mentioned in
the second subidivison hereof, unless it satisfactorily appears by afﬁdavit that the
court or judge thereof in which the action is brought, cannot, for want of time
sickness, or other disability, hear the same, or that the residence of the judge isincon
venient, or that itis for some sufﬁcient reason impracticable'to make the application
tolutn. Nor shall it be granted by any judge mentioned in the third subdivison hereof,
unless it be made satisfactorily to appear to such judge, by afﬁdavit, that the appli.
cation therefore cannot, for some sufﬁcient reason, he made to either of the courts
ﬁrjudges mentioned in the ﬁrst or second subdivision of this section.

Sec. 3390. [Notice: when rcqnired.j—An injunction shall not be granted
against a defendant who has answered, unless he has had notice of the application.
SEC. 3391. [Same.J—An injunction to stop the general and ordinary business of
a corporation, or the operations of a railway, or of a municipal corporation, or the
erection of any building or other work, or the board of supervisors of any county,
or to restrain a nuisance, can only be granted upon reasonable notice of the time
and place of the application to the party to be enjomed.

Sec. 3392. N0 injunction shall be granted by a judge, after the applian
tion therefore has been overruled by the court; nor y a court or judge when it ‘
has been refused by by the court or judge thereof in which the action is brought.
A judge refusing an injunction, shall, if requested by either party, give him a
certiﬁcate thereof. . ,
SEC. 3393. _[MOthIl t0 diSSOlve.]——The defendant may move to dissolve the
injunction. Either before or after the ﬁling of the answer. 

SEC. 3394. [Issued by clerkJ—If the order is made by the court theclerk
shall make an entry thereof in the court record and issue the order _accordmle
If made in notation, the judge must indorse said order upon the petition. 

Sec. 3395. [B0nd.]—In the cases contemplated in the preceding sections, the ,
order of allowance must direct the injunction to issue only after the ﬁling of a
bond in the ethos of the clerk of the proper court, in. a penalty to be therein ﬁxed,
with sureties to be approved by such clerk, and conditioned for the payment at all
damages which may be adjudged against petitioner by reason of such Injunction.

Sec. 3396. [Condition of bond when to restrain judgment]—When pro
ceedings in a civil action, or on a judgment or hnal order, are sought to be en
jouied, suit must be brought in the county and court in which such action is
pending, or the judgment or order was obtained. The bond _must also iii that
case he further conditioned to pay such judgment, or comply With such ﬁnal order
if the injunction is not made perpetual, 'or to pay any judgment that may be ulti
mately recovered against the party obtaining the injunction on the cause of action
en'oined.

SEC. 3397. [Penalty,]——The (penaltyof the bond must be ﬁxed by the court or
judge who makes the order, an must be doubly sutﬁcient to cover any probable
amount of liability to be thereby incurred. _
SEC. 3398. [Defendant to show cause.]—The court or judge before granting
the writ, may, if deemed advisable, allow the defendant an opportunity to show
cause why such order should not be granted.

Sec. 3399. [Application for: to whom made-j—lt' the order is granted
Without allowing the defendant to show cause, he may, at any time before the
next term of the court, apply to the judge Who made the order to vacate or modify
thesame or the application may be made to the judge of the court in which the
action is pending.

SEC. 334%. [Notice of application._]—Such application must be With notice to
the plaintifff, and may rest upon the ground that the order was improperly granted,
or it may be founded on the answer of_ defendants and afﬁdavits. In the latter
case the plaintiﬁ' may fortify his application by counter alﬁdavits, and have reason
able time therefore.
SEC. 3401. [D15801ut10n.]—-The judge may thereupon decide the matter at
once, unless some good cause for delay ‘18 shown. But the vacation of the order
shall not prevent the cause froin proceeding if anything be left to proceed .llp011.
SEC. §&02. [Only one m0t10n._I——Only one motion to dissolve or modify an
injunction upon the whole case Sllilll be allowed.

Sec. 3403. [Disobedience of: how punished.]—Any judge of the supreme,
district, or circuit court, being furnished with an authenticated copy of the injunc
tion, and also with satisfactory proof that such injunction has been violated, shall
issue his precept to the sheriff of the county where the violation of the injunction
occurred, or to anyother sheriff, naming him, more convenient to all parties coii
cerued, directing him to attach said defendant, and bring him forthwith beforetlie
same or some other judge, at a place to be stated in said precept.

SEC. 4404. [Contempt pupgedJ—If, when thus produced, he ﬁles his al‘ﬁdawt
denying or sufﬁciently excusuig the contempt charged, he shall be released, and
the afﬁdavit shall be filed with the clerk of the court for preservation. _
SEC. 3405. [Bond requiredJ—But if he fails to do so, the judge ll’lﬂ' require
him to give bond. Wlth surety. for his appearance at the next term of the court,
and 115% for his future obedience to the injunction, which bond shall be ﬁled with
the c er . _
SEC. 3406. [Committed t0 jail.]—-If he fails to give such security, he may be
committed to the jail 0f the county where the proceedings are pending until the
next term of the court.
SEC. 3407. [Contempt unishedJ—lf the security be given, the court at the
next term shall act upon t e case and punish the contempt in the usual mode.

SEC. 3408. [Agreed statement of facts.]—Parties to a question in differ
ence which might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, present an
agreed statement of the facts thereof to any court having jurisdiction of the sub—
ject matter.
SEC. 3409. [1C0ntr0versy real.]—It must be shown by afﬁdavit that the con
troversy is rea , and that the proceeding is in good faith to determine the rights of
the parties thereto. 

Sec. 3410. [Judglnent.]—-The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment thereon as if an action were pending.
SEC. 3411- [Record.]—The statement, the submission and the judgment, shall
constitute the record.
SEC. 3412. [How entbrced.]-—The judgment shall be with costs, and it may be
enforced, and shall be subject to review, in the same manner as if it had been
rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided for in the submission.
SEC. 3413. [Pending cause,]—'1‘he same may be also done at any time before
trial in any action then pending, subject to the same requirements and attended by
the same results as in a case without action, and such submission of a stated case
shall be an abandonment by both parties of all pleadings ﬁled in such cause, and
the cause shall stand on the agreed case alone, which must provide also for any
hen had by any attachment, and for any property in the custody of the law, else
such lien and such legal custody shall be held waived. 

SEC. 3414. [Agreement when facts are found: Judgment accordingly]
The parties may, if they think ﬁt, enter into an agreement in writing, that upon
the judgment of the court being given in the aﬂirmative or negative of the ques
tions of law raised by such special case, particular property therein described, or a
sum of money ﬁxed by the parties, or to be ascertained by the court, or in such
Ilianuer as the court may direct, shall be delivered to and vested in one of the par
ties by the other, or in case of money, shall be paid by one of such parties to the
other of them, either with or without costs of the action, and the judgment of the
court may be entered for the transfer and delivery of such property, or for such
Sum as shall be so agreed or ascertained, with or Without costs, as the case may be.
SEC. 3415. [Costs.]—ln case no agreement shall be entered into as to the costs
“flinch action, the same shall follow the event, and be recovered by the successful
P Y

SEC. 3416. [What may be.]—All controversies which might be the sub
ject of crvrl action. may be submitted to the decrsron of one or more arbitrators,
as hereafter provrded.

Sec. 3417. [HOW d0ne.]—-_-The parties themselves, or those persons who might
lawfully have controlled a crvrl action in their behalf for the same subject matter.
must sign and acknowledge a written agreement, specifying particularly Wlltlt
demands are to be submitted, the names of the arbitrators and court by which the
judgment on their award is to be rendered. 

SEC. 3418. [What SllblhittGdJ—The submission may be of some particular
matters or demands, or of all demands which the one party has against the other,
or of all mutual demands on both sides.
Sec. 3419. [Of action pending.]—A submission to arbitration of the sub
ject matter of a suit, may also be made by an order of court, upon agreement of
parties after suit is commenced.

SEC. 3420. [ Rules.]—All rules prescribed by law in cases of referees, are appli
cable to arbitrators except as herein otherwise expressed, or except as otherwise
agreed upon by the parties.

SEC. 3421. [Revocation ,j—Neither party shall have the power to revoke the
submission without the consent of the other.
SEC. 3422. [Neglect to appear.]——lf either party neglect to appear before
the arbitrators after due notice, except in case of sickness, they may, nevertheless,
Eggceedtgo hear and determine the cause upon the evidence which is produced
ore em.
Sec. 3423. [Award.]—I£ the time within which the award is to be made is
ﬁxed in the submission, no award made after that time shall have any legal eifect,
unless (rinade upon a recommitment of the matter by the court to which it is
reports .
SEC. 3424. [Samara—If the time of ﬁling the award is not ﬁxed in the sub
mission, it must be ﬁ ed within one year from the time such submission is signed
and acknowled ed, unless by mutual consent the time is prolonged.
SEC. 3425. [ ame.]—The award must be in writing, and shall be delivered by
one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the agreement, or it may be
enclosed and sealed by them and transmitted to the court, and not opened until
the court so orders.

SEC. 3426. [Hearing in court.]—-The cause shall be entered on the docket of
the court at the term to which the award is returned, and shall be called up and
acted upon in its order. But the court may require actual notice to be givento
either party, when it appears necessary and proper, before proceeding to act on
the award.
SEC. 3427. [Rejectionz re-hearing.]—The award may be rejected by the
court for any legal and suﬁcient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a rehear
ing to the same arbitrators, or any others agreed upon by the arties.

SEC. 3428. [Force and effect of award.]—When the award has been adopted.
it shall be ﬁled and entered on the records, and shall have the same force an
'1 '
effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may be entered and execution issued
accordingly- 
SEC. 3429.. [AppeaU—When an appeal is brought on such judgment, 009195
of the SllbIIllSSlOll and award, together with all afﬁdavits, shall be returned to the
Supreme court. _ '
SEC. 3430. [COStS.]—-—If there is no provrsion in the submission respecting 008“
the arbitrators may award them in their discretion.

Sec. 3431. [Rights SitVEdJ—Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
affect in any manner the control of the court over the parties, the arbitrators, or
their award; nor to impair or affect any action upon an award, or upon any bond or
other engagement to abide an award.

SEC. 1. [District judge have power to establish arbitration tribu
nals.]-Be it enacted by the general assembly of the state of Iowa: That the dis
trict court of each county, or a judge thereof in vacation, shall have the power,
and upon the presentation of a petition, or of the agreement hereinafter named, it
shall be the duty of said court, or a judge thereof in vacation, to issue in the form
hereinafter named, a license or authority for the establishment within and for
each county of tribunals for voluntary arbitration and settlement of disputes
hesween employers and employed in the manufacturing, mechanical, or mining
ll] ustries.
SEC. 2. [Petition or agreement: signed by twenty _persons.]—The said
petition or agreement shall be substantially in the form hereinafter given, and the
petition shall be signed by at least twenty persons employed _as workmen, and by
four or more separate ﬁrms, individuals, or corporations Within the county, or by
atleast four employers, each of whom shall employ at least ﬁve workmen, or by
the representative of a ﬁrm, corporation or individual employing not less than
twenty men in their trade or industry; provided, that at the time the petition is
Presented, the judge before whom said petition is presented, may, upon motion
require testimony to be taken as to the representative character of said petitioners,
and if it appears that said petitioners do not represent the will of a majority, or at
hastens-half of each party to the dispute, the license for the establishment of
Bud tribunal may be denied, or may make such other order in this behalf as to
tum shall seem fair to both sides. _ _ _
SEC. 3. [License to issue; when,]—-If the said petition shall be signed by the
requisite number of both employers and workmen, and be in proper form and con
tain the names of the persons to compose the tribunal, being an equal number of
employers and workmen, the judge shall forthwrth cause to be issued a license sub
stantially in the form hereinafter given, authorizing the existence of such tribunal
and ﬁxing the time and place of the ﬁrst meeting thereof, and an entry of the
license so granted shall be made upon the journal of the district court of the
county in which the petition originated. _ i . H
SEC. 4- [To continue one yearzjurisdiction.]—Sgud triounal shall continue
In enstence for one year from date of the license creating it, and may take juris
diction of any dispute between employers and workmen in any mechanical, manu
facturing, or mining industr , on business who shall have petitioned for the tribu
nal, or have been represente in the petition therefore, or who may submit their
disputes in writing to such tribunal for decisions. Vacancies occurring in the
membership of the tribunal shall be ﬁlled by the judge or court that licensed said
tribunal, from three names, presented by the members of the tribunal remaining
in that class, in which the vacancies occur. The removal of any member to an
adjoining county, shall not cause a vacancy in either the tribunal or post of
umpire. Disputes occurring in one county may be referred to a tribunal already
existing in an adjoming county. The place of umpire in any of said tribu
nals and vacancies occurring in such place, shall only be ﬁlled by the mutual choice
of the whole of the representatives, of both employers and workmen constituting
the tribunal, immediately upon the organization of the same, and the umpire shall
be called upon to act after disagreement is manifested in the tribunal by failure
during three meetings held and full discussion had. His award shall be ﬁnal and
conclusive upon such matters only as are submitted to him in writing and signed
by the whole of the members of the tribunal, or by arties submitting the same.
Sec. 5. [Number of members of tribunal.]— he said tribunal shall consist
of not less than two employers or their representatives, and two workmen or their
representatives. The exact number which shall in each case constitute the tribu
nal, shall be inserted in the petition or agreement, and they shall be named in the
license issued. The said tribunal, when convened shall be organized by the selec
tion of one of _their members as chairman and one as secretary, who shall be
chosen by a majority of the members, or if such majority cannot be had after two
votes, then by secret ballot, or by lot, as they prefer.
SEC. 6. [Compensation: expenses.]——'l‘lie members of the tribunal shall
receive no compensation for their services from the cit or county but the expenses
of the tribunal, other than fuel, light and the use of t 0 room and furniture, may
be paid by voluntary subscription, which the tribunal is authorized to receive and
expend for such purpOses. The session of said tribunal shall be held at the county
seat of the county where the petition for the same was presented, and a room iii
the court house or elsewhere for the use of said tribunal shall be provided by the
county board of_ supernsors. .
SEC. 7. [_Chairinan to administer oaths in absence of umpire. ——When
no umpire is acting, the chairman of the tribunal shall have power to minister
oaths to all Witnesses who may be produced, and a majority of said tribunal may
provide for the examination and investigation of books, documents and accounts
pertaining to the matters in_hearing before the tribunal, and belonging to either
party to the dispute; provided, that the tribunal may unanimously direct
that instead of producing books, papers and accounts before the tribunal.
an accountant agreed upon by the entire tribunal may be appointed to exam
ine such booksnpapers and accounts, and such accountant shall be sworn to weli
and truly 61111111118 Such bOOkS, documents and accounts, as may be presented to
him, and to report the results of such examination in writtiug to said tribunal.
Before such_ examination, tho information desired and required by the tribunal
shall be plainly stated in writing, and presented to said accountant, which state
ment shall be signed by the members of said tribunal, or by a majority of each
class thereof: Attorney at law or other agents of either party to the dispute. Shall
not be permitted to appear or take part in any of the proceedings of the tribunal,
or befOre the umpire. _ _
Sec. 8. _[ Umpire t0 preSide while acting.j~—Wheu the umpire is acting he
shall pres1de and he shall have all_the power of the chairman of the tribunal. and
his determination “P011 all questions of evidence, or other questions in conduct
ing the inquiries there pending, shall be ﬁnal. Committees of the tribunal con
sisting of an equal number of each class may be constituted to examine into
any question in dispute between employers and workmen which may have been
referred to said committee by the tribunal, and such committee may hear, and
settle the same ﬁnally, when it can be done by a unanimous vote; otherwise the
same shall be reported to the full tribunal, and be there heard as if the question
had not been referred. The said tribunal in connection with the said umpire shall
have power to make or ordain and enforce rules for the government of the body
when in session to enable the business to be proceeded with, in order, and to fix
its sessions and adjournments, but such rules shall not conﬂict with this statute,
nor with an of the provisions of the constitution, and laws of Iowa. _
SEC. 9. [ uestion to be plainly deﬁned in writing.]—Before the umpire
shall proceed to act, the question or questions in dispute shall be plainly deﬁned in
writing and signed by the-members of the tribunal, or a majority thereof of each
class, or by the parties submitting the same, and such writing shall contain the
submission of the decision thereof to the umpire by name, and shall provide that
bisdeeision thereon, after hearing, shall be ﬁnal. The umpire shall be sworn to
impartially decide all questions that may be submitted to him during his term of
ofﬁce. The submission and his award ma be made in the form hereinafter given,
and said umpire must make his award within ten days from the time the question
or questions in dispute are submitted to him. Said award shall be made to the
tribunal; and if the award is for a speciﬁc sum of money, said award may be made
a matter of record by ﬁling a cop thereof in the district court of the county
wherein the tribunal is in session. hen so entered of record it shall be ﬁnal and
conclusive, and the proper court may, on motion of any one interested, enter judg
ment thereon; and when the award is for a speciﬁc sum of money may issue ﬁnal and
other process to enforce the same. _ _ _
Sec. 10. [Form of petition.]—The form of the joint petition or agreement pray
inﬁ‘for a tribunal under this act shall be as follows:
othe district court of . . . . county, (or to a judge thereof, as the case may be):
The subscribers hereto being the number, and having the qualiﬁcations required in
this proceeding, being desirous of establishing a tribunal of voluntary arbitration
for the settlement of dis utes in the (here name the branch of industry) trade, and
having agreed upon A, 5, C, D and E, representingtheemployers, and G, H, I,
_ and K, representing the workmen, as members of said tribunal, who each are qual~
ﬁled to act thereon, pray that a license for a tribunal in the . trade may be
Issued to said persons named above.

Sec. 11. [Form Of license.]——The license to be issued upon such petition may
be as follows:
STATE on Iowa,
. . . . . . . . County,
WHEREAS, The joint petition and agreement of four employers (or representatives
of a ﬁrm or corporation or individual employing twenty men, as the case may be) and
twenty workmen have been presented to this court (or if to a judge in vacation so
state) praying the creation of a tribunal of voluntary arbitration for the settlement
of disputes in the workman trade within this county, and naming A, B, C, D and E,
representing the employers, and G, H, I, J and K, representing the workmen. Now,
in pursuance of the statute for such case made and provided, said named persons are
hereby licensed and authorized to be and exist as a tribunal of voluntary arbitration
for the settlement of disputes between employers and workmen f0r the period
of one year from this date, and they shall meet and organize on the day
of ...., A.D....
in;
Clerk of the .. '0': County.
SEC. 12. When it becomes necessary to submit a matter in controversy to the
umpire it may be in form as follows:
FORM OF SUBMISSION
We, A, B, C, D, and E, representing employers, and G, H, I, J, and K represent
in workmen composing a tribunal of voluntary arbitration hereby submit. and
refer unto the umpirage of L (the umpire of the tribunal of the . . . . . . . - .
trade) the following subject matter viz.: (Here state full, and clear the matter sub
mitted), and we hereby agree that his decision and determination upon the same
shall be binding upon us, and ﬁnal, and conclusive upon the uestion thus'sub
mitted, and we pledge ourselves to abide by, and carry out the decision of the
ire when made.
itness our names this........day of.... . . . . . ........................ .
um
A. D. . . . . . . . . .
(Signatures

SEC. 13' [Award to be, in WPitiIlg-1—The umpire shall make his award in
writing to the tribunal, stating distinctly his decisions on the subject matter sub
mitted, and when the award is for a speciﬁc sum of money, the umpire shall for
ward a. copy of the same to the clerk of the proper court,

SEC. 3432. [Boats: when and for what liable.]-—In an action brought
against the owners of any boat to recover any debt contracted by such owner, or
by the master, agent, clerk, or consignee thereof, for siipplies‘furnished, or for labor
done, in, about, or on such boat, or for materials furnished in building, repairing,
ﬁtting out, furnishing or equipping the same, _or to recover for the non-perform
ance of any contract relative to the transportation of'persons or property thereon,
made by any of the persons afore-mentioned, or to recover for injuries to persons or
property by such boat, or the ofﬁcers or the crew thereof, done in connection with
the business of such boat, a warrant may issue for the seizure of such boat, as herein
after provided. 

SEC. 3433. [Petition and warrant.]—T_he original petition must be in writ—
Eng, sworn to and ﬁled with the clerk or justice of the peace, who shall thereupon
issue a warrant to the proper ofﬁcer, commanding him to seize the boat, its apparel,
ttlclkle, furniture and appendages, and detain the same until released by due course
0 aw. '
SEC. 3434: [Warrant issued on Sunday,]—And the warrant may be issued
011 Sunday, if the plaintiﬁ', his agent or attorney, shall state in his petition and
Wear thereto, that it would be unsafe to delay proceedings till Monday.
SEC. _3435. Service of notice_]—-It shall be sufﬁcient serVice of the original
notice in such an action, to serve it on the defendant, or on the master, agent,
Clerk or consignee of such boat; and if none of them can be found, the notice may
be served by posting up a copy thereof on some conspicuous part of the boat. The
warrant shall be served according to the direction it contains.
SeC. 3436. [By whom served_]—Any constable 0r marshal of any corporate
town may serve and execute the warrant provided for in said section, whether the
same issue from the oﬂice of the clerk of the district or circuit court. or of a
justice. 7 ‘
SEC. 3437. [Who may appear for boat.]—Any person interested in the host
may appear for the defendant by himself, his agent or attorney, and conduct the
defense of the suit, and no continuance shall be granted to the plaintifff while the
boat is held in custody.
SEC. 3438. [Discharge by giving bond. l—The boat may be discharged at
any time before ﬁnal judgment, by the giving of a bond with sureties, to beappwved
by the officej‘ servin‘y the warrant, or by the clerk or justice who issued it, inapeualty
double the plaintifffs demand. conditioned that the obligors therein will pay the
amount which may be found due to the plaintifff, together with the costs.

SEC. 3439. [Special execution.]—lf judgment be rendered for the plaintifff
before the boat is thus discharged, a special execution shall issue against it. If it
have been previously discharged, the execution shall isme against the principal
and sureties on the bond without further proceedings.

SEC. 3440. 'What ﬁrst to be sold. —The oﬂicer may sell any of the furni
ture or appen ages of the boat, if by so oing he can satisfy the demand. lf he
sell the boat itself. he must sell it to the bidder who will advance the amount re
quired to satisfy the execution, for the IOWest fractional share of the boat. unless
the person appearing for the boat desire a different and equally convenient mode
of as e.
sEC. 3441. [Fractional share sold.” wIf a fractional share of the boatbe
thus sold. the purchaser shall hold such 5 are or interest jointly with the other
0Wners.
SEC. 3442. [Appeal.]—_If an appeal be taken by the defendant before the boat
is discharged as above pronded, the appeal bond, if one be ﬁled. will have the same
eﬁ'ect in dischargingthe boat as the bond above contemplated, and execution shall
issue against the obligors therein after judgment in the same manner.
SEC. 3443. [Saving clause.]-Nothing herein contained is intended to sheet
the rights of the plaintifff to sue in the same manner as though the provisions of
this chapter had not been enacted.
SEC. 3444. _[Petltlon:_ allegation of.]—In actions commenced in accordance
with the provrsions of this chapter it is suﬂicient to allege the contract to have
been made with the boat Itself.

SEC. 3445. ERafts: liability 0f.]—Any raft found in the waters of this state
shall be liable 'or all debts contracted by the owner. agent, clerk, or pilot thereof,
on account of work done or services rendered for such raft.

SEC. 3446- [Licn.]——Clainis growing out of either of the above cases shall be
liens upon the raft, its tackle. and appendages, for the term of twenty days from
the time the right of action therefore accrued
SEC. 3447. [Action against PﬁftJ—The action may be brought directly
against the raft, and the same rules shall govern, and the same process shatl be
lbigd in such action, as are in this chapter prescribed for actions against owners of
ats.
SEC. 3448. gAppearance: what deemed.]——Tbe execution by or for the
oat or raft, of a bond, whereby possession of the same is obtained
erretniued by him, shall be an appearance of such owuer as a defendant to the
action.
SEC. 3449. [Petition sworn to: statements oil—The petition for the writ
ofhabeas corpus must be sworn to, and must state:
1. That the person in whose behalf it is sought is restrained of his liberty, and
the person by whom, and the place where he is so restrained, mentioning the
names of the parties, if known, and if unknown, describing them with as much
particularity as practicable; .
2. The cause or pretense of such restraint, according to the best information of
the applicant; and if it be by virtue of any legal process, a copy thereof must be
annexed, or a satisfactory reason given for its absence;
3. It must state that the restraint is illegal, and wherein;
4. That the legality of the imprisonment has not already been ad'udged upon
apliior proceeding of the same character to the best knowledge and elief of the
app want;
5. It must also state whether application for the writ has been before made to,
and refused by any court or jud e, and if such application has been made, a copy
of the petition in that case, wit the reasons for the refusal thereto appended,
must he produced, or satisfactory reasons given for the failure to do so.

SEC. 3450. [Sainc ~—The (petition must be sworn to by the person conﬁned, or
by some one in his be alf, an presented to some court or ofﬁcer authorized to allow
the writ.
SEC. 3451. [Writz by whom allowedJ—The writ of habeas corpus may be
allowed by the supreme, district, or circuit court, or by any judge of either of those
courts, and may be served in any part of the state.
Prior to the code of 1873. an appeal to the supreme court did not lie from an order or decision
of one of the Judges of thait court, in a. habms corpus proceeding. _In re Carley, 34 Iowa, 154.
SEC. 3452. [Application: to whom illade.]——_Application for the Wl'lilllllsi
be made to the court or judge niost convenient in pomt of distance to the applicant,
and the more remote court or judge, if applied to for the writ, may'rcfusc the some
unless a suﬁcient rcason be stated in the petition for not making the application
to the more convenientcourt, or a Judge thereof.

SEC. 3453. [May refuse writ.]——lf, from the showing of the petitioner. the
plaintifff would not be entitled to any relief, the court or judge may refuse to allow
the writ. 

SEC. 3454. [Reasons for indorsedlonJ—lf the writ is disallowed, the court
or judge shall cause the reasons of said disallowance to be appended to the petition
and returned to the person applying for the writ.

SEC. 3455. 01‘!!! 0f WI‘it.]-—But if the petition show a sufﬁcient ground
for relief, and is in accordancc with the foregoing requirements, the writ shall be
allowed, and may be substantially as follows:
THE STATE or Iows,
To the sheriﬁ' of, &c._, (or to A . . . . . . . B. . . . . . . ., as the case may be).
You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. . .. . . . .D. . . . - . - -by You
unlawfully detained, as is alleged, before the court (or before me, or before
F ...... ..,judge, &c., as the case may be) at . . . . . . . ., on . . . . . . . .,) or immediately
after being served with this writ], to be dealt with according to law, and have you
then and there this writ, with a return thereon of your doings in the premises.
SEC. 3456. [By (30111132 issued by clerk.]——When the writ is allowed by a
court it is to be issued by the clerk, but when allowed by a judge he must issue the
writ himself, subscribing his name thereto without any seal.
SEC. 3457. [Penalty f0!‘ refusing.]—Any judge, whether acting individually
or as a member of the court, who wron fully and Willfully refuses such allowance
of the writ when properly applied for, grail forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum
of one thousand dollars.
Sm 3453- lJudge to issue on his own motion.]—W benever any court or
judge authorized to grant this writ, has evidence, from a judicial proceeding before
them, that any person within the jurisdiction of such court or ofﬁcer is illegally
imprisoned 0r restrained of his liberty, such court or judge shall issue or cause to
beissucd, the writ as aforesaid, though no application be made therefore.
Sec. 3459. [District attorney n0tiﬁed.]—The court or ofﬁcer allowing the
writ, must cause the district attorney of the proper county to be informed of the
issuing of the writ, and of the time and place, where and when it is made returnable.

SEC. 3460. [By whom._]—The writ may be served by the sheriff, or by any other
person appointed for that purpose, in writing, by the court or judge by whom it
is issued or allowed. If served by any other than the sherlﬁ‘, he possesses the same
power, and is liable to the same penalty for a non-performance of his duty, as
though he were the sheriﬂ'.
SEC. 3461. [H0w_]-The proper mode of service is by leaving the original writ
will the defendant, and preserving a copy thereof on which to make the return of
service.
SEC. 3462, [When defendant not f0und.]-—If the defendant cannot be found
or if he have not the plaintifff in custody, the service may be made upon any
person having the plaintiff in his custody, in the same manner and with the same
eliect as though he had been made defendant therein.

SEC. 34.63. [Power- 0f oﬂioer when defendant is c0noealed.]—If the
defendant conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the person attempting to serve
the writ, or if he attempt wrongfully to carry the plaintifff out- of the county or
the state, after the service of the writ as aforesaid, the sheriff or the person who is
aitcmpting to serve or who has served the writ above contemplated, is authorized
to arrest the defendant, and bring him, together wrth the plaintifff, forthwith
before the ofﬁcer or court before whom the writ is made returnable.
SEC. 164. [ArrestJ—h order to make such arrest, the sheriﬁor other person
hung the writ, possesses the same power as is given to a sheriff for the arrest of
aperson charged with felony. .
SEC. 3465. [Same_]——If the plaintifff can be found, and if no one appear to have
the charge or custody of him, the person havmg the writ may take him into cus
tody, and make return accordingly. And to get posession of the plaintifff’s person
in such a case, he possesses the same power as is given by the last section for the
arrest of the defendant.
SEC. 3466. [Want 0f form.]—The writ of habeas corpus must not be disobeyedv
for any defects of form or niisdescription of the plaintifff or defendant, provided
enough is stated to show the meaning and intent of the writ.
SEC. 3467. [Penalty for eluding writ.J——If the defendant attempt to elude
the service of the writ of habeas corpus, or to avoid the effect thereof by transfer
ring the plaintifff to another, or by concealing him, he shall, on conviction,be
imprisoned in the penitentiary or county jail not more than one year, and ﬁned
not exceeding one thousand dollars. And any person knowingly aiding 0r abet
ting in any such act, shall be subject to the like punishment.
SEC. 3468. [Refusal to give copy of process.]—- An ofﬁcer refusing to
deliver a copy of any legal process by which he detains the plaintifff in custody,
to any person who demands such copy, and tenders the fees therefore, shall forfeit
two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

SEC. 3469. [When t0 issue. The court or judge to whom the application
for the writ is made, if satisﬁe that the plaintiﬂ' would suffer any irreparable
injury before he could be relieved by the proceedings as above authorized, may
issue a precept to the sheriff, or any other person selected instead, commanding
him to bring the plaintifff forthwith before such court or ‘udge.
SEC. 3470. [EvidenceJ-When the evidence aforesaid is farther suﬂicient to
justify the arrest of the defendant for a criminal offense committed in connection
with the illegal detention of the plaintiﬁ‘, the precept must also contain an order
for the arrest of the defendant.
SEC. 3471. [HOW served.]—The oﬂicer or person to whom the precept is
directed, must execute the same by bringing the defendant, and also the plaintifff
if required, before the court or judge issuing it, and thereupon the defendant
must make return to the writ of habeas corpus in the same mannerasif the
ordinary course had been pursued.
SEC. 3472. [Examinationél—The defendant may also be examined and com
mitted, or bailed, or discharge , according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 3473. EPresumption.]-—-Any person served with the writ is to besumed to be t e person to whom it is directed, although it may be directed to 1111
by a wrong name or description or to another person. I
SEC. 3474. [Appearance.]~Service being made in any of the modes herein
before provided, the defendant must appear at the proper time and answer the
said petition, but no verificatipn shall be required to the answer.
SEC. 3475. [Body Of plalntlﬂU—He must also bring up the body of the
plaintifff, or show good cause for not doing so.
The respondent to a writ of habcas corpus must produce the bodies of the ersons deprived 05
their liberty before the'court, 0r judge, or show in his return to the writ that lie does not have the
power to do so in obedience to the writ. Rivers v. Milchell, 57 Iowa. 193.
SEC. 3476. [Penalty for willful failure.]—-A willful failure to comply
with the above requisitions, renders the defendant liable to be attached for chI'
tem t, and to be imprisoned until a compliance is obtained, and also subjects ﬁlm
to t e forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party thereby aggrieved.

SEC. 3477. [Attachment how served.j—Such attachment may beserved
by the sheriti', or anv other person thereto ant iorized by the judge, who shall also
beeiiipowered to bring up the body of the plaintifff forthwith, and has. for this
purpose. the same powers as are above conferred in similar cases.
SEC. 3478- lAnsyver.]-—'I‘he defendant in his answer must state plainly and
unequivocally whether he then has, or at any time has had, the plaintifff under his
control and restraint. and if so, the cause thereof.
SEC. 3479. [Same.]-If he has transferred him to another person, he must
state that fact, and to whom, and the time thereof, as well as the. reason or
authority therefore.
SEC. 3480. [Same.l—If he holds him by virtue of a legal process or written
authority. a copy thereof must be annexed.
Sec. 3481. [Demur 0!‘ reply.]——The plaintiﬂ‘ rnay demur or reply to the
defendant’s answer, but no veriﬁcation shall be required to the reply, and all
issues jomed therein shall be tried by the judge or court. _ _
SEC. 3482. [Replicatiom statement 0f_.]—-Such replication may deny the
suthciency of the testimony to justify the action of the committing magistrate, on
the trial of which issue all written testimony before such_magistrate may be given
in eVidence before the court or judge in connection With any other testimony
“'lllCll may then be produced. 

SEC. 3483. [Grand iury.]—But it is not permissible to question the correctness
of the action of the grand jury in ﬁnding a bill of indictment, 01' 0f the trial jury
in trial of acause, nor of a court or judge when acting within their legitimate
province and in a lawful manner.
SEC. 3484. [Dischargeg—If no sufﬁcient legal cause of detention is shown the
plaintifff must be discharge .

SEC. 3485. [Ii-regularity 0f commitmentJ—Atthough the commitment of
the plaintiﬂ' may have been irregular, still, if the court or judge is satisﬁed from
the evidence before them, that he ought to be held to hail, or committed, either for
the otfense charged or any other, the order may be made accordingly.
SEC. 3486. [Bail increased or diminished.]—The plaintifff may also, in any
case,be committed, let to bail, or his bail be mitigated or increased, as justice may
require.
Sec. 3487. [Defendant retained in custody.]—Until the suﬁiciency of the
cause of restraint is determined, the defendant may retain the plaintiﬂ in his cus—
tody, and may use all necessary and proper means for that purpose.
SEC. 3433 [Right to be resent waivedJ—The plaintifff, in writing, or his
attorney, may waive his rig it to be present at the trial, in which case the pro
ceedings may be had in his absence. The writ will in such cases be modiﬁed
accordingly.
SEC. 3489. [Penalty for disobeying any order.]—Disobedience to any order
of discharge subjects the defendant to attachment for contempt, and also to the
forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party aggrieved, besides all damages sus
tained by him in consequence of such disobedience.
SEC. 3490. [Papers ﬁled with clerk.]—When the proceedings are beforea
judge, except when the writ is refused, all the papers in the case, including his
ﬁnal order, shall be ﬁled with the clerk of the district court of the county wherein
the ﬁnal proceedin s were had, and a brief memorandum thereof shall be entered
by the clerk upon is judgment docket.

SEC. 3491. [What are.]-—The following acts or Omissions are deemed to be
contempts, and are punishable as such by any of the courts of this state, or by
any 'udicial oﬂicer acting in the discharge of an ofﬁcial duty, as hereinafter pro
vid :
1. Contemptupus or insolent beehavior towards such court while enga ed in the
discharge of a Judicial duty which may tend to impair the respect ac to its
authority;
2. Any willful disturbance calculated to interrupt the due course of its oﬁicial
proceedings; _
3. Illegal resistance to any order _or process made or issued by it;
4. Disobedience to any subpoena issued by it and duly served, or refusing to be
sworn. Or to answer as a Witness; l
5. Unlawfully detaining a Witness or party to an action or proceeding pehdlng
before such_court, while going to or remaining at the place where the action or
proceeding is thus pending; _ ~
6. Any other act or omiss10n specially declared a contempt by law.

SEC. 3492. [In courts of record.]—In addition to the above, any court of
record may punish the following acts or omissions as contempts:
1. Failure to testify before a. grand jury, when lawfully required to do so;
2. Assuming to be an oﬁicer, attorney or counselor of the court, and acting as
such without authority;
3. Misbehavior as a juror, by improperly conversing with a party, or with any
other person in relation to the merits of an action in which he is acting or is to
act as ii juror, or receiving a communication from any person in respect to it with
out immediately disclosing the same to the court;
4. Disobedience by an” inferior tribunal, magistrate or ofﬁcer, to any lawful
judgment, order or process of a superior court, or proceeding in any matter con
trary to law, after it has been removed from such tribunal, magistrate or ofﬁcer.
SEC. 3493. [How punished.]-The punishment for contempts may be by ﬁne
or imprisonment, or both, but where not otherwise specially provided, courts of
record are limited to a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars, and an imprisonment not exceeding
one day and all other courts are limited to a ﬁne of ten. dollars.
SEC. 3494. [Same.]-—But if the contempt consrsts in nu omission to perform
an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be imprisoned
until he performs it. In that case the act to be performed must be speciﬁed in
the warrant of the commitment.
SEC. 3495. [When aﬂidav'it necessary.]—Unless the contempt is committed
in the immediate view and presence of the court, or comes ofﬁcially to its knowl
edge, un aﬂidavit showing the nature of the transaction is necessary as a basis for
further action in the premises.

SEC. 3496. [ (nice to Show causal—Before punishing for contempt, unless
the odender is already in the presence of the court, he must be served personally
with arule to show cause against the punishment, and a reasonable time given
him therefore; or he may be brought before the court forthwith, or on a given day,
y warrant, it necessary. In either case he may, at- his option, make a written
explanation of his conduct under oath, which must be ﬁled and preserved.

Sec. 3497. Testimony reduced to writing. -—Where the action of the
court is foun ed upon evidence given by others, our; evidence must be in writing,
and be ﬁled and preserved, and if the court not upon their own knowled e in the
premises, a statement of the facts upon which the order is founde must be
entered pin the records of the court, or be ﬁled and preserved when the court keeps
110 “3001' .

SEC. 3498. [\Varrant: statement 0f.]—When the offenderis committed, the~
warrant must state the particular facts and circumstances on which the court acted
in the premises, and whether the same was in the knowledge of the court, or was
provided by witnesses.
Sec. 3499. [Certiorari.]—No appeal lies from an order to punish for a con
tempt, but the proceedings may, in proper cases, be taken to a higher court for
revision by certiorari.

SEC. 3300. [N0 bar to indictment.]—The punishment for a contempt con
etitutes no bar to an indictment; but if the offender is indicted and convicted for
the same oﬁense, the court in passing sentence must take into consideration the
punishment before inﬂicted.
Sec. 3501. [ “Court” deﬁned.]—Any ofﬁcer authorized to punish for con
tempt, is a court within the meaning of this chapter.

SEC. 3502. [Courts may,]—The district or circuit court has power to
change the names of persons in the following manner.

Sec. 3503. [PetitionJ—TM applicant for such change must ﬁle his petition
veriﬁed by his oath, stating that he is a resident of the county, and has for one
year then last past, been an actual resident of the state. It must also give a descrip
tion of his person, stating his age, height, the color of his hair and eyes, the place
of his birth. and who were his parents.
SEC. 3504. I'OrderJ—An Order of the court shall thereupon be made and
entered of record, giving a description of the applicant as set forth in the petition
the new name given, the time at which the change shall take effect, which shall
not be less than thirty days thereafter, and directing in what newspaper of gen
eral circulation in the county, notice of such change shall be published.
SEC. 3505. [Publicati0m1—Previous to the time thus prescribed for the taking
effect of such change, the applicant shall cause notice thereof to be published for
f0ur successive Weeks in the newspaper directed by the court.
Sec. 3506. [Proof ﬁled.]—'l‘he ordinary proof of such ‘publication being ﬁled
in the oilice of the clerk of the court, shall be by him ﬁle for preservation, and
on the day ﬁxed by the court as aforesaid the change shall be complete.

SECTION 3507. [Jurisdictiom lOGltlJ—The jurisdiction of justices of the
eace, when not specially restricted, is co-extensive with their respective counties;
but does not embrace suits for the recovery of money vainst actual residents of
any other county, except as provided in section three t ousand ﬁve hundred and
thirteen of this chapter.

SEC. 3508. [AS t0 amount.]—-Within the prescribed limit, _it extends to all
civil cases, except cases by equitable proceedings, where the amount in controversy
does not exceed one hundred dollars; and, by consent of parties, it may be extended
to any amount not exceeding three hundred dollars. 

SEC. 3509. [Where parties resideJ—S‘uits may in all. cases be brought in
thedtownship where the plaintifff or defendant, or one of several defendants,
[831 ES.

SEC. 3510. [Where seryedJ—They may also be brought in any other town
ship of the same county, if actual service on one or more of the defendants is
made in such township.
Sec. 3011. [To recover personal property: attachmentj—Actions to
recover personal property, and suits commenced by attachment, may be com
menced 141 any county and township wherein any portion of the property is
found. and justices shall have jurisdiction therein within the county.

SEC. 3512 [Non-reSident.]—If none of the defendants reside in the state, suit
may be commenced in any county and township wherein either of the defendants
may be found. .
SEC. 3513. [Contracts In writing.]—On written contracts, stipulating for
payment at a particular place, suit may be brought in the township where the
payment was agreed to be made.
In an action upon a promissory note by its terms made ayuble in a. particular township named
therein, a justice of the peace of such townshi has jurisgiction of the maker who resides and )5
served with notice in another county. Klinge 12. Palmer, 42 Iowa, 166.
SEC. 3514. [In adjoming townshipj—If there is no justice in_the_p_1'0}>€r
township qualiﬁed or able to try the suit, it may be commenced in any adjoming
township in the same county.

SEC. 3515. _[Docket and contents.]--Every justice of the peace shall keep B
docket in which shall be entered, in continuous order, with the proper date to em
act done:
1. The title to each cause;
2. A brief statementof the nature and amount of the plaintifff’s demand. and
defendant’s counterclaim, if any, giving date to each where dates exist;
3. The issuing of the process, and the return thereof;
4. The appearance of the respective parties;
5. Every “adjournment, stating at whose instance and for what time;
6. The trial, and whether by the justice or by a jury;
7. The verdict and judgment;
. The execution, to whom delivered, the renewals, if any, and the amount of
debt, damages and costs indorsed thereon; '
9. The taking and allowance of an appeal, if any;
10. The giving a transcript for ﬁling in the clerk's ofﬁce, or for counterclaim,
if one is given;
11. A note of all motions made, and whether refused or granted.

SEC. 3516. [Practical—The parties to the action may be the some as in the
circuit court, and all the proceedings prescribed for that court, so far as the same
areapphcable and not herein changed, shall be pursued in justices” courts. The
powers of the court are only as herein enumerated.

SEC. 3517, [Same,]~—Actions in justices’ courts are commenced by voluntary
appearance or by notice. - - SEC. 3018. lPetition not necessary.]—When by notice, no petition need be
lmwxcwt where the petition must be sworn to, but the notice must state the
cause of aption in general terms, sufﬁcient to apprise the defendant of the nature
Of the claim against him. 

SEC. 3519. [Notice t0 Wh0m.]—It must be addressed to the defendant by name,
but if his name is unknown, 8. description of him will be sufﬁcient. It must be
subscribed by the plaintifff, or the 'ustice before whom it is returnable.
SEC. 3520. {State amount.]— t must state the amount for which the plaint
iﬂ‘ Will take Judgment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer at the time and
place therein ﬁxed.

SEC. 3521. [Limit 0f time.]—The time thus ﬁxed in the notice must not be
more than ﬁfteen days from the date, and the notice must be served not less than
ﬁve days previous to the trial.

SEC. 3522. [Sei'Vice and return.]—The service and return thereto must be
made in the same manner as in the circuit court, except that no serVice shall be
made by publication other‘than is herein prov1ded, nor shall any return made by
another than the sheriff or a constable of the county be valid unless sworn to. 

SEC. 3523. [Defendant may pay OlﬁGeI‘.]-—The defendant may at any 1511119
415' to the ofﬁcer having the process, or to the justice of the peace, the amount 0
the claim, toﬁether With the costs which have been accrued, and thereupon the Pro'
ceedings shal cease.

SEC. 3524. [Agent’s anthority.]-—An agent appearing for another may be
required by the justice to show his authority, if written, or prove it by his own oath
or otherwise, if verbal.

SEC. 3525. [One hour given.]—The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour
inwhich to appear after the time ﬁxed for appearance, and neither party is bound ‘
to wait longer for the other.

Sec. 3526. [PostponementJ—Upon the return day, if the justice be actually
engaged in other ofﬁcial business, he may postpone proceedings in the case until such
business is ﬁnished.
SEC. 3527. [AdjournmentJ—If from any cause the justice is unable to attend
to the trial at the time ﬁxed, or if a jury he demanded, he may adjourn the cause
for a period not exceeding three days, nor shall he make more than two such
adjournments.
SEC. 3523- [SameJ—In case of the absence of witnesses, either party at his
own cost may obtain an adjournment, not exceeding sixty days, by ﬁling an
afﬁdavit like that required to obtain a continuance in the circuit court for the like
cause.
SEC. 3529. [Condition Oil—Either party applying for an adjournment must,
If required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of the
adverse party who is in attendance be then taken to be used on the trial of the
cause.
SEC. 3530. [Pleadings.]—-The pleadings must be substantially the same as in
the circuit court. They may be written or oral. If oral, they must in substance
he Written down by the justice in his docket, and sworn to when such veriﬁcation
is necessary.

SEC. 3531. A counterclaim must be made, if at all, at the time the answer is
ut in.

SEC. 3532. The original, or a copy of all written instruments up?“
which a cause of when or counterclaim is founded, must be ﬁled with the claim
founded thereon, or n Sufﬁcient reason given for not doing so.

SEC. 3533. [Change of place 01' trlal.]——Either party, before the trial 18
commenced, may have the place of trial changed, upon ﬁling an afﬁdavit that the
justice is prejudiced against him, or is a near relation to the other party, ONE 8
material Witness for the aiﬁant, or that the aﬂiant cannot obtain justice before
him; but no more than one change shall he allowed to each party, unless the 1115'
tice to whom the case shall be transmitted is related to either party by consan
guinity or afﬁnity Within the fourth degree, or is a. witness, or has been an attor
ney employed in the action, 1n either of which events, a second change may be
allowed to the same party.

SEC. 3534. [0856 sent to another- justice.]—When said change is allowed.
said justice shall transmit all the original papers in said case, and a transcript 0
his proceedings to the n_ext_ nearest justice in the township, if there be any, if not.
to the neirt nearest justice in his county, and said justice shall proceed to try Sﬂld
case, and if he cannot try the same immediately, he shall then ﬁx a time therefore,
of which all parties shall take notice.

SEC. 3585. [When title to real property is plead_ed.j—If the title to real
property be put in issue by the pleadings, supported by affidavit, or shall manifestly
appear from the proof on the trial of the issue, the JUS_thB.Sh8.l_l, Without further
proceedings, certify the cause and papers, With transcript of his docket, showmg
the reason of such transfer to the circuit court, where the same shall 'be tried on
the merits. N0 cause so transferred shall be dismissed because the justice erred m
transferring the same.

SEC. 3536. [Same.]—-But when a case is thus transferred, or dismissed on ac
count of the title to land being involved,.if there are other causes of action not
necessarily connected, they may be severed and the latter tried before the justice.

SEC. 3537. [By justice. ]—Unless one of the parties demand a trial by jury
at or before the time for joining issue, the trial shall he by the justice.
Sac. 3538. [Dismissal 0f action.J-—lt the plaintifff fails to appear by him
self. his agent or attorney, on the return day. or at any other time ﬁxed for the trial,
the justice shall dismiss the case and render judgment against him for costs, except
in the case pr0virled in the next section. _ _
Sec. 3539. [Not when founded on writing.]~When the suit is founded on an
instrument of writing, purporting to have been executed by the defendant, in which
the demand of the plaintiff is liquidated, if the signature of the defendant is not
denied under oath, and if the instrument has been filed with the justice previous to
the day for appearance he may proceed with the cause whether the plaintifff appear
or not.
Sec. 3540. [Defau]t,]—-In the case provided for in the last section, if the
defendant does not appear, judgment shall be rendered against him for the amount
of the plaintifff’s claim.
SEC. 3541. [Same.]—-But if, where the plaintifff’s claim is not founded on such
written instrument, the defendant does not appear, the justice shall proceed to hear
the allegations and proofs of the plaintifff, and shall render judgment thereon for
the amount to which he shows himself entitled, not exceeding the amount stated
in the notice.

SEC. 3542. [Counter-claimJ—h the cases contemplated in the last two sec
lmllsi if the defendant has previously ﬁled a counterclaim. founded on a written
Instrumeth purporting to have been signed by the plaintifff, calling for a certain
sum, the justice shall allow such counterclaim in the same manner as though the
defendant had appeared, and shall render judgment accordingly.

SEC. 3543. [Judgment set aSlde.]—Judgment dismissing the cause, or by
default, may be set aside by the justlce at any time within Six days after bemg
rendered, if the party applying therefore can show a satisfactory excuse.

SEC. 3544. [New trial.j—In such case a new day shall be ﬁxed for trial, and
notice thereof \given to the other party or his agent.
SEC. 3545. [LOSts.]——Such orders shall be made in relation to the additional
costs thereby created as the justice shall think equitable.
U n setting aside a judgment by default, the justice will make such order as to the (min 98
sbal be equitable. Sticcrs 1;. Thompson, 15 lows, 1.
SEC. 3546. [Execution recalled.]—Any execution which may in the mean
time have been issed, shall be recalled in the same manner as in cases of appeal
SEC. 3547. [Jury summoned.]—If a jury trial he demanded, the justice shall
issue his precept to some constable of the township, directing him to summon the
requisite number of jurors possessing the same qualiﬁcations as are required in the
circuit court. _
SEC. 3548. Number 0fJI1P01'S.]—The jury shall consist of six jurors, unlﬁSS
asmaller num er be agreed upon between the parties. Each party is entitled to three
eremptory challenges and no more. Any deﬁciency in their number, arising
rom zany cause, may be supplied by summoning others in the manner above
directe . _ _
SEC. 3549. [Discharge of JIII'V.]——The justice may discharge the jury. When
satisﬁed they cannot agree, and shall immediately issue a new precept for sunl
moniug another, to _appear at_ a time therein ﬁxed, not more than three days dis
taut, unless the parties otherWise agree.

SEC. 3550. [Motion in ﬂI‘I'eSll.]~—N_o motion in arrest of judgment, or to set aside
averdict, can be entertained by a. justice of the eace.

SEC. 3552. PudginentJ—In cases of dismissal, confession, or on the verdict of
ajury, the ju gment shall be rendered and. entered upon the docket forthwith.
In all other cases, the same shall be done Within three days after the cause is sub
mitted to the justice for ﬁnal action. 
Sec. 3553. [In excess of jurisdiction.]—lf the sum found for either party
exceed thejurisdiction of the justice, such party may remit the excess and take
Judgment for the residue, but he can never afterward sue for the amount so
remitted
SEC. 3554. [Same.]-—lnstead of so remitting the excess,.the party obtaining such
verdict may elect to have judgment dismissmg the action in which case the plaint
llf shall pay the costs. '
SEC. 3555. [Mutual judgmental—Mutual judgments between the same
PEUES, rendered by the same or diﬂ‘erent Justices, may be set oft against each
0 er
SEC. 3556. When rendered by the same court, the same course shall be pursued
as 18 prescribed in the circuit court.

SEC. 3557. By diﬂ‘erent justices.j—-If the judgment proposed to be set off
was rendered y another justice the party offering it must obtain a transcript
thereof, with a certiﬁcate of the justice who rendered it endorsed thereon, stating
that no appeal has been taken, and that the transcript was obtained for the pur
pose of being used as a counterclaim in that case.
SEC. 3558. [Tim6.]—Such transcript shall not be given until the time for tak
ing an appeal has elapsed.
SEC. 3559. [Docket entry.]—The justice s0 giving a transcript shall make an
entry of the fact in his docket, and all other proceedings in his court shall thence
forth he stayed.
SEC. 3560. [Execution fOI‘ balance.]—Such transcript being presented to the‘
justice who has rendered a judgment between the same parties as aforesaid, if
execution has not been issued on the judgment rendered by him, he shall strike a
balance between the jud ments and issue execution for such balance.
SEC. 3561. [Same.]—— f execution has already issued, the justice shall also issue
execution on the transcript ﬁled with him, and deliver it to the same ofﬁcer who
has the other execution.
SEC. 3562. [Duty of olﬁcer.]——Such ofﬁcer shall treat the lesser execution as
so much cash collected on the larger, and proceed to collect the balance accord
ingly.
SEC. 3563. [Costs.]—The above rules as to counterclaim are subject to the same
prohibition as to settin of costs, when the effect will be to leave an insufﬁcient
amount of money actua ly collected to satisfy the costs of both judgments, as is con
tained in the rules of proceedings in the circuit court.
SEC. 3564. [Transcript ﬁledJ—When the judgment of another justice is
thus allowed to be set off, the transcript thereof shall be ﬁled among the papers
of the case in which it is to be so used, and the proper entry made in the justice's
docket.
SEC. 3565. [Refusal to allow counterclaim.]-—If the justice refuses the
judgment as a setfoﬂ', he shall so certify on the transcript, and return it to the
party who offered 1t. hen ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the justice who gave it, proceed
ings may be had by him in the same manner as though no transcript had been
certiﬁed by him.
SEC. 3566. [Judgment by confession.]——A judgment by confession without
action may be entered by a justice of the peace for an amount within his jurisdic
tion, and the prowsions of_ law regulating judgments by confessions in courts 'Of
record, shall, as far as applicable, apply to confessions of judgment beforea justice
of the peace, and the justice shall enter such judgments on his docket, and may
issue execution thereon as in other cases.

SEC. 3567. [May be (10118 When.]—The party obtaining a judgment in agﬂs'
tice’s court for more than ten dollars. may cause a transcript thereof to be cerhﬁ
to the oiﬁce of the clerk of the circuit court in the county.

SEC. 3568. [Manner and effect-]——The clerk shall forthwith ﬁle such trans
cript, and enter a memorandum thereof in 1118' judgment docket, noting the time
of ﬁling the same, and from the time of such ﬁling it shall be treated in all respects,
asto its eﬂ'ect and mode of enforcement, as a judgment rendered in the circuit
court as of that date. And no execution can thereafter be issued by the justice on
the judgment. 

Sec. 3569. [When and by whom issued.]—Executions for the enforce
ment of judgment in a justiee’s court, may be issued as provided in this chapter,
at any time within ten years from the entry of the judvment, but not afterward.

Sec. 3571. [Return._]—It must be dated on the day on which it is issued, and
made returnable within thirty days thereafter. _
SEC. 3572. [Renewable] If not satisﬁed when returned, it may be renewed
from time to time by an endorsement thereon to that etfect, signed by the justice,
and dated 0f the date of such renewal. 

SEC. 3573. [For thirty days.]-—Such endorsement must state the amount
paid on such execution, and shall continue the execution in full force for thirty
days from the date of renewal.
SEC. 3574. [Property—Property levied on before such renewal, may be
retained by the otﬁcer and sold after renewal.

SEC. 3575. (As amended by ch. 163, 18!}; g. a.) [When allowed.]-Ariy
PFYBOP aggrieved by the ﬁnal udgment of a Justice, may appeal_ therefrom to the
circuit court in the county. [JBut no appeal shall be allowed in any case where
“1}? amount in controversy does not execed twenty-ﬁve dollars]

SEC. 3576. ['l‘lmp.]-—The appeal must be taken and perfected within twenty
days after the rendition of the judgment.

SEC. 3577. [By clerk.]—[f Within twenty days the appellant is prepared to
take his appeal, and is prevented only by the absence or death of the justice, or 1113
inability to not, he may apply to the clerk of the circuit court of the county for
the alloWance of his appeal.

SEC. 3578. [And h0W.]—-Such application shall be founded on an afﬁdavit,
stating the amount and nature of the judgment, and the time of the renditio
thereof, as nearly as practicable, and the reason why he thus applies. Ste. 3579. [Same.]—-The clerk has thereupon the same power to act in the
premises as the justice would have had. He may require the books and papers of
the justice to be delivered to him, for which purpose be may issue a precept to the
sheriff to that effect, if necessary, and may make out and ﬁle the transcript. After
this he shall return to the ofﬁce of the justice of the peace all the papers proper
to be kept by the justice.
SEO. 3580. [Form of bOIldJ—The appeal shall in no case be allowed until a
bond in the following form, or its equivalent, is taken and ﬁled in the cities of the
justice or clerk as above provided, in an amount sufﬁcient to secure the judgment
and costs of appeal:
The undersigned acknowledge ourselves indebted to . . . . . .in the sum of . . . . . . .
dollars, upon the following condition: Whereas. . . . . . . .has appealed from the
judgment of. . .. . . . .a justice of the peace, in an action between. . . . . . . .as plain
tili and . . . . . . ..defendant.
Now,if said appellant ays whatever amount is leagally adjudged against him
in the further progress of this cause, then this bond to be voi .
Approved. A. . . .B. . . ., principal.
.. “justice, 

Sec. 3581. Proceedings suspended—Upon the appeal beincr taken in
accordance wit the foregoing provisions, all farther proceedings in the cause by
him shall be suspended.
SEC. 3582. [If execution is issued.]—1f, in the meantime, an execution has
been issued, the justice shall give the appellant a certiﬁcate that the appeal has
been allowed. Upon that certiﬁcate being presented to the constable, he shall
geese farther action, and release any property that may have been taken in execu
ion.
SEC. 3583. Papers ﬁled,]»-Upon the taking of any appeal, the justice shall
ﬁle in the 0 cc of the clerk of the circuit court, all the original papers relating
to the suit, with the transcript of all the entries in his docket.

Sec. 3084. [Upon the return of the Justice being ﬁled 1n the ofﬁce of the
clerk, the cause Will be deemed in the circuit court.

SEC. 3585. [Return amendedJ—Tha circuit court may, by rule, compel the
justice to allow an appeal, or to make or amend his return according to law.
SEC. 3586._[1llistiikes corrected._]—-Where an omission or mistake has been
made by the Justice in his docket entnes, and that fact is made unquestionable, the
circuit court may correct the mistake or supply the omission, or direct the justice
to do so. 

SEC. 3587. [Returng when made._]—If_ an appeal is allowed ten days before
the next term of the circuit court, the justices return must be made at least five
days before that term. All such cases must be tried when reached, unless contin
ued for cause. 

SEC. 3588. [Notice of appeal.]--If an appeal is not allowed on the day on
which judgment is rendered, written notice thereof must be served on the appellee
or his agent, at least ten days before the term of court to which the cause is return
able. prowded there be ten days intervening, or the suit, on motion of the appelleei
shall be continued at the _cos_t of the appellant.

SEC. 3539- [HOW served —Such notice may be servedlike the original notice,
and if the uppellee or his agent have no place of reeldence in the county, it may be
served by beinv left with the justice. _ ‘ _
SEC. 3590- [Effect Of appealJ—Au appeal brings up a cause tor trial on the
merits, and for no other purpose. All errors, irregulanties, and illegalities are to
be disregarded under such circumstances, if the cause might have been prosecuted
iii the circuit court. 

SEC. 3591. [New demand,]—No new demand or counterclaim can be intro
duced into a case after it comes into the circuit court, unless by mutual consent.

SEC. 3592- [Aplpellant pay COStS.]— The appellant must pay the costs of
the appeal, unless e obtains a more favorable judgment than that from which he
appealed.

SEC. 3593. [When appellee ay.]—If the judgment below is against the appel
lant, he may proﬁ'er to pay a cer inn amount, with costs, and if the ﬁnal amount
recovered be less favorable to the appellee than such proffer, he shall pay costs of
a col.
p nder 

Sec. 3594. [SuretiesJ—Any judgment in the circuit court against the appel
lant shall be entered up against him and his sureties jointly. 

SEC. 3595. [Damages.]—If an appeal is taken for delay, the circuit court shall
award such damages, not exceeding ten per cent on the amount of the judgment
below, as may seem right.
Sec. 3596. [Pleadings ﬁled in circuit court.]——If the appeal is taken from
ajudgment by default, the defendant may ﬁle in the circuit court, and the plaint
iﬁ'reply thereto, any pleadings necessary to properly set forth any defense he may
have to the action. In such case, the costs of the trial before the Justice shall be
taxed to the defendant.

Sec. 3597. [When allowed,_]——Any person aggrieved by an erroneous decision
in a matter of law, or other illegality in the proceedings of a Justice of the peace,
may remove the same, or so much thereof as is necessary, into the circuit court for
correction.

SEC. 3598. [Afﬁdavit_]—The basis of the proceedings IS an affidavit ﬁled in
the otﬁce of the clerk, setting forth the errors complained of, and must be ﬁled in
t esanie time, and the notice must be the same as in case of appeal.
The afﬁdavit of a writ of error to a justice of the peace may be made by an at

SEC. 3599. [\Vl‘iLl—The clerk shall thereupon issue an order commanding the
justice to centify the record and proceedings, so far as they relate to the facts
stated in the afﬁdavit.
SEC. 3600. [Copy.]——A copy of the aﬁidavit shall accompany the order, and
be served upon the justice, who shall, with the least practicable delay, make the
return required.
SEC. 3601. [Proceedings stayed.]—-All proceedin s in the justice's court sub
sequent to judgment, may be stayed by a bond, entered into like that required in
cases of appeals, and on which judgment shall be entered against the princlpal and
surety in like manner and under like circumstances.

SEC. 3602. [Amended returnéI—The circuit court may compel an amended
return when the ﬁrst is not full an complete. .
SEC. 3603. [ J udgmcnt.]——The circuit court may render ﬁnal judgment, or It
may remand the cause to the justice for a new trial. or such further proceedings
as shall be deemend proper, and may prescribe the notice necessary to bring the
parties again before the justice. 

SEC. 3604. [Restitution.]—If the circuit court render a ﬁnal judgment, revers
ing the judgment of the justice of the peace after such judgment has been collected
in whole or in part, it may award restitution with interest, and issue execution
accordingly, or it may remand the cause to the justice for this purpose.

SEC. 3605, [Action to recover personal property.]—The roceedingsto
gain possession of personal property wrongfully withheld, will be t e same as are
prescribed in such cases in the circuit court, except as moditid in this cha ter
SEC. 3606. [AttachmentsJ—Attachmerits are not allowable in justice s courts,
if the sum claimed is less than ﬁve dollars. And if more is claimed and less recov
ered, the plaintifff shall pay all the costs of the proceedings so far as they relate
to the attachment. '
SEC. 3607. [GarnishecJ—The constable has the same power to administer all
oath to the garnishee and to take his answer, as is given to the sheriff in cases 0*
attachment in the circuit court.
SEC. 3608. Garmshees may be required to appear and answer at the
time ﬁxed for the appearance of the parties to the action.
SEC. 3609. Against non-residents.]—When an attachment or order for the
delivery of roperty has been issued by any justice of the peace in any action. '4"
it slhall be ound that the defendant is absent so that personal service cannot
had, the justice, upon the return day, unless the defendant appear, shall make an
order ﬁxing the day for trial, not less than sixty days thereafter, and requiring
notice to be given by any constable as provided in the next section.

Sec. 3610. [Notice to be given.]—Upon such order being made, at least sixty
days notice of the pendency of such action shall be given by posting up written or
printed notices in three public places in the township where the action was com
menced, and such notices shall have the effect of a service. by publication in the
circuit court, and the justice shall proceed to hear the cause upon the day speciﬁed
for that purp0se; but no bond shall be required of the plaintifff after judgment as
may be in the circuit court.

Sec. 3611. A summary remedy for forcible entry or detention Of real
property is allowable:
1. Where the defendant has by force intimidation, or fraud, or stealth, entered,
upon the prior actual possession of another in real property, and detains the same
h_2.] Where a lessee holds over after the termination, or contray to the terms of
15 case;
3. Where the defendant continues in possession after a sale by foreclosure of a
mortgage, or on execution, unless he claims by a tittle paramount to the lien by
Virtue of which the sale was made, or bv title derived from the purchaser at the
sale; in either of which cases, such title shall be clearly and concisely set forth in
the defendant’s pleading. 

SEC. 3612. [Rent in arrear.]—The mere non-pay ment of rent by the time
stipulated in the lease, does not enable a plaintifff to resort to this action unless
ex ressly so stipulated in the lease.
SEC. 3613. [Who may bring.]——The legal representative of a person who
might have been plaintiﬂ' if alive, may bring; this suit after his death.

SEC. 3614. [Notice t0 quit.]—-Before suit can be brought in any except the
ﬁrst of the above classes, three days notice to quit must be given to the defendant
in writing.

SEC. 3615. [PetitionJ—The petition must be in writing and sworn to.
Sec. 3616._ Before what Justice brought.]—The proceedings may be had
before a justice of_ the peace of the township where the premises are situated, or
if there is no justice therein able or qualiﬁed to act, they may be brought before
some justice of an adjoming township. They shall be governed by the same
rules as other cases before justices of the peace except as herein modiﬁed.

SEC. 3617. I: ime f0)“ appearanceJ—The time for appearance and pleading
must not be less than tWO, nor more than six days from the time the notice is served
on the defendant. _
SEC. 3618. [Adjournment1—No adjournment shall be made for more than
ten days, nor to any other place except by consent of parties.
SE0, 3619. [Judgment.]—If the defendant is found guilty, judgment shall
be entered that he be removed from the premises, and that the plaintifff be put 111
ossession thereof, and an order of removal shall issue accordingly, to which shall
he added a clause commanding the ofﬁcer to levy the costs as in ordinary cases.
SEC. 3620._ [Title not investigatedJ—The question of title cannot heinves
tigated in this action. And nothing herein contained prevents a party from suing
for atrespass, or from testing the right of propertv in anv other manner. 

SEC. 3621. [Earl—Thirty days peaceable and uninterrupted possession With
the knowledge of the plaintifff after the cause of action accrued, is a bar to this
proceeding. _ ‘ _
SEC. 3622. [N0 ‘JOllldeI'J—An action of this kind cannot be brought in con
nection with any ot ier, nor can it be made the subject of counterclaim.
SEO. 3623. [Order for removal.]—The order for removal can be executed
only in the day time. _ _
SEC. 36231}. (sztied in code. Restored by ch. 4], 15 g. a.) All appeal 01' Wl‘lt
of error, taken 1n the usual way, if the proper security is given, suspends the
execution for costs, and may, with the consent of the plaintifff, prevent the warrant
of removal from being executed, but not otherwise]
Sec. 3624. lRestitution. l—The circuit court, on the trial of the appeal, may
issue an order of removal or restitution as the case may require.

Sec. 3625. [Ofﬁcial papers to successors.]—Every justice of the peace,
upon the expiration of his term of ofﬁce, must deposit with his successor his oﬂi
cial dockets, as well as those of his predecessors which may be in his custody, there
to be kept as public records. All his ofﬁcial papers shall also be turned over to his
successor.
Sec. 3626. [Or county auditor.]~—If his ofﬁce becomes vacant by death,
removal from the township, or otherwise, before his successor is elected, the said
docket and papers shall be placed in the hands of the county auditor, to be by him
turned over to the successor of the justice when elected and qualiﬁed.
SEC. 3627 [Successor may issue execution.J—The justice with whom the
docket of his predecessor is thus deposited, may issue execution on or give a tran
script of any judgment there entered, in the same manner and with like effect as
the justice who rendered the judgment might have done; and in case of the death,
absence or inability to act of any justice, or in case of the vacation of the ofﬁce
of any justice from any cause. then in such case execution may be issued from the
docket of said 'ustice or transcript given therefrom, by any other justice in said
togvnship with iike effect as might have been done by the justice who rendered the
In gment.
SEC. 3628. [Successor-z how determined.]——When two or more justices
are equally entitled to be deemed the successor in oiﬁce of any justice as afore
said, the county auditor shall determine by lot which is the successor, and certify
accordingly; such certiﬁcate shall be in duplicate, one copy of which shall be ﬁled
in the oﬁice of such auditor, and the other given to such successor.
SEC. 3629. [Interchange.]—ln case of sickness or other disability, or neces
sary absence of a justice at the time ﬁxed for a trial of a cause or other proceed
111g,~ any other justice of the township may, at his request, attend and transact the
business for him without any transfer to another ofﬁce. The entries shall be
made in the docket of the justice at whose oﬂice the business is transacted, and
the same eli‘ect shall be given to the proceedings as though no such interchanging
0f oiﬁcial service had taken place.

SEC. 3630. [Special constables.]—Any justice of the peace may, in writing,
specially depute any person of suitable age to perform any particular duty prop
?rly devolving upon a constable, and for that particular purpose he shall be sub
]ect to the same obligations and receive the same fees. if such person be appointed
to serve an attachment, execution or order, for the delivery of property, he shall,
fore levying upon such property, execute a bond to the state of Iowa in a
pcnal sum of not less than two hundred dollars, to be ﬁxed by the justice,
)Vlth one or more freeholders as sureties, to be approved by and ﬁled with the
Justice making the appointment, and the usual ofﬁcial oath shall be indorsed
thereon and signed. For any breach of such bond, any person injured thereby may
bring suit thereon, in his own name, and recover the same damages as upon a
constable’s bond in like cases.

SEC. 3631. [N0 process.]-—No process can issue from a justice’s court into
another county. exce t when specially authorized.
SEC. 3632- [Sheri 811d constable.]—-The constable is the proper executive
ofﬁcer in a justice‘s court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties required
of him. The powers and duties of the sheriff in relation to the business of the cir
cuit court, so far as the same are applicable and not modiﬁed by statute, devolve
upon the constable in relation to the justice‘s court.
SEC. 3633. [Justice his own clerk .]-——The justice may be regarded as his own
clerk and perform the duty of both judge and clerk.
Sec. 3634. [Successor to renew execution .]—When the term of ot'ﬁceoi a
justice of the peace for any cause expires, his successor may issue execution, or renew
execution, in the same manner and under the same circumstances as the former jus
tice might have done if his term of ofﬁce had not expired.

SEC. 3635. [Board of supervisors furnish docket.}—The board of super‘
visors of each county shall furnish to each justice of the peace of such county, at
well bound blank record book 0f not less than four quires, with index, suitable for
adocket, upon the certiﬁcate of such justice that the same is necessary for the
business of the oﬂice.

SEC. 3636. As amended by ch. 168, 17th 9. a.) [hWho wmpeWntJ—Every
human being wit sufﬁcient capacity to understand t e obligation of an oath is a
competent witness in all cases, both civil and criminal, exceptas herein otherwise de
clared. [Defendants in all criminal proceedings shall be competent witnesses in their
own behalf, but cannot be called as witnesses by the state, and should a defendant
not elect to become a witness, that fact shall not have any weight against him on
the trial,nor shall the attorney or attorneys for the state during the trial, refer to
‘ the fact that the defendant did not testify in his own behalf; and should he do so,
such attorney or attorneys shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and defendant shall
for that cause alone be entitled to a new trial. 

SEC. 3637. [CPCtlib111ty.]—Facts which have heretofore caused the excluSion
of testimony, may still be shown for the purpose of lessening its credibility.

SEC. 3638. [lnterest.]-—No person oﬂ'ered as a. witness in any action or pro
ceeding in tiny court, or before any oﬁicer acting judicially. shall be excluded‘by
reason of his interest in the event of the action or proceeding, or because he is a
party thereto, exce t as_provided in this chapter.

Sec. 3639. [bamez when one party is deceased.]—No party to any action
or proceeding, nor any person interested in the event thereof, nor any person troml
through or under whom any such party or interested person derives any interest
or title by assignment or otherwise, and no husband or wife of any said party 0!
person, shall be examined as a witness in regard to any personal transaction or
communication between such Witness and a person at the commencement of such
examination, deceased, insane or lunatic; against the executor, administrator, hell'
ﬂtrlaws 118,“ 0f km» HSSIgIlee, legatee, devisee or survivor of such deceased person,
or the assignee or guardian of such insane person or lunatic. But this prohibition
shall not extend to any transaction or communication as to which any such 9X9
cutor, administrator heir-at-law, next of kin, assignee, legatee, devises, survivor or
uardian, shall be examined on his own behalf, or as to which the testimony of
such deceased or insane person or lunatic shall be given in evidence. 

SEC. 3640- [Depositions taken conditionally.]——Any person may have
is own deposition, or that of any other person, read and used as evidence in
all cases where his evidence would be incompetent by the provisions of the pre
ceding section, by causing such depositions to be taken either before or after suit
brought during the lifetime or sanity of the person against whom his executor,
on, or other representative. the same 1s t0_be used; provided, such deposition
shall have been taken and ﬁled ten days prior to the death or insanity of such
Demon. it after suit brought, such deposition may be taken in the usual man
ner; if before, then the same may be taken do benne esse, as provided by law.

SEC. 3641. (As repealed and substituted by ch. 33, 15th g. a.) [Husband and
wife as WithQSSGSJ—(Neither the husband nor wife shall in any case be 21 mt
ness against the other, except in a criminal prosecution for a crime committed one
against the other; or in a ClVll action or proceediu one against the other, but they
may in all ClVll and criminal cases be Witnesses or see other.)

SEC. 3942. Neither husband nor Wife can be examined in any case as to any
communication made by the one to the other while married, nor shall the ', ﬁber
the marljlage Telahm! ceases, be permitted to reveal in testimony any suc com
munication made while the marriage subsisted. 

Sec.‘ 3643. [Professional conﬂdence.]——No practicing attornery, counselor,
physician, surgeon, minister of the gospel, or priest of_ any denomination, shall be
allowed in giving. testimony to disclose any conﬁdential communication properly
entrusted to him in his professional .capacity, and necessary and proper to enable
him to discharge the functions of_ his ofﬁce according to the usual course of prac
tice or discipline. Such prohibition shall not apply to cases, where the party in
whose favor the same are made waives the rights conferred.

SEC. 3644. [Public 0ﬂi061'S.]—A public ofﬁcer cannot be examined as to com
munications made to him in ofﬁcial conﬁdence, when the public interests would
suffer by the disclosure. .
SEC. 365. [Judge competent.]—The judge of the court_is a competent wit
ness for either party, and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such case it is in
his discretion to order the trial to be postponed or suspended and to take place
before another 'udge. _
SEC. 3646. Civil Iiability,]—No witness is excused‘ from answering a ques
hon upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subJected to a civil liability.
SEC. 3647. [Criminal.]—-But when the matter sought to be _elicited would
tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him to public ignominy, he is
not compelled to answer except as prowded in the next section.

SEC. 3648. [Provisiongg conthlon,]—A Witness may he interrogated as to
18 prcVious conviction for a felony. But no other proof of such conviction is
competent except the record thereof. 

SEC. 3649. [Moral character.]—The general _moral character of a Witness
may be proved for the purpose of testing his credibility.

SEC. 3600. _ When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or _writing,
is given in ewdence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired
into by the other; thus when a letter is read,'all other letters on the same subject
between the same parties may be given. And when a detached act, declaration
conversation or writing is given in cridence, any other not, declaration, or writing
which is necessary to make it fully understood or to explain the same, may also be
given in eVidence. 

SEC. 36-51. [Writing and printing.}—When an instrument consists partly
of written and partly of printed form, the former controls the latter when the
two are inconsistent.
SEC. 3652. [Understanding of Parties.]—When the terms of an agree
ment have been intended in a diﬁerent sense by the parties to it, that sense is to
prevfiiil against either party in which he had reason to suppose the other under—
stoo it. 
SEC. 3653. [Historical and works of SOien0e.]—-Hist0rical works, books
of science or art, and published maps or charts, when made by persons indiﬁerent
between the parties, are presumptive evrdence of facts of general notoriety or
interest, 
SEC. 3654. [Subscribing witness.]—When a subscribing Witness denies or
does not recollect the execution of the instrument to which his name is subscribed
assnch Witness, its execution may be proved by other eVidence._ _
SEC. 3655. [Handwriting.]—Evidence respecting handwriting may be given
by comparison made by experts, or by the Jury, With writings of the same person
which are proved to be genuine. 

SEC. 3656. [PI‘thlte WI‘ltllng—Every private writing, except a last Will and
testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certiﬁed in the manner pre
scribed for the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real property, may
be read in eVidence without farther proof.
Sec. 3657. [Entries by deceased persons.]—The entries and other writings
of a person deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction and in a position
to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence of such facts when the
entry was made against the interest of the person so making it. or when made in
a professmnal capacity or in the ordinary course of (professional conduct, or when
made in the performance of a duty specially enjoine by law.

Sec. 3658. [When and how admitted in evidence. —Books of account
containing charges by one party against the other, made in t e ordinary course of
business, are receivable in evidence only under the following circumstances, Ellb'
ject to all 'ust exceptions as to their credibility:
1. The ooks must show a continuous dealing with persons generally, or sev
eral itemskof charge at different times against the other party in the same book or
set of boo s;
2. It must‘be shown by the party’s oath or otherwise that they are his books of
original entries; _ _
3. It must be shown in like manner that the charges were made at or near the
time of the transactions therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for not
makingr SHCh PmOf; ,
4_ The charges must also be veriﬁed by the party or clerk who made the entries
to the effect that they believe them just and true, or a sufﬁcient reason must
iven why such veriﬁcation is not made.

SEC. 1. [[11 action on open account.]—Be tt enacted by the general
assembly of the State of Iowa, That in all actions for money due upon an open
account when the defendant has been personally served with the original notice
therein and the petition is duly veriﬁed, and where‘a bill of particulars of said
account is incorporated into or attached to the petition, if the defendant makes
default or fails to controvert or deny the same or any of the items thereof. by
pleading duly veriﬁed, the account or so much thereof as is not so controverted or
denied, shall be taken as true and admitted.

Sec. ‘3659. [EVldence.]—-Every instrument in writing aﬂ'ecting rgal estate,
which is acknowledged or proved, and certiﬁed as hereinbefore directed, may be
read in evidence Without farther proof.

SEC. 3660. [11600111 0!“ certiﬁed copy—The record of such instrument, or'a
duly authenticated copy thereof, is com tent ewdence whenever by the party!
own oath or otherWise the original is s own to be lost, or not belonging to the
party wishing to use the sam‘e,_nor within his control. And in such case no ObJEO
tion to the record that no oﬂicial seal is appended to the recorded acknowledgment
thereof, if, when the acknowledgment purports to have been taken by an ofﬁcer
having an ofﬁcial seal, there be a statement in the certiﬁcate of acknowledgment
that the same if made under his hand and seal of oﬁce, and the records show by a
scroll or otherWise that there was such a seal, which will be presumptive evidence
that the ofﬁcial seal was attached to the original certiﬁcate.

SEC. 3661. [Retrospective.]-—The provisions of the preceding section are
intended to apply to all instruments heretofore recorded, as well as those hereafter
to be recorded.
SEC. 3662. [Not eonclusive.]—Neither the certiﬁcate nor the record, nor the
transcript thereof, is conclusive evidence of the facts therein stated.

SEC. 3663. [Written evidence only admissibleJ—Except when otherwise
specially provided, no eVidence of the contracts enumerated in the next succeeding section is competent, unless it be in writing and Signed by the party charged or by
his lawfully authorized agent.
SEC. 3664. [Contracts,]— Such contracts embrace:
1. .Those in relation to the sale of personal property, when no part of the prop
erty is delivered, and no part of the price is paid;
2. Those made in consideration of marriage; _
3._ Those wherein one person promises to answer for the debt, default, or mis
camage of another, including promises by executors to pay the debt of their prin
cipal from their own estate; _ _
4. Those for the creation or transfer of any interst 1n lands, except leases for a
term not exceeding one year; _ _ .
5. Those that are not to be performed Within one year from the making thereof.

SEC. 3665. [Exceptions.]——The provmon of the ﬁrst sub-dmswn of the pre~
ceding section, does not apply when the article of personal property sold is not at
the time of the contract owned by the vendor and ready for delivery; but labor,
skill, or money, are necessarily tolb’e expendedm producing or procuring the same;
nor do those of the fourth sub-division of said section apply where the purchase
money, or any portion thereof, has been received by the vendor, or when the vendee,
with the actual or implied consent of the vendor, has taken and held possession
thereof under and by virtue of the contract, or when there is any other circum
stances, which by the law heretofore in force, would haVe taken a. case out of the
statute of frauds. 

SEC. 3666. Lthn not denied in the pleadings.]—The above regulations
relating merely to_tlie_ proof of contracts, do not prevent the enforcement of those
which are not denied in the pleadings, unless in cases where the contract is sought
to be enforced, or damages to be recovered for the breach thereof, against some
rson other than him who made it.

SEC. 3667- [Party made witness.] *Nothing in the above provisions shall
prevent the party himself against _whom the unwritten contract is sought toenforced, from being. called as a Witness by the opposite party, nor his oral testi
mony from being evidence.

SEC. 3668. [Notary public: certiﬁcate 0f.]—The usual protest of _a not“?
public W1l3h011t PYOOt Of 1118 Slgnature or notarial seal, is prima facie evidence 0
what it recites concerning the dishonor and notice of a bill of exchan e or prom—
issory note, and a copy from his record, properly certified to by him, s all receive
such faith and credit as it is entitled to by the law and custom of merchants.

SEC. 3669. [Inferior tribunals: presumptiOn.]—_The_future proceedings of
all officers, and of all courts of limited and inferior jurisdiction Within this state,
shall, like those of a general and superior jurisdiction, be presumed regular, except
inregard to matters required to be entered of record, and except when otherwise
expressly declared.

SEC. 3670. [Records of court In same county.]—The records and papers
properly filed 1n_a cause in either the district or circuit c0urt of a county, are
equally eVIdence 1n the other court. Deposrtions taken for either court may be
used in the other With the same effect, subject to like objection, as if taken in such
court.

SEC. 36n' [Clerks to issue subpmnaS-l—The clerks of the several courts
shall, on the application of any person having a cause or any matte,- pendiug m
court, issue a subpoena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all the
names required by the applicant in one Subpceml, WhiCh may be served by the
Sheriﬁl coroner‘ or any constable 0f the county, 01‘ by the Party or any other per
son' When a subpoena is not served by the Sheriff. coroner, or constable, Proof
0f ser‘gce Shall be shown by aﬁidaVit; but no costs of serving the same shall be
allowe .
SEC. 3672- [To whom directed: contents 0f.]—The subpoena shall be di.
rected to the person therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time or
place to teStify as a wltness' 5nd it may contain a clause directing the witness to
bring With him any bOOk' wnting~ Or other thing under his control, which hels
bound by law tolproduce as evidence,
sEC. 3673' .[ 0w .fal'. Witnesses in civil cases can be compelled to
attend .J—Wltnesses 1n cml cases cannot be compelled to attend the district or
circuit court out of the state wnere they are served, nor at a distance of more than
seventy miles from the plaice of their reSidence. or from. that where they are served
With a Sproana' “ﬁles-s w-lthiu the same countY- No other subpuma but that
from the mania or mmmt- court can compel his attendance at a greater distance
than thirty miles from his place of residence, or of service, if not in the same
county. .
SEC. 3674- [May demand ayment in advance.]—Witriesses are entitled
to receive in advance, If demani ed, their traveling fees to and from the court, to
gether with their fees for one day’s attendance. At the commencement of each
day after the ﬁrst, they are further entitled, on demand, to receive the legal fees
for that day in advance- If not thus paid they are not compelled to attend or re.
main as Witnesses.

SEC. 3675. [Penalty for failure to obeyJ—For a failure to obey a valid
subpoena, without a sufﬁcient cause or excuse, or for a refusal to testify after
appearance, the delinquent is guilty of contempt of court. He is also liable to the
party by whom he was~ subpoenaed for all consequences of such delinquency,
together with ﬁfty dollars additional dainaves. .
SEC. 3676. Eamo.]~—Before a. witness is tli us liable for a contempt for not appear
ing,he must served personally with the process, by reading it to him, and by leav
ing ucopy thereof with him, if demanded, and it must be shown that the fees and
traveling expenses allowed by law were tendered to him, if required; or it must appear
that acopy of the subpoena, if left at his usual place of residence, came into his hands,
together with the said fees and traveling eXpeuses above mentioned.
Sec. 3677. [When witness conceals himself: power of oﬂicer.]—If a wit
ness conceal himself, or in any other manner attempt to avoid being personally served
withasubpoeua, any constable or slieriif having the subpoena. may use all necessary
and proper means to serve the same, and for that purpose may break into any build
ing or other place where the witness is to be found, having ﬁrst made known his
business and demanded admission. _
Sec. 3678. LPrisonerJ—A person conﬁned in any prison in this state may, by
order of any court of record,be required to be produced for oral examination in the
county where he is imprisoned, and in a criminal case in any county in the state;
but in all other cases his examination must be by deposition.

SEC. 3680. [Persons authorized by laws of other states: power of.)—
When by the laws of any other state or country testimony may be taken in this
state to be used in the courts of such state or country, and also in all cases herein
Provided for taking depositions, the persons authorized to take such depositions
have power to issue subpoenas and compel obedience thereto, to administer oaths,
and to do any other not of a court which is necessary for the accomplishment of
the purpose for which they are acting. _
SEC. 3631. [Samte—Sllbpinnas issued by them are valid to the same extent; as
those emanating from a justice’s court, and may be served and returned in the
same manner. _
Sec. 36%. LOﬁioel-s to serve,]—A ny sheriff or constable, when called upon for
that purpose, shall serve such subpoenas and make return thereof.
SEC. 3683. {When party fails to obey subpinna.]-—In addition to the above
remediesit aparty to a suit in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed, fail to
appear and give testimony, the other party may, at his option, have a continuance
of the cause as in cases of other witnesses, and at the cost of the delinquent.
SEC. 3684. [Samuel—Or it he shows, by his own testimony or otherwise, that
he could not have a full personal knowledge of the transaction, the court may
order his pleading to be taken as true; such order, however, is subject to be recon
Bfilei'ed during the term of the court upon satisfactory reasons being shown for such
delinquency.

SEC. 3685. [When and how done.]——The district or circuit court may, by
rule, require the production of any papers or books which are material to the just
determination of any cause pending before it, for the purpose of being inspected
and copied 'by or for the party thus calling for them.

SEC. 3686. fPetition. —The petition for that purpose must state the facts ex
acted to be prOVed by suc books or papers, and that, as the petitioner believes, such
books and papers are under the control of the party against whom the rule is
sought, and must show wherein they are material. The rule shall thereupon be
granted to produce the books and papers, or show cause to the contrary, if the
court deem such rule expedient and proper.
SEC. 3687. [Consequence 0f failure to 0bey.]—On failure to obey the rule,
or show suﬁicient cause for such failure, the same consequences shall ensue as it
the party had failed to appear and testify when subpoenaed by the party now call
in for the books and papers.
SEC. 3688. [W_r1tin called for by one party.]—Though a writing called
for by one party is by t e other produced; the party thus calling for it is not
obliged to use it as ewdence in the case.

SEC. 3689. [Aﬂidavit.]—An afﬁdavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 3690. [Out of the state. I—An aﬁidavit may be made within or without
this state before any person authorized to administer oaths.
SEC. 3691. [Before whom madeJ—Afﬁduvits taken out of the state before
any judge or clerk of a court of record, or before a notary public, or acommis
sioner appointed by the governor of the state to take acknowledgement of deeds
in the state where such afﬁdavit is taken, are of the same credibility as if taken
within the state.

Sec. 3693. [Same.]—If such ofﬁcer is satisﬁed that the object is legal and
proper, he shall issue his subpoena to bring the witness before him, and if he fails
then to make a full atﬁdavit of the facts within his knowledge to the extent re
quired of him by the ofﬁcer, the latter may proceed to take his deposition by ques
tion and answer in writing in the usual way, which deposition may afterwards be
used instead of an ordinary utﬁdavit.
Sec. 3694. [N0tice.]—The otﬁcer thus applied to may, in his discretion, require
notice of the taking of such afﬁdavit or deposition to be given to any other person
interested in the subject matter, and allow him to be present and cross-examine
Such witness.
SEC. 3695. [Cross interrogatories.]—The court or oﬁicer to whom any aﬁi
davit is presented as a basis for some action, in relation to which any discretion is
lodged with such court or ofﬁcer, may, if deemed proper, require the witness to be
brought before some proper ofﬁcer and subjected to crossinterrogatories by the
opposite party.
SEC.. 3696. [Signature and seal: presumption.j—The signature and seal of
such of the otﬁcers herein authorized to take deporutions or aﬂidavits as have a
seal, and the simple signature of such as have no sea]. are presumptive evidence of
the genuineness of such signature as well as of the ofﬁcial capacity of the oﬂicer,
except as herein otherwise declared.

Sec. 3697. [Publications; how proved_]—~Publicati0ns required by law to
made in a newspaper, may be proved by the atﬁdawt of any person having
knowledge of the fact, specifying the times when, and the paper in which the pub
lication was made. But such aﬁidavit must, for the purposes now contemplated,
be made within six months after the last dav of publication.

SEC. 3698. [Posting up pgpgng—The posting up or service of any notice
or other paper required by law. may be proved by the aﬁidavit of any competent
Witness attached to a copy of said notice or paper, and made within six months of
the time 0t such posting up.

SEC. 3699. [Other facts,]——An y other fact which is required to be shown by
at'ﬁdavit, and which may be required for future use 1_n any action or other proceed-l
111%» may be proved by pursuing the course above indicated, as nearly as the cir
cumstances of the case will admit.

SEC. 3700. [How perpetuated.]—Such proof so made may be perpetuated
and preserved for future use, by ﬁling the papers above mentioned in the ofﬁce of
the clerk of the circuit court. And the original aﬁdavit appended to the notice
or paper, if there be one, and if not, the aﬁidavit by itself, is presumptive evi
dence of the facts stated therein, but does not preclude other modes of proof now
held sufﬁcient.

Sec. 3701. [Field notes and plats.]-—A copy of the ﬁeld-notes of any sur
veyor, or a plat made by him and certiﬁed under oath as correct, may be received
as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of a tract of land, or any other fact
whose ascertainment requires only the exercise of scientiﬁc skill or calculation.
SEC. 3702. [Copies Of record and entries.]—Duly certiﬁed copies of all
records and entries, or pa ers belonging to any public oﬁice, or by authority of law
ﬁled to be kept therein, s all be evidence in all cases of equal credibility with the
original records or papers so ﬁled.

Sec. 3703. [Books of original entries.]—The recorder in each of the sev
eral counties_in this state, shall cause to be produced a book, entitled “copiesuof
original entries” to kept as a. record in his oﬂice, in which shall be copied alist
of the original entries of land within his county, with name of the person or per
sons entering the same and the date of such entry. for which he shall receive a
reasonable compensation, to be audited and allowed by the board of supervisors of
his county.
SEC. 3704. [Copies oﬁJ—Said book. containing a copy of such entries when
compared with the originals, and certiﬁed as true copies by the register of the land
oﬁice at which such original entries were made, shall be deemed a matter of record.
and certiﬁed copies thereof under the hand of said recorder may be received and
read in evidence in all courts in this state, with like eﬁ'ect as other certiﬁed
co ies of original papers recorded in his ol‘ﬁce.

SEC. 3705. [SameJ—Said recorder shall from time to time, as he may deem 1t
necessary, procure in the same manner copies of any additional entries, under the
same restrictions and_wrth like eﬁ'ect until all the lands in his county shall have
been entered and certiﬁed copies of the entries thereof procured.
SEC. 3706. [OiﬁQQI' t0 1V6 00pieS.]-Every ofﬁcer having the custody Of *3
ublic record or writing is ound to give any person, on demand, a certiﬁed COPY
thereof on payment of the legal fees therefore.

SEC. 3707. [Copies maps. etc., in oﬁice of surveyor general.]——Copies
of all maps. oﬂicial letters and other documents in the ofﬁce of the surveyor-gen
eral of the United States, when certiﬁed to by that oth'cer according to law, shall _
be received by the courts of this state as presumptive evidence of the existence of
the originals and that said copies are copies of the original, notwithstanding such
maps. ofﬁcial letters, or other papers, may themselves be copied.
SEC. 3708. [Certiﬁcates as to loss of papers.]—The certiﬁcate of a public
ofﬁcer that he has made diligent and ineﬂ'ectual search for a paper in his ofﬁce, is
of the same efﬁcacy in all cases as if such oﬂicer had personally appeared and
sworn to such facts.
Sec. 3709. [Duplicate receipts of receiver of land oﬂice.]—The usual
duplicate receipt of the receiver of any land oiiice. or if that be lost or destroyed,
or beyond the reach of the party, the certiﬁcate of such receiver that the books of
his olﬁce show the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of title
equivalent to a patent against all but the holder of an actual patent.
Sec. 3710. [Certiﬁcate of register. l—The certiﬁcate of the register or
receiver of any land ofﬁce of the United States as to the entry of land within his
district, shall be presumptive evidence of title in the person entering to the real
estate therein named.

SEC. 3711. [Signature presumed genuine.]—In the cases contemplated in
the last seven sections, the signature of the oﬁcer shall be presumed to be genuine,
until the contrary is shown.

SEC. 3712. [Of this state or federal courts.]—A judical record of this
state, or of any of the federal courts of the United States, may be proved by the
Eroduction of the original, or by a copy thereof certiﬁed by the clerk or the person
ﬁring the legal custody thereof, authenticated by his seal of oﬁice, if he have one.

SEC. 3713. [Of another state. j—That of another state may be proved by
the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal,
together with a certiﬁcate of a judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate that
the attestation is in due form of law.

SEC. 3714. [Of a. justice of the peace.]—-The ofﬁcial certiﬁcate of a justice
of the peace of any of the United States to any judgment and the preliminary
proceedings before him, supported by the ofﬁcial certiﬁcate of the clerk of any
court of_record Within the county in which such justice resrdes, stating that he
is an acting justice of the peace of that county, and that the signature to his
certiﬁcate is genome, is sufﬁcient endence of such proceedings and judgment.

SEC. 3715. £Of 8. foreign country.]——Copies of records and proceedings in
the courts 0' a foreign country may be admitted in evidence, upon being
authenticated as follows:
1. By the ofﬁcial attestation of the clerk or ofﬁcer in whose custody such
records are legally kept; and,
2. By the certiﬁcate of one of the judges or magistrates of such court. that
the person so attesting is the clerk or ofﬁcer legally entrusted with the custody of
such records, and that the signature to his attestation is genuine; and,
3. By the ofﬁcial certiﬁcate of the oﬁicer who has the custody of the principal
seal of the government under whose authority the court is held, attested by said
seal, stating that such court is duly constituted, specifying the general nature of
its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the court.

SEC. 3716. [Of the executive of U. S. or any state or foreign gov
ernmentJ—ActS of the executive of the United States, or of this or any other
state of the union, 0r Of a foreign government, are proved by the records of the
state department of the respective governments, or by public documents purport
ing to have been printed by order of the legislature of those governments
respectively, or by either branch thereof.
Sec. 3717. [01 the legislature of this or other state or foreign goven
merit. ——The proceedings of the legislature of this or any other state of the union
or the nited State§, or of any foreign government, are proved by the journals of
those bodies respectively, or of either branch thereof, and either by copies ofﬁcially
certiﬁed by the clerk of_the house in which proceeding was had, or by a copy pill“
porting to have been printed by their order. 

SEC. 3715} [Prlnted COPIES 0f the SMtlltGJ—Printed copies of the statute
laws of this or any other of the United States, or of congress, or of any foreign
government, Purpomng 0“ proved to have been published under the authority
thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the
courts of such state or government, shall be admitted in the courts of this state as
presumptive evidence of such laws.

SEC. 3719. [Written law.]—The publiciseal of the stateor county afﬁxed to
a copy of the written law or other public writing, is also admiSSible as eVidcnce of
such law or writing respectively. The unwritten laws of any other state or gov
ernment may be proved as facts by parol evidence, and also by the books of reports
of cases acljudved in their courts. ' _
SEC. 372d. TPrinted copies of ordinances of any city or to_wn.]—-The
printed copies of the ordinances of any municipal corporation published by its
authority, and transcripts of any ordinances or of_ any act or. proceeding of a
iiiunicipal corporation recorded in any book, or entries on any minutes or_journals
kept under the direction of such municipal corporation, and certified by its clerk,
shall be received in evidence for any purpose for which the original ordinances,
books, minutes or journals would be received and with as much etfect. The clerk
shall furnish such transcripts, and he shall be entitled to charge therefore at the
rate that the clerk of the district court is entitled to charge for transcripts of
records from that court. 

SEC. 3_721. [\Vhen taken and by whom] —Af_ter the commencement of a
civil action or other civil proceeding, if a. Witness reSides Within this state but in a
dillcreut county from the place of trial, or is about to go beyond the reach of a
Subpoena, or is for any other cause expected to be unable to attend court at the
time of trial, the party wishing his testimony, may, whenever_ he deems it ex
pedient, take his deposition in writing before any person havrng authority to
administer oaths; and if the action is by equitable proceedings and to be tried on
Written evidence, then without any other reason therefore, either party may so take
the depOSition of any witness. 

SEC. 3722. [ N012108.1- Reasonable notice of the name of a Witness and the time
and place when and where the same will be taken, must be given to the opposite
arty; but if_ notices are given in the same case by the same party, and of the tak
ing of depos1tions at different places upon the same. day, they shall be invalid; and
no party shall be requ1red to take depos1tions 0n the day of the general election,
or on the fourth day of July.

SEC. 3723. [Of Witness out 0f COIIth.]—The deposntion of a Witness read
ing out of the county,_mey be taken before one or more commissioners on written
interrogatories: 
SEC. 3724. LW'hO commissionersJ—Thc party Wishing to take such dep0§1
tion, may select any 0f the othcers mentioned in the next section as such coinulls
sioners, or the parties may agree upon, or the court appoint in the commission,
an other individual for that purpose. 
SEC. 3725. [Same.]—The clerk, or any judge of any court of record, or any
commissioners appomted by the governor of this state to take acknowledment of
deeds in another state, or any notary public, or any consul or consular agent of the
United States, may be selected and appointed by the party such commissmnfm
either by the name of ofﬁce of such ofﬁcer, or by his individual name and'OilIlCllll
style and the name of the court of which such constituted commissioner is clﬂrk
or judge, and the name of the state and county; or, if without the United Slates
and Canada, the name of the state and town, or city in which such commissioner
of deeds, notary,'0r_60n_sul or consular agent resides, must be stated in the notice
and in the commission issued.

SEC. 3726- [Qualiﬁcation.]—None of the above named ofﬁcers are permitted
to take the depositions aforesaid, by virture of a commission directed to him merely
assuch oﬂicer, unless within the limits to which his ofﬁcial jurisdiction extends.
SEC. 3727- [Notice: action before a j ustice.]—_Reasonable notice must be
given the adverse party of a time when a commission Will be sued out of the olﬁce
of the clerk of the court in which the action is pending; if such action is in an
inferior court, then from the ofﬁce of the clerk of the circuit court for taking the
deposition of the witness, naming him, which notice must be accompanied with a
co y of the interrogatories to be asked such witness.

SEC. 3728. [Cross interrogatories.]—At or before the time thus ﬁxed, the
opposite party may ﬁle cross-interrogatories. If cross-interrogators are not ﬁled,
the clerk shall ﬁle the following: _ .
1_. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action? and if interested, ex
plain the interest you have;
2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made from your personal
knowledge? and if not, do your answers show what are made from your personal
knowledge, and what are from information, and the source of that information?
If not, now show what is from information, and give its source;
State everything you know concerning the subject of this action, favorable to
sit or party.
SEC. 3729. [Rules.]—-Subject to the regulations herein contained, the court
may]; establish farther rules for taking depositions and all other acts connected there—
Wi 

SEC. 3730. [Reasonable notice: what deemed.]—The notice hereinbefore
mentioned, is at least, when served on the attorney, ten days, and when served on
theparty within the county, ﬁve days; if served on the party anywhere else, the
notice shall be that required under other similar circumstances in the service of an
Onglnal notice; and when depositions are to be taken in pursuance of the ﬁrst of
the above methods, one day in addition must be allowed for every thirty miles
travel from the place where the notice is served, to that where the depositions are
igtbeltaken. N0 party shall be re'duired to take depositions when the court is in
on session.

SEC. 3731. How served.]—-—The notice, or notice and copy of interrogatories.
may be served _v the same persons on the same persons in the same manner, and
may be returned, and the return shall be authenticated in the same way, as should
be an original notice in the same cause when served other than by publication.
SEC. 3732. [011 attorney.]—It may also be served personally on any attorney
of the adverse arty of record in the cause.
SEC. 3733. By ﬁling in clerk’s 0ﬂi06.]—-VVhenever the adverse party has
been notiﬁed by publication only, and has not appeared, he shall be deemed served
with the notice, or the notice and interrogatories, by the ﬁling of the same with
the clerk in the cause.

SEC. 3734. [Commission: form of. —The commission issues in the name of
the court and under its seal. It must e signed by the clerk, and need contain
nothing but the authority conferred upon the commissioner, instructions to guide
him, and a statement of the cause and court in which the testimony is to be used,
and a copy of the interrogatories on each side appended.
SEC. 3735. IiHOW taken.]—The person before whom any of the depositions
above contemp ated are taken, must cause the interrogatories propounded,whether
written or oral, to be written out, and the answers thereto to be inserted immedi
ately underneath the respective questions. The answers must be in the language
as nearly as practicable, of the witness, if either party requires it. The whole
being read over by or to the witness, must be by him subscribed and sworn to in
the usual manner.

SEC. 3736. [Exhibits appendedJ—All exhibits produced before the person
taking the deposition, or proved or referred to by any witness, or correct copies
thereof, must be appended to the depositions and returned with them, unless sufﬁ
cient reason be shown for not so doing. ,
SEC. 3737. [Certiﬁcate.]--The person taking the deposition shall attach hls
certiﬁcate thereto, stating that it was subscribed and sworn to by the deponent at
the time and place therein mentioned. The whole, including the commission an
interrogatories, when any such were issued, must then be sealed up and returned
to the clerk of the proper county by mail, unless some other mode be agreed upon
between the parties.

Sec. 3738. [Neither. party to be present.]—-Where a depOSItlon is taken
upon interrogatories, neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at
the examination of a witness, unless both parties are present or represented by
magent or attorney, and the certiﬁcate shall state such fact if party or agent is
resent.

SEC. 3739. Ltlpened: not to be taken from clerk’s olﬁce.j—The deposi
tions when thus returned, must be opened by the clerk and placed on ﬁle in his
oﬁice, after which he shall at any time furnish any person with an attested copy
of the same upon payment of the customary fees, but must not allow them to be
taken from his ofﬁce previous to the next term of the court, unless by the mutual
written consent of the parties

SEC. 3740. [Returned bv mail.]——The de ositions when thus returned by mail,
must be directed to the clerk of the court. '1 hey shall state on the outside of the
envelope the title to the cause in which the are to be used. . .
SEC. 3741. gUnimpor-tant deviations. —Unimportant denatwns from any
of the above irections shall not cause the deposition to be excluded where no sub
stantial prejudice could be wrought to the opposite (party by such deviation.

SEC. 3742. [Authentication 0f_]——Wliere depositions are directed to be taken
before a judge or justice of the peace, merely by his name of oﬂice, the return must
conlain an authentication by the clerk of the proper court, under his seal of oﬂice,
verifying the fact that the person who took the deposition is really such oﬂicer.
SEC. 3743- [Deposition to show reason for taking.]-—The deposition in
each of the above cases must show that the witness is a non-resident of the county,
(I'l'Sllt‘ll other fact as renders the taking of the deposition legal, and no such depo
EllIO? shall be read on the trial, if, at the time, the witness imself is produced in
cour.

SEC. 3744. Lin justice’s court.]-—Dep0sitions taken to be used in a justice‘s
c(nutshell be transferred to the court to which the cause is appealed, and used on
he trial of such appeal in the same manner as If regularly taken therein.

SEC. 3745. [Testimony.]—The testimony of a witness may be perpetuated in
the following manner:
SEC. 3746. {Petitionz statements.]—The applicant shall ﬁle in the ofﬁce of
the clerk of t is district or circuit court, a petition, to be veriﬁed in which shall he
set f0rth specially, the subject matter relative to which testimony is to be taken1
and the names of the persons interested, if known to the applicant; and if not
known, such general description as he can give of such persons. as heirs, devises“,
alienees, or otherwise. The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to
be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to each; that the appliczint
expects to be a party to an action in a court of this state, in which such testimony
will, as he believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate com
mencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be the plaintifff.
SEC. 3747. LOi‘der of court orjudge.]——-The court, or the judge thereof, may
forthwith make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The order
shall prescribe the time and place of the examination; how long the parties
interested shall be notiﬁed thereof, and the manner in which they shall be notiﬁed.
Sec. 3748. [Notice: if cannot be done: proceedingsJ—When it apnea“
satisfactorily to the court or judge that the parties interested cannot be personally
notiﬁed, such court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the
petition and prepare and ﬁle cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The
witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant and upon
cross interrogatories where they are required to be prepared, and no others shall
be propounded to them; nor shall any statement he received which is not respons
ive to some of them. The attorney ﬁling the _cross interrogatories shall be allowed
a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
SEC. 3749- [Before whom taken.]—Such depositions shall be taken before
some one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one specwlly
authorized by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the clerk's ofﬁce of the
court in which the petition is ﬁled. I
SEC. 3750. [Courtor judge to approve.]——The court or judge, if satisﬁed
that the dep0sitious have been pr0perly taken and as herein required, shall approve
the same and order them to be ﬁled; and if a trial be had between the pﬂftles
named in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest, such depositions.
or certiﬁed copies thereof, may be given in evidence by either party where the W16
nesses are dead or insane, or where their attendance for oral examination cannot
be obtained as required; but such depositions shall be subjected to the same objec
tions for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made to depositions therein
pending an action._ _

SEC. 3751. (As substituted by ch. 26‘, 17th _(/. a.) [Notice of_ﬁling.]—(_That the
clerk shall, forthwith, after ﬁling depositions iii _his ofﬁce issue a notice of the
ﬁling of such depositions, reciting therein the title of the cause, names of Wit
nesses, and the date of ﬁling such depositions, and serve the same upon the attor
neys of the parties in the action therein recited. _
Said notice shall be duly served, when the clerk shall have deposited copies of
thesamc in the post-ofﬁce at the place where such cause is pending for trial, duly
directed to the post-ofﬁce address of the repective attorneys, for the parties in such
action, which notice shall be so mailed by the clerk 0n the day he ﬁles such deposi
tions; and if the post-ofﬁce address of any attorneys of the parties is unknown
to the clerk, he shall then deposit said notice, _addressed to‘ such attorney or
attorneys, at the post-oﬂice where such cause is then pending for trial. No
Exceptions to dispositions other than for incompetcncy or irrelevancy shall be
regarded, unless made by motion ﬁled by the morning of the second day of the
ﬁrst term held after the depositions have been ﬁled by the clerk: Provided, such
depositions have been ﬁled three days prior thereto.
f the depositions are afterwards received during such term, such motion shall
be ﬁled by the morning of the third day after such depositions are ﬁled.
. [Time of ﬁling motion to supprBSSJ—All motions to suppress depOsitions
must be ﬁled before the cause is reached for trial.)

SEC. 3752. [Hearingfl—The court shall, on motion of either party, hear and
decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions before the commencement
of the trial.
SEC. 3753- [Errors waived.]—Errors of the court in its decision upon excep
tion to depositions are waived, unless excepted to.
SEC. 3754. [Costs.]—In all cases of taking depositions as hereinbefore provided
the costs thereof must be paid in the ﬁrst place by the party at whose instance
they are taken, subject like other costs to be taxed against the failing party in the
suit.

SECTION 3755. [Governor and seeretary.]—The salary of the governor
shall be three thousand dollars per annum; and the salary of the private secretary
of the governor [ﬁfteen] hundred dollars per annum.
Sec. 3756. (As amended by ch. 125, 21st 9. a.) [Secretary of state and
deputy.]—The salary of the secretary of state shall be twenty-two hundred dollars
per annum; and the salary of the deputy secretary of state shall be [ﬁfteen] hun
dred dollars per ann um.
The secretary of state shall collect the following fees:
For each commission to commissioners in other states, three dollars.
For each commission to notaries public, one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents.
For certiﬁcate, with seal attached, one dollar. .
For a copy of any law or record, upon the request of any private person or cor
poration. for every hundred words ten cents. _
For [ﬁling] articles of incorporation other than those of a public character, [ﬁve
dollars, and for recording the same, for every hundred _words or fraction thereof,
ﬁfteen cents; and upon payment of the fees above prowded, the secretary of state
shall upon request issue a certiﬁcate under the seal of his ofﬁce, setting forth the
fact of such ﬁling.
Sec. 3757, [Auditor and deputy,]—The salary of the auditor of state shall
he twenty-two hundred dollars per annum; and the salary of the deputy auditor of
state shall be [ﬁfteen] hundred dollars per annum; and the auditor shall collect
feqsas provided in chapters on insurance.
SEC. 3758“ [Treasurer and deputy_]—-The salary of the treasurer of state
shall be tWenty-two hundred dollars per annum; and the salary of the deputy
treasurer of state [ﬁfteen] hundred dOIIars er annurn.
(The oﬁice 0f register 0 the State Land ﬂice abolished by chapter 206, of the
laws of 1880. See post page .) .
SEC. :3760. (As amended by ck. 118,218t g. a.) Superintendent of public
instruction and deputy] -—— The salary of t e supermtendent of public
Instruction shall be twenty-two hundred dollars per annum; and the salary of the
Eputy superintendent of public instruction, [ﬁfteen] hundred dollars per annum.
SEC. 3761. utant general. l—The salary of the adjutant general shall [be
ﬁfteen hundrer' dollars per annum. . _ _
Sec. 3762. [mate librarian_]—The salary of the state librarian shall be [one
tllzpusand] dollars per annum, nor shall any extra amount be paid for any assistant
ranan.
SEC. 3763. [Superintendent of weights and measures.]—The salary of
thesuperintendent, of weights and measures shall be ﬁfty dollars per annum.

SEC. 3769. (As substituted by ch. 172, 2lst g. a.) [Judges of supreme court]
-[The salary of each judge of the supreme court shall be four thousand dollars
per annum.]
SEC. 3770. (As substituted by ch. 172, 21st g. a.) [Attorney-gcneral._l-—[The
salary of the attorney-general shall be ﬁfteen hundred dollars per auuum, and
Whenever he is required by the duties of his oﬁce, or by directions of the governor
or general assembly to attend any of the courts of this state, or any federal courts
of this or any other state, he shall receive, in addition to his salary, ﬁve dollars for
each day he attends such courts, and the same mileage in going to and from such
courts as is allowed members of the general assembly for attending sessions thereof,
to be computed by the nearest practicable route.
SEC. 3771. (As amended by ch. 119, 21st q. 71.) Salary of clerk and deputy
clerk supreme court.]——The salary of the clerk of the supreme court shall be
twenty-two hundred dollars per annum; [and the salary of the deputy clerk of
the supreme court shall be [iﬁfteen] hundred dollars per annum.
[Shall charge and col ect fees.]-—The clerk shall collect t e following fees,
and account for them as provided in section 3778 of the code, and shall also keep
account of and report in like manner all uncollected fees:
Upon ﬁling_each appeal, three dollars;
Ppon entering judgment when the cause has been tried on its merits, two
do lars;
Upon each continuance, one dollar;
Upon issuing each execution. one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents;
Upon entering satisfaction of each judgment, ﬁfty cents;
Upon each writ, rule or order to be served upon any person not in court, twenty
ﬁve cents; _ _ _
For copying an opinion to be transmitted to an inferior court upon reversal oia
judgment or an order, to paid by the party against whom the costs are adjudgedv
or for a copy of such opinion, or any record made at the request of any person.
for each one hundred words, ten cents]

Sec. 7. [All fees turned into state treasury.]—-The compensation of ﬁfteen
hundred dollars per annum shall be in full for all compensation to such deputy
state ofﬁcers, and allfees received by or paid to any deputy state ofﬁcers by virtue
of their ofﬁcml pos1tions shall be turned into the state treasury. They $11311 recelYB
such deputy, provided, further, that no clerk appointed by the auditor or his dep
uty, the treasurer or his deputy, the secretary of state or his deputy, or by the
executive council or the governor, shall receive, directly or indirectly, a greater
sum than ﬁfteen hundred dollars per annum for such services as such clerk.
SEC. 3772 repealed by section 2, chapter 74, laws of 1878.)
use. 3773. If any of the foregoing fees of the clerk are not paid in advance,
execution may issue therefore except where the fees are payable by a county or the
state.

SEC. 3774. [Districtjudges.]~The salary of each judge of the district and of
the circuit court shall be twenty-two hundred dollars per annum.
SEC. 3775- [District attorney.l-The salary of each district attorney shall be
sixhundred dollars per annum, and they shall receive in addition thereto the fol
lowing fees, to be audited and paid like other claims against the counties:
For each conviction on a plea of guilty, ﬁve dollars;
For each jury trial in cases of misdemeanor, ten dollars;
For each jury trial in cases of felony, twenty dollars;
For each judgment for costs only, ﬁve dollars;
For prosecuting an information before a justice of the peace for a violation of
the laws in relation to the sale of intoxicating liquors, ﬁve dollars;
For all ﬁnes and forfeitures actually collected by him, ten per cent upon all sums
less than two hundred dollars, and upon all sums exceeding that amount, one per
cent.

SEC. 3776_ in cage of conviction.]—-Iu cases of convrctiou, the fees con
templated in t e preceding section shall be taxed against the defendant, and when
collected paid into the county treaSHYY- .
Sec. 3777. (As substitufed by ch. 195, 18th 9. (1.) Compensation. l—[Short-hand
rePOrters shall receive com ensation as follows: 0" “Ch day “many in attend"
ance in court under the or er of the indge~ 5}“31‘ sum “.may be ﬁxed by the judge'
not exceeding six dollars per day, to be audited and paid by the county upon the
certiﬁcate of the judge of the court; but the udge shall not .order the attendance
ofsaid reporter except during that Parl’ 0ft 8 term When'-m his iUdgment‘ the
reporting of the testimony will be requlred~ and.“ $1911 dISCharge Said “porter
from further attendance at each term as soon al, in his judgment, the reporting Of
testimony will not be farther required for such term; and for making transcripts
0mg original notes, for each one hundred words, srx cents; but vvhere such tran
scripts an, desired in any civil case, the fees therefore shall be paid by the party
desiring the same, and the amount allowed such reporter for reporting testimony
nany case shall, in all instances, except where the defendant in a criminal case
magniﬁed, be taxed as a part of the costs 1n the case; promded. that when the
defendant in any criminal cause, who shall have perfected an appeal from a judg
ment against him, presents to the judge satisfactory proof, by aﬂ‘idavit or other
wise, that he is unable to ay for such transcript, the court, if in the opinion of
the judge justice will be thereby promoted, may order said transcript to be made
at the eitpense of the county, and the original notes of any testimony taken in any
case shall be ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court and become a part of the
record in said case; and said notes or any transcript thereof duly certiﬁed by the
reporter of said court shall be admissible in any case in which the same are ma
terial and competent to the issue therein, with same force and effect as depositions
and subject to the same objections so far as applicable; and said original notes, or
the transcript thereof, or any part thereof, may be referred to in any billof ex~
ceptions, and when duly transcribed and certiﬁed, shall be inserted therein on
appeal; and upon demand of any person for aduly certiﬁed transcript of any desig
nated portion of the original notes of testimony in any case, it shall be the duty
of said reporter to transcribe the portion so desi nated and duly certify the same,
upon payment of fees therefore; provided, that w en the reporter taking the notes
in any case in court has ceased to be the ofﬁcial short-hand reporter of that court,
any transcript by him made therefrom and duly certiﬁed by him under oath m a
full, true, and complete transcript of said notes, shall have the same force and
eﬂ'ect as though certiﬁed in the same manner by the oﬁ'icial short-hand reporter
of said court.

SEC. 3778. [Certain state ofﬁcers to pay fees to state treasurer.]-—The
secratary of state, auditor of state, and register of the state land ofﬁce, shall keep
an accurate and particular account of all fees received by them, which shall be
veriﬁed by aﬁidavit, and rendered monthly to the treasurer of state, and they shall
pay the amounts thus received to such treasurer at the end of each month.
SEC. 3779- [J udge’s salary not increased.]—During the term for which
any judge may have been elected or appointed, his salary shall not be increased by
this chapter, except that any judge elected to ﬁll a vacancy shall receive the salary
herein provided.
SEC. 3780. [Salaries paid monthly.]—~The salaries of all oﬂicers mentioned
in this chapter shall be paid in monthly installments at the end of each month,
and shall be in full compensation for all services, except as otherwise expressly
provided in this chapter.

SEC. 3781. [Clerk of district and circuit court.]—The clerk of the
district or circuit court shall be entitled to charge and receive the following fees:
For ﬁling any petition, appeal or writ of error, and docketing the same, one
dollar and ﬁfty cents;
For every attachment, ﬁfty cents;
For every cause tried by jury, one dollar and ﬁfty cents;
For every cause tried by the court, seventy-ﬁve cents:
For every equity cause, one dollar and ﬁfty cents;
For each injunction, or other extraordinary process or order, one dollar.
For all causes continued on application of a. party by afﬁdavit, ﬁfty cents.
For all other continuances, ﬁfteen cents;
For entering any ﬁnal judgment or decree, seventy-ﬁve cents;
For taxing costs, ﬁfty cents;
For issuing execution or other process after judgment or decree, ﬁfty cents;
For ﬁling and properly entering and indorsing each mechanic‘s lien, the same
to be taxed as other costs in case a suit is brought thereon, one dollar;
For certiﬁcates and seal, ﬁfty cents;
. For ﬁling and docketing transcript of judgment from another county or a jus
tice of the peace, ﬁfty cents;
For entering any rule or order, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For issuing writ or order, not including subpoenas, ﬁfty cents;
For issuing commission to take depositions, ﬁfty cents;
For entering sheriff's sale of real estate, ﬁfty cents;
For entering judgment by confession, one dollar;
or entering satisfaction of any judgment; twenll-ﬁve cents;
For all copies of records or papers ﬁled in his _oﬁice, transcripts, and making
complete record, ten cents for each hundred words;
For taking and approving a bond and sureties thereon, ﬁfty cents;
For declaration of intentions by an alien to become a citizen, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For all services on naturaliZation of aliens, including oaths and certiﬁcate, ﬁfty
cents;
In criminal cases, and in all cases in which the state or county is aparty
plaintifff, the same fees for same services as in suits between private parties. When
judgment is rendered against the defendant, the fees shall be collected from such
defendant. Where the state fails, the clerk‘s fees shall be paid by the county;
For making out transcripts in criminal cases appealed to the supreme court,
when the defendant is unable to pay, for each one hundred words. ten cents, to be
paid by the county.

SEC. 3782. [Pensions and b0unties.]-—The clerks of the district court shall
certify under the seal of such court, to all applications and other papers requiring
the certiﬁcate and seal of a court of record to procure pensions, bounties and back
pay for soldiers or other persons entitled thereto, whenever requested by the appli
cant, his agent or attorney, and such clerk shall be entitled to the sum of ten cents
only for such service.
SEC. 3783. In probate matters.]—There shall be such compensation paid
such clerk for is services in probate matters out of the fees collected by him for
probate business, as the board of supervisors may allow.

SEC. 3784. (As substituted by sec. 1, ch. 184, 18th g. a.) [Compensation lim
itedJ—le total amount of compensation of such clerk for all ofﬁcial services shall
not exceed the sum of eleven hundred dollars per annum in counties havinga
population not exceeding ten thousand; the sum of thirteen hundred dollars per
annum in counties having a population in excess of ten thousand but not exceed
ing twenty thousand; nor the sum of ﬁfteen hundred dollars per annum in coun
ties having a population in excess of twenty thousand but not exceeding thirty
thousand. If the fees collected by the clerk in any county in any one year shall
exceed the sums aforestated, the excess shall be paid into the county treasury for
the use of the county fund. In case the aggregate amount of fees so received by
the clerk in any one year is less than the limit of his compensation as herein ﬁred,
and such amount is deemed inadequate compensation by the board of supervisors
they may allowr such additional amount as they may deem just and proper with!!!
the limits herein prescribed. When in the judgment of the board of supervisors
it is necessary to the proper discharge of the duties of the oﬂice, said board may.
upon application of. the clerk, authorize said clerk to employ a deputy or clerk; 5‘
asalary not exceeding the rate of six hundred dollars per annum for the time
actually employed, (As amended by ch. 36, 22d g. a.) [Provided however, that
in all counties havmg a population of twenty-ﬁve thousand, and not over thirty
six thousand, as shown by the last state census, where the board of supervisors
ﬁnd it necessary to have a deputy clerk, deputy treasurer and a deputy auditor.
there shall be allowed as compensation to such deputy clerk, deputy treasurer an
deputy auditor, for their service a sum equal to not more than two-thirds(§)_ll1°
salary or compensatsonof the county clerk, county treasurer and county audit“
of such county, respectively, as the board of supervisors may direct: “Provided,
that in counties havmg a population in excess of forty thousand, the court, 1119011
application of the clerk, may authorize said clerk to appoint, subject to the
approval of the board of supervisors, not more than three deputies and one 01'
more clerks, and determine in its order the number of deputies and clerks;”] the
board of supervisors may allow such compensation to the clerk, deputies and
clerks as they may deem just and proper, but that the sum total of such compen—
sation allowed shall not exceed twenty-ﬁve hundred dollars, and, provided further,
that in counties having a population in excess or forty thousand, the board of
supervisors may allow such compensation to the said clerk, deputdzs and clerks as
they may deem just and proper, but the total compensation shall not exceed the
fees received by such clerk, or the sum of ﬁve thousand dollars, if such fees be less
than said sum. Provided further, that in any county having a population of over
thirty and under forty thousand, and which is within the judicial district in which
the circuit has been divided, the board of supervisors, if they ﬁnd it necessary, may
employ an additional clerk or deputy, for duties in connection with the probate
records, at acompensation not exceeding six hundred dollars per annum. Pro
vided further, that in each county having two county seats, the compensation
of clerk of courts, including the amount paid his deputies and clerks, shall not
exceed three thousand dollars in any one year. Any excess of fees collected to be
paid into the county treasury as above provided. 

Sec. 3785. [Report to s pervisors: fees collectedJ—The clerk of the dis
trict court as such, and as cliark of the circuit court, shall report to the board of
supervisors of his county at each regular session, a full and complete statement of
file lamount of fees received by him, which shall be veriﬁed by the aﬂidavit of such
c er .
SEC. 3786. (As amended by ch. 151, 19th g. a.) [Clerks of courts to pav
over unclaimed fees six months in his hands twrce a year.]—(The clerk
of the district and circuit courts shall, on the ﬁrst Monday in January and July
of each year, pay into the county treasury for the use of the county all fees of
whatever kind in his hands at the date of precedin payment, and still unclaimed
and at the time of so doing he shall take from t e treasurer duplicate receipts
thereof [for], giving the title of the cause and style of the court in which the same
was pending, with the names of the witnesses, jurors, ofﬁcers, or other persons, and
the amount each one is entitled to receive, one of which receipts he shall ﬁle with
the county auditor, who shall charge the amount thereof to the treasurer as so
much county revenue, and shall enter the same upon the proper records as aclaim
allowed, and on demand by the persons entitled to said fees he shall issue county
orders for the amount due each person respectively.)
SEC. 378? [For marriage licenses and fees in probate matters.]—There
shall be paid the clerk of the circuit court the following fees:
or issuing marriage licenses, one dollar;
or all services performed in the settlement of the estate of any decedent, except
Where actions are brought by the administrator or against him, or as may be other
Wlse provided herein, where the value of the estate does not exceed three thousand
dollars, three dollars;
Where such value is between three and ﬁve thousand dollars, ﬁve dollars;
here such Value is between ﬁve and seven thousand dollars, eight dollars;
Where the value exceeds eight thousand dollars, ten dollars;
And in addition to the foregoing, for making a complete record in cases where
t e same is required by law or directed by an order of the court, for every one hun
dred words, ten cents:
‘All of which fees shall be paid into the county treasury.

SECTION 1. [Repeal 0f ch. 115, 18th g. a.]—Be it enacted by the general
assembly of the state cy‘ Iowa: That chapter 115, laws of the eighteenth general
assembly, relating to compensation of sheriffs, be and the same is hereby repealed,
and the followin enacted in lieu thereof:
Sec. 2. [Per dgiem for attending court.]—The sheriﬂ‘ is entitled to charge
and receive the following fees:-—For attending the supreme court, to be paid out
of the amount appropriated for contingent expenses of said court. two dollars per
day.
SEC. 3. [Fee for serving notices.]——For serving a notice and making a return
thereof, for the ﬁrst person served, ﬁfty cents, and for each additional person,
twenty-ﬁve cents.
SEC. 4. [Fee 1131‘ serving warrantJ—For each warrant served two dollars
and the repayment of any amount actually paid by him as necessary expenses in
executing such warrant as sworn to by the sheriff. If service of the warrant
cannot be made, the repayment of all necessary expenses actually paid by the
sheriﬁ’, while attempting in good faith to serve such warrant within this state, and
such reasonable compensation as the board of supervisors may deem just and
eqpitable.

SEC. 5. [Serving Sllbl)(Bll&.j—For‘ serving and returning a subpoena, for each
person, twenty cents. _
SEC. 6. [Summoning-JuryJ—For summoning a grand or trial jury, for each
person served, sixty centstto be paid out of the county treasury; and such sum
shall be in full compensatlon for such service.
SEC. 7. [Jury to assess damages for right of way.]——For summoning a
jury to assess the damages to the owners of lands taken for public improvements.
and attending to them, ﬁve dollars per day. There shall be nothing in this section
so construed that Will allow any sheriﬁ'to make separate charges for different assess
ments, provided they can be done by the same set of appraisers and completed 111
one day of ten hours. .
SEC. 8. [Serving execution and attachment.]—For serving an executIOIl.
attachment. or order for the delivery of personal property, injunction, or any order
of court and making return thereof, two dollars.
SEC. 9. [Per centnm on collections._|--For collecting and paying over money'
On the ﬁrst ﬁve hundred dollars ($500) or fraction thereof, two per cent; and on
excess over ﬁve hundred dollars ($500) and under ﬁve thousand dollars ($5,000)10ne
per cent; on all over ﬁve thousand dollars, ($5,000) one-half per cent.
SEC. 10. [Certiﬁcate Of sale.J—For making and executing a certiﬁcate or
deed for lands sold on execution. 0r a bill of sale for personal property, one dollar
SEC. 11. [For making inventory.]—-For the time necessarily employed in
making an inventory of personal property attached or levied upon, twenty-ti"e
cents per hour.
SEC. 12. [FOP copy 0f paperJ—For copy of paper required by law. made
by him, for each one hundre words, ten cents.

SEC. 13. [Mileage.]-—Mileage in all cases required by law, going and return
inv, per mile, tive cents.
bus. 14. [Taking b0ud.]—-For taking each bond required by law, twenty-ﬁve
cents.
SEC. 15. [For commitment.]—-Each commitment to jail, twenty-ﬁve cents;
discharge from same, twenty-ﬁve cents.
Sac. 16. [Receiving surrender of prisoner.]—For receiving a prisoner
on surrender by bail, fifty cents. _
SEC. 17- [Boarding prisoner.]—For boardin a prisoner, a compensation to
be ﬁxed by the board of supervisors, not less than fty cents per day.
SEC. 18. [\Vashing, etc.]—-F0r waiting on and washing for prisoners, the
sheriff shall have such reasonable compensation _as shall be allowed by the board
of supervisors.
SEC. 19. Attending before judge.l——For attending before any judge with
a gerisoner, one dollar per day. 

SEC. 30. [Attending SBlB.]—For attending sale of property, for each day,
one 0 ar.
SEC. 21. [For conveyin convicts to penitentiary and insane persons
toasylum, (Biol—The sheri , for conveying one or more convicts to either of
the penitentiaries of this state, or any prisoner to any county jail outside of the
county in which said sheriff resides, or any insane person or persons to any insane
asylum in the state, or person or persons to the reform school in the state, shall
be allowed. as full compensation therefore, his necessary traveling expenses, actually
_paid by him, including board and railroad fare for himself and such convicts,
insane, or other prisoners, or any other necessary expenses. and in addition thereto
forty cents per hour for the time necessarily employed in going to and returning
from said prisons, asylums, or reform schools, to be certiﬁed by the oath or adi
davit of such sheriff, accompanied by the proper vouchers to the board of super—
nsors of the county where the convictions took place. Should the sheriff need
any assistance in taking prisoners to the penitentiary or insane persons to the
asylum, the same shall be furnished at the echnse of the county, the compensaﬁ
tion to be ﬁxed by the board of supervisors.

SEC. 22. [Dwelling for jailor.j—The jailor may be furnished a dwelling in
connection with the jail, or as convenient thereto as practicable, in the discretion
of the board of supervisors. _
SEC. 23. [Salary of shepiﬂI]-—The sheriﬂ' is also entitled, for attending district
and circuit courts, and for other servfce for which no compensation is allowed by
law.such annual salary as may be ﬁxed by the board of supervisors, but in no
case less than two hundred dollars ($200) nor more than four hundred dollars
SEC. and the sheriff shall make a full report to the board of supervisors at their
anuary meeting of each year, showinv the full amount of fees received by him
("the Previous year in pursuance of t is act. _
Sm 24- gRepealJ—All acts and parts of acts in conﬂict with this act are
hereby repea ed,

Sec. 3790. [In Cl‘lmlllal cases.]-—In all criminal cases where the prosecution
fails. or where the money cannot be made from the person liable to pay the same.
the facts being certiﬁed by the clerk or justice as far as their knowledge extends.
and veriﬁed by the afﬁdavit of the sheriff, the fees allowed by law in such cases
shall be audited by the county auditor and paid out of the county treasury.

SEC. 3791. (As amended by ch. 15, 21st 9. a.) [Per diem: in session: on com
mittee: mileage.]—[The members of the board of supervisors shall each receiVe
four dollars for each day actually in session, and two dollars and fifty cents per
day, exclusive of mileage, when not in session but employed on committee service,
and six cents per mile for every mile traveled in going to and from the regular
and adjourned sessions of the board and in going to and from the place of per
forming committee service: Provided, that in counties having a population, as
shown by the last preceding census, of ten thousand or less, they shall not
receive compensation for session service for more than twenty days in one year;
and in counties having a population of more than ten thousand but less than
twenty~three thousand, for mere than thirty-ﬁve days of such service in one year;
and in counties having a population of twenty-three thousand or OVer, for more
than forty days of such service in one yearJ; [and in counties having a population
of forty thousand or over, not more than fifty days in one year.

SEC. 3792. The recorder shall be entitled to charge and receive the following
ees:
For recording each instrument containing four hundred words, ﬁfty cents;
For every additional hundred words, or fraction thereof, ten cents.
SEO. 3793. (As substituted by § 11, ch. 184, 18111 g. a.) Each county treasurer
shall receive for his services the following compensation:
_ 1. Three-fourths of one per cent of all money collected by him as taxes due any
incorporated city or town, to be paid out of the same.
2. Three per cent of all taxes collected by him for all other tax funds, to be
paid out of the county treasury.
3. For each certiﬁcate of purchase issued for land sold for non-payment of taxes,
twenty cents.
4:1 For paying money into the state treasury when required by law, or the
auditor of state, such compensation as the board of supervisors shall allow, not
exceeding one-fourth of one per cent on the amount so paid, which allowance
shall he paid by the county.
0.. When the aggregate amount of compensation allowed by this and the next section exceeds twelve hundred dollars in any one year in counties where taxes are
collected by township collectors, or ﬁfteen hundred dollars in counties having no
township collectors, the excess shall be paid into the county treasury; but when
in the judgment of the board of supervisors it is necessary for the proper dis
charge of the duties of the ofﬁce, said board may, upon application of the treasurer,
authorize said treasurer to employ a deputy, or clerk, at a salary not exceeding the
rate of six hundred dollars per annum for the time actually employed; provided,
that in counties where population does not exceed ten thousandt e salary shall
not exceed thirteen hundred dollars in any case, and the board shall not allow it to
exceed three hundred dollars clerk hire in such counties; and provided, that in
counties having more than thirty thousand population. the board of supervisors
may rant such additional compensation for treasurer, deputy, or clerk hire as they
may eem just and proper.]

Sec. 3794. [To give information of amount of taxes due from any
person.]—The county treasurer shall, if applied to by letter enclosing thirty cents'
value in postage stamps, asking for information of the amount of taxes upon any
speciﬁed parcel or parcels of land in his county, answer the same correctly by
mail, giving direct answers to all the inquiries in such letter respecting the amount
and interest of the unpaid taxes as the same appears from the tax books in his
ofﬁce. If the total of such land speciﬁed in any one letter exceeds three hundred
and twenty acres, then such treasurer is not bound to answer such letter unless it
contains, besides the thirty cents above provided, ten cents in addition for every
one hundred and sixty acres when the total acres speciﬁed in such letter exceed the
said three hundred and twenty acres; but the aggregate fees thus charged shall in no
case exceed the sum of ﬁfty cents; and upon the return to such treasurer of the letter
or a copy thereof so sent to him, with the amount due as shown by such letter, such
treasurer shall ay such taxes and return a receipt therefore by mail.
SEC. 3795. [Penalty for failure. —Any treasurer who shall neglect for
twenty days after the receipt of any suc letter, with money inclosed as aforesaid,
to ansWer the same fully as required in the preceding section, or who shall directly
or indirectly receive or be concerned in receiving any greater compensation for the
service mentioned in the preceding section than is therein provided, shall forfeitto
the person aggrieved, for each oﬁ'ense the sum of ﬁfty dollars, which may be
recovered in a civil action in any court having jurisdiction.
See. 3_796. HRender account of money received as compensation to
supervrsors. -—-The county treasurer shall enter in a book kept for that purpose,
all monies received by him for services rendered, designating for what the same“
was received, and shall .render an account veriﬁed by afﬁdavit to the board of
supervisors at each session thereof, stating fully all money so received and from
what source derived. and any excess to which he would be entitled under the pre
ceding section over and above the sum therein limited, shall be paid into the county
treasury.

SEC. 3797. [County auditor.]——The county auditor shall be entitled to charge
and receive the followrng fees:
For recording each bond required to be by him recorded, ﬁfty cents;
For transfers made in the transfer books, for each deed, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For issuing certiﬁcate of redemption of land sold for taxes, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For each Certlﬁcate Issued by the treasurer for lands sold for non-payments
taxes, ﬁfteen cents, _
SEC. 37 98. _(As substituted by ch. 184, sec. 3, 18th g. a.) [Compensation 0f
auditor limited.]- The total compensation of the auditor in any one year shall
not exceed the sum 0‘ twelve hundred dollars, inclusive of fees; but when,1n the
judgment of the board of_ supervisors, it is necessary for the proper discharges
the duties of the ofﬁce, Bald board may. upon application of the auditor, authorize
said auditor to employ a deputy 0r clerk at a salary not exceeding the rate of 51X
hundred dollars per annum; Provided, That in counties of more than twéznty-ﬁve
iousand population, the board of supervisors may grant such additional compen
sation to the auditor, deputy, or clerks as they deem it just and proper.
[Last census to determine populationJ—It shall be the duty of the board
of supervisors, in ﬁxing the compensation of the ofﬁcers as provided in this act to
take the latest state or national ofﬁcial census, as their guide in so doing.
[Each oﬂicer keep record of fees and report to board of supervisors]
It is hereby made the duty of the county auditor, the county treasurer and the
clerk of the district and circuit courts, in each county of the state to keep a com
plete and accurate account of all the fees charged and collected by them as now
provided by law; which account shall be made and kept as a permanent record of
the oiﬁce; and it is hereby made the further duty of each of the oﬁicers therein
speciﬁed, to make a report of such fees to the board of supervisors, at each regular
session of said board, veriﬁed by oath or aﬁirmation, a summ of which shall be
spread upon the minutes of said board and made a part of t 6 record. If any
oﬂicer shall neglect or refuse to make such report, as required by this section, it
shall be the duty of the board to employ an expert to examine the books, papers
and accounts of such ofﬁcer, and to make such report, the expense therefore being
charged to the delinriuent ofﬁcer, and collectible upon his oliicial bond.
A county is under no egal obligation to reimburse an auditor for money paid by im fur ser
vices oia deputy. Benton 0. Decatur County, 36 Iowa, 504. '
SEC. 3799. The coroner is entitled to charge and receive the following
ees:
dlli‘ora view of each body and taking and returning an inquest on same, ﬁve
0 am;
For a view of each body and examination without inquest, three dollars;
For issuing subpmna, warrant. or order for a jury, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For each mile traveled to and returning from an examination or inquest, ten
cents;
'Which fees shall be paid out of the county treasury when they cannot be ob
tained from the estate of the deceased;
For all other services, the same fees as are allowed sheriﬂ's in similar cases, to be
paid in like manner.
SEC. 3800. (Amended by 071.25, 16th . a.) The county surveyor is entitled
to charge and receive the following ees: _
For each day’s service actually performed in travelling to and from the place
where any survey is to be made, and for making the same and return thereof,
[four] dollars;
For certiﬁed copy of the plat or ﬁeld-notes, ﬁfty cents.

SEC. 3801. Notaries publie shall be entitled to charge and receive the
allowing fees;
For every protest of a bill or note, seventy-ﬁve cents;
or l"*é'ﬁstcring any protest, ﬁfty cents;
Flgr being present at a demand, tender, or deposit, and noting the same, ﬁfty
0811 ;
For administering an oath, ﬁve cents;
For certifying to the same under his ofﬁcial seal, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For certiﬁcate under seal, twenty-ﬁve cents;
Fpr other services, the same/feesasiare allowed justices~of~the peace for Similar
services.

Sec. 3802. Each sealer of weights and measures shall receive the fol
lowing fees:
For sealing and marking every baem, ten cents;
For sealing and marking measures of extension at the rate of ten cents per yard,
not to exceed ﬁfty cents for any one measure;
For sealing and marking every weight, ﬁve cents;
For sealing and markin liquid and dry measure, ﬁve cents for each measure;
He shall also be entitled to a reasonable compensation for making weights and
measures conform to the standard in his possession.
SEC. 3803. _The inspector of lumber and shingles shall receive:
F0r inspecting and measuring lumber, for each one thousand feet, board meas
ure. ﬁfteen cents;
For inspecting shingles for each thousand, ﬁfteen cents.

SEC. 3804. Justices of the peace shall be entitled to charge and receive
the following fees:
For doeketing each case in any action, except in garnishment proceedings, ﬁfty
cents:
For issuing each original notice, ﬁfty cents;
For issuing attachment or order for the delivery of property, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For drawing and approving bond when required in any case, ﬁfty cents;
For entering judgment by confession after the suit brought, ﬁfty cents;
For entering judgment by confession not on suit brought, one dollar;
For entering judgment by default, or on a plea of guilty, ﬁfty cents;
For entering judgment when contested, ﬁfty cents;
For additional when a jury is called, one dollar;
For issuing venire for jury, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For each subpoena in civil cause, when demanded, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For each oath or afﬁrmation, except in proceedings connected with suits before
him, ﬁve cents;
For each continuance at the request of either party, ﬁfty cents; »
For setting aside each judgment by default, ﬁfty cents;
For each information and aﬂidavit, ﬁfty cents;
For each execution, renewal of execution, or warrant of any kind, ﬁfty cents;
For each bond or recognition, ﬁfty cents;
For each mittimus or order of discharge, ﬁfty cents;
For each oﬂicial certiﬁcate or acknowledgment, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For making and certifying transcript, ﬁfty-cents;
For trial of all causes, civil or criminal, for each six hours or fraction thereof,
one dollar;
For all money collected and paid over without suit, ﬁve per cent; and for all mosey
collected and paid over after suit brought without judgment, two per cent, Whlc
shall be added to the costs.

SEC. 3805. Constables shall be entitled to charge and receive the follow
in ees:
iior serving any notice or civil process on each person named therein, ﬁfty cents;
For copy thereof when required, ten cents;
For serving attachment or order for the delivery of property, ﬁfty cents;
For traveling fees, going and returning, per mile, ﬁve cents;
For summoning a jury, including mileage, one dollar;
For attending the same on trial, for each calender day, one dollar;
For serving execution, besides mileage ﬁfty cents;
For advertising and selling property, seventy-ﬁve cents;
For advertising without selling, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For return of execution when no levy is made, ten cents;
For serving each subpoena, besides mileage, ﬁfteen cents;
For posting up each notice required by law, ﬁfteen cents;
For serving each warrant of any kind, seventy-ﬁve cents;
For attending each trial in a criminal case, for each calendar day, one dollar;
For serving each mittimus or order of release, besides mileage thirty cents;
For all money collected on execution and paid over except costs, ﬁve per cent,
which shall constitute part of the costs.

SEC. 3806. [In criminal cases.]—-The fees contemplated in the two preceding sections, in criminal cases shall be audited and paid out of the county treasury in
any case where the prosecution fails, or where such fees cannot be made from the
pggon liable to pay the same, the facts being certiﬁed by the justice and veriﬁed by
a avit.

SEC. 3807. [Oilicers seizing intoxicating liquors.]——A constable or other
ogicerdwho serves any warrant for the seizure of intoxicating liquors shall be
a owe :
For such service, one dollar;
For the removal and custody of such liquor, his reasonable expenses;
For the destruction of such liquor under the order of the court, his reasonable
expenses and one dollar.
For posting and leaving notices in such cases, one dollar.

Sec. 3808. The township trustees shall receive:
For each day’s service of eight hours necessarily engaged in oﬁicial business, to
be aid out of the county treasury, to each trustee, two dollars;
or each day engaged in assessing damages done by trespassing animals, one dol
lar Ptr day, each, to be paid as are other costs in such cases;
, at when acting as fence viewers, or viewing or locating any ditch or drain, or
"1 any other case where provision is made for their payment otherwise, they shall
M be paid out of such treasury.

[When acting as fence viewers, oriii
locating any ditch or drain, or in any other place where provision is not made for
their payment out of the county treasury, their fees shall be 2 [two] dollars per
day each, and in the ﬁrst instance be paid by the party requiring their services,
and they shall append to their report of the proceedings a statement thereof, and
therein shall direct who shall pay said fees, and in what sums respectively, and
the party having so advanced any such fees may have his action therefore against
the party so awarded to pay the same, unless within ten days after demand by the
party entitled, the same shall be reimbursed to him.

SEC. 3809. (As amended by 0/1. 61, 16th g. a.) The township clerk Shall
receive:
For each day of eight hours necessarily engaged in official business, where no
other compensation or mode of payment is provided, to be paid from the county
treasury, two dollars;
For all money coming into his hands by virtue of his oﬁice [aside from money
received from his predecessor in ofﬁce], ﬁve per cent;
For ﬁling each application for a drain or ditch, ﬁfty cents;
For recording each person’s mark or brand for animals, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For making out and certifying the papers in any appeal taken from an assessment
by the trustees of damages done by trespassing animals, such additional compensa
tion in such cases as the board of supervisors may deem reasonable and allow._
SEC. 3810. Each township assessor shall receive for each day of eight
hours necessarily engaged in the discharge of his ofﬁcial duties, to be paid out of
the county treasury, two dollars.

SEC. 3811. Jurors shall receive the following fees:
For each day’s serVIce or attendance in courts of record, two dollars, and for
each mile traveled from his residence to the place of trial, the sum of ten cents;
For each day’s service before a justice of the peace, one dollar;
No mileage shall be allowed jurors before justices, nor to talesmen;
Jurors’ fees in justice‘s courts shall be taxed as part of the costs;
Immediately after the adjournment of each term of a court of record. the clerk
thereof shall certify to the county auditor a, list of the jurors with the number 0f
days“ attendance and mileage to which each one is entitled.
SEC. 3812. (As re-enacted by ch. 39. 16th g. a.) [Fees taxed as part of costs}
For every case_tried in a court of record by jury, there shall be taxed as a part Of
the costs as ajury fee the sum of six dollars, which shall be collected as other
costs and paid into the county treasury by the clerk, who shall report the same to
the board of supervisors at each regular session thereof, who shall cause the same
to be charged to the treasurer.

SEC. 3813. Every appraiser or commissioner appomted or selected to
appraise the damages caused by taking private property for public use, shall
receive the same compensation as jurors in courts of record, but when called to
ﬂppihaise property taken on judicial process, they shall receive twenty-ﬁve cents
per our.
SEC. 3814. (As omende by ch. 62, 16 g. a.) Witnesses in any court of
record [except in the police courts], shall receive for each day’s attendance, one
dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents; [in the police courts, witnesses shall receive for each
days attendance, the same fees and mileage as are allowed before justices of the
peace.

efore a justice of the peace, ﬁfty cents for each day;
Mileage for actual travel per mile each way, ﬁve cents;
An attorney, juror, or ofﬁcer, who is in habitual attendance on the court for the
term at which he is examined as a witness, shall be entitled to but one day’s attend
ance.
(As amanded by ch. 62, 16th 9. a.) [Experts.]—Witnesses called to testify
("115’ to an Opinion founded on special study or experience in any branch of science,
Otto make scientiﬁc or professional examinations and state the result thereof,
shall receive additional compensation, to be ﬁxed by the court with reference to
lie value of the time employed and the degree of learning or skill required;
rouded that such additional compensation so ﬁxed shall not exceed four dollars
Per day while so employed]
the statute is propely chargeable as part of the coats, even if the case
of a day when no other case is tried upon the same day. The State
[Criminal cascs.]—For attending before the grand or trial jury, or court, in
criminal cases Where the defendant is adjuged not guilty, the fees above provided
f("intending the district or justice’s court shall be paid by the county, upon a.
geglltlllggte of the clerk or justice showing the amount of service to which they are
ii i 

SEC. 3815. suryJ—[Each justice of the
lime shall, on the ﬁrst Monday in January and July, each year, pay into the
ltlllllly treasury for the use of the county all fees of whatsoever kind in his hands
a the date ofprmeding Preceding] payment and still unclaimed, and at the time
° W10ng he shall take mm the treasurer duplicate receipts therefore, giving the title of the cause, with the names of the witnesses,jurors, ofﬁcers or other rsons,
and the amount each one is entitled to receive, one of which receipts he s all ﬁle
with the county auditor, who shall charge the amount thereof to the treasurerss
so much county revenue, and shall enter the same u on the proper records ass
claim allowed, and on demand by the persons entitles to said fees he shall issue
county orders for the amount due each person respectively]
SEC. 3816. [Penalty for failure.]—Any failure to pay over to the county
treasurer witness fees as contemplated by this title, is a misdemeanor, and shall be
prosecuted as provided by law.
Sec. 3817. [When witness fees are paid by party or countyJ—Wllen the
county or any party has paid the fees of any Witness, and the same is afteer
collected from the adverse party, the person or county so paying the same shall,
upon the roduction of the receipt of such witness or other satisfactory evidence,
he entitle to such fee, whether it be in the hands of the justice or clerk, or has
been paid into the county treasury.
SEC. 3818. (As substituted by ch. 207, 18th (7. a. IEWitnesses subpoenaed
at expense of_ the county only on order 0 t e court]—{ In no crim
inal case shall Witnesses for the defense be subpoenaed at the expense of the county,
except upon the order of the court or judge before whom the case is pending; then
only u on a satisfactory showing that the witnesses are material and necessary for
the de 'ense, and the board of supervisors shall in no case audit or allow any claim
for witness fees, for the defendant in criminal cases, except upon order or judg
ment of court or judge thereof. And such order may be made at the time of trial
or other disposition of the case, and upon such showing as the court may require

SEC. 3819. [Where no other_fees are ﬂxed.]—An oﬂicer legally called
0"" I], '1 ' '
on to perform any of the followrng services, in cases where no fees have been
ﬁxed theretor, shall be entitled to receive:
For drawmg and certifying an aliidavit, or giving a certiﬁcate not attached to
any other writing, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For afﬁxing his ofﬁcial seal to any paper, whether the certiﬁcate be under seal
or not, thirty-ﬁve cents; _
For inalriné,7 out a transcript of any public papers or records under his control.
for the use 0 a private person or corporation, or recording articles of incorpom'
tion, for every one hundred words, ten cents.
Sec. 3820. [For committing persons to jail: carriage hireJ—E'e'l'
oﬂicer or person who shall arrest any person with a warrant or order issu by
any court or otIicer, 01‘ Wh_0_shall be required to convey a prisoner from 8 Place
distant from the county Jail_to such jail on an order of commitment, sh. I
allowed to charge_as fees, which shall be collectible the same as other fees 1“
criminal cases, besnies the fees allowed by law, whatever sums such oﬁcer or person
shall actually and necessarily pay for carriage hire in so conveying such Person
jail.

SEC. 3821. [For taking up estrays.j—Any person taking up an estray
horse, mule, 'ack or jenny, ﬁfty cents;
For every end of neat cattle, twenty-ﬁve cents;
For all other kinds of animals, ﬁfteen cents;
For a pointing the appraisers, making the necessary entry, certiﬁcate and
return, t re justice shall receive ﬁfty cents.
Sec. 3822. [Trespassing animals, ]—In all cases where services shall be
performed by any ofﬁcer or person in respect to estrays or trespassing animals,
the following fees or compensation shall be allowed: to the justice of the peace
for administering the oath to the taker-up or ﬁnder, making an entry thereof,
with the report of the appraisers, and making and transmitting a certiﬁcate
.rl thereof to the clerk of the district court,_ﬁfty cents; to the clerk for taking proof
of the ownership of the property and granting certiﬁcate of the same, twenty
1' live cents; for registering each certiﬁcate transmitted to him by the justice as
aforesaid, ten cents; for advertisements, including the newspaper publication,
i ﬁfty cents; to the sheriff on account of sales made by him in pursuance of
r, chapter three, of title eleven, four per cent on the amount; to the constable, for
i each warrant served on appraisers, twenty-ﬁve cents; to each appraiser, twenty
ﬁve cents; all which said cost and charges, with the exception of the justice's for
granting a certiﬁcate of ownership, and the sheriff ’s commission, shall be paid by
the taker-up to the person entitled thereto, whenever the service shall be per
formed; the printer of the county paper f0r publishing the notice shall receive
the price of his published or ordinary advertising rates; in all cases where it shall
henecessary to make publication in a newspa r, the taker-up or ﬁnder, as the
0889 may he, shall be required to deposit wit_ the clerk of the district court, a
sum of money suﬂicient to pay the same, previous to the publication thereof; all
Which costs and charges shall be reimbursed to the taker-up or ﬁnder in all cases
Where restitution of the property shall be made to the owner, or the same shall be
delivered to the sheriff to be sold, or where money or bank notes shall be paid into
the county treasury, in addition to the reward to which such person may be
entitled for such taking up or ﬁnding as aforesaid. _
Sec. 3823. [Public printer for publishing estray notices.]——The public
printer shall receive for each estray notice published, a sum agreed upon by the
secretary of state, not, however, exceeding thirty cents for each insertion; and
When the appraised value of the estray exceeds ﬁfteen dollars, the ﬁnder shall pay
ihtjustice a sum suﬁicient to pay the clerk's fee, postage, and the cost of publish
mg such notice. If more than one animal is taken up at the same time, they
i shall be included in one entry and advertisement, and no additional fees shall be
required or allowed in such case, and said clerk shall subscribe for one copy of
. Snell paper, to be paid for out of the county treasury. which paper shall be ﬁled
and preserved in the oﬁice of said clerk.
SEC. 3824. [For laying out public highways._]—The following fees shall
i aid persons engaged in laying out and changing highways:
‘ ‘Ommissioners for each day, two dollars;
burveyor for each day, four dollars;
hain carriers, markers, and other assistants, for each day, one dollar and ﬁfty
cents. If the hi hway extends into more than one county, such expenses when
to'ildjudged shallgbe paid by the several counties in proportion to the length of time
occupied on the highway in each county. _
SEC. 3825. Fommissioners of insanitvg—The commissioners of insanity
shall be allowe at the rate of three dollars per ay each, for all the time actually
t‘Jllployedin the duties of their ofﬁce. They shall also be allowed their necessary
and actual expenses, not including charges for board. The clerk, in addition to
What he is entitled to as commissioner, shall be allowed one-half as much more for
making the required record entries in all cases of inquest and of meetings of the
board for any purpose, and for the ﬁling of any papers required to be ﬁled. He
shall also be allowed twenty-ﬁve cents for each notice or process given or issued under
seal as herein required. The examining physician shall be entitled to the same com
pensation as a commissioner, and to mileage at the rate of ﬁve cents per mile each
way. The sheriﬁ’ shall be allowed for his personal services in conveyinv a patient
to the hospital and returning therefrom, at the rate of three dollars perday for the
time necessary and actually employed, and mileage the same as is allowed him in
other cases, and for other 'services the same fees as for like services in other cases.
Witnesses shall be entitled to the same fees as witnesses in the circuit court. The'
compensation and expenses provided for above, shall be allowed and paid out of
the county treasury in the usual manner. \Vhenever the commissioners issue their
warrant for the admission of a person to the hospital, and funds to pay the expenses
thereof are needed in advance, they shall estimate the probable expense of con
veying such person to the hospital, including the necessary assistance, and not
including the compensation allowed the Sheriff, and on such estimate, certiﬁed by
the clerk, the auditor of the county shall issue an order on the county treasurer
for the amount as estimated in favor of the sheriff or other person intrusted with
the execution of such warrant; the sheriff or other person executing such warrant,
shall accompany his return with a statement of the expenses incurred, and the
excess or deﬁciency may be deducted from or added to his compensation, as the
case may be. If funds are not so advanced, such expenses shall be certiﬁed and
paid in the manner above prescribed on the return of the warrant. When the
commissioners order the return of a patent, compensation and expenses shall be in
like manner allowed.

SEC. 2- [Treasurer to ﬁle statement with county auditor-J—Each
county treasurer shall .make a certiﬁed statement of all unclaimed fees in his hands
at the time of the taking eﬂ'ect of this act, showing the title of the cause, style of
the court. name of the individual, and the amount to which each one is entitled,
and ﬁle the same With the county auditor. who shall charge the treasurer in the
county fund With the aggregate amount so certiﬁed, and place the same on the
roper record as a claim allowed, and issue county orders therefore, upon demand by
the parties entitled thereto.

SEC. 1. [R_epeal.]—Be it enacted by the general assembly of thestm Qf
Iowa: That section 1, chapter 92, laws of the seventeenth general assembly, be
and is hereby repealed.

SEC. 2. [Compensation.]—That the trustees of state institutions, members of
visiting committees to the hospitals for the insane, and regents of the state univer
sity shall receive as their compensation four ($4) dollars per day for each and every
day actually employed in the discharge of their duties, and the actual and neces
sary expense incurred while so engaged; but in no case shall the amount allowed
for expenses exceed ﬁve (5) cents per mile by the nearest traveled route necessarily
traveled in such business.
SEC. 2- [Construction.]—This act shall not be construed to allow trustees to
receive compensation for a longer time than is now permitted by law.
hSElf- 3- [RapealJ—All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act are
ere y repeale .
SEC. 3826. (As amended by ch. 92, 17th 9. a.) [Visiting committee to hospi
tal for the insane.]—The visitin committee shall be allowed [four] dollars per
day for the time taken in visting the hospital for the insane, and mileage at the
rate of ﬁve cents per mile each way. The disbursing ofﬁcer of each hospital for
the insane shall pay the per diem and mileage allowed such visiting committee,
and each member of such visiting committee shall certify under oath to such
gishulrséng ofﬁcer the number of days he has served and the number of miles
rave e .
SEC. 3827. [Messengers sent for election returns.]—Messengers sent for
the-returns of elections shall be paid ten cents a mile going and returning, to be
audited and paid from the state or county treasury. as the case may be.
SEC. 3828. [Marriagesz solemnizationJ—Any person authorized to sol
emnize marriage. is entitled to charge two dollars for oﬁiciating in each case, and
making return thereof.
SEC. 3829. (As amended by ch. 91, 17 g. a.) [Attorney appointed to defend
cnminals.]—An attorney appointed by a court to defend a person indicted for
anv oii‘ense, is entitled to receive from the county treasury the following fees:
‘or cause of murder l twenty-ﬁve dollars];
For felony [ten dollars];
For misdemeanor, ﬁve dollars; _
_ any attorney selected by a peace oﬁicer, for appear-mg and prosecuting before a
Justice of the peace a prosecution for selling intoxrcating liquors, ﬁVe dollars.

Sec. 3830. An attorney cannot in such case be compelled to follow a case to
another county or into the supreme court, and if he does so, may recover an
enlarged compensation, to be graduated on a scale corresponding to the price above
allowed.

SEC. 3831. [Only one attorney.J—Only one attorney in any one case shall
receive the compensation above contem lated, nor is be entitled to this compensa
tion until he ﬁles his afﬁdavit, that he has not, directly or indirectly, received any
compensation for such service from any source.
SEC. 3832. [For publication of legal notices.]—In all cases where publica
tion of legal notices of any kind are required or allowed by law, the person or
ofﬁcer desiring such publication shall not be required to pay more than one dollar
per square of ten lines of brevier tpye, or its equivalent. for the ﬁrst insertion, and
ﬁfty cents per square for each subsequent insertion; and any person desiring such
publication, who shall have tendered such notice to the editor, proprietor or person
conducting some newspaper published weekly or oftener in such county, having the
largest circulation, and has oﬁ‘ered to pay for the publication of the same attho
rate herein named, and in case the publication of such notice is refused at the price
above ﬁxed, then the oﬂicer or person desiring such publication shall procure the
insertion of such notice in the newspaper nearest the county seat of such county
having a general circulation that will publish such notice at the rate herein pro
vided; which publication shall in all respects have the same eii'ect in law and
equity as if such notice had been published in the county where such action was
commenced or sale is to take place. And in all cases of publication of notices lIl
connection with commencement of actions in court, or sales upon execution, the
plaintifff may designate the newspaper published within the county in which 811611
notice shall be published.

SEC. 3833. [For printing delinquent tax list.]--THe compensation for printing the delinquent tax list, shall be at a rate not exceeding twenty cents for
each tract of real property advertised for sale; and in case there is no newspaper
published in the county where such lands lie, then the treasurer shall cause the
publication to be made in the nearest newspaper having acirculation in such
county, prov1ded that no newspaper shall be considered as one of general circula
tion unless it has two hundred regular weekly subscribers.
SEC. 3834. [Arbitrators.]-—The compensation of arbitrators shall be, for each
dav actually and necessarily spent in the discharge of their duty, two dollars, or
such other sum as may be agreed upon by the parties in interest. The fees of
referees acting under a submission made by or agreed to by the parties in some
pending in a court of record, shall be ﬁxed by the court or judge and taxed 851*
art of the costs Ill the case.
See. 3835. [DepOSltlons.]—Any oﬂicer or person taking depositions is author
ized to charge therefore at the rate of ten cents per hundred words, exclusive of the
'ertiﬁcate. . h
0 SEC. 3836. [Receipt f0!“ fees paidJ—Evary person charging fees shall. If
required by the Person paying them, give him a receipt therefore, setting forth the
items and the date of each.

Sec. 3837. [Bill of particularsij—When no other provision is made on the
subject, the party requiring any serv1ce shall pay the fees therefore upon the same
being rendered, and a bill of particulars being presented if required.

SEC. 3838. [Putting up advertisementsJ—h all cases where an ofﬁcer in
the discharge of his duty is required to set up an advertisement, he shall, when
not otherwise provided, he allowed twenty-ﬁve cents, and if an advertisement is
required to be published in a neWSpaper, the money therefore shall be paid by the
party and may be taxed in the bill of costs.

Sec. 3839. LOlhcer-s to keep list of fees posted up.]—Every ofﬁcer en titled
to fees, shall keep posted up in his ofﬁce a fair table thereof on pain of forfeiture
of two dollars per day, for the beneﬁt of thecouuty, for each day he fails to keep
such table of fees thus posted up.
SEC. 3840. [Penalty for taking more than allowed.J—Any oﬂicer who
willfully takes higher or other fees than are allowed by law, is guilty of a misde
lIiiirianor, and may be ﬁned therefore a sum not less than ten nor more than ﬁfty
o lars.
A contr

SEC. 3841. [\Vhen paid by a, county,]-Where costs are paid by a county
other than the one where the olfense was committed, the amount of such costs
shall be deemed a charge in favor of such county and against the one in which the
oﬁense was committed, and may be recovered by an action in any court having
'nris iction.
J Where the di

Sec. 3842. [When fees must be paid in advance.]—No ofﬁcer or other
person mentioned in this title, is entitled to any of the fees mentioned herein in
advance, where the same grows out of any criminal prosecution. But in all other
cases, except where the fees or compensation is payable by the state or county, or
when the orders, judgments or decrees of courts or justices of the peace are to he
entered or performed, or their writs executed, the ofﬁcer performing any of the
Services named in this chapter, is entitled to his fees in advance if he demand them.
After the expiration of sixty days from the rendition of a ﬁnal judgment not ap
peeled, removed or reversed, the clerk of the court or a justice of the peace in
Whose oiliec the judgment is entered, may, and on demand of any party entitled to
any part thereof shall, issue a fee bill for all costs of such judgment, which shall
have the same force and effect as an execution issued by such ofﬁcer, and shall be
Served and executed in the same manner.

SEC. 3843. [When fees are payable by state or county.]—In all cases
where fees or compensation as distinguished from a certain and ﬁxed salary, are,
by the provisions of this title to be paid any oﬁicer or other person outof the
county or state treasury, no part of the same shall be audited or paid, until apar
ticular account has been ﬁled in the auditor’s ofﬁce of the county or state, veriﬁed
by afﬁdavit and showing clearly for what services such fees or compensation are
claimed and when the same was rendered.

Sec. 3844. [Supervisorsto furnish ofﬁcers with ofﬁce, fuel and sta
tionery.]— The board of supervisors shall furnish the clerk of the district
and circuit court, sheriff, recorder, treasurer, auditor and county superintendent,
with oﬁices‘ at the county seat, together with fuel, lights, blanks, books and sta
tionery necessary and proper to enable them to dischar e the duties of their
respective ofﬁces; but in no case shall any of such ofﬁcers e permitted to occupy
an ofﬁce also occupied by a practicing attorney.

SEC. 1. [No greater fee than prescribed by this act shall be col
lected.]——Be it enacted by the qeneral assembly of the state q” Iowa: That in any
action upon a written contract for the payment of money, made after the taking
effect of this act, in which it is an agreement to pay to an attorney’s or collection
fee, no greater recovery for attorney’s fee shall be had against the maker of such
contract than is provided for in section two hereof, anything in said contract con
tained to the contrary notwithstanding.
SEC. 2. [Limiting fees on contract.]—When judgment is recovered on a
written contract, made after the taking effect of this act, containing an agreement
to pay an attorney's fee, there shall be an attorney’s fee allowed by the court and
taxed as a part Of the costs. except as provided in sections three and four hereof;
but in no case shall the amount allowed to be greater than the following, to-Witi
For (tihe ﬁrst two hundred dollars, or fraction thereof, ten per cent of the amount
found us;
For the excess of two hundred dollars, up to ﬁve hundred dollars, ﬁve per cent;
For the excesss of ﬁve hundred dollars, up to one thousand dollars, three per
cent;
For all in excess of one thousand dollars, one per cent.
Provided, that_the plaintifff shall be entitled to recOVer not to exceed one-half
the above collection fee in case payment is made after commencement of suit and
before return day. And in case of payment before judgment, and after return
day, the plaintiﬁ may recover not to exceed three-fourths of the said amounts, and
have judgment therefore, and no fee shall be allowed if suit has not been com
menced or expense incurred.
SEC. 3. gCOIlI't to be satisﬁed by afﬁdavitJ—Before any allowance 0f
attorney's 66 Shall be made by the court, the court shall be fully satisﬁed by 855'
davit of the attorney engaged in the cause, which afﬁdavit shall be ﬁled with the
original papers, that there has been and there is no agreement, expressed or
implied, between the attorney and his client, or between the attorney and any
other person, except a practicing attorney engaged with him as attorney in the
cause, for any division or sharing of the fee to be taxed; and no fee shall be taxed
eXcept in favor of a regular attorney, and in compensation for services actually
rendered in the cause.
SEO- 4. [Court shall be SﬂtiSﬁed._]—-—Bef0re any attorney's fee shall be allowed
by the court, the court shall be fully satisﬁed that the defendant, if he be a resi
dent of the county, and the suit is not aided by an attachment, had information
ofthe whereabouts of the contract, and had a reasonable opportunity to pay the
same before suit was brought. But this provision shall not apply when the con
tract is by its terms payable at a particular place, and the maker of the contract
has not tendered the money due at the place named in the contract.

SEC. 1. (Chapter 186, acts 20th general assembly amended.) Be it enatcted by
Ike general assembly of the state of Iowa: That section 3 of chapter 186 of the acts of
the twentieth general assembly be and the same is hereby amended by adding to said section the following: Provided, that each‘bond so issued shall express on its face,
that the same shall only be paid by taxes assessed, levied and collected on the lands
within the district so designated and numbered and for the beneﬁt of which dis
tﬂct such bond v'vas issued; and provided, further, that in no case shall any tax be
levied or collected for the payment of such bond or bonds, or the interest thereon,
on any pro rty outside of the district so numbered, designated and beneﬁted.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the qeneral assembly of the state of Iowa,- Thai; section 1, chapter 92, laws of the seventeenth general assembly be and is hereby
repealed.
Sec. 2. [Expenses trustees and visiting committeesJ—Thst the trustees
of state institutions, members of visting committees to the hospitals for the insane
and regents of the state university shall receive as their compensation four 2%)
dollars per day for each and every day actually employed in the discharge oft eir
duties, and the actual and necessary expenses incurred while so engaged; but in no
case shall the amount allowed for expenses exceed ﬁve (5) cents per mile by the
nearest traveled route necessarily traveled in such business.

