TO ESTABLISH .:!',·CODE OF· CIVIL :PRACTICE 
Be it enacted by the General AssemlJ/;y 
SEC. 1. Remedies in civil cases in the Courts of this State,
are divided into two classes-1st, Actions ; 2d, Special Proceedings. 
SEC. 2. A civil action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice, by one party against another, for the enforcement or pro­
tection of a private right, or the redress or prevention of a private
wrong. It may also be brought, in certain cases, for the recevery
of a penalty or a forfeiture. 
SEC. 3. Every other remedy in a civil case is a special pro­
ceeding. 
SEC. 4. The forms of all actions and suits heretofore existing
are abolished ; · and hereafter, there shall be bnt one form of ac­ 
tion for the enforcement or protection of private rights, and the
redress or prevention of private wronge,~hich shall be called a 
civil action. 
SEC. 5. In such action, the party complaining is known as the
plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 
SEC. 6. The proceedings in a civil action may be ot two kinds;
1, Ordinary-2, Equitable. 
SEc. 7. The plaintifff may prosecute his action by equitable 
proceedings, in all caaes where Courts of' Equity, before the adop­ 
tien of this Code, had jurisdiction; and must so proceed in all
cases where such jurisdiction was exclusive. 
SEC. 8. In all other cases, except in this Code otherwise pro­
vided, the plaintifff must prosecute his action by ordinary pro~eed­
ings. 
SEC. 9. An error of the plaintifff as to the kind of proceedings
adopted shall not cause the abatement or dismissal of the action,
but merely a change into the proper proceedings, by an amend­
ment in the pleadings, and a transfer of the action to the proper
docket. 
SEC. 10. The error mentioned in the last section may be cor­
rected by the plaintifff, without motion, at any time before the de­
fendant has answered ; or, afterwards, on motion, in Court. 
SEC. 11. The defendant shall be entitled to have the correc­
tion made, in the following cases: Where the action has been
cemmenced by equitable proceedings, the defendant, by motion
made, at the time of filing his answer, may have them changed
into ordinary proceedings, when it appears that by the provisions
of section eight, the plaintifff should have adopted ordinary pro­
ceedings, and in addition that hie answer presents a defense on
which he is entitled to trial by jury. · 
SEC. 12. Where the action has been commenced by ordinary
proceedings, the defendant, by motion made, at, or before, the
time of filing hie answer may have them changed into equitable
proceedings, when it appears that, by the provisions of section
seven, the plaintifff should have adopted equitable proceedings. 
SEC. 13. Where the action has been properly commenced by 
ordinary proceedings, either party shall have the right, by motion,
to have any issue, which before the adoption of this Code was ex­
clusively cognizable in equity, tried in the manner hereinafter pre­
scribed in cases of equitable proceedings ; and if all the issues are
such as, before the adoption of this Code, were cognizable in 
equity, though none were exclusively so, the defendant shall be 
entitled to have them all tried as in cases of equitable pro­
ceedings. 
SEC. 14. If the plaintifff's claim is for money due by contract,
and the defendant puts in a defense of exclusively equitable cog­
nizance, upon the plaintifff filing an affidavit that he verily believes
that he will succeed in the action, and that the collection of his 
claim after judgment will be endangered by the delay arising from
such defense being put in, the Court shall require the defendant
to give security for the payment of any judgment, the plaintifff
may obtain in the action, and upon his failure to give such secu­
rity, shall order the defendant to pay into Court an amount suffi­
cient to discharge the plaintifff's claim and his probable costs ; 
upon :which order execution may be issued as upon a judgment,
and the amount collected upon execution shall be brought into 
Court and await the decision of the action, and be paid to the
plaintifff or defenbant, according to such decision. But no such
security shall be re~uired, if the trial ot the equitable defense takes
place during the term at which it is put in, nor until all defenses
to the action, other than those of equitable cognizance, are tried
or disposed of in favor of the plaintifff. 
SEC. 15. An error as to the kind of proceedings adopted in the
action, is waived by failure to move for its correction at the time
and in the manner prescribed in this chapter; and all errors in the
decisions of the Court, on any of the motions named in this chap­
ter, are waived, unless excepted to at the time; which may be
done by the clerk noting at the end of such decision words ef the
following import: "To which decision the plaiutiff (or defendant)
excepts." 
SEC. 16. The provisions of this Code concerning the prosecu­
tion of a civil action, apply to both kinds of proceedings, whether 
ordinary or equitable, unless the contrary appears.
SEC. 17. Judgment obtained in an action by ordinary proceed­ 
ings, shall not be annulled or modified by any order in an action
by equitable proceedings, except for a defense which has arisen or
been discovered since the judgment was rendered. But such
judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim, though such 
claim might have been used by way of set-off, counterclaim, or
cross demand, in the action on which the judgment was recovered. 
SEC. 18. The rule of the common law that statutes in deroga­
tion thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this
Code. Its provisions and all proceedings under it, shall be liber­
ally construed with a view to promote its object and assist the par­
ties in obtaining justice. 
SEc. 19. The Supreme Court shall be held at the Capital of
this State. 
SEC. 20. There shall be two terms a year, one commencing
on the first Monday in June, and the other on the first Monday 
of December.
SEC. 21. The sheriff of the county where the Court is held, or 
his deputy, must attend upon the Court, and shall receive two
dollars a day for such attendance. 
SEC. 22. The ameunt appropriated by the General Assembly
therefore, shall limit the contingent expenses, which shall be al­
lowed said court. 
SEC. 23. The presence of two judges is necessary for
the transaction of business, but one alone may adjourn from day
to day, or to any particular day, or until the next term. 
SEC. 24. When the Court is equally divided in opinion,
the cause must stand for a re-argument, unless the third judge be
legally disqualified from sitting, In such case the judgment of
the District Court shall stand affirmed, but the decision is of no
further force or authority. 
SEC. 25. If all the judges fail to attend on the first day
of the term, the clerk must enter the fact upon the record, and
the Court shall stand adjourned until the next day. The same 
proceedings shall be repeated from day to day, until the fourth
day of the term, when if none of the judges appear, the Court
shall stand adjourned until the next term. 
SEC. 26. No process or proceeding is in any manner
affected by an adjournment or failure to bold Court, but all shall
stand continued to the next term, without any special order to
that effect. 
SEC. 27. The Supreme Court has an appellate jurisdic­
tion over all judgments and decisions of any of the District Courts
as well in case of civil actions properly so called, as in proceed­ 
ings of a special or independent character.
SEc. 28. The following orders may also be carried, by appeal, 
to the Supreme Court : 
1st. An order made affecting a. substantial right in an action,
when such order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a 
judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
2d. A final order made in special proceedings affecting a sub­ 
stantial right therein, or made on a summary application in an
action after judgment. 
3d. When an order grants or refuses, continues or modifies a
provisional remedy, or grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dis­
solve an injunction or attachment, when it grants or refuses a new
trial, or when it sustains or overrules a demurrer . 
. 4th. An intermediate order involving the merits and material­
ly affecting the final decision. 
5th. An order or judgment on habeas corpus.
SEC. 29. If any of the above orders are made by a judge of 
the District Court, the same is reviewable in the same way as if 
made by the Court.
SEC. 30. The Court may also in its discretion, prescribe 
rules for allowing appeals, on such other intermediate orders or ,
decisions as they think expedient, and for permitting the same to
be taken and tried during the progress of the trial in the Court
below; but such intermediate appeals must not retard preceed­
ings in the trial in chief in the District Court. 
SEC. 31. The Court may issue all writs and process
necessary for the exercise and enforcement of its appellate juris­
diction. 
SEC. 32. The opinions of the Court on all questions re­
viewed on appeal as well as such motions, collateral questions
and points of practice as they may think of sufficient importance,
shall be reduced to writing, and filed with the clerk of the Ooart, 
SEC. 33. All dissenting opinions must be written and
filed in the same manner. 
SEC. 34. The records and reports must in all cases
show whether a decision was made by a full bench, and whether
either, and if so which, of the judges dissented from the decision. 
SEC. 35. The Supreme Court has a general supervision
over the District Court to prevent and correct abuses where no
other remedy is provided for by law. 
SEC. 36. The Supreme Court shall hold argument terms at
the city of Davenport, in the county of Scott, twice a year, one
beginning on the first Monday in April, and the other the first
Monday of October. , 
SEC. 37. All the causes on the docket shall be heard each
term, unless by the parties, for good cause shown, continued, and
such as are thus continued shall go to the succeeding term of the 
Court at the Capital.
SEC. 38. From the counties of Scott, Clinton, Jackson, Du­ 
buque, Clayton, Allamakee, Winneshiek, Hancock, Mitchell,
Chickasaw, Floyd, Worth, Oerro Gordo, Tama, Bremer, Butler, ..
Black Hawk, Buchanan, Delaware, Fayette, Jones, Linn, Ben­
ton, Johnson, Iowa, Cedar, Muscatine, Louisa, Washington, Des
Moines, Henry, Lee, Van Buren, causes must be takea thereto.
But with the consent of the appellee, expressed in writing on the
notice of appeal, the appellant may take such appeal to the
Capital. 
SEC. 39. Appeals from the other counties of the State shall
not go to the Davenport term, unless by consent of parties ex­
pressed in the notice of appeal. 
SEC. 40. The Court at the Davenport term, shall have the
same powers, and be governed by the same rules, and the duties
of all the officers thereof shall be the same as at the term at the
Capital, so far as the same are applicable to a term which is only 
one for argument. ,
SEC. 41. Each judge of the Supreme Court shall have as mile­ 
age for the Davenport term, going and returning, ten cents for
each mile by the nearest practicable route, and the clerk thereof
shall have five dollars a day, for each day of the session of such
term. 
SEC. 42. The Court shall appoint a person, not a judge there­
of; reporter, who shall hold his office at the pleasure of the Court. 
SEC. 43. He shall, after the same are 'announced, as fast as
practicable, publish in the order of decision, reports of all the de­
cisions of said Court. His report of a case shall contain the date
thereof, a short abstract of the facts involved in the decision, fol­
lowed by the legal propositions made by counsel in. the argument
with the authorities relied on for their support, but not the argu­
ment at length. 
SEC. 44. Each case shall also contain an exact syllabus of the
decision, and the book shall have an index and a table of cases,
and shall contain at least six hundred and fifty pages, and be call­ 
ed and numbered as now required.
SEC. 45. The reporter shall have access to the files of the 
Court, and after opinions are filed and recorded, may on necessity
therefore, take any . case away until he has prepared his report
thereon, when he must again deliver it to the clerk. ' 
SEC. 46. The Governor shall take for the State, four hundred
copies of each book, and the State shall pay therefore five dol­
lars each. 
SEC. 47. The Supreme Court may appoint and remeve its
clerks. 
SEc. 48. Such clerk shall keep his office at the Capital of the
State. 
SEC. 49. He shall keep a cc-nplete register of all the proceed­
ings of the Oourt, with an index of the same. 
SEC. 50. He must not allow any written opinion of the Court
to be removed from his office, except by the reporter, but shall
permit any one to examine or copy the same, and shall, when re­
quired, make a copy for any one fer a fee of six cents for every
onehundred words. 
SEC. 51. He shall promptly announce by letter, any decision
rendered te one of the attorneys of each side, when such attorneys
are not in attendance at the place of Oourt. 
SEC. 52. He shall make a record of every opinion rendered 
by said Conrt, as soon as filed, and shall perform all the duties
ordinarily pertaining to his office. 
SEC. 53. When the clerk shall have arranged the causes ftom
the different counties for their days, he shall publish the same 
four weeks in. some newspaper, published in the city where the
Court is to be held. 
CHAPTER /V. (CODE, 92.) 
SECTION 54. . . . . 1566
" 55 1567 
" 56 1568
" ·57 1569 
a 58 . . . . . .. ~ 1570
" 59 1571
" 60 ..•........ 1572 
,, 61 . . . . , 1573
" 62 1574 
" 63 •......••.. 1575 
" 64: 1576 
CHAPTER VI. (CODE 93.) 
SECTION 75, a(l587.) 
I>ISTRIOT COURT. 
SECTION 65. . . . _ . , .... 1577
" 66 ......•.... 1578 
" 67 1579
" 68 1580 
" 69 ....••..••. 1581
,~ 70 1582 
" 71 1583
" f2 1584
" 73 1585 
" 74: 1586 · 
GENKBAL PROVISIONS. 
SEC. 76. In 1860, and every sixth year thereafter, there shall
be appointed by the Governor, by and with the consent ef the
Senate, three Commissioners of Legal Inquiry, who shall hold their
office for six years, and any vacancy, by resignation or otherwise,
may be filled by the Governor, s.ubject to the approval of the Sen­
ate then, or next to be seseion, 
SEC. 77. Each of the Judges of the Supreme and District Court
shall report to the Ohairmaa of such Commission, as fast as the
same shall fall under his observation, any omission, discrepancy,
or other evident imperfection of the law of civil or criminal pro­
cedure. 
SEC. 78. Such Oommission may report to the Legislature at 
each regular session, such amendments in civil or criminal pro­
cedure, as they may deem advisable, in order to carry out the intent
and general spirit of the system of practice herewith adopted. 
SEC. 79. They shall not, nor shall any of them :receive, either
directly or indirectly, any compensation tor their services. 
SEC. 80. The Supreme and District Ooarts shall respectively
have power (by the establishment of proper rules) to supply defects
in this Code of Oivil Procedure, so as not to contravene any express
provision thereof, but to carry out the general spirit and intent of
the system of practice herewith adopted. But the District Oourt
of any county may provide by general rule, that in actions brought,
or to be brought, in sneh Oourt, the time of filing an answer, reply,
demurrer or motion, shall be other than that provided in this Code,
and such other rules as may be necessary to the end that in those 
counties, where the same seems to such Court desirable, issues may
be made up in vacation. 
SECTION 81. . . . . 1590 
" 82 ..••...••.. 1591
" 83 1592
" 84 1593· 
CHAPTER VII. (OODE 94.) 
SECTION 89 . . . . . 1598
" 90 1599
" 91. 1600
" 92 1601 
" 93 •••..••.•.• 1602
" 94 1603 
SECTION 85. . . . . 1594 ' 
ceNTBKPTS. 
" 86 ........•.• 1595 " 87 1596
" 88 15~7 
SECTION 95. . . . . 1604
" 96 1005
" 97 1606 
" 98 1607
" 99 1608 
OHAPTER VIII. (OODE 95.) 
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS. 
SBCTION 100. (1609.)
SEC. 101. Any white male person who is actually an inhabitant 
of this State, and who sa~fies any District Oourt of this State that
he possesses the requisite learning, and that he is of good moral 
character, may by such Oeurt be permitted to practice in all the Dis­
trict Oourts of the State, upoR taking the usual oath of office. 
SECTION 102 ........•. 1611 S:aoTION 112 1621
" -103 1612 " 113 ~ .. 1622
" 104 1613 " 114 1623 
,, 105 1614 " 115 1624
" 106 .......•.. 1615 " 116.. . 1625 
" 107 1616 " 117 · 1626
" 108 1617 " 118 1627 
" 109 : 1618 " 119 1628
" 110 1619 " 120 1629
" 111 1620 
CHAPTER IX. (OODE 96.) 
SECTION 121. (1630.)
" 122. (1631.) 
" 123. (1632.)
SEC. 125. Two jury lists, one consisting of seventy-five per- 
sons, to serve as Grand Jurors, and one censisting of one hundred
and fifty persons, to serveas Petit Jurors, and both lists composed
of persons competent and liable to serve as jurors, shall be annu­ 
ally made in each county, from which to select jurors for the years 
commencing on the first day of January annually. 
SEC. 126. On or before the first .Monday in &-pteml>er in each
year, the Oeunty Clerk shall apportion the number to be selected
from each township as nearly as practicable in proportion to the
number of votes polled therein at the last general election, and
shall deliver a statement thereof to the Sheriff. 
SEC. 127. The Sheriff shall cause a written notice to'be deliv­
ered to one of the judges of election in the several townships of the 
county, on or befere the day of the general election in each year,
informing them of tae number of jurors apportioned for the ensuing
year to their respective townships. 
SEC. 128. The judges shall thereupon make the requisite selec­
tion,. and return list of names as selected to the Oonnty Judge, with
the returns of election, and further, provided that in ease the judges
of election shall fail to make and retnm said lists as herein required, 
the county canvassers shall, at the meeting to canvass the votes
polled in the county, make such lists for the delinquent townships. 
SECTION 129 1638 SECTION 134' 1648
" 130 1639 " 135 ·: 1644 
h 181. 1640 ,, 136 164:5
" 132 1641 " 137 1646 
" 133 1642 " 138 1647
SEC. 139. Where from any cause the persans summoned to 
serve as Grand Jurors, or i;etit Jurors, fail to appear, or when
from any cause the Court shall decide that the Grand or Petit
Jurors have been illegally elected or drawn, the Court may set
aside the precept under which the jurors were summoned, and
cause a precept to be issued to the Sheriff', commanding him to
summon a sufficient number of persons from the body of the county
to serve as jurors at the term of Court then being holden, which
precept may be made returnable forthwith, or at some subsequent 
· day of the term, in the discretioa of the Court.
SEC. 152. Causes of action founded on contract are revived by
an admission that the debt is unpaid, as well as by a new promise
to pay the same. But such admission or new promise must be in
writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby. 
SEC. 153. A defendant may plead a set off or counterclaim, to
any cause of action, notwithstanding such set off or counterclaim 
SECTION 154 1671 I SECTION 156 ..•.•..... 1673
" 155 1672 " 157 .•...•.... 1674 
is barred by the Statute. 
LlllITATIONS OF AOTIONS. 
SEOTION 14:7 1665
" 148 1666 
" 149 1667
" 150 ........•. 1668
" 151. 1669 
SEC. 158. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 159. An Executor or Admisinstrator, a guardian, a trustee
of an express trust, a party with whom, or in whose name a con­
tract is made for the benefit of another, .or a party expressly author­
ized by Statute, may sue in his own name without joining with
him the party for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. . 
Sso, 160. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as
plaintifffs, except where it is otherwise provided in this Code. 
SEC. 161. In case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action by the assigned shall be without prejudice to any set-off or
other defense existing before notice. of the assignment ; but this section shall not apply to negotiable instruments transferred in 
good faith and upon valuable consideration before due.
SEC. 162. Any person may be made a defendant who has or 
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or
who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settle­
ment of the question involved in the action. 
SEC. 163. Persons ha Ting an united interest must be joined on
the same side, either as plaintifffs or defendants. But when some
who should thus be made plaintifffs refuse to join, they may be
made defendants ; the reason thereof· being set forth in the peti­
tion. 
SEC. 164. When the question is one of a common or general
interest to inany persons: or when the parties are very numerous
and it is impracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or 
more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
SEC. 165. Where two or more persons are bound by contract, 
or by judgment, decree or statute, whether jointly only or jointly ,
and severally, or severally only, and including the parties tone­
gotiable paper, common orders, and checks, and sureties on the 
same, or separate instruments-the action theresn may, at the
plaintifff's option, be brought against any or all of them. When
any 'of those so bound are dead, the action may be brought against 
any or all of the survivors, with any or all of the representatives
of the decedents--or against any or all such representatives. 
An action or judgment against any one or more of several per­
sons jointly bound, shall not be a bar to proceedings against the 
others.
SEc. 166. The Court may determine any controversy between 
parties before it when it can ht, done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights. But when a determi- 
· nation of the controversy between the parties betore the Court
cannot be made without the presence •f other parties, the Court 
must order them to be brought in. 
SEc. 167. When in an action for the recovery of real or per­
sonal property, any person having an interest in the property ap­
plies to be made a party, the Court may order it to be done by
the proper amendment. 
SEC. 168. Upon affidavit of a defendant before answer in any
action upon contract for the recovery of personal property, that
some third party without ,collusion with him, has, or makes a claim
to the subject of the action, or on proof thereof as the Court may
direct, the Court may make an order for the safe , keeping, or for
the payment or deposit in Oosrt, or deli very of the subject of the
action to such person as it may direct, and an order requiring such 
third :person to appear in a reasonable time and :maintain or relin­
quish his claim against the defendant, and in the mean time stay
the proceedings. 
If such third party, being served with a copy of the o. der, fails
.to appear, the Court may declare him barred of all claim in re­ 
spect to the subject of the action against the defendant therein. 
If such third person appears, he shall be allowed to make himself
defendant in the action in lieu of the original defendant who shall
be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties in re­
spect to the subject of the action upon his compliance with the
order of the Court for the payment, deposit, or deli very thereof. 
SEc. 169. The provisions of the last section shall be applicable 
to an action brought against a Sheriff, or other officer, for the re. 
eovery of personal property taken by him under an attachment or
execution, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold
by him. And the defendant in any such action shall be entitled
to the benefit of these provisions against the party in whose favor
the attachment or execution issued, upon exhibiting to the Court 
the process under which he acted, with his affidavit that the prop­
erty, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action was
brought, was taken under such process. 
SEC. 170. In an action against a Sheriff or other officer for the
recovery of property taken under an attachment or execution, the
Court may, upon the application of the defendant and of the par­ 
ty in whose favor the process issued, permit the latter to be sub­
stituted as the defendant, sureties tor the costs being given. 
SEC. 171. All action to recover the possession of specific per­
sonal property, taken under a landlord's attachment when it is
brought by the tenant or his assignee or under-tenant, may be
against the party who sued out the attachment ; and the property
claimed by such action, may, under the writ therefore, be taken
from the officer who seized it, when he has no other claim to hold
it than that derived from the writ. The endorsement of a levy
on the property made upon the proeese by the officer holding it,
sha~ be a sufficient taking of the property to sustain the action
against the p~rty who sued out the writ. 
SEC. 172. When a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that, 
1st. When the action concerns her separate property, or is
founded on her own contract, she may sue and be sued alone. 
2d. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue and be sued alone. 
And in no case need she prosecute or defend by guardian or
next friend. 
SEC. 173. When sued alene judgment shall be enforced against
her separate property. 
SEC. 174. When sueing alone, judgment may be enforced
against her separate property or her husband being brought in by
rule, execution may issue against him also, unless for cause he
show that he is not interested in the snit by the wife. 
SEC. 175. If husband and wife are sued together, the wife may
defend for her own right ; and if either neglect to defend, the
other may defend for such one also. 
SEC. 176. In an action brought by a m_an and his wife for an
injury done to the wife, in respect of which she is necessarily 
joined as co-plaintifff, it shall be lawful for the husband to join
thereto claims in his own right. 
SEC. 177. When a husband, being a father, has deserted his 
family, the wife, being a mother, may prosecute or defend in his
name, any action which he might have prosecuted or defended,
and shall have the same powers and rights therein as he might
have had. 
SEC. 178. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian or his next friend; but the Court has power to dismiss
it it it is not for the benefit of the infant, or to substitute the guar­
dian of the infant or other person as next friend. 
SEc. 179. The defense ot an infant must be by his regular
guardian, or by a guardian appointed to defend him, where no
regular guardian appears, or where the Court directs a defense by
a guardian appointed for that purpose. No judgment can be ren­
dered against an infant until after a defense by a guardian. 
SEC. 180. The appointment cannot be made until after service
ot the notice in the action as directed by this Code, and may then
be made by the Court or Judge thereof, or during vacation by the
Clerk of the District Court, but the Court shall have power to re­
move such guardian and appoint another instead whenever the in­
terests of the infant require such a change. 
SEC. 181. The appointment may be made upon the application
of the infant if he is of the age of fourteen years, and applies at
or before the term to which the notice is served. If he is under
the age of fourteen, or does not so apply, the appointment may 
be made upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on
that of the plaintifff in the action. 
SEC. 182. The action of a person judicially found to be of un­
sound mind, must be brought by his guardian, or if he has none,
by his next friend. When brought by his next friend, the action 
is subject to the power of the Court in the same manner as the
action of an infaat so brought. 
SEC. 183. The defense ot an action against a person judicially
found to be of unsound mind, must be by his guardian or a guar­
dian appointed by the Court to defend for him, when no guardian
appears, or when the Court directs a defense by a guardian. The
guardian to defend may be appointed at the application of any
friend of the defendant, or on that of the plaintifff, and no ap­
pointment can be made until after service of the notice, as directed
in this Code, and no judgment can be rendered against him until
after a defense hy e;uardian. 
SEC. 184. Whert, a party is judicially found to be of unsound 
mind during the pendency of an action, the fact being stated on
the record, if he is plaintifff his guardian may be joined with him
in the action as such; if he is defendant, the-plaintifff may, on ten
days notice thereof to his guardian, have an order making the
guardian a defendant also. 
SEC. 185. No judgment can be rendered against a prisoner in
the penitentiary, until after a defense made for him by his attor­ 
ney, or if there is none, by a person appointed by the Court to
defend for him. 
SEC. 186. A guardian or attorney appointed on the application
of the plaintifff to defend for an infant, person of unsound mind,
or prisoner, shall be allowed a reasonable fee for his services, to
be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs. 
SEc. 187. A copartnership may sue or be sued in its firm name;
and when so sued the individual property of' any member of such
firm, may, on scire tacias, be made liable to the judgment, unless
he show cause to the contrary. A co partnership may also sue or
be sued in the individual names of its members. 
SEc. 189. When an action is founded on a written instrument,
snit may be brought by or against any of the parties thereto by
the same name and description as those by which they are desig­
nated in such instrument. 
SEc. 190. When a bond or other instrument given to the State
or to any officer or person, is intended for the security of the pub­
lie generally or of particular individuals, suit may be brought
thereon in the name of any person intended to be thus secured,
who has sustained any injury in consequence of a breach thereof;
or by such party in the name of the oblizee, the body politic may
sue in the name of the obligee in the bond, and in case a motion
is allowable, such party may, in the same manner, make such mo­ 
tion.
SEC. 191. When the precise name of any defendant cannot be 
ascertained, he may be described as accurately as practicable, and
when the name is ascertained it shall be substituted in the pro­ 
ceedings.
SEc. 192. Corporations, foreign or domestic, may bring suit in 
the courts of this State in their corporate name,
SEC. 193. An unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintifff, an 
action for her own seduction, and recover such damages as may
be'found in her favor. 
SEC. 194. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his
family, or imprisonment, the mother may prosecute as plaintifff for
the seduction of the daughter ; and the guardian for the seduction
of the ward, though the daughter or ward be not Ii ving with, nor
in the service ot the plaintifff at the time of the seduction, or af­
terwards, and there be no loss of service,-but when the action is 
brought by the guardian, the damages recovered shall enure to
the benefit of the ward. 
SEC. 195. A father, or in case of his death or imprisonment,
or desertion of his family, the mother may prosecute as plaintifff
an action for the expenses and actual loss of service resulting from
the injury or death of a minor child., 
SEc. 196. The State shall commence and prosecute suits accor­
ding to the laws of the land as in cases between individuals, ex­
cept that no security shall, in such case, be required. 
SEC. 197. No action shall abate by the transfer or assignment
of any interest therein during its pendency. In case of the mar­
riage of a female party, the fact being suggested on the record,
the husband may be made a party with his wife, whenever neces­
sary. In case of any other transter of' interest, the action may _be
continued in the name of the original party, or the Court may al­
low the person to whom the transfer or assignment is made, to
be substituted in the action, proper orders being made as to secu­ 
rity for costs. 
CHAPTER XII. 
PLACE OF BRINGING SUIT. 
SEC. 198. Actions for the following causes must be brought
in the county in which the subject ot the action, or some part 
thereof is situated :
1st. For the recovery of real property or of an estate therein, 
or for the determination in any form of such right or interest.
2d. For the partition of real property. 
3d. For the toreclosnre of a mortgage of real property, or for
the sale of real property under any incumhrance or change. 
4th. For injuries to real property.
5th. For the possession of personal property. 
SEC. 199. Actions for the following causes must be brought in
the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose : 
1st. An action for the recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture
imposed by a statute, except that when the offense for which the
claim is madewas committed on a water course or road, which is
the boundary of two counties, the action may be brought in either
of them. 
2d. An action against a public officer, or person specially ap­
pointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue or
under color of his office, or against one who by his command or
in his aid, shall do any thing touching the duties of such officer,
or for neglect of official duty. 
~d. An action upon the official bond of a public officer.
SEC. 200. An action when aided by attachment may be brought 
in any county ot the State, wherever any part of the property
sought to be attached may be found, when the defendant, whose
property is thus pursued, is a non-resident of this State. If such
defendant is a resident of this State, such action must be brought
in the county of' his residence, or that in which the contract was
to _be performed, except that if an action be duly brought against
such defendant in any other county by virtue of any provisions of
this chapter, then such action may, it legal cause for an attach­
ment exist, be aided by an attachment. 
SEC. 201. When by its terms a contract is to be performed in
any particular place, action for a breach thereof, may be brought 
in the county wherein such place is situated.
SEC. 202. An action against a railroad company, or an owner 
of a Jine of mail stages, or other coaches, for an injury to person
or property, upon the road or line," or upon a. liability as a carrier.
may be brought in a!ly county through or into which said · road
or line passes. 
SEC. 203. Except where otherwise provided herein, personal
actions must be brought in a county wherein some of the defend­
ants actually reside. But if none of them have any residence 
within this State, they may be sued in any county wherein either
of them may be found, or in which the plaintifff may elect to bring
his action. 
SEc. 204. When a corporation, company, or individual has an
office or agency in any county for the transaction of business, any 
suits growing out of, or connected with the business of that office 
or agency, may be brought in the county where such office or
agency is located ... 
SEC. 205. If a snit be brought in the wrong county, it may be
there prosecuted to a termination, unless the defendant, before
answer, demand a change of venue to the proper county. In
which case, the Court shall order the same at the costs of the
plaintifff, and may award the defendant a reasonable compensation
for his trouble and expenses in attending at the wrong county. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
OHANGE OF VENUE. 
SEC. 206. A change of venue in any civil action, may be had
in any of the following cases : 
lat. Where the county in which the suit is pending is a party
thereto. 
2d. Where the judge is a party, or is directly interested in the
snit, or is connected by blood or affinity, with any person so in­
terested, nearer than in the fourth degree. 
3d. When either party files an affidavit, stating that the inhabi­
tants of the county are so prejudiced against him, or that the ad­
verse party or his attorney, has such an undue influence over the
inhabitants of the county, that he cannot obtain a fair trial. 
SEC. 207. The application for a change of venue may be made,
either to the Court or to the judge in vacation, and if made in
term time, shall not be awarded until issue be made up, unless
objection be to the Court; nor shall such application be allowed
after a continuance, except for a cause not known to the afliant
before such continuance, and after one change, no party is entitled
to another, for any cause ia existence, when the first change was
obtained. 
SEC. 208. The venue shall be changed to some other county in
the same district, unless the objections are to the judge, or unless
the objection made is claimed to hold to all the other counties of
the district, and shall be to the most convenient county to which
no objection is made. 
SEC. 209. If the change is ordered by the judge in vacation, 
he must immediately transmit to the clerk, where the cause is
pending, the affidavit, if any, and the order for the change. 
SEC. 210 In such case, as well as where the order is made in
open Court, the clerk must forthwith transmit, by a trusty mes­
senger, to the clerk of the proper Court, strongly enveloped and
sealed, a transcript of the record and proceedings in such cause
with all the original papers filed therein, having first made out
and filed in his own office, authenticated copies of all such original
papers, but if less than all of several plaintifffs or defendants take
such change, the clerk shall so transmit, not the original papers,
but a copy thereof instead, and shall retain the original papers in
his office, and as to those who take no change, the cause shall
proceed as if no change had been taken by any co-party. 
SEC. 211. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the office
of the clerk of the Court to which the same were certified the
cause shall be docketed without fee, and proceeded in as though
it had originated therein. 
SEC. 212. The costs occasioned by such change of venue, in­
cluding thereof the transcript and transmission, and those grow­
ing out of the preparation of the other party for trial, shall be
taxed against the applicant and not as a part of the costs of the
case, and the clerk may require payment of the costs of the tran­
script and transmission, before the case is transmitted as afore­
said. 
SEC. 213. If change of' venue be taken in vacation, and the
applicant therefore has not procured the transmission of the papers
to the proper county, before the first day of the next term there­
after, then such party shall be held to have waived his change of
venue, and the cause shall be retained in the Court where pend­
ing for trial therein, unless such non-transmission be the entire
fault of the clerk. And if such change be taken during a term of
Court, unless the cause be so transmitted as aforesaid, or the costs
of the clerk therefore be paid or secured by the morning of the
second day thereafter, or before said cause be reached for trial, it
sooner reached, then such cause shall be retained for trial in the
Court where pending, and tried as if no change had been prayed. 
SEc. 214. Actions originating in the District Oourt are to be
commenced by serving the defendant with the notice hereinafter
described. 
SEc. 215. Such notice must be signed by the plaintifff or his
attorney, and must inform the defendant of the name of the
plaintifff, and, that on or before a date therein named, a petition
will be filed in the office of the Olerk of the District Oourt of the
county wherein suit is brought, naming it, and if the action is for
money, howmuch is claimed-and that unless he appears thereto
and defends, before noon of the second day of the term, at which
said defendant is required by law to appear-naming it-or at
such other time, as may be by general rule ot such Oourt pre­
scribed, default will be entered against him, and judgment ren­
dered thereon. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall
not be rendered for a larger amount than the sum therein claimed
and costs. 
SEc. 216. If the petition is not filed by the date thus fixed,
the action will be deemed discontinued. 
SEc. 217. The notice may be served by any person not a party
to the action. 
SEC. 218. The defendant, if served otherwise than by publi­
cation, shall be held to appear at the next term after service, pro·
vided- 
lst-He be served within the county where suit is brought in
such time as to leave:at least ten days between the day of service 
and the first day of the next term.
2d-He be served without the county, but within the judicial 
district, so as to leave at least fifteen such days.
3d-He be served elsewhere within the State so as to leave 
twenty such days.
4th-He be served without the State so as to leave ten such 
days for every one thousand miles or fraction thereof, extending
between the county'ot suit and the place of service, which distance
shall be judicially noticed by the Oourt. If not so served he shall 
be held to appear at the second term thereafter. 
SEc. 219. If served within the State, the service is to be
made- 
lst-By reading the notice to the defendant, or offering to read
it in case he neglects or refuses to hear it read, or 
2d-By delivering him personally, a copy of the notice, or if he
refuses to receive it, offering to deliver it. 
3d-If he be the head of a family and not found within the
county of his residence, by leaving a copy of the notice at his
usual place of residence, with some member of his family over 
feurteen years of age.
4th-By taking an acknowledgement of the service endorsed on 
the notice, dated, and signed by the defendant, in the presence of
a witness. 
SEC. 220. If, the service being personal, a copy of the notice
is demanded, it must be given, and a copy of the petition must
also be delivered, or left with the notice, whether demanded or
not, but if the service be in the county where the cause is pend­
ing, and the plaintifff choose, he may state in the notice that a copy
of the petition will be left for such defendant, at the office of the
Clerk of the Court where suit is brought, within two clear days
thereafter, and the same being done, shall be sufficient-and if 
not so done, such notice shalt not bind the defendant to appear.
When such copy is so left with the clerk, the attorney shall mark
thereon, copy, and for whom, and shall have from the clerk, a re­
ceipt therefore, if required, and the clerk shall endorse on such
copy, when delivered in his office, the time thereof, and minute
the same on the calender of causes, and shall deliver the same to
such defendant, when thereto by him requested. 
SEC. 221. If served personally, the return must state the time
and manner and place of making the service, and also whether a
copy of the notice was demanded, and if it was, whether it was de­
livered. If made by leaving a copy with the family, it must state
at whose house the same was left, and the township, town or city
in which the house was situated, the name of the person with
whom the same was left, and that such person was over tourteen
years of age, and was a member of defendant's family, and whether
a copy of the petition was also delivered or left at the same time
and in the same way. 
SEC. 222. When the service is made without the limits of the
State, a copy of the petition, certified by the clerk, with a copy of 
the notice, must be delivered to each defendant, by some person to
whom he is personally known. Proof of the delivery shall be
made by the affidavit of the person making it, endorsed on, or an­
nexed to the notice, and certified copy of the petition, in which af­
fidavit the time and place of the delivery, and the fact that the
defendant was personally known to the affiant shall be stated.
Such affidavit may be sworn before any consul or vice-consul, ap­
pointed by the United States, at any foreign port or place, or be
fore any commissioner appointed by the Governor of this State, or
before any notary public, and the officer before whom it is made
shall certify that the affiant is personally known to him to be
worthy of credit, and such notice and certified petition, with
the affidavit and certificate herein contemplated, purporting to be
made by the officer aforesaid, being returned and filed in the ac­
tion, shall be held an actual personal service, for all purposes. 
SEC. 223. If notice is served out of the county where snit is
pending, either within or without the State, rel urn may be made
by mail and the postage thereon taxed among the costs. 
SEC. 224. It notice is placed in the hands ot the Sheriff of the
county wherein action is brought, he must note thereon the date
when thus left with him, and must proceed to serve the same with
out delay, if possible, within his county, and must file the same
with his return thereon immediately thereafter in the office of the
Clerk of the District Court. If placed in the hands ot the Sheriff
of any other county, he must serve the same if possible within his
county at once, and return the same by mail to the party from
whom he received it, with his return thereon, immediately there­
after ; and when served as last herein contemplated, a copy of the
petition for each defendant must be at the same time delivered,
or left therewith, else such service shall not bind to appear, any
defendant not so served. 
SEC. 225. If a notice be not duly filed by the Sheriff, or it the
return thereon is defective, the officer making the same may be
fined by the Court not exceeding ten dollars, and shall also be lia­
ble to the action of any person aggrieved thereby. But the Court
may permit an amendment according to the truth of the case. 
SEC. 226. If a copy of the petition be not given to the Sheriff
with the notice, he may, at his discretion, if the petition be already
filed, make such copy thereof at the costs of the plaintifff. 
SEC. 227. Notice shall not be served on Sunday, unless the
plaintifff make oath thereon that personal service will not be possi ·
ble unless then made, and a notice endorsed with such affidavit
shall be served by the Sheriff, or may be served by another, as on 
a secular day.
SEc. 228. The plaintifff may notify either of the defendants that 
no personal claim is made against him, in which case a copy of that
notice must accompany the return. If after such notice and return
such defendant unreasonably defend, he must pay costs to the
plaintifff. 
SEc. 229. If service be made within the State, the truth of the
return is proven by the signature of the Sheriff, or his deputy,
when made by either of them in his own county, and the Court
shall take judicial notice thereof. If made by one not such officer,
the return may be proven by the affidavit of him making the same,
certified by one empowered to administer oaths. 
SEc. 230. If a county is defendant, service may be made on the
County Judge or Clerk of the County Court. If any other civil
corporation, upon a trustee or other officer thereof. 
SEC. 231. When an action is brought against a corporation of
any other description, service may be made upon either of its offi­
cers, or on any clerk or agent engaged in the active management
of the ordinary business of the corporation. 
SEC. 232. If brought against a corporation having no officers
or a partnership, service may be made upon any member thereof,
or upon any agent employed in the general management of their
business. 
SEC. 233. When a corporation, company, or individual, has, for
the transaction of any business, an office or agency in any county,
other than that in which the principal resides, service may be made
on any agent or clerk employed in such office or agency, in all
actions growing out of, or connected with, the business of that
office or agency. 
SEC. 234. When the defendant is a minor under the age ot
fourteen years, the service must be made on him, and also on hi
father or mother or guardian, and if there be none of these within
the State, then on the person within this State having the care and
control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose
service he shall be employed. When the infant is over fourteen
years of age, service on him shall be sufficient. 
SEc. 235. When the defendant is a person judicially found to
be of unsound mind, service must be made upon him and upon his 
guardian, and it he have no guardian, then upon his wife, or the
person having the care of him, or with whom he lives, or the keeper 
of the asylum in which he may be confined.
SEC. 236. When the defendant is a prisoner in the penitentiary, 
a copy of the petition must be with the notice delivered to the pris­
oner, and a copy of the notice shall also be delivered to his wife,
it he have any. 
SEc. 237. Service may be made by publication in either of the
following cases : 
1st-In actions brought for the recovery of' real property, or an
estate or interest therein. 
2d-In an action for the partition of real property.
3d-In an action for the sale of real property under a mortgage 
lien or other encumbrance or charge. ·
4th-In actions to compel the specific performance of a contract 
ot sale of real estate, or in actions to establish or set aside a will,
where in such cases any or all of the defendants reside out of this
State, and the real property is within this State. 
5th-In actions brought against a non-resident of this State, or
a foreign corporation having in this State property or debts owing
to such defendant, sought to be taken by any ot the provisional
remedies, or to be appropriated in any way. 
6th-In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is real
or personal property in this State, when any defendant has or claims
a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief de­
manded consists wholly or partly in excluding him from any inter­
est therein, and such defendant is a non-resident of the State or a
foreign corporation. 
7th-In all actions where the defendant being a resident of the
State has departed therefrom, or from the county of his residence,
with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a notice, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent. 
8th- Where the action is for a divorce.
SEC. 238. Before service can be made by publication, an affida­ 
vit must be filed that personal service of notice cannot be made,
either within or without this State, on the defendant to be served 
by publication, nor can notice be obtained under sub-division third
of' section 219, and in case ot those without the State, that the 
plaintifff has used reasonable diligence to find and has not found
the residence of such defendant, and that the case is one of those
mentioned in some of the sub divisions of section 237. When such
affidavit is filed the party may proceed to make service by publiea­
tion. 
SEC. 239. The publication must be made by publishing the
notice required in section 215, without addition, six consecutive
weeks in some newspaper issued at least weekly, and printed in
the county where the petition is filed, and if there be none printed
is such county, then in such paper printed at the Capital of this
State, which paper shall, in either case, be determined in writing
by the Clerk of the Court on the affidavit, which affidavit shall be
filed in the case. 
SEC. 240. Service by publication shall be deemed complete
when the proper affidavit shall have been filed, and the notice pub­
lished in the manner and for the time p-escribed in the preceding section, and the affidavit of such publication shall have also been
filed, which affidavit- may be made by any person knowing the
fact, and the defendant shall ae held to appear at the term which
next succeeds such completed service, without regard to the num­
ber of days intervening. 
SEC. 241. Actual personal service of a copy ot the notice and
petition by delivery or tender of delivery thereof to the defendant,
either within or without the State, supersedes the necessity of pub­ 
lication.
SEc. 242. In actions where it shall be necessary to make an 
unknown person defendant, the petition shall be sworn to, and
shall state what interest such person has or claims to have, how
the same was derived or is claimed to have been derived, as exact­ 
ly as possible, that the name and the residence of' such person are
unknown to plaintifff, and that he has sought diligently to learn
the same, sad thereon proceedings may be had against such per­
son without naming him, as follows : 
SEC. 243. The Court shall approve a notice collected from the
averments of' the petition, which notice shall contain the name of
the plaintifffs, a description of the property, and all the allegations
of the petition concerning the interest of the unknown person and 
the mode of devolution thereof, the relief demanded, also the name
of the Oourt and· the term at which appearance must be made. 
Said notice must be entitled in the full name of the plaintifff against 
the unknown claimants ot property, describing such property, and
shall be signed by the plaintifff's attorney. 
SEC. 244. The Court, on its approval of said notice, shall en­
dorse the same thereon and order that the said notice be published
in some newspaper of this State, designating such paper as shall
be most likely to give notice to such unknown person. 
SEC. 245. Such notice shall be filed in the cause, and its con­
tents, without more, shall be published in the pap~r designated, at
least weekly for six successive weeks, and at the end of said time
service shall be deemed complete, and such unknown person in
Court at the next term thereafter. 
SEC. 246. The mode of appearance may be:
1st-By delivery to the plaintifff or the Clerk of the Court a 
memorandum in writing to the effect that the defendant appears,
signed either by the defendant in person or by his attorney, dated
the day ot its delivery, and to be filed in the case. 
2d-By announcing to the Court an appearance, which shall be
entered of record. 
3d-By an appearance, even though specially made, by himself
or his attorney, for any purpose connected with the cause; or for
any purpose connected with the service, or Insufficiency of the
notice. And an appearance, special or other, to object to the sub­
stance or service of the notice, shall render any further notice un­
necessary, but may entitle the defendant to a continuance, if it
shall appear to the Court that be has not had the full timely notice
required of the substantial cause of action stated in the petition, or
has not been duly served with a copy of the petition. 
SEC. 247. When the action is against two or more defendants,
and one or more shall have been served, but not all of them, the
plaintifff may proceed &! follows : 
1st-If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defeudants served, and if he
recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants
thus jointly indebted, so tar as that it may be enforced against the
joint property of all and the separate property of the defendants 
served, and it shall not be valid again1t those not served until on 
&cvre faoiae they have bad a full opportunity to show cause against
the judgement . 
. 2d-If the action \,e against defendants severally liable, he may
without prejudice to his rights against these not served, proceed 
against the defendants served in the same manner as it they were
the only defendants. 
3d-Or the plaintifff may continue tillthe next term, and proceed
to bring in the other defendants ; but at such second term the
suit shall proceed against all who have been served in due time,
and no further 'delay shall be allowed to bring in the others, un­
less all that appear shall consent to such delay. 
SEc. 248. When a petition has been filed affecting real estate,
the action is pending so as to charge third persons with notice of
its pendency, and while pending no interest can be acquired by
third persons in the subject matter thereof as against the plain·
tiff's title, if the real property affected be situated in the county
where the petition is filed. 
SEc. 249. When any part of real property, the subject of an
action is situated in any other county than the one in which the
action is brought, the plaintifff must, in order to affect third per­
sons with a constructive notice of the pendency of the action, file
with the clerk of the District Court of such county, a notice of the
pendency of the action containing the names of the parties, the
object of the action, and a description of the property in that
county affected thereby, and from the time of such filing only, shall
the pendency of the action be constructive notice to subsequent
vendees or encumbrances thereof, who shall be bound by all the
proceedings taken after the filing of such notice, to the same ex­
tent as if made a party to the action, and the clerk of such county
must immediately, on receipt of such notice, index and record the
same in the encumbrance book. 
CHAPTER XV. 
,JOINDER OF ACTIONS. 
SEc. 250. Causes of action of whatever kind, where each may
be prosecuted by the same kind of proceedings, provided that
they be by the same party, and against the same party in the
same rights, and if suit on all as to venue may be brought in that
county, may be joined in the same petition, but the Court to pi:e­ 
vent confusion therein, may direct all, or any portion of the issues 
joined therein to be tried separately, and may determine the order
thereof. 
SEC. 251. The plaintifff may strike from his petition any cause
of action, ~r any part thereof, at any time before the final submis­
sion ot the case to the jury or to the Court, when the trial is by
the Court. 
SEC. 252. The Court at any time before the defense, shall, on
motion of the defendant, strike out of the petition, any ·cause or
causes of action improperly joined with others. 
SEc. 253. All objections to the misjoinder of causes of actions
shall be deemed to be waived, unless made as provided in the last section, and all errors in the decision of the Court thereon are
waived, unless excepted to at the time. .. 
SEC. 254. When a motion is sustained on the ground of misjoinder of causes of action, the Court, on motion of the plaintifff,
shall allow him, with or without costs, in its discretion, to file
several petitions, each including such of said causes of action as
might have been joined, and an action shall be docketed for each
of said petitions, and the same shall be proceeded in without fur­ 
ther service, and the Osurt shall determine, by order, the time ot
pleading therein. 
SEC. 255. The defendant shall, in an action commenced by
ordinary proceedings, demur or answer, or do both, as to the ori­
ginal petition, on or before the morning of the second day of' the
term. 
SEC. 256. In such action, the plaintifff shall demur or reply a.a 
to the original answer, or do both, on or before the morning of the
third day of the term, and as te an amended or supplemental ans­
wer, or an answer in the nature of an answer over, arter motion
or demurrer by the party answering, on or before the morning of
the second day after the day on which such answer shall have
been filed. 
SEc. 257. The defendant shall, if' the original reply be filed on
or before the morning of the third day of the term, demur there- 
to, on or before the morning of the fourth day of the term, and 
to an amended or supplemental reply, on or before the morning
of the second 'day, after the day on which such pleading shall
have been filed. 
SEC. 256. In an equitable action, the defendant shall demnr
on or before the morning of the second day of the term, and shall
answer in the same time, if the notice shall have been served thir­
ty days before such term, and if notthen in sixty days from the
day of completed service. 
SEC. 259. If the answer, the action being commenced by
equitable proceedings, is filed on the second day of the term, the
plaintifff may demur on or before the morning of the third day
thereafter, and must ,eply thereto on or before the fiftieth day
after said filing. 
SEC. 260. The defendant must demur to an· equitable reply on
or betore the morning of the second day of the term, after the
filing thereof. 
SEC. 261. If any pleading is by any rule or order, or for any
legal reason, filed after the time herein fixed, then the adverse
party shall have, in which to file his subsequent. pleading, the 
same number of days as would have beea allowed him had such
late pleading been filed in the time herein fixed. 
SEC. 262. The appearance term shall not be the trial term for
equitable actions, except in cases in which notice shall have been 
served thirty days before such term, and in which also the answer
shall be merely a defense. 
SEC. 263. The day on which the judge actually opens Court
shall be for the purpose of timing the pleadings, considered the
first day of the term. 
SEC. 264. Every pleading must, however, be filed on or before
the cause is called for trial, if the time allowed for such pleatling
shall not then have elapsed. 
SEC. 265. Taking into consideration in each case, the business
of the attorney, and also the opportunities in such county afforded
the client to have consulted him before the term, the Court may,
on request, extend the time of filing any pleading beyond the time
herein fixed, but shall do so with due regard to making up the
issues at as early a day as under the circumstances is possible. 
SEC. 266. The Court shall have the power to tax against the
loosing party to any motion or demurrer contemplated in this 
chapter, the sum of five dollars, or any smaller sum, depending
on the merits of the controversy raised by such motion or demur­
rer, as costs, in favor of the party who thereon succeeds. But,
after the tiling of any such motion or demurrer, and before the
same is called up for argument, such motion or demurrer may be
confessed, and the proper amendment made without the costs con­
templated in this section ; bnt a second confession of a motion or
demurrer to a like pleading, shall not exempt from the costs con­
templated in this section, but shall incur them as would an adju­
dication. 
SEC. 267. When a petition, answer, or reply shall be adjudged
insufficient in whole or in part upon demurrer, or the whole- or
some part thereof stricken out on motion, the proper party may
file a further like pleading within such time as the Com may
then direct, and the same shall hold as to the answer or reply of
a party whose demurrer is overruled, and in either case, in de­
fault of such pleading being so filed, the Court shall proceed with
the cause in the same manner as if no such original pleading had
been filed. 
SEC. 268. If such seeond petition, answer, or reply be filed,
and in like manner be judged insufficient, or the whele or some 
part thereof in like manner stricken out, the pa?ty filh~g such
second pleading, shall be taxed ten dollars, or some smafier sum,
in the discretion of the Court, as costs, and file a like pleading in·
stanter ; or in default thereof, the Court shall proceed with the
cause in the same manner as .if no second pleading had been filed. 
SEC. 269. If a third petition, answer, or reply, be adjudged
insufficient, as above, or the whole or some part be stricken out,
the party filing such pleading shall be taxed fifteen dollars, or a
smaller sum, in the discretion of the Court, as costs, and no further
petition, answer, or reply shall be filed, but judgment shall be rendered, as for want of such pleading. · 
SEc. 270. All motions aaaailing any pleading, shall be in writ­
ing, and filed in the case, and shall specify the causes on which
theyare founded, and no cause not so specified, shall be argued
or considered in support of the motion. 
SEC. 271. Motions assailing · pleadings tor any of the objec­ 
tions. stated in this chapter, shall be regulated as regards the tune
of filing them, as demurrers are. • 
SEC. 279. A motion-after a motion. or a demurrer after a de- 
murrer to the same pleading, shall not be allowed; but each mo­
tion and each demurrer shall state all the objections to any plead­
ing which are intended to be made to it, except that a demurrer,
on the ground of insufficient statement of facts to constitute a
cause ef action, defense, set-off, counterclaim, cross-demand, or
reply, may be filed at any time before answer 01 reply, unless the
points thereof have been already made, or could have been made
in a prior demurrer. 
SEC. 278. A motion assailing any pleading or any count there­
of for any of the objections stated in this chapter, shall suspend
the necessity of any other pleading to such pleading or count,
until the motion shall have been determined, whereupon the
Court shall direct on or before what time the next pleading shall
be filed, the same shall obtain as to a demurrer. 
SEC. 274. All pleadings and demurrers, and all motions made
in writing, shall be filed with the case, and shall be served by de­ 
li v;ery of a copy. Service may be on the party or on his attorney
of record, and service on any attorney of 'record of one copy, shall
affect and be sufficient for all the parties for whom he appears,
and such copy may be served by the attorney or any other per­
son, and the return may be made as to an original notice, and 
such COJ>Y may be waived, in writing, on the original or by any
- pleading, demurrer, or motion filed, or by any argument respon­ 
sive to or upon such original paper; and it shall be the duty of
any attorney, to whom is presented any copy, as above provided,
to acknowledge on the original under his signature such service,
if such paper served be a substantial copy thereof. 
SEC. 275. No motion or demurrer shall be argued until the
morning after that on or before which the same shall have been
filed and served as provided in the preceding section, unless by 
- consent, or unless the case be sooner reached.
SEC. 276. A motion or demurrer once filed shall not be with­ 
drawn, without the consent of the adverse party entered thereon,
or of the Court; in which last case the Court may award to the 
other party costs, as imposed on adjudication thereof, and shall
fix the time of filing the next pleading. 
SEC. 277. The filing of a pleading in the clerk's office, within
the time allowed, and the service of copy thereof, shall be equiva­
lent to a filing in open Court. 
SEC. 278. All technical forms of actions, and of pleading, all 
common counts, general issues, and all fictions are abolished, and
hereafter the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by
which their sufficiency is to be determined, are those prescribed
in this Code. 
SEC. 279. The pleadings are the written statements of the parties of the facts constituting their respective claims and defenses. 
SEc. 280. The only pleadings allowed are, 
1. The petition of the plaintifff,
2. The demurrer or answer by the defendant. 
3. The demurrer or reply by the plaintifff 
4. The demurrer by the defendant. 
SEC. 281. The first pleading by the plaintifff is the petition.
The petition must contain : 
1st. The name of the Court and the County in which the ac­ 
tion is brought. 
2d. The names of' the parties to the action, plaintifffs and de­
fendants, followed by the word petition, if the proceedings are or­
dinary, and by the words petition in equity, if the proceedings
are equitable, 
3d. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition, of the facts constituting the plaintifff's cause of action. 
4th. A demand ot the relief to which the plaintifff considers
himself entitled, and if such demand be for money, the amount 
thereef must be stated .•
5th. Where the petition contains more than one cause of ac­ 
tion, each must be stated wholly in a count by itself, and must be
sufficient in itself; but one prayer for judgment may include a
sum, based on all counts looking to money remedy. 
6th. In a petition by equitable proceedings, each cause of ac­
tion shall also be separated into paragraphs, numbered as such, for
more convenient reference, and each paragraph shall contain, as 
near as may be convenient, a complete and distinct statement. 
SEC. 282. The defendant may demur to the petition only
where it appeals on its face, either, 
1st. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action, or, 
2d. That the plaintifff hes net legal capacity to sue, or,
3d. That there is another action pending between the same 
parties for the same cause, or,
4th. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifffs or defendants, or
5th. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to consti­ 
tute a cause of action, or that it states some fact which avoids the
cause of action, or, 
6th. For causes stated in sections 325, 327, 369 of this chapter.
SEC. 283. The demurrer must distinctly specify and consecu­ 
tively number as the grounds of objection some matter of error,
intended to be argued as defect in the pleading, unless it do so, it
shall be disregarded; and it shall not be enough to state the ob· 
jection in the terms of' the preceeding section, except that a de·
murrer to an equitable petition for the fifth reason of section 282,
may be stated in the terms thereof. 
SEc. 284. When any of the matters enumerated in the section
282 do not appear on the face of the petition, the objection may
be taken by an answer. If no such objection is taken either by
demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, except only the objection that the petition does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or states a fact which
a voids the cause of action. 
SEC. 285. The defendant may demur to one or more of the
several causes of action alleged in the petition and answer, as to
the resldae. 
SEc. 286. The answer shall contain :
1st. The style of the Court, the name of the county, and the 
name of the plaintifffs and defendants, but when there are several
plaintifffs and defendants, it shall be only necessary to give the first 
name of each class, with the words, "and others."
2d. A general denial of each allegation of the petition, or else 
of an:, knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a be­
lief, and may be by. this or any equivalent statement, of the trath
of no allegation of the petition has this defendant knowledge or 
information sufficient to form a belief; or, • 
8d. A. specific denial of each allegation of the petition contro­
verted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief. 
4:th. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in
ordinary and concise language, without repetition. 
5th. A statement of any new matter constituting a set-off, or a
counterclaim, or a cross demand, or a cross-petition, in ordinary 
and concise language, without repetition. ·
6th. The defendant may set forth in his answer as !llany causes 
of deteace, set-off, counterclaim or cross-demand, whether legal
or equitable, as he may have. 
SEC. 287. Matter of defense as distinguished from setoff,
counterclaim, or cross-demand, is either negative, as for example, 
that which contradicts, in whole or in part, some fact proposition
of tlie petition, or it is affirmative, as for example, that which
states new matter either to avoid some fact proposition of the pe­
tition, or to avoid the legal conclusion of the petition, and all such
negative matter, whether wholly or partly so, should be stated in
one division of the answer. 
SEC. 288. Each affirmative matter of defense shall be stated in
a distinct division of the answer, and must be sufficient in itself
and must intelligibly refer to that part of the petition to which it 
is intended to apply.
SEc. 289. In the defense part of an answer or reply, it shall 
not be necessary to make any prayer ot judgment.
SEC. 290. Each matter of set-off, counterclaim or cross-de­ 
mand, or cross-petition, must be specially stated in a distinct di­
vision. 
SEC. 291. An equitable division must be also separated into
parsgraphs and numbered as is required in regard to an equitable
cause ot action in the petition. 
SEC. 292. The defendant may plead as many matters of de­
tence, negative and affirmative, and as many sets-off, counter­
claims, and cross-demands as he may have. 
SEC. 293. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded
on contract, and must be a cause of action arising on contract, or
ascertained by the decision of a Court. 
SEC. 294. A co-maker or surety when sued alone, may, with
the consent ot hie co-maker or principal, avail himself by way of 
· set-off, of a debt or Jiquidated demand due from the plaintifff at 
the commencement of the a.it to such cs-maker or principal, bot
the plaintifff may meet such set-off in the same way ae if made by 
the co-maker or principal himself.
SEC. 295. Where it appears that a new party is necessary to a 
final decision upon a set-off, the Court shall permit the new party
to be made; if it also appears that owing to the insolvency or
non-residence of the plaintifff, or other cause, the defendant will
be in danger of losing his claim unless permitted to use it as a
set-off. 
SEC. 296. The counterclaim must be a cause of action in favor
of the defendants, or some of them, against the plaintifffs, or some
of them, arising out of the contract or transactions set forth in the
petition as the foundation · of the plaintifff's claim, or connected
with the subject of the action. 
SEC. 297. When it appears that a new party is necessary to a
final decision upon a counterclaim, the Court may either permit
the new party to be made, by a notice to reply to the counter­
claim in the answer, or may direct that it be stricken out of the
answer, and made the subject of a separate action. 
SEC. 298. A statement by way of cross-demand is any new
matter constituting any cause of action in favor of the defendant,
or all the defendants if more than one, against the plaintifff, or
all the plaintifffs, if more than one, and which the defendant or
defendants might have brought when suit was commenced, or 
which was then held, either matured or not, if matured when so
plead. 
SEC. 299. When a defendant has a cause of action, affecting
the subject matter of the action, against a co-defendant, or a per­
son not a party to the action, he may make in his answer a cross­
petition against the co-defendant or other person. 
The defendant thereto, may be netifled as in other cases, and
defense thereto shall be made in the time and manner prescribed
in regard to the original petition, and with the same right of ob­
taining provisionable remedies applicable to the case. 
The prosecution of the cross-petition shall not delay the trial of
the original action, when a judgment can be readered therein that
will not prejudice the rights of the parties to the cross-petitioa. 
SEC. 300. The guardian ot an infant or person of unsound . .
mind, or attorney for a per son in prison, must deny in the answer : 
t,' 
all the material allegations of the petition, prejudicial to such de­
fendant. 
SEC. 801. When the facts stated in the answer, or any division
thereof are not sufficient to constitute a defense, set-off, counter­
claim, or cross-demand, the adverse party may demur, and shall
be held therein to the same certainty in the statement of his
grounds therefore, 88 obtains in a demurrer to the petition. 
SEC. 302. There shall be no reply except upon the allegations
of a counterclaim, or set-off, or cross-demand, in the answer. 
SEc. 303. When the answer contains new matter constituting
a set-off, counterclaim or cross-demand, the plaintifff may reply to
such new matter. 1st-Denying generally or specifically, each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information
thereof, sufficient to form a •elief as in case of answer, or 2d-He
may allege in concise and ordinary language, any new matter not 
inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to the set-off,
er-claim or cross-demand. 
SEC. 304. Any number of defenses, negative or affirmati ve,
are pleadable to a set-off, counterclaim or cross-demand. 
SEC. 305. All the negative matter of the reply, whether wholly
or partly so, shall be stated in one division-and each affirmative
matter of defense in the reply, shall be stated in a distinct and
separate division, and shall be sufficient in itself, and must intel­
ligibly refer to the part of the answer to which it is intended to
appiy. A division of equitable matter must also be separated into
paragraphs and numbered 88 required, in case ot such matter in 
a ewer.
SEC. 306. When the facts stated in the reply do not amount 
to a sufficient defense, the defendant may demur, subject te the
same requirements of certainty in statements of grounds thereof,
as obtain in demurrer to the petition. 
SEC. 307. The opposite party shall be deemed to join in a de­
murrer, whenever he shall not amend the pleading to which it is
addressed. 
SEC. 308. In all cases in which a denial is made by answer or 
reply, concerning a time, sum, quantity, or place alleged, the party
denying shall declare whether such denial is applicable to every
time, sum, quantity, or place, or not, and if not, what time, sum,
quantity or place, he admits. 
SEC. 309. The counts of the petition must be consecutively
numbered as such, and so must the divisions of the answer as such,
and of the reply as such. 
SEC. 310. If the matter of the petition, answer or reply, is not
put into distinct counts or divisions and numbered as herein con·
templated, or if one such division contains in the petition more
than one cause of action, or if one division in the answer contains
more than one affirmative defense, or set off', or counterclaim, or
cross-demacd, or if one division in the reply contains more than
one affirmative defense to any set-off, counterclaim, or cross-de­
mand, the party so neglecting to divide and number, may, on mo­
tion, be ordered to divide and number, and the party so pleading
double in the contemplation of this section, may be, on motion, or­ 
dered to elect on which part of such double count or division he will
stand, and to strike out the rest of it-or to re-divide such count 
or division, made bad:by such duplicity. 
SEC. 311. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or
his attorney, and the petition, answer and reply, must each be 
verified by the affidavit of the party to the effect that he believes
the statements thereof to be true. 
SEC. 312. Where a corporation is a party, tlle affidavit may be
made by any officer thereof. 
SEC. 313. When there are several parties united in interest,
the affidavit may be made by any one of them. 
SEC. 314. If the pleading be founded on a written instrument,
for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney, the affidavit may be made by 
such agent or attorney. 
SEC. 315. If the statements of the pleading are known to any
person other than the party, such person may make the affidavit. 
SEC. 316. When the affidavit is made by another than the party,
it must also contain averments showing the afliant competent to
make the affidavit according to the feregoing provisions. 
SEC. 317. The verification shall not be required to the answer
of a guardian, of an infant, or person ot unsound mind, or a pris­ 
oner. 
SEC. 318. The verification shall not be required when the ad­
mission of' the truth of the allegations of the petition or answer
might subject the party to a criminal or penal prosecution, and
when it. can be seen from the pleading to be answered, that an ad­
mission ofthe truth of its allegations might s9 subject the party,
his general affidavit that such might be the effect of the admission
without stating the facts leading him te such a conclusion, shall
be received, in lieu of a verification of the pleading. 
SEC. 819. Verification shall not be required to a pleading
grounded on an injury to the person or the character. 
SEC. 320. The affidavit of verification may be made before any '
person, either within or without this State, duly qualified to ad­
minister an oath, and must be signed by the person making the 
same, and the officer before whom the same is taken, shall certify
that it was signed in his presence by the person (naming him) and
by llim, before such officer sworn to or affirmed. That purporting
to be the certificate of such officer, as signed officially, if made
within this State, shall be prim« facie evidence that it is such cer­
tificate, and that its averments are true, and if made without this
State shall be so taken, when made before any one, by our law
qualified to take depositions, but if taken before any officer not se
qaalified, his official certificate must be authenticated as is required
by section -- of this Code. 
SEC. 821. The verification ot the pleading does not apply to
the amount claimed, except in aetiens founded on contract, express
or implied, for the payme~t of money only. 
SEC. 322. The verification shall not make other or greater
proof necessary on the side of the adverse party. 
SEC. 823. If a pleading be not duly verified, it may be struck
out, on motion, but such defect will be deemed waived if the other 
party respond thereto, or proceed to trial without such motion.
SEC. 324. Every material allegation ef the petition not con­ 
troverted by the answer, and every material allegation in the an­
swer of new matter, constituting a set-off, counterclaim or cross­
demand, not controverted by the reply, must for the purposes of
the action, be taken as true. But the allecations of new matter
in the answer, not relating to a set-off, counterclaim or cross-de­
mand, or ot new matter in a reply, is to be deemed co:ntreverted
by the ad verse party as upon a direct denial or avoidance as the
case may require. An allegation of value, or of aaount of dam- 
age, shall not be deemed true by a failure to controvert it, anti an
averment that, of the truth of any stated allegation or allegations
the party has not sufficient knowledge or information to form a
belief, shall be deemed a sufficient denial to prevent the same from
being taken as true. A party desiring to admit any allegations of
tact, which by this section would otherwise be deemed controver­
ted by mere force of law, may at any time file a written admis- 
sion thereof. ·
SEC. 325. It the action, ~et-off, counterclaim or cross-demand, 
is founded on an account, a bill of particulars must be incorpor­
ated into, or attached to, and filed with the pleading, or such 
pleading will be demurrable, and if not incorporated into it-must
be verified as the pleading. And if the same be not a statement
of such particulars as may be necessary to gi!e the Court and the
other party, reasonable knowledge of the nature and the grounds
of the cause of action, set-off counterclaim or cross-demand, the
Court may, on motion, order it to be made more specific. Such
bill of particulars shall be deemed a part of the pleadings to which
it is annexed, and shall be answered or replied to as such, and as
such shall define and limit the proof, subject, however, to amend­
ment as hereafter provided. The items of a bill of particulars
shall be consecutively numbered, and the party adverse shall an­
swer specifically every item; but he may make one and the same
allegation or denial concerning any number of items to which
such allegation of denial is applicable, specifying the number of
the items thus answered together, when less than the whole . 
SEC. 326. If the adverse party shall 'deny that any item is due
or payable, or that he owes the party as alleged, he must state all
the substantive grounds on which he rests such denial, and shall
specify whether some, and what part of the whole, of such item
or demand is deaied, 
SEC. 327. If the action, set off, counterclaim or cross-demand
is founded on a note, bill, bond, or other writing, as evidence of
indebtedness, a copy thereof must be set out in or annexed to the
pleading, if in the power of the party to procure it. If not so done,
the reason thereof' must be stated in the pleading. If there be no
such copy so· set out or annexed, and no sufficient reason stated for
such omission, it will be sufficient ground for a demurrer to such
pleading. Such pleading must be sufficient in itself, in its aver­ 
ment of facts .. constituting a cause of action, set off, counterclaim 
or cross-demand, without such copy, and such copy shall in no
manner aid as a pleading the averments of the pleading, in which
it is set out by copy, or to which it is so annexed. 
SEC. 328. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a
Court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or deter­
mination may be stated to have been duly given or made. 
SEC. 329. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent
in a contract whether such conditions are expressed or implied, it
shall not be necessary to state the facts constituting such perform­
ance, but a general statement tltat the party duly performed all the 
conditions on his part, or to that substantial effect, shall be suffi­
cient. 
SEC. 830. A plaintifff' suing as a corporation, partnership, exec­
utor, guardian, or in any other way, implying corporate, partner­
ship, representative, or other than individual capacity, need not
state the facts constituting such capacity or relation, but may aver
generally, or as a legal conclusion, such capacity or relation; and
where a defendant is held in such capacity or relation, a plaintifff
may aver such capacity or relation, in the same general way. 
SEC. 331. If the general allegation comtemplated in the three
preceding sections is made in a petition, and is not controverted in
the answer, or made in the answer in relation to a set off, counter­
claim or cross-demand, and not controverted in the reply, each
allegation not so controverted shall, on the trial, be taken as true. 
SEC. 332. If either of the allegations contemplated in sections
326, 327 or 328, is intended to be controverted, it shall not be 
sufficient to controvert it in terms of the allegation. contradictory
of the general proposition intended to be controverted, but it is
necessary to state specifically the facts relied on as a denial of such
proposition. 
SEC. 333. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived there­
from, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and
the day of its passage, and the Court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof. 
SEC. 334. In an action for slander or libel, it shall not be nec­
essary to state ia the petition any extrinsic fact for tlie purpose of
showing the application to the plaintifff of any defamatory matter
out of which the cause of action arose, but it shall be sufficient to
state generally that the same was spoken or published concerning 
the plaintifff, nor shall it be necessary to state any prefatory or ex­
trinsic fact for the purpose of showing that such words were used
in a defamatory sense, but it shall be sufficient generally to state
that the words or matter were used in a defamatory sense, specify­
ing such defamatory sense, and where the words or matter set forth,
with or without the alleged meaning, show a cause of action, ,it
shall be sufficient. 
SEC. 335. In actions of slander or libel, the defendant may, in
his answer, allege both. the truth of the matter charged as defama­
tory, and any mitigating circumstances sufficient in law to reduce
the amount of damages ; or he may allege either one of these with­
out the other, and the allegation of the truth of the matter charged
shall not, if the defendant fail to establish it, be deemed, in itself
preof of the malice of such words, but the jury shall decide upon
the whole case, whether such defense was, or was not, made with
malicious intent, and whether he prove the justification or not, he
may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances, but each de­
fence must be separately stated and numbered, and if the defend­ 
ant relies on more than one mitigating circumstance sufficient in
law to reduce the amount of damages, each of such circumstances
must be separately stated and numbered, and sufficient in itself,
and if the defendant relies on the truth of the matter charged,
nothing herein is intended to relax the law of pleading heretofore
in force, as regards the certainty of statement required in such a 
mode of defense. '
SEC. 336. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an action 
who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of
either ot the parties to the action, or an interest against both. An
intervention takes place when a third party is permitted to become
a party to an action between other persons, either by joining the
plaintifff in claiming what is sought by the petition, or by uniting
with the defendant in resisting the claim of the plaintifff, or by de­
manding anything adversely to both the plaintifff and defendant.
A third person may intervene either before or after issue has been
joined in the cause, and before the trial commences. 
SEC. 337. The Oourt shall determine upon the intervention at
the same time that the action is decided, and the intervenor has no
richt to delay; and if the claim of the intervenor is not sustained,
he shall pay all costs ot the intervention. 
SEC. 338. The intervention shall be by petition filed in the 
Court in which the action is pending, and it must set forth the facts
constituting the grounds on which the intervention rests, and shall
be taken notice of by the adverse party, as any other pleading, on
being served by copy, and shall be responded to in the time which
is allowed for other pleadings of the kind used in such response,
and all the pleadings therein shall be governed by the same prin
ciples and rules as obtain in other pleadings provided for in this 
Chapter. But if such petition is filed during term, the Court shall
direct the time in which an answer shall be filed thereto. 
SEc. 339. In a proceeding against a married woman, growing
out of any contract which she may have the lega1. right to make,
the pleading need not state facts constituting a cause against her
with respect to her separate property, but need only state facts
constituting a cause of action, or set off, or counterclaim, or cross­
demand, against her as a person, and judgment shall be personal. 
SEc. 340. One cause of action, defense, set off, counterclaim,
cross-demand or reply, shall be expressed in but one statement,
and not in various counts or divisions. If such be done, the adverse
party may have to strike out a11 but one ef such counts or divisions,
supporting his motion by an affidavit that the same are for only
one cause of action, whereupon the other party shall either so strike
out at the cost of the motion, or declining, must show on the trial
as many distinct causes as he has counts or di visions, or shall pay 
all the costs of the whole trial. 
SEc. 341. Where a transaction has taken place between th'e
plaintifff and defendant, constituting fn favor of the plaintifff a cause
of' action against the detendant, and where another contemporane­
ous or subsequent transaction growing out of and based upon the
former transaction, has also taken place between them, which may
or may not have operated a merger or displacement of the former 
cause of action-then, if such plaintifff is not clear upon which ot
such transactions he is entitled to recover, he may state in his
petition, in distinct counts, the facts constituting each of such causes
of action, and may pray the reliet proper to each cause of action,
and must also state that he claims to recover but for one ef such
causes; whereupon the defendant may allow judgment to go against
him on either ot such causes in bar of the other; or if the defend­
ant contests both of such cuuses, the plaintifff may, on proper proof,
recover on either, or having obtained verdict on both, may state 
on which one he will have judgment, 'which judgment shall be in
bar of the other. 
The same principles shall obtain in regard to a set off, counter­
claim or cross-demand. 
SEC. 342. Where a transaction has occurred, and if certain facts
thereof should be proved, such proof wo~ld entitle the plaintifff to
one kind or degree of relief, while if other facts thereof were proved,
such proof would entitle the plaintifff to another kind or degree ot
relief; then it the plaintifff cannot determine which group of facts
he can prove, but believes he can prove the one or the other of
such groups, he may state as cause of action in distinct counts, each 
ot such group of tacts, with the relief which he demands thereon, and
that he asks judgment only on one of such group of facts. Where­
upon the parties shall have the same rights, and the same proceed­
ings may be had as are provided for in section 341, and the verifi­
cation of the causes ot action of this section shall be in effect that
the p1aintiff believes one or the other of them true, but cannot
determine which. 
SEc. 343. Contradictory causes of defense or reply may be
stated in an answer or. reply, when the pleading is verified, to the 
same effect as required in the last section.
SEC. 344. Two or more parties making the same defense or 
reply, may do so jointly.
SEc. 345. The pleading may include one count only when the 
same contract was made by each of the adverse parties, but must
include different counts describing the different contracts of the
adverse parties, when, as in the case of maker and endorser, the 
sme contract was not made by all.
SEC. 346. Whenever a party claims a right derogatory from 
the general law, or when his claim is founded upon an exception
of any kind, he shall set forth such c1aim or such exception partic­
ularly in his pleading. 
Sec. 347. Propositions which state matters of law, as contra­
distinguished from those which state matters of fact, must not be
stated in a pleading, but if a proposition which has a meaning 
which would make it matter of law, has also another and a com­
mon sense meaning, which would make it matter of fact, it shall
be taken in the latter meaning and shall be deemed a proposition
of fact. 
Sec. 348. Any defense showing that a contract, written or
oral, or any instrument sued on, is void or voidable; or the fact
that the alleged instrument was delivered to a third person, as an
escrow, or showing matter of justification, excuse, discharge, or
release, and any cause of defense which admits the facts of the
adverse pleading, but by some other matter seeks to avoid their
legal effect, must be specially pleaded. 
Sec. 349. Any defense that admits that an allegation of the
other pleading is true, as an allegation of fact, but assumes that it 
is not true as an allegation of law, and seeks to avoid it by new
matter, must be specially pleaded. · 
Sec. 350. Under a mere denial of an allegation, no evidence.
shall be introduced by, the party so denying, which- does not tend
to negative such an allegation of fact, or to negative some propo­
sition of fact, as contradistinguished from one of law, which the
party having made the controverted allegation, is bound to prove,
in order to sustain such allegation. 
Sec. 351. Propositions which are statements of evidence, as
contradistinguished from propositions which are statements of the 
ultimate results of evidence, should not be stated in any pleading.
Sec. 352. The Court may, on motion of any person aggrieved 
thereby, cause irrelevant or redundant matter to be stricken from
any pleadings, at the cost· ot any party, whose pleading contains 
them. 
Sec. 353. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential
to the claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient. · 
Sec. 354. When the facts on which any pleading is founded,
are stated in a manner so general, or so indefinite, or so uncertain
that the precise nature of the cause of action, or defense, or set­
off, or counterclaim, or cross demand is not so apparent as to en­
able the adverse party to respond intelligibly thereto, the Court
may, on motion, require the pleading to be 'made more specific,
definite, and certain hy amendment, and no pleading which re­ 
cites or refers to a contract, shall be deemed s,nfficiently specific, 
unless it states whether the same is in writing or not.
Such motion shall point out wherein the amendment is required 
or shall be disregarded, and it the reason for such demand of more
specific statement exists outside of the pleadings, the motion must
state the same and be sworn to. 
Sec. 855. The title ot a cause shall not be changed in any of iti
stages of transit from one Court to another. 
Sec. 856. Matters of which judicial notice is taken, need not 
be ststed in a pleading. 
Sec. 857. In the construction ot pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegation& shall be liberally construed,
with a view to substantive justice between the parties. 
Sec. 358. When a party claims by conveyance, he may state
it according to its. legal effeet or name. 
Sec. 859. When a party claims by inheritance, either by im­
mediate or mediate descent, he shall allege how he is heir, as- son, 
nephew, or otherwise.
Sec. 360. It shall not be necessary to allege the commence­ 
ment of either a particular or of a superior estate, unless it be 
essential to the merits of the case.
Sec. 361. When time forms a material point in the merits of 
a cause, the day, month, and year, or when there is a continued
act, the period of its duration must be alleged. When time is not
material, it need not be stated, and if stated, need not be proved. 
Sec. 362. In actions for injuries to goods and chattels, their
kind or species shall be alleged. 
Sec. 363. It shall be neceasary to allege a place, only when it
is descriptive of the eubject matter of the action, and f•rms a pa.rt
of the substance of the issue. 
SEC. 364. In actions for injuries to real property, the party
shall describe the property, and when the injury is to an incorpo­
real hereditament, shall describe the property in respect of which 
the riiht is claimed, as well as the right itself, either by the name
by which the property is designated in the national survey, or by 
its abutals, or by its courses and distances, orby any name which
it has acquired by reputation, certain enough to identify it. 
Sec. 165. When the party intends to prove malice, to affect
damages, be mut aver the same. 
Sec. 366. In an action, se~ff, ecnnter-claim, or cross-demand,
on a bond with conditions, the party suing thereon 1hall, in his
pleading, notice the condition, and allege fact.a constituting the
breach. or breaches relied on. 
Sec. 367. When a plea.ding shows affirmatively, that ite cause
of claim is barred by the, s~tute of limitations, it may be assailed
by demurrer. 
Sec. 868. When the defendant pleads the statute of limita­
tions, responding to such plea the defendant may, witheut leave 
or cost, or incurring delay, amend his petition, by a count averring
as another cause of action, the proper admission or new promise,
with what other matter may be necessary to constitute snfliclen t
cause of such claim, and the plaintifff may recover on either of
such claims as lie may show himself entitled. But he may in the
tirst instance, rely on anti state as cause of action, the matter dis­
placing the bar of the statute as contemplated in the amendment
herein stated. 
Sec. 869. When any pleading shows affirmatively, that its
cause of claim should be evidenced by writing, according to the
law of evidence, and that the same is not BO evidenced, it may be 
assailed by demurrer.
Sec. 370. Where such cause of action, set-off, counterclaim, or 
cross-demand, as should be evidenced by writing, is so evidenced,
then the same must be stated to be so, and the writing, or a copy
thereof, must be annexed to the pleading, else it shall not be re­
ceived in proof on trial. 
Sec. 371. All statements which need not be proved to any ex­
tent at all, such as the statement of time, quantity, quality, and
value, when these are immaterial, the statement of :finding and
losing, and bailment in action for goods, or their value ; · the state­
ment of promises which were not in fact made, and which need
not be proved, and all statements of a like kind, shall be omitted. 
Sec. 372. If a party state more facts, or a greater title or estate
than is necessary to entitle him to the relief claimed, and such
facts, estates, or title be denied to the full extent, he shall not be 
compelled to proTe more than is necessary to constitute a claim to
the relief prayed, or t• a.ny lower degree of relief, included in the
relief prayed. And if a party states in his answer or teply, more
than is needed for his defense, he shall not be compelled to prove
more than is needed for his defense. 
Sec. 878. When the action, defense, set-off, counterclaim or
cross-demand is founded on a written instrument, and the original
is referred to in a pleading, and annexed thereto, the genuineness
and due execution of sneh inatrument shall be deemed admitted,
unless the adverse party in response to such pleading, if it is one
which may be responded to, and if it be not, then before the trial
deny the genuineness of execution of' the same by affidavit; and 
when any other writing, purporting to have been executed. by one
of the parties is referred to in, and filed with a pleading, it may
be read against such party as genuine and duly executed, unless
he denies the same by affidavit, before the trial is begun. 
Sec. 874. Either party may be allowed, on motion, to make
a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts materal to
the case, which have happened or have come to his knowledge 
since the filing of the former petition, answer, or reply, nor shall
such new pleading be considered a waiver of former pleadings. 
Sec. 875. Matter in abatement may be stated in the answer or
reply, as one or more of the causes of defense or reply. Ei{her
together with or without other causes of defense ht. bar, and no
one of such causes shall be deemed to overrule the other ; nor
shall a party after trial, on matter of abatement, be allowed in the
same action to answer er reply matter in bar. 
Sec. 376. Any defense arising after the commencement of any
action, shall be stated according to the fact, without any formal
commencement or conclusion, and any answer which does not
state whether the defense therein set up arose before or after ac­
tion, shall be deemed to be of matter arising before 'action. 
Sec. 377. The forms contained in Schedule A. to this act an­
nexed shall be sufficient, and those and the like forms may be used 
with such modifications as may be necessary to meet the facts of
the case ; but nothing herein contained shall render it erroneous
or irregular to depart from the letter of such forms so long as-the
substance is expressed without prolixity. 
Sec. 378. No variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof is to be deemed 1naterial, unless it has actually mis­
led the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or
defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has
been so misled, that fact must be shown by proof aliunde to the
satisfaction of the Court, and such proof must also show in what
respect he has been so misled, and thereupon the Court may order
the pleading to be amended upon such terms as may be iust. 
Sec. 379. When the variance .s not material as provided in the
· last section, the Court may direct the fact to be found according 
to the. evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without
costs. 
Sec. 380. When, however, the allegation of the claim or de­
fence to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some par- 
· ticular or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning,
it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure ot proof.
Sec. 381. The plaintifff may amend his petition without leave, 
at any time before the answer is filed, without prejudice to the
proceedings already had; but a copy of such amendment shall be ·
served on the defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall
have the same time to answer or demur thereto as he had to the
original petition. 
Sec. 382. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party demur­
ring may answer or reply. 
Sec. 383. The Court may at any time in furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or pro­
ceedings by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting & mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case,
or when the amendment does not change substantially. the claim
or defense by conforming the pleadings or proceedings to the facts
proved. The Court may likewise in its discretion, on terms, and
for good cause proved, allow an answer or reply to be filed after
the time limited by this Code, when such time has not been by
order extended. And whenever any proceeding taken by a party,
fails, in any respect to conform to the provisions of this Code, it
may permit an amendment of such proceeding so as to make it 
conformable thereto.
Sec. 384. The Court must in every stage of an action, disre­ 
gard any error or defect in the proceeding which does not affect
the substantial rigats of the adverse party \ and no judgment shall 
be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Sec. 385. When either party shall amend any pleading or pro­ 
ceeding, the case shall not be continued in consequence thereof,
unless the Court shall be satisfied by affida,'it or otherwise, that
the adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence of
such amendment. But if the Court is thus made to become satisfied
a continuance may be granted to some day in the same term, or to.
the next term of said Court. 
Sec. 386. Whenever two or more actions are pending in the 
same court which might have been joined, the defendant may, on 
motion, and notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause 
why the same shall not be consolidated, and if no sufficient came
be shown, the same shall be consolidated. 
Sec. 387. Courts may permit the amendments authorized by
this chapter to be made, without being verified as prescribed in section 811, unless a new and distinct cause ot action, defense,
set-off, counterclaim or eross-demand is there by introduced. 
Sec. 388. If an original pleading be lost or withheld by any
one, the Oourt may order a copy thereof to be substituted. 
Sec. 389. All matters of supplement or amendment, whether
of addition or subtraction, shall be made not by erasure or inter­
lineation of the original, or by addition thereto, but upon a sepa­
rate paper, which shall be filed, and shall constitute, with the orig­
inal, but one pleading. But if it be stated in such paper that it is
a ·substitute for the former pleading intended to be amended, in
that case, it shall be deemed such substitute, but the pleading su­
perseded by the substitute, shall not be withdrawn from the files. 
Sec. 390. No process, pleading or record shall be amended or
impaired by the Clerk or other officer ot the Court, or by any person
without the order of .such Court, or of some Court of competent
authority. 
Sec. 891. Either party may annex to his petition answer or
reply, written interrogatories to any one or more of the adverse
parties concerning any of the material matters in issue in the ae
tion, the answer to which on oath may be read by either party as
a deposition between the 'Party interrogating and the party an­
swering. 
Sec. 392. The par~ answering shall not be confined to re­
sponding merely to the interrogatories, but may state any new
matter concerning the same cause of action which shall likewise 
be read as a deposition.
Sec. 893. These shall be answered at the same time the peti - 
tion is required to be answered; and when annexed to the answer
or reply, shall be answered at or before the calling of the cause for
trial, if such pleading has been filed "four" clear days. ' 
Sec. 394. The trial of an action by ordinary proceedings, shall
not be postponed on account of the failure to answer interrogato­
ries, if the party interrogated is present in court at the trial, so
that he may be orally examined; nor, in case of his absence, un- 
less an affidavit be filed showing the facts, the party believes will
be proved by the answers thereto, and that the party has not filed
the interrogatories for the purpose of delay ; whereupon, if the 
party will consent that the facts stated in the afflda,-it shall be con­
sidered as admitted by those interrogated, the · trial sball not be
postponed for that cause. 
Sec. 395. The party in answering nch interrogatories, shall
distinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal knowl­
edge, and what is stated from information or belief merely. An
unqualified statement of a fact shall be considered as made of hie
personal knowledge. 
Sec. 896. The answers to the interrogatories shall be verified
by the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect that the st&te­
mente in them made of his own personal knowledge a~ true, and
those made from the information of others, he believes to be true. 
Sec. 397. Where a party tiling interrogatories shall also file
a.n affidavit that he verily believes the subject of the interrogato­
ries, or any of them, ie in the personal knowledge of the opposite
party, and tbat his answers thereto, if trulj' made from such
knowledge, will sustain the claim or defense, or any .part thereof,
and the opposite party shall fail to answer therein within the time
allowed therefore, or by the court extended the claim or defense, or
the part thereof, according to sueh affidavit, shall be deemed to De 
sustained, judgment given accordingly.
Sec. 398. The Oourt may compel answera to . iaterrogatories, 
by process of contempt, and may, on the failure of the party to
answer them after reasonable time allowed therefore, dismiss the
petition, or quash the aaswer of the party so tailing. 
Sec. 391. Issues arise in the pleadings where a fact or conclu­
sion of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the
other. They are of two kinds; let, of Law-2d, of Fact. 
Sec. 392. An issue of faot arises, 1st-Upon a material allega­
tion of factIn the petition denied by the answer. 2d-Upon a 
material allegation of fact in a set-off, counterclaim or cross-de- 
mand, presented in the answer and denied by the reply. 8d­
U pon allegations of fact being new matter, in the answer or reply,
which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite . party
without furthe:r pleading. 
SEC. 893. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the peti­
tion, answer, or reply, or to some part of either, or upon any alle­
gation of fact in a pleading by the one party, the truth of :which is
neither controverted by the other party, nor by the law for him. 
Sec. 894. Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different
parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues
of law must be first tried; but by going to trial on an issue of
fact without objection, a party will be deemed to have waived his
demurrer. 
Sec. 895. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues in an
action, whether they be issuee of law or of fact. 
Sec. 396. Issues ef law must be tried by the Court unless re­
terred as provided in section 4:87. An Issue of fact in an action
by ordinary proceedings, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury
trial shall be waived, as provided in section 485, or a reference be
ordered, as provided in section 488. 
Sec. 397. Equitable issues may be tried according to two dis­
tinct methods, called, first and secondly, methods of equitable tri­
als, and these methods shall differ one from the other in the fol­
lowing partiealars, and none others : 
First-As to the form of evidence. In all cases tried according 
to the first method, all the evidence shall be in writing ; while in
those cases tried by the second method, the evidence shall be as in
ordinary actions. 
Second-As to who may determine the tacts therein. In a trial 
by the first method, the issues shall be tried by the Court, who
may, however, to inform his conscience, order the whole issue or
any part thereof or any specific question of fact involved therein
to be tried by a jury, or may refer the same, and may in either
case accept or reject the finding of the jury or referee, and may
with or without a statement of any finding of facts, render such
judgment as he considers equitable. 
While in a trial by the second method, either party shall be en­
titled to have the whole issue or any part thereof, or any specific
question of fact involved therein, tried by a jury under the in­
structions of the Court, as in a case by ordinary proceedings, or 
to have the same tried by the Court acting as a jury, 'and finding
in writing the facts, which finding of facts in either case shall be
of ultimate facts and not of evidence of such facts, and shall be
stated on the record as a special verdict, and the judgment of the
Court shall be ;he legal conclusions based upon and supported by
the facts so found as herein contemplated. 
Third-As to what is triable on appeal. In an appeal taken on a 
case tried in the first method, all the evidence shall go to the Su­
preme Court, which shall try the case Oil both the law and facts
as apparent of record. 
While in cases tried by the second method, no evidence shall,
on appeal, go to the Supreme Court, and such court shall try only
the legal errors thereof, duly presented, as in a case by ordinary
proceedings, including the sufficiency of the facts statea on the
record, as the basis of' the judgment to warrant the same. 
Sec. 398. The first method shall obtain in all cases, except, let
-In divorce cases. id-In foreclosure of tax-title cases, - and of 
mortgages. 8d-ln default cases. ith-In cases where all the 
parties thereto consent to try by the second method, in which ca­ 
ses the second method shall obtain.
SEC. 399. The consent in the last section contemplated, must 
be expressed in open court, and entered of record, or must be in
writing and signed by the parties or the attorney of the parties,
and filed in the cause. 
Sec. 400. The plaintiffl' in his petition, or the defendant in his
answer, may atate his coasent to try the case by the second method,
and if the other party, within ten days thereafter, filed his con­
sent thereto in t~e Clerk's Office, the cause shall be so tried. 
Sec. 401. Or if all the parties at any time before trial enter
into such consent, the cause shall be so tried. 
Sec. 402. A civil cause shall not be tried save by consent ot
the bar, in any other order than that in which it stands upon the
docket. 
Sec. 408. The clerk shall keep a calendar of all the causes
pending in his court-arranging in one part thereof, criminal
causes, in the order of their_ commencement-in another part
thereof, ordinary actions, in the same order-and in another,
equitable actions, in the same order-and shall enter the causes
thereen as soon as the same are commenced, by the filing of the
petition or transcript therein, and shall, under the direction of the 
Court or judge, apportioa the same to as many days of the term,
as shall be thought necessary, and shall on the order of any party,
in any cause, issue subpoenas for witnesses· returnable on the day on which such cause is set for trial, and the clerk shall fur­
nish at such term, the Court and the bar; each, with a copy of
such calendar. 
Sec. 404. The criminal causes shall first be called in their
order, and disposed of by trial, or continuance, in such order, and
after the civil calendar is entered upon, no criminal cause shall be
allowed to intervene. But the Court shall not protract the trial of
the civil causes beyond a day of the term· after which all defend­
ants in criminal causes who desire to be tried at such term, m~y be
so tried-during which re-entry upon the criminal calendar, the
causes shall be tried, or continued, in their order. 
Sec. 405. Except when otherwise provided, causes shall be
tried at the first term after due legal and timely service has been
made, unless reasonable cause for a continuance be shown, 
Sec. 406. When time is asked for making application tor a con­
tinuance, the cause shall not lose its place on the calendar, or it 
may be continued at the option of the other pa.rty, and at the cost
of the party applying therefore-for which eest judgment may at
once be entered by the Clerk, unless the contrary be ~reed be­
tween the parties. 
Sec. 407. A continuance shall not be granted for any cause
growing out of the fault or negligence of the party applying there­
for; subject to this rule, it may be allowed for any cause whieh
satisfies the Court that su\,stantial justice will thereby be more
nearly obtained. , 
SEC. 408. Motions for continuance on account of the absence of
evidence, must be founded on the· affidavit of the party, hia agent,
or Attorney, stating facts as distinguished from legal conclusions
which show the materiality of the evidence sought to be obtained,
and showing that efforts which constitute due diligence have been
used to obtain its presence. 
Sec. 409. If such motion 'be on accouu.t of the absence of a wit·
ness, the affidavit so sworn to, as in the last section, must state,
lst.-The name and residence of such witness, or if that be not 
known, a sufficient reason why not known, and also, in either case,
facts showing reasonable ground of belief that hia attendance or 
testimony will be procured at the next term. 2d~It must atso 
state efforts constituting due diligence which have been used to
obtain such witness or his testimony. 8d-It must also state what
particular facts, as distinguished from legal conclusions, the afflant
believes the witness will proTe, and that the atliant believes them
to be true, and that . he knows of no other witness by whom such
facts can be fully proved. 
Sec. 410. If the affidavit does not contain a sufficient statement 
of the facts herein required, the Oourt shall overrule the same, as
insufficient in statement of facts. 
Sec. 411. It on the oontrary, the Oourt finda the statement euf­
fieient, it shall so determine, and the cause shall be continued,
unless the opposite party will admit that t~ witness, if present,
would swear to the facts thus stated, in which event the cause shall
not be continued, but the party moving therefore shall read as the
evidence _of such witness, the facts by the Court held to be suffi­
ciently stated. 
Sec. 412. The motion must be filed on the first day of the term,
if it is then certain that it will have to be made before the trial,
and as soon thereafter as it becomes certain that it will so need to 
be made, and shall not be allowed to be made when the cause is 
called for trial, except for cause which could not, by reasaonble
diligence, have been before that time discovered; and if made after
the first day of the term, the affidavit must state facts eonstituting 
an· excuse for the delay in making it. If time is taken- when the
case is called to make such motion, the motion shall be made and
determined as soon as the Court opens after the next ordinary 
adjournment.
Sec. 418. The application shall not be amended but once, un­ 
less by permission, and to supply a clerical omission,
Sec. 414. To such motion, both as priginal: aa~ as amended, 
the adverse party may at once, or withi~ mich 1'8;1l>m~ble time as
the Oourt shall allow, file written objOctieiu~:~tAti\lg £vhetein he
claims that the same is insufficient, and:o}l. st10h • .moltoii and objec­
tions no argument shall lte heard, unless the Oourt desire it. 
Sec. 415. Such motion and objections shall be a part of the
record, and error in refusing a continuance, or in compelling an
election, may be reviewed. 
Sec. 416. No copy need be served ef a motion for continuance,
or of objections thereto, but a notice Gf such motion shall be served
-or the filing of the same shall be announced ln open Oourt. 
Sec. 417. Every continuance granted upon the application of
either party, shall be at the costs of such party, unless otherwise
ordered by the Court. 
Sec. 418. The Court shall grant eontinuaneea whenever the
parties agree thereto, and provide as to costs as may be stipulated. 
Sec. 419. ·The marriage of a party is no sufficient ground, of
· itself, for a continuance. 
Sec. 420. A case continued remains for all purposes except a
trial on the facts. 
Sec. 421. Where the defenses are distinct, any one of several
detendants may continue 88 to himself. 
Sec. 422. A separate trial between the plaintifff and any or all
of several defendants, may· be allowed by the Court, whenever, in
its opinion, justice will be thereby promoted. · 
Sec. 423. Where there are several causes of action united in a
petition, or where in any controversy there are several issues, and
the Court shell be of opinion that all or any of them should be tried
separately by the Uourt or jury, it may direct such separate trial,
and such separate trial may be had at the same, or at different
terms of the Court, as circumstances in the discretion of the Court 
may require.
Sec. 424. When a jury trial is demanded, the Clerk shall select 
twelve jurors by lot, from the regular panel.
Sec. 425. A challenge is an objection made to the trial jurors, 
and is of two kinds : 
First-To the panel;
Second-To an individual juror.
Sec. 426. Where there are several parties, plaintifffs or defend­ 
ants, and no separate trial is allowed, they are not allowed to sever
their challenges, but IDJlBUoin-in them. 
Sec. 427., A ohalle~g~ to the panel can be founded only on a
material de;partme from t1:io forms prescribed 'by Statute in respect 
to the drawinM,alld ~~urn :of the jury. 
Sec. 428. A challenge to the panel must be taken before a jury
is sworn, and must be in writing, specifying plainly and distinctly 
the facta constituting the ground of challenge.
Sec. 429. A challenge to the panel may be taken by either 
party, and upon the trial thereof, the officers, whether judicial or
ministerial, whose irregularity is complained of, as well as any 
other persons, may be examined to prove or disprove the facts
alleged as the ground of the challenge. 
Sec. 430. If the facts of the challenge be allowed by the Court,
the jury must be discharged, so fa! as the trial in· question is con
cerned ; if it be disallowed, the Court shall direct the jury to be
empanneled. 
Sec. 431. A challenge to an individual juror is either peremp­
tory or for cause. 
Sec. 482. It must be taken when the juror appears, and before
he is sworn, but the Court may, for good cause, permit it to be
taken after the juror is sworn, and. before the jury is completed. 
Sec. 433. A peremptory challenge is an objection to a juror for
which no reason need be given, but upon which the Court may
exclude him. 
Sec. 434. Each party shall have the right to challenge peremp­
torily, five jurors, and no more, and the plaintifff first, and after­
wards the defendant, shall complete his challenges for cause, and
shall then, in turn, in the same order, exercise the right of peremp­
tory challenge. 
SEC. 435. After each challenge, the vacancy shall, it required,
be filled before further challenges are made, and any new juror 
thus introduced, may be challenged for cause, as well as peremp­
torily. A challenge for cause is an objection to a particular juror, 
and is eitherFvrst-General, that the juror is disqualified from serving in any 
case; or
&cond-Particular, that he is disqualified in the case on trial.
Sec. 436. General causes of challenge are : 
FirBt-A conviction for felony.
Second-A want of any of the qualifications preseribedby Stat­ 
ute to render a person a competent juror.
%ird-Unsoundness of mind, or such defects in the faculties of 
the mind or the organs of the body, as render him incapable of
performing the duties of a juror. 
Sec. 487. Particular causes of challenge are of two kinds: 
First-For such a bias as, when the existence of the fact is ascer­
tained, in judgment of law disqualifies the juror, and which is
known in this Chapter as implied bias. 
Second-For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the
jnrer in. reference to the case, which, in the exercise of a souad dis- 
cretion, leads to the inference that he will not act wit;h entire impartiality, and which is actual bias. - 
SEC. 438. A challenge for implied biaa may be taken for all or 
any of the following causes, and for no other :
Firat-Consanguinity of affinity within the ninth degree, to the 
adverse party.
Second-Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney 
and client, master and servant, or landlord and tenant, or being a
member of the family, or in the employment of the adverse party. 
Jl?ird-Being a party adverse to the adrerse party in a civil
action, or having complained against, or been accused by him in a
criminal prosecution. 
Fourth-Having sat already upon the trial of the same issues.
Fifth-Having served as a grand juror, or a petit juror, in a 
criminal case based upon the same transaction.
Sii/Jtn,-HaTing formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or 
belief as regards the liability ot the adverse party, or on the merits
of the controversy. 
Sec. 439. AB exemption from service on a jury is not a cause 
of challenge, but the privilege of the person exempted.
Sec. 440. Upon the trial of a challenge to an individual juror, 
the juror challenged may be .examined as a witness to prove or dis­
prove the challenge, and must answer every question pertinent to
the inquiry thereon. - 
Sec. 441. In all challenges, the Court shall determine the law 
and the fact, and must either allow or disallow the challenge.
Sec. 442. When the requisite number of jurors cannot other­ 
wise be obtained, the Sheri1F shall select taleamea to. supply the
deficiency, from the body of the county. 
Sec. 443. The parties may, at any time, either before the jury
is sworn, or after, agree to take the verdict of the majority, which
agreement being stated to the Oonrt and stated on the record to
have been made, shall bind the parties, and in such case a verdict
signed by any seven or more and duly rendered, when read and
not disapproved by said majority, shall, in every particular, be e.s
binding as as if made by a full jury ; or 
When both parties require it a struck jury may be ordered;
whereupon eighteen jurors shall be called into the box, and the
plaintifff first and then the dei"endant, shall strike out one juror in 
t\lrD. until each has 8truek six, and the remaining six shall try· the 
cause. 
Sec. 444. When the jury has. been sworn, the trial shell pro­
ceed in the tollowing order : 
1. The party on whom rests the burden of proot, may briely
state his claim, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain 
it.
2. The other party may then, briefly state his deteaee, and the 
evidence he eapects to ()ffer in support of it. . 
3. The party on whom rests the burthen ot proof in the whole
action, must first produce his evidence ; the adverse ~y must
then produce his evidence. 
4:. The parties then will be confined to. rebutting evidence, un­
less the Court, for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permit
them to offer evidence in their origiual case. 
5. But one counsel on each side shall examine the same wit­
ness, and upon interlocutory questioas, the party moving the
Court or objecting to testimony, shall be heard first; the respond­
ent may then reply by one counsel, and the mover rejoin, con­
fining his remarks to the points firat stated, and a pertinent an­
swer to the respondent's argument. Deltate oa the ~uestion shall
then be closed, unless the Court request further argument. 
Sec. 445. When the evidence is concluded, either party may
· request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be 
given or refused by the Court. Instructions asked shall be stated
in writing by the party, if any one of the other party, or if the
Court require it. The party on ·whom is the burden of proof as 
aforesaid, shall first demand his instructions, then the other party, 
and the first party m~y then ask such alone, as go in reply.
Sec. 446. There shall be but two instructions at most, written 
on one sheet of paper, and the paper shall be written only on one
side thereof, and the writer shall lean a margin on the left hand 
side thereof of abeut two inches, and each instruction demanded
shall distinctly and intelligibly refer to the cause of aotion'to which 
it is intended to be applied, if there be several, or if one. ca.use of
action be divisible into diiferent parts, then to such part as it is in­
tended to be applied. 
Sec. 447. If the Oourt refuse a written inatrnction,~ demaad­
ed, but give the same with a modification which the Court may do 
-such modification shall not be by interlineadon or erasure, but 
shall be well defined and shall follow some snoh eharaeteriaing
words as " changed thus" which words shall themselves indicate 
that the same was refused as demanded.
Sec. 448. The Court may settle the instructions without, or may 
call for argument ; when settled they must all be read· over by the
Court to the jury, and announced as given or refused, by ·th~ 
Court ; and the words given or refused, as the case may be, writ­ 
ten on the margin, whereupon, if not before, such giving or re·
fusing shall be excepted to, or the ruling of the Court shall be 
deemed approved.
Sec. 449. If the giving or refusal be excepted to, the same 
may be without any stated reason therefore, and all instructions
demanded must be filed, and shall become part of the record. 
Sec. 450. Any decision or instruction of the Court in favor of
either party, may be abandoned by such party at any time before
the case is committed to the jury, unless testimony calculated to
influence the minds ot the jury has been afterwards admitted or 
rejected, or when the opposite party cannot be placed in the same
position which he would have occupied had such decision or. in­ 
struction not been given.
Sec. 451. The parties then may either submit or argue the 
case to the jury. In the argument the party having the burthen 
of the issue, shall have the opening and closing, but shall disclose 
in the opening all the points relied on in the cause ; and if in the
close, he should refer to any new material point or fact, not re­
lied upon in the opening, the adverse party shall have the right of
replying thereto, which reply shall close the argument in the 
case.
Sec. 452. It the party holding the affirmative waive the open­ 
ing, he shall· be limited in the close, simply, to a reply to his a~
verssry's argument, otherwise the other party shall have tae con­
cluding· argument. 
Sec. 453. After argument, the Court may of· its own motion,
charge tne jury, which charge shall be exclusively in writing, it 
such desire is by either ·party expressed to the Court before the
argument begin, and although not at such time demanded, either
party may require any part of any oral charge objected to, to be
put into a writing before being finally given to the jury. 
Sec. 454. The charge, if written, shall be expressed in para­
graphs, and numbered consecutively. 
Sec. 455. Every instruction and part or paragraph of the
charge shall be deemed approved, unless excepted to before the
same is finally submitted to the jury ; if so excepted to, that fact
and by whom excepted to, whether by plaintifff or defendant, shall 
be stated by the Court, on the margin, against such instruction or
part of the charge. 
Sec. 456. The Court shall not make any oral explanation of
any instruction or charge expressed in writing. 
Sec. 457. The parties may then submit or argue the case to
the jury. Every plaintifff or defendant shall be entitled to appear
by one attorney, and it there he but one plaintifff or defendant, he
may appear by two, and where there are several defendants hav­
ing the same or separate defenses, and appearing by the same or
different attorneys, the Court shall, before argument, arrange their
order. 
Sec. 458. The Court may restrict the time of any attorney in
any argument to itself, but shall not do so in any case before a 
jury.
Sec. 459. Whenever, in the opinion ef the Court, it is proper 
for the jury to have a view of the real property which is the sub­
ject of controversy, or ot the place in which any material fact oc­ 
curred, it may order them to be conducted in a body, under the
charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by
some person appointed by the Court for that purpose ; while the
jury are thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed 
shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 460. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they 
may decide in Court or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they shall be kept together in some convenient place, without
food and without drink, except water, under charge of an officer,
until they agree upon a verdict, or are discharged by the Court.
The officer having them under his charge shall not suffer any
communication to be made to them, or make any himself, except
to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by or­
der of the Court, and he shall not betore their verdict is rendered
communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the 
verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 461. If, after the empannelling of the jury and before 
verdict, a juror becomes sick so as to be unable to perform his
duty, he may be discharged. In such case, unless otherwise ar- 
ranged by the consent of the parties, the.vacancy thus made, must
be filled, and' the trial commence anew, or the Court may, in its 
discretion, order the jury to be discharged.
Sec. 462. Th~ jury may be discharged by the Court on ac­ 
count of any accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by
the consent of both parties, or when on an amendment a continu­
ance is ordered, or after they have been kept together until it sat­
isfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing. 
Sec. 463. In all cases where the jnry are discharged, during
the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried
again i:rnmediately, or at a future time, as the Court may then di­
rect. 
Sec. 464. The Court may also, at any time after having en­
tered npon the trial of any cause, where it may deem it right for
the purposes sf justice, order an adjournment for such time, within
the term and subject to such terms and conditions as to costs, and
otherwise, aa it may think just. 
Sec. 465. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take
with them all books of accounts, and all papers, which have been
received as evidence in the cause, except depositions, which shall
not be go taken, unless all the testimony is in writing, and none
of the same has been ordered to be struck out, 
Sec. 466. When the jury is absent, the Court may adjourn
from time to time; in respect to other business, but is to be deemed
open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the
jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. 
Sec. 467. At any time before the cause is finally submitted to
the Court or jury, either party may be permitted by the Court to
give further testimony to correct an evident oversight or mistake,
but terms may be imposed upon the party obtaining the privilege. 
Sec. 468. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if they
desire to be informed as to any point of law arising in the case,
they may request the officer to conduct them into Court, which
he sltall do, when the information required shall be given, in the
presence of, or after notice to the parties or their counsel. 
Sec. 469. Such information shall be in writing, if so demanded
by either party, and shall be held approved, unless it be excepted
to in the same way as the charge, and no discussion thereon shall
be allowed to either party. 
Sec. 470. The verdict must be written and signed by a fore- 
man chosen by the jury itself, and when agreed the jury must be
conducted into Court, their names called, and the verdict rendered 
by him, and read by the clerk to the jury and the inquiry made
whether it ia their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must
be sent out agaiin, but if no disagreement is expressed and neither
party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and
the jury discharged frem the case. · 
Sec. 471. When the verdict is announced, either party may
require the jury to be polled, which shall be done by the Court or
clerk, asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answer in
the negative, the jury must be sent out for further deliberation. 
Sec. 472. When by consent of the parties and the Court, the
jury have been permitted to seal their verdict and separate before 
it is rendered, such sealing is equivalent to a rendition and a re­
cording thereof in open Court, nor shall such jury be polled or
permitted to disagree thereto, unless such a course has been agreed 
upon between the parties in open Court and entered on the record.
Sec. 473. If, while the jury are kept together, either during 
progress of the trial or after their retiremel}t for deliberation, the
Court order them to be provided with suitable food and lodging,
they must be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the 
• county,
Sec. 474. The verdict ot a jury is either general or special. 
A general verdict is one in which they pronounce generally for 
the plaintifff or for the defendant upon all or upon any of the is­
sues. 
Sec. 475. A special verdict is one in which the jury finds facts
only, it must present the ultimate facts as established by the evi­
dence, and not the evidence to prove them so that nothing remains
to the Court but to draw from them its conclusions of law. 
Sec. 476. In all actions, the jury, in their discretion, may ren­
der a general or a special verdict, and in any case in which they
render a general verdict, they may be required by the Court, and
must be se required, on the request of any party to the action, to
find specially upon particular questions of fact to be stated to them
in writing, or to find that the fact stated in the petition, answer, or
reply, or in all or either of them, or in any count of either of them,
or in ease any count of either of them be divisible, then that any
defined part thereof, is true, or not true, and such special finding
is to be recorded with the verdict. 
Sec. 477. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with
the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the Oourt
may give judgment accordingly. 
Sec. 478. When by the verdict either party is entitled to re­
cover money of the adverse party, the jury in their verdict must
assess the amount of such recovery. 
Sec. 479. In actions for the recovery of specific personal prop·
erty, the jury must assess the value of the property, as also the
damages for taking or detention, whenever, by their verdict there
will be a judgment for the recovery or return of the property, and
when required so to do by either party, must find the value of
each article thereof. 
Sec. 480. In all suite comprising different causes of action, or
one cause of action, divisible into different parts, where a separate
thing, sum of money, or amount of damages is claimed for each
cause of action or each part thereof, and where any defeneevor
any opinion or instruction of' the Court may affect but one or more 
thing, cause of action, or part thereof, without affecting the rest,
the Oourt may, and on the request of either party, must direct the
jury to separate in their verdict, their finding upon each separate
defense or thing, or each separate cause of action, or each separate
part of the same cause of action, so as to make it possible for an~ 
appeal to be taken on one part of the case without disturbing any
other part. 
Sec. 481. When there are several defendants, the verdicts and
judgments-whether the pleadings are joint or several, shall be
moulded according to the facts, and to meet the exigencies of the
case. 
Sec. 482. The verdict shall be sufficient in form if it express
the intention of the jury. 
Sec. 483. The verdict shall, in all cases, be filed with the clerk, .
and entered upon the record, after having been put into form by
the Court, if necessary. 
Sec. 484. Upon a decision ot a demurrer if the unsuccessful
party fail to amend or plead over the same consequences shall
ensue as though a verdict had passed against the plaintifff, or the
defendant had made default, as the case may be. 
Sec. 485. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties,
to an issue of fact, in the following cases : 
1st. By suffering default or by failing to appear at the trial.
2d. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the 
clerk.
8d. By oral consent in open Court, entered in the minutes.
SEC. 486. Upon the trial of questions of fact, by the Court, in 
an action by ordinary proceedings, it shall not be necessary for
the Court to state its finding, except generally for the plaintifff or
defendant, unless one of the parties, before any testimony is offer­
ed, requests it, in which case its decision shall be given in writing,
stating the facts found, and the legal conclusions founded thereon,
separately, all of which shall be entered on tlte record. 
Sec. 487. All or any of the issues in an action, whether of fact
or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the consent of the par­ 
ties, either written or oral, in Court, entered upon the reeerd.
Sec. 488. When the parties do not consent, the Court may, 
upon the motion of either, or upon its own motion, direct a reference in either of the following cases : . 
1st. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examin­
ation of mutual accounts, or when the account being on one side
only, it shall be made to appear to the Court that it is necessary
that the party on the other side should be examined. ae a witness
to prove the account, in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and report upon the whole issue, or upon any specific
question of fact involved therein, or 
2d. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the Court, before judgment, or for carrying a judg­ 
ment or order into effect.
3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings 
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of an action-.
4th. When a question of fact shall arise in any action by equita­ 
ble proceedings.
Sec. 489. Where not otherwise declared in the order of refer­ 
ence. all the referees must meet to hear proofs, arguments, and to
deliberate, but a decision by a majority shall be regarded as their
decision. 
Sec. 490. When appointed by a Court, the judge thereof may
till vacancies in vacation. 
Sec. 491. The referees shall stand in the place of the Court, 
and shall have the same power, so far as necessary, to discharge
their duty. 
Sec. 492. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the Court. They have the same power to
summon and enforce, by attachment, the attendance of witnesses,
to punish them as for a contempt for non-attendance, or refusal to
be sworn, or to testify, and to administer all necessary oaths in the
trial of the case, to take testimony by commission, grant continu­
ances, to preserve order, and punish all violationa thereof. 
Sec. 493. The report of the referees on the whole issue, must
state the facts found, and the conclusions of law, separately, and 
shall stand as the finding of the Court, except as otherwise provid­
ed in equitate actions tried by the first method; and judgment may 
be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been
tried by the Court- the report may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner. 
Sec. 494. When the reference is to report the facts, the report
shall have the effect of a special verdict, except as is otherwise
provided in equitable actions tried by the first method. 
Sec. 495. The referees shall sign any true bill of exception
taken to any ruling by them made in the case whereto any party
demands a bill of exceptions; and the party shall have the same
rights to obtain such bill as exist in tho Court, and such bills shall
be returned with their report. 
Sec. 496. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when an
infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or per­ 
sons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered ac­
cordingly; and if the parties do not agree, the Court shall appoint
one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be persons 
free from exception, and having the qualification of jurors, or the
Court may allow each party to select one, and itself select a third. 
Sec. 497. A judge of the Court, when a case is pending, may,
in vacation, upon the written consent of the parties, make an order
of reference. In such case the order of reference shall be written
in the written agreement to refer, and shall be filed with the clerk
of the Court, with tho other papers in the case. 
Sec. 498. The referees must make an affidavit well and faith­
fully to hear and examine the case, and to make a just and true 
· report therein according to the best of their understanding. The 
oath may be administered by any person authorized to administer
an oath, and the affidavit shall be returned with tho report. 
Sec. 499. The refereea shall be allowed such compensation for
their services as the Court may deem just, which shall be taxed
as a part of the costs in the case. 
Sec. 500. The order shall not be made until the case ls at
issue, as to these parties, whose rights are to be examined on the
reference. The order may direct when the referee shall proceed
to a hearing, and when he shall make his report ; but in the ab­
sence of such direction, he shall do so on the morning of the tenth
day after the day on which was made the order of reference, and
shall file his report as soon as done ; of the time thus fixed, or de­
termined, the parties shall take notice, and non-attendance of eith­ 
er party within an hour of such time, shall be attended with like
consequences as if the case were in Court, which consequence
shall be reported, as any other fact or finding of the referees. 
Sec. 501. The referee must be called on by the Court to accept
or refuse the appointment, and his acceptance shall be entered of
record ; and he shall be under the control of tho Court, who may,
on the motion of either party, make all proper orders with a view
to his proceeding with all due dispatch, and the Court or Judge
may, on his motion, on good cause shown, enlarge the time of
making his report. 
Sec. 502. Any one of such referees may issue and sign sub­
peenas, and other process, administer oaths, necessary for the dis­ 
charge of their duties and the full exercise of all their powers.
Sec. 503. The formula of procedure which in the Court itself 
regulates service, pleading, proof, trial, and the preparation, pro­
gression, and method of each of these shall obtain before the re­
feree, and in every incident of the proceeding before him the rights
and responsibilities of parties, and of their attornies, and of the
reteree, shall be the same as if the referee was the Court, engaged
in the same matter. 
Sec. 504. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of
the Court, or party acting as the Court, on matter of law. The
party objecting to the decision, must object at the time the deci­
sion is made, and at once present his bill of exceptions; but un- 
less the Oourt or adverse party object, he may have time to do so,
not extending beyond the term. 
Sec. 505. No stated form of exception is required. So much
of the evidence as is neeessary to explain the ruling, should be
stated, and the ruling, and that it was excepted to when made,
unless that fact otherwise appear. If the exception is to the ad­
mission or exclusion of evidence, oral or written, the ground of
the objection must be also stated, and no other shall be regarded. 
Sec. 506. When the decision objected to is entered on the re­
cord, and the grounds of the exception appear in the entry, or
when any error appears of record, the exception may be taken by
the party causing to be noted at the end of the decision, or in con­
nection therewith, that he excepts. 
Sec. 507. Where an instruction is marked, excepted to, such
terms shall sufficiently indicate that it was excepted to at the pro­
per time, and an exception when presented for signature, need
not include therein, spread out at length, any writing filed in
Court, but may incorporate the same, by any unmistakable refer­
ence thereto, and the clerk in making a transcript of the bill of
exception shall write therein at length, all of such writing includ­ 
ed therein by reference.
Sec. 508. When the decision is not entered on the record, or 
when the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the 
record, the party excepting must reduce his exception to writing, 
and present it to the Oourt for its signature. If the judge deems
it true he shall sign It. If he does not deem it true, he shall at 
once state to the party offering it, what cerreetion he desires to
make thereto, if the party accept the same, or if he and the judge 
elm agree upon any correction, the judge shall, having made the
same, sign snch exception, and it shall be filed and become part of 
the record. But it the judge and the party cannot agree on such
exception, the party shall announce the same to the judge, who
shall thereupon deliver the exception back to the party. The
party may then proceed to procure the signatures of two or more
by-standers to the exception, and the Court shall allow him area­
sonable time therefore, and shall in no manner interfere with his
endeavor to do so. If the party procure the signature of two by­ 
standers, attesting that the exception is true, and that the Court
has refused to sign the same, the exception shall be filed by the
clerk and shall become part of the record. The truth of such ex- 
ception may be controverted and maintained by affidavits not ex­
ceeding five in number, and all affidavits impugning the exception
shall be filed with the clerk on the morning of the first day after
that on which the exception was filed, and those sustaining it on
the next morning thereafter. Such affidavits shall also become
part of the record, and the Supreme Oourt shall, on becoming
satisfied that any exception is true, consider the same. 
Sec. 509. No exception shall be regarded in the Supreme
Court, unless the ruling has been on a material point, and the
effect thereof prejudicial to the substantive rights of the party ex­ 
cepting. 
Sec. 510. A new trial is a re-examination in the same Court of 
an fssue of fact, after a verdict by a [ury, report of a referee, or a
decision by the Cou t. The former report, verdict or decision,
shall be vacated, and a new trial granted, on the applies .ion of the
party aggrieve , for any ot the following~uees affecting material­
ly the substantial rights of such party : 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Oourt, jury, referee, or
prevailing party, or any order ot Oourt or referee, or abuse of dis­ 
cretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of the jury o'r prevailing party. 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded againet. 
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or of prejudice. 
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether
too large or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for
the injury or detention of property. 
6. That the verdict, report or decision, is not su&ta.ined by suffi­
cient evidence, or is contrary to law. 
6. Newly discovered evidence material for the party applying,
which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and
produced at the trial. 
8. Error of law occurring at the trial, excepted to by the party
making the application. 
Sec. 511. A new trial shall not be granted on seeennt of the
smallness of damages in an action for an injury to the person or 
reputation, nor in any other action where the damages shall equal
the actual pecuniary injury sustained. 
Sec. 512. The application for a new trial must be made at the
term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and except for the
cause of newly discovered evidence material for the party apply­
ing, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial, shall be within _three days after the ver­ 
dict or decision was rendered.
Sec. 513. The application must be made by motion upon writ­ 
ten grounds filed at the time of making the motion, the causes
enumerated iu sub-divisions two, three and seven, of section 510,
must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth, and may be 
controverted by affidavits.
Sec. 514. Where the grounds for a new trial could not, w.th 
reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, bot are discov­
ered after the term at which the verdict, repor~f referee or deci­
sion was rendered or made, the application may be made by petition
filed as in other cases, not later than the second term after the
discovery ; on which notice shall be served and returned as an
original notice, and the defendant held to appear as in an original
action. The facts stated in the petition shall be considered as de­
nied, without answer. The ·case shall be tried as other cases, by
ordinary proceedings, but no petition shall be filed more than sne
year after the final judgment was rendered. 
Sec. 515. The costs of all new trials shall either abide the event
of' the snit, or be paid by the party to whom such new trial is
granted, according to the order of the Court to be made at the 
time of granting such new trial.
Sec. 516. The Court may determine not to grant a new trial, 
unless certain terms or conditions named by the Court shall be
agreed to by the opposite party; in the event of his agreement to
which, the terms or conditions named shall be entered on the
record, and no new trial shall be granted it the party refuse to agree
to the terms or conditions upon which a new trial shall be awarded. 
Sec. 517. In case a new trial is granted, judgment shall never­
theless be entered upon the first verdict, if the party claiming it so
demand, and shall stand until the second verdict is rendered, and 
judgment rendered thereon, when the first verdict and judgment
shall be set aside, but no execution shall issue on such judgment
afler an entry allowing a new trial. 
Sec. 518. Upon any motion made tor a new trial, or for judg­
ment, notwithstanding the verdict, by reason of the non-averment
of some material fact, the party whose pleading is thus alleged de­
fective, may, if the Court deem it necessary, :file a statement of the
omitted tact, which if true, would remedy the alleged defects, and
such statement shall be filed before the hearing of the motion, and
shall suspend the same. It the facts thus stated would not, if 
proved, defeat the object of the motion, it shall be granted. If
such new averments would, if proved, defeat the object of the mo­
tion, be not admitted, they must be denied or confessed, and avoid­
ed by the opposite party, within such time as the Court shall direct,
unless the same are denied by legal operation, and in such case
the law of pleading and of procedure applicable to actions and
pleadings of that kind shall obtain ; except that the party stating
the new fact shall be held the plaintifff therein, and the statement
and response shall not need to be verified. 
Sec. 519. If the facts thus stated be admitted, or · found to be
true, the party stating the same shall be entitled to such judgment 
as he would have been entitled to it such facts had been stated in
the original pleading, and admitted as proved in the trial, together
with the costs of, and occasioned by the new pleading and the pro­
ceedings therein ; but if the fact be found untrue, the opposite party
shall be entitled to his costs of, and occasioned by the new pleading
and the proceedings thereon, in addition to any other costs to which 
he may be entitled. 
Sec. 520. Every final adjudication of the rights of the parties
in an action, is a judgment; and such adjudication may contists of
many judgments, one of which judgments may determine for the 
plaintifff or defendant on the claim of either as an entirety, or when 
.a claim consists of several parts or items, such judgment may be
for either of them, on any specific proof or item of such aggregate 
claim, and against him on the other part thereof, or a judgment
may in either of these ways determine on the claims of co-parties
on the same side against each other. 
Sec. 521. To avoid a re-examination of questions and issues
which have been once satisfactorily settled, and a re-opening of
such parts of a cause as have been satisfactorily tried, any party 
who succeeds in part of his cause, or in part of his caases, and fails as
to part, may have the entry in such case express judgment forhim
for such part as he succeeds upon, and against him on the other
part. 
Sec. 522. Judgment may be rendered for or against one or
more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants, whether snch plaintifffs or defendants be jointly or sev­ 
ally liable, and the Oourt may determine the ultimate rights of the
parties, on the same side as between themselves, and may grant to
any party any affirmative relief which he may be entitled to, and
render judgment accordingly, and may render sneh and so many 
judgments, joint, separate and cross, as may be necessary to express
the rights of the parties. ' 
Sec. 523. Where matter in abatement, is plead in connection
with other matter not such, the finding of the jury or Court must
distinguish between matter in abatement and matter in bar, and
the judgment must, it it is rendered on the matter in abatement,
and not on the merits, so declare. 
Sec. 524. Where any other than a general execution of the
common form is required, the party must state in his pleading the
faets entitling him thereto, and the judgment may be entered in
accordance with the finding of the Court or jury thereon. 
Sec. 626. In an action against several defendants, the Court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, 
whenever a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to pro­
ceed against the others. 
Sec. 526. An action ma.y be dismissed, and such dismissal shall
be without prejudice to a future action : 
1st-By the plaintifff' before the final submission of the case to
the jnry or to the Court, when the trial is by the Cottrt. 
2d-By the Court, when the plaintifff fails to appear when the 
case is called for trial.
3d-By the Oourt, for want of neooasary parties, when not made 
according to the requirement of the Oourt,
,th-By the Court, on the application of some of the defendants, 
when there are others whom the plaintifff tails to prosecute with
diligence. 
5th-By the Court, for disobedience by the party of an order 
eoneeming the pleadings or any proceeding in the action. 
Sec. 527. In all other cases upon the trial of the action, the
decision must be upon the merits. 
Sec. 528. In any case when a set-oft~ counterclaim or cross­
demand has been filed, the defendant shall have the right of pro­
ceeding te the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff may have
dismissed his action, or tailed to appear. 
Sec. 529. The defendant may also, at any time before the :final 
submission of the cause to the jury or to the Court, when the trial
is by the Court, dismiss his set-off, counterclaim or cross demand,
without prejudice. 
Sec. 580. Any party to any claim may dismisa the same in
vacation, and the Olerk shall make the proper entry of' dismissal
on the record, and if the costs are not paid, may enter judgment
against such party therefore, in favor of the party entitled thereto,
and issue execution therefore at the order ot such party ; the party
so dismissing shall be liable for no costs made by the other party 
atter notice to him of such dismissal.
Sec. 581. Though all the defendants have been served with 
notice, judgment may be rendered against any of them severally,
where the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments against such
defendants, if the action had been against such alone. 
Sec. 532. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be no
answer, cannot exceed that which ~he shall have demanded in his
petition. But in any other case the Court may grant him any re­
lief conaistent with the case made by the petition and embraced
within the issue. 
SEC. 583. Whenever damages are recoverable, the party may
claim and recover if he shows himself entitled thereto, any amount
of damages which he might have hitherto recovered for the same
stated cause of action. 
Sec. 534. If only part of the claim is controverted by the
pleading, judgment may, at any time, be rendered for the part not
controverted. 
Sec. 635. When a trial by jury has been hsd, judgment must
be entered by the Clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless it
is special or the Court orders the case to be reserved for future
argument or consideration. 
Sec. 536. When the verdict is special, or when there has been
a special finding on particular questions of fact, or issues, or when 
the Oourt has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what
judgment shall be entered. 
Sec. 537. When by the statements or the pleadings, one party
is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so
rendered by the Oourt, though a verdict has been found against
such party, unless the other party proceed as provided in sec·
tion 518. 
Sec. 588. If a set-off, counterclaim or cress-demand estab­
lished at the time, exceed the plaintifff's claim so established, judg­
ment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it ap·
pears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, 
judgment must then be given therefore.
Sec. 539. All judgments and orders must be entered on the 
record of the Oeurt and specify clearly the relief granted, or order
made in the action. 
Sec. 540. Where a judgment is set aside or satisfied by the ex­
ecution or otherwise, the Clerk shall at once enter a memoran ·
dnm thereof on the column left for that purpose in the judgment
docket. 
Sec. 541. In cases where the title to land is involved and ex­
pressly settled or determined, the Olerk shall make a complete
record of the whole cause, and enter it in the proper book. But
in no other case need a complete entry be made except at the re­
quest of a party who will pay the expense of such record. 
Sec. 542. Any judgment which may be agreed upon between
tho parties interested therein, may e.t any time be enter ed, and if 
not done in open Oeurt, the judgment agreed to shall be in wri­
ting, signed, and filed with the Olerk, who shall thereupon enter
the same accordingly, and execution thereon may issue forthwith,
unless therein otherwise agreed upon between the parties. 
Sec. 543. In all actions where the plaintifff recovers a sum of
money, the amount to which he is entitled may be awarded him
by the judgment generally without any distinction being therein
made as to whether sueh sum is recovered by way of a debt or 
damages.
Sec. 544. The provisions of this chapter relative to juries are 
intended to be applied to the Court when acting as a jury on the
trial of a cause so far as they are applicable and not incompatible
with other provisions herein contained. 
Sec. 545. A defendant against whom a judgment has been 
rendered, or any person interested therein having some good mat­
ter of discharge which has arisen since the judgment, may, upon 
motion, in a summary way, have the same discharged either in
whole or in part, according to the circumstances. 
Sec. 546. The Court shall have power, on motion, to inquire
into the facts attending or connected with the assignment of a 
judgment, or the entry of the same to the use of any party, and
to strike out such use, or to declare such assignment void, either
in whole or in part, whenever such assignment or use shall be de­
termined to be inequitable or fraudulent, or in bad faith. 
Soc. 547. If a party fail to. file or amend his pleading by the
time prescribed by the rules of pleading, or in the absence of
rules by the time fixed by the Court-or if having plead, his an­
swer, or reply, on motion or demurrer is held insufficient or is
struck out, and he fail to amend or to answer or reply further as
required by the rules of, or by the Court, or if he withdraw his
pleading without authority, or permission to replead, judgment by
default may be rendered against him on demand of the adverse
party, made before such pleading is filed. 
Sec. 548. When service has been made by publication, and no
appearance made, default shall not be had until the Court deter­
mines, from an inspection of the record, that notice has been given
as required by this Code. 
Sec. 549. Default may be set aside on such terms as the Court
may deem j nst, among which must be that of pleading issuably
and instanter, bnt not unless an affidavit of merits be filed, and a
reasonable excuse be shown for having made such default, nor un­
less application therefore be made at the term in which default was
entered, or if entered in vacation, then on the first day of the suc­ 
ceeding term.
Sec. 550. When the action is for a money demand, and the 
amount of' the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation,
the Clerk shall ascertain the amount. 
When 1ong accounts are to be examined, the Court may refer
the matter. In other cases the Court shall assess the damages,
unless a jury be demanded by the party not in default. 
The proper amount having been ascertained by either of the
above methods, judgment shall be rendered therefore. 
Sec. 551. The party in default may appear at the time of the 
assessment and cross-examine the witness against him but for no
other purpose. 
Sec. 552. When the proceedings are ot an equitable character,
the Court upon reading the pleadings and proofs, and hearing the
testimony offered, shall render such judgment as is consistent with
the rules heretofore observed in Chancery cases. 
Sec. 553. A defendant served by publication alone, shall be
allewed at any time before judgment, to appear and defend the
action, and npo• a substantial defense being declared, time may
be given, on reasonable terms, to prepare for trial. 
Sec. 554. When the plaintifff files with the petition, his own
affidavit, stating that any of' the allegations of the petition recited
in said affidavit are true, and known to be so by the defendant, and
that they cannot be proved or shown otherwise than by his testi­
mony or his answer, so far as affiant knows or believes ; such alle­
gations, unless denied by an. answer shall be taken as true. 
Sec. 555. Before a judgment is rendered against a defendant
served by publication alone, and who has not appeared, it shall be 
necessary that a bond be executed to such defendant by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff! to the effect that if the de­
fondant within the period prescribed by law, shall appear, make
defense and set aside the judgment, the plaintifff shall restore to
him the property taken under any attachment in the action, or un­
der the judgment thereon, the restoration of which may be ad­ 
judged, and pay to the defendant such sums of money as the Court
may award to him. 
Sec. 556. If such bond i s not given, the Court may enter a
judgment ascertaining the rights of the parties, but shall retain 
control over and preserve auy money or property, or the proceeds
thereof which may have been attached in the action until the ex­
piration of the period allowed to the defendant in which to appear
and make defense ; when if no defense is made, such money or
property, or its proceeds shall be delivered according to the judg- 
ment. ·
Sec. 557. Before rendering judgment against a detendant 
served by publication alone, and who has not appeared, the Court
shall cause the plaintifff to appear personally in court or before a
referee, and answer under oath interrogatories concerning the mat­
ters in the petition, or any matters of defense thereto, including
matters of set-off or counterclaim, and may order the examination 
tobe r~~~- to wdting1, and, filed: wJt~i t.h~ ;ptf,p~r~Jot $Er. a~~n. 
Sec. 558. If upon the examination proy;ided,jn. ,µ,.~ 1.A~t.~9~
tion, anyi~~ttets-:"pt.;,~et·O:if:Qr; QQµ~\e.r:~W,m. Are,;djwl~sA(l, tJie
same may be adjusted and allowed iQ.·Jh~_.iudg~~~t~: ,,,,c: '·ti,,,; . 
SEC. 559. When a judgment has been rendered against a defendant or defendants, served by publication only, and who do not appear, such defendants, ro any one or more of them, or any person legally representing him or them, may at any time within
five years after the rendition .. 01'.~ i_«d,g~e~g, ,:~ppeq;r.;:in (}plJift, 
aiud r~qve; tQ have_ tha act;ipn 1 :re-triad jj:and· aeoU.rit.$ to.ti · ithe- .eests
being :gtven; ._ t~1. shall, be r adIJ11:ti~ :t~ : : m.ak~, . defense ;. and pbere,. 
upon the action shall be- revived as to such defendants.. :1.\8 _ if 
there hadbeen no jndgmeB~, .snd -. JJ.pon,tlie-n~w_ trial, ,the .O~rt 
.ma,.- icpnfbm: the former jtldgm@~: Ql!; may-Ulpdiiy. ~lhf3~' it:_4ai~,
and may order the plaintifff to restore ~pY.:~Jl.eyf Qf s:u.eh.:defend· 
int pai~ to aiuu. , :11-qd.ei-; .u,. i Qr 1 ::i_i.O y; ptope?ty_ · ,Qf. ,ihe' ._ defeadant. ob­ 
talned ,by1 .tl:i..e· :Pl~~i'.ff. unqe.-r: it,-. ~ alldi 1ye.t· re~iniug in ~bis: PPS"£!·
slion; e.n<Lpay W!::;tQ~hd~tendantJhe. t~e :~J-~y ;SllOlJ. pTope~~, 
which may have been taken in attachment in the action, or under 
t.h~ jµd1tn~nt,.,.ADcl.·,i;t~t.re~c>l'ed. · ··, :, 1 1; r..' · ::r l • t. < , · · r 
SEC. 560. Th eplaintifff may, at any time, after the judgment, 
cause ~:('ertifi~µ.,,QOpJ thereof. t<)i 'b~-~e.rv:ed-;o.ni,&, defendant-,:eerv.~d
by publication only, whe,~1Ji~ij ,t~, ~~ ,j~, whiq)jt #Mh, defend­ 
antd~;aHow,ed to •ppea,r ~nd,h~re :a :_nt)w. t-rjftl,~sha.I.t be.reduced to
one;Y,f3ar a.tt~r JU@:B~tv;lca~, ., ,'. .,:"r.r:,;f, ; r i , :· ,, 
Sec. 561. The service, r~( th~ .. QQPYi of t~e: judg~Ilt~~hall .b~, 
whether made within or without th'e State, actual and personal, by
delivery of copy, and made and -returned, as in case of original
notice. 
Sec. 562. The titlJ of!afurch~~er'in' good faith to any prop­
erty sold under an ~tt;ac~p:ient, o~ judgment, .sha~l not be affected 
by the new trial permitted bf section ·559, except the title ofprop­
~r.ty :ob~:µn~~L\ly t~~ ,p~~i~til;f and q. ot: ,b~~\1ihtt': ),ljpi iq iwo.d faith 
by o~~~rtt·1d'.i:L'.:; f_i·, ,;~ \1 '.• · , -.~.·. :,: ;·,!.\.1: \·/:_ 1,:1f'._, ,,;!· ;., ;,:; : 
SEC. 553. No personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant served by publication only, who has not made an appearance. But a personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant whether he appear or not who has been served in any mode in this Code provided, other than by publication, whether served within or without this State.
Sec. 564. Real property may be conveyed by a commissioner
appointed by the Court- 
1. Where, by judgment in an action, a party is ordered to con­ 
vey such property to another.
2. Where such property has been sold, under a judgment or 
order of the Court and the purchase money paid.
Sec. 565. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the 
judgment, orders and proceedings authorizing the conveyance as
that Ul0 same may be readily found. 
Sec. 566. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment,
shall pass to the grantee tho title of the parties ordered to convey
the land. 
Sec. 567. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered
by the Court, shah pass to the grantee the title of all the parties
to the action or proceeding. 
Sec. 568. A conveyance by a commissioner, shall not pass any
right, until it has been examined and approved by the Court, which
approval shall be endorsed on-the conveyance and recorded with 
it. '
Sec. 169. It shalJ be necessary for the conveyance to be signed 
by the commissioner only, without affixing the names of the par­
ties whose title is conveyed; but the names of such parties shall
be recited in the body of the conveyance. 
Sec. 570. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in
which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been made by
the parties whose title is conveyed by it. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
ATT AOHMENT AND GARITISHl(ENT. 
Sec. 571. The plaintifff in a civil action may cause any prop·
erty of the defendant which is not exempt from execution, to be
attached at the commeacement or during the progress of the pro­
ceeding, by pursuing the course hereinafter prescribed. 
Sec. 572. If it be subsequent to the commencement of the ac­
tion, a separate petition must be filed, and in all cases the pro­
ceedings relative to the attachment are to be deemed independent
of the ordinary proceedings and only auxiliary thereto. 
Sec. 578. The petition which asks an attachment must, in all
cases, be sworn to. It must state 1st-That the defendant is a
foreign corporation, or acting as such, or 2d-That he is a non­
resident of the State, or 3d-That he is in some manner about to
dispose of or remove his property out of the State, without leav­
ing sufficient remaining for the payment of his debts, or 4th-That
he has disposed of his property (in whole or in part) with intent
to defraud his creditors, or 5th-That he has absconded, so that
the ordinary pre>cess cannot be served upon him, or 6th-That he
is about to remove permanently out of the county, and bas prop­
erty therein not exempt from execution, with which he refuses to
pay or to secure the debt due to the plaintifff residing in such
county, or 7th-That he is about to remove permanently out of the 
State and refuses to pay or secure the debt of the plaintifff.
Sec. 574. If the plaintifff's demand is founded on contract, the 
petition must state that something is due, and as near as practica­
ble, the amount, which mnst be more then five dollars in order to
authorize an attachment. 
Sec. 575. The amount thus sworn to is intended as a guide to
the sheriff, who must, as nearly as the circumstances of the case
will permit, levy upon property fifty per cent greater in value than
that amount. 
Sec. 576. If the demand is not founded on contract, the origi­
nal petition must be presented to some judge of the Supreme or
District Court, or the judge of the County Court, who shall make 
an allowance thereon of the amount in value of the property that
may be attached. The provisions of this section apply only to 
cases in the District Court.
Sec. 577. The property of a debtor may be attached previous 
to the time when the debt becomes due, when nothing but time is
wanting to fix an absolute indebtedness and when the petitio• in 
addition to that fact states, let-That the defendant is about to
dispose of his property with intent to defraud his creditors, or 2d­
That he is about to remove from the State, and retnses to make
any arrangements for securing the payment of the debt when it
falls due, and which contemplated removal was not known to the
plaintifff' at the time the debt was contracted. 
Sec. 578. It the debt or demand on which the attachment snit
is brought, is not due, at the time of the service of the attachment,
the defendant is not required to file any pleadinp until the matu- · 
rity of such debt or demand; but he may, in his discretion, do so,
and go to trial as early as the cause is reached. 
Sec. 579. And no final judgment shall be rendered upon such
attachment, unless the party consents, as in the last . section, until
the debt or demaad upon which it is based, becomes due. But
property of a perishable nature, may be sold as in other attach­ 
ment cases.
Sec. 580. Before any attachment can be issued as aforesaid, 
the plaintifff must file with the clerk, a bond, for the use of the de­
fendant, with sureties to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at
least double the value of the property sought to be attached, and
in no case less than two hundred and fifty dollars, in the District
Oonrt, nor less than fifty dollars, if in a Justices' Court, con ditioned that the plaintifff will pay all damages, which the defend­
ant may sustain, by reason of the wrongful suing out of the at­ 
tachment. ·
Sec. 581. The defendant may, at any time, before judgment, 
move the Court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff,
and if, on such motion, the Court is satisfied that the surety in
the plaintifff's bond has removed from this State, or is not suffi­
cient, it may vacate the writ of attachment, and direct restitution
of any property taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to be
fixed by the Court, and within two clear days thereafter, sufficient
security is given by the plaintifff. , 
Sec. 582. In an action in such bond the plaintifff therein may
recover, if he shows that the attachment was wrongfully sued.out, 
&lll~: damag~s as he has thereby suffered, and if sued out mali­
ciously as well as wrongfully, the jury may, on such trial, give
.vindietiired4Jnages,,in·their. diaeretion, nor need he wait until the
pri.Mipal, ,lluit &s: determined before he, bring .suit on the bond .
SEC. 583.  Where suits are properly commenced ia the .District
.Oourt .. ot any.C:OU.nty,: tha:augiliary pto.cess of ,attachment may;rnn
at th~. B!Pl).e: time iato av.y: other .eounty. where property of the, de­
fendant: can be found, and. several of them may, at the: opticn.of
the plaintifff, be, issued .at, the. same time or in. suceession and sub­
setu.ently, but only those .. executed shall be taaed in 'the costs, a.rul 
if more property is attaeh~din;theaggregate than the ,plaintifff:~ 
-entitledcto.hoW inthat manMr;,he must abandon the surplus .and 
pay all~ost.s inenrred.inrelation.to it •. · ... :'
SEC. 584. The lcerk shall issue a writ of attachment directing the sheriff of the county therein named to attach property of the defendant to the requisite amount therein state.
the sheriff ot the county therein named to attach property of the
defendant to the requisite amount therein stated. 
Sec. 585. The sheriff shall, in all cases, attach the amount of
property directed, if sufficient, not exempt from execution, be
found in his county, giving that in. which one defendant has a le·
gal and unquestionable title, a preference over that in which his title is doubtful or only equitable. 
Sec. 586. Where there are several writs of attachment against
the same defendant, they shall be executed in the order, in which 
they were received by the sheriff.
Sec. 587. If, after a writ ot attachment has been placed in the 
hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed
from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in an
adjoining county, within twenty-four hours after the removal. 
Sec. 588. Whenever it appears by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
or by the return ot the writ of attachment that no property is
known to the plaintifff, or the officer, on which the order of attach­
ment can be executed, or not enough to satisfy the plaintifff's claim,
and it also appears to the Court, by affidavit, that the defendant
has property within the State, not exempt from the writ, the de·
fendant may be required by the Court to attend before it, and give
information on oath, respecting his property. 
SEC. 589. The sheriff shall not, on attachment against a mem­
ber of a firm, take possession of partnership property, and in exe­
cuting a writ of attachment upon personal property held by the
defendant jointly or in common with another person, he shall not
take possession of such property until there has been executed a
bond to such other person, by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff, to the effect, that he shall pay to such person the
damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing out of the attach·
ment, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, or
double the value of the property, if the latter be the larger sum;
but such owner or such firm may be garnished, and such property
thereby reached. 
Sec. 590. If the defendant at any time before judgment. causes
a bond to be executed to the plaintifff, by one or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Court, or by the judge, to the effect
that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the Court, the
attachment shall he discharged and restitution made of any pro·
perty taken under it, or the proceeds thereof. 
Sec. 591. The bond mentioned in the last section, may, in va­
cation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff, having the writ
of attachment in his hands; or after the return ot the writ before 
the clerk, with the same effect upon the attachment, as if executed 
in Oourt, The sureties in either case to be approved by the officer, before whom taken. · 
Sec. 592. Such bond shall be part of the record, and if judg­
ment go against the plaintifff the same shall be entered against
him and the sureties of said bond. 
Sec. 593. Stock or interest owned by the defendant in any
company, and also debts due him, or property of his held by third
persons, may be attached, and the mode of attachment must be as
follows: 1st. By giving the defendant in the action, if tound
within the county, and also the person occupying, or in possession
of the property, if it be in the hands of a third person, notice ot
such attachment. 2d. If the property is capable ot manual deliv­
ery, the sheriff must take it into his custody, if it can be found.
3d. Stock in .a company is attached by notifying the president or
other :head of the company, or the secretary, cashier, or other 
managing agent thereof, ot the fact that the stock has been so
attached. 4th. Debts due the defendant, or property of his held
by third persons, and which cannot be found, or the title to which
is doabtful, are attached by garnishment thereof. 
Sec. 594. The attachment by garnishment is effected by in­
furmiag the supposed debtor or person holding the property, that
he is attached as garnishee, and by leaving with him a written
notice to the effect that he is required not to pay any debt due by
him to the defendant, or thereafter to become due, and that he
must retain possession of all property of the said defendant then or
thereafter being in his custody, or under his control, in order that
the same may be dealt with according to law, and the sheriff shall
summon such persons as garnishees, as the plaintifff may direct. 
Sec. 595. A sheriff' or constable may be garnished for money
of the defendant in his hands. So may a judgment-debtor of the
defendant, when the judgment has not been previously assigned;
and also an executor for money due from the decedent to the de­
fendant. 
Sec. 596. Where the property to be attached is a fund in
Oourt, the execution of the writ of attachment shall Le by leaving 
with the clerk of the Court, a copy thereof, with a notice specify­
ing the fund. 
Sec. 597. If the garnishee die after he has been summoned by
garnishment, and pending the litigation, the proceedings may be , 
revived by or against hie heirs or legal representatives.
Sec. 598. Unless exempted, as provided in the next section, 
the notice must also require the garnishee to appear on the first
day of the next term of the District Court, wherein the main cause
is depending, or on the day fixed for trial; if in a justice's court,
and answer such interrogatories as may be then propounded to
him, or that he will be liable to pay the entire judgment which the
plaintifff eventually obtains against the defendant. 
Sec. 599. The plaintifff may in writing direct the sheriff to take
the answer of the garnishee, and append the same to his return. 
Sec. 600. In such case, the sheriff has power to administer an
oath to garnishees, requiring them to make true answers to the
questions to be propounded, which questions shall be as follows:
lat. Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant in this
suit, or do you owe him money or property, which is not yet due I 
If so state the particulars. 2d. Have you in your possession or
under your control, any property, rights, or credits of the said de·
fondant i If so, what is the value of the same, and state all par­
ticulars. 3d. Do you know of any debts owing to the said def end­
ant, whether due or not due, or any property, rights, or credits
belonging to him; and now in the possession or under the control 
of others I It so state the particulars.
Sec. 601. If the garnishee refuse to answer fully and unequivo­ 
cally all the foregoing interrogatories, he shall be notified and re­
quired to appear and answer on the first day of the next term of
the District Court, or on the day fixed for trial, as above provided,
and so he may be required in any event, if' the plaintifff so notify 
him.
Sec. 602. The questions propounded to the garnishee in Court, 
may be such as are above prescribed, to be asked by the sheriff',
and such others as the Court may think proper and right. 
Sec. 603. Where the garnishee is required to appear at Court,
unless he has refused to answer, as contemplated above, he is en­
titled to the _pay and milage of an ordinary witness, and may in
like manner, require payment before hand, in order to be made
liable for non-attendance. 
SEC. 604. If, wehn duly summoned, and his fees tendered, when demanded he fail to appear and answer the interrogatories propounded to him without sufficient excuse for his delinquency, he shall be presumed to be indebted to teh defendant to the full amount of the plaintifff's demand, and shall be dealt with accordingly.
SEC. 605. But for mere failure to appear, he is not liable to pay the amoutn of the plaitniff's judgment, until he has had an opportunity to show cause against the issuing of an execution.
SEC. 606. A garnishee may at any time, after answer, exonerate himself from further responsibility by paying over to the sheriff the amount owing by him to the defendant, and by placing at the sheriff's disposal the property of the defendant, or so much of said debts and property as is equal to the value of the property to be attached, all of which may afterwards be treated as though attached int eh usual manner.

SEC. 607. Wheh the 'answer of: the ga.'rttishee is made, whether
at(fhE{Dtstriet Ohuttior·oeforethe:ju~tiee;ot before the sheriff, the
plaintifff'. may controvert. b)" ;pleading · filed,- any facts contained in
the answer; and· speciiically set outby ,the; plaintifff, and issue be­
ing th~reupon')tiih~d; mayi~'e; tried1·iathe usual manner. Upon
such trial' the at1~wer of'the garnis~e iB competent testimony . 
SEC. 608 It in any ·of th~ abov~ methods, it is made to appear
that-the garnishee' was indebted-to the defendant, or had any of
the d~fonclant'a propett!y fo: his handi3, either at the time of being 
served with the garnishee notiriEd1.roresaid, or at any time subse­ 
quentthereto,' he is liable 'to theplsintiff in case judgment is final­
lf~oov~r&i.hy hini'to thefull atirount of that judgment, or to the
amount of such' inaeb.t~dnes~, and :of 'the property so held by him, 
a-n~hi c6editiohal,judgme'dt ;shall ·' be entered up against him ae­
cerdingly, unli3es: he "preters payi11g or delivering the same to the
sheriff as above provided. 
SEC. 609. If the debt of the garnishee to the defendant is not due, execution will be suspended until its maturity.
Sec. 610. Th Er: garnishe~ shall not be made liable on a debt 
due by negotiable ·o~ assignable paper, unless such paper is deliver­
ed, or the· 'garnishee' completely exonerated or indemnified from
all liability thereoa, · aft~r he' ttuty have satisfied the judgment. 
Sec. 611. The judgment m the garnishment suit, condemning
the property or debt in the hands of the garnishee, to the satistac- 
tion of the plaintifff's demand, is conclusive between the garnishee
and defendant. 
Sec. 612. The docketing of the original case shall contain a
statement of all the garnishments therein, and when judgment is
rendered against a garnishee, the same shall distinctly refer to the
original judgment. 
Sec. 613. An appeal lies, in all garnishment cases, to the in­
stance of the plaintifff, the defendant, the garnishee, or an interven­ 
or claiming the property or money.
Sec. 614. Property attached otherwise than by garnishment is 
bound thereby: from the time of the service of the attachment
only. 
Sec. 615. The Court before whom the action is pending, or
the J ndge thereof, in vacation may, at any time appoint a receiver
to take possession of property attached under the provisions of
this chapter, and to collect, manage and control the same, and pay
over the proceeds according to the nature of the property and ex­ 
igency of the case.
Sec. 616. All money attached by the Sheriff, or coming into 
his hands by virtae of the proceeding in attachment, shall forth­
with be paid over to the Clerk to be by him retained till the fur­
ther action of the Court. 
Sec. 617. The Sheriff shall make such disposition of other at­
tached property as may be directed by the Oourt or Judge, and
where there is no direction upon the subject,! he shall safely keep
the property, subject to the order of the Court. 
Sec. 618. The defendant, or any person in whose possession
any attached property is found, or any person making affidavit that
he has an interest in it, may, at any time before judgement, dis­
charge the property attached, or any part thereof, by giving bond
with security, to be approved by the Sheriff, in a penalty at least 
double the value of the property sought to be released, but if that
sum would exceed three times the claim, then in such sum as equals
three times the claim, conditioned that such property, or its esti­
mated value, shall be delivered to the Sheriff to satisfy any judg­
ment which may be obtained against the defendant in that suit,
within twenty days after the rendition thereof. This bond shall be
filed with the Olerk of the Court. 
Sec. 619. To determine the value of the property in cases where
a bond is to be given, unless the parties agree otherwise, the Sher- 
iff shall summon two disinterested persons having the qualification
of jurors, who, after being sworn by him to make the appraisement 
faithfully and impartially, shall proceed to the discharge of their
duty. If such persons disagree as to the value of the property, 
the Sheriff shall decide between them.
Sec. 620. In an action brought upon the bond above contem­ 
plated, it shall be a sufficient defense that the property for the de­
livery of which the bond was given, did not, at the time of the
levy, belong to the defendant against whom the attachment was 
issued.
Sec. 621. When the Sheriff thinks the property attached in 
danger of serious and immediate waste and decay, he may summon
three persons· having the qualifications of jurors, to examine the
same. The Sheriff shall give the defendant, if within the county,
two clear days' notice of such hearing, and he may appear before
such jury and have a personal hearing. If they are of the opinion
that the property requires soon to be disposed of, they shall specify
in writing, a day beyond which they do not deem it prudent that
it should be kept in the hands of the Sheriff. If sueh day occur
before the trial day, he shall thereupon give the same notice as for
goods in execution, and for the same length of time, unless the con­
dition of the preperty renders a more immediate sale necessary.
The sale shall be made accordingly. If the defendant gives his
witten consent, such sale may be made without such finding of
three men. 
Sec. 622. The money arising from such sale shall remain in the
hands of' the Clerk to abide the event of the suit. 
Sec. 623. The Sheriff shall return upon every writ of attach­
ment, what he bas done under it. The return must show the prop­
erty attached, the time it was attached, and the disposition made
of it, by a full and particular inventory; also the appraisement
above contemplated, when such has been made. Where garnishees
are summoned, their names, and the time each was summoned,
must be stated. And where real property is attached, the Sheriff
shall describe it with sufficient certainty to identify it, and where
he can do so, by a reference to the book and page where the deed 
under which the defendant holds it is recorded. He shall return
with the writ all bonds taken under it. Such return must be made 
immediately after he shall have attached sufficient property, or all 
that he can find; or, at latest, OR the first day of the term on which
the defendant is notified to appear. 
SEC. 624. In an action to enforce a mortgage of, or lien upon,
personal property, or for the recovery, partition or sale of such
property, or by a plaintifff having a future estate or interest there­
in, for the security of his rights, where it satisfactorily appears by
the petition, verified on oath, or by affidavits or the proofs in the
cause, that the plaintifff has a just claim, and thai the property is
about to be sold, concealed, or removed from the State, or where
the plaintifff states, on oath, that he has reasonable cause to believe,
and does believe, unless prevented by the Oonrt, the property will
be sold, concealed, or removed from the State, an attachment may
be granted against the property. 
Sec. 625. In an action by a vender of property, fraudulently
purchased, to vacate the contract, and have a restoration of the
property, or compensation therefore, where the petition shows such
fraudulent purchase of property, and the amount of the plaintifff's
claim, and is verified by his oath, an attachment against the prop­
erty may be granted. 
Sec. 626. The attachments in the cases mentioned in the two
last sections, may be granted by the Oourt in which the actien is
brought, or by the Judge thereof, or the Judge of the County
Oourt, upon such terms and conditions as to security, on the part
of the plaintifff, for the damages which may be occasioned by them,
and with such directions as to the disposition to be made of the
attached property, as may be just and proper, under the circum­
stances of each case. 
Sec. 627. In every case, the plaintifff shall be required to give
security for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate sum to
be specified in the order granting the attachment; and where it
may be proper, the Court or Judge may direct that the defendant
ia possession of the attached property, shall be permitted to retain
it, upon givmg such bond, with security, and for such sum u the
Court or Judge may prescribe. 
Sec. 628. No writ of attachment shall be issued by the Ulerk
until the bond on the part of the plaintifff required by the order of 
the Court or J ndge, is executed in his office, by one or more suffi­
cient sureties of the plaintifff. 
Sec. 629. The writ of attachment shall [describe the specific
property against which it is issued, and shall have endorsed upon 
it the direction of the Court or Judge, as to the disposition to be
made of the attached property. It shall be directed, executed, and
returned, as other writs of attachment. 
Sec. 630. The Court may, in any of the cases mentioned under
this head of specific attachments, direct the terms and conditions
of the bond to be executed by the defendant, with security, in order 
to obtain a discharge of the attachment.
SEC. 631. If judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, the Court 
shall apply in satisfaction thereof, 1st-The mo:aeys arising from
the sales of perishable property. 2d-The proceeds of the debts
and funds attached in the hands of the garnishee. If these are
not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, the Court shall order a
sale, by the Sheriff, of any other attached property which may be
under its control. 
Sec. 632. The Court may, from time to time, make and enforce
proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the application of
the monies collected. 
Sec. 633. The Sheriff shall be allowed by the Court the neces­
sary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be paid by the
plaintifff, and taxed in the costs. 
Sec. 634. Any surplus of the attached property and its pro­
ceeds, shall be returned to the defendant. 
Sec. 635. If judgment is rendered in the action for the defend­
ant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached,
or its proceeds, shall be returned to him. 
Sec. 636. Any person, other than the defendant, may, before
the sale of any attached property, or liefore the payment to the
plaintifff of the proceeds thereof, or of any attached debt, present
bis petition verified by oath, to the Court, disputing the validity of
the attachment, or stating a claim to the property or money, or to
ail interest in, or lien on it, under any other attachment, or other­ 
wise, and setting forth the facts upon which such claim is founded;
and the petitioner's claim shall be in a summary manner investi­
gated. The Court may hear the proof or order a referee, or may
empanel a jury to inquire into the facts. If' it is found that the
petitioner has title to, a lien on, or any interest in such property, 
tho Court shall make such order as may be necessary to protect his
rights. The costs of such proceedings shall be paid by either party, 
at the discretion of the Court.
Sec. 637. The facts stated as a cause of attachment, shall not 
be contested in the action by a mere defense. The defendant's
remedy shall be on the bond, but he may, in his discretion, sue
thereon, by way of counterclaim or cross-demand, and in such case,
shall recover damages as in an original action on sueh bond. 
Sec. 638. .A motion may be made to discharge the attachment,
or any part thereof, at any time before trial, for insufficiency of
statement of cause thereof, or for other cause making it apparent
of record that the writ should not have issued, or should not have
been levied on all or on some part of the property held. 
Sec. 639. When an attachment has been discharged, if the
plaintifff then announce his purpose to appeal from such order of
discharge, he shall have two clear days in which to perfect his
appeal, and during that time such discharge shall not operate a
return of the property, nor divest any lien, if such appeal be so
perfected at the end thereof. 
Sec. 640. But if judgment in the cause of action be also given
against the plaintifff he must also, within the same time, take his
appeal thereon, or such discharge shall be final. 
Sec. 641. The attachment law shall be liberally construed, and
the plaintifff, before or during trial, shall be permitted to amend
any defect of form, in the affidavit, bond, attachment, or other pro­
ceeding; and no attachment shall be dismissed for any defect in,
or want of bond, if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, will at once
substitute a sufficient bond, but the statements of cause of attach­
ment shall not be amended, nor shall such cause be stated in the
alternative, but the cause or causes relied on shall each be stated
in a direct and categorical manner, or shall be insufficient. 
Sec. 642. No levy of attachment on real estate shall be notice
to a subsequent bona fide vendee or encumbrancer, unless the
Sheriff making sueh levy shall have entered in a book which shall 
be keptlntheOlerk's oflfoe of each county by the Clerk thereof,
and called Ineutnbraeee Book, a statement that the land, deseri­ 
bing it;ihas been· attached, .. and: stating the cause in which it was
so attached, and when it was done; and: signed by such Sheriff­
and snob bdokshall,~·open .aa other :books ·kept1 by .sneh.Olerk, 
to,pnblicinspection. 
Sec. 643. The word " Sheriff" as used in this chapter, is
meant to apply to constables when the proceedings are in a J us­ 
tice's court. 
Sec. 644:. When the proceedings are in a J uatice's court, the
Justice is to be regarded as the Clerk of the Conrt for all the pnr­ 
poses herein contemplated. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
EXEOUTIONS. 
Sec. 645. Executions may issue at any time before the judg­
ment is barred by the Statute of limitations, and but one execu­
tion shall be in existence at the same time. 
Sec. 646. Judgments or orders requiring the payment ot money,
or the delivery of the possession of property are to be enforced by
execution. Obedience to those requiring the performance of any
other act, is to be coerced by attachment for contempt. 
Sec. 647. Executions from the district court may issue in the
first instance into any county which the party ordering them may
direct. 
Sec. 648. When a judgment has been obtained in one county
of this State, and the judgment creditor desires to send an execu­ 
tion into another county, he must also, if it has not been already
done, send to be filed in such county a transcript of such judg­
ment, and the Sheriff of such county to whom an execution may
come from another county, shall return to the Clerk ot his county
a copy of such execution and all his doings thereon, which shall
be treated by the Clerk of such county, and such entries made in
regard thereto, as if such execution had Issued in that case from
his 'office, to the end that the record in his county may show all
encumbrances by attachment or judgment on any lands taerein 
and all partial or total discharges of the same.
Sec. 649. When sent into any county other than that in which 
the judgment was rendered, return may be made by mail. But
money cannot thus be sent, except by the direction of the party
entitled thereto or his attorney. 
Sec. 650. The execution must intelligibly refer to the judgment
-stating the time and place at which it was rendered, the names 
of the parties to the action as well as to the judgment, its amount,
and the amount still to be collected thereon, if for money; and,
if not for money, it must state what specific act is required to be
performed. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment and interest
out ot the property of the debtor subject to execution. 
Sec. 651. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants ot re­
al property, or trustees, it shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the 
judgment and interest out of such property.
Sec. 652. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or 
personal property, it shall require the Sheriff to deliver the posses­
sion of the same, particularly describing it to the party entitled
thereto, and may at the same time require the Sheriff to satisfy
any costs, damages, or rents and profits, with interest recovered 
by the same judgment out of the property of the party against
whom it was rendered, subject to execution, and the value of the
property for which judgment was recovered, to be specified there­
in, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and shall in that respect
be deemed an execution against property. 
Sec. 653. When it requires the performance of any other act,
a certified copy ot the judgment may be served on the person
against whom it is given, or upon the person or officer, who is re­
quired thereby, or by law to obey the same, and his obedience
thereto enforced. 
Sec. 654. Every officer to whose hands an execution may le­
gally come, shall give a receipt therefore, if required, stating the
hour when the same was received, and shall make sufficient return
thereof together with the money collected on or before the sev­ 
entieth day from such delivery.
Sec. 655. Where the judgment is against husband and wife, 
the execution may issue against the property of either or both of
them. 
Sec. 656. The officer to whom an execution is legally issued,
shall endorse thereon, the day and hour when he received it, and
the levy, sale, or other act done by virtue thereof, with the date,
and the dates and amount of any receipts or payment in satisfac.
tion thereof, the endorsements must be made at the time of the
receipt or act done. 
Sec. 657. When a judgment is against a principal and his 
surety, it shall be the duty of the officer having the collection
thereof to exhaust the property of the principal betore proceeding 
to sell that of the surety.
Sec. 658. The term surety, in the foregoing section, shall em­ 
brace accommodation endorsers, stayers, and all other persons
whose liability on the claim is posterior to that of another-but
the surety shall, if requested by the officer, show property of the
principal, to entitle himself to the benefit of this provision. 
Sec. 659. After exhausting the property of the principal, it
shall be the duty of the officer to subject the property of the other 
parties in the order of their liability in the execution. But the
party subsequently liable, shall, if requested by the officer, show
property of the party liable before him, so as to entitle himself to 
the benefit of this provision.
Sec. 660. But all the parties will be considered as equally lia­ 
ble in all cases, unless the order of liability is shown to the Court,
and recited in the judgment, and the Clerk issuing execution on
the judgment containing such recital, shall state the order of lia­
bility in the execution. 
Sec. 661. When an execution is delivered to an officer, he must
proceed to execute the same with diligence; if executed, an exact
description of the property, at length, with the date of the levy,
shall be endorsed upon or appended to the execution, and if the
writ was not executed, or only executed in part, the reason in such
case must be stated in the return. 
Sec. 662. An execution may be issued and executed on Sun­
day, whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintifff or some
person in his behalf, stating that he believes he will lose his judg­
ment unless process issue on that day. 
Sec. 663. If the Sheriff die or go out of office before the re­
turn of any execution, his successor, or other officer authorized to
discharge the duties of the office in such case, may proceed there­
on in the same manner that the Sheriff should have done. 
Sec. 664. Upon the rendition of judgment, execution may be
at once issued, and shall be by the Clerk on the demand of the
party entitled thereto, and upon its issuance, the Clerk shall enter
on the judgment docket the date of its issuance, and to what eoun­
ty and officer issued, and shall also enteron said docket the return
of the officer with the date of the return, the dates and amount _ot' 
all monies received into or paid out of the office thereoa, and
these entries shall be made at the time of the thing done. 
Sec. 665. The Clerk willfully neglecting or refusing to perform
ariy one of the duties in this chapter imposed, shall be liable to a
penalty of fl:ve hundred dollars, and to the damages to the party
aggrieved, and shall be guilty ef a misdemeanor in office, and on 
conviction thereof, shall be removed from office. , 
Sec. 666. The officer must execute the writ by levying on the
property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in action
by suit in his own name, if necessary, or by selling the same, sel­
ling the other property and paying to the plaintifff the proceeds, 
or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.
Sec. 667. The officer shall in all cases select such property, 
and in such quantities, as will be likely to bring the exact amount
required to be raised, as nearly as practicable, and ha-Ying made
one levy,. may at any time thereafter make other levies if he deem
it necessary. 
Sec. 668. Stock or interests owned by the defendant in any
company, and also debts due him, and property of his in the
hands of third persons, may be leried upon in the same manner
provided for attaching the same .. 
Sec. 669. In proceedings by garnishment on execution, the
garnishee shall be served as in case of attachment ; his answer 
may . be takeµ by the officer in the same way with the same re­
sults ; he may be notified to appear at the term of court in the
same way, and with the same results, and his default shall be at­
tended with the same consequences. The plaintifff may also, if
the garnishee is called into Oourt, have . a case docketed against
him without docket fee, and upon his answer to the officer, isEt•e
may be made and notice thereof given him, or issue may be
made on hia answer in eourt without any notice thereon, if made
at the same term; and in sll these, and every other particular, the
proceedings skaH be the same as under garnishment or attachment
as-ueer as the nature of the case will allow. 
Sec. 670. Proceedings by garnishment on execution shall not 
be in a.ny manner affected by the expiration of the exeeution or
its return, and where parties thereunder have been garnished, the 
officer shall return to· the next term thereafter a copy of the exe­
cution with all his doings thereon so far as the garnishments there­
on are concerned. 
Sec. 671. Bank bills and other things in action, may be levied
upon and sold, or appropriated as hereinafter provided, and as­
signments thereon by the · officer shall have the same effect· a8 it 
made by the defendant, and may be treated as so made.
Sec. 672. After the rendition of judgment, any person indebt­ 
ed to the defendant in executien, may pay to the Sheriff the
amount ot such indebtedness, or so much thereof as is necessary 
to satisfy the execution, and the Sheriff 'a receipt shall be a suffi­
cient discharge therefore. 
Sec. 673. Public buildings owned by the State, or any county,
city, school district, or other civil corporation, and any other pub­
lic property which is necessary and proper for carrying out the
general purpose for which any such corporation is organized, arc
exempt from execution. The property of a private citizen can in
no ease be levied upon to pay the debt of a civil corporation. 
Sec. 674. In case no property is found on which to levy, which
is not exempted by the last section, or if the judgment creditor
elect not to issue execution against such corporation, he is entitled
to the amount of his judgment, and costs in the ordinary eviden­
ces of indebtedness issued by that corporation. And if the debtor
eorporatien issues no scrip or evidences of debt, a tax must be
levied as early as practicable, sufficient to pay off the judgment
with interest and costs. 
Sec. 675. A failure on the part of the officers of the corpora­
tion to comply with the requirements of the last sectioa renders
them personally responsible for the debt. 
Sec. 676. If an officer who levies, or is required to levy an
execution on personal property, doubts whether it is subject to the
execution, he may give the plaintifff therein, or hie agent or at­
torney, notice that an indemnifying bond is required. Bond may,
thereupon, be given, by or for the plaintifff, with one or more suf­
ficient sureties to be approved by the officer, to the effect that the
obligors will indemnify him against the damages which he may
sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of the property, and
will pay to any claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in
consequence of the seizure or sale, and will warrant to any pur­
chaser of the property, such estate or interest therein as is sold; 
and thereupon the officer shall proceed to subject the property to
the execution, and shall return the indemnifying bond to the Dis­ 
trict Court of the county, in which the levy is made.
Sec. 677. If the bond mentioned in the last section is not given, 
the officer may refuse to levy the execution, or if it has been lev­
ied and the bond is not given in a reasonable time after it is
required by the officer, he may restore the property to the person 
f, om whose possession it was taken, and the levy shall· stand dis­
charged. 
Sec. 678. The claimant or purchaser ot any property, for the
seizure or sale of which an indemnifying bond has been taken and
returned \>y the officer, shall be barred of any action against the
officer levying on the property, if the surety on the bond was good
when it was taken. Any such claimant or purchaser may main­
tain an action upon the bond, and recover such damages as he
may be entitled to. 
Sec. 679. Where property for the sale of which the officer is
indemnified, sells for more than enough to satisfy the execution
under which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid into the Oourt 
to which the indemnifying bond is directed to be returned. That
Court may order such disposition or payment of the money te be
made temporarily or absolutely, as may be proper, in respect to 
the rights of the parties interested.
Sec. 680. The sale ot personal property on which an execution 
is levied, shall be suspended at the instance ot any person, other
than the defendant in execution, claiming the property, who shall
execute, with one or more sureties, sufficient for double its value,
a bond to the plaintifff in the execution to the effect that, if it shall
be adjudged that tae property or any part of it is subject to the
execution, he will pay to the plaintifff the value 9t the property so
s!bject, and ten per cent thereon, notj exceedtng:: the amount due
on the execution, and ten per cent the~Qa.""· :_ ,~: ; 
Sec. 681. For the purpose of ta!dng tl1& booo, "mentioned in
the last section, the officer shall select three dieii{terested persons
having the qualifications of jurors, and administer them an oath,
to make a fair appraisement of each article of the property, whose
appraisement in writing shall be recited in the bond. The bond
with the appraleement annexed thereto, shall be retnred to the
District Court of the county in which the levy was made at the
next term thereafter. 
SEC. 682. The party to whom the bond is executed may move
the Court to which it is returned for a judgment thereon against
all or any of the obligors, or their representatives, having given ·
to them ten days notice of the motion. The Court may cause
such issues to be tried at it may prescribe, and direct which party
shall be considered plaintifff in the issues. If the property or any
part of it is found subject to the execution, judgment shall be ren­
dered in favor of the plaintifff therein for the value of' the proper­
ty so subject, and ten per cent thereon, not exceeding the amount
due on the execution, and ten per cent thereon. An execution
may be issued on the judgment forthwith, on which the same en­
dorsement shall be made as on the execution in virtue of which
the property had been seized. 
SEC. 688. Upon the trial of the motion, either party may ob­
ject that the property was not fairly appraised ; and thereupon the
jury trying the facts shall hear evidence respecting, and find the 
value of the property.
Sec. 684. The giving of the bond mentioned in section -­ 
shall not discharge the levy of the execution upon property
claimed. But the officer may leave it subject to the lien of the
levy with the person in whose possession it is found, pending the
proceeding on the bond; and may, in the mean time, proceed
with the execution against other property of the defendant. 
Sec. 685. The provisions of the proceeding sections of this chapter, as to bonds, shall apply to proceedings upon executions
issued by justices of the peace. Indemnifying bonds shall be re­
turned in such cases, with tb.e execntions under which they are
taken, and bonds of claimants of property may be returned to the
justice from whose office the execution issued and motion thereon
shall be made betore ·him on ive days notice. He shall canse a 
juey as in a ~ivif c!BAse, 1!' 1le impanneled to find whether the pro\>­
erty was subject to:th~ ~~ution, and the judgment shall be sub- 
ject to an appeal. ~c. • ' 
Sec. 686. Whenever a" Sheriff or other officer shall levy an
execution upon the property or effects held jointly or in partner­
ship by the debtor or debtors in execution, with others, to satisfy
the separate debt of such debtor or debtors, the Sheriff or other
officer shall not proceed to make sale thereof, except as hereinafter 
provided, if the person or persons, or any of them holding such
joint or partnership interest with the debtor, shall assert an equi- 
table or other claim thereto, and in writing, notify the officer of
the existence of such claim. 
Sec. 687. When a claim is asserted by the joint owners or part­
ners to the property levied upon, the officer shall not, by virtne of
his levy, deprive the joint owners or partners of the possession of
the preperty levied upon, except for the purpose of making an in­
ventory thereof, and having the same appraised. 
Sec. 688. The officer shall proceed to have the property levied
upon appraised, as provided in section 681, unless the value can 
be agreed upon. He shall return the inventory and the appraise­
ment with the execution, to the office from which it issued; and in
his return shall state all the facts eonaected with the levy by him,
and the claim set up, by the joint owner or owners. 
Sec. 689. The execution creditor shall have a lien upon the
property levied upon, to the extent of his claim, if the same does
not exceed the interest of the judgment debtor in the property,
and which shall continue until the levy is disposed of. 
Sec. 690. Upon the execution being returned by the officer,
that he had levied the same upon the property in which the debtor
was joint owner Qr partner, and that the same was claimed by the 
other joint owners or partaers, the execution creditor may proceed
in an action by equitable proceedings, subject to the liatisfaction of
his execution the interest of the debtor so levied upon. 
Sec. 691. If such creditor, at the commencement of his action,
or afterward, shall file an affidavit that he verily believes the prop­
erty levied upon will be removed from the county, or sold, or other­
wise disposed of, with intent fraudulently to defeat his lien, the
Court, or the Judge thereof, in vacation, may make an order
directing the officer to possess himself of the property so levied
upon, unless bond with approved security shall be executed to the
plaintifff in the execution, binding the obligors in said bond to have
the same forthcoming in obedience to any order or judgment of the
Court in the action, which bond shall be taken by the officer, and
returned by him to the Court in which the action is pending. 
Sec. 692. When judgment has been rendered against any one
for the recovery of' money, he may, by procuring one or more suf­
ticient freehold sureties to enter into a recognizance acknowledging 
themselves security for the defendant for the payment of the judg­
ment, together with the interest and costs accrued and to accrue,
have a stay of execution from the time of rendering judgment, as
Iollowa : 
If the sum for which judgment was rendered, inclusive of costs,
do not exceed fl ve dollars, twenty days. 
If such sum and costs exceed five, but not fifteen dollars, thirty
days. 
If such sum and costs exceed fifteen, but not twenty-five dollars,
torty days. 
If such sum and costs exceed twenty-five, but not torty dollars,
sixty days. 
If saeh sum and costs exceed fifty dollars, then ninety days.
Sec. 693. The provisions of the foregoing section shall not be 
enjoyed by any one who does net take such itay within ten days
from the expiration of the term at which judgment is rendered.
Nor shall the same apply to a case of foreclosure of' mortgage, nor
shall an appeal be taken after such stay has been obtained, nor
shall a stay be taken on a judgment entered as herein contempla­
ted, against one who is surety in the stay of execution. 
Sec. 694. The surety for stay of execution may be taken and
approved by the Clerk, and the recognizance entered of record.
The undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the payment of
the judgment, interest and costs, that may accrue at, or before the
expiration of the term of' the stay of execution. 
Sec. 695. When the surety is entered after execution issued,
the Olerk shall immediately notify the Sheriff of the stay, and he
shall forthwith return the execution, with his doings thereon. 
Sec. 696. All property levied on before stay of execution, and
all written undertakings, for the delivery of personal property to
the Sheriff, shall be relinquished by the officer, npon stay of execu­
tion being entered. 
Sec. 697. Every recognizance taken as above provided, shall
have the effect of a judgment confessed, from the date thereof,
against the property of the sureties. 
Sec. 698. At the expiration of the stay, it shall be the duty of
the Clerk to issue a joint execution against the property of all the 
judgment debtors and sureties, describing them as debtors or sure­
ties therein. 
Sec. 699. When any Court shall render judgment against two 
or more persons, any of whom is surety for any other in the con­
tract on which the judgment is founded, there shall be no stay of 
execution allowed, if the surety object thereto at the time of ren­ 
dering the judgment, whereupon it shall be ordered by the Court
that there be no stay, unless the surety for the stay of execution 
will undertake specifically to pay the judgment, in case the amount
thereof cannot be levied of the principal defendant. 
Sec. 700. Any surety for the stay of execution may file with
the Clerk an affidavit, stating that he verily believes he will be
lis ble for the judgment, interest and costs thereon, unless execution
issues immediately; and the Clerk shall thereupon issue execution
forthwith, unless other sufficient: surety be entered before the
Clerk, as in other cases. 
Sec. 701. If other snflieient surety be entered, it shall have the
force of the original surety entered before the filing of the affidavit,
and shall discharge the original surety. 
Sec. 702. Where a stay ot execution has been taken, such con­
fessed judgment shall not release any judgment lien, by virtue of
the original judgment for the amount then due. The officer hold­
ing the said execution, shall return thereon what amount was made
from the principal debtor, and how much from the surety. 
Sec. 703. The following property of private individuals is ex­
empt from execution : All wearing apparel kept for actual use, and
suitable to the condition of the party, and trunks and other recep­
tacles to contain the same; one musket or rifle; the proper tools,
instruments, or books, of any farmer, mechanic, surveyor, clergy­
man, lawyer, physician, teacher, or professor; the horse, or the
team, consisting ot not more than two horses or mules, or two yoke
of cattle, and the wagon, or other vehicle, with the proper harness
or tackle, by the use of which any physician, public officer, farmer,
teamster, or other laborer, habitually earns his living; all private
libraries not kept for the purpose of sale, family Bibles, portraits
and paintings; a seat or pew, occupied by the debtor or his family,
in any house of public worship; and an interest in a public or pri­
vate burying ground, not exceeding one acre for any one defendant. 
Sec. 704. If the debtor is the head of a family, there is further
exempt, his homestead, as provided by law ; one cow and calf; one
horse, unless a horse has been exempted for him under the last section ; fifty sheep, and the wool therefrom ; five hogs, and all
pigs under six months; the necessary food for all animals exempt 
from execution, for sixty days ; all flax raised b7 the defendant,
and the manufactures therefrom ; one bedstead and the necessary 
bedding, for every two in the family; all cloth manufactured by
the defendant not exceeding one hundred yards in quantity; house­
hold and kitchen turniture, not exceeding one hundred dollars in
value; all spinning wheels and looms, and other instruments of 
domestic labor kept tor actual use ; and the necessary provisions
and fuel for the use of the family for six months. 
Sec. 705. The word " family," as used in the last section, does
not include strangers or boarders lodging with the family. 
Sec. 706. The earnings of such debtor for his personal services,
or those of his family, at any time within ninety days next prece­
ding the levy, are also exempt from execution and attachment. 
Sec. 707. None of the exemptions contained in this chapter are
for the benefit of a single man not the head of a family, nor of non­
residents, nor of those who have started to leave this State, but
their property is liable to execution, with the exception of ordinary
wearing apparel, and trunks to contain the same; but any person
coming to this State with the intention of remaining, is a resident
within the meaning of this chapter. 
Sec. 708. Where a debtor absconds and leaves his family, such
property shall be exempt in the hands of the wife and children, or
either of them. 
SALE. 
Sec. 709. The sheriff must give four weeks notice of the time
and place of selling real property, and three weeks notice of that 
of personal property.
SEC. 710. Notice shall be given by being posted up in at least 
three public places of the county, one of which shall be at the
place where the last District Oourt was held. In addition to which,
in case of the sale of real estate, or where personal property to the
amount of two hundred dollars or upwards is to be sold, there shall
be two publications of such notiee, in some newspaper printed in
the county, if there be one. In constables' sales, there shall be no
newspaper publication, and the notice shall be posted in three
public places of the township ot the justice, and one of them at his 
office door ; the time of such notice shall be two weeks.
Sec. 711. An officer selling without the notice above preserib- 
' 
ed, shell forfeit one hundred dollars to the defendant in execution,
in addition to the actual damages sustained by either party ; but
the validity of the sale is not thereby affected. 
Sec. 712. The sale must be at public auction, between nine
o'clock in the forenoon, and four o'clock in the afternoon. 
Sec. 713. When there are no bidders, or when the amount of­
fered is grossly inadequate, or when from any cause the sale is
prevented from taking place on tho day fixed, the sheriff may
postpone sale for not more than three days, without being requir­
ed to give any farther notice thereof; but he shall not make more
than two such postponements, and such postponement shall be
publicly announced when the sale should have taken place. 
Sec. 714. When property sells for more than the amount re­
quired to be collected, the overplus must be paid to the defendant,
unless the officer have another execution in his hands, on which
said overplns may be rightfully applied. 
Sec. 715. If the property levied on sell for less than sufficient
for that purpose, the plaintifff may order out another execution, 
which shall be credited with the amount of the previous sale. The
proceedings under this second sale, shall conform to those herein­
before prescribed. 
Sec. 716. When the property is unsold for want of bidders, the
levy still holds good; and if there is sufficient time the property 
may again be advertised and sold under the same execution, or
the execution may be returned and a vendi-uorvi eeponas issued. 
Sec. 717. If the defendant is in actual occupation and posses­
sion of any part of the land levied on, the officer having the exe­
cution, shall, at least twenty days previous to such sale, serve the
defendant with written notice, stating that the execution is levied
on said land, and mentioning the time and place of sale ; and sales
made without the notice required in this section, are void. 
Sec. 718. At any time before nine o'clock, a. m., of' the day of
sale, the defendant may deliver to the officer a plan of division of
the lands levied on, subscribed by him, and it shall in that case,
be the duty of the officer to sell, according to said plan, so much
of the land as may be necessary to satisfy the debt and costs, and
no more. If no such plan is furnished, the officer may sell with­
out any division. 
Sec. 719. When the purchaser fails to pay the money when de­
manded, the plaintifff or his attorney may elect to proceed against 
him for the amount ; otherwise the sheriff shall treat the sale as a
nullity, and may sell the property again on the same day, or atter
a postponement, as above authorized. 
Sec. 720. Where any person has heretofore, or shall hereafter,
purchase at sheriff's sale, any real estate on which the judgment 
upon which the execution issued was not a lien at the time of the
levy, and which fact was unknown to the purchaser, the District
Court of the county shall set aside such sale on motion, notice hav­ 
ing been given to the debtor, as in case of action, and a new exe­
cution may be issued to enforce the judgment, and upon the order 
being made to set aside the sale, the sheriff or judgment-creditor
shall pay over the purchaser the purchase money. 
Sec. 721. Money levied upon may be appropriated without be­
ing advertised or sold. The same may be done with bank bills,
drafts, promissory notes, or other papers of the like character, if
the plaintifff will receive them at their par value, as cash, or if the
officer can exchange them for cash at that value. 
Sec. 722. When a judgment has been obtained against the
executor of one deceased, which the personal estate of the deceas­
ed is insufficient to satisfy, the plaintifff may file his petition in the
office of the clerk of the District Court, wherein judgment was
rendered against the executor, the heirs and devisees of real estate
(if there art, such.) setting forth the facts, and that there is real
estate of the deceased within the State, describing its location and
extent, and praying the Court to award execution against the
same. 
Sec. 723. A notice shall thereupon be endorsed upon said
petition, notifying the persons against whom the petition is filed,
to appear on the first day of the term, and show cause, if any they
have, why execution should not be awarded. 
Sec. 724. The petition and notice shall be served and returned
in the ordinary manner, and the same length of time shall be al­ 
lowed for appearance, as in civil actions.
Sec. 725. At the proper time, the Court shall award the execu­ 
tion, unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary.
Sec. 726. The non-age of the heirs or devisees shall not be 
deemed such sufficient cause.
Sec. 727. Mutual judgments, the executions on which are in 
the hands or the same officer, may be set off, the one against the
other; except that the costs shall not be so set off, unless the bal- 
anee of cash actually collected on the larger judgment is sufficient
to pay the costs of both judgments, and such costs shall be paid 
therefrom accordingly.
Sec. 728. When real property has been levied upon, if the 
estate is less than a lease-hold, having two years of an unexpired
term, the sale is absolute. 
Sec. 729. When the estate is of a larger amount, the property
is redeemable, as hereinafter prescribed. 
Sec. 730. At the time of the sale, the sheriff shall give to the
purchaser a certificate containing a description of the property and
the amount of money paid by such purchaser ; and stating that un­
less redemption is made within one year thereafter, according to law, 
he or his heirs Ot" assigns, will be entitled to a deed for the same.
Sec. 731. The defendant may redeem such property at any 
time within one year from the day of sale, as hereinafter provid­
ed; and will, in the mean time, be entitled to the possession of'
the property. 
Sec. 732. For the first six months after such sale, his right to
redeem is exclusive, but if no redemption is made by him at the
end of that time, any creditor of the defendant, whose demand is
a lien upon such real estate, may redeem the same at any time
within nine months from the day of sale. But a mechanic's lien,
before judgment thereon, is not of such a character as to entitle
the holder to redeem. 
Sec. 733. Any creditor whose claim becomes a lien prior to
the expiration of the time allowed by law tor redemption by cred­
itors, may redeem. A mortgagee may thus redeem before or after
the debt secsred by the mortgage falls due. 
Sec. 734:. Creditors having the right of redemption, may re­
deem from each other within the time above limited, and in the
manner herein provided. 
Sec. 735. The terms of redemption in all cases, will be the re·
imbursement of the amount paid by the then holder, added to the
amount of his own lien, with interest, upon the whole at the rate
of ten per cent. per annum, together with costs, subject to the ex­
ception contained in the next section. But where a mortgagee,
whose claim is not yet due, is the person from whom the redemp­
tion is thus to be made, a rebate of interest, at the rate of ten per
cent. per annum, must be made by such mortgagee on his claim. 
Sec. 736. When a senior creditor thus redeems from his junior, 
he is required to pay off only the amount of those liens which are
paramount to his own, with the interest and costs appertaining to
those liens. 
Sec. 737. But the junior creditor may in all such casea prevent
a redemption by the holder of the paramount lien, by paying off
that lien, or by leaving with the clerk before hand the amount 
necessary therefore.
Sec. 788. A junior judgment creditor may redeem from a senior 
judgment creditor, by paying to the party, the clerk or the sheriff, 
if execution has issued, the full sum due, with interest and costs,
and shall become there•y vested with the title to the judgment so
redeemed. 
Sec. 789. If paid to the sheriff, ae shall give the party:ii1re­
deeming a certificate, that he has paid such sum for the redemp­
tion of the judgment, describing it, which being presented to the
clerk, he shall enter such redemption Oil the judgment docket, as
he shall also do if the money is paid to himself. 
Sec. 740. Whenever a senior creditor redeems from a junior
creditor, the latter may, in return, redeem from the former, and
so on, as often as the land is taken from him by virtue of a para­
mount lien. 
Sec. 741. After the expiration of nine months from the day of
sale, the creditors can no longer redeem from each other, except 
as hereinafter provided. But the defendant may still redeem at
any time before the end of the year, as aforesaid. 
Sec. 742. Unless the defendant thus redeems, the purchaser,
or the creditor, who last redeemed, prior to the expiration of the
nine months aforesaid, will hold the property absolutely. 
Sec. 743. In case it is thus held by a redeeming creditor, his
lien, and the claim out of which it arose, will be held to be ex­
tinguished, unless he pursues the course pointed out in the next 
section.
Sec. 744. If he is unwilling to hold the property and credit 
the defendant therefore, with the fall amount of his lien, he must,
within ten day1 after the nine months aforesaid, enter on the sale
boek the utmost ameunt that he is thus willing to credit on his 
claim.
Sec. 745. Any unsatisfied lien creditor, within ten days after 
the expiration of the time thus allowed to make the entry required
in the last section, may redeem the property by paying the amount 
ot the legal disbursements of the last holder, as hereinbefore reg­
ulated, added to the amount thus entered on the sale book, to·
gether with interest and costs. 
Sec. 746. Such redemptioner shall also credit the defendant
with the full amount of his lien, unless within ten days after re­
deeming as aforesaid, he likewise makes a like entry on the sale
book, in which case any unsatisfied lien creditor, may :a like man­
ner redeem within ten days as aforesaid, and so on, until there are
no more unsatisfied liens, or until the expiration of the year for re­
demption, the defendant having the final privilege of redeeming 
from the last redemption, at tho end of the year.
Sec. 747. The mode of making the redemption i11 by paying 
the money into the clerk's office for the use of the persons thereto
entitled. The person so redeeming, if not defendant in execu­
tion, must also file his affidavit, or that of his agent or attorney,
stating as nearly as practicable, the amount still unpaid and due 
on his own claim.
Sec. 748. The clerk shall thereupon give him a receipt for the 
money, stating the purpose for which it was paid. He must also,
at the same time, enter in the sale book a minute of such redemp­
tion, of the amount paid, and the amount of the lien of the last
redemption as sworn to him. 
Sec. 749. A creditor redeeming as above contemplated, is en­
titled to receive an assignment of the certificate issued by the
sheriff, to the original purchaser as herein before directed. 
Sec. 750. When the property has been sold in parcels, any dis­
tinct portion may be redeemed by itself. 
Sec. 751. When the interests of several tenants in common,
have been sold on execution, the undivided portion of any or
either of them may be redeemed separately. 
Sec. 752. The rights ot a defendant in relation to redemption,
are transferrable, and the assignee has the like power to redeem. 
Sec. 753. If the defendant or his assignee fail to redeem, the
sheriff must, at the end of the year, execute a deed to the person
who is entitled to the certificate as herein before provided, or to his
assignee. If the person entitled be dead, the deed shall be made
to his heirs, but the property will be subject to the payment of the
debts of the deceased, in the same manner, as if acquired during 
his lifetime. 
Sec. 754. The purchaser of real estate at a sale on execution, , 
need not place any evidence of his purchase upon record, until
twenty days after the expiration of the full time of redemption.
Up to that time the publicity of the proceedings is constructive
notice of the rights of the purchaser, but no longer. 
Sec. 755. Deeds executed by a sheriff in pursuance of such
sales, are presumptive evidence of the regularity of all previous
proceedings, in the case, and may be given in evidence without
preliminary proof. 
Sec. 756. When real estate has been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who has succeeded to his inter­
est, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for
any injury to the property committed after the sale and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance. 
Sec. 757. The term "defendant" as herein used, is intended to
designate the party agair.st whom, and the term "plaintifff" the
party in favor of' whom, any execution has issued. 
Sec. 758. The provisions of this chapter are intended to em­
brace proceedings in justices' courts, so far as they are applicable ;
and the terms " sheriff'," and "clerk," are accordingly to be un­
derstood, as qualified in this chapter, in the same manner, in this
respect, as in that relative to attachment. 
CHAPTER XX. 
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTAL TO EXECUTION. 
Sec. 759. When an execution against the property of a judg­
ment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment has
been issued from the District or Supreme Court to the sheriff ot
the county where such debtor resides, or it he do not reside in the
State, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was ren­
dered, or a transcript of a justices' judgment has been filed, and
execution issued thereon, is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the owner of the judgment is entitled to an order for the ap­
pearance and examination of such debtor. 
Sec. 760. The like order. may be obtained at any time after
the issuing of an execution upon proof, by the affidavit of the
party or otherwise, to. the satisfaction of the Court or officer who 
is to grant the same, that any judgment debtor has property which 
he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg- 
ment.
Sec. 761. Such order may be made hy the Court in which the 
payment was rendered, or by any judge thereof in vacation, or
by the County Court of the county to which the execution has
been issued as aforesaid, or by the judge thereof. And the debtor
may be required to appear and answer before either of such courts
or officers, or before a referee appointed by the court or judge who
issued the order. 
Sec. 762. The debtor on his appearance, may be interrogated
in relation to any fact calculated to show the amount of his prop­
erty or the disposition which has been made of it, or any other
matter pertaining to the purpose for which the examination is pt,r­
mitted to be made. And the interrogatories and answers shall be
reduced to writing and preserved by the Court or officer before
whom they are taken. All examinations and answers under this 
chapter shall be on oath, and no person shall, on examination,
pursuant to this chapter, be excused from answering any question
on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of a
fraud, but his answers shall not be used as evidence against him
in a prosecution for such fraud. 
Sec. 763. Witnesses may be required by the order of the Court
or judge, or by subpoena from the referee t.o appear and testify 
upon any proceedings under this chapter in the same manner as
upon the trial of an issue. 
Sec. 764. It any property, rights or credits, subject to execu­
tion, are thus ascertained, an execution may be issued, and they
may be levied upon accordingly. The Court or Judge may order
any property of the judgment debtor not exempt by law, in the
hands either of himself or any other person or corporation, or due
to the judgment debtor, to be delivered up, or in any other mode
applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment. 
Sec. 765. The Court, or J ndge, 'may also, by order, appoint the
Sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver ot 
the property of the judgment debtor, and may also, by order, for­
bid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt by law, or may forbid any interference there­ 
with.
Sec. 766. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor has any 
equitable interest in real estate in the county in which proceedings 
are had, as mortgagor, mortgagee or otherwise, and the interest of
said debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the person
or persons holding the legal estate, or the person or persons having 
any lien on, or any interest in the same, without controversy as to 
the interest of such person or persons, holding such legal estate or
interest therein, or lien on the same, the receiver may be ordered
to sell and convey such real estate, or the debtor's equitable inter·
est therein. Such sale shall be conducted in all respects in the
same manner as is provided by this Code for the sale of real estate 
upon execution.
Sec. 767. If the Sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he and his 
sureties shall be liable on his official bond, for the faithful discharge
ot his duties as such receiver. 
Sec, 768. The judge or referee acting under the provisions of
this chapter, shall have power to continue his proceedings from
time to time, until they shall be completed. 
Sec. 769. The judge may, in hie discretion, order a reference
to a referee appointed by him to report the evidence, or the facts. 
Sec. 780. Should the judgment debtor fail to appear after be·
ing personally served with notice to that effect, or should he fail
to make full answers to all proper interrogatories thus propounded
to him, he will be guilty of contempt, and may lte arrested and
imprisoned until he complies with the requirements ot the law in
this respect. And if any person, party or witness disobey an or­
der oi the Court or Judge, or referee, duly served, such person,
party or witness may be punished as for a contempt. 
Sec. 781. The order mentioned herein shall be in writing and
signed by the Court or judge, or referee, making the same, and
shall be served as an original notice in other cases. 
Sec. 782. Sheriffs, referees, receivers and witnesses, shall re­
ceive such compensation as is allowed for like services in other
cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and the collection thereof
from such party, or parties as ought to pay the same shall be en­
forced by an order. 
Sec. 783. Upon proof to the satisfaction of the Court, or ofli­
cer authorized to grant the order aforesaid, that there is danger 
that the defendant will leave the State, or that he will conceal
himself the said Court or officer, instead of the order aforesaid
may issue a warrant for the arrest ot the debtor, and for bringing
him forthwith before the Court or officer authorized to take his 
examination 88 herein before provided. After being thns brought
before the said Oourt or officer, he may be examined in the same
manner and. with the like effect 88 is above provided. 
Sec. 784. Upon being brought before the Oourt or officer, he
may enter into an undertaking in such sum as the Court or officer 
shall prescribe, with 011e or more sureties, that he will attend from
time to time, tor examination, before th-e Oourt or officer, as shall
be directed, in default whereof, he shall continue under arrest, and
may be committed to jail on the warrant of such Oourt or officer,
from time to time, for safe keeping, until the examination shall be
concluded. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
EQUITABLE AOTIONS BUPPLEMElTTAL TO EXECUTION. 
Sec. 785. After an execution directed to the sheriff of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the sheriff of
the county of the defendant's residence, is returned by the proper
officer, either as to the whole or part thereof, in substance, no
property found to satisfy the same, the owner of the judgment
may, in his discretion, institute an action by equitable proceed­ 
ings in the Court from which t1r.e execution issued, or in any Owrt
having jurisdiction of the cause, for the discovery of any money,
chose in action, equitable or legal interest, or any other property 
ro which the defendant is entitled, and for subjecting the same to
the satisfaction of the judgment; and in such· actions, persons in­
debted to the defendant in the execution, or holding the money or
property in which he has an interest, or holding the evidences or 
securities for· the same, may be also made defendant,e.
Sec. 786. The answers of all defendants shall be verified by 
their own oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the
Court shall enforce full and explicit diseoveries in such answers
by process by contempt. 
Sec. 787. In the action mentioned in the preceding sections,
the plaintifff may have an attachment against the property of the
defeadant in the execution similar to the general attachments pro­
vided fer in the chapter 18 on attachment, without either the afli.
davit or bond therein required. 
Sec. 788. A lien shall in this case be created on the property
of the defendant, by the levy of the attachment and service of the
notice, and copy of petition on the person holding or controlling
such property. 
Sec. 789. The Oourt shall enforce the surrender of the money
or securities therefore, or of any other property of the defendant in· 
the execution, which may be discovered in the action, and for this
purpose may commit to jail any defendant or garnishee, failing or
refusing to make such surrender, until it shall be done, or the
Oourt is satisfied that it is out of his power to do so. 
Sec. 790. The use of the appliances of this equitable action is
no waiver of the use of the remedy of the chapter next preceding.
Nor is the use of the appliances of that chapter a waiver ot the
right to also use the appliances of this, but any party entitled to
one may use either or both as he may deem it desirable. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
JUDGMENT BY OONFESSION. 
Sec. 181. A judgment by confession, without action, may be 
entered by the clerk of the District Oourt, or by a justice of the
peace, if within his jurisdiction, in the manner hereinafter pre·
scribed. 
Sec. 782. Such confession can be only tor money due, or to
become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities on
behalf of the defendant, and must be for a specified sum. 
Sec. 783. A statement in writing must be made and signed by
the defendant, and verified by his oath to the following effect, and
filed with the clerk or justice of the peace: 
1st. If for money due, or to become due, it must state concisely
the facts out of which the indebtedness arose, and that the sum
confessed therefore is justly due, or to become due, as the case
may be. 
2d. If for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contin­
gent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting such
liability, and must show that the sum confessed therefore does not 
exceed the same.
Sec. 784. If in the District Oourt, the elerk shell thereupon 
make an entry of jadgment in his Court record, for the amount
thus confessed, and costs, and shall issue execution thereon, as in
other cases. 
Sec. 785. If in a justice's court, the justice shall thereupon en­
ter a judgment on his docket with costs, and issue execution as
above directed. If a transcript of such judgment be filed with the
clerk of the District Court, a copy of the statement must be filed
with it. 
Sec. 786. Upon an authority given before this statute takes
effect, and which was valid when given, judgment may be render­
ed up, as herein mentioned, or as nearly so as the circumstances of
the case will permit. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
OFFER TO CONll'ESS. 
Sec. 787. Before an action for the recovery of money is brought
against any person, he may go into the Court of the county of his
residence, or of that in which the persC\n having the cause of action
resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action, or before the
clerk of either of . such Courts in his office, and offer to confess
judgment in favor of such person for a specified sum on such 
cause of action. Whereupon, if such person, having had the same
timely notice as if he were defendant in an action, that the offer
would be made, ot its amount and of the time and pJace of making
it, does not attend to accept the confession, or attending, refuses
to accept it, and should afterwards commence an action upon such
cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered to be con­
fessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action ; and en the trial
thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the
cause of' action or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be
given in evidence. 
Sec. 788. After an action for the recovery of money is brought,
the defendant may offer in Court to confess judgment, for part
of the amount claimed or part of the causes involved in the action.
Whereupon, it' the plaintifff being present, refuses to accept such
confession of judgment, in full of his demands against the defend­
ant in the action, or having had two clear days notice that the 
offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time of ma.king it,
fails to attend, and on the. trial does not recover more than was so 
offered to be confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all the costs of the
defendant, incurred aft.er the ofter. The offer shall not be deemed
to be· an admiseion of the cause of action, or amount to which the 
plaintifff was entitled, not be given in evidence upon the trial. 
CHAPTER %XIV. 
OFFEK TO OOMPROlll8B. 
Sec. 789. The defendant in an action for the recovery of mo­
ney only, may at any time after service of notice, and before the
trial, serve upon the plaintifff or his attorney, an offer in writing,
to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum of money,
or to the effect therein specified with costs. If the plaintifff accept
the offer and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney, 
within five days after the ofter is made, tJae offer and an affidavit 
that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited,
may be filed by the plaintifff, or the defendant ma:, file the accept­ 
ance with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit ; and in either 
case, the offer and acceptance shall be entered upon record, and
judgment shall be rendered by the Court accordingly. If the no­ 
tice of acceptance is not given in the period limited, the offer shall
be deemed withdrawn, aad shall not be given in evidence nor 
mentioned on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judgment
for more than was offered by the defendant, he eaanot recover 
costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the
offer. 
Sec. 790. In an action for the recovery of money only, the de­
fendant having answered, may serve upon the plaintifff or his
attorney, an offer in writing, that if he fails in his defense, the
amoant of the recovery shall be assessed as a specified sum. If
the plaintifff accepta the ofter and gives notice thereof to the de­
fendant, or his attorney, within fin clear days after it was served,
or within two clear days if served in term time, and the defend­
ant· tails in his defense, the judgment shall be for the amount so 
agreed upon. If the plaintifff does not so accept the offer he shall 
prove the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been 
made, the offer shall not be given in evidence er mentioned on the
trial. And if the amount recovered by the plaintifff does net ex­
ceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover 
his costs incurred in the defense, in respect to the question of
amount to be taxed under the direction ot the Court. 
Sec. 791. The making of any offer pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, shall not be a cause tor a continuance of an action
or a postponement of a trial. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
SVB:MITl'ING OONTBOVERSIES WITHOUT AOTION, O& IN AOTION. 
Sec. 792. Parties to a question in difference which might be
the subject of a civil action, may without action present an agreed
statement of the facts thereof to any Court having jurisdiction of
the subject matter. 
Sec. 793. It must be shown by affidavit, that the controversy
is real, and that the proceeding .is in good faith to determine the
rights of the parties thereto. 
Sec. 794. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were pending. 
Sec. 795. The case, the submission, and the payment, shall
constitute the record. 
Sec. 796. The judgment shall be with costs, and it may be en­
forced, and shall be subject to review in the same manner, as if it 
'had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided for in
the submission. 
Sec. 797. The same may be also done, at any time before tria!
in any action then pending subject to the same requirements, and
attended by the same results as in a case without action, and such 
submission of a stated case shall be an abandonment by both par­
ties of all pleadings filed in such cause, and the cause shall stand 
in the agreed case alone, which must provide also for any lien had 
.by any attachment, and for any property in the custody of the
law, else such lien and such legal custody will be held waived. 
Sec. 798. Th" parties may, if' they think fit, enter into an
agreement, in writing, that upon the judgment of the Oourt being 
given in the affirmative or negative of the question or the qnes- 
tions of law, raised by such special case, particular property there­
in described, or a sum of money fixed by the parties, or to be as­
certained by the Court, or in such manner as the Court may. direct
it, shall be delivered to and vested in one of the parties by the
other, or in case of money shall be paid by one of such parties to
the other of them, either with or without costs of the action and
the judgment of the Court may be entered for the transfer and
deli very of such property, or for such sum as shall be so agreed, 
or ascertained with or without costs, as the case may be.
Sec. 799. In case no agreement shall be entered into as to the 
costs of such action, the same shalt follow the event, and be recov­
ered by the successful party. 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
DEPOSITS. 
Sec. 800. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination
of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any
money or property capable of delivery, which is in any degree the
subject of litigation, and which is held by him as trustee for another
party, the Court, or Judge thereof, may order the same to be de­
posited in the office of' the Clerk, or delivered to such party, with
or without security, subject to the farther direction of the Court. 
Sec. 801. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Court or
Judge has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other prop­
erty, and the order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing the
disobedience, may make an order requiring the Sheriff to take the
money or property, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with
the directions of the Court or Judge. 
Sec. 802. The Sheriff has the same power in such cases, as
when acting by authority of a writ of replevin. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
RECEIVERS. 
Sec. 803. On the petition of either party to a civil action or
proceeding, wherein he shows that he has a probable right to any 
of the property which is the subject of the controversy, and that
such property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of' being lost 
or materially injured or impaired, the Court, or in vacation, the
Judge thereof, if satisfied that the interests of one or both the par.
ties will be thereby promoted, and the substantial rights of' neither
unduly infringed upon, may appoint a receiver to take charge of
and control such property under its direction, during the pendency
of the action, and may order and coerce the delivery of it to him. 
Sec. 804. Before entering upon the discharge of hie duties, he
must be sworn faithfully to discharge hie trust to the best of his
ability, and must also file with the Clerk a bond with sureties, to 
be by him approved, in a penalty to be fixed by the Court or Judge,
and conditioned to the faithful discharge of his duties, and that he
will obey the orders of the Court in respect thereto. 
Sec. 805. Subject to the control of the Court, a· receiver has
power to bring and to defend actions, to take and keep possession
of property, to colleet debts, to receive the rents and profits of real
property, and generally, to do such acts in respect to the property
committed to him, as the Court may authorize. 
CHAPTER XXVIII 
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS. 
Sec. 806. Judgments or final orders may be obtained, on me­ 
tion, by sureties against their principals, by sureties against their
co-sureties, for the recovery of money due them, on account of pay·
ments made by them as such, by elieats against attorneys, plaintifffs
in execution against Sheriffs, constables and other officers, for the
receiving of money or property collected for them, and damages,
and in all other cases specially authorized by Statute. 
Sec. 807. Notice of such motion shall be served on the party
against whom the judgment or order is sought, at least ten days 
· before the motion is made.
Sec. 808. The notice shall state, in plain and ordinary language, 
the nature and grounds of the motion, aad the day on which it
will be made. 
Sec. 809. Unless the motion is made and filed with the case, 
on or before the day named in the notice, it shall be considered as
abandoned. 
Sec. 810. The motion shall be heard and determined without
written pleadings, and judgment given according to law and the 
rules of equity. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
MOTIONS .AND OJmEBS. 
SEC. 811. Every direction of a Court er Judge, made or entered
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an order. 
Sec. 812. A motion is a written application for an order ad­
dressed to the Court, or to a J ndge, in vacation, by any party to a
snit or proceeding, or by any one interested therein. 
Sec. 818. When a party is in Court, he shall, without service
of notice, take notice of any motion made dnrinK term on the filing
of the same, and service of a copy thereof: The same shall be true 
of a party constructively in Court, who has not in fact appeared as
to any motion made, either in term or during vacation, without
service of cvpy; but w1tere a party has in fact appeared, notice of
any motion made in vacation, and copy of motion, shall be served
on him or his attorney. 
Sec. 814. When notice of a motion is required to be served, it 
must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the
actioa or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the Court or 
J adge before whom it is to be made, the place where, and the day
on which it will be heard, and if affidavits are to be used on the
hearini, the notice shall state that fact, and it shall be served ten
days before hearing, unless the Court or Judge direct shorter notice. 
Sec. 815. Notices and copies of motions mentioned in this 
chapter, ma.y 1i>e served by any one who would be authorized to 
serve an original notice, and may also be served by the attorney 
of the party making the motion.
SEC. 816. The service shall be on each of' the parties adverse to 
the motion, if more tha• one, or on an attorney of record, of such
party. 
Sec. 817. The service may be personal on such party or attor- 
ney, or may be left at the usual place ot residence of·the party, in
the same manner as is provided for the service of the original notice 
in civil actions; or it may be served on the attorney, by being left
at his office, with any person havin1 the charge thereof. 
See. 818. In cases unprovided for specially, the notice and copy
may, in order to affect the party adverse, be served on the same
persons a.s those on whom might be served the original notice in 
the case.
Sec. 819. It shall be the duty of' any officer authorized to serve 
any notice and copy, and when such notice and copy shall be de­
livered to him for service within his county, to serve at once the
same, and make prompt return to the party who delivered the same
to him, and a failure to do so shall be punished as a disobedience
of' the process of the Qourt. · 
Sec. 820. The return of proof of sernce must state particularly
the manner in which it was made. 
Sec. 821. When the party has no known place of abode in this
State, and no attorney in the county where the action is pending,
or where the parties, plaintifffs or defendanta are numerous, the
Court or Judge may direct the mode of serving notices and copies, 
and to what persons they shall be given.
Bee. 822. Several objects may be included in the same motion, 
it they all grow out of, or are connected with the action or proceed­
ing in which it is made. 
Sec. 823. Orders made ont of Oomt shall forthwith be filed
with and entered by the Olerk in the- journal of the Oourt, in the
same manner as erders made in the term. 
SEC. 824. Testimony to sustain or resist a motion, may be pre­ 
sented in the form of affidavits, if the same does not appear other­
wise. But upon the hearing ot any motion, it shall be lawful for
the Court or Judge, at his discretion, and upon such terms as he
may think reasonable, from time to time, to order such document
as he may taink fit to be produced, and such witnesses as he m9Y 
think necessary to appear, and be examined, 'IM& 1'008, either befor13
such Oourt or Judge. 
Sec. 895. The motions of Chapter sixteen shall not be ·aft"ect.ed
by the provisiona of this Ohapter, and all motions made in term to
dissol ve an attachment in whole or part, or in any way regarding
security for costs, or to dismiss a cause fer any irregularity, or to
change venue, or to continue a cause, or to open up a default, shall' 
be served by mere notice, without copy of motion, and may be
heard on the morning after that on which notice thereof is served,
and sooner, if sooner reached, and necessary to be passed upon be­
fore trial, and any motion made in term affecting an action or
proceeding then pending in such Oourt, may be made on such
notice as the Oourt shall direct, or without notice, it the Oourt so 
direct. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
Sec. 826. A plaintifff who is a non-resident of this State, or a
corporation, before commencing an action, shall file in the Olerk's
office a bond, with a sufficient surety, who must be a resident of the
county where snit is brought, to be approved by the Olerk tor the 
payment of all costs which may accrue in the action in the Court
in which it is brought, or in any other to which it may be carried,
either to the defendant or to the officers of the Oonrt. 
Sec. 827. An action in which a bond for costs is required by
the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on the
motion of the defendant at any time before trial, unless in a rea­ 
sonable time, to be allowed by the Oonrt, after the motion is made
therefore, such bond is filed securing all past and future costs ; and
the action shall not be dismissed if a bond for costs is given in
such time as the Court may allow. 
SEC. 828. If the plaintifff in an action after its institution
becomes a non-resident. of this State, he shall give security for
costs in the manner and under the restrictions provided in the 
preceding sections of this chapter.
Sec. 829. A guardian or a next friend suing for an infant or a 
person of unsound mind, and every plaintifff suing as an assignee,
except an endorsee of a bill of exchange, or of a promissory note 
when insolvent, shall be required to give security for costs; and
on failing to do so in the time directed by the Oourt, upon the
motion of the defendant, his action shall be dismissed. · 
Sec. 880. In an action in which a bond for costs has been
given, the defendant may at any time before trial, make a motion
for additional seenritj' on the part of the plaintifff; and if on such 
motion the Court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's bond
has removed from the State, or is not sufficient for the amount
thereof, it may dismiss the action unless in a reasonable time to
be fixed by the Court, sufficient security is given by the plaintifff. 
Sec. 831. Where an action is brought by an attorney of a
plaintifff, who is required by the first section of this chapter to give
security tor costs, but who has tailed to do so, the attorney shall
be liable as a surety for the costs of the action until a bond is
given. 
Sec. 832. No attorney or other officer ot the Court shall be
received as formal security for costs in any proceeding in Court,·
in civil cases. 
Sec. 838. After final judgment has been rendered in an action
in which security for costs has been given as required by this chapter, the Court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person having the right to such costs, or any part thereof, may ren­
der judgment summarily, according to the chapter on summary
proceedings in the· name of the defendant or his legal representa­
tives against. the sureties for costs, for the amount of costs ad­
judged against the plaintifff, or so much thereof as may remain 
unpaid.
Sec. 884. In no other than the cases herein stated except costs 
of the Clerk, shall a plaintifff be required to give security for any
costs, the application for such security shall be by motion, in wri­
ting, filed with the case, and the facts supporting it, must be shown 
by affidavits annexed thereto, which may be responded to by
counter affidavits,· on or before the hearing of the motion, and 
each party shall file a11 his affidavits at once, and none thereafter, 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
OOSTB. 
Sec. 885. Costs shall be recovered by the successful against
the losing party. Bat where the party is successful as to a part
of his demand, and fails as to part, unless the case is otherwise
provided for, the Court may make on rendering judgment, an
equitable apportionmeut of' costs. 
Sec. 836. On all motions the Oourt may give or refuse costs, 
- 
al its discretion, to the extent of ten dollars, unless where it is
otherwise provided by law, which costs may be absolute or directed
to abide the event of the action. 
Sec. 837. In actions where there are several plaintifffs, or sev­
eral defendants, the costs shall be apportioned according to the
several judgments rendered; and where there are several canses
of action embraced in the, same petition, or several isaaes, the
plaintifff shall recover costs upon the issues determined in hie favor,
and the defendant shall recover costs upon the issues determined 
in his favor. 
Sec. 388. All costs accrued at the instance of the successful
party, which cannot be collected out of the other party, may be 
recovered, on motion, by the persons entitledfto them, against the
successful party. 
Sec. 889. The necessary fees paid by the successful party, in
procuring copies of deeds, bonds, wills, or other records filed as
part of the testimony, shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
Sec. 840. Postage paid by the officers ot the Court, or by the
partiee in sending process, depositions and other papers, being
part of the record, by mail, shall be taxed in the bill of costs. 
Sec. 841. When a pleading contains a defense stating matter
which arose after the commencement of the action, whether such 
matter of defense be alone or with other matter of defense which
arose before the action, the party affected by such matter may 
confess the same, and thereupon shall be entitled to the costs of 
the cause, as to the party pleading such :matter up to the time of 
such pleading.
Sec. 842. Wilen a plaintifff dismisses his action or suffers it to 
abate by the death of the defendant or other cause, or where the 
suit abates by the death of the plailltiff, and his representatives
fail to revive the same, according to law, judgment for costs may
be rendered against such plaintifff or representatives, and if against 
a representative shall be paid as other claims against the estate.
Sec. 843. The co-parties against whom judgment has been re­ 
covered, are entitled as between themselves to a taxation of the
coets of witnesses whose testimony waa obtained at the instance
of one of the co-parties, and inured exclusively to his benefit. 
Sec. 844. Where an action is dismisaed from any Court for
want of jurisdiction, or because it has not been regularly trans·
ferred from an inferior to a superior Court, the costs shall be ad- 
judged against the party attempting to ·institute or bring up the
cause. 
Sec. 845. When any party recovers costs, the Olerk shall in­
clude in the costs, for the fee ot such party's attorney, (if he have
one) -- dollars. The Clerk shall also tax, in favor of the party
recovering costs, the allowance of his witnesses, the fees of offi­
cers, the compensation of referees, the necessary expenseq of
taking depositions by commission or otherwise, and any further
sum fer any other matter which the Oourt may have awarded as
costs, in the prC\gress of the cause, or may deem just to be taxed. 
Sec. 846. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by as­
signment, after the commencement of the action, or in any other
manner, become the property of a person not a party to the ac­
tion, such party shall be liable for the costs in the same manner
as if he were a party. 
SEC. 847. Any persen aggrieved by the taxation of a bill of'
costs, may, upon application, have the same re-taxed by the Ceurt,
or by a referee, appointed by the Court, in which the application
or proceeding was had, and in such re-taxation all errors shall be
corrected ; and if the party aggrieved shall have paid any unlaw­ 
ful charge, by reason of the first taxation, the Clerk shall pay the
costs of re-taxation, and also to the party aggriered, the amount
which he may hare paid by reason of the allowing of such un­
lawful charge. 
Sec. 848. In cases of appeals from the District Court, the Clerk
shall make a complete bill of costs, which shall accompany the
record, and a copy of the same shall be placed upon the· exeeutioa
docket of the Com below. 
Sec. 849. When the costs accrued in the Supreme Court and
the Court below, are paid to the Olerk of the Supreme Court, he
shall pay so much of them as accrued in the Court below to the
Clerk of said Oourt, and take his receipt for the same. 
Sec. 850. On receiving such costs, the Clerk of the Court be­
low shall charge himself with the money upon his execution
docket, and pay it to the persons entitled to the same. 
SEC. 851. The law of costs shall be construed remedially, and
not as the penal law. And if any case shall occur not directly
or by fair implication embraced in the express provisions of the, 
law, the Court may make such disposition of the costs, as in its
sound discretion may seem right, 
Sec. 852. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be
finally entered, shall be computed by the Clerk and added to the
costs of the party entitled thereto. 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
SURVIVOR AND RJ!:VIVOR Oi' ACTIONS. 
Sec. 853. No cause of action, em delicw, dies with either or
both the parties, but the prosecution thereof may be commenced
or continued by or against their personal representatives. 
REVIVOR OF ACTIONS. 
Sec. 854. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in
an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal repre­
sentative cease, it the right of action survive to or against the re· 
maining parties, the action may proceed; the death of the party,
or the cessation of his powers, being stated in the record. 
Sec. 865. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if 
the right of action survive in favor of, or against his representa­
tives or successor, the action may be revived and proceed in their
names. 
Sec. 856. Tho revivor shall be by a conditional order of the
Court, thatthe action be revived in the names of the representa­
ti ves or successors of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
and proceed in favor of or against them.. 
Sec. 857. The order may be made on the motion ot the ad­
verse party, or of the representatives or successors of the party
who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death, or the
cessation of his powers, which with the names and capacities of
his representatives, or successor, shall be stated in the order. 
Sec. 858. If the order is made by consent of the parties, the
action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not made by consent,
the order shall be served in the same manner, and returned within
the same time, as an original notice, upon the party adverse to the
one making the motion, and if sufficient cause be not shown 
against the revivor at that term of Court at which the defendant 
would be bound to appear were the notice an original one, the ac­
tion shall .stand revived. 
Sec. 859. Upon the death of a plaintifff in an action, it may be
revived in the names of his representatives, to whom his right has
passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representa­
tives, the revivor shall be in his name; where it has passed to his
heirs or devisees who could support the action if brought anew.
the revi vor may be in their names. 
Sec. 860. Upon the death of a defendant in an action, wherein
the right or any part thereof, survives age.inst his personal repre­ 
sentatives, the revivor shall be against him; and it may also be
against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both, when the
right of action, or any part thereof, survives against them. 
Sec. 861. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the
recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his rights
or claims to such property, the action may be revived against hie
heirs or devisees, or both, and an order therefore, may be forth­
with made in the manner directed in the preceding sections of this title. 
Sec. 862. An order to revive an action against the representa­
tives, o(successor of a defendant, shall not be made, without the
consent of such representatives or successor, unless it be made
within one year from the time it could have been first made. 
Sec. 863. An order to revive an action in the names of the
representatives or successor of a plaintifff may be made forthwith.
but shall not be made without the consent et the defendant after
the expiration of one year from the time the order might have
been first made; but where the defendant shall also have died, or
his powers have ceased in the mean time, the order of revivor on
both sides may be made in the period limited in the last section. 
Sec. 864. When it appears to the Court by affidavit, that
either party to an action has been dead, or where a party sues, or
is sued as a personal representative, that his powers have ceased
for a period so long, that the action cannot be revived in the names
of his representatives, or successors, without the consent of both
parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket. 
Sec. 865. At any term of the Court succeeding the death ot
the plaintifff, while the action remains on the docket, the defend­
ant having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose
names the action might be revived, ten day's notice of he appli- 
cation therefore may have an order to strike the action from the
docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaintifff unless the
action is forthwith revived. 
Sec. 866. When by the provisions of the preceding sections,
an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed 
by reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial
at the term, the revivor is complete, had no death, or cessation of
powers taken place. 
CHAPTER XXXIII. 
RlllVIVOK OF JUDGMENTS. 
Sec. 861. An execution ma7 be issued on a judgment at any
time, until the collection of it is barred by the Statute of limitations,
although no execution may have been previously issued thereon. 
Sec. 868. The death of one or &11 the plaintifffs shall not prevent
an execution being issued thereon, but on such execution, the Clerk
shall endorse the death of such of them as are dead, and it all be
dead, the names of the personal representatives, or the last survivor, 
it the judgment passed to the personal representatives, or the names
of the survivor's heirs, it the judgment was for real property. 
Sec. 869. The Sheriff', in acting upon an execution endorsed as
provided in the last section, shall proceed as if the surviving plaint­
iff or plaintifffs, or the personal representatives or heirs, were the
only plaintifffs in the execution, and take boads accordingly. 
Sec. 870. Before making the endorsements named above, an
affidavit shall be filed with the Clerk by one of the plaintifffs, or
personal representatives, or heirs, or their attorney, ot the death,
and that the persons named as such, are the persenal representatives
or heirs, and in the case of personal representatives, they shall file
with the Clerk a certificate of their qualification, according to law
in this State. 
Sec. 871. The death of part only of the defendants, shall not
prevent execution being issued, which, however, shall operate alone
on the survivors and their property. 
Sec. 872. The defendant may move the Court to quash an ex­
ecution, on the ground that the personal representatives or heirs
of a deceased plaintifff are not properly stated in the endorsement 
on the execution, and· during the vacation of the Oourt, may obtain
an injunction, upon its being made to appear that the persons
named are not entitled t.o the judgment on which the execution was
issued. 
Sec. 873. The writ ot certiorari may be granted whenever
specially authorized by law, and especially in all cases where an
inferior tribunal, board or officer, exercising judicial functions, is
alleged to have exceeded his proper jurisdiction, or is otherwise
acting illegally, when in the judgment of the Court applied to tor
the writ there is no other plain, speedy and adequate remedy. 
Sec. 874. The writ may be granted by the District Court of
the proper county, but if to be directed to a District Court or the
Judge thereof, then by the Supreme Court-and shall command
the defendant therein to certity fully to the Court from which the
same issues, at a specified time and place, a transcript of the rec­
ords and proceedings, as well as the facts in the case, (describing
and referring to them, or any of them, with convenient certainty)
and also to have then and there the writ. 
Sec. 875. If a stay of proceedings is sought, the Court may 
require a bond, and may fix the penalty and conditions thereof'.
Sec. 876. The petition for this Court must state facts constitu­ 
ting a case, wherein the writ may issue and must be sworn to, and
the Court may require a notice of the application to be given to
the adverse party, or may make an order to show cause why the
writ should not issue, or may hi its discretion grant the writ with­ 
out notice.
Sec. 877. The writ must be served and the proof of such ser­ 
vice made in the same manner as is prescribed for the original
notice in a civil action, except that the original shall be left with
the defendant and the return or proof of service made upon a
copy thereof. 
Sec. 878. It the return to the writ be defective, the Court may
order a farther return to be made, and may compel obedience. to
the writ, and to such farther order by attachment, if necenary.
CHAPTER XXXIV. 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI. 
Sec. 879. When a tnll return has been made, the Court must
proceed to hear the parties, or such of them as may attend tor that
purpose, and may thereupon give judgment affirming or annulling
the proceedings below, or in its discretion, correcting those pro­
ceedings, and prescribing the manner in which the defendant shall
proceed farther in the matter. 
Sec. 880. From the decision of the District Court, an appeal
lies to the Supreme Court, as in other cases. 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
PROOBEDINGS TO REVERSE, V AO.A.TE OR MODIFY JUDGMENTS. 
Sec. 881. A judgment rendered or order made in the District
Court, or by a judge thereof, may be reversed, vacated or modi­
fied, either by the Supreme Court or by the District Court in
which the judgment was rendered or order made. 
Sec. 882. A judgment or order may be reversed or modified
by the Supreme Court for errors appearing on the record. 
Sec. 883. The proceedings to obtain such reversal or modifica­
tion shall be by appeal as prescribed by law. 
Sec. 884. A mistake of the Clerk shall not be ground for an
appeal until the same has been presented and acted upon in the
District Court. 
SEC. 885. The District Court in which a judgment has been
rendered, or by which, or by the J ndge of which a final order
has been made, shall have power after the term at which such
judgment or order was made to ncate or modify such judgment 
or order:
1st. By granting a new trial for the cause within the time, and 
in the manner precribed by sections -- on new trials.
9d. By a new trial granted on proceedings against defendants 
served by publication only as prescribed in section 559.
8d. For mistake, neglect or omission of the Clerk or irregu­ 
larity in obtaining a jugdment or order. 
4th. For fraud practiced 'by the successful party in obtaining
the judgment or order. 
5th. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married wo­
man, or person of unsound mind, when the condition of such de- 
iendant does not appear in the record, nor the errors in the pro­
. ceedings. 
6th. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment
in the action. 
7th. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing the
party from prosecuting or defending, 
8th. For error in a judgment shown by an infant within twelve
months after arriving at full age. 
Sec. 886. The proceedings to correct mistakes, or omission of
the Clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order shall
be, by motion served on the adverse party, or en his attorney in
the action, and within one year, and when made to vacate a judg­
ment because of irregularity in obtaining it, must be made on the
second day of the succeeding term. 
Sec. 887. The proceedings to obtain the benefit of sub-divis­
ions 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, of section 885, shall be by petition, verified 
by affidavit setting forth the judgment or order, the facts or errors
constituting a cause to vacate or modify it, and the facts consti­
tuting a defense to the action if the party applying was a de­
fendant, and such proceedings must be commenced within one
year after the judgment or order was made, unless the party en­
titled thereto be an infant, married woman or person of unsound
mind, and then within one year from the removal of sueh disa­
bility. 
Sec. 888. In such proceedings the party shall be brought into
Court, in the same way, on the same notice as to time, mode of
service, and mode of return, and the pleadings shall be governed
by the principles, and issues be made up by the same formula,
and all the proceedings conducted in the same way as near as can
be as in an original" action by ordinary proceedings according to
this code, except that defendant shall introduce no new cause, and
the cause of the petition shall alone be tried. 
Sec. 889. The judgment shall not be vacated on motion or
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the
action in which the judgment is rendered, or if the plaintifff seeks 
its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action, and when a jud~­
ment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it shall he
preserved to the modified judgment. 
Sec. 890. The Court may first try and decide upon the grounds 
to vacate or modify a judgment or order before trying or deciding
upon the validity of the defense or cause of action. 
Sec. 891. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings or the 
whole or part thereof, which injunction may be granted by the
Court or the judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by
affidavit or petition sworn to, or by exhibition of the record, that
the party is entitled to have such judgment or order vacated or
modified. 
Sec. 892. In all cases ot afflrmance of the judgment or order, 
when the proceedings have been suspended, judgment shall be
rendered against the plaintifff in error for the amount of the former 
judgment, interest, and coats, together with damages at the dis­
cretion of the Court, not exceeeing ten per cent. on the amount of 
'the judgment . 
Sec. 893. The appeal shall not be taken, except within one
year from the rendition of the judgment or order, unless the party
taking the same was an infant, married woman, or of unsound
mind, at the time of its rendition; in which cases, such parties or
their legal representatives, may take an appeal within one year,
after the removal of their disability or death, whichever may first 
happen.
Sec. 894. The cause shall be docketed as it was in the Court 
below, and the party taking the appeal shall be called the appel­
lant, and the other party the appellee. 
Sec. 895. An appeal is taken by the service of a notice, in
writing, on the adverse party, his agent, or any attorney, who ap­
peared for him in the case in the District Court, and also upon
the clerk of the Court wherein the proceedings were had, stating
the appeal from the same, or from some specific part thereof, de­
fining such part. 
Sec. 896. An appeal from part of an order, or from one of the
judgments of a final adjudication, or from· part of a judgment, shall
not distort or delay the rights of any party to any judgment or
part of a judgment, or order not appealed from, but the same shall
proceed, as if no such appeal had been taken. 
Sec. 897. An appeal shall not be perfected until the notice 
thereof has been served upon both .the party and the clerk, and
the clerk paid or secured, (unless already secured,) his fees for a
transcript; whereupon the clerk shall forthwith transmit by mail
express, or a safe and less expensive messenger, not a party, nor 
the attorney of a party, a transcript of the record in the cause, or
of so much thereof as the appellant in writing in his notice has 
directed, to which shall be appended copies of the notices of ap­
peal, and of the supersedeas bond, if any. 
Sec. 898. In an action for ordinary proceedings, and in an ac­
tion by equitable proceedings, tried by the second method of try­
ing equitable actions, all proper entries made by the clerk, and all 
papees pertaining to the cause, and filed therein, (except subpoenas,
depositions, and other papers, which are used as mere evidence,)
are to be deemed part of the record. Bnt in an action by eqnita­
ble proceedings tried by the first method of trying equitable ae­
tions, the depositions and all papers which were used as evidence,
are to be certified up to the Supreme Court, and shall be so certi­
fied, not by transcript but in the original form. But a transcript
of a motion, affidavit, or other paper, when it relates to a collatteral matter, shall not be certified, unless by direction of the ap­
pellant. If so certified, when not material to the determination
of the appeal, the Court may direct the person blamable therefore
to pay the costs thereof. 
Sec. 899. The notices of appeal must be served fifteen days
before the first day of the next term of the Supreme Court, or the
same shall not then be tried, unless the appellee shall give the
appellant ten days before the term, notice indicating that he will 
insist on a hearing at such term, in which event the cause shall
be heard at such term, unless the appellant shall, on a sufficient
showing, obtain a continuance. 
Sec. 900. If the appellant having taken an appeal fifteen days
before the term, fails to file a transcript in the Supreme Court, on·
the morning of the first day of that part of the term, devoted to
causes from the district whence comes the appeal, or if not taken
as many as fifteen days before the term, he fail to have the case
so filed at the next succeeding term on the morning aforesaid, in
either event, unless the appellant file at the time, when such tran­
script should be filed, the certificate ot. the clerk stating when he
was served with notice, and that he has not had sufficient time to
prepare a transcript, the appellee may file a transcript. of the judg- 
ment, and of the notice served on the clerk, and may, on motion,
have the appeal dismissed, or the judgment affirmed. 
Sec. 901. If the transcript has been sent up, but the appellant
does not file the same, when the same should be filed as herein
provided the appellee may file the same, and may, on motion,
have the appeal dismissed, or the judgment affirmed, as the Court
from the circumstances of the case shall determine. 
Sec. 902. If the transcript being filed, errors are not assigned
by the morning of the first of those days devoted to causes from
the district whence comes the appeal, the appellee may, on motion,
have the appeal dismissed, or the judgment or order affirmed. 
Sec. 903. A part of several co-parties may appeal, but in such
case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the other co­ 
parties, and file the proof thereof, with the clerk of the Supreme
Court. 
Sec. 904. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they cannot nor
can any of them take an appeal afterwards; nor shall they derive
any benefit from the appeal, unless from the necessity of the
cause. 
Sec. 905. Unless they appear and decline to join, they shall
be deemed to have joined, and shall be liable for their due pro­
portion of costs. 
Sec. 906. The death of one or all of the parties shall not cause
the proceedings to abate, but the names of the proper persons
shall be substituted, as is provided in such cases in the District 
Court, and the cause may proceed. The Court may also, in such
case grant a continuance, when such a course will be calculated to
promote the ends of justice. 
Sec. 907. The service of all notices of appeal, or in any way
growing out of such right, or connected therewith, and all notices
in the Supreme Oourt, shall be in the way provided tor the ser­ 
vice ef like notices in the District Court, and they may be served
by the same person and returned in the same manner, and the
original notice of appeal must be returned, immediately after ser­
vice, to the office of the clerk of the District Court where the suit
is pending. 
Sec. 908. It shall be the duty of the appellant to file a perfect
transcript, and to that end-the clerk of the District Court, must at
any time on his suggestion of diminution of the record, and on
the payment of fees, certify up any omitted part of the record, 
according to the truth, as the same appears in his offic~ ot record;
and such applicant shall not be entitled to any continuance, in or­
der to correct the record, unless it shall clearly appear to the Court
that he is not in fault. Subject to which requirement, either party
may, on motion before trial day, obtain an order on the clerk of
the District Court, commanding him to transmit at once to the
Supreme Court, a true copy of such imperfect or omitted part of
the record, as shall be in general terms described in the affidavit
and order. Such motion must be supported by affidavit, unless
the diminution be apparent or admitted by the adverse party, and
must not be granted unless the Court is satisfied that it is not 
made tor delay.
Sec. 909. Where a view of an original paper in the action may 
be important to a correct decision of the appeal, the Court may
order the Clerk of the District Court to transmit the same, which
he shall do in some safe mode, to the Clerk of the Supreme Court,
who shall hold the same subject to the control of the Court. 
Sec. 910. The appellant may be required to give security for
costs, under the same circumstances as those in which plaintifffs in
civil actions in the District Court, may be so required. 
Sec. 911. An appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment
or order, or any part thereof, unless a aupersedeas is issued, and
no appeal or supersedeas shall vacate or affect the lien of the judg­
ment appealed from. 
Sec. 912. A supersedeas shall not be issued until the appellant
shall cause to be executed before the Clerk ot the Court which ren­
dered the judgment or order, by one or more sufficient sureties, to
be approved by such Clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant
shall pay to the appellee all costs and damages that shall be ad­
judged against the appellant on the appeal; also, that he will sat­
isfy and perform the judgment or order appealed from, in case it
shall be affirmed, and any judgment or order which the Supreme
Court may render, or order to be rendered, by the inferior Court,
not exceeding in amount or value the original judgment or order,
and all rents, or hire, or damages to property during the pendency
of the appeal, out of the possession of which the appellee is kept
by reason ef the appeal. It the bond is intended to stay proceed­
ings, or only a part of the judgment or order, it shall be varied so
as to secure the part superseded alone. When such bond has been
affirmed by the Clerk, and filed, he shall issue a written order 
commanding the appellee and all others, to stay proceedings on
such judgment or order, or on such part as is superseded, as the
case may be. 
Sec. 913. If the appellee believe the supersedas bond defective,
or the sureties inaaffleient, he may move the Supreme Court, if in
session, or in its vacation, on ten days written notice to the appel­
lant, may move any Judge of said Court, or the Judge of the Dis­
trict Court where the appeal was taken, to discharge the super­
sedeas, aad if the Court, or such Judge, shall consider the sureties
insufficient, or the bond substantially defective in securing the
rights of the sppellee, the Court, or such Judge, shall issue an order
discharging the supersedeas, unless a good bond, with sufficient
sureties, be executed by a day by him fixed. The order, if made
by a Judge, shall be in writing, and signed by him, and upon its
filing, or the filing of a certified copy of the order when made in
Court, in the office of the Clerk of the District Oourt, execution
and other proceediags for enforcing the judgment or order may be
taken, if a new and good bond is not filed and approved by the day
fixed as aforesaid. 
Sec. 914. But another supersedeas may be issued by the Clerk,
upon the execution before him, of a new and lawfnl bond with
sufficient sureties, as hereinbefore provided. 
SEC. 915. If the judgment or order is for the payment of money,
the penalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the judgment
and costs. It not for the payment of money, the penalty shall ae
sufficient to save the appellee harmless from the consequences of 
t"J\~ing the appeal. But it shall in no case be less than one hundred
dollars. 
Sec. 916. The taking of' the appeal from a part of a judgment
er order, sad the filing of a bond as above directed, does not cause
a stay of execution as to any part of the judgment or order not 
appealed from.
Sec. 917. When execution has issued prior to giving the bond above 
contemplated, the Clerk shall countermand the same.
Sec. 918. Property levied npon and not sold at the time such 
countermand is received by the Sheriff, shall forthwith be delivered
up to the judgment debtor. 
Sec. 919. The Clerk shall arrange the appeals upon the docket, 
setting a proper number for each day of the term, and placing
together those from the same judicial district. 
Sec. 920. The Supreme Court may reverse or affirm the judg­
ment or order below, or the part of either appealed from, or may
render such judgment or order as the District Court (or Judge)
should have done, according as it may think proper. 
Sec. 921. The Supreme Court, where it affirms the judgment,
shall also, if the appellee moves therefore, render judgment against
the appellant and his sureties in the bond above mentioned, for the
amount of the judgment, damages and costs referred to therein, in
case such damages can be accurately known to the Court without
an issue and trial. 
Sec. 922. Upon the afflrmance of any judgment or order for
the payment of money, the collection of which, in wkole or part, 
has been superseded by bond, as above contemplated, the Court
shall award to the appellee 'damages upon the amount superseded;
and if satisfied by the record, that the appeal was taken for delay
only, must award such sum as damages, not exceeding fifteen per
cent. thereon, as shall effectually tend to prevent the taking of 
appeals for delay only.
Sec. 993. It the Supreme Court affirm the ju.dgment or order, 
it may send the cause to the District Court to have the same car­
ried into effect, or it may itself issue the nececesaarj- process for
this purpose, and direct such process to the Sheriff of the proper
county, according as the party thereto may require. 
Sec. 924. If by the decision of the Supreme Court, the appel­
lant becomes entitled to a restoratien of any part of the money or
property that was taken from him by means of such judgment or
order, either the Supreme or District Court may direct execution
or writ of restitution to issue for the purpose of restoring to such
appellant his property or value thereof. · 
Sec. 925. Property acquired by a bona. fide purchaser, under a
judgment subsequently reversed, shall not be affected by such
reversal. 
Sec. 926. The Supreme Court shall have power to enforce its
mandates upon inferior Courts and officers, by fine and imprison­ 
ment, which imprisonment may be continued until obeyed. •
Sec. 927. It a petition for re-hearing be filed, the same shall 
suspend the decision or procedendo, if the Court, on its presenta­
tion, or one of the Judges, if in vacation, shall so order, in either 
18 
of which cases such decision and procedendo shall be suspended
until the next term. 
Sec. 928. The petition for re-hearing shall be the argument of
the applicant therefore, and if the Oourt think that such argument
requires a reply, it shall so indicate to the other party, and he may
make reply within such time as said Oourt shall allow, and with a
view to a re-hearing, the Court may extend the suspension of pro­ 
ceedings yet farther, if need be.
Sec. 929. A judgment or order shall not be reversed for an 
error which can be corrected, on motion, in the inferior Court,
until such motion has been made there and overruled. 
Sec. 930. An assignment of error need follow no stated form,
but must, in a way, as specific as the case will allow, point out the
very error objected to. Among several points in a demurrer, or in
a motion, or Instructions, or rulings in an exception, it must desig­
nate which is relied on as an error, and the Court will only regard 
-errors which are assigned with the required exactness.
Sec. 931. All motions must be entered in the motion book, and 
shall stand over till the next morning after that morning on which
entered, and till atterJiaving been publicly called by the Court,
unless the parties otherwise agree, and the ad verse party shall be 
deemed to have notice of such motion.
Sec. 932. The Court shall hear all the causes docketed, when 
not continued by consent, or for cause shown by the party, and
the party may be heard orally or otherwise, in his discretion. 
Sec. 983. When the Court takes a cause under advisement, it
shall file its opinion at the next term which is held thereafter at 
the Capital.
Sec. 934. No cause is decided until the opinion in writing is 
filed with the Clerk.
Sec. 935. If remanded to the District Court to be carried into 
effect, such decision, and the order of the Court thereon, being cer­
tified thereto and entered on the records ot that Court, shall have
the same force and effect as if made and entered during the session
of the Court in that district. 
SEC. 936. Executions issued from the Supreme Court, shall be
the sa,:ie as those from the District Court, and attended with the
same consequences, and shall be returnable in the same time. 
Sec. 987. The petition in replevin must be sworn to, and it
must state- 
1. A partiicular description of the property claimed.
2. Its actual value, and where there are several articles, the 
actual value of each.
3. The facts constituting the plaintifff's right to the present 
possession thereof, and must define the extent of his interest in
the property, whether it be full or qualified ownership. 
4. That it was neither taken on the order or judgment of a
Court against him, nor under an execution or attachment against 
him, or against the property. But if it was taken by either of
these modes, then it must state the facts constituting an exemption
from seizure by such process. 
5. The facts constit1tting the alleged cause of detention thereof
according to his best belief. 
6. The amount of damages which the affiant believes the
plaintifff ought to recover for the detention thereof. 
Sec. 938. He shall also execute a bond to the defendant, with
sureties to be approved by the clerk, in a penalty at least equal to
twice the value of the property sought, conditioned that he will 
appear at the next term of the Court and prosecute his snit to
judgment and return the property, if a return be awarded, and 
also pay all costs and damages that may be adjudged against him.
This bond shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and is for the
use of any person injured by the proceeding, and a judgment for
money rendered against the plaintifff shall also go against the sur­
eties on the bond. 
Sec. 939. The clerk shall thereupon issue a writ of' replevin
directed to the sheriff to take the property therein described and
deliver the same to the plaintifff. The ordinary original notice
must also be served on the defendant in the usual manner. 
Sec. 940. When any of the property is removed to another
county after the commencement of the action, counterparts of the 
writ of replevin may issue on the demand of the plaintifff to such
other county, and may be executed upon such goods found in such
county, and farther writs of replevin and the necessary counter­
parts thereof may issue as often as may be necessary. 
Sec. 941. The sheriff must forthwith execute the writ by tak­
ing possession of the property therein mentioned, if it i1 found in
the pessession of the defendant, or of his agent, or of any other
person who obtained possession thereof from the defendant, di­
rectly or indirectly after the writ was placed in the sheriff's hands,
for which purpose he may break open any dwelling house or other
inelosnre, having first demanded entrance· and exhibited his au­
thority, if required. 
Sec. 942. When it appears by affidavit that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the writ cannot
be executed, the Court may compel the attendance of the defend­
aat and examine him on oath as to the situation of the property,
and punish a willful obstruction or hindrance of the writ, and a
disobedience- of the order of the Court in this respect, as in case
of contempt. 
Sec. 948. The sheriff must return the writ on or before the
first day of the trial term, and shall state htlly what he has done
thereunder. If he has taken any property he shall describe par­
ticularly the same. 
Sec. 944. The officer having taken the property or any part
thereof, shall forthwith deliver the same to the plaintifff, on the
payment of his costs. 
Sec. 945. If a third person claim the property or any part
thereof, the plaintifff may amend and bring him in as a co-defend­
ant, or the defendant may obtain his substitution by the proper
mode, or the claimant may himself intervene by the process of in­
tervenor. 
Sec. 946. The judgment shall determine which party is en­
titled to the possession. of the property, and shall designate his
right therein, and it such party have not the possession thereof,
shall also determine the value of the right of such party, which
right shall be absolute as to an adrerse party having no right in
such property, and shall also award such damages to either party
as he may be entitled to, for illegal detention of such property. 
Sec. 947. The party entitled thereto, may have execution for
the money found due Jmn, or may, in his discretion, have execu­
tion for the delivery of the property, and it the property or any article thereof cannot be obtained oa execution, he may have exe- 
cution for the Talue of such article. .
Sec. 948. When it appears by the return ot the officer or by 
the affidavit of the plaintifff, that any specific property which has
been adjudged to belong to one party, has been concealed or re­
moved by the other, the Court or a judge may require him to at­
tend and be examined on oath, respecting such matter, and may 
enforce its order in this respect as in cases of contempt. 
CHAPTER XXXVII. 
DETINUE. 
Sec. 949. An action may be had in which the plaintifff may
claim delivery of personal property to be made after judgment, or
the value thereof, in his discretion, if the specific property cannot
be then obtained. 
Sec. 950. The petition must be sworn to, and must conform to
the requirements of sub-divisions, one, two, three, four, five and
six, of section 937 of the chapter on replevin. 
Sec. 951. The judgment shall define and declare the plaintifff's title, if he establishes the same, and shall also declare the value
of such rights, as in replevin. 
Sec. 952. The plaintifff having obtained such alternative judg­
ment, shall stand in the position of a part,y in replevin, having
such judgment and shall enjoy the same right of choice and the
same appliances to enforce the same and all his rights therein,
which such party' in replevin enjoys. 
CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
ACTIONS l'OR THE REOOVERT OF REAL PROPERTY, 
Sec. 953. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real
property and a right to the immediate possession thereof, may re­
cover the same by action, which may be brought against any per­
son acting as owner, landlord or tenant of the property claimed. 
Sec. 954. The petition need but state generally, without stat­
ing the facts constituting the right, that the plaintifff is entitled to
the possession of the premises particularly describing them, also
the quantity of hie estate and the extent of his interest therein, 
and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession,
and the damages, if any, which he claims for withholding the
property ; but if he claims other damages than rents and profits,
he shall state the facts constituting the cause thereof. 
Sec. 955. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a
tenant, the landlord may be substituted, notice thereof being given
him, as in an original action. 
Sec. 956. When the defendant is a non-resident having an
agent of record tor the property in the State, service may be made
upon such agent in the same manner and with the like effect as 
though made on the principal.
Sec. 951. The answer ot the defendant and of each, if more 
than one, must set forth what part of the land he claims, and what
interest he claims therein, generally and without the facts consti­
tuting the right, and if as mere tenant, the name and residence of
his landlord, and need state nothing more than this. 
Sec. 958. The Oourt may grant continuances in cases of this
nature, for reasons of less importance than those required to be
set forth in ordinary civil actions. 
Sec. 959. Where the defendant makes defense, it is not neees­
. rary to prove him in possession of' the premises. 
Sec. 960. The plaintifff cannot recover for the use and occupa­
tion of the premises for more than six years prior to the com­ 
mencement of the action.
Sec. 961. When the plaintifff shows himself entitled to the im­ 
mediate possession of the premises, judgment shall be enteredand a
writ of possession issued accordingly. 
Sec. 962. An action for the recovery of real property against
a person in possession cannot be pre-judged by any alienation made
by such person either betore or after the commencement of the 
action.
Sec. 963. If the interest of the plaintifff expire before the time 
in which he could be put in possession, he can obtain a judgment 
for damages only.
Sec. 964. Where there is no proof against some of the de­ 
fendants, the Court may order a discontinuance as to them before
the testimony in the case is closed. 
Sec. 965. Where there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants,
any one or more plaintifffs may recover against one or more of the
defendants, the premises 01" any part thereof or any interest therein, 
or damages according to the light of the parties; but the recovery shall not be for a greater interest than that claimed. , 
Sec. 966. Judgments in proceedings of this nature are as con­
clusive as those in actions relating to personal property except as
herein otherwise provided. 
Sec. 967. The preceding section is intended to apply only to
interests existing at the time of the trial, and is not intended to
prevent a new action to test the validity of rights acquired subse­
quently to the former trial. 
Sec. 968. The Oonrt in its discretion may grant a new trial on
the application of a party or those claiming under him, made at
any time within two years after the determination of the fsrmer 
trial.
Sec. 969. If the application for a new trial is made atter-~the 
close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, the party
obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite party ten days notice
thereof before the term at which the action stands for trial. 
Sec. 970. The result of such new trial (if granted after the
close of the term at which the first trial took place,) shall in no
case, affect the interest of third persons, acquired in good faith
for a reliable consideration, since the former trial. 
Sec. 971. But the party who, on such new trial shows himself
entitled to lands which have thus passed to a bona fide purchaser
may recover the proper amount of damages against the other
party either in the same or in a subsequent action. 
Sec. 972. The party who has been successful in such new trial
shall (if the case require it) have his writ of restitution to restore 
him hie property.
Sec. 973. In an action against a tenant the judgment shall be 
conclusive against the landlord who has received 'notice as here.
inbefore provided. 
Sec. 974. It' not notified, he shall be regarded as a defendant
who has not been served with the original notice, and shall be 
treated accordingly.
Sec. 975. The plaintifff must recover on the strength of his 
own title.
Sec. 976. The Court, on motion, and after notice to the oppo· 
site party may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party
applying therefore to enter upon the land in controversy and make
survey and admeasurement thereof for the purposes of the action. 
SEC. 977. The order must describe the property and a copy
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the oc­
cupancy and control of the land. 
Sec. 978. The verdict may specify the extent and quantity. of
the plaintifff's estate, and the premises to which he is entitled with
reasonable certainty by metes and bounds, and other sufficient de­ 
scription, according to the tacts as proved.
Sec. 979. A general verdict in favor of the plaintifff without 
such specifications, entitles the plaintifff to the quantity of interest
or estate, in the premises as set forth and described in the petition. 
Sec. 980. When the plaintifff in an action of this nature is en­
titled to damages for withholding or using, or injuring lit.is prope1·­
ty the defendant may set off the value of any permanent improve­
ments made thereon to the extent of such damages, unless ha pre­
fers to avail himself of the law for the benefit of occupying claim­ 
ants.
Sec. 981. In case of wanton aggression on the part of a de­ 
fendant the jury may award exemplary damages.
Sec. 982. A tenant in possession in good faith, under a lease 
or license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in arrear at
the time of suit brought for the recovery of the land, and that
which may afterwards, accrue during tho continuance of his pos­
session. 
Sec. 983. It the defendant arer that he has a crop sowed,
planted or growing on the premises, the jury finding for the plain­
tiff, and also finding that fact shall further find the value of the
premises from the date of the trial until the first day of January
next succeeding, and no execution for possession shall be issued
until that time, ii the defendant executes with surety to be a.p­
proved by the Clerk, a bond in double such sum to the plaintifff,
conditioned to pay at said date, the sum so assessed. This bond
shall be part of the record, and shall have the force and effect of
a judgment, and if not paid at maturity, the Clerk on the applica­
tion of the plaintifff shall issue execution thereon against all the
obligors. 
Sec. 984. The plaintifff may have judgment for the rent of the
possession which accrues after judgment, and before delivery of 
possession by motion in the District Court in which the judgment
was .rendered, ten days notice thereof in writing being given, un­ 
less judgment
is 
stayed by appeal, and bond given to suspend the 
judgment, in which case the motion may be made after the affirmance thereof: · 
Sec. 985. An action in the ~ature of that authorized in this Chapter, may also be brought by one having a reversionary interest,
or by one either in or out of possession, against another who claims title to real property, although the defendant may not be in the
possession thereof, for the purpose of determining and quieting the 
question of title. ',
Sec. 986. If the plaintifff is in possession, he may file a petition 
setting forth his estate, whether of inheritance for life or years, and
describing the premises, and averring that he is credibly jnformed 
and believes that the defendant makes some claim adverse to the
estate of the petitioner, and praying that he may be notified to
show cause why he should not bring an action to try the alleged title, it any, and thereupon the Court shall order notice to be given
to the defendant, and upon the return of such order of notice, duly
executed, if the defendant so notified shall make default, or having
appeared, shall disobey the lawful order of the Court to bring an 
action and try the title, the Court shall enter a judgment that he
be forever debarred and estopped from having or claiming any
right or title ad verse to the petitioner, and those claiming by or
through him, to the premises described. 
Sec. 987. It the defendant shall appear and disclaim all right
and title adverse to the petitioner, he shall recover his costs; if he
shall claim title, he shall, by answer, show cause why he should
not be required to bring an action and try such title, and the Court
shall make such judgment or order respecting the bringing and
prosecuting of such action, as may seem just. 
Sec. 988. In other particulars, the rules above prescribed shall,
in the cases in the last three sections contemplated, be observed as
far as they are applicable. 
Sec. 989. In an action for the recovery of dower before admeas­
urement, or by a tenant in common, or joint tenant of real proper­
ty against his co-tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition to his
evidence of right, that the defendant either denied the plaintifff's
right, or did some act amounting to such denial. 
CHAPTER XXXIX. 
' 
CHAPTER 117 - Oon:e:. 
Section 990 .........• J~028 
Section 991 2029 
Section 992 ...•....•.• 2030 
Section 993 2031 
Section 994 2032 
Section 995 9033 
Section 996 • • . . . . . •••• 2034 
Section 997 2035 
Section 998 2036 
Section 999 2037 
Section 1009 ......•..•• 2038 
Section 1001 . . . • . . . . . . 2039 
Section 1002 2040 
Section 1003 2041 
Section 1004 2042 
Section 1005 ...•...•... 2043 
Section 1006 ..........• 2044: 
Section 10G7 2045 
Section 1008 2046 
Section 1009 2041 
Section 1010 2048 
Section 1011 ...•.....•. 2049 
PARTITieN. 
CHAPTER XL. 
FOREOLOSURE OF MORTGAGES. 
OH.i.PTEB 118-0omi: AND AoT.
Sec. 1033. Any mortgage of personal property to secure the 
payment of money only, and where the time of payment is there­
in fixed, may be foreclosed by notice and sale, as hereinafter pro· 
vided; unless a stipulation to the contrary has been agreed upon
by the parties. 
Section 1012 2050 
Section 1013 2051 
Section 1014 ...•.•..... 2052 
Section 1015 2053 
Section 1016 2054 
Section 1017 . . . . . . . . . • 2055 
Section 1018 !056 
' Section 1019 2057' 
Section 1020 2058 
Section 1021 ~ 2059 
Section 1022 2060 
Section 1023 2061 
Section 1024 2062 
Section 1025 2063 
Section 1026 2064: 
Section 1027 2065 
Section 1028 2066 
Section 1029 2067 
Section 1030 . . . . . .•.. 2068 
Section 1031 2069 
Section 1032 2070 
Sec. 1035. Such notice must be served on the mortgagor, and
upon all persons having recorded liens upon the same property, 
which are junior to the mortgage, or they will not be bound by
the proceedings. 
Section 1036 ....•••.... 2074 J Section 1088 2076
Section 1037 2075 
Sec. 1039. The sheriff conducting the sale, shall execute to the
purchaser a bill of sale of the personal property, which shall be 
effectual to carry the whole, title and interest purchased.
SEC. 1041. Such affidavits shall be attached to the bill of sale, 
and shall then be receivable in evidence, to prove the facts they
state. 
Sec. 1044. The holder of any mortgage of real estate, must 
proceed by civil action, in the District Court, when he wishes to
foreclose the same. 
Section 1045 2084
Section 104.6 2085
Section 1047 2086
Section 104:8 • • .. • •••••• 2087
Section 1049 .....•..... 2088 
Section 1050 ...•...•... 2089
Section 1051 2090 
OHAPTER XLI. 
ABBITRATIONS ..
0.HAPTEB 119 - CODE. 
Section 1059 2098
Section 1060 2099
Section 1061 2100
Section 1062 2101 ·
Section 1068 •.......... 2102
Section 1064 ....•...... 2108
Section 1065 . . . . . . . . .. 2104
Section 1066 · 2105
Section 1067 2106 
Section 1052 •......•... 2091
Section 1053 ....••.•... 2092
Section 1054 ...••..•.•. 2093
Section 1155 •...•...... 2094
Section 1056 •.....•.... 2095
Section 1057 •....•..... 2096
Section 1058 2097 
Section 1068 2107
Section 1069 2108 
Section ·1070 . . . .. 2109
Section 1011 .••........ 211'0 
Section 1072 2111
Section 1073 ••.. · 2112 
Beetien 1074 2113
Section 1075 2114: 
Section 1076 2115 
CHAPTER LXII. 
AOTIONS AG.A.INST BOATS AND RAFTS. 
CHAPTER 120- Oona AND AoT. 
Sect!on 1077 2116 I Sect!on 1080 2119
Section 1078 ; 2117 Section 1081 2120 
Section 1079 . . . . . . . . .. 2118
Sec. 1082. Any raft found in the waters of this State, shall be 
liable for all debts contracted by the owner, agent, clerk, or pilot
thereof, on account of work done, or services rendered for such 
raft.
Sec. 1013. Claims growing out of either of the above causes, 
shall be liens upon the raft, its tackle, and appendages, for the
term of twenty days from the time the right of action therefore
accrued, 
Sec. 1084. The same rules shall govern, and the same process
shall be had, to enforce the lien, that is prescribed for similar liens
against boats. 
Sec. 1086. And the warrant may be issued on Sunday, if the 
plaintifff, his agent or attorney shall state in· his petition and swear
thereto that if 'would be unsafe to delay proceedings till Monday. 
Sec. 1088. Any constable or marshal of any corporated town, 
may serve and execute the warrant, provided for in said section,
whether the same issue from the office of the clerk of the District
Court, or of a justice. 
Section 1089 2123 \
Section 1090 2124 
Sec. 1092. The officer may sell any of the furniture or appen­
dages of the boat, if by so doing he can satisfy the demand. If 
he sell the boat itself, he must sell it to the bidder who will ad­
vance the amount required to satisfy the execution, for the lowest 
fractional share of ·the boat, unless the person appearing for the
boat, desire a diffe~ent and. equally convenient mode of sale. 
Section 1093 ..•........ 2127 I Seetion 1095 2129
Section 1094 2128 
1 
Section 1091 2125· 
Section 1096 2130 
CHAPTER XLIII. 
N\TISANOE, WASTE, AND TRESPASS.
CHAPTER 121- CODE. 
Section 1097 2131
Section 1098 2132
Section 1099 2133
Section 1100 2184
Section 1101 · 2135
Section 1102 2136
Section 1103 2137 
CHAPTER XLIV. 
OFFICIAL SECURITIES AND J'.INES, ETC.
CHAPTtm 122 - CODE. 
Section 1111 2145 I Section 1114 2149
Section 1112 2147 I Section 1115 2150 
Section 1113 2148 
Section 1104 2138
Section 1105 2139
Section 1106 2140
Section 1107 2141
Section 1108 2142
Section 1109 2143
Section 1110 2144 
CHAPTER XLV. 
INFORMATIONS. 
/ 
CHAPTER 123-ConE AND ACT. 
Section 1116 2151 I Section 1118 .. 2153
Section 1117 2152 
Sec. 1119. If the District Attornet, on demand, neglect or re­
fuse to file an information, any citizen of this State claiming any
public office which is usurped or unlawfully exercised by another,
may do so, and he may prosecute the same in his own name, to
final judgment in all other respects as provided herein. 
Section 1120 2154 Section 1126 2160
Section 1121 2155 Section 1127 2161
Section 1122 2156 Section 1128 2162
Section 1123 2157 Section 1129 2163
Section 1124 2158 Section 1130 2164
Section 1125 !159 Section 1131 ••..••••••• 2165 
OHAPTER XLVI. 
soraa FAOIAS~ 
Cons 124-NBARLY. 
Sec. 1142. Where a Scire Facias is allowed by law, it shall be
commenced by petition and notice filed and served as in other
civil actions. 
Sec. 1143. The petition must be sworn to by the plaintifff in
the proceeding, his agent or attorney, and must state that the
judgment has not been satisfied, to his knowledge, information or 
belief, and must specify the amount due thereon.
Sec. 1144. The answer of the defendant must also be under 
oath, and the issue joined, if any, shall be tried in the usual man­
ner. 
CHAPTER XL VII. 
A.OTION OF :MANDAMUS. 
Sec. 1145. The writ of mandamus is an order of a Court of
competent jurisdiction, and issues from the District Court eem­
mending an inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to do
or not ·ie do, an act, the performance or omission of which the law 
speciallj enjoins as a duty, resulting from an office trust or station,
and it is granted on the petition of any private party aggrieved
without the concurrence of the prosecutor for the State, or on the
petition of the State by the District Attorney, when the public
interest is· concerned, and is in the name of such private party, or 
of the State as the case may be in fact brought.
Sec. 1146. The plaintifff in such action shall state hie claim, 
and shall also state tsete sufficient to constitute a cause for such 
claim, and shall also set forth that the plaintifff', if a private indi­
vidual, is personally interested therein, and that he sustains and
may sustain damage by the non-performance of such duty, and
that performance thereof has been demanded by him, and refused
or neglected, and shall pray a writ of mandamus commanding the
defendant to fulfil such duty. 
Sec. 1147. Where a discretion is left to an inferior trihnnal,
the writ of mandamus can only compel it to act. It cannot con­
trol the discretion of the inferior tribunal. 
Sec. 1148. The writ .may also be isaned by the Supreme Oourt
to any District Oourt, if necessary, and also in any other case
where it is found necessary, to enable it to exercise its legitimate
power. 
Sec. 149. It ought not to be issued in any case where there
is a plain, speedy and adequate remedy, in the ordinary course ot
the law, except as herein provided. 
Sec. 1150. The pleadings and other proceedings in any action
in which a mandamus is claimed shall be the same in all respects
as nearly as may be, and cests shall be recoverable by either party,
as in an ordinary action for the recovery of damages. 
Sec. 1151. The plaintifff in any action except those of chap­
ters 36, 87 and 38, hereof, may also in aid of such cause of action
pray, and have a writ of mandamus to compel' the performance of
a duty established in such action. But if such duty, the perform·
aace of which is sought to be compelled, is not one resu1ti•g from
an office, trust, or station, it must be one for the breach ot which
a legal right to damages is already eomplete · at the commence­
ment of the action, and must also be a duty of which a Oourt of
equity woald enforce the performance. 
Sec. 1152. In case judgment be giten to the plaintifff that a
mandamus do issue, it shall be lawful for the Oonrt in which such
jsdgment is given, if it shall see fit, besides issuing execution in 
the ordinary way for the damages and costs, also to issue a per­
emptory writ of mandamus to the defendant commanding him
forthwith to perform the duty to be enforced. 
Sec. 1153. The writ shall simply command the performance
of the duty, shall be· directed to the party and »ot to the Sheriff,
and may be issued in term or vacation and returnable forthwith,
and no return except t.hat of compliance. shall be allowed, but time 
to return it may upon snfficient grounds be allowed by tpe Court
or Judge, either with or without terms. 
Sec. 1154. The Court may, upon application of the plaintifff,
besides, or instead of proceeding against the defendant ·by attach·
ment, direct that the act required to be done, may be done by the
plaintifff, or some other person appointed by the Court, at the ex· 
pense of the defendant; and upon the act being done the amount
of such expense, may be ascertained, by the Court, or by a refer­
ence appointed by the Court, as the Court or Judge may order,
and the Court may render. judgment for the amount of such ex­
penses and costs, and enforce payment thereof by execution. 
Sec. 1155. During the pendeney of the action the Court or
Judge in vacation may make temporary orders for preventing 
damage or injury to the plaintifff' until the cause is decided.
Sec. 1156. When the State is a party the Attorney may ap­ 
peal without security. 
CHAPTER XL VIII. 
INJUNCTION. 
CHAPTER 126-0onE. 
Section 1157 2189 I Section 1167 2199
" :»158 2190 ,, 1168 2200 
" 1159 2191 " 1169 2201
" 1160 2192 I " 1170 2202 
" 1161. 2193 " 1171. .. . . .. . .. 2203
" 1162 2194 I " 1172 2204 
" .1163 2195 " 1173 2205
" 1164 2196 " 1174 2206
" 1165 2197 I " 1175 2207 
" 1166 2198 j ,. 1176 2208
Sec. 1177. Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction 
upon the whole case, shall be allowed.
Sec. 1178. Upon the dissolution in whole or in part, of an in­ 
junction to stay proceedings upon a judgment or final order, the
damages shall be assessed by the Court which may hear the evi­ 
dence and decide in a summary way, or may, on the request of
either party, cause a jury to be empaneled to find the damages.
Where money is enjoined, the damages may be any rate per cent 
on the amount released by the dissolution, which, in the discretion
of the Court, may be proper, not exceeding ten per cent. And
where the delivery of property has been delayed by the injunction,
the value of the use, hire, or rent thereof, shall be assessed. J udg­
ment shall be rendered against the party who obtained the injunc­
tion, for the damages assessed, and against the surety of such party. 
Section 1179 2210 I Section 1181. 1212 
" 1180 2211 
PROHIBITION IN AN ACTION BY 01ir.DINARY PROOEEDUTGS. 
Sec. 1181. In all cases of breach of contract or other injury,
where the party injured is entitled to maintain, and has brought
an action by ordinary proceedings, he may, in the same cause, pray
and have a writ of injunction against the repetition or continuance 
of such breach of contract or other injury, or the committal of any
breach of contract or injury of a like kind, arising out of the same
contract, or relating to the same property or right, and he may
also, in the same action, include a claim for damages or other
redress. _ .. 
Sec. 1183. In such action, judgment may be given for other
relief, and also that the writ of injunction do or do not issue, as 
justice may require; and in case of disobedience, such writ of in­
junction may be enforced by attachment by the Court, or when
such Court shall not be sitting, by a Judge thereof. 
Sec. 1184. It shall be lawful for the plaintifff, at any time after
the commencement of the action, and whether before or after judg­
ment, to apply ex parte to the Court or a Judge, for a writ of in­
junction to restrain the defendant in such action from a repetition
or continuance of the wro~gfnl act, or breach of contract complained
of, or the committal of any breach of contract or injury of a like
kind, arising out of the same contract, or relating to the same prop­ 
erty or right; and such writ may be grantei or denied by the
Court or Judge, upon such terms as to the duration of the writ,
keeping an account, giving security, or otherwise, aa to such Court
or J udze shall seem reasonable and just, and in case of disobedi­
ence, such writ may be enforced by attachment by the Court, or, 
when such Court shall net be sitting, by the Judge thereof; provi­
ded always, that any order tor a writ of injunction, made by a 
Judge, OJ," any writ issued by virtue thereof, may be discharged or
varied, or set aside by the Court, on application made thereto by
any party dissatisfied with such order, 
Sec. 1234. Within the prescribed limit, it extends to all civil
cases (except cases by equitable proceedings, and cases where the
question of title to any real estate may arise,) where the amount in
controversy does not exceed one huadred dollars; and by consent
of parties, it may be extended to any amount not exceeding three 
hundred dollars.
Section 1235 2263 I Section 1236 · 2264 
Sec. 1287. Actions ef replevin and suits commenced by attach­
ment, may be commenced in any county and township wherei• any
portion of the property is found, and justices shall have jurisdiction
therein, within the county.
Section 1238 .....••.... 2266 
" 123g . . . . . . • • . .. 2267
" 1240 ~ .. , .2268
" 1241. . . . . . • • . . . 2269 
" 1242 2270
., 1248 2271 
" 1244 2272
" 1245 .....•..... 2278
" 1246 227 4 
,, 1247 2275
" 124:8 ...•..•.•.. 2276 
Section 
" 
" 
,, 
"
"
"
" 
" 
1249 2277
1250 2278
1251 .......•.•. 2279
1252 ......•.... 2280
1253 ..••..•.... 2281
1234 ....••.•... 2282
1255 .......•... 2283
1256 ....•...... 2284
1i57 ....••..... 2285
1258 2286 
SEC. 1259. Either party, before the trial is commenced, may
have a change of venue, upon filing an affidavit that the justice is
prejudiced against him, or is of near relation to the other party, is
a material witness for the affiant, or that the affiant cannot obtain
justice before him. 
Sec. 1260. When saicl change of venue is allowed, said justice
shall transmit all the original papers in said case, and a transcript 
of his proceedings, to the next nearest justice in the township, if 
there be any, if not, to the next nearest justice in his county, which
said justice shall proceed to try said case, and if he cannot try the
same immediately, he shall then fix a time therefore, of which all
parties shall take notice. 
Section 1284 2311
Section 1285 2312
Section 1286 2313
Section 1287 2314
Section 1288 2315
Section 1289 2316
Section 1290 2317
Section 1291 2318 
Sec. 1323. The basis of the proceeding is an affidavit filed in
the office of the clerk setting forth the errors complained of. Writ
of error must be taken in the same time, and the notice must be 
the same as in case'ot appeal. 
Section 1324 2351
Section 1325 2352
Section 1326 2353
Section 1327 2354
Section 1828 ...•......• 2355 
Section 1315 2342
Section 1316 2343
Section 1317 . .. . . . . . .. 2344
Section 1318 2345
Section 1319 2346
Section 1320 2347
Section 1321 .....••.... 2348
Section 1822 234:9 
Section 1329 2356
Section 1330 2357
Section 1331 •.......... 2358
Section 1332 2860
Section 1333 2361 
Sec. 1334. When a writ of attachment, or of replevin, has been
issued by any justice et the peace, in any action, and it shall be 
found that the defendant is absent, so that personal notice or ser­
vice of process cannot be had, it shall be the duty of the justice, 
upon the return day, unless the defendant appear, to make an order
fixing the day for the trial, not less than sixty days thereafter, and
requiring notice to be given by any constable, as provided in the
next section. 
Sec. 1335. Upon such order being made, at least sixty days
notice of the pendency of such action, shall be given by posting
up written or printed notices in three public places in the town­
ship where the action was commenced, and such notices shall have
the effect ot a service, by publication in the District Court, and
the Justice shall proceed to hear the cause upon the day specified
tbr that purpose, but no bond shall be required of the plaintifff
after judgment as may be in the District Court. 
Section 1336 2362 I Section 134:3 2369
Section 1337 2363 Section 1344 2370 
Section 1338 2364 Section 1345 ' .. 2371
Section 1339 2365 I Section 1346 . . . . . . . 2372 
Section 1340 2366 Section 1347 2373
Section 1341 2367 I Section 1348_ 2374
Section 1842 2368 
Sec. 1349. An appeal or writ of error, taken in the usual way,
if the proper security is given, suspends the execution tor costs,
and may with the consent of the plaintifff prevent the warrant of
removal from being executed, but net otherwise. 
Section 1350 2376 I Section 1354 ..........• 2380
Section 1351 . . . 2377 Section 1355 2381 
Section 1352 2378 Section 1356 2382
Section· 1353 .. : 2379 I 
Sec. 1357. A justice may in writing, specially depute any dis­
creet person of suitable age to perform any particular duty proper­
ly devolving upon a constable. Such person has the powers of a
constable for that particular purpose, and is subject to the same
obligations and shall receive the same fees. 
SEC. 1364.
stand the obligation of an oath, is a cempetent witness in all cases
both civil and criminal, except 88 herein otherwise declared. 
Sec. 1364. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter, 
or of any inquiry arising in any action or other proceeding in any 
Oours of justice, or before any person, haTing by law or by consent
of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence, no
person shall be disqualified, by reason of his interest in the same,
or in the event of the same whether such interest be 88 a party
thereto or otherwise. But the party or parties thereto, and the
person in whose behalf such action or other proceeding may be
brought or defended shall, except as hereinafter excepted, be com­
petent and compellable to give evidence, either viva voce or ay
deposition, according to the practice of the Court, on behalf of
himself, or either or any of the parties to the issue, action or pro­ 
ceeding.
Sec. 1365. But nothing herein contained shall render any per­ 
son who in any criminal proceeding is charged with the commis­
sion of any public offense, competent or compellable to give evi­
dence therein, for or against himself. 
Sec. 1361. No person shall be allowed to testify under the pro­
Tision of section 1364, where the adverse party is the executor of
a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired before
the death of such deceased person, and nothing in such section
contained shall in any manner affect the laws now existing in re­
lation to the settlement of estates of deceased persons, infants, or
persons of unsound miad-or the attestation of any instrument
required to be attested. 
Sec. 1367. The husband or wife shall in no case be a witness
for er against the other, except in a criminal proceeding for a crime
committed by one against the other, or in a civil action or pro­
ceeding one against tke other, but they may in all criminal pros· 
ecutions be witnesses for each other. 
I 
Sec. 1376. The general moral character of a witness may be
proved for the purposes of testing his credibility. 
Section 1377 !399 I Section 1387. . . . . . . . . .. 1228
" 1378 2400 " 1188 1229 
" 1879 2401 " 1389 1230
" 1380 2402 I " 1890 24:08 
" 1381 24:03 " 1391 24:09
" 1382 24:04: I " 1392 2410 
" 1383 2405 " 1393 2411
" 1384 2406 I " 1394 2412 
" 1385 2407 " 1396 2413 
" 1386 ...•..••••.. 1227 1 , 
SEC. 1396. The usual protest of a notary public without proof
of his signature, or notarial seal, is prima facie evidence of what 
it recites concerning the dishonor and notice of a bill of exchange
or promissory note. 
Sec. 1397. The clerks of the several Courts shall, on applica­
tion of any person having a cause or any matter pending in Court,
issue a subpceaa for witnesses under the seal of the Court inserting
all the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, which
may be served by the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the
county, or by the party or any other person. When a snbpcena is
not served by the sheriff, coroner, or constable, proof of service
shall be shown by affidavit; but no costs of serving the same shall
be allowed, except when served by an officer. 
Sec. 1398. The subpoena shall be directed to the person therein
named, requiring him to attend at a particular time or place, to 
testify as a witness, and it may contain a clause, directing the "\fit­
ness to bring with him any book, writing or other thing under
his control, which he is bound by law to produce as evidence. . 
Section 1399 2416 I Section 1402 ....•....... 2419
" 14:00 2417 " 1403 2420
" 1401. . . . . . . . . 2418 
Sec. 1404. A person confined in any prison in this State, may,
by order of any Court of record, be required· to be produced for
oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned, and in a
criminal case in any county in this State; but in all other cases his 
examination must be by a deposition.
Sec. 1415. An affidavit is a written declaration under oath,
made without notice to the adverse party. 
Sec. 14i6. In every affidavit made the names of the several
persons making such affidavit, shall be written in the jurat. 
Sec. 1417. When any affidavit is sworn by any person who
from his signature appears to be illiterate, or a foreigner imper­
fectly acquainted with the English language, the officer taking
such affidavit shall certify in the jurat, that the affidavit was read
in his presence to the party making the same, and that such
party seemed to understand the same, and that jhe said party
wrote bis mark or signature, in the presence of the officer taking
such affidavit. 
Sec. 1418. All facts authenticated by an oath, should be at­
tended by the assurance of knowledge, or at least by a belief, and
to that end if the facts are stated in a positive manner, the oath
may be that the affiant believes them, but it' the facts or any of
them, are stated not positively, but as a belief, then the oath must
not be of a belief, but of the truth of them, and no swearing to a
belief of a belief shall be a sufficient oath. 
Sec. 1419. Every affidavit shall be drawn up in the first per­
son, and the aftiant shall sign his name immediately below the
the matter sworn to. 
Sec. 1420. An affidavit may be made within this State before
any person authorized to administer oaths. 
Sec. 1433. It shall be the duty of the recorder, in each of the
several counties in this State, to cause to be procured a book, en­
titled "Copies oi Original Entries," to be kept as a record, in his
office, in which shall be copied a list of the original entries of
lands within his county, with name of the person or persons enter­
ing the same, and the date of such entry, for which he shall re­
ceive a reasonable compensation, to be audited and allowed by the
county judge of his county. · 
Sec. 1434. Said book, containing a copy of such entries, when
compared with the originals, and certified to as true copies by the
register of the land office at which such original entries were
made, shall be deemed a matter of record, and certified copies 
thereof, under the hand of said recorder, may be received and
read in evidence in all the Courts in this State, with like effect as 
other certified copies of original papers recorded in his office.
Sec. 1435. Said recorder shall from time to time, - as he may 
deem it necessary, procure in some manner, copies of any addi­
tional entries under the same restrictions, and with like effect,
until all the lands in his county shall have been entered, and
certified copies of the en tries thereof procured. 
Sec. 1437. Copies of all maps, official letters, and other doeu­
ments in the office of the surveyor general of this State, when cer­
tified to by that officer according to law, shall be received by the
Courts of this State, as prima f acie evidence of the existence of
the originals; and that said copies are copies of the original, not­ 
withstanding such maps, official letters, &c., may themselves be
copied.
Section 1438 243! I Section 1~39 ~ , ~ 2435
Sec. 1440. The certificate ot the regi~~r ~ 
0re'c;iv~r
of any 
land office of the United States, as to th? !~tr_y <,f la'fduwithin his
district, shall be prilma f acie evidence of the person entering, to 
the real estate therein named.
Sec. 1441. In the cases contemplated in the last seven sec­ 
tions, the signature of the officer shall be presumed to be genuine,
until the contrary is shown. 
Sec. 1450. After the commencement of a civil action, or other
civil proceeding, if a witness resides within this State, but in a 
different county from the place of trial, or is about to go beyond
the reach of a subpeena, or is for any other cause expected to be
unable to attend Court at the time of trial, the party wishing his 
testimony, may, whenever he judges it expedient,. take his deposi­
tion in writing, before any person having authority to administer 
oaths; and it the action is by equitable proceedings, and no con­
sent has been entered into to try the same by the second method 
of trying equitable actions, then without any other reason therefor, either party may so take the deposition ot any witness. · 
Sec. 1451. Reasonable notice of the name of the witness, and
of the time and place when and where the same will be taken,
must be given to the opposite party. 
Sec. 1452. If the case is in the District Court, the deposition
of a witness, residing out of the county, whether within or with­
out the State, may be taken before one or more commissioners on 
written interrogatories.
Sec. 1454. The clerk or any j adge of any court of record, or 
any commissioner appointed by the Governor of this State to take
acknowledgments of deeds in another State, or any notary public, 
or any consul of the United States may be selected and appointed
by the party such commissioner, either by the name of office of
such officer, or by his individual name and official style, and the
name of the Court of which such constituted commissioner is clerk
or judge, an{Ul(e name of the State and county, or if without the
United St-8tes .. a'1d _ c;nada, the name of the State and town, or 
city in wlifoh..'"'suchc C()lll0rrti.ssioner of deeds, notaries, or csnsul re·
sides, must be stated. in tlie notice and in the commission issued. 
Section 1455 2450 I Section 1456 2451 
Sec. 1457. At or before the time thus fixed, the opposite par.
ty may file cross-interrogatories -if cross-interrogatories are not
filed, the clerk shall file the following : 
1. Are you directly or indirectly interested in this action 1 and 
if interested, explain the interest you have . 
.2. Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made from.
your-personal knowledge! and ifnot, do your answers show what 
are made from your personal knowledge, and what from informa­
tion, and the source of that information ~ if not, now show what is 
from information. and give its source.
3. State every thing yon know concerning the subject of this 
action, favorable to either party ..
Sec. 1458. The reasonable notice hereinbefore mentioned, is 
at least. when served on the attorney, or on the party within the
county ten days-if served on the party any where else, the rea­ 
sonable notice shall be that required under other similar circum­
stances, in the service of an original notice; and when depositions 
are to be taken in pursuance of the first of the above methods,
one day in addition must be allowed for every thirty miles travel 
from. the place where the notice is served, to that where the depo­
sitions are to be taken, 
Sec. 1459. The notice or notice and copy ot interrogatories
may be served by the same persons, on the same persons, in the 
same manner, and may be returned and the return shall be au­
thenticated in the same way as should be an original notice in the
same cause, when served other than by publication. 
Sec. 1460. It may also be served personally on any attorney
of the adverse party or record in the cause. 
Sec. 1461. Whenever the adverse party has been notified by
publication only, and has not appeared, he shall be deemed served
with the notice or the notice and interrogatories, by the filing of
the same with the clerk in the cause. 
Se~ 1462 2454
SEC. 1463. The Oommission issues in the name of the Oonrt 
and under its seal. It must be signed by the Olerk, and need
contain nothing bnt the authority conferred upon the Oommis­
sioner, and instructions to guide him, a statement of the cause in
which the testimony is to be used, and a copy of the interroga­
tories on each side appended. 
Section 14:64 2456 I Section 1466 24:oi 
Section 1465 2457
SEC. 1467. Where a deposition is taken upon interrogatories, 
neither party, nor his agent or attorney, shall be present at the
examination ot a witness, unless both parties are present, or rep­
resented by an agent or attorney, and the certificate shall state
such fact, if party or agent is present. 
Sec. 1469. The depositions when returned by mail, must be 
directed to the Clerk of the Court. They should state on the
outside of the envelope the title of the cause in which they are
to be used. ·
Section 1470 2461 I Section 1472 .....••.... 2463 
Section 14 71. 2-i62
Sec. 1473. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing, speei­ 
fying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers in the 
ea use.
SEC. 1474. No exception other than for incompetency or ir­ 
relevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the com­ 
mencement of the trial.
Sec. 1475. The Court shall, on motion of either party, hear 
and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, be·
fore the commencement of the trial. 
Sec. 1476. Errors of the Court in its decision upon exception
to depositions, are waived, unless excepted to.
Section 1477 2465 I Section 1478 2466· 
PERPETUATING TESTIMONY. 
Sec. 1479. The testimony vf a witness may be perpetuated in
the following manner: 
Sec. 1480. The applicant shall file in the office of the Clerk
of the District Court, a petition to be verified, in which shall be­
set forth, specially, the subject matter, relative to which testimony 
is to be taken, and the names of the persons Interested, if known
to the applicant; and if not known, such general description, as 
be can give of such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or other­
wise. The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses t.o
be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to ea.ch
that the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a Court of.
this State, in which such testimony will, as he believes, be mate?
rial, and the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement
of the action, where the applicant expects to be the plaintifff'. 
Sec. 1481. The Court or the Judge thereof, may forthwith
make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The
order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination ; how
long the parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the man. 
ner in which they shall be notified. 
Sec. 1482. When it appears satisfactorily to the Court or Judge,
that the parties interested cannot be personally notified, such
Court or Judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the
petition and prepare and file cross interrogatories to those con­
tained therein. The witnesses shall be examined upon the inter­
rogatories of the applicant, and upon cross interrogatories, where 
they are required to be prepared, and no others shall be propounded
to them; nor shall any statement be received, which is not respon­
sive to some one of them. The attorney filing the cross interrog­
atories, shall be allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in
the bill of costs. 
Sec. 1483. Such depositions shall be taken before some one
authorized· by law to take depositions, or before some one special­ 
ly authorized by the Court or Judge, and shall be returned to the
Clerk's office of the Court, in which the petition was filed. 
Sec. 1484. The Court or Judge, if satisfied that the deposi­
tions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall ap­ 
prove tho same and order them to be filed ; and if a trial be had
between the parties named in the petition, or their privies or suc­
cessors in interest, such depositions, or certified copies thereof, 
may be given in evidence by either party, where the witnesses are
dead or insane, or where their attendance for oral examination
cannot be obtained, as required; but such depositions shall be
subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency,
as may bo made to depositions taken, pending an action. 
SEC. 1506. Unless the terms clear days are used, the mode
of computing time is by excluding the first day and including the 
last, and should the last day fall on Sunday, the length of time
prescribed shall be extended one day, so aa to include the whole of
the following Monday, _unless otherwise expressed. 
Sec. 1507. An action for the recovery of money in the meaning
of this Code, includes a11 action for the recovery of damages, as 
well as of money due by contract.
Sec. 1508. The word '' Clerk " means the Clerk ot the Court 
in which the action is brought or is pending, or in which the pro- ·
ceeding is had; and the words "Olerk's office," mean his office. 
Sec. 1508a. Degrees of affinity in this act, shall be computed by
the civil law. 
Sec. 1509. The ministerial officer whose duty it is to take a
surety in any bond provided for by this Code, shall have the right
to require the person offered as surety to make affidavit of his
qualification, which affidavit may be made betore such officer. The
taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any
liability to which he might otherwise be subject, for taking insuffi­
cient security. 
Sec. 1110. The surety in every bond provided for by this Code,
must be a resident of this State, and worth double the sum to be
secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property liable
to execution in this State equal to the sum to be secured. Where
there are two or. more sureties in the same bond, they must, in the
aggregate, have the qualification prescribed in this section. 
Sec. 1511. No action to obtain a discovery shall be brought,
except, that where any person or corporation is liable, either
jointly or severally with others, by the same contract, ah action 
may be brought against any of the parties who are liable, to obtain 
discovery of the names and residences of the dtJaere who are lia9le.
In such action, the plaintifff shall state hi his petition, in ~ect, that
he has used dne diligence, withont sueeese, to obtain the informa­
tion asked to be discovered, and that he does not believe the par­
ties to the contract, who are known to him, have property sufficient
to satisfy his claim. The petition shall be verified as other peti· 
tions, and the cost of such action shall be paid by the plaintifff,
unless the discovery be resisted. 
Sec. 1512. Successive actions may be maintained upon the
same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action, a 
new cause of action has arisen therefrom. 
Sec. 1513. In an action where an attachment has been granted,
the execution by or for a defendant, of a bond whereby the attach­ 
ment ~ discharged, or the possession of the atteehed property is
obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance of such
defendant in the action. · 
Sec. 1514. In an action against a boat or raft, the execution by
or for the defendant of a bond whereby the attachment is dis­ 
charged, or the posseesioa of the boat or raft is obtained or retaiaed
by him, shall be an appearanoe of such owner as a defendant in 
the action. 
CHAPTER L VI. 
COMPENSATION OF OFJ'IOERS. 
CHAPTER 136-Coi>E. 
Section 1515 2522.
Sec. 1516. Any officer legally called upon to perform the fol­ 
lowing services, is entitled to the following compensation:
For drawing and certifying an affidavit, or for giving acer­ 
titi.cate not attached to any other paper or document.
For fixing his official certificate to any other paper, whether
the certificate be under seal or not
For making out a copy or transcript of any public papers or
records under his control, for the use of a private individual or 
company, or recording articles of incorporation, ten cents for every
one hundred words. 
The Olerk of any Court shall allow any person interested therein
to copy any papers or records in his office, and to make a· trans­ 
cript of any cause, and shall read over and compare and duly cer­
tify the same, and shall have therefore besides the fee of such cer­ 
tificate, one cent for each one hundred words or parts thereof.
Sec. 1518. The Clerk of the Supreme Court may take the
following fees as his whole compensation, and where they are pay- 
' able by a party to a suit, they may (except 'in criminal cases.) he
required in advance. If not so paid in advance, the Olerk may,
at any time after judgment, issue a teo bill which shall have the
force of a special execution against the party adjudged to pay 
costs:
Upon filing each appeal, t f3.00
Upon entering each judgment where the causehas been de- 
cided upon its merits, $2~00
Upon each continuance of a case, $1.00
Upon issuing each execution, $1.25
Entering satisfaction of judgment,.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 
· Upon issuing each writ, rule or order, to be served upon
any person not in Oourt,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
For copying an opinion to be transmitted to the District Court
in case of a reversal of judgment, ten .cents for every one hundred 
words, to be paid by the party against whom costs are adjudged.
Ile shall be allowed the sum of eight cents per hundred words tor
recording the opinion of said Court, to be paid by the State.
Sec. 1520. The Clerk of the District Court must, in addition
to the fees elsewhere authorized, charge and collect the following: 
On filing of an appeal or the commencement of an original
suit,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $2.50 
Additional amount on issuing an attachment, !2.00 
On entering a judgment by confession in a case not pending
in Court, in all, 13.00 
If the case is already pending, in addition to the first charge
at the commencement of the suit,. . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.00 
On the submission of a cause without action; $2.50
On entering judgment when not by confession, or on a final 
adjudication, including many judgments, $2.50
On entering a general continuance, 11.00 
On entering a special continuance at party's costs and judgment thereon, · .. i . . • . • • • . • • • • 12.50 
On issuing execution and entering return, 11.25
On entering satisfaction of judgment,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Sec. 1521. The above fees of the Clerk ot the District Court 
must be paid in advance, unless ample security is gi T"en to the ap­
proval of the Clerk, for the payment thereof, when the suit is de­ 
termined, but the bond in case of appeal, shall be held such secu­
rity, and all proceedings of the Court shall be entered of record
by the Clerk, whether he has taken such security or not. 
Sec. 1522. Where security is given as contemplated in the pre­
ceding section, if the money is not paid at the time stipulated, the 
security shall be treated as an authority to confess judgment for
the proper amount, and the Clerk must enter up judgment, either 
in term time or vacation, and issue execution thereon accordingly.
Section 1523 2530· j. Section 1525 2532 
Section 1524 2531 Section 1526 2533
Sec. 1527. The recorder of deeds must charge for re­ 
cording each premium note given to a Mutual Insurance
Company, containing less than fifty words, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
For each deed and mortgage containing less than four hundred words.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 
For every additional one hundred words or fraction thereof
in either case, 10
Section 1528 2535 I Section 1530 2537 
Section 1529 2536 I Section 1531. 2538
Sec. 1532. For a view of each body, and for taking and. 
returning inquest, $5.00
For a view of each body, and for examination without 
inquest, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $3. 00 
Each subpoena, warrant or venire,...................... 25 
. If or e~ch mile traveled to and returning from an esamination or inquest.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 
The above foes are to be paid from the county treasury where
they cannot be obtained from the estate of the deceased. 
For all other services, the same fees as are allowed to Sheriffs
in similar cases. 
Section 1533 2540 I Section 1536 2'543
Section 1534 2541 Section 1537 2544 
Section 1535 2542 
Sec. 1538. A juror tor each day's attendance, whether ae
grand or petit juror, · · 11.ffl 
Before Justices' of the Peace, $1.00
Traveling per mile, going and returning, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05 
Section 1539 2546 ' Section 154:3 2551
Section 1540 2548 Section 1544: 2552 
Sect!oa 1541 2549 I Section 1545 2553
Section 1542 2550 , · 
Sec. 1546. All fees allowed to the County Judge, Clerk, and
Recorder, whether in this chapter, or elsewhere, are to be deemed
a part .of the county revenue, and appropriated as provided by
law, but are to be paid in cash.
Section 1547 2555 
Section 1548 2557
Section 1549 2558
Section 1550 2559 
Section 1551 2560
Section 1552 2561
Section 1553 _j562 
Section 1554 2563 
CHAPTER LVII. 
A.PPLIOA..TIONS, RESTRICTIONS, AND QU.ALIJ'ICATIONS OF PART OJ' TBUt
AOT-TIKE W1IEN IT T .. UDtS Bll'FEOT, A.ND WHAT IT REPEALS. 
Sec. 1555. This act shall take effect on the first day of Septem­
ber, A. D. 1860. 
Sec. 1556. Actions and special proceedings, already eommenc­
ed, may be continued in aeeerdance with the law .heretofore in
force. 
Sec. 1557. The rules of proceeding prescribed for civil actions
by ordinary proceedings in the District Court, shall be followed in 
all proceedings of a special character, whether before the District
Court or any other tribunal, so far as applicable and not other­
wise regulated. 
Sec. 1558. The rules of proceeding prescribed in this act, for
the commencement and conduct of civil actions, by ordinary pro­
ceedings in the District Court, shall be followed in every particu­
lar, in all actions and in all proceedings of a special character, un­
less. it is declared that the same shall be prosecuted by equitable
proceedings, or unless in the provisions concerning such action or
special proceeding, it is expressly otherwise provided, and when· 
it is provided that any action or special proceeding shall be pro- 
secuted by equitable proceedings, the same shall not differ in the
mode of procedure from an action by ordinary proceedings, except
as such distinction may in this act be made, or may be in such
action or proceeding itself provided, and the general principles of
procedure herein enacted are applied and restricted as follows. 
Sec. 1559. In replevin there shall be no joinder of any but
another cause of replevin ; nor shall there be allowed any set-off, 
counterclaim, or cross-demand.
Sec. 1560. A money jadgmeut obtained in replevin for pro­ 
perty, which property was in whole or part. exempt from execu
tion, shall also be to the same extent exempt from execution to the
party obtaining it, and from all set-off or diminution, either by the 
party against whom the same is or by any other person, and
where the facts are so and the party desires it, the record shall
state the facts of such total or partial exemption ; and all the pro­
visions of this and the preceding section shall also obtain as to
an action of detinue. 
Sec. 1561. All actions for the recovery of real property shall
be by ordinary proceedings. There shall be no joinder, except a." 
therein contemplated, and of a like action. There shall be no set.
off, counterclaim, or cross-demand by ordinary proceedings, except
as provided therein. 
Sec. 1562. The action of partition shall be prosecuted by ordi­
nary proceedings. No joinder of any other cause shall be allowed
therewith. 
Sec. 1563. The action on a note together with a mortgage or
deed of trust, for foreclosure of the same, shall be by equitable· 
proceedings, and tried by the second method of trying equitable
actions. An action on the" bond or note alone, without regard 
therein to the mortgage or deed of trust, shall be by ordinary pro­
ceedings. 
Sec. 1564. To an information there shall be no joinder of any
other cause_ of action, nor any set-off, counterclaim, or cross-de­ 
mand. ..
Sec. 1565. When the action ot mandamus is by a private per­ 
son, there may be joined therewith the injunction of chapter 49,
and such joinder as is provided for in the action of mandamus and
no other; but there shall be no set-off, counterclaim, or cross-de­
mand, by ordinary proceedings and the action shall be by ordinary proceedings. · 
Sec. 1566. No verification shall be required in the answer or
reply in habeas corpas. 
Sec. 1567. The action for mechanic's lien shall be prosecuted
by ordinary proceedings, and therewith shall be no other cause of 
action joined.
Sec. 1568. An action for divorce shall be prosecuted by equit­ 
able proceedings of' the second method of trial of equitable actions,
and no cause of action, save for alimony, shall be joined therewith. 
Sec. 1569. Actions by sureties, and by occupying claimants,
and on a lost note or bond, shall be by ordinary proceedings. 
Sec. 1570. If a term has a meaning affixed to it by this act, it
shall be held to be used in such sense, except when the contrary is
expressed, but the use of a term herein, which has at common law
a technical meaning, shall not imply its use in such technical sense
when the same would be inconsistent with the general intent of
this act; for instance, the term " Count,'> shall not imply that the
proceeding wherein used is law, as contradistinguished from equity.
The words "defense," "abatement," &c., shall not imply the class
of rights and forms of procedure associated with the terms at com­
mon law, but such terms, and all other technical terms, shall be
intended to be used in a sense consistent with the spirit and declared
object of this Code. 
Sec. 1571. This act includes many sections of part third ot the
Code of Iowa of 1851; some of such sections, to save printing, are 
included herein by the numerical designation of' such sections, and
some are herein printed ill. full, and some are in part made a part 
hereof in only the modified form in which herein found. Now, it is
intended that that portion of part third of the Code atoresaid which
is incorporated into this act, either by being set out herein, or by 
numerical designation herein as aforesaid, together with what other
matter may he herein set out, shall be substituted for part third of
the Code of' Iowa of 1851, and to that end every portion of part 
third of the Code of Iowa of 1851, which is neither literally set
out herein nor as a section designated herein by the numerical
designation of such section, as such section is numbered in said
Code of' Iowa of 1851, is hereby repealed, and all parts of all acts 
which are within the purview of' this act, are also repealed, so that
this act shall be the sole law in civil pleadings and practice, and 
when this act is published, the sections of the Code aforesaid shall
be printed in full, each in that place now herein designated, by the 
number by which such section is now known in said Code, and
then all the sections ot this act shall be consecutively numbered,
beginning with the first, as section one, and the proper numbers
as herein indicated shall be also incorporated into those section! 
which refer to other sections, either of this act or of the Code
aforesaid. 
Sec. 460. It the jury are permitted to separate, either during
the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they must be ad­ 
vised by the Court, that it is the duty of each one of them not to 
converse with any other of them, or with any person, nor to suffer
himself to be addressed by any person on any subject of 
the trial, and that during the trial it is the duty of each one of them
to avoid, ns far as possible, forming any opinion thereon until the
cause is finally submitted to them. 
Sec. 906. Where appellant has no right, or no further right
o-f prosecuting the appeal, the appellee may move to dismiss tho
appeal, and it the grounds of the motion do not appear in the
record, or by a writing, purporting to have been signed by the 
appellant, and filed, they must be verified by affidavit.
Sec. 906. The appellee may by answer filed and verified by 
himself, agent or attorney, plead any facts which render the taking
ot the appeal improper, or destroy the appellant's right of farther
prosecuting the same, to which answer the appellant may file a 
reply, likewise verified by himself, his agent or attorney, and the
questions ot law or fact therein, shall be determined by the Court. 
Sec. 333. Every Conrt of this State shall take judicial notice
of the rules of any other Court thereof. 
Many of these sections were written on small slips, and in the
haste of dispatching them to the printer, the above four were omit· 
ted; their numbers indicate where they belong. 

