Sec. 1. There shall be in this Territory but one
form of Civil Action for the enforcement or protection
of private rights, and the redress or prevention of pri
vate wrongs, which shall be the same at law and in equity.
Sec. 2. In such action, the party complaining
6hall be known as the plaintifff, and the the adverse party
as the defendant.
Sec. 3. When a question of fact, not put in issue by
the pleadings, is to be tried by a jury, an order for the
trial may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the
question of fact to be tried ; and such order shall be
the only authority necessary for a trial.
Seo. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in this Act.
Sec. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action by the assignee shall be without preju
dice to any set-off or other defense, existing at the time
of, or before notice of the assignment ; but this section
shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill
of exchange, transferred in good faith, and upon good
consideration, before due.
Sec. 6. An Executor or Administrator, trmstee of
an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, may sue without joining with him the person or
persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this sec
tion, shall be construed to include a person with whom,
or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of
another.
Sec. 7. When a married woman is a party, her
husband shall be joined with her ; except that when
the action concerns her separate property, she may sue
alone ; when the action is between herself and her hus
band, she may sue or be sued alone.
Sec. 8. If a husband and wife are sued together,
the wife may defend for her own right.
Sec. 9. When an infant is a party, he shall appear
by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in
which the action is prosecuted, or by a Judge thereof,
or a Probate Judge.
Sec. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:
First—When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years ; or
if under that age, upon the application of a relative or
friend of the infant. Second—-When the infant is de
fendant, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the
age of fourteen years, and apply within ten days after
the service of the summons ; if he be under the age of
fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the applica
tion of any other party to the action, or of a relative or
friend of the infant.
Sec. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion
of Ins family, the mother, may maintain an action
for the injury or death of a child ; and a guardian for
the injury or death of his ward.
Sec. 12. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
may be joined as plaintifffs, except when otherwise pro
vided in this Act.
Sec. 13. Any person may bs made a defendant,
who has, or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse
to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a com
plete determination or settlement of the question in
volved therein.
Sec. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who
are united in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants,
but if the consent of any one who should have
been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof beiDg stated in
the complaint ; and when the question is one of a com
mon or general interest, of many persons, or when the
parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or de
fend for the benefit of all.
Sec. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same
obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of
exchange and promissory notes, and sureties ou the same
or separate instruments, may all, or any of them be in
cluded in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.
Sec. 16. An action shall not abate by the death, or
other disability of the party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, if the cause of action survive or con
tinue. In case of the death, or other disability, of a
party, the court, on motion, may allow the action to be
continued by or against his representative or successor in
interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the
action may be continued in the name of the original
party, or the court may allow the person to whom the
transfer is made to be substituted in the action.
Sec. 17. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights ; but when a complete determination of the con
troversy cannot be had without the presence of other
parties, the court shall order them to be brought in.
Sec. 18. Actions for the following causes shall betVie&
Jn the county in which the subject of tlie action, or
some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of
the court to change the place of trial, as provided in thisAct : First—For the recovery of real property, or of an
estate or interest therein, or for the determination, in
any form, of such right or interest or for injuries to real
property. Second—For the partition of real property.
Third—For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real pro
perty ; Provided, That when such real property is sit
uate partly in one county and partly in another, the
plaintifff may select either of said counties, and the county
so selected shall be the proper county for the trial of
any or all of such actions as are mentioned in the first,
second and third subdivisions of this section.
Sec. 19. Actions for the following causes shall be
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof
arose, subject to the like power of the court to change
the place of trial ; First—For the recovery of a penalty
or forfeiture imposed by statute ; except, that when it
is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river, or
other stream of water, situated in two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on
such lake, river, or other stream, and opposite the place
where the offense was committed. Second—Against a
public officer, or person especially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office,
or against a person who, by his command, or in his aid,
does anything touching the duties of such officer,
Sec. 20. In all other cases the action shall be tried
jn the county in which the defendants, or any of them,
may reside at the commencement of the action ; or, if
none of the defendants reside in this Territory ; or, if
residing in this Territory, the county in which they so
reside be unknown to the plaintifff, the same may be tried
in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his
complaint ; and if any defendant or defendants, may be
about to depart from the Territory, such action may be
tried in any county where either of the parties reside or
may bo found, or service be had ; subject, however, to
the power of the court to change the place of trial as
provided in this act.
Sec. 21. The court may on motion, change the place
of trial in the following cases : First—When the county
designated in the complaint is not the proper county.
Second- -When there is reason to believe that an impar
tial trial cannot be had therein. Third—When the con
venience of witnesses, and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change. Fourth— When, from any
cause, the Judge is disqualified from acting in the action.
CHAPTER THREE.
Manner of Commencing Actions.
Secrtoa 23. How commenced In certain courta.
23. Complaint, bow endorsed.
24. Form of numinous.
25. Answer, when to be made.
26. Notice to be inserted in summons.
27. Notice ot pendency of salt.
28. Summons, by whom served.
29. Summons, how served.
80. Service by publication.
31. Publication of snmmons.
32. Service when action Is against two or more defendants.
33. Proof of service.
35. Jurisdiction, when it attaches.
Sec. 22. Civil actions in the District Court, and the
Probate Courts, shall be commenced by the filing of a
complaint with the clerk of the court in which the action
is brought ; Provided, That after the filing of the com
plaint, a defendant in the action may appear, answer or
demur, whether the summons has been issued or not,
and such appearance, answer or demurrer, be deemed a
waiver of summons.
Sec. 23. 'The clerk shall indorse on the complaint
the day, month,. and year the same is filed; and, at any
time within one year after the filing of the same, the
plaintifff may have a summons issued. The summons
shall be signed by the clerk, and directed to the defend
ant, and be issued under the seal of the court.
Sec. 24. The summons shall state the parties to the
action, the court in which it is brought, the county in
which the complaint is filed, the cause and general na
ture of the action, and require the defendant to appear
and answer the complaint within the time mentioned in
the next section, after the service of the summons, ex
clusive of the day of service, or that judgment by
default will be taken against him, according to the
prayer of the complaint, briefly stating the 6um of money
or other relief demanded in the complaint ; and the cleric
shall also indorse on the summons, the names of the
plaintifff's attorneys.
Sec. 25. The time in which the summons shall require
the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as
follows : Flrd—If the defendant is served within the
county in which the action is brought, ten days. Second,
If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the
judicial district in which the action is brought, twenty
days. Third, In all other cases thirty days.
Sec. 26. There shall also be inserted m the summons
a notice, in substance as follows : Firift—In an
action arising on contract for the recovery only of money
or damages, that the plaintifff will take judgment for a
sum specified therein, if the defendant fail to answer
the complaint. Second—In other actions, that if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint, the plaintifff will
apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.
Sec. 27. In any action affecting real property, the
plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when affirma
tive relief is claimed in such answer, or at any time af
terward, may file with the recorder of the county in
which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency
of the action containing the names of the parties to, and
the object of the action, and a description of the property
in that county affected thereby ; and the defendants may
also, in such notice, state the nature and extent of the
relief claimed in the answer. From the time of filing
only, shall the pendency of the action or defense be con
structive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the
property affected thereby,
Sec. 28. The summons sliall be served by the
Sheriff of the county where the defendant is found, or
by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed by
him, or approved by a judge of the court in which the
action is brought, or by any male citizen of the United
States over twenty-one years of age who is competent to
be a witness on the trial of the action, except as herein
after provided ; a copy of the complaint, certified by the
clerk or by the attorney in the action, shall be served
with the summons. When the summons is served by the
sheriff or his deputy, it shall be returned with the cer
tificate or affidavit of the officer of its service, and of the
service of the copy of the complaint, to the office of the
clerk from which the summons issued, with the affidavit of
such person, of its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint. If there be more than one defendant in the
action, mid such defendant or a part of tliem reside
within the county, a copy of the complaint as to those
residing within the county need he served on only one of
the defendants residing within the county.
Sec. 29. The summons shall he served by deliver
ing a copy thereof, as follows:
First—If the suit he against a corporation, to the
president or other head of the corporation, secretary,
cashier or managing ageat thereof.
Secorid—If the suit be .against a foreign corporation,
or a non-resident joint stock company, or other non-resi
dent association doing business within the Territory, to
an agent, cashier or secretary thereof.
rl%! rd—If against a minor nnder the age of fourteen
years, to such minor personally, and also to his father,
rattier or guardian ; or if there be none within the Ter
ritory, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor or with whom he resides, or in whose service
he is employed.
Fourth—If against a person judicially declared to be
of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own af
fairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to
«uch guardian.
Fifth —In all other cases, to the defendant personally.
Sec. 30. When the person on whom the service ia
to be made, resides out of the Territory, or has departed
from the Territory, or cannot after due dilligence, be
found within the Territory, or conceals himself to avoid
the service of summons, and the fact shall appear by af
fidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge
thereof, or a probate judge, and it shall, in like manner,
appear that a cause of action exists against the defend
ant in respect to whom tlte service is to be made, or that
he is a necessary or proper party to the action, such
court or judge may grant .an order that the service be
made by publication of the summons.
■Sec. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be
made in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to
give notice to the person to be served, and for such
length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least,
once a week : Provided', That the publication against
a defendant being or residing either in the States of Cal
ifornia, Oregon or Nevada, or the Territories of Utah,
Arizona, Washington, Montana or New Mexico, shall
not be less than one month ; and against a defendant re
siding out of this Territory or absent therefrom, or out
of either of the said States or Territories specified herein
shall not be less than two months. In case of publication, where the residence of the non-resident or absent
defendant is known, the court or judge shall also direct
a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the post office, directed to the person to be
served at his place of residence or the nearest post office
thereto. When publication is ordered, personal service
of a copy of the summons and complaint out of the Ter
ritory shall be equivalent to publication, and deposit in
the post office. In . either case the service of the sum
mons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of the
time prescribed by the order of publication.
Sec. 32. When the action is against two or more
defendants, and the summons is served on one or more,
but not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:
First—If the action be against the defendants jointly
indebted upon a contract he may proceed against the de
fendant served, unless the court otherwise direct, and if
he recover judgement it may be entered against all the
defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all, and
the separate property of the defendant served ; or,
Second. If the action be against defendants severally
liable, he may proceed against the defendants served, in
the same manner as if they were the only defendants.
Sec. 33. Proof of the service of the summons shall
be as follows :
First If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the affi
davit or certificate of such sheriff or deputy ; or, Second,
If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or, Third,
In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same ; and an
affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the
post Joffice, if the same shall have been deposited ; or,
Fourth, The written admission of the defendant.
Sec. 34. In case of service otherwise than by pub
lication, the certificate or affidavit shall state* the time,
place, and manner of the service.
Sec. 35. From the time of the service of the sum
mons and copy of complaint in a civil action, the court
shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to
have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A vol
untary appearance of a defendant shall be equivalent to
personal service of the summons upon him.
Sec. 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations
•by the parties of their respective claims and defenses.
for the judgment of the court.
Sec. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions
and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings
shall be determiaed, shall be those prescribed in this act.
Sec. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the
plaintifff shall be the compUint, or demurrer to the de
fendants answer ; and the only pleadings on the part of
the defendant shall be the answer, or demurrer to the plain
tiffs' complaint. The demurrers of the parties and the
answer of the defendant shall be hied with the clerk, and
a copy thereof served upon the adverse party or his at
torney. Provided, That if the adverse party or his at
torney reside out of the county, the service may be
made by mail.
Sec. 39. The complaint shall contain ; First, the title
of the action specifying the name of the court and the
name of the county in which the action is brought, and
the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and de
fendant ; Second, A statement of the tacts constituting
the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language;
Third, A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims.
If the recovery of money, or damages be demanded, the
amount thereof shall be stated.
Sec. 40. The defendant may demur to the com
plaint within the time required in the summons to an
swer when it appeal's upon the face thereof, either : First
That the court has no "jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant, or the subject matter of the action; or, Se
cond, That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,
Third, That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause ; or Fourth-, That there
is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintifff or defend
ant ; or, Fifth, That several causes of action have been
improperly united ; or, Sixth, That the complaint does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action ;
or, Seventh, That the complaint is ambiguous, unintellig
ible, or uncertain.
Sec. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
ground upon which any objections to the complaint are
taken ; unless it do so, it may be disregarded.
Sec. 42. The defendant may demur to the whole
complaint, or to one or more of several causes of action
stated therein, and answer the residue, or may demur
and answer at the same time.
Sec. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of
the amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its
discretion, require the complaint as amended to be filed,
and a copy of the amendments shall be served upon
every defendant to be affected thereby, or upon his at
torney, if he has appeared by attorney ; the defendant
shall answer in such time as may be ordered by the
court, and judgment by default may be entered upon
failure to answer, as in other cases.
Sec. 44. When any of the matters enumerated
in section fifty, do not appear upon the face of the com
plaint, the objection may be taken by answer.
Seo. 45. If no such objection be taken, either bv de
murrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to Iiave
waived the same, excepting only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the com
plaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.
Sec. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain :
First, if the complaint be verified, a specific denial to
each allegation of the complaint controverted by the de
fendant, or a denial thereof, according to his informa
tion and belief ; if the complaint be not verified, then a
feneral denial to each of said allegations, but a general
enial shall only put in issue the material and express
allegations of the complaint. Second, A statement of
any new matter or counterclaim, constituting a defense,
in ordinary and concise language.
Sec. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section, shall be one existing in favor of the defendant,
and against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one
of the following causes of action : First, A cause of ac
tion arising out of the transaction set forth in the com
plaint or answer, as the foundation of the plaintifffs'
claim, or defendants' defense, connected with the sub
ject of the action: Second, In an action arisiiig upon
contract, any other cause of action arising also upon con
tract, and existing at the commencement of the actiontion.
Sec. 48. When cross-demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances, that if one had
brought an action against the other a counterclaim
could have been set up, neither shall be deprived of the
benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other,
but the two demands shall be deemed compensated, so
far as they equal each other.
Sec. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer
as many defenses and counterclaims as he may have,
They shall each be separately stated, and the several de
fenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are
intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be
intelligibly distinguished.
Sec. 50. When the answer contains new matter, the
plaintifff may, within the number of days in which the
defendant is, by the summons, required to answer, said
<lays to be computed from the time of the service on the
plaintifff of a copy of such answer, demur to the same
for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds
thereof, and he may, also, within the same time demur
to one or more defenses, set up in the answer.
Sham and irrelevant answers, and defenses, and so much
of any answer as may be irrelevant, redundant or imma
terial may be 6tricken out on motion, and upon such
terms as the court in its discretion may impose.
Sec. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the
party, or his attorney, and when the complaint is verilied by affidavit, the answer shall be verified also, except
as provided in the next section.
Sec. 52. The verification of the answer required in
the last section, may be omitted when an admission of
the truth of the complaint might subject the party to
prosecution for felony or misdemeanor.
Sec. 53. When an action is brought upon a written
instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such
instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness
and due execution of such instrument shall be deemed
admitted, unless the answer denying the same be verified.
Sec. 5±. When the defense to an action is founded
upon a written instrument and a copy thereof is con
tained in the answer, or is annexed thereto, the genuine
ness and due execution of such instrument shall be
deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the clerk
five days before the commencement of the term at which
the action is to be tried, an affidavit denying the same:
Provided, That the due execution of the instrument
shall not be deemed to be admitted by a failure to con
trovert the same on oath ; as prescribed in this and the
last preceding sec.tion, unless the party controverting the
same is, upon demanding, permitted to inspect the orig
inal before filing such answer.
Sec. 55. In all cases of the verification of a plead
ing, the affidavit of the party shall state the same is true
of his own knowledge, except as to the matters, which
are therein stated on his information or belief, and as to
those matters, that he believes it to be true, and where a
pleading is verified, it shall be by the affidavit of the party,
unless he be absent from the county where the attorney
resides, or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facte
arc within the knowledge of his attorney or other person
verifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the
attorney, or any other person except the party, he shall set
forth in the affidavit the reason why it is not made by
the party. When a corporation is a party, the verifica
tion may be made by an officer or agent thereof ; or
when the Territory, or any officer thereof in its behalf,
is a party, the verification may be made by any person
acquainted with the facts, except that in actions prose
cuted in behalf of the Territory, or the people, the
pleadings need not, in any case, be verified.
Sec. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to tes
forth in a pleading the items of an account therein al
leged, but he shall deliver to the adverse party, within
five days after a demand thereof, in writing, a copy of
the account, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof. The court or a judge thereof, or a probate
judge may order a further account, when the one deliv
ered is too general or" is defective in any particular.
Sec. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be in
serted in a pleading, it may be stricken out by the court,
on motion of any person aggrieved thereby.
Sec. 58. In an action for the recovery of real property,
such property shall be described, with its metes and
bounds, in the complaint, or the property shall be so de
scribed by its commonly known description or designa
tion, as that the sheriff, or other officer, could with cer
tainty execute a writ of assistance or possession.
Sec. 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination
of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall
not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction,
but such judgment or determination may be stated to
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to estab
lish on the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction.
Sec. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state
the facts showing such performance ; but it may be
stated generally, that the party duly performed all the
conditions on his part ; and if such allegation be contro
verted, the party pleading shall establish on the trial the
facts showing such performance.
Sec. 61. In pleading a private statute or a right
denied therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such
statute by its title and the day of its passage, and the
court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
Sec. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall
not be necessary to state in the complaint any intrinsic
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the
plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause
of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to 6tate gener
ally, that the same was published or spoken concerning
the plaintifff ; and if such allegation be controverted, the
plaintifff shall establish on the trial that it was so pub
lished or spoken.
Sec. 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the
truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mit
igating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages ;
and, whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
Sec. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of
action in the 6ame complaint, when they all arise out of :
First, Contracts express or implied ; or, Second, Claims
to recover specific real property, with or without dama
ges for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed
thereon, and the rents and profits of the same ; or, Third,
Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof ; or,
Fourth, Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law ; or, Fifth. Injuries to character ;
or, Skcth, Injuries to person ; or, Seventh, Injuries to
property. But the causes of action so united shall all be
long to only one of these classes, and shall affect all the
parties to the action, and not require different places of
trial, and shall he separately stated : Provided, how•ever, That an action for malicious arrest and prosecution
or either of thein, may be united with an action for
either an injury to character or to person.
Sec. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint
n°t specially controverted by the answer, shall for the
purpose of the action, be taken as true. The allegation
of new matter in the answer shall on the trial be deemed
controverted by the adverse party.
Sec. ^6. A material allegation in a pleading is one es
sential to the claim, or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insuffi
cient.
Sec. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of
^ jggUe 0f jaw thereon, the pleadings demurred to may
be amended as of course and without costs, by filing the
same as amended and serving a copy thereof on the ad
verse party or his attorney within ten days, who shall
have ten days thereafter in which to demur or answer
thereto ; but a party shall not so amend more than once.
A demurrer shall not be deemed waived by the filing of
an answer at the same time of filing the demurrer; and
when the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, and
there is no answer filed, the court may upon terms, al
low an answer to be filed. If a demurrer to the answer
be overruled, the facts alleged in the answer shall be
considered as denied to the extent mentioned in section
6i.\ty-five. When circumstances occurring subsequently
to the commencement of the action render it proper, the
same may be presented by supplemental pleadings, and
issue taken thereon in the same manner as in the case of
original pleadings.
^Ec* ^' ^ue cour^ mav m furtherance of justice,
and on such terms as may be pioper, amend any plead• j. i_ i v *. -i • l ii
mgs or proceedings, by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of
a party, or a mistake in any other respect, and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for an answer or de
murrer, or demurrer to an answer filed. The court may
likewise, upon affidavit showing eood cause therefore, af
ter notice to the adverse party, allow upon such terms
as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or pro
ceeding in other particulars, and may, upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this act ; and may upon such terms as may be just, and!
upon payment of costs, relieve a party or his legal rep
resentatives from a judgment, order or other proceed
ing taken against him through his mistake, inadvertance,
surprise, or excusable neglect, and when for any cause
satisfactory to the court or judge at chambers, the party
aggrieved has been unable to apply for the relief sought
during the term at which such judgment, order or pro
ceeding complained of was taken, the court or the judge
at chambers in vacation may grant the relief upon ap
plication made within a reasonable time, not exceeding
Jive months after the adjournment of the term. "When
from any cause, the summons and a copy of the
complaint in an action have not been personally
served on the defendant, the court may allow on
such terms as may be just, such defendant or his
legal representatives, at any time within six months
after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to
answer to the merits of the original action.
Sec. 69. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name
of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name ; and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly.
Sec. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice be
tween the parties.
Sec. 71. The court shall in every stage of an action,
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or
proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights
of the parties, and no judgment shall be reversed or af
fected by reason of such error or defect.
^i-c. ^2. ^° Pcrson *^1 iall be arrested in a civil action,
except as prescribed by this act.
Sec. 73. The defendant may be arrested as herein
after provided, in the following cases :
First—In an action for the recovery of money or dam
ages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or
implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the
Territory with intent to defraud his creditors, or when
the action is for willful injury to person, to character or
to property, knowing the property to belong to another.
Second—In an action for a tine or penalty, or on a prom
ise to marry, or for money or property embezzled, or
fraudlently applied, or converted to his own use by a pub
lic officer, or an officer of a corporation, or an attorne}-,
factor, broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his em
ployment as such ; or by any other person in a fiduciary
capacity, or for misconduct or neglect in office, or in a
professional emnloyment, or for a willful violation of
duty. Third, in an action to recover the possession of
personal property unjustly detained, when the property
or any part thereof, has been concealed, removed or dis
posed of to prevent its being found or taken by the
sheriff. Fourth—When the defendant has been guilty
of fraud in contracting the debt or incurring the obliga
tion for which the action is brought, or in concealing or
disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or
conversion of which the action is brought. Fifth —When
the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors,
Sec. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant
shall be obtained from a judge of the court in which the
action is brought,
Sec. 75. The order may be made whenever it appears
to the judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or
some other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists,
and that the case is one of those mentioned in section
seventy-three. The affidavit shall be cither positive or
upon information and belief ; and when upon informa
tion and belief, it shall state the facts upon which the
information and belief are founded. If an order of ar
rest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of
the court in which such suit is pending.
Sec. 76. Before making an order, the judge must require
a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff,
with sureties in an amount to be h'xed by the judge, which
must be at least live hundred dollars, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay all costs . which may be adjudged
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful or with
out sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in
the undertaking. The undertaking must be filed with
the clerk of the court.
Sec. 77. The order may be made to accompany the
summons, or any time afterward before judgment. It
shall require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him
to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a
time therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending.
Sec. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the
affidavit upon which it is made, shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver
to him a copy of the affidavit, and also, if desired, a copy
of the order of arrest.
Sec. 79. The sheriff shall execute the order by ar
resting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until
discharged by law.
Sec. 80. The defendant at any time before execution,
shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon
giving bail, or upon depositing the amount mentioned in
the order of arrest.
Sec. 81. The defendant may give bail, by causing
a written undertaking to be executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, that the
defendant will at all times render himself amenable to
the process of the court, during the pendency of the ac
tion, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg
ment therein ; or that they will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the
action.
Sec. 82. At any time before judgment, or within
ten days thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant
in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the
sheriff of the county where he was arrested.
Sec. 83. For the purpose of surrendering the de
fendant, the bail at any time or place before they are
finally charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a writ
ten authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the under
taking, may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the
arrest of the defendant by the sheriff or upon defendants
delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or upon defendants
own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated ; Provided,
such arrest, delivery or surrender, take place before the
expiration of ten days after judgment; but if such ar
rest, delivery, or surrender, be not made within ten days
after judgment, the bail shall be finally charged on the
undertaking, and bound to pay the amount of judgment
within ten days thereafter.
Sec. 84-. If the bail neglect to or refuse to pay the
judgment within ten days after they are finally charged,
an action may be commenced against such bail for the
amount of such original judgment.
Sec. 85. The bail shall be exonerated by the death of
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a Territorial
prison ; or by his legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process.
Sec. 86. Within the time limited for the purpose,
the sheriff must file the order of arrest in the office of
the clerk of the court in which the action is pending,
with Iub return indorsed thereon ; together with a copy
of the undertaking of the bail. The original undertak
ing he shall retain in his possession until, as herein
provided. The plaintifff, within ten days thereafter,
may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not ac
cept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
them, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from his liabil
ity. If no notice be served within ten days, the original
undertaking shall be filed with the clerk of the court.
Sec. 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice
the sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintifff, or his
attorney, notice of the justification of the same, or other
bail, (specifying the place of residence and occupation of
the latter) before a judge of the court, or probate judge,
at a specified time and place ; the time to be not less
than five nor more than ten days thereafter, except by
consent of parties. In case other bail be given, there
shall be a new undertaking.
Sec. 88. The qualifications of bail are as follows :
First—Each of them must be a resident and householder,
or free holder, within the Territory ; Second—Each must
lie worth the amount specified in the order of arrest, or
the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided
in this chapter, over and above all his debts and liabili
ties, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the
judge on justification may allow more than two sureties
to justify severally, in amounts less than that expressed
in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to
that of two sufficient bail.
Sec. 89. For the purpose of justification, each of
the bail must attend before the judge, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on
oath, on the part of the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency
in such manner as the judge in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination must be reduced to writing,
and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.
Sec. 90. If the judge find the bail sufficient he
must annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse
his allowance thereon, and cause the same to be filed, and
the sheriff must thereupon be exonerated from liability.
Sec. 91. The defendant may, at the time of his ar
rest, instead of giving bail deposit with the sheriff the
amount mentioned in the order. In case the amount of
the bail be reduced, as provided in this act, the defend
ant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In
either case, the sheriff shall give the defendant a certifi
cate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be dis
charged out of custody.
Sec. 92. The sheriff shall immediately after the deposit,
pay the same into court, and take from the clerk receiv
ing the same two certificates of such payment, one
of which he shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff, or
his attorney and the other to the defendant. For any
default in making such payment the same proceedings
may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect
the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the
last two sections, bail may be given, and may justify
upon notice, at any time before judgment ; and on the
filing of the undertaking and justification with the clerk,
the money deposited shall be refunded to the defend
ant.
Sec. 94. Where money shall have been deposited,
if it remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of a
judgment in favor of the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under
the direction of the court apply the same in satisfaction
thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, shall refund
the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment
be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall, under like
direction of the court, refund to him the whole sum de
posited and remaining unapplied.
Sec. 95. If after being arrested, the defendant
escape or be rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable
as bail ; but he may discharge himself from such liabil
ity by the giving and justification of bail, at any time
before judgment.
Sec. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the
sheriff, upon his liability as bail, and an execution
thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
same proceedings may be had on his official bond, for
the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in other
cases of delinquency.
Sec. 97. A defendant arrested may at any time be
fore the justification of bail apply to the judge who
made the order, or the court in which the action is
pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to vacate
the order of arrest, or to reduco the amount of bail. If
the application be made upon affidavits on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may op
pose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition
to those on which the order of arrest was made.
Sec. 98. If upon such application, it appears that
there was not sufficient cause for arrest, the order shall
be vacated ; or if it satisfactorily appe ar that the bail
was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.
CHAPTER VI.
Claim and delivery of personal Property.
Sectiox Of). When claim'may be made.
ion. Affidavit to obtain order for delivery.
301. Proceedings on.
103. Sureties, excepting to.
104. Defendant may require return.
105. Justification of defendants sureties.
106. Qualification of sureties.
107. Property concealed.
108. Sheriff to keep property.
109. Property claimed by third party.
110. Notice, affidavit and undertaking to be filed.
Sec. 99. The plaintifff in an action to recover the
possession of personal property may, at the time of issu
ing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim
the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this
act.
Srcc. 100. "Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit
shall he made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his belialf, showing: First. That the plaintifff is the owner
of the property claimed, (particularly describing it) or is
entitled to the possession thereof ; Second-. That the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
Third. The alleged cause for the detention thereof, ac
cording to his best knowledge, information, and belief;
Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax, as
sessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under
an execution, or an attachment against the property of
the plaintifff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure ; Fifth. The "actual value of the prop
erty.
Sec. 101. The plaintifff or his attorney may thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit,
require the sheriff of the county where the property
claimed may be to take the same from the defendant.
Sec. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice
with a written undertaking executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect
that they are bound to the defendant in double the
value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the
prosecution of the action, for the return of the property
to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum of money as may, from
any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff
shall forthwith take the property described in the affi
davit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also, with
out delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit,
notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his agent, from
whose possession the property is taken ; or if neither can
be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode
of either, with some person of suitable age and discre
tion ; or if neither have any known place of abode, by
putting them in the nearest post office, directed to the
defendant.
Sec. 103. The defendant may, within two days
after service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking,
give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the suffi
ciency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When
the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify ,, on notice
in like manner as upon bail on arrest ; and the sheriff
shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
until the objection to them is cither waived, as above
provided, or until they justify. If the defendant except
to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as pro
vided in the next section.
Sec. 104. At any time before the delivery of the
property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not
except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return
thereof upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking,
executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property,
as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within five days after
the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall
be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in sec
tion one hundred and nine.
Sec. 105. The defendant's sureties, upon notice to
the plaintifff of not less than two nor more than five days,
shall justify before the judge in the same manner as
upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification the
sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The
sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties
until they justify, or until the justification is completed
or expressly waived, and may retain the property until
that time ; but if they, or others in their place, fail to
justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the plaintifff.
Sec. 106. The qualification of sureties and their jus
tification shall be such as are prescribed by this act in
respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
Seo. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be
concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall
publicly demand its delivery ; if it be not delivered, he
shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open,
and take the property into his possession ; and, if neces
sary, he may call to his aid the power of the county.
Sec. 108. When the sheriff shall have taken prop
erty, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a
secure place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto
upon receiving his lawful fees for taking and his neces
sary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. 109. If the property taken be claimed by any
other person than the defendant, or his agent, and such
person make affidavit of his title thereto, or right of
possession thereof, stating the gronnds of such title, or
right, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff
shall not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to
the plaintifff, nnless the plaintifff, on demand of him or
his agent, indemnify the sheriff against such claim by an
undertaking by two sufficient sureties ; and no claim to
such property by any other person than the defendant,
or his agent, is valid against the sheriff unless so made.
Sec. 110. The sheriff shall file the notice, undertak
ing and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the
clerk of the court in. which the action is pending within
twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein.
CHAPTEE VII.
Injunctions.
Section 111.
Injunctions defined.
112.
In what cases may be, and when granted.
114. After answer.
115. Undertaking on.
116.
Order to show cause.
in.
Injunction to suspend business of corporation.
118.
Motion to dissolve or modify.
119.
Dissolution or modification.
Sec. 111. An injunction is a writ or order requiring
a person to refrain from a particular act. It may be
granted by the court in which the action is brought, or
by the judge thereof, and when made by a judge may
be enforced as the order of the court.
Sec. 112. An injunction may be granted in the following
cases : First. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually.
Second. When it shall appear by the complaint or affi
davit that the commission or continuance of some act
during the litigation would produce waste, great or irre
parable injury to the plaintifff. Third. When it shall
appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing,
or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring, or suffer
ing to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff's
rights, respecting the subject of the action and tending
to render the -judgment ineffectual.
Sec. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time
of issuing the summons upon the complaint, and at any
time afterwards before judgment upon affidavits. The
complaint in the one case, and the affidavits in the other,
shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefore. No injunction shall be granted on tlie com
plaint unless it is verified. When granted on the com
plaint, a copy of the complaint, and verification attached,
shall he served with the injunction ; when granted upon
affidavit, a copy of the affidavit shall be served with the
injunction.
Sec. 114. An injunction cannot be allowed after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an
order to sho\y cause; but, in such case, the defendant
may be restrained until the decision of the court or
judge granting or refusing the injunction.
Sec. 115. On granting an injunction the court or
judge shall require, except where the people of the Ter
ritory are a party plaintifff, a written undertaking on the
part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect
that the plaintifff will pay to the party enjoined such
damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, as
such party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if
the court finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled
thereto.
Sec. 110. If the court or judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any of several defendants, shall be
heard before granting the injunction, an order may be
made requiring cause to be shown at a specified time and
place why the injunction should not be granted; and the
defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.
Sec. 117. An injunction to suspend the general and
ordinary business of a corporation shall not be granted
except by the court or the judge thereof; nor shall it
be granted without due notice of the application therefore
to the proper officers, or agents, or managers of the cor
poration, except when the people of this Territory are a
party to the proceedings,
Sec. 118. If an injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply,
upon reasonable notice, tQ the judge who granted the
injunction, or to the court in which the action is brought,
to dissolve or modify the same. The application may be
made upon the complaint and t]ie affidavit on which the
injunction was granted, or upon affidavit on the part of
the defendant, with or without the answer. If the appli
cation be made ujion affidavit on the part of defendant,
but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on
which the injunction was granted.
S*:c. 11!). If, upon such application, it satisfactorily
appears that there is not sufficient ground for the injunc
tion, it shall be dissolved; or if it appear that the
extent of the injunction is too great, it shall be
modified.
CHAPTER VIII.
Aitaclimenta.
fn.i/oji ISO. Time and ground fur attachment.
121. Affidavit what to show.
12*. Undertaking of plaintifff.
123. Writ, requirement of; several may isaue.
144. What property may be attached.
125. How writ shall be executed.
121! Property in the hands of third party, how attached.
127. Liability of third party.
1*. Examination of third party.
129. Return m sheriff.
130. Perishable propel ty to be eolfl.
181. Property claimed by third party.
132. Judgment, how satisfied, and notice of sale.
138. Proceedings when execution returned unsatisfied.
134. Proceedings when defendant recovers Judgment,
135. Discharge of attachment, when made, and the delivery of prop
erty.
130. Application for discharge of attachment—when made.
137. Undertaking to release attachment.
13S. Motion to discharge for irregularity.
130. Motion upon affidavits.
140. When discharged.
Sec. 120. The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached as security for the satisfaction
of any judgment that may be recovered, unless
the defendant give security to pay such judgment, in the
following cases : First. In an action upon a contract,
express or implied, for the direct payment of money,
which contract is not secured by a mortgage, lien or
pledge upon real or personal property; or if so secured,
that such security has, without any act of the plaintifff
or the person to whom the security was given, become
valueless. Second. In an action upon a contract, express
or implied, against a defendant not residing in this Ter
ritory.
Sec. 121. The clerk of the court shall issue the writ
of attachment upon receiving an affidavit by or on behalf
of the plaintifff, which shall be filed, setting forth—
First. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff,
specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and
above all legal set-offs and counterclaims, upon a con
tract, express or implied, for the direct payment of
money, and that the payment of the same has" not been
secured by any mortgage, lien or pledge upon real or
personal property ; or, if so secured, that such security
lias, -without any act of the plaintifff or the person to
"whom the security was given, become valueless ; or,
second, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff
(specifying the amount of the indebtedness, as near as
may be, over and above all legal set-offs and counter
claims), and that the defendant is a non-resident of the
Territory ; and, third, that the attachment is not sought,
and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or de
fraud any creditor or creditors of the defendant.
Sec. 122. Before issuing the writ the clerk must
require a written undertaking on the part of the plain
tiff, in a sum not less than two hundred dollars, and
not exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff, with
sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment the plaintifff will pay all costs that
may be awarded to the defendant .and all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, if the attach
ment be wrongfully issued.
Sec. 123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of
any county in which property of such defendant may
be, and require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of such defendant within his county not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient
to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which
shall be stated in conformity with the complaint, unless
the defendant give him security by the undertaking of
at least two sufficient sureties in an amount sufficient to
satisfy such demand besides costs, or in an amount equal
to the value of the property which has been or is about
to be attached ; in which case, to take such undertaking,
several writs may be issued at the same time to the
sheriffs of different counties ; and the plaintifff shall be
entitled to other writs of attachment as often as he may
require at any time before judgment.
Sec. 124. The rights or shares which the defendant
may have in the stock of any corporation or company,
together with the interest and profits thereon, and all
debtB due such defendant, and all other property in this
Territory of such defendant not exempt from execution,
may be attached, and, if judgment be recovered, be sold
to satisfy the judgment and execution.
Sec. 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed
and delivered shall execute the same without delay, and
if the undertaking mentioned in section one hundred
and twenty-three be not given, as follows : First. Real
property, standing upon the records of the county in the
name of the defendant, must be attached by filing with
the Recorder of the county a copy of the writ, together
with a description of the property attached, and a notice
that it is attached, and by leaving a similar copy of the
writ, description and notice with an occupant of the
property, if there is one ; if not, then by posting the
same in a conspicuous place on the property attached.
Ileal property, or an interest therein, belonging to the de
fendant and held by any other person, or standing on the
records of the county in the name of any other person,
must be attached by filing with the Recorder of thecounty
a copy of the writ, together with a description of
the property and a notice that such real property, and
any interest of the defendant therein, held by or stand
ing in the name of such other person (naming him), are
attached ; and by leaving with the occupant, if any, and
with such other person, or his agent, if known and with
in the county, or at the residence of either, if within the
county, a copy of the writ, with a similar description
and notice. If there is no occupant of the property, a
copy of the writ, together with such description and
notice, must be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
property. The Recorder must index such attachment
when filed in the names both of the defendant and of the
person by whom the property is held or in whose name
it stands on the records. Second. Personal property,
capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by taking
it into custody. Third. Stock or shares, or interest in
stock or shares, of any corporation or company shall be
attached by leaving with the president, or other head of
the same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent
thereof, a copy of the writ and a notice stating that the
stock or interest of the defendant is attached in pursu
ance of such writ. Fourth. Debts and credits and
other personal property not capable of manual delivery,
shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such
debts, or having in his possession or under his control
sueh credits, or other personal property, or .with his agent,
a copy of the writ and a notice that the debts owing by
him to the defendant, or the credits or other personal
property in his possession or under his control belonging
to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ.
Sec. 126. Upon receiving information in writing
from the plaintifff, or his attorney, that any person has
in his possession or under his control any credits or other
personal property belonging to the defendant, or is owing
any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon
such person a copy of tlie writ and a notice that sucli
credits or other property or debts, as the case may be,
are attached in pursuance of such writ.
Sec. 127. All persons having in their possession or
under their control any credits or other personal prop
erty belonging to the defendant, or owing any debts to
the defendant at the time of service upon them of a copy
of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sec
tions, shall be (unless such property bo delivered np or
transferred, or such debts be paid to the sheriff) liable to
the plaintifff for the amount of such credits, property or
debts until the attachment be discharged or any judg
ment recovered by him be satisfied.
Sec. 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant,
or having in his possession or under his control, any
credits or other personal property belonging to the defenddant, may be required to attend before the court or
judge, or a referee appointed by the court or judge, and
be examined on oath respecting the same. The defend
ant may also be required to attend, for the purpose of
giving information respecting his property, and may be
examined on oath. The court or judge may, after such
examination, order personal property, capable of manual
delivery, to be delivered to the sheriff', on such terms as
may be just—having reference to any liens thereon or
claims against the same —and a memorandum to be given
of all personal property, containing the amount and des
cription thereof.
Sec. 129. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of
the property attached and return the same with the
writ. To enable him to make such return, as to the
debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the time
of service, the party owing the debts or having tho
credit, to give him a memorandum, stating the amount
and description of each : and if such memorandum bo
refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with the writ.
The party refusing to give the memorandum may be re
quired to pay the costs of any proceedings taken for the
purpose of obtaining information respecting the amount
and description of such debt or credit.
Sec. 130. If any of the property attached be per
ishable, the sheriff shall sell the same, in the manner in
which such property is sold on execution. The proceeds
and other property attached by him, shall be retained
by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in
the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon an
other judgment, recovered previous to the issuing of the
attachment. Dobts and credits attached mav be collected
1)3* him, if the same can be done without suit. Tlio
sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for tlio
amount paid ; /Second. Whenever property has been ta
ken by an officer under a writ of attachment, and it is
made to appear satisfactorily to the court, or a judge
thereof, or the probate judge, that the interest of the
parties to the action, will be subserved by a sale thereof,
the court or judge may order such property to be sold
in the same manner as property is sold under an execu
tion, and the proceeds to be deposited in the court to
abide the judgment in the action. Such order can be
made only upon notice to the adverse party or his attor
ney, in case such party has been personally served with
a .summons in the action.
Sec. 131. If any personal property attached be
claimed by a third person as his property, the sheriff
may .summon a jury of six men to try the validity of
sgch claim ; and such proceedings shall be had thereon,
with the like effect, as in case of claim after levy upon
.execution.
Sec. 132. If the judgment be recovered by the
plaintifff, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the
property attached by hiin, which has not been delivered
to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore provided,
or subjected to execution on another judgment recov
ered previous to th.e issuing of the attachment, if it be
sufficient for that purpose : First. By paying to the
plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable property
sold by him or of any debts or credits collected by him,
or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment;
Second, If any balance rejnain due and an execution
shall have been issued on the judgment, he shall sell un
der the execution so much of the property, real or per
sonal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remain in his hands. JS'otices
of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in
other cases of sales on execution.
Sec. 133. If after selling all the property attached
by him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds ot any debts or credits
collected by him, deducting his ices, to the payment of
the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the
sheriff shall proceed to collect such balance, as upon an
execution in other eases. Whenever the judgment shall
have been paid, the sheriff upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property
remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property
attached unapplied on the judgment.
Sec. 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfiedj
in whole or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute any un
dertaking given, pursuant to sections one hundred and
twenty-three and one hundred and thirty-seven, or he
may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an exe
cution.
Sec. 135. If the defendant recover judgment against
the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action, all
the proceeds of sales, and money collected by the sheriff,
and all the property attached remaining in the sheriffs
hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent,
the order of attachment shall be discharged and the
property released therefrom.
Sec. 136. Whenever the defendant shall have ap
peared in the action he may, upon reasonable notice to
the plaintifff, apply to the court in which the action is
pending, or to the judge thereof, or to a probate judge,
for an order to discharge the attachment, in whole or in
part ; and upon the execution of the undertaking men
tioned in the next section, an order may be made releas
ing from the operation of the attachment any or all of
the property attached, and all of the property so released,
and all of the proceeds of the sales thereof, must be de
livered to the defendant, upon the justification of the
sureties on the undertaking, if required by the plaintifff.
Sec. 137. Before the granting of such order the
court, or judge, shall require an undertaking, on behalf
of the defendant, by at least two sureties, residents and
freeholders, or householders, in the county, to the effect
that, in case plaintifff recover judgment in the action,
defendant will, on demand, redeliver such attached
property so released to the proper officer to be applied
to the payment of the judgment, or, in default thereof,
defendant and sureties will, on demand, pay to the plain
tiff the full value of the property released. The court
or judge granting sne-h release may fix the sum for
which the undertading shall be executed, and, if neces
sary in fixing such sum to know the value of the prop
erty released, the same may be appraised by three disin
terested persons, to be appointed for that purpose. The
sureties may be required to justify before the court or
judge, and the property attached shall not be released
from the attachment without their justification, if the
same be required.
Srco. 138. The defendant may also, at any time
before the time for answering expires, apply on motion,
upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to the court in
which the action is brought, or to the judge thereof, or
to a probate judge, that the writ of attachment be dis
charged on the ground that the same was improperly or
irregularly issued.
Sec. 139. If the motion be made upon affidavit on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plain- o
tiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence
in addition to those on which the attachment was made.
Sec. 140. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily
appears that the writ of attachment was improperly or
irregularly issued, it must be discharged.
Sec. 141. The sheriff shall return the writ of attach
ment with the summons, if issued at the same time;
otherwise, within twenty days after its receipt, with a cer
tificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon or attached
thereto.
CHAPTER IX.
Receivers.
SicrioH 142. Appointment of receiver.
143. Receivers to take charge of property when corporation dis
solved.
144. Who may be appointed to receive, and their undertakings.
145. Oath and undertaking by receivers.
liii. Receivers, duties and powers of.
147. Funds invested by consent.
Sec. 142. A receiver may be appointed by the court
in which an action is pending or judgment is entered,
or by a judge thereof, in the following cases : First. In
an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or
fund to his claim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintifff, or of any party whose right
to or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds
thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the
property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or
materially injured. Second. In an action by a mort
gagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage and sale of
the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mort
gaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or
materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage
has not been performed, and that the property is prob
ably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt. Third.
After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
Fourth. After judgment, to dispose of the property
according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the
pendency of on appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execation when ait execution has been returned unsatisfied^
or when the judgment debtor refuses to a]">ply his prop
erty in satisfaction of the judgment. Fifth. In cases
where a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or
in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its
corporate rights. Sixth. In all otlier cases where the
appointment of a receiver is sanctioned by the practice
and usages of courts of equity:
Sec. 14:3 Upon the dissolution of any corporation
t],e District Court of the countv in which the corporation
. , . ■ . .- . . . . r
carries (ill its business, or has its principal piacei ot businesSj on application of any creditor of the! corporation,
or of any stockholder or member thereof, may appoint
one or more persons to he receivers or trustee's of tlie
corporation, to take charge of the estate and effects
thereof, and to collect the debts and property due and
belonging to the corporation, and to pay the outstanding
debts thereof, and to divide the monies and other prop
erty that shall remain over among the stockholders1 or
members,
Sec. 14-1. !Nb party, or attorney, or person interested
]n an action, can be appointed receiver therein without the written consent ot the parties filed with the
clerk. If a receiver be appointed upon an ex parte appli
cation, the court, before making the order, may require
from the applicant an undertaking, with sufficient sure
ties, in an amount to be fixed by the court, to the effect
that the applicant will pay to the defendant all damages
he may sustain by reason of the appointment of such
receiver and the entry by him upon his duties, iri case
the applicant shall have procured such appointment
wrongfully, maliciously or without sufficient cause ; and
the court may, in its discretion, at any time after said
appointment, require an additional undertaking.
Sec. 145. Before entering upon his duties the rce'eiver
must be 6worn to perform them faithfully, and,
. , . r ,. . *v ,
with one or more sureties approved by the court or judge,
execute an undertaking to such person, and in such sum
as the court or judge may direct, to the effect that he
will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the
action and obey the orders of the court therein.
Sec. 146. The receiver has, under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own
nain0 as rccciVer, to take and keep possession of the
property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for
and compromise the same, make transfers, and generally
to do such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize.
Sec. 147. Funds in the Lands of a receiver may bo'
invested upon interest by order of tbe court, but no such
order can be made except upon consent of tme ©f the
parties to the action.
CHAPTER X,
Deposit in Court.
EECTtoK 14'. When cnilrt mnv order dc.;)*?!.
MB. When order of court dlsobevcdSec. 148. "When it is admitted by the pleading, or
shown by the party, that he has in possession or under
his control any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to
another party, the court may order the same, upon
motion, to be deposited in court or delivered to such
party, upon such conditions as may be just, subject to the'
further direction of the court.
Sec. 149. Whenever in the exercise of its authority
a court has ordered the deposit or delivery of money or
other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides^
punishing the disobedience, may make an order requir
ing the sheriff to take the money or thing and deposit
or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the
court.
CHAPTER XI.
Trial and Judgment.
Section 150. Judgment.
151. How given, effect of.
152. Against one of several defendants.
158. Extent of relief.
154. Dismissal of action, o' non-salt.
155. Judgment on merits.
156. Judgment upon failure to answer.
Sec. 150. A judgment is the fi^al determination of
the rights of the parties in the action or proceeding.
Sec. 151. Judgment may be given for or against one
or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or
more of several defendants ; and it may, -when the
justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.
Sec. 152. In an action against several defendants,
the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against
one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed
against the others, whenever a several judgment is
proper.
Sec. 153. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there
be no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have
demanded in his complaint ; but in any other case the
court may grant him any relief consistent with the case
made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.
Sec. 154. An action may be dismissed or judgment
of nonsuit entered in the following cases : First. By the
plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, upon the pay
ment of costs, if a counterclaim has not been made. If
a provisional remedy has been allowed, the undertaking
shall thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defend
ant, who may have his action thereon. Second. By
either party upon the written consent of the other.
Third. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear
on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the
dismissal. Fourth. By the court, when, upon the trial,
and before the final submission of the case, the plaintifff
abandons it. Fifth. By the court, upon motion of the
defendant, when, upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to
prove a sufficient case for the jury. The dismissal in
the first two subdivisions shall be made by an entry in
the clerk's register. Judgment may thereupon be en
tered accordingly.
Sec. 155. in every case other than those mentioned
in the last section the judgment shall be rendered on the
merits.
JUDGMENT UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.
Sec. 156. Judgment may be had, if the defendant
fail to answer, as follows: First. In an action arising
upon contract for the recovery of money or damages
only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the
court within the time specified in the summons, or such
further time as may have been granted, the clerk, upon
application of the plaintifff, shall enter the default of
the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judg
ment for the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more
of several defendants, in the cases provided for in sec
tion thirty-two. Second. In other actions, if no answer
has been filed with the clerk of the court within the time
specified in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the clerk shall enter the default of
the defendant, and thereafter the plaintifff may apply, at
the first or any subsequent term of the court for the
relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to enable
the court to give judgment or to carry the judgment into
effect, the court may take the account, or hear the proof,
or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that pur
pose. And when the action is for the recovery of dam
ages, in whole or in part, the court may order the dam
ages to be assessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the
amount of damages, the examination of a long account
be necessary, by a reference, as above provided. Third.
In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time
designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof
of the publication and that no answer has been filed,
apply for judgment; and the court shall thereupon
require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in
the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of
the Territory, shall require the plaintifff, or his agent, to
be examined on oath respecting any payments that have
been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on
account of such demand, and may render judgment for
the amount which he is entitled to recover.
CHAPTER XII.
Of Issues and the Manner of their Disposition.
Section 157. When an issue arises.
168. Of law on demurrer.
159. Of fact upon answer.
160. Of law, how tried.
161. Of fact, how tried.
162. Entry of canses on calendar.
163. Either party may bring issne to trial.
164. Postponement of trial.
165. Deposition of witness may be taken.
Sec. 157, An issue arises when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party and controverted
by the other. Issues are of two kinds—First, of law ;
second, of fact.
Sec. 158. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer
to the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 159. An issue of fact arises —First, upon a
material allegation in the complaint controverted by the
answer ; second, upon new matter in the answer, except
an issue of law is joined therein.
Sec. 160. ' An issue of law shall be tried by the court,
unless it be referred, upon consent.
Sec. 161. An issue of fact arising in cases at law
must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be expressly
waived or a reference ordered, as provided in this code.
"Where in these cases there are 'issues both of law and
fact, the issues of law must be first disposed of. In other
cases issues of fact must be tried by the court, subject to
its power to order any such issues to be tried by a jury,
or to be referred to a referee, as provided in this code.
Sec. 162. The clerk shall enter causes upon the cal
endar of the court according to the date of the issue.
Causes once placed upon the calendar for a general or
special term, if not tried or heard at such term, shall
remain upon the calendar from court to court until
finally disposed of.
Sec. 163. Either party may bring the issue to a trial
or to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party
(unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct), may
proceed with liis case and take a dismissal of the action,
or a verdict of judgment, as the case may require.
Sec. 164. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground
of the absence of evidence shall only be made upon
affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expect
ed to be obtained and that due diligence has been used
to procure it. The court may also require the moving
party to state upon affidavit the evidence which he
expects to obtain ; and if the adverse party thereupon
admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be
considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and
overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.
Sec. 165. The party obtaining a postponement of a
trial in any court of record must, if required by the ad
verse party, consent that the testimony of any witness
of such adverse party, who is in attendance be then ta
ken by a deposition before a judge or clerk of the court
in which the case is pending, or before such notary pub
lic as the court shall indicate which must accordingly be
done ; and the testimony so taken may be read on the
trial with the same effect, and subject to the same objec-.
tions as if the witness was produced.
Sec. 166. When the action is called for trial by jury,
the clerk shall prepare separate ballots, containing the
names of the jurors summoned, who have appeared and
not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall
then draw from the box twelve names, and the persona
whose names are drawn shall constitute the jury. If the
ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, or
if from any cause, a juror or jurors be excused or dis
charged, the sheriff,' shall summon, under the direction
of the court, from the citizens of the county, and not
from by-standers, so many qualified persons as may be
necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist
of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less
number. The parties may consent to any number not
less than three. Snch consent shall be entered by the
clerk in the minutes of the trial.
Sec. 167. Either party may challenge the jurors,
but when there are several parties on either side, they
shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The
challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall either
be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges. If no peremp
tory challenges are taken until the panel is full, they must
be taken by the parties alternatively, commencing with
the plaintifff.
Sec. 168. Challenges for cause may be taken on one
or more of the following grounds : first. A want of
any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to render
a person competent as a juror. Second. Consanguinity
or affinity within the fourth degree to either party.
Third. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward,
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent, to either party, or being a member of the family
of either party, or a party in business with eith
er party, or, being security on any bond or obliga
tion for either party. Fourth. Having served as a juror
or having been a witness on a previous trial between the
same parties for the same cause of action. Fifth. Interest
on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action, except the interest
of the juror as a member or citizen of a municipal cor
poration. Sixth. Having an unqualified opinion or
belief as to the merits of the action, founded upon
knowledge of its material facts, or of some of them.
Seventh. The existence of a state of mind in the juror
evincing enmity against or bias to or against either party.
Sec. 169. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the
court. Tne juror challenged, and any other person may
be examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.
Sec. 170. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath
or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in sub
stance that they, each of them, will, well and truly try
the matter in issue between the plaintifff, and
the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the
evidence.
CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL.
Sec. 171. If, after the empaneling of the jnry and
before a verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable
to perform his duty, the court may order him to be dis
charged. In that case the trial may proceed with the
other jurors, or a new jury may be sworn, and the trial
begin anew ; or the jury may be discharged and a new
jury then or afterward empaneled.
Sec. 172. In charging the jury, the court shall state
to them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for
their information in giving their verdict ; and, if it state
the testimony of the case, it shall also inform the jury
that they are the exclusive judges of all questions of
fact. The court shall furnish to either party, at the time
upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law
contained in the charge, or shall sign at the time, a
statement of such points prepared and submitted by the
counsel of either party.
Sec. 173. After hearing the charge, the jury may
either decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they
retire, they shall be kept together in a room provided
for them, or some other convenient place, under the
charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon thier
verdict, or are discharged by the court. The officer
shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together,
separate from other persons : he shall not suffer any com
munication to be made to them, or make any himself,
unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they
have agreed upon their verdict ; and he shall not, before
the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the
state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.
Sec. 17i. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
may take with them all papers which have been received
as evidence in the case, except depositions and copies of
such papers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to
be taken from the person having them in possession ; and
they may also take with them notes of the testimony, or
other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or
any of them, but none taken by any other person.
Sec. 175. After the jury have retired for delibera
tion, if there be a disagreement between them as to any
part of the testimony or if they desire to be informed of
any point of law arising in the cause, they may require
the officer to conduct them into court. Upon their be
ing brought into court, the information required shall be
given in the presence of or after notice to the parties or
counsel.
Sec. 176. In all cases where a jury are discharged,
or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident
or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or
after the cause is submitted to them, the action may be
ajrain tried immediately
may direct.
or at a future time, as the court
Sec. J 77. While the jury are absent, the court may
adjourn, from time to time, in respect to other business ;
but it shall nevertheless be deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury,
until a verdict is rendered, or the jury discharged. The
court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at
the opening of the court, in case of an agreement dur
ing recess, or adjournment for the day. A final ad
journment of the court for the term shall discharge the
]ury.
Seo. 178. "When the jury shall have agreed upon
their verdict, they shall be conducted into eourt by the
officer having them in charge, their names shall then be
called, and they shall be asked by the court, or clerk
whether they have agreed upon their virdict ; and if the
foreman answer in the affirmative, they shall on being
required, declare the same ; either party may require the
jury to be polled.
Sec. 179. If the verdict be informal or insufficient
in not covering the whole issue or issues submitted, the
verdict may be corrected by the jury, under the advice
of the eourt, or the jury may be again sent out.
Seo. 180. When the verdict is given, and is not in
formal or insufficient, the clerk shall immediately record
it in full, in the minutes, and shall read it to the jury,
and iuquire of them whether it be their verdict. If any
juror disagree, the jury shall be again sent out ; but if
no disagreement be expressed, the verdict shall be com
plete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.
THE VEEDICT.
Sec. 181. The verdict of the jury is either general
or special. A general verdict is that by which they pro
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in
favor of the plaintifff or defendant ; a special verdict is
that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the court The special verdict shall pre
sent the conclusions of fact established by the evidence,
and not the evidence to prove them ; and those conclu
sions of fact shall be so presented as that nothing shall
remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions
of law.
Sec. 182. In an action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury in their discre
tion, may render a general or special verdict. In all
other cases the court may direct the jury to find a spe
cial verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and
in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general
verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact to be
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding
thereon. The special finding or verdict shall be filed
with the clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a
special finding of facts shall he inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and
the court shall give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 183. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff
in an action for the recovery of money, or for the de
fendant when a counterclaim for the recovery of money
is established exceeding the amount of the plaintifff's
claim as established, the jury shall also find the amount
of the recovery.
Sec. 184. In an action for the recovery of specific
personal property, if the property has not been delivered
to the plaintff, or the defendant by his answer claim a
return thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of
the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they
alsofind that he is entitled to a return thereof, shall find
the value of the property, and, if so instructed, the value
of specific portions thereof, and may at the same time
assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the taking or detention of such property.
Sec. 185. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall
be made by the clerk in the minutes of the court, speci
fying the time of trial, the names of the jurors and wit
nesses, and the verdict ; and where a special verdict is
found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or, if the
case be reserved for argument or further consideration,
the order thus reserving it.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
Sec. 186. Trial by jury may be waived by the sev
eral parties to an issue oi fact in an action arising on
contract, or for the recovery of specific real or personal
property, with or without damages, and with the assent
of the court in other actions, in the manner following :
First. By failing to appear at the trial. Secmid. By
written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the
clerk. Third. By oral consent, in open court, entered
in the minutes.
Sec. 187. Upon the trial of a question of fact by
the court, its decision shall be given in writitfg and filed
with the clerk within ten days after the cause is submit
ted for decision. In giving the decision the facts found
and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated.
Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accord
ingly.
Sec. 188. Findings of fact may be waived by the
several parties to an issue of fact : First. By failing to
appear at the trial. Second. By consent, in writing,
filed with the clerk. Third. By oral consent, in open
court, entered in the minutes.
Sec. 189. At the time the cause is submitted the
judge may direct either or both of the parties to prepare
findings of facts, unless they have been waived, and
when so directed the party must, within two days, pre
pare and serve upon his adversary and 6ubmit to the
judge such findings, and may, within two days there
after, briefly suggest in writing to the judge why he
desires findings upon the points included within the
findings prepared by himself, or why he objects to find
ings upon the points included within the findings pre
pared by his adversary. The judge may adopt, modify
or reject the findings so submitted. If at the time of
the submission of the cause the judge does not direct the
preparation of findings, or those prepared are rejected,
then he must himself prepare the findings.
Sec. 190, On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an
issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed
by the first two subdivisions of section one hundred and
fifty-six upon the failure of the defendant to answer. If
judgment be for the defendant upon an issue of law,
and the taking of an account or the proof of any fact be
necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment,
# reference may be ordered, as in that section provided,
OF REFERENCES ASTD TRIALS BY REFEREE.
Sec. 191. A reference may be ordered upon the
agreement of the parties filed with the clerk or entered
in the minutes—First, to try any or all of the issues in
an action or proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and
to report a finding and judgment thereon; second, to
ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to deter
mine an action or proceeding.
Sec. 192. When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own
motion, direct a reference in the following cases : When
the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of
a long account on either side, in which case the referees
may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to
report upon any specific question of fact involved there
in ; or when the taking of an account shall be necessary
for the information of the court before the judgment, or
for carrying a judgment or order into effect ; or when a
question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall
arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action ; or when it is necessary for the information of
the court in a special proceeding.
Sec. 193. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the
parties. If the party do not agree, the court or judge
may appoint one or more, not exceeding three, who
reside in the county in which the action or proceeding
is triable, and against whom there is no legal objection.
Sec. 194. When the appointment of referees is
made by the judge, each referee shall be—First, quali
fied as a juror as provided by statute; second, compe
tent as a juror between the parties.
Sec. 195. When the referees are chosen by the court,
each party shall have the same right to challenge as to
such referees, to be made and determined in the same
manner and with like effect as in the formation of juries,
except that neither party shall be entitled to a peremp
tory challenge. Subject to the limitations and directions
prescribed in the order of reference, the trial by referees
shall be conducted in the same manner as a trial by the
court. They shall have the same power to grant ad
journments, to administer oaths, to preserve order, and
punish all violations thereof, upon such trial, and to
compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish them
for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or to testify, as
is possessed by the court. The objections taken to the
appointment of any person as referee must be heard and
.disposed of by the court. Affidavits may be read and
witnesses examined as to such objections.
Sec. 196. The referees must report their findings in
writing to the court within twenty days after the testi
mony is closed, and the facts found and the conclusions
of law must be separately stated therein.
Sec. 197. The finding of the referee upon the whole
issue must stand as the finding of the court, and upon
filing of the finding with the clerk of the court, judg
ment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the court.
Sec. 198. The findings of the referee may be ex
cepted to and reserved in like manner as is made by the
court. When the referee is to report the facts, the find
ing reported has the effect of a special verdict.
Sec. 199. The report shall be filed with the clerk ;
if filed in term time, either party may, within such
time as may be prescribed by the rules of court, or by
special order, move to set the same aside or for judg
ment thereon, or such order or proceeding as the nature
of the case may require. If the report be filed in vaca
tion, the like proceedings may be had at the next term
following. The court may affirm or set aside the report,
either in whole or in part. If it affirm the report, it
shall give judgment accordingly. If the report be set
aside, either in whole or in part, the court may make
another order of reference as to all or to so much of the
report as is set aside to the original referees, or others,
or it may find the facts and determine the law itself, and
give judgment accordingly. Upon a motion to set aside
a report, the conclusion thereof shall be deemed and
considered as the verdict of a jury.
Sectiox 200.
201.
202.
203.
an.
SMB.
208.
207.
CHAPTER XIV,
Exceptions.
Exception defined.
Exceptions, when implied.
Exceptions, how taken.
Bill of exceptions.
Settlement of.
Exceptions after Judgmeat.
When exception is refused, application to Supreme Court te>
prove same.
Proceedings where judg3 ceases to hold office.
Sec. 200. An exception is an objection upon a matter
of law to' a decision of a court, judge, or referee, in an
action or proceeding, and may be taken by either party
to any decision made either before or after judgment,
and, except as provided in the following sections, it must
be taken at the time the decision is made.
Sec. 201. The adverse party is deemed to have ex
cepted to the verdict of the jury, or the final decision of
the court or referee, to an order granting or refusing a
new trial, sustaining or overruling a demurrer, striking
out a pleading or any part thereof, granting or refusing
a continuance, granting or refusing to change the place
of trial ; and is also deemed to have excepted to every
order, ruling, or proceeding made or had in the action
or proceeding, either before or after judgment, upon an
ex parte application.
Sec. 202. No particular form of exception is re
quired. The objection must be stated, with so much of
the evidence or other matter as is necessary to explain it,
and no more. But when the exception is to the verdict
or decision upon the grounds of the insufficiency of the
evidence to sustain it, the objection must specify the -par
ticulars in which such evidence is alleged to be insuf
ficient.
Sec. 203. A bill containing the exception to any
rulingmaybe presented to the judge at the time the
ruling is made. It must be conformable to the truth, or
be at the time corrected until it is so, and signed by the
judge and filed by the clerk.
Sec. 204. "When a party desires to have an exception,
taken at a trial, settled in a bill of exceptions, be must,
within ten days after the entry of judgment, if the action
were tried with a jury, or after receiving the notice of
•entry of judgment, ii the action were tried without a
jury, or such further time as the court in which the
action is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, prepare
the draft of a bill and serve the same, or a copy .thereof,
upon the adverse party. Such draft must contain all the
exceptions taken upon which the party relies. Within
ten days after such service the adverse party may pro
pose amendments thereto, and serve the same, or a copy
thereof, upon the other part}7. The proposed bill and
amendments must, within ten days thereafter, be pre
sented by the party seeking the settlement of the bill to
the judge who tried or heard the case, upon five days'
notice to the adverse party, or be delivered to the clerk
of the court for the judge. When received by the clerk
he must immediately deliver them to the judge, if he be
in the county; if he be absent from the county, and
either party desire the papers to be forwarded to the
judge, the clerk must, upon notice in writing of such
party, immediately forward them by mail or other safe
channel ; if not thus forwarded, the clerk must deliver
them to the judge immediately after his return to the
county. When received from the clerk, the judge must
designate the time at which he will settle the bill, and
the clerk must immediately notify the parties of such
designation. At the time designated the judge must
settle the bill. If the action was tried before a referee,
the proposed bill, with the amendments, if any, must be
presented to such referee for settlement within ten days
to the adverse party, and thereupon the referee shall
'.settle the bill. If no amendments are served, or if
served and allowed, the proposed bill may be presented,
with the amendments, if any, to the judge or referee
for settlement, without notice to the adverse party. It
is the duty of the judge or referoe, in settling the bill,
to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, so
that the exceptions may be presented as briefly as possible. When settled, the hill must be signed by the
judge or referee, with his certificate to the effect that the
same is correct and is allowed, and shall then be filed
with the clerk.
Sec. 205. Exceptions to any decision made after
judgment may be presented to the judge at the time of
such decision, and be settled or noted, as provided in section two hundred and three, and a bill thereof may be
presented and settled afterwards, as provided in section
two hundred and four, and within like periods after
entry of the order, upon appeal from which such deci
sion is renewable.
Sec. 206. If the judge in any case refuse to allow an
exceptiou in accordance with the facts, the party desiring
the bill settled may apply by petition to the Supreme
Court to prove the same. The application may be made
in the mode and manner and under such regulations as
that court may prescribe, and the bill, when proven,
must be certified by one of the justices of said court as
correct and filed with the clerk of the court in which the
action was tried, and when so filed, it has the same force
and effect as if settled by the judge who tried the cause.
Sec. 207. If the judge who presided at the trial
ceases to hold office before the bill is tendered or settled,
he may nevertheless settle such bill, or the party may, as
provided in the preceding section, apply t» the SupremeCourt to prove the same.
CHAPTER XV.
Ktw Trials.
Sectioh 208. New trial defined.
201). When new trial may be granted.
210. On what papers moved for.
811. Notice of intention, when to bo filea and what to contain :
first— On affidavit*.
Second—On bill of exceptions.
Third—On statement.
Fourth—On minutes of court.
212. What constitutes record to be used on appeal.
213. New trial by order of court, or how reviewed.
214. Motion, when may be heard.
Sec. 2CrS.
issue of fact,
A new trial is a re-examination of an
in the same court, after a trial and decision
by a jury, court or referees.
Sec. 209. The former verdict or other decision may
he vacated, and a new trial granted, on the application of
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes
materially affecting the substantial rights of the party ;
Firxt. irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from
having a fair trial. Second. Misconduct of the jury ;
and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been
induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to
a finding on any question submitted to them by the
court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such
conduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of
the jurors. Third. Accident or surprise, which ordi
nary prudence could not have guarded against. Fourth.
Newly discovered evidence material for the party mak
ing the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
Fifth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice. Sixth. In
sufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or that it is against law. Seventh. Error in
law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application.
Sec. 210. When the application is made for a cause
mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions
of the last section, it must be made upon affida
vits ; for any other cause it may be made, at the option
of the moving party, either iipon the minutes of the
court, or a bill of exception, or a statement of the case
prepared as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 211. The party intending to move for a new
trial must, within ten days after the verdict of the jury,
if the action were tried by a jury, or after notice of the
decision of the court or referee, if the action were tried
without a jury, file with the clerk and serve upon the
adverse party a notice of his intention, designating the
grounds upon which the motion will be made, and
whether the same will be made upon affidavits, or the
minutes of the court, or a bill of exception, or a state
ment of the case.
First—If the motion is to be made upon affidavits,
the moving party must, within ten days after serving
the notice, or such further time as the court in which the
action is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow, file such
affidavits with the clerk and serve a copy upon the adverse
party, who shall have ten days to file counter affidavits,
a copy of which must be served upon the moving party.
Second—If the motion is to be made upon a bill of
exceptions, and no bill has already been settled as herein-before provided, the moving party shall have the same
time after service of the notice to prepare and obtain a
settlement of a bill of exceptions as ie provided after the
entry of judgment, or after receiving notice of such
entry, by section two hundred and four, and the bill
shall be- prepared and settled in a similar manner. If a
bill of exceptions has been already settled and filed
when the notice of motion is given, such bills shall be
used on the motion.
Third—If the motion is to be made on a statement
of the case, the moving party must, within ten days'
after service of the notice, or such further time as the
court in which the action is pending, or the judge thereof,
may allow, prepare a draft of the statement, and
serve the 6ame, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse party.
If such proposed statement be- not agreed to by the ad
verse party, he must, within ten days thereafter, pre
pare amendments thereto, and serve the same, or a copy
thereof, upon the moving party. If the amendments \>e
adopted, the statement shall be amended accordingly,
and then presented to the judge who tried or heard the
cause for settlement, or be delivered to the clerk of thecourt
for the judge. If not adopted, the proposed state
ment and amendments shall, within ten days thereafter,,
be presented by the moving party to the judge, upon
five days' notice to the adverse party, or delivered to the
clerk of the court for the judge, ana thereupon the same
proceedings for the settlement of the statement shall be
taken by the parties, and clerk and judge as are required
for the settlement of bills of exception by section two
hundred and four. If the action was heard by a ref
eree, the same proceedings shall be had for the settle
ment of the statement by him as are required by that section for the settlement of bills of exception by a
referee. If no amendments are served within the time
designated, or, if served and allowed, the proposed state
ment and amendments, if any, may be presented to thejudge
or referee for settlement without .notice to theadverse party. When the notice of the motion desig
nates, as the ground of the motion, the insufficiency of
the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, thestatement
shall specify the particulars in which such evi
dence is alleged to be insufficient. When the notice des
ignates, as the ground of the motion, errors in law occur
ring at the trial, and excepted to by the moving party,
the statement 6hall specify particular errors upon which
the -party will rely. If no such specifications be made,
the statement shall he disregarded on the hearing of the
motion. It is the duty of the judge or referee, in set
tling the statement, to strike out of it all redundant and
useless matter, and to make the statement truly repre
sent the case, notwithstanding the assent of the parties
to 6uch redundant and useless matter, or to any inaccu
rate statement. When settled, the statement shall be
signed by the judge or referee, with his certificate to the
effect that the same is allowed, and shall then be filed
with the clerk.
Fourth—When the motion is to be made upon the
minutes of the court, and the ground of the motion is
the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, the notice of motion must specify the par
ticulars in which the evidence is alleged to be insuf
ficient ; and, if the ground of the motion be errors in
law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
moving party, the notice must specify the particular
errors upon which the party will rely. If the notice do
not contain the specifications here indicated, when the
motion is made on the minutes of the court, the motion
must be denied.
Sec. 212. The judgment roll and the affidavits, or
bill of exceptions, or statement, as the case may be, used
on the hearing, with a copy of the order made, shall
constitute the record to be used on appeal from the order
granting or refusing a new trial, unless the motion be
made on the minutes of the court, and in that case the
judgment roll and a statement to be subsequently pre
pared, with a copy of the order, shall constitute the
record on appeal. Such subsequent statement shall be
proposed by the party appealing, or intending to appeal,
within ten days after the entry of the order, or such
further time as the court in which the action is pending,
or a judge thereof, may allow, and the same, or a copy
thereof, be served upon the adverse party, who shall have
ten days thereafter to prepare amendments thereto and
serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the party appeal
ing, or intending to appeal ; and thereafter proceedings
shall be had, and within like periods, for the settlement
of the statement, as provided by section two hundred
and eleven; but the statement shall only contain the
grounds argued before the court for a new trial, and so
much of the evidence or other matter as may be neces
sary to explain them ; and it shall be the duty of the
judge to exclude all other evidence or matter from the
statement.
Sec. 213. The verdict of a jury may also be vacated*
and a new trial granted by the court in which the action
is pending, on its own motion, without the application of
either of the parties, when there has been such a plain
disregard by the jury of the instructions of the court, or
the evidence in the case, as to satisfy the court that the
verdict was rendered under a misapprehension of such
instructions, or under the influence of passion or preju
dice. The order of the court may be reviewed on appeal
in the same manner as orders made on motion for a new"
trial, and a statement to be used on such appeal may be
prepared in the same maimer as statements after a
motion is heard upon the minutes of the court, as pro
vided in section two hundred and twelve.
Sec. 21J-. When the action is tried by a District
Judge in his district, out of the county of his residence,
the motion for a new trial may, upon the consent of
parties, be brought to a hearing before such judge at
chambers, or in open court, in the county of his resi
dence, or in any other county of his district.
CHAPTER XVI.
The Manner of Giving and Entering Judgment.
Suction 215.
216.
217.
218.
11!).
sew.
2-21.
521.
223.
Judgment to be entered in twenty- four hours.
Case may be brought for argument.
Counter claim exceeding plaintifff's demand.
In replevin judgment to be in the alternative and with damages.
Gold coin or currency Judgment.
Judgment-book,
Judgment after d'jatii.
Judgment-roll, what consttlates.
Judgment roll.
Docket, how kept, and what to contain.
Docket open for inspection.
Transcript filed in any county becomes a lien there.
Sec, 215. When the trial by jury has been had, judgment
shall be entered by the clerk, in conformity to the*
verdict, within twenty-four hours after the rendition of
the verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved
for argument, or further consideration, or grant a stay
of proceedings.
Sec. 216. When the case is reserved for argument
or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section,
it may be brought by either party before the court for
argument.
Seo. 217. If a counterclaim, established at the trial,
exceed the plaintifffs demand, judgment for the defendant
Bhall be given for the excess ; or, if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judg
ment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 218. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for
the possession, or value thereof, in case a delivery cannot
be had, and damages for the detention. If the property
has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may
be for the return of the property, or the value thereof,
in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking
and withholding the same. In an action on a contract
or obligation in writing for the direct payment of money,
made payable in a specified kind of money or currency,
judgment for the plaintifff, whether it be by default or
after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and
be made payable iD the kind of money or currency speci
fied therein ; and in all actions for the recovery of money,
if the plaintifff allege in his complaint that the same was
understood and agreed by the respective parties to be
payable in a specified kind of money or currency, and
this fact is admitted by the default of the defendant or
established by evidence, the judgment for the plaintifff
must be made payable in the kind of money or currency
so alleged in the complaint ; and in an action against
any person for the recovery of money received by such
person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another,
judgment for the plaintifff must be made payable in the
kind of money or currency so received by such person.
Sec. 219. The clerk shall keep among the records of
the court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called
the Judgment Book, in which each judgment shall be
entered, and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or
other determination of the action.
Sec. 220. If a party die after a verdict or decision
upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court
may nevertheless render judgment thereon. Such judg
ment shall not be a lien on the real property of the
deceased party, but shall be payable in the course of ad
ministration on his estate.
Sec. 221. Immediately after entering judgment, the
clerk must attach together and file the following papers,
which constitute the judgment roll : First. In case the
complaint be not answered by any defendant, the sum
mons, with the affidavit or proof of service and the
complaint, with a memorandum endorsed thereon that
the default of the defendant in not answering was en
tered, and a copy of the judgment. Seoond. In all other
cases, the pleadings, a copy of the verdict of the jury, or
finding of the court or referee, and a copy of any order
made on demurrer or relating to a change of parties, and
a copy of the judgment. If there are two or more de
fendants in the action, and any one of them has allowed
judgment to pass against him by default, the summons,
with proof of its service upon such defendant, must also be
added to the other papers mentioned in this subdivision.
Srco. 222. Immediately after the filing of the judg
ment roll, the clerk shall make the proper entries of the
judgment, under appropriate heads, in the docket kept
by him ; and, from the time the judgment is docketed,
it shall become a lien upon all the real property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the
county owned by him at the time, or which he may after
wards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien
shall continue for two years, unless the judgment be
previously satisfied.
Sec. 223. The docket mentioned in the last section is a
book which the clerk shall keep in his office, with each
Jage divided into eight columns, and headed as follows :
udgment Debtors ; Judgment Creditors ; Judg
ment ; Time of Entry ; "Where Entered in Judgment
Book; Appeals—When Taken; Judgment of Ap
pellate Court; Satisfaction of Judgment, when En
tered. If judgment be for the recovery of money or
damages, the amount shall be stated in the docket under
the head of Judgment ; if the judgment be for any
other relief, a memorandum of the general character of
the relief granted shall be stated. The names of the
defendants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical
order.
Sec. 224. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open
at all times, during office hours, for the inspection of the
public, without charge ; and it shall be the duty of the
clerk to arrange the several dockets kept by him in such
a manner as to facilitate their inspection.
Sec. 225. A transcript of the original docket, certi
fied by the clerk, may be filed with the Recorder of any
other county ; and, from the time of the filing, the judg
ment shall become a lien upon all the real property of
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in
such county owned by him at the time, or which he may
afterwards acquire, until the said lien expires. The lien
6hall continue for two years, unless the judgment be pre
viously satisfied.
Sec. 226. The party in whose favor the judgment ig
given may, at any time within five years from the entry
thereof, issue a writ of execution for its enforcement, as
prescribed in this chapter of this act.
Sec. 227. The writ of execution shall be issued in
the name of the people of the United States in the Ter
ritory of Idaho, sealed with the seal of the court, and
subscribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the
sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment,
6tating the court, the county where the judgment roll is
filed, and, if it be for money, the amount thereof, and
the amount actually due thereon, and if made payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, as provided
in section two hundred and eighteen, the execution
6hall also state the kind of money or currency in which
the judgment is payable, and shall require the sheriff
substantially as follows :
First—If it be against the property of the judgment
debtor, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judg
ment, with interest, out of the personal property of such
debtor ; and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of his real property ; or if the judg
ment be a lien upon real property, then out of the real
property belonging to him on the day when the judg
ment was docketed, or, if the execution be issued to a
county other than the one in which the judgment was
recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the office of the recorder of such county,
. stating such day or any time thereafter.
Second—If it be against real or personal property in
the hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees,
legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
out of such property.
Third—If it be against the person of the judgment
debtor, it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor
and commit him to the jail of the county until he pays
the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according
to law.
Fourth—If it be issued on a judgment made payable
in a specified kind of currency, as provided in section
two hundred and eighteen of this act, it shall also require
the sheriff to satisfy the same in the kind of money or
currency in which said judgment is made payable, and
the sheriff shall refuse payment in any other kind of
money or currency ; and in case of levy and sale of the
property of the judgment debtor, he shall refuse pay
ment from any purchaser at snch sale in any other kind
of money or currency than that specified in the execu
tion. The sheriff collecting money or currency in the
manner required by this act shall pay to the plaintifff, or
party entitled to recover the same, the same kind of
money or currency received by him, and in case of
neglect or refusal so to do, he shall be liable, on his
official bond, to the judgment creditor in three times the
amount of the money so collected.
Fifth—If it be for the delivery of the possession of
real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to
deliver the possession oil the same, particularly describing
it, to the party entitled thereto ; and may, at the same
time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
rents or profits recovered by the same judgment out of
the personal property of the person against whom it was
rendered, and the value of the property for which the
judgment was rendered to be specified therein if a
delivery thereof cannot be had ; and if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, then out of the real
property, as provided in the first subdivision of this section.
Sec. 228. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
in the clerk's docket upon an execution returned satis
fied, or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed
with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowledg
ment of a conveyance of real property, by the judgment
creditor ; or by his endorsement on the face or on the
margin of the record of the judgment ; or by the attor
ney, unless a revocation of his authority be previously
filed. "Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in fact,
otherwise than upon an execution, it shall be the duty of
the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment, or
make such endorsement, and, upon motion, the court
may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to
be made without it.
Sec. 229. When a writ of execution is issued on a
judgment recovered against two or more persons in an
action upon a joint contract, in which action all the de
fendants were not served with summons, or did not
appear, it shall direct the sheriff to satisfy the judgment
out of the joint property of all the defendants, and the
individual property only of the defendants who were
served or who appeared in the action. In other respects
the writ shall contain the directions specified in subdivisions one and four of section two hundred and
twenty seven.
Sec. 230. The execution may be made returnable at
any time, not less than ten nor more than sixty days,
after its receipt by the sheriff to the clerk with whom
the judgment roll is filed. When the execution shall
have been returned, it sliall be the duty of the clerk to
attach the same to the judgment roll. If any real estate
be levied upon, the clerk shall record the execution and
the return thereto at large, and certify the same, under
his hand, as true copies, in a book to be called the
" Execution Book," which book shall be indexed with
the names of plaintifffs and defendants in execution,
alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times
during office hours for the inspection of the public, with
out charge, and shall be evidence of the contents of the
originals whenever they, or any part thereof, may be
destroyed, lost or mutilated.
Sec. 231. Where the judgment requires the payment
of money or the delivery of real or personal property,
the same may be enforced by a writ of execution ; when
it requires the performance of any other act, a certified
copy of the judgment may be served upon the party
against whom the same is rendered or upon the person
or officer required thereby or by law to obey the same.
Obedience thereto may be enforced by the court ; and
after a final judgment of partition, the court shall have
power to enfore a severance of the possession.
Sec. 232. In all cases other than for the recovery of
money the judgment may be enforced or carried into
execution after the lapse of five years from the date of
its entry, by leave of the court, upon motion, or by
judgment for that purpose founded on supplemental
pleadings.
Sec. 233. Notwithstanding the death of a party after
the judgment, execution thereon may be issued, in case
of the death of the plaintifff, the same as if he were
living, upon the application of his executor or adminis
trator, or successor in interest, by the court in which the
judgment was rendered or exists. And in case of the
decease of the defendant, if the judgment be for the re
covery of real or personal property, execution may be
issued and executed against the property recovered in the
same manner and with the same effect as if he were still
living.
Sec. 234. Where the execution is against the prop
erty of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the
sheriff of any county in the Territory. Where it requires
the delivery of real or personal property, it shall be issued
to the sheriff of the county where the property, or some
part thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at
the same time to different counties.
Seo. 235. All goods, chattels, monies, and other
property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, and all property and rights of property
seized and held under attachment in the action shall be
liable to execution. Until a levy, property shall not be
affected by the execution. Shares and interests in any
corporation or company and other debts and credits, and
other property not capable of manual delivery, may be
attached on execution in like manner as upon writs of
attachment. Gold dust and gold and silver bullion shall
be returned by the officer as so much money collected at
it its current value, without exposing the same to sale.
Sec. 236. All real and personal estate belonging to
any married woman at the time of her marriage, and
all which she may have acquired subsequently to such
marriage, or to which she shall afterward become entitled
in her own right, and all her personal earnings, and all the
issues, rents and profits of such real estate, shall not be
liable to attachment for execution upon any liability or
judgment against the husband, so Jong as she or any
minor child of her body shall be living ; provided, that
her separate property shall be liable for debts owing by
her at the time of her marriage.
Sec. 237. The following property shall bo exempt
from execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided
:
First—Chairs, tables, desks and books, to the value of
one hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor.
Second—Necessary household, table and kitchen fur
niture belonging to the judgment debtor, including stove,
stovepipe and stove furniture of whatever kind, wearing
apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, and provisions
actually provided for individual or family use sufficient
for three months.
Third—The farming utensils or implements of hus
bandry of the judgment debtor ; also, two oxen, or two
horses, or two mules, and their harness; two cows, one
cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses, cows, or
mules, for three months; also, all seed grain or vege
tables actually provided, reserved, or on hand for the
purpose of planting or sowing at any time within the
ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the sum of
two hundred dollars; the tools and implements of a
mechanic necessary to carry on his trade; the instru
ments and chests of a surgeon, pliysician, surveyor, and
dentist necessary to the exercise of their profession, with
the professional library ; and the law libraries of an
attorney and counsellor ; also, the wardrobe and books
of an actor.
Fourth—The tents and furniture, including a table,
camp-stools, bed and bedding of a miner ; also his rocker,
shovels, spades, wheelbarrows, pumps, and other instru
ments used in mining, with provisions necessary for his
support for three month.
Fifth—Two oxen, twd horses, or two mules, and their
harness, and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a
cartman, teamster, or other laborer, habitually earns his
living, and the food for such oxen, horses, or mules, for
three months ; and a horse used by a physician in mak
ing his professional visits.
Sixth—All fire engines, with carts, buckets, hose, and
apparatus thereto appertaining, of any fire company or
department organized under any law of this Territory.
Seventh—All arms and accoutrements required by law
to be kept by any person. But no article mentioned in
this section shall be exempt from execution issued upon
a judgment recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage
thereon.
Eighth —All court houses, jails, public offices and build
ings, lots, ground and personal property, the fixtures,
furniture, books, papers, and appurtenances belonging
and pertaining to the court house, jail and public offices,
belonging to any county in this Territory ; and all
cemeteries, public squares, parks and public build
ings, town halls, markets, buildings appertaining to
the fire departments, and the lots and grounds thereto
belonging and appertaining, owned or held by any town
or incorporated city, or dedicated by such town or city
to health, ornament, or public use.
Sec. 238. Any single man, or married man (his wife
joining him in the waiver), may waive the benefit, if
they act by an agreement in writing, to be witnessed
and acknowledged in the manner required in a deed con
veying real estate.
Sec. 239. In all cases the defendant himself may
select the property which is exempt.
Sec. 240. If the property levied on be claimed by a
third person as his property, the sheriff shall summon
from his county six persons, qualified as jurors, between
the parties, to try the validity of the claim. He shall
also give notice of the claim, and of the time of trial, to
the plaintifff, who may appear and contest the claim
before the jury. The jury and the witnesses shall be
sworn by the sheriff, and it their verdict be in favor of
the claimant, the sheriff shall relinquish the levy, unless
the judgment creditor give him a sufficient indemnity
for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the sheriff
and the witnesses shall be paid by the claimant, if the
verdict be against him ; otherwise, by the plaintifff. On
the trial the defendant and the claimant may be exam
ined by the plaintifff as witnesses.
Sec. 241. The sheriff shall execute the writ against
the property of the judgment debtor by levying on a
sufficient amount of property, if there be sufficient ; col
lecting or selling the things in action, and selling the
other property, and paying to the plaintifff, or his
attorney, 60 much of the proceeds as will satisfy the
judgment, or depositing the amount with the clerk of
the court. Any excess of the proceeds over the judg
ment and the sheriffs fees shall be returned to the judg
ment debtor. "When there is more property of the
judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfy the judg
ment and the sheriffs fees, within the view of the sheriff,
he 6hall levy only on such part of the property as the
judgment debtor may indicate ; provided, that the judg
ment debtor be present and indicate at the time of the
levy such part ; and provided, that the property indi
cated be amply sufficient to satisfy such judgment and fees.
Sec. 242. Before the sale of property on execution
notice thereof shall be given as follows :
First—In case of perishable property, by posting
written notices of the time and place of sale in three
public places of the precinct, township or city where the
sale is to take place, for such time as may be reasonable,
considering the character and condition of the property.
Second—In case of other personal property, by posting
similar notices in three public places in the precinct,
township or city where the sale is to take place not less
than five nor more than ten days successively.
Third—In case of real property, by posting similar
notices, particularly describing the property, for twenty
days successively, in three public places of the precinct,
township or city where the property is situated and also
where the property is to be sold, and publish a copy
thereof once a week for the same period in some news
paper published in tha county, if there be one.
Fourth—When the judgment under which the prop
erty is sold is made payable in a specified kind of money
or currency, the several notices required by this section
shall 6tate the kind of money or currency in which bids
may be made at such sale, which shall be the same as
that specified in the judgment.
Sec. 243. An officer selling without the notice pre
scribed by the last section shall forfeit five hundred
dollars to the aggrieved party in addition to his actual
damages ; and a person willfully taking down or defacing
a notice posted, if done before the sale or satisfaction of
the judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before the
Bale), shall forfeit five hundred dollars.
Sec. 244. All sales of property under execution shall
be made at auction to the highest bidder, and shall be
made between the hours of nine in the morning and five
in the afternoon. After sufficient property has been
sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold.
Neither the officer holding the execution nor his deputy
shall become a purchaser at such sale. When the sale is
of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it shall
be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold
in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest prices ;
and when the sale is of real property, and consists ©f
several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold sepa
rately; or when a portion of such real property is
claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold
separately, such portion shall be thus sold. The judg
ment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold,
when such property consists of several known lots or
parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advantage
separately ; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow such
directions.
Sec. 245. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount
bid by him for property struck off to him at a sale under
execution, the officer may again sell the property, at any
time, to the highest bidder; and if any loss be occasioned
thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such loss,
with costs, by motion, upon previous notice of five days
before any court, or before any justice of the peace, if
the same shall not exceed his jurisdiction.
Sec. 246. Such court or justice shall proceed, in a
summary manner, to give judgment and issue execution
therefore forthwith ; but the defendant may claim a jury.
And the same proceeding may be had against any sub
sequent purchaser who may refuse to pay ; and the
officer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject the bid of
any person so refusing. .
Sec. 247. The two preceding sections shall not be
construed to make the officer liable for any more than the
amount bid by the second or subsequent purchasers and
the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pay.
Sec. 248. When the purchaser of any personal prop
erty, capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase
money, the officer making the sale shall deliver to the
purchaser the property, and, if desired, shall execute and
deliver to him a certificate of the sale and payment.
Such certificate 6hall convey to the purchaser all the
right, title and interest which the debtor had in and to
such property on the day the execution was levied.
Sec. 249. When the purchaser of any personal prop
erty not capable of manual delivery shall pay the pur
chase money, the officer making the sale shall execute
and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale and pay
ment. Such certificate shall convey to the purchaser all
right, title and interest which the debtor had in and to
such property on the day the execution was levied.
Sec. 250. Upon n sale of real property, the purchaser
shall be substituted to, and acquire all the right, title,
interest and claim of the judgment debtor thereto ; and
when the estate is less than a leasehold of two years' un
expired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all other
cases the property shall be subject to redemption, as pro
vided in this chapter. The officer shall give to the purchachaser
a certificate of sale, containing—First, a par
ticular description of the real property sold ; second, the
price bid for each distinct lot or parcel ; third, the whole
price paid ; fourth, when subject to redemption, it shall
be so stated. And when the judgment under which the
sale has been made is made payable in a specified kind
of money or currency, the certificate shall also state the
kind of money or currency in which such redemption
may be made, and which shall be the same as that speci
fied in the judgment. A duplicate of such certificate
shall be filed in the office of the recorder of the county.
Sec. 251. Property sold subject to redemption, as
provided in the last section, or .any part sold separately,
may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided,
by the following persons, or their successors in interest :
First. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest,
in the whole or any part of the property. Second. A
creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
property sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this section are in this act termed
" redemptioners."
Sec. 252. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner,
may redeem the property from the purchaser within six
months after the sale on paying the purchaser the
amount of his purchase, with eighteen per cent, thereon
in addition, together with the amount of any assessments
or taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon ;
and if the purchaser be also a creditor, having a lien
prior to that of the redemptioner other than the judg
ment under which the purchase was made, the amount
of such lien, with interest.
Sec. 253. If the property be so redeemed by a re
demptioner, either the judgment debtor or another re
demptioner may, within sixty days after the last redemp
tion, again redeem it from the last redemptioner on
paying the sum paid on such last redemption, with four
per cent, thereon in addition, and the amount of any
assessments or taxes which the said last redemptioner
may have paid thereon after the redemption by him,
with interest on such amount, and the amount of any
liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own,
with interest in addition ; provided, that the judgmens
under which the property was sold need not be paid at
a lien. The property may be again redeemed, and as
often as the debtor or a redemptioner, within sixty days
after the last redemption, pay the amount of the last re
demption, with four per cent, thereon in addition, and
the amount of any assessments or taxes which the said
last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by
him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any liens
other than the judgment under which the property was
sold, held by the said last redemptioner previous to his
own. with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given
to the sheriff. If no redemption be made within six
months after sale, the purchaser or his assignee, sliall be
entitled to a conveyance ; or if so redeemed whenever
sixty days have expired, and no other redemption has
been made, and notice thereof given, the time for re
demption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner,
or his assignee, be entitled to a sheriffs deed. If the
debtor redeem at any time before the time for redemp
tion expires, the effect of the sale shall be terminated,
and he be restored to his estate.
Sec. 254. The payments mentioned in the last two sections may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner,
as the case may be, or for him, to the officer who made
the sale. "When the judgment under which the sale has
been made is payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, said payments shall be made in the same kind
of money or currency, and a tender of the money shall
be equivalent to payment.
Sec. 255. A redemptioner shall produce to the
officer, or person from whom he 6eeks to redeem, and
serve with nis notice to the sheriff—First, a copy of the
docket of the judgment under which he claims the right
to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court, or of the
county, where the judgment is docketed ; or, if he re
deem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record
thereof, certified by the recorder ; second, a copy of any
assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified by
the affidavit of himself, or of a subscribing witness
thereto ; and, third, an affidavit by himself, or his agent,
showing the amount then actually due on the lien.
Sec. 256. Until the expiration of the time allowed
for redemption, the court may restrain the commission
of any waste on the property, by order granted, with or
without notice, on the application of the purchaser or the
judgment creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste
for the person in possession of the property at the time
of Bale, or entitled to possession afterward during
the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it
in the same manner in which it was previously used, or
to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry, or to
make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to
use wood or timber on the property therefore, or for the
repair of feiices, or for fuel in his family, while he occu
pies the property.
Sec. 257. The purchaser, from the time of the sale
until a redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time
of his redemption until another redemption, shall be entitled to receive from the tenant in possession the rents,
issues and profits of the property sold, or the value of
the use and occupation thereof ; provided, that in the
case the property shall be redeemed as provided in this
act, the amount of such rents and profits which he may
have been entitled to claim or receive, unless such claim
shall be re-leased to the person claiming such right of
redemption, shall be deducted from the amount which
such purchaser or redemptioner would be entitled to
receive on such redemption.
Sec. 258. If the purchaser of the real property sold
on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicted
therefrom in consequence of irregularity in the proceed
ings concerning the sale or of the removal or discharge
of the judgment, he may recover the price paid, with
interest, from the judgment creditor. If the purchaser
of property at a sheriff's sale, or his successor in interest,
fail to recover possession in consequence of irregularity
in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because the
property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
party in interest, or his attorneys, revive the original judg
ment for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale,
with interest thereon, from the time of payment, at the
same rate that the original judgment bore; and when so
revived, the said judgment shall have the same effect as
the original judgment of said court, of that date, and
bearing interest as aforesaid ; and any other or after
acquired property, rents, issues or profits of the said
debtor shall be liable to levy and sale under execu
tion in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no
property of such debtor sold, bona Jlde, before the fifing
of such petition shall be subject to the lien of such judg
ment ; and provided further, that notice of the filing of
such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in
the recorder's office of the county where such property
may be situated, and that said judgment shall be revived
in the name of the original plaintifff, or plaintifffs, for the
use of said petitioner, the party in interest. All sales
ordered by the court shall be conducted in" the same
manner as sales upon execution.
CHAPTEK XVIIL
Proceedings Supplementary to the Execution*
SECTION 559.
260.
861.
262.
263.
264.
266.
Debtor required to answer concerning his property.
Proceedings to compel debtor to appear ; in *rnat cases h«
may be arrested : what bail may be given.
Any debtor may satisfy execution.
Examination of debto* and other persons.
Witness reqnlred to testify. ,
Property applied on execution.
Proceedings npon claim of another, or on denial of Indebted
nessi
Disobedience how punished.
SecJw 259. When an execution against property of
the judgment debtor or of any one of seyeral debtors in
the same judgment issued to the sheriff of the county
where he resides, or, if he do not reside in this Territory,
to the sheriff of the county where the judgment roll is
filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the
judgment creditor, at any time after such return is made,
is entitled to an order from the judge of the court, or a
probate judge, requiring such judgment debtor to appear
and answer concerning his property before such judge,
or a referee appointed by him, at a time and place speci
fied in the order; but no judgment debtor must be re
quired to attend before a judge or referee out of the
county in which he resides.
Sec. 260. After the issuing of an execution against
property, and upon proof by affidavit of a party, or other
wise, to the satisfaction of the court, or of a judge
thereof, or a probate judge, that any judgment debtor
has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge
may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear
at a specified time and place before such judge, or a
referee appointed by him, to answer concerning the same :
and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the appli
cation of the property of the judgment debtor toward
the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon
the return of an execution. Instead of the order requir
ing the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge
may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent
or attorney, if it appear to him that there is danger of the
debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest the debtor
and bring him before such judge. Upon being brought
before the judge, he may be ordered to enter into an
undertaking, with sufficient security, that he will attend,
from time to time, before the judge, or referee, as shall
be directed during the pendency of proceedings, and
until the final determination thereof, and will not in the
meantime dispose of any portion of the property not
exempt from execution. In default of entering into such
undertaking, he may be committed to prison.
Sec. 261. After the issuing of an execution against
property, and before its return, any person indebted to
the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a
sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
Sec. 262. After the issuing or return of an execu
tion against property of a judgment debtor, or of any
one of several debtors in the 6ame judgment, or upon
proof by affidavit, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
judge, that any person or corporation has property of
such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an
amount exceeding fifty dollars, the judge may, bv an
order, require such person or corporation, or any officer
or member thereof, to appear, at a specified time and
place, before him, or a referee appointed by him, and
answer concerning the same.
Sec. 263. Witnesses may be required to appear and
testify before the judge, or referee, upon any proceed
ings under this act m the same manner as upon the trial
of an issue.
Sec. 264. The judge or referee may order any prop
erty of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution
in the hands of such debtor, or any other person, or due
to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satis
faction of the judgment.
Sec. 265. If it appears that a person or corporation
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or to
be indebted to nim, claims an interest in the property
adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or judge
may authorize, by an order made to that effect, the
judgment creditor to institute a suit against such person
or corporation for the recovery of such interest or debt ;
and the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or
other disposition of such interest or debt until an action
can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such
order may be modified or vacated by a judge granting
the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at
any time, upon such terms as may be just.
'Sec. 266. If any person, party or witness disobey an
order of the referee, properly made, in the proceedings
before him under this act, he may be punished by the
court or judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.
CHAPTER XIX.
Action for. the Foreclosure of Mortgages.
Section 267. Proceedings In foreclosure salts.
268. Surplus money.
£69. Proceedings when debt secared falls dns at different times.
270. Nuisance defined and actions for.
271. Waste, actions for.
272. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees ; actionB for.
273. Measure of damages.
274. Damages In forcible entry, etc.
275. Actions to quiet title.
276. When plaintifff cannot recoTer costs.
277. Title terminating ; what the verdict and judgment.
278. Value of improvements allowed as a set off.
270. Order to survey and measure the land In dispute.
280. Order, what to contain and how served.
281. Mortgage not a conveyance.
282. Injunction during foreclosure.
283. Damages for injury to the possession.
284. Action not prejudiced by alienation.
285. Mining claims, local roles govern.
Sec. 267. There can be but one action for the
recovery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right
secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal prop
erty, which action must be in accordance with the pro
visions of this act. In such action the court may, by its
judgment, direct a sale of the encumbered property, or
so much thereof as may be necessary, and the application
of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs
of the court and the expenses of the sale, and the amount
due to the plaintifff ; and if it appear from the sheriffs
return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a balance
still remains due, judgment can then be docketed for
such balance against the defendant or defendants per
sonally for the debt, and it becomes a lien on the real
estate of such judgment debtor, as in other cases on
which execution may be issued. No person holding a
conveyance from or under the mortgagor of the property
mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance
or lien does not appear of record in the proper office at
the time of the commencement of the action, need be
made a party to such action ; and the judgment therein
rendered and the proceedings therein had are as conclu
sive against the party holding such unrecorded convey
ance or lien as if he had been made a party to the action.
Sec. 268. If there be surplus money remaining after
payment of the amount due on the mortgage, Men, or
encumbrance, with costs, the court may cause the same
to be paid to the person entitled to it, and in the mean
time may direct it to be deposited in court.
Sec. 269. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien
or encumbrance is held be not all due, so soon as sufficient of the property has been sold to pay the amount
due, with cost, the sale shall cease ; and afterwards, as
often as more becomes due for principal or interest, the
court may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the
property cannot be sold in portions without injury to the
parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first
instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there being
a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.
Actions for Nuisance, Waste and Wilful Trespass
in Certain Cage* on Real Property.
Sec. 270. Anything that is injurious to health, or
indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the com
fortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance and
the subject of an action. Such action may be brought
by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or
whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance ;
and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or
abated, as well as damages recovered.
Sec. 271. If a guardian, tenant for life or years,
joint tenant, or tenant in common of real property, cominit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste
may bring an action against him therefore, in which
action there may be judgment for treble damages.
Sec. 272. Any person who shall cut down or carry
off any wood or underwood, tree or timber, or girdle or
otherwise injure any tree or timber on the land of an
other person, or on the street or highway in front of any
person's house, village or city lot, or cultivated grounds,
or on the commons, or public grounds of any city or
town, or on the street or highway in front thereof, with
out lawful authority, shall be liable to the ow»er of such
land, or to such city or town, for treble the amount of
damages which may be assessed therefore in a civil action
in any court having jurisdiction.
Sec. 273. Nothing in the last section shall authorize
the recovery of more than the just value of timber
taken from uncultivated wood land for the repair of the
public highway or bridges upon the land or adjoining it.
Sec. 274. If a person recover damages for a forcible
or unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of, any build
ing, or any cultivated real property, judgment may be
entered for three times the amount at which the actual
damages are assessed.
Actions to Determine Conflicting Claims to Real
Property, and Other Provisions relating to Actions Concern
ing Real EUtate.
Sec. 275. An action may be brought by any person
against another who claims an estate or interest in real
property adverse to him for the purpose of determining
such adverse claim.
Sec. 276. If the defendant in such action disclaim in
his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer
judgment to be taken against him without answer, the
plaintifff shall not recover costs.
Sec. 277. In an action for the recovery of real prop
erty, when the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the
time the action was commenced, but it appears that hisright
has terminated during the pendency of the action,
the verdict and judgment shall be according to the fact,
and the plaintifff may recover damages for withholding
the property.
Sec. 278. "WTien damages are claimed for withhold
ing the property recovered, upon which permanent im
provements have been made by a defendant, or those
under whom he claims holding under color of title, ad
versely to the claims of the plaintifff, in good faith, the
value of such improvements shall be allowed as a set-off
against such damages.
Sec. 279. The court in which an action is pending
for the recovery of real property, or for damages for an
injury thereto, may, on motion, upon notice, by either
party, for good cause shown, grant an order allowing
to such party the right to enter upon the property, and
make survey and measurement thereof, and of any tun
nels, shafts or drifts thereon, for the purpose of the
action, even though entry for such purpose has to be
made through other lands belonging to parties to the
action.
Sec. 280. The order shall describe the property, and
a copy thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant ;
and thereupon such party may enter upon the property,
■frith necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such
survey and measurements ; but if any unnecessary injury
be done to the property, he shall be liable therefore.
Sec. 281. A mortgage of real property shall not be
deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable
the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the
real property without a foreclosure and sale.
Sec. 282. The court may, by injunction, on good
cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing
any act to the injary of real property during the fore
closure of a mortgage thereon, or after a sale on execu
tion, before a conveyance.
Sec. 283. When real property shall have been sold
on execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who
may have succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate
becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to the
property by the tenant in possession after sale and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance.
Sec. 284. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession cannot be prejudiced
by an alienation made by such person, either before or
after the commencement of the action.
Sec. 285. In actions respecting mining claims proof
must be admitted of the customs, usages or regulations
established Jand in force at the bar, diggings, or in the
district embracing such claims ; and such customs,
usages and regulations, when not in conflict with the
laws of this Territory, must govern the decision of the
action.
Seo. 286. When several co-tenants hold and are in
possession of real property, parceners, or joint tenants
in common, in which one or more of them have an
estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years, an
action may be brought by one or more such persons for
a partition thereof, according to the respective rights of
the persons interested therein ; and for a sale of such
property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.
Sec. 287. The interests of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set
forth in the complaint, specifically and particularly, as
far as known to the plaintifff ; and if one or more of the
parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or
contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend
upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a contin
gent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named,
that fact shall he set forth in the complaint.
Sec. 288. No persons who have or claim any liens
upon the property, by mortgage, judgment, or other
wise, need be made parties to the action, unless such
liens be matters of record.
Sec. 289. Immediately after filing the complaint the
plaintifff shall record in the office of the recorder of the
county, or of the several counties, in which the property
is situated a notice of the pendency of the action, con
taining the names of the parties, so far as known, the
object of the action, and a description of the property to
be affected thereby. From the time of the filing it
shall be deemed notice to all persons.
Sec. 290. The summons shall be directed to all the
{'oint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons
laving any interest in or any liens of record, by mort
gage, judgment, or otherwise, upon the property, or
upon any particular portion thereof, and generally to all
persons unknown who have or claim auy interest in the
property.
Sec. 291. If a party having a share or interest is un
known, or any one of the known parties reside out of the
Territory or cannot be found therein, and such fact is
made to appear by affidavit, the summons may be served
on such absent or unknown party by publication, as in
other cases. When publication is made, the summons
as published shall be accompanied by a brief description
of the property which is the subject of the action.
Sec. 292. The defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a certified copy of the
complaint, or who have appeared without such service,
shall set forth in their answers, fully and particularly,
the origin, nature and extent of their respective inter
ests in the property ; and if such defendants claim a lien
upon the property, by mortgage, judgment or otherwise,
they shall state the original amount and date of the same,
and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether
the amount has been secured in any way or not, and,
if secured, the extent and nature of the security, or
they shall be deemed to have waived their right to such
lien.
Sec. 293. The rights of several parties, plaintifff as
well as defendants, may be put in issue, tried and deter
mined in such action ; and when a sale of the premises
is necessary, the title shall be ascertained by proof to the
satisfaction of the court before the judgment of sale
shall be made ; and when service of the complaint has
been made by publication, like proof shall be required of
the right of the absent or unknown parties before such
judgment is rendered, except that, where there are sev
eral unknown persons having an interest in the prop
erty, their rights may be considered together in the
action, and as between themselves.
Seo. 294. Whenever from any cause it is, in the
opinion of the court, impracticable or highly inconve
nient to make a complete partition, in the first instance,
among all the parties in interest, it shall be lawful for
the court to first ascertain and determine the share or
interest respectively held by the original co-tenants, and
thereupon to adjudge and cause a partition to be made
as if such original co-tenants were the parties, and sole
parties in interest, and the only parties to the action, and
thereafter to proceed in like manner to adjudge and
make partition separately of each share, or portion so
ascertained and allotted, as between those claiming under
the original tenant, to whom the same shall have been
so set apart, or allow them to remain tenants in common
thereof, as thev may desire.
Sec. 295. If it appear to the court, by the certifi
cate of the county recorder, or by the sworn or verified
statement of any person who may have examined and
searched the records, that there are outstanding liens or
encumbrances of record upon such real property, or any
part or portion thereof, which existed ana were of record
at the time of the commencement of the action, and the
persons holding such liens are not made parties to the
action, the court must either order such persons to be
made parties to the action, by an amendment or supple
mental complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been
paid, or, if not paid, what amount remains due thereon,
and their order among the liens or encumbrances sev
erally held by such persons and the parties to the action,
and whether the amount remaining due thereon has
been secured in any manner, and, if secured, the nature
and extent of the security.
Sec. 296. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be
served, a reasonable time previous to the day for appear
ance before the referee appointed, as provided in the
last section, on each person having outstanding hens of
record who is not a party to the record, and is not a
party to the action, to appear before the referee at a
specified time and place, to make proof by his own affi
davit or otherwise of the true amount due, or to become
due, contingently or absolutely, thereon. In case such
person be absent, or bis residence be unknown, service
may be made by publication, or notice to bis agent,
under the direction of the court, in 6uch manner as may
be proper. The report of the referee thereon shall be
made to the court, and shall be confirmed, modified or
set aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice o£
the case may require.
Sec. 297. If it be alleged in the complaint and estab
lished by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence with
out such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction
of the court, that the property, or any part of it, is so
situated tliat partition cannot be made without great prej
udice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof.
Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall
order a partition, according to the respective rights of
the parties, as ascertained by the court, and appoint ref
erees therefore ; and shall designate the portion to remain
undivided for the owners whose interests remain un
known or are not ascertained.
Sec. 298. In making the partition the referee shall
divide the property and allot the several portions thereof
to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively
considered, according to the respective rights of the
parties, pursuant to the provisions of this act, designating
the several portions by proper land marks, and may
employ a surveyor, with the necessary assistants, to aid
therein.
Sec. 299. The referees shall make a report of their
proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing
their trust, describing the property divided, and the
shares allotted to each party, with a particular descrip
tion of each share.
Sec. 300. The court may confirm, change, modify or
set aside the report, and, if necessary, appoint new ref
erees. Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall
be rendered ihat such partition be effectual forever,
which judgment shall be binding and conclusive—First,
on all persons named as parties to the action and their
legal representatives, who have at the time any interest
in the property divided, or any part thereof, as owners
in fee, or as tenants for life, or for years ; or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such
property, or any part thereof, after the termination of a
particular estate therein, and who by any contingency
may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property,
or who have an interest in any undivided share thereof,
as tenants for years or for life ; second, on all persons
interested in the property who may be unknown to whom
notice shall have been given of the action for partition
by publication ; and, third, on all other persons claiming
from such parties or persons, or either of them. And
no judgment is invalidated by reason of the death of any
party before final judgment or decree, but such judg
ment or decree is as conclusive against the heirs, legal
representatives or assigns of such decedent as if it had
been entered before his death.
Sec. 301. But such judgment and partition shall not
affect tenants for years less than ten to the whole of the
property which is the subject of the partition.
Sec. 302. The expenses of the referees, including
those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed,
shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the
amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by the
court to the referees, shall be apportioned among the
different parties to the action equitably.
Sec. 303. When a hen is on an undivided interest or
estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be
made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share
assigned to such party; but such share shall be first
charged with its just proportion of the costs of the par
tition in preference to such Hen.
Sec. 304. When a part of the property only is
ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for hie or years
in an undivided share of the whole property, such estate
may be set off in any part of the property not ordered
to be sold.
Sec. 305. The proceeds of the sale of the encum
bered property shall be applied, under the direction of
the court, as follows : First. To pay its just proportion
of the general costs of the action. Second. To pay the
cost of the reference. Third. To satisfy and cancel of
record the several liens, iri their order of priority, by
payment of the sums due and to become due, the amount
due to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment.
Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property
sold, according to their respective shares therein.
Sec. 306. Whenever any party to an action who
holds a lien upon the property, or any part thereof, has
other securities for the payment of the amount of such
lien, the court may, in its discretion, order such securi
ties to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds
of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from
the amount of the lien on the property, on account
thereof.
Sec. 307. The proceeds of sale and the securities
taken by the referees, or any part thereof, shall be dis
tributed by them to the persons entitled thereto ■when
ever the court so directs. But in case no direction be
given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into
court, or deposited therein, as directed by the court.
Sec. 308. When the proceeds of sale of any share or
parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action,
and who are known, are paid into court, the action may
be continued, as between such parties, for the determi
nation of their respective claims thereto, which shall be
ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testi
mony may be taken in court, or by a referee, at the dis
cretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary,
require such parties to present the facts or law in con
troversy, by pleadings, as in an original action.
Sec. 309. All sales of real property made by ref
erees under this chapter shall be made by public auction
to the highest bidder, upon notice published in the
manner required for the sale of real property on execu
tion. The notice shall state the terms of sale, and, if the
property, or any part of it, is to be sold, subject to a prior
estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated in the notice.
Sec. 310. The court shall, in the order for sale,
direct the terms of credit which may be allowed for the
purchase-money of any portion of the premises of which
it may direct a sale or credit, and for that portion of
which the purchase-money is required by the provisions
hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of
unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the Territory.
Sec. 311. The referees may take separate mortgages
and other securities for the whole or convenient portion
of the purchase-money of such parts of the property as
are directed by the court to be sold on credit for the
shares of any known owner, of full age, in the name of
such owner ; and for the shares of an infant, in the name
of the guardian of such infant ; and for other shares, in
the name of the clerk of the court and his successors in
office.
Sec. 312. The person entitled to a tenancy for life
or years whose estate shall have been sold shall be entitled to receive such sum as may be deemed a reason
able satisfaction for such estate, and which the person so
entitled may consent to accept instead thereof, by an in
strument in writing, filed with the clerk of the court.
Upon the filing of such consent, the clerk shall enter the
same in the minutes of the court.
Sec. 313. If such consent be not given, filed and
entered, as provided in the last section, at or before a
judgment of sale is rendered, the court shall ascertain
and determine what portion of the proceeds of the sale,
after deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable
sum to be allowed on account of such estate, and shall
order the same to be paid to such party or deposited in
court for him, as the case may require.
Sec. 314. If the person entitled to such estate for
life or years be unknown, the court shall provide for the
protection of their rights in the same manner, as far as
may be, as if they were known and had appeared.
Sec. 315. In all cases of sale, when it appears that
any person has a vested or a contingent future right or
estate in any of the property sold, the court shall ascer
tain and settle the proportional value of 6uch contingent
or vested right or estate, and shall direct such propor
tion of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured
or paid over in such manner as to protect the rights and
interests of the parties.
Sec. 316. In all cases of sales of property, the terms
shall be made known at the time ; and if the premises con
sist of distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.
Sec. 317. Neither of the referees, nor any person for
the benefit of either of them, shall be interested in any
purchase, nor shall a guardian of an infant party be inter
ested in the purchase of any real property being the subject
of the action, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be void.
Sec. 318. After completing a sale of the property,
or any part thereof, ordered to be sold, the referees shall
report the same to the court, with a description of the
different parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name
of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the terms
and conditions of the sale, and the securities, if any,
taken. The report shall be filed in the office of the
recorder of the county where the property is situated.
Sec. 319. If the sale be confirmed by the court, an
order shall be entered directing the referees to execute
conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale,
which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order
may also give directions to them respecting the dispo
sition of the proceeds of the sale.
Sec. 320. When a party entitled to a share of the
property, or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien
paid out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees
may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the
sale as belongs to him.
Sec. 321. The conveyances shall be recorded in the
county where the premises are situated, and shall be a
bar against all persons interested in the property in any
way who shall have been named as parties in the action,
and against such parties and persons as were unknown,
if the summons was served by publication, and against
all persons claiming under them, or either of them, and
against all" persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at
the commencement of the action.
Seo. 322. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging
to an unknown owner, or to a person without the
Territory who has no legal representative within it, the
same shall be invested in securities, or at interest, for
the benefit of the person entitled thereto.
Sec. 323. When the security of the proceeds of sale
is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds is
made, it shall be done (except as herein otherwise pro
vided) in the name of the recorder of the county where
the papers are filed, and his successors in office shall
hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties
interested, subject to the order of the court.
Seo. 324. When security is taken by the referees on
a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an
instrument in writing, under their hands, delivered to
the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to
which they are respectively entitled, or when shares and
proportions have been previously adjudged by the court,
such securities shall be taken in the name of, and pay
able to the parties respectively entitled thereto, and
shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt
therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned
and filed with the recorder.
Sec. 325, The recorder in whose name a security is
taken, or by whom an instrument is made, and his suecessors in office, shall receive the interest and principal
as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same, as the
court may direct; and must deposit with the county
treasurer all securities taken, and keep an account, in a
book provided for that purpose in the recorder's office, free
for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.
Sec. 326, When it appears that partition cannot be
made equal between the parties, according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests
of some of them, and a partition be ordered, the
court may adjudge compensation to be made by one
party to another on account of the inequality ; but such
compensation shall not be required to be made to others
by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an
infant it appear that he has personal property sufficient
for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted
thereby. And in all cases the court shall have power to
make compensatory adjustment between the respective
parties, according to the ordinary principles of equity.
Sec. 327. When the share of an infant is 6old, the
proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee making
the sale to his general guardian, or the special guardian
appointed by him in the action, upon giving the security
required by law, or directed by order of the court.
Sec. 328. The guardian who may be entitled to the
custody and management of the estate of an insane
Eerson, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting
is own affairs, whose interest in real property shall have
been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his
share of the proceeds of such real property from the
referees, on executing, with sufficient sureties, an under
taking approved by a judge of the court, or by a probate
judge, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed
in him, and will render a true and just account to the
person entitled, or his legal representative.
Sec. 329. The general guardian of an infant, and
the guardian entitled to the custody and management of
the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested
in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in
any other manner, so as to authorize his beiDg made a
party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent
to a partition without action, and agree upon the share
to be set off to such infant, or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the
shares of the parts to which they may be respectively
entitled, upon an order of the court.
Sec. 330. The costs of partition, including reason
able counsel fees expended by the plaintifff for the com
mon benefit, fees of referees, and other disbursements,
shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share
in the. lands divided, in proportion to their respective
interests therein, and may be included and specified in
the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien on the
several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by
execution against such shares, and against other prop
erty held by the respective parties. When, however, a
litigation arises between some of the parties only, the
court may require the expenses of such litigation to be
paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.
Sec. 331. The court, with the consent of the parties,
may appoint a single referee, instead of three referees,
in the proceedings under the provisions of this act ; and
the single referee, when thus appointed, shall have all
the powers and perform all the duties required of the
three referees.
Sec. 332. If it appears to the court that it was
necessary to have made an abstract of the title to the
Eroperty to be partitioned, and such abstract shall have
een procured by the plaintifff, or if the plaintifff shall
have failed to have the same made before the commence
ment of the action, and one of the defendants shall have
had such abstract afterwards made, the cost of the
abstract shall be taxed as costs in the action.
CHAPTER XXI.
Actions for tbe Usurpation of au Office or
Franchise*
Bectioh 333. Certain writs abolished.
334. Action for usurpation of an office or franchise.
835. Name of person entitled to office to be set forth.
336. Rights of each determined.
337. When judgment rendered in favor of applicant.
338. Damages may be recovered.
839. When several persons claim the office.
340. Defendant found guilty ; the judgment.
Sec. 333. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo
•warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature
of quo warranto, are abolished. The remedies obtain
able in these forms may hereafter be obtained by civil
actions, under the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 334. An action may be brought by the District
Attorney, in the name of the people o? the united States
and the Territory of Idaho, upon his own information,
or upon the complaint of a private party, against any
person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or
exercises any public office, civil or military, or any fran
chise within this Territory. And it shall be the duty of
the District Attorney to bring the action whenever he
has reason to believe that any such office or franchise has
been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or exer
cised by any person, or when he is directed to do so by
the Governor.
Sec. 335. Whenever such action is brought, the Dis
trict Attorney, in addition to the statement of the cause
of action, may also set forth in the complaint the name
of the person rightly entitled to the office, with a state
ment of his right thereto ; and in such case, upon proof
by affidavit that the defendant has received fees of
emoluments belonging to the office, and by means of his
usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a judge
of the Supreme Court, or a District Judge, for the arrest
of such defendant and holding him to bail, and there
upon he may be arrested and held to bail in the same
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the
same rights and liabilities as in other civil actions where
the defendant is subject to arrest.
Sec. 336. In every such case judgment may be ren=
dered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon
the right of the party alleged to be entitled, or only
upon the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.
Seo. 337. If the judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person alleged to be entitled, and the same
be in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after
taking the oath of office and executing such official bond
as may be required by law, to take upon himself the
execution of the office.
Sec. 338. If the judgment be rendered upon the
right of the person so alleged to be entitled in favor of
such person, he may recover by action the damages
which he shall have sustained by reason of the usurpa
tion of the office by the defendant.
Sec. 339. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same office or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such office or franchise.
Sec. 340. When a defendant against whom such
action has been brought is adjudged guilty of usurping,
or intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, fran
chise or privilege, judgment shall be rendered that such
defendant shall be excluded from the office, franchise or
privilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The
court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the defend
ant a fine not exceeding five thousands dollars, which
fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury t>f
the Territory.
Sec. 341. Actions in justices' courts must be com
menced, and, subject to the right to change the place of
trial, as in this chapter provided, must be tried :
First—It there be no justices' court for the precinct
or city in which the defendant resides, in any city or
precinct Qf the county in which he resides.
Second—When two or more persons are jointly, or
jointly and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or
otherwise jointly liable in the same action, and reside in
different precincts or different cities of the same county,
or in different counties, in the precinct or city in which
any of the persons liable may reside.
Third—In case of injury to the person or property,
in the precinct or city where the injury was committed,
or where the defendant resides.
Fourth—If for the recovery of personal property, or
the value thereof, or damages for taking or detaining the
same, in the precinct or city in which the property may
be found, or in which the property was taken, or in
which the defendant resides.
Fifth—When the defendant is a non-resident of the
county, in any precinct or city wherein he maybe found.
Sixth—When the defendant is a non-resident of the
Territory, in any precinct or city in the Territory.
Seventh—When a person has contracted to perform an
obligation at a particular place, and resides in another
county, precinct or city, in the precinct or city in which
such obligation is to be performed, or in which he
resides.
Eighth. —When the parties voluntarily appear, and
?lead without summons, in any precinct or city in the
'erritory.
Ninth—In all other cases, in the precinct or city in
which the defendant resides.
Sec. 342. The court may, at any time before trial,
on motion, change the place of trial in the following
cases:
First—When it appears to the satisfaction of the
justice before whom the action is pending, by affidavit of
either party, that such justice is a material witness for
either party.
Second—When either party makes and files an affida
vit that he believes he cannot have a fair and impartial
trial before such justice, by reason of the interest, preju
dice or bias of the justice.
Third—When a jury has been demanded, and either
party makes and files an affidavit that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial on account of the bias or preju
dice of the citizens of the precinct or city against him.
Fourth—When, from any cause, the justice is disqual
ified from acting.
Fifth—When the justice is sick or unable to act.
Sec. 343. The place of trial cannot be changed, on
motion of the same party, more than once, upon any or
all of the grounds specified in the first, second and third subdivisions of the preceding section.
Sec. 344. When the court orders the place of trial to
be changed, the action must be transferred for trial to a
court the parties may agree upon ; and if they do not so
agree, then to another justices court in the same county.
Sec. 345. After an order has been made transferring
the action for trial to another court, the following pro
ceedings must be had :
First—The justice ordering the transfer must imme
diately transmit to the justice of the court to which it istransferred, on payment by the party applying of all the
costs that have accrued, all the papers in the action, to
gether with a certified transcript from his docket of the
proceedings therein.
Second—Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the
justice of the court to which the case is transferred must
issue a notice, stating when and where the trial will take
{)lace, which notice must be served upon the parties at
east one day before the time fixed for trial.
Sec. 346. From the time the order changing the
place of trial is made the court to which the action is
thereby transferred has the same jurisdiction over it as
though it had been commenced in such court.
Sec. 347. The parties shall not be at liberty to give
evidence by which the question of title to real property
shall be raised on the trial before a justice, and if it
appear from the plaintifffs own showing on the trial, or
from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, or
that of his agent or attorney, that the determination of
the action will necessarily involve the decision of a ques
tion of title to real property, the justice shall suspend all
further proceedings in the action, and certify the plead
ings, or, if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same
from his docket, to the District Court 01 the county]
and from the time of filing such pleadings or transcript
with the clerk, the District Court shall have over the
action the same jurisdiction as if it were originally com
menced therein ; provided, that when the pleadings or
transcript are certified to the district court upon the
answer of the defendant, he shall file an undertaking,
with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the justice, to the effect that they will pay the costs of
the action if it be decided against him by the District
Court.
MANNER OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN JUTSICEs' COURTS.
Sec. 348. An action in a justices' court is commeneed
by filing a complaint and issuing a summons
thereon, or by the voluntary appearance and pleading
of the parties.
Sec. 349. The court must endorse on the complaint
the date upon which it was filed, and at any time within
one year thereafter the plaintifff may have summons
issued.
Sec. 350. At any time after the complaint is filed
the defendant may, in writing, or by appearing and
pleading, waive the issuing of summons.
Sec. 351. Parties in justices' courts may appear and
act in person, or by attorney, and any person, except the
constable by whom the summons or jury process was
served, may act as attorney.
Sec. 352. When an infant is a party, he must appear
either by his general guardian, if he have One, or by a
guardian appointed by the justice, as follows :
First—If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment
must be made before the summons is issued, upon the
application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years ; if under that age, upon the application of a rela
tive or friend.
Second—If the infant be defendant, the guardian
must be appointed at the time the summons is returned
or before the answer. It is the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian if* the infant be over fourteen
years of age J otherwise, the justice must make the
appointment.
Sec. 353. The summons must be directed to the de
fendant and signed by the justice, and must contain :
First—The title 01 the court, name of the county and
precinct or city in which the action is commenced, and
the names of the parties thereto.
Second—A sufficient statement of the cause of action,
in general terms, to apprise the defendant of the nature
of the claim against him.
Third—A direction that the defendant appear and
answer before the justice at his office at a time specified
in the summons.
Fourth—In an action arising on a contract for the re
covery of money or damages only, a notice that, unless
the defendant so appears and answers, the plaintifff will
take judgment for the sum claimed by him (stating it)Fifth—In other actions, a notice that, unless defend
ant so appears and answers, the plaintifff will apply to
the court for the relief demanded. If the plaimtff has
appeared by attorney, the name of the attorney must be
endorsed on the summons.
Sec. 354. The time specified in the summons for the'
appearance of the defendant must be as follows :
First—If an order of arrest is endorsed on the summons>
forthwith.
Second—In all other cases, not less than three days
nor more than ten days from its date.
Sec. 355. If the summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of the defendants, upon notice
and demand of the plaintifff, an alias summons may be
issued in the same form as the original, except that
he may fix the time for the appearance of the defendant
at a period not to exceed ninety days from its date.
Seo. 356. The justice may, within a year from the
date of the filing of the complaint, issue as many alias
summons as may be demanded by the plaintifff.
Sec. 357. The summons cannot be served out of the
county of the justice before whom the action is brought,
except where the action is brought on a joint obligation
or contract of two or more persons who reside in differ
ent counties, and the summons has been served upon the
defendant resident of the county, in which case the sum
mons may be served upon the other defendants out of
the county, and except also when an action is brought
against a party who has contracted to perforin an obliga
tion at a particular place, and resides in a different
county, in which case summons may be served in the
county where he resides. When the defendant resides
ih the county, the summons cannot be served within two
days of the time fixed for the appearance of the defend
ant. When he resides out of the county, and the sum
mons is served out of the county, the summons cannot
be served within thirty days of such time.
Sec. 358. The summons may be served by a sheriff
or constable of the county, or by any male resident of
the county over twenty-one years of age, and must be
served and returned as prescribed in sections twentyeight and twenty-nine 01 this act ; or it may be served
by publication, and sections thirty and thirty-one, so far
as they relate to the publication of summons, are made
applicable to justices courts, the word " justice " being
substituted for the word " judge " wherever the latter
word occurs.
Sec. 359. The parties are entitled to one hour in
which to appear after the time fixed in the summons, but
are not bound to remain longer than that time, unless
both parties have appeared, and the justice being present
is engaged in the trial of another cause.
PLEADINGS IN JUSTICES' COURTS.
Sec. 360. Pleadings in justices' courts :
First—Are not required to be in any particular form,
but must be such as to enable a person of common under
standing to know what is intended.
Second—May, except the complaint, be oral or in
writing.
Third—Must not be verified, unless otherwise provided
in this act.
Fourth—H in writing, must be filed with the justice.
Fifth—If oral, an entry of their substance must be
made in the docket.
Sec. 361. The pleadings are :
First—The complaint by the plaintifff.
Second—The demurrer to the complaint.
Third—The answer by the defendant.
Fourth—The demurrer to the answer.
Sec. 362. The complaint in justices' courts is a con
cise statement, in writing, of the facts constituting the
plaintifffs cause of action, or a copy of the account, note,
bill, bond, or instrument on which the action is based.
Sec. 363. The defendant may, at any time before
answering, demur to the complaint.
Sec. 364. The answer may contain a denial of any
or all of the material facts stated in the complaint which
the defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement,
in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constitu
ting a defense or counterclaim upon which an action
might be brought by the defendant against the plaintifff
in a justices' court.
Sec. 365. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the last section, neither
he nor his assignee can .afterwards maintain an action
against the plaintifff therefore.
Sec. 366. When the answer contains new matter in
avoidance, or constituting a defense or counterclaim, the
plaintifff may, at any time before the trial, demur to the
same for insufficiency, stating therein the grounds of such
demurrer.
Sec. 367. The proceedings on demurrer are as fol
lows :
First—If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained,
the plaintifff may, within such time (not exceeding two
days) as the court allows, amend his complaint.
Second—If the demurrer to the complaint is over
ruled, the defendant may answer forthwith.
Third—If the demurrer to an answer is sustained,
the defendant may amend his answer within such time
(not exceeding two days) as the court may allow.
Fourth—If the demurrer to an answer be overruled,
the action must proceed as if no demurrer had been
interposed.
Sec. 368. Either party may, at any time before the
oonGlusion of the trial, amend any pleading ; but if the
amendment is made after issue joined, and it appears to the
satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is
necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment must be granted. The
court may also, in its discretion, when an adjournment
will by the amendment be rendered necessary, require,
as a condition to the allowance of such amendment made
after issue joined, the payment of costs to the adverse
party, to be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty
dollars. The court may also, on such terms as may be
just, and on payment of costs, relieve a party from
a judgment by default taken against him by bis mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect; but tbe
application for such relief must be made within ten days
after the entry of the judgment and upon an affidavit
showing good cause therefore.
Sec. 369. When a pleading is amended, the adverse
party may answer or demur to it within such time (not
exceeding two days) as the court may allow.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Provisional Remedies in Justices' Courts.
Section 370. Order of arrest and arrest of defendant.
871. Affidavit and undertaking for order of arrest.
3T2. Defendant arrested; proceedings.
373. Officer mast give notice of arrest.
374. Defendant detained.
875. Writ of attachment '
376. Undertaking on attachment.
877. The writ of attachment.
378. Certain sections applicable.
879. Same.
ARREST AND BAIL.
Sec. 370. An order to arrest the defendant maybe
endorsed on a summons issued by the justice, and the
defendant may be arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable
at the time of serving the summons, and brought
before tbe justice, and there detained until duly dis
charged, in the following cases :
First—In an action for the recovery of money or
damages on a cause of action arising upon contract,
express or implied, when the defendant is about to
depart from the Territory with intent to defraud his
creditors.
Second—In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money
or property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or
converted to his own use, by one who received it in a
fiduciary capacity.
Third— When the defendant has been guilty of fraud
in contracting the debt or increasing the obligation for
which the action is brought.
Fourth—When the defendant has removed, concealed
or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with
intent to defraud his creditors.
But do female caD be arrested iu any action. When
the debtor is in another countj than that in which the
writ of arrest was issued, he may be arrested in that
county upon the writteu direction of a magistrate of
that county indorsed upon the warrant, signed by him
with his name and office, and dated at the county, city
or town where it is made, to the following effect : " This
warrant may be executed in the county of ;" or as
the case may be.
Sec. 371. Before an order of arrest can be made, the
party applying must prove to the satisfaction of the
justice, lay the affidavit of himself or some other person,
the facts upon which the application is founded. The
plaintifff must also execute and deliver to the justice a
written undertaking, in the sum of one hundred dollars,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff
will pay all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, if the same be wrongful or without sufficient
cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking.
Sec. 372. The defendant, immediately upon being
arrested, must be taken to the office of the justice who
made the order, and, if he is absent or unable to try the
action, or if it appears to him by the affidavit of the
defendant that he is a material witness in the action, the
officer must immediately take the defendant before an
other justice within the county, who must take jurisdic
tion of the action, and proceed thereon as if the sum
mons had been issued and the order of arrest made by
him.
Sec. 373. The officer making the arrest must imme
diately give notice thereof to the plaintifff, or his attorney
or agent, and indorse on the summons and subscribe a
certificate stating the time of serving the same, the time
of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plaintifff.
Seo. 374. The officer making the arrest must keep
the defendant in custody until he is discharged by order
of the justice.
ATTACHMENT.
Sec. 375. A writ to attach the property of the de
fendant must be issued by the justice at the time of or
after issuing the summons and before answer, on receiv
ing an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing
the same facts as are required to be shown by the affida
vit in cases of attachment in the district court.
Sec. 376. Before issuing the writ the justice must
require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with two or more sufficient sureties, in a sum not
less than one hundred dollars, to the effect that, if the
defendant recover judgment, or if the attachment be
dismissed, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant and ail damages which he may
sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking.
Sec. 377. The writ may be directed to the sheriff or
any constable of the county or the sheriff^of any other
county, and must require him to attach and safely keep
all the property of the defendant within his county not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount
of which must be stated in conformity with the com
plaint, unless the defendant give him security, by the
undertaking of two sufficient sureties, in an amount suf
ficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs ; in which
case to take such undertaking.
Sec. 378. The sections of this act from section one
hundred and twenty-four to section one hundred and
forty-one, both inclusive, shall be applicable to attach
ments in justices' courts, the word "constable," when
directed to a constable, being substituted for the word
" sheriff," and the word " justice " being substituted for
the word "judge."
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PBOPEETY.
Sec. 379. In an action to recover possession of personal
property, the plaintifff may, at the time of issuing
summons, or at any time thereafter before answer, claim
the delivery of such property to him, and the sections
of this act from section ninety-nine to section one hun
dred and ten, both inclusive, are applicable to such claim
when made in justices' courts, the powers therein given
and the duties imposed on sheriffs being extended to
constables, and the word "justice" substituted for
"judge."
Sec. 380. When the defendant fails to appear and
answer or demur at the time specified in the summons,
or within one hour thereafter, then, upon proof of
service of the summons, the following proceedings must
be had :
First—If the action is based on a contract, and is for
the recovery of money or damages only, the court must
render judgment in favor of plaintifff for the sum speci
fied in the summons.
Second—In all other actions the court must hear the
evidence offered by the plaintifff, and must render judg
ment in his favor for such a sum (not exceeding the
amount stated in the summons) as appears by such evi
dence to be just.
Sec. 381. In the following cases the same proceed
ings must be had, and judgment must be rendered in
like manner as if the defendant had failed to appear and
answer or demur :
First—If the complaint has been amended, and the
defendant fail to answer it as amended within the time
allowed by the court.
Second—If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled,
and the defendant fails to answer at once.
Third—If the demurrer to the answer is sustained,
and the defendant fails to amend the answer within the
time allowed by the court.
Time of Trial and Postponements in Justices'
Sec. 382. Unless postponed, as provided in this act,
or unless transferred to another court, the trial of the
action must commence at the expiration of one hour
from the time specified in the summons for the appear
ance of defendant, and the trial must be continued with
out adjournment for more than twenty-four hours at
any one time, until all the issues therein are dis
posed of.
Sec. 383. The court may, of its own motion, post
pone the trial :
First—For not exceeding one day, if, at the time
fixed by law or by an order of the court for the trial,
the court is engaged in the trial of another action.
Second—For not exceeding two days, if, by an amend
ment of the pleadings, or the allowance of time to make
euch amendment or to plead, a postponement is rendered
necessary.
Third—For not exceeding three days, if the trial is
upon issues of fact, and a jury have been demanded.
Sec. 334. The court may, by consent of the parties,
given in writing or in open court, postpone the trial to a
time agreed upon by the parties.
Sec. 385. The trial may be postponed upon the appli
cation of either party for a period not exceeding four
months :
First—The party making the application must prove,
by his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want
©i material testimony, which he expects to procure,
safely proceed to trial, and must show in what respect
the testimony expected is material, and that he has used
■due diligence to procure it, and has been unable to do so.
Second—If the application is on the part of the plain
tiff, and the defendant is under arrest, a postponement
for more than three hours discharges the defendant from
custody ; but the action may proceed notwithstanding,
and the defendant is subject to arrest on execution in
the same manner as if he had not been discharged.
Third—If the application is on the part of a defend
ant under arrest, before it can be granted he must exe
cute an undertaking, with two or more sufficient sure
ties, to be approved by and in a sum to be fixed by the
justice, to the effect that he will render himself amenable
to the process of the court during the pendency of the
action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judg
ment therein, or that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff
the amount of any judgment which he may recover in
the action, not exceeding the amount specified in the
undertaking. On filing the undertaking specified in
this subdivision, the justice must order the defendant to
be discharged from custody.
Fourth—The party making the application must, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony
of any witness of such adverse party who is in attend
ance may be then taken by deposition before the justice,
and that the testimony so taken may be read on the trial
with the same effect and subject to the same objections
as if the witness was produced. But the court may
require the party making the application to state, upon
affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain ; and if
the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence
would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper,
the trial must not be postponed.
Sec. 386. No adjournment must, unless by consent,
be granted for a period longer than ten days, upon the
application of either party, except upon condition that
such party file an undertaking, in an amount fixed by
the justice, with two sureties, to be approved by the jus
tice, to the effect that they will pay to the opposite party
the amount of any judgment which may be recovered
against the party applying, not exceeding the sum speci
fied in the undertaking.
Trials in Justices' Courts.
Sec. 387. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party
and controverted by the other. They are of two kinds :
First, of law ; and, second, of fact.
Sec. 388. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 389. An issue of fact arises—First, upon a
material allegation in the complaint controverted in the
answer ; and, second, upon new matter in the answer,
except an issue of law is joined thereon.
Sec. 390. An issue of law must be tried by the
court.
Sec. 391. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury,
unless a jury is waived, in which case it must be tried
by the court.
Sec. 392. A jury may be waived—First, by consent
of parties entered in the docket ; second, by a failure of
either party to demand a jury before the commencement
of the trial of an issue of fact ; third, by the failure of
either party to appear at the time fixed for the trial of
an issue of fact.
Seo. 393. If either party fails to appear at the time
fixed for trial, the trial may proceed at the request of
the adverse party.
Sec. 394. The challenges are either peremptory or
for cause. Each party is entitled to three peremptory
challenges. Either party may challenge for cause on
any grounds set forth in section one hundred and sixtyeight.
Challenges for cause must be tried by the
justice.
Sec. 395. "When the cause of action or counter
claim arises upon an account or instrument for the pay
ment of money only, the court, at any time before the
trial, may, by an order under his hand, require the orig
inal to be exhibited to the inspection of, and a copy to be
furnished to the adverse party, at such time as may be
fixed in the order ; or, if such order is not obeyed, the
account or instrument cannot be given in evidence.
Seo. 396. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or
file with the justice at the time of issuing the summons,
the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of ex
change, or other written obligation for the payment of
money, upon which the action is brought, the defendant
is deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures,
endorsers, or assignors* thereof, unless he specifically
deny the same in his answer, and verify the answer by
his oath.
CHAPTER XXV.
Judgments Other than by Default in Justices'
Courts,
Sictiok 897.
Judgment by confession.
393.
Judgment of dismissal entered in certain cases.
399.
Judgment upon verdict.
400.
Judgment after trial by the court.
401.
Judgment bow entered.
404.
Excess beyond Jurisdiction may be remitted.
403.
Offer to compromise before trial.
404.
Costs included in the judgment.
406.
Abstract of Judgment.
406.
Abstract of Judgment when filed.
407.
Effect of docketing Judgment.
408.
Judgment not a lien unless abstract is recorded.
Sec, 897. Judgments upon confession may be entered
in any justices' courts specified in the confession in any
amount of which said courts have jurisdiction.
Sec. 398. Judgment that the action be dismissed,
without prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with
costs, in the following cases :
First—When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the
action before it is finally submitted.
Second—When he fails to appear at the time specified
in the summons, or at the time to which the action has
been postponed, or within one hour thereafter.
Third-—When, after a demurrer to the complaint has
been sustained, the plaintifff fails to amend it within the
time allowed by the court.
Fourth —When it is objected at the trial, and appears
by the evidence that the action is brought in the wrong
county, or precinct, or city ; but if the objection is taken
and overruled, it is cause only of reversal on appeal, and
does not otherwise invalidate the judgment ; if not taken
at the trial, it is waived..
Sec. 399. When a trial by jury has been had, judg
ment must be entered by the justice at once in conform
ity with the verdict.
Sec. 400. When the trial is by the court, judgment
must be entered at the close of the trial.
Sec. 401. Judgments in justices' courts must be
substantially in the form required by this act. When
the judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant
is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact
that the defendant is 60 subject must be stated in the
judgment.
Sec. 402. When the amount found due to either
party exceeds the sum for which the justice is author
ized to enter judgment, 6uch party may remit the excess,
and judgment may be rendered for the residue.
Sec. 403. If the defendant, at any time before the
trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken
against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may imme
diately have judgment therefore, with the costs then
accrued ; but if lie do not accept such offer before the
trial, and fail to recover in the action a sum equal to the
offer, he cannot recover costs, but costs must be adjudged
against him, and, if he recover, be deducted from his
recovery. The offer and failure to accept it cannot be
given in evidence, nor affect the recovery otherwise than
as to cost.
Sec. 404. The justice must tax and include in the judg
ment the costs allowed by law to the prevailing party.
Sec. 405. The justice, on the demand of a party in
whose favor judgment is rendered, must give him an
abstract of the judgment in the following tonn (tilling
blanks according to the facts) :
" Territory of Idaho,, Plain tiff, vs.
County. )
-, Defendant, j
" In Justices' Court, before , Justice of the Peace.
" Precinct (or city), , 18—.
"Judgment entered for plaintifff (or defendant) for
on the dav of
"I certify that the foregoing is a correct abstract of a
judgment rendered in said action in my court (or, as the
case may be, in the court of , Justice of the Peace,
as appears by his docket now in my possession, as his suc
cessor in office). " ,
Justice of the Peace"
Sec. 406. The abstract may be filed and docketed in
the office of the county recorder of the county in which
the judgment was rendered, and must be docketed in the
judgment docket of the probate court. The time of
the receipt of the abstract by the recorder must be noted
by him thereon and entered in the docket.
Sec. 407. From the time of docketing in the county
recorder's office execution may be issued thereon by the
probate judge or the clerk of said probate court to the
sheriff of any county in the Territory other than the
county in which the judgment was obtained in the same
manner and with like effect as if issued on judgments of
the probate courts.
Sec. 408. A judgment rendered in a justices' court
creates no lien upon any lands of the defendant unless
an abstract is filed and recorded in the office of the recorder
of the county in which the lands are Bituated.
When so filed and recorded, such a judgment is a lien
upon the lands of the judgment debtor situated in that
county.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Execution from Justices' Courts.
Sictiok 409. Execution may issue within Ave years.
410. Execution, contents of.
411 Renewal of execution.
41S. Duty of officer receiving execution.
413. Sections applicable.
Sec. 409. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
of a justices' court may be issued by the justice
who entered the judgment, or his successor in office, on
the application of" the party entitled thereto, at any time
within five years from the entry of judgment.
Sec. 410. The execution must be directed to the
sheriff or to a constable of the county, and must be sub
scribed by the justice and bear date the day of its deliv
ery to the officer. It must intelligibly refer to the judg
ment by stating the names of the parties and the name
of the justice oefore whom, and of the county, and the
precinct or city where, and the time when it was entered ;
the amount of the judgment, if it be for money | and
if less than the whole sum is due, the true amount due
thereon. It must contain in like cases, similar directions
to the sheriff or constable as are required by the provis
ions of chapter seventeen of this act in an execution to
the sheriff.
Sec. 411. An execution may, at the request of the
ju<igment creditor, be renewed before the expiration of
the time fixed for its return by the word " renewal "
written thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed
by the justice. Such renewal has the effect of an origi
nal issue, and may be repeated as often as necessary. If
an execution is returned unsatisfied} another may be
afterwards issued.
Sec. 412. The sheriff or constable to whom the exe^
cution is directed must execute the same in the same
manner as the sheriff is required by the provisions of chapter seventeen of this act to proceed upon execu
tion directed to him ; and the constable, when the exe
cution is directed to him, is vested for that purpose with
all the powers of the sheriff.
Sec. 413. The sections of this act from section 226
jQ gggtion 266, both inclusive, are applicable to justices'
courts, the word " constable " being substituted to that
end for the word u sheriff," and the word " justice " for
the word " judge."
Sec. 414. A justice may punish as for contempt
persons guilty of the following acts, and no other :
First—Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
towards the justice while holding the court, tending to
interrupt the due course of the trial or other judicial
proceeding.
Second—A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or
violent disturbance in the presence of the justice or in
the immediate vicinity of the court held by him, tending
to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding.
Third—Disobedience or resistance to the execution of
a lawful order or process made or issued by him.
Fourth—Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or
refusing to be sworn or to answer as a witness.
Fifth—Rescuing any person or property in the cus
tody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of the
court held by him.
Sec. 415. When a contempt is committed in the
immediate view and presence of the justice, it may be
punished summarily ; to that end an order must be made,
reciting the facts as they occurred, and adjudging that
the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of con
tempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed.
Sec. 416. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the justice, a war
rant of arrest may be issued by such justice, on which
the person so guilty may be arrested and brought before
the justice immediately, when an opportunity to be
heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The jus
tice may thereupon discharge him or may convict him
of the offense.
Sec. 417. A justice may punish for contempts by
fine or imprisonment, or both ; such fine not to exceed
in any case one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment
not to exceed one day.
Sec. 418. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered by
the justice in his docket.
Docket of Justice.
Sec. 419. Every justice must keep a book donominated a "Docket" in which he must enter:
First—The title of every action or proceeding ; and
if a sum of money be claimed, the amount thereof.
Second—The object of the action or proceeding.
Third—The date of the summons and the time of its
return ; and if an order to arrest the defendant be made,
or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of the
fact.
Fourth—The time when the parties, or either of
them, appear, or their nonappearance if default be
made; a minute of the pleadings and motions; if in
writing, referring to them ; if not in writing, a concise
statement of the material parts of the pleading.
Fifth —Every adjournment, stating on whose applica
tion and to what time.
Sixth—The demand for a trial by jury, when the
same is made and by whom made, the order for the
jury, and the time appointed for the return of the jury
and for the trial.
Seventh —The names of the jurors who appear and are
sworn, and the names of all witnesses sworn, and at
whose request.
Eighth—The verdict of the jury, and when received ;
if the jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such
disagreement and discharge.
Ninth —The judgment of the court, specifying the
costs included and the time when rendered.
Tenth—The issuing of the execution, when issued, and
to whom ; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made,
and a statement of any money paid to the justice, when
and by whom.
Eleventh—The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be
given, and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.
Sec. 420. The several particulars of the last section
6Pecifie(l must be entered under the title of the action
to which they relate, and (unless otherwise in this act
provided) at the time when they occur. Such entries in
a justice's docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the
justice or his successor in office, are primary evidence of
the facts so stated,
Sec. 421. A justice must keep an alphabetical index
to his docket, in which must be entered the names of
the parties to each judgment, with a reference to the
page of entry. The names of the plaintifffs must be en
tered in the index in the alphabetical order of the first
letter of the family name.
Sec. 422. Every justice of the peace, npon the expiration
of his term of office, must deposit with his suc
cessor his official dockets and all papers filed in his office,
his own as well as those of his predecessors, or any
others which may be in his custody to be kept as public
records.
Sec. 423. If the office of a justice become vacant by
his death or removal from the precinct, or city, or other
wise, before his successor is elected and qualified the
docket and papers in possession of such justice must be
deposited in the office of some other justice in the city
or precinct, to be by him delivered to the successor of
such justice. If there is no other justice in the town or
precinct, then the docket and papers of such justice
must be deposited in the office of the county recorder of
the county, to be by him delivered to the successor in
office of the justice.
Sec. 424. Any justice with whom the docket of his
predecessor, or of any other justice, is deposited, has and
may exercise over all actions and proceedings entered in
such docket the same jurisdiction as if originally com
menced before him. In case of the creation of a new county,
or the change of the boundary between two counties,
any justice into whose hands the docket of a justice
formerly acting as such within the same territory may
come, is for the purpose of this section, considered the
successor of such former justice.
Sec. 425. The justice elected to fill a vacancy is the
successor of the justice whose office became vacant
before the expiration of a full term. When a full term
expires, the same or another person elected to take office
in the same city or precinct from that time is the suc
cessor.
Sec. 426. When two or more justices are equally
entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the suc
cessor in office of the justice, the probate judge must, by
a certificate subscribed by him and filed in the office of
the probate court, designate which justice is the succes
sor of a justice going out of office or whose office has
become vacant.
General Provisions.
Sec. 427. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas
in any action or proceeding in the courts held by them,
and final process on any judgment recovered therein to
any part of the county.
Sec. 428. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a justice, except a subpoena,
must be issued without a blank to be filled by another ;
otherwise it is void.
Sec. 429. Justices of the peace must receive from
the sheriffs or constables of their county all monies col
lected on any process or order issued from their courts
respectively, and all monies paid to them in their qfficial
capacity, and must pay the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them without delay.
Sec. 430. In case of the sickness or other disability,
or a necessary absence of a justice, on a return of a
summons or at the time appointed for a trial another
justice of the same town, city, or precinct may, at hisrequest,
attend in his behalf, and thereupon is vested
with the power, for the time being, of the justice before
whom the summons was returnable. In that case the
proper entry of the proceedings before the attending
justice, subscribed by him, must be made in the docket
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable.
If the case is adjourned, the justice before whom the
summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction.
Sec. 431. Justices may in all eases require a deposit
of money or an undertaking as security for costs of
court before issuing a summons.
Sec. 432. The prevailing party in justices' courts isentitled
to costs of the action, and ako of any proceed
ings taken by him in and of an execution issued upon
any judgment recovered by him.
Sec. 433. Justices' courts, being courts of peculiar
and limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of this act
which are in their nature applicable to the organization,
powers, and course of proceedings in justices' courts, or
which have been made applicable by special provisions in
this act, are applicable to justices' courts and the pro
ceedings therein.
Sec. 434. A judgment, or order, in a civil action,
except when expressly made final by this act, may be re
viewed as prescribed in this chapter, and not otherwise.
Sec. 435. An order made out of court, without
notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified,
without notice, by the judge who made it ; or may be
vacated or modified, on notice, in the manner in which
other motions are made.
Sec. 436. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the
cases prescribed in this chapter. The party appealing
is known as the " appellant, and the adverse party as
the " respondent."
Sec. 437. An appeal may be taken :
First—From a final judgment in an action or special
proceeding commenced in the court in which the judg
ment i9 rendered within one year after the entry of judg
ment. But an exception to the decision or verdict, on
the ground that it is not supported by the evidence,
cannot be reviewed on appeal from the judgment unless
the appeal is taken within sixty days after the rendition
.of the judgment.
Second—-From a judgment rendered by a probate or
justices' court within twenty-one days from the entry of
judgment.
Third—From an order granting or refusing a new
trial ; from an order granting or dissolving an injunc
tion ; from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an in
junction ; from an order dissolving or refusing to dis
solve an attachment ; from an order granting or refusing
to grant a change of the place of trial; from any special
order made after final judgment, and from an interlocu
tory judgment in actions for partition of real property,
within thirty days after the order or interlocutory judg
ment is made and entered in the minutes of the court or
filed with the clerk.
Sec. 438. The appeal shall be made by filing with
the clerk of the court with whom the judgment or order
appealed from is entered a notice stating the appeal from
the same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a
copy of the notice upon the adverse party or his attor
ney. The order of service is immaterial, but the appeal
is ineffectual for any purpose, unless, within five days
after service of the notice of appeal, an undertaking be
filed, or a deposit of money be made with the clerk, as
hereinafter provided, or the undertaking be waived by
the adverse party in writing.
Sec. 439. The undertaking on appeal must be in
writing, and must be executed on the part of the appel
lant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appel
lant will pay all the damages and costs which may be
awarded against him on the appeal, or on a dismissal
thereof, not exceeding three hundred dollars ; or that
sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order w as entered, to abide the event of
the appeal.
Sec. 440. If the appeal be from a judgment or order
directing the payment of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment or order, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by
two or more sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the amount named in the judgment or order;
that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part
thereof, be affirmed, and the appeal be dismissed, the
appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the
judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to
which the judgment or order is affirmed,*if affirmed only
in part, and all damages and costs which may be awarded
against the appellant upon the appeal, and that if the
appellant does not make such payment within thirty
days after the filing of the remittitur from the Supreme'
Court in the court from which the appeal is taken, judg
ment may be entered, on motion of the respondent, in
his favor, against the sureties, for such amount, together
with the interest that may be due thereon and the dam
ages and costs which may be awarded against the appel
lant on the appeal. If the judgment or order appealed
from be for a greater amount than two thousand dollars,
and the sureties do not state in their affidavits of justiti
cation accompanying the undertaking that they are each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, the stipula
tion may be that the judgment to be witered against the
sureties shall be for such amounts only as in their affida
vits they may state that they are severally worth, and
judgment may be entered against the sureties by the
court from which the appeal is taken pursuant to the stip
ulations herein designated. When the judgment or order
appealed from is made payable in a specified kind of
money or currency, the judgment*against the sureties
upon the undertaking must be made payable in the same
kind of money or currency.
Sec. 441. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the assignment or delivery of documents or personal
property, the execution of the judgment or order
cannot be stayed by appeal, unless the things required to
be assigned or delivered be placed in the custody of sucb
officer or receiver as the court, or a judge thereof, may
appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the
part of the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in
such amount as the court, or the judge thereof, may
direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the order
of the appellate court upon the appeal.
Sec. 442. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument,
the execution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed
by the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment or
order is entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate
court.
Sec. 443. If the judgment or order appealed from
direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property,
the execution of the same shall not be stayed, unless a
written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect that,
during the possession of such property by the appellant,
he will not commit, nor suffer to be committed, any
waste thereon ; and that, if the judgment be affirmed, or
the appeal dismissed, he will pay the value of the use
and occupation of the property from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of the possession thereof, pur
suant to the judgment or order, not exceeding a sum to
be fixed by the judge of the court by which the judg
ment was rendered or order made, and which shall be
specified in the undertaking. "When the judgment is for
the sale of mortgaged premises and the payment of a
deficiency arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall
also provide for the payment of such deficiency.
Sec. 444. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as pro
vided in the preceding sections in this chapter, it stays
all further procefdings in the court below upon the
judgment or order appealed from, or upon the matter
embraced therein, and releases from levy property which
was levied upon under execution issued upon such judg
ment, but the court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the order appealed
from. And the court below may, in its discretion,
dispense withvor limit the security required by
*n'8 chapter when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right.
An appeal does not continue in force an attachment,
unless an undertaking be executed and filed on the part
of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the
amount of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant
will pay all costs and damages which the respondent may
sustain by reason of the attachment in case the order of
the court below be sustained, and unless, within five days
after the entry of the order appealed from, such appeal
be perfected,
Sec. 445. The undertaking prescribed by sections
f°UT hundred and thirty-nine, four hundred and forty,
f0ur hundred and forty -one and four hundred and fortythree may be in one instrument or several, at the option
the appellant,
Sec. 446. The adverse party may except to the sufficiency
°^ tne sureties to the undertakings mentioned in sections
^our hundred and thirty-nine, four hundred and forty,
four hundred and forty-one and four hundred and fortythree at any time within thirty days after the filing of
such undertakings, and unless they, or other sureties,
within twenty days after the appellant has been served
with notice of such exception, justify, before a judge of
the court below, a probate judge, or county clerk of the
.court, upon five days' notice to the respondent, of the
time and place of justification, execution of the judg
ment, order or decree appealed from is no longer stayed;
and in all cases where an undertaking is required on
appeal by the provisions of this chapter, a deposit in the
court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall be
equivalent to filing the undertaking ; and in all eases the
undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written
consent of the respondent,
Sec. 447. In cases not provided for in sections four
hundred and forty, four hundred and forty-one, four
hundred and forty-two and four hundred and forty
three, the perfecting of an appeal, by giving the under
taking or making the deposit, mentioned in section four
hundred and thirty-nine, stays proceedings in the court
below upon the judgment or order appealed from, except
"where it directs the sale of perishable property, in which
case the court below may order the property to be sold,
and the proceeds thereof to be deposited to abide the
judgment of the appellate court.
Sec. 448. On an appeal from a, final judgment, the
appellant must furnish the court with a copy of the
notice of appeal, of the judgment-roll, and of any bill of
exceptions or statement in the case upon which the ap
pellant relies. Any statement used on motion for a new
trial, or settled after decision of such motion, when the
motion is made upon the minutes of the court, provided
in section two hundred and twelve, or any bill of excep
tions settled, as provided in sections two hundred and
three and two hundred and four, or used on motion for
a new trial, may be used on appeal from a final judg
ment equally as upon appeal from the order granting or
refusing the new trial.
Sec. 449. On appeal from a judgment on an appeal,
or from an order, except an order granting or refusing
a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with a
copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment or order
appealed from, and of papers used on the hearing in the
court below.
Sec. 450. On an appeal from an order granting or
refusing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court
with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the order ap
pealed from, and of the papers designated in section two
hundred and twelve of this act.
Sec. 451. The copies provided for in the last three sections must be certified to be correct by the clerk or
the attorneys, and must be accompanied with a certifi
cate of the clerk that an undertaking on appeal, in due
form, has been properly filed, or a stipulation of the
parties waiving an undertaking.
Sec. 452. If the appellant fails to furnish the requi
site papers, the appeal may be dismissed; but no appeal can
be dismissed for insufficiency of the undertaking thereon,
if a good and sufficient undertaking, approved by a justice
of the Supreme Court, be filed in the Supreme Court
before the hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal.
Sec. 453. The dismissal of an appeal is, in effect, an
affirmance of the judgment or order appealed from,
nnless the dismissal is expressly made without prejudice
o another appeal.
Seo. 451. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the
court may review the verdict or decision, if excepted to,
or any intermediate order, if excepted to, which involves
the merits or necessarily affects the judgment.
Sec. 455. When the judgment or order is reversed
or modified, the appellate court may make complete res
titution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous
judgment or order, so far as such restitution is consistent
with protection of a purchaser of property at a sale
ordered by the judgment, or had under process issued
upon the judgment, on the appeal from which the pro
ceedings were not stayed ; and for relief in such cases
the appellant may have his action against the respond
ent, enforcing the judgment for the proceeds of the sale
of the property, after deducting therefrom the expenses
of the sale. When it appears to the appellate court that
the appeal was made for delay, it may add to the costs
such damages as may be just.
Sec. 456. When judgment is rendered upon the
appeal, it shall be certified by the clerk of the Supreme
Court to the clerk with whom the judgment-roll is filed
or the order appealed from is entered. In cases of
appeal from the judgment, the clerk with whom the roll
is filed shall attach the certificate to the judgment-roll
and enter a minute of the judgment of the Supreme
Court on the docket against the original entry. In cases
of appeal from the order, the clerk shall enter at length
in the record of the court the certificate received and
minute against the entry of the order appealed from,
a reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that
such order had been affirmed, reversed or modified, as
the case may be, by the Supreme Conrt on appeal.
appeals to the supreme court from the district court.
Sec. 457. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme
Court from the district courts in the following cases :
First—From a final judgment entered in an action or
special proceeding commenced in these courts or brought
into these courts from other courts.
Second—From an order granting or refusing a new
trial ; from an order granting or dissolving an injunc
tion ; from an order refusing to grant or dissolve an in
junction ; from an order dissolving or refusing to dis
solve an attachment ; from an order changing or refusing
to change the place of trial ; from any special order
made after final judgment and from such interlocutory
judgment in actions for partition as determine the rights
and interests of the respective parties and directs partition to be made ; provided, that no appeal shall be had
from the district court to the Supreme Court in civil
cases where the sum in dispute shall not exceed one hun
dred dollars ; and provided further, that the Supreme
Court shall have appellate jurisdiction in all criminal
cases of which the district court has cognizance.
APPEALS TO THE DI8TRICT COURT FROM TnE PROBATE COURT
IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Sec. 458. An appeal may be taken to the district
court from the probate court in civil cases as follows :
First—From a final judgment in an action of forcible
entry and detainer ; in an action to prevent or abate a
nuisance ; and in any special cases and proceedings, and
in cases which involve the legality of any tax, import, as
sessment, toll, or municipal fine, or in which the demand,
exclusive of interest, or the value of the property in
controversy, amounts to twenty-five dollars.
Second—From an order granting or refusing a new
trial in the cases designated in this section, and from any
special order made after final judgment in such cases.
APPEALS FROM PROBATE COURTS.
Sec. 459. An appeal may be taken to the district
court from a judgment or order of the probate court :
First—Granting, refusing or revoking letters testa
mentary, or of administration, or of guardianship.
Second—Admitting or refusing to admit a will to
probate.
Third—Against or in favor of the validity of a will,
or revoking the probate thereof.
Fourth—Against or in favor of setting apart property,
or making an allowance for a widow or child.
Fifth—Against or in favor of directing the partition,
sale, or conveyance of real property.
Sixth—Settling an account of an executor, or adminis
trator, or guardian.
Seventh—Refusing, allowing, or directing the distri
bution, or partition of an estate, or any part thereof,
or the payment of a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive
Eighth —Overruling a motion for new trial.
Ninth—Confirming a report of an appraiser setting
apart the homestead.
Sec. 460. When an executor or administrator who
has given an official undertaking appeals from a judg
ment or order from the probate court made in the pro
ceedings had upon the estate of which he is administra
tor or executor, his official undertaking stands in the
place of an undertaking on appeal, and the sureties
therein are liable as on such undertaking.
Sec. 461. When the order or decree appointing an
executor, or administrator, or guardian, is reversed on
appeal for error, and not for want of jurisdiction of the
court, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate
performed by such executor, or administrator, or guar
dian, if he have qualified, are as valid as if such order or
decree had been affirmed.
APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT COURT FROM JUSTICES COURTS.
Sec. 462. Any party dissatisfied with a judgment
rendered in a civil action in a justices' court where the
amount of the judgment exceeds twenty-five dollars,
may appeal therefrom to the district court of the county
within twenty days after the rendition of the judgment.
The appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal
with the justice, and serving a copy on the adverse party.
The notice shall state whether the appeal is taken from
the whole or a part of the judgment, and, if from a part,
what part, and whether the appeal is taken on questions
of law or fact, or both.
Sec. 463. When a party appeals to the district court
on questions of law alone, he shall, within ten days from
the rendition of judgment, prepare a statement of the
case and file the same with the justice. The statement
shall contain the grounds on which the party intends to
rely on the appeal, and so much of the evidence as may
be necessary to explain the grounds, and no more.
Within ten days after he receives notice that the state
ment is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the
same, may file amendments. The proposed statement
and amendments shall be settled by the justice, and if no
amendments be filed, the original statement shall be
adopted. The statement thus adopted, or as settled by
the justice, with a copy of the docket of the justice, and
all motions filed with him by the parties during the trial,
and the notice of appeal, shall be used on the hearing of
the appeal before the district court.
Sec. 464. When a painty appeals to the district court
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and
fact, no statement need be made ; but the action shall be
tried anew in the district court.
Sec. 465. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and
on payment of the fees of the justice, and tiling an
undertaking as required in the next section, the justice
shall, within five days, transmit to the clerk of the dis
trict court, if the appeal be on a question of law alone,
a certified copy of his docket, the statement a6 admitted
or as settled, the notice of appeal, and the undertaking
filed ; or, if the appeal be on questions of fact, or of both
law and fact, a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings,
all notices, motions, and other papers filed in the cause
the notice of appeal, and the undertaking filed ; and the
justice may be compelled by the district court, by an
order entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and
may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the same.
A certified copy of such order may be served on the
justice by the party or his attorney. In the district
court either party shall have the benefit of all legal ob
jections made in the justices' courts.
Sec. 466. An appeal from a justice's court shall not
be effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be
filed, with two or more sureties, in the sum of one nundred
dollars, for the payment of the costs on appeal ; or,
if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum equal to
twice the amount of the judgment, including costs, when
the judgment is for the payment of money, or twice the
value of the property, including costs, when the judg
ment is for the recovery of specific personal property ;
and shall be conditioned, when the action is for the re
covery of money, that the appellant will pay the amount
of the judgment appealed from, and all costs, if the
appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any
i
"udgment, and all costs, that may be recovered against
lira in said action in the district court. Where the
action is for the recovery of specific personal property,
the undertaking shall be conditioned that the appellant
will pay the judgment and costs appealed from, and
obey the order of the court made therein, if the appeal
be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and costs
lhat may be recovered against him in said action in the
district court, and will obey any order made by the court
therein. The undertaking shall be accompanied by the
affidavit of the sureties that they are residents of the
county, and are each worth the amount specified in the
undertaking, over and above all their just debts and lia
bilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, or
the bond shall be executed by a sufficient number of
sureties, who can justify in the aggregate to an amount
equal to double the amonnt specified in the bond, or a
deposit of the amount of the judgment (including all costs)
appealed from, or of the value of the property (including
all costs) in actions for the recovery of specific personal
property, with the justice ; and such deposit 6hall be
equivalent to the filing of the undertaking in this act
mentioned ; and in such cases the justice shall transmit
the money to the clerk of the district court, to be by
him paid out upon the order of the court. The adverse
party may, however, except to the sufficiency of the
sureties within five days after the filing of the under
taking, and unless they, or other sureties, justify before
the justice before whom the appeal is taken, within five
days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse.party, to the
amount stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall be re
garded as if no undertaking had been given.
Sec. 467. If an execution be issued on the filing of
*ne undertaking staying all proceedings, the justice shall,
by order direct the officer to stay all proceedings on the
same. Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for
services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish
all property levied upon and deliver the same to the
judgment debtor, together with all monies collected
from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid, the
officer may retain so much of the property, or proceeds
thereof, as may be necessary to pay the same.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Proceedings Against Joint Debtors.
Biction 4«8. When parties may be summoned aftcrjudgraent.
469. Summons, what to contain and how served.
470. Affidavit to accompany summons.
471. Answer, what it may contain.
473. The pleadings in the case, what constitutes.
478. Issues, how tried, and judgment. .
474. Proceedings on offer to compromise suit.
Seo. 468. "When a judgment is recovered against one
0r more of several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation, by proceeding as provided in section thirty-two,
those who were not originally served with the summons
and did not anpear to the action may be summoned to
show cause why they should not be bound by the judg
ment, in the same manner as though they had been orig
inally served with the summons.
Sec. 469. The summons, as provided in the last sec
tion, shall describe the judgment, and require the person
summoned to show cause why he should not be Dound
by it, and shall be served in the same manner, and re
turnable within the same time, as the original summons.
It shall not be necessary to file a new complaint.
Sec. 470. The summons shall be accompanied by an
affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or at
torney, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied, and shall specify the amount due thereon.
Sec. 471. Upon such summons, the defendant may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the
judgment or setting up any defense which may have
arisen subsequently, or he may deny his liability on the
obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, ex
cept a discharge from such liability by the statute of
limitation.
Sec. 472. If the defendant in his answer deny the
judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen
subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed,
and the answer shall constitute the written allegations in
the case. If he deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered, a copy oi the origi
nal complaint and judgment, summons, with the affidavit
annexed, and the answer, shall constitute such written
allegations.
Sec. 473. The issues formed may be tried as in other
cases ; but when the defendant denies in his answer any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall be
for the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original
judgment, with interest thereon.
Offer of the Defendant to Compromise the Whole
or at Part of an Action.
Seo. 474. The defendant may, at any time before
the trial or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff an offer
to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum
or property, or to the effect therein specified. If the
plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof within
five days, he may file the offer, with an affidavit of
notice of acceptance, and the clerk shall enter judgment
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given,
the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be
given in evidence ; and if the plaintifff fail to recover a
more favorable judgment, he shall not recover costs,
but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the
offer.
Sec. 475. Any court in which an action is pending,
or a judge thereof, or a probate judge, may, upon notice,
order either party to give to the other, within a specified
time, an inspection and copy, or permission to lake a
copy of entries of accounts in any book or of any docu
ment or paper in his possession, or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action
or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the court may exclude the entries of accounts of
the book, or the document or paper, from being given in
evidence ; or, if wanted as evidence by the party apply
ing, may direct the jury to presume them to be such as
he alleges them to be ; and the court may also punish
the party refusing for a contempt. This section is not
to be construed to prevent a party from compelling an
other to produce books, papers, or documents when he is
examined as a witness.
Sec. 476. There shall be no evidence of the contents
of a writing other than the writing itself, except in the
following cases :
First—When the original has been lost or destroyed,
in which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first
be made.
Second—When the original is in the possession of the
party against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails
to produce it after reasonable notice.
Third—When the original is a record or other docu
ment in the custody of a public officer.
Fourth—When the original has been recorded, and a
certified copy • of the record is made evidence by the
statute.
Fifth—When the original consists of numerous ac
counts, or other documents, which cannot be examined
in court without great loss of time, and the evidence
sought from them is only the general result of the
whole.
Sec. 477. The party producing a writing as genuine
which has been altered after its execution in a part ma
terial to the question in dispute, and such alteration is
not noted on the writing, shall account for the appear
ance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another, without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or other
wise properly or innocently made. If he do that, he
may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.
Sec. 478. A judicial record of this Territory, or of
the United States, may be proved by the production of
the original, or a copy thereof, certified by the clerk or
other person having a legal custody thereof, under the
seal of the court, to be a true copy of such record.
Sec. 479. The records and judicial proceedings of the
courts of any State or Territory of the United States
may be proved or admitted in the courts of this Terri
tory by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the
court annexed (if there be a seal), together with a certifi
cate of the judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate,
as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due
form.
Sec. 480. A judicial record of a foreign country may
be proved by the production of a copy thereof, certified
by the clerk with the seal of the court annexed (if there
be a clerk and seal), or by the legal keeper of the record,
with the seal of his office annexed (if there he a seal), to
be a true copy of such record, together with a certificate
of a judge oi the court that the person making the cer
tificate is the clerk of the court or legal keeper of the
record, and in either case that the signature is genuine
and the certificate in due form ; and also, together with
the certificate of the minister or embassador of the
United States, or of a consul of the United States in
such foreign country, that there is such a court, specify
ing generally the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying
the signatures of the judge and clerk, or other legal
keeper of the record.
Sec. 481. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country shall also be admissible in evidence upon proof :
First, that the copy offered has been compared by the
witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of
the whole of it ; second, that such original was in the
custody of the clerk of the court, or other legal keeper
of the same ; and, third, that the copy is duly attested
by a seal, which is proved to be the seal of the court I
or, if there be no such seal, or if it be not a record of a
court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the
original.
Sec. 482. Printed copies in volumes of statutes,
codes, or other written law, enacted by any other State
or Territory, or foreign government., purporting or
proved to have been published by the authority thereof,
or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the
existing law in the courts and judicial tribunals of such
State, Territory, or government, shall be admitted by
the courts and officers of this Territory, on all occasions,
as presumptive evidence of such laWs.
Sec. 4S3. A seal of a court or public officer, when
required to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to
authenticate a copy of any record or document, may be
impressed with wax, wafer, or any substance, and then
attached to the writ, process, or proceeding, or to the
copy of the record or document, or it may be impressed
on the paper alone.
CHAPTEE XXXI.
Of Motions, Orders, Service of Papers, and
Miscellaneous Provisions.
Section 484.,
Order and motion defined.
48S.
Motions and orders, where made.
48*5.
Notice of motion, at what time to be given.
487,
Transfer of motions, and orders to show cause.
488.
Order for payment of money, how enforced.
48!). Notices and papers, how served.
490.
When and how served.
491.
Service by mall, when.
492. Service by mail, how.
493.
Appearance ; notice after appearance.
494.
6ervice on non residents ; notice to be served on attorney.
4(fi.
Service by telegraph.
49(1. Time, how computed.
497. When time may be extended.
Sec. 484. Every direction of a court or judge made
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment,
is denominated an "order." An application for an
order is a " motion."
Sec. 485. Motions shall be made in the county in
which the action is brought, or in an adjoining county
in the same district. Orders made out of court mav be
made by the judge of the court in any part of the Ter
ritory.
SECi 486. When a written notice of a motion is
necessary, it shall be given, if the court be held in the
same district with both parties, five days before the
time appointed for the hearing; otherwise, ten days.
When the notice is served by mail, the number of days
before the hearing must be increased one day for every
twenty miles of distance between the place of deposit
and the place of service ; such increase, however, not to
exceed in all sixty days; but the court, or judge, or
probate judge, may prescribe a shorter time.
Sec. 487. When a notice of motion is given, or an
order to show cause is made returnable before a judge
out of court, and at the time fixed for the motion, or on
the return day of the order, the judge is unable to hear
the parties, the matter may be transferrred by his order
to some other judge before whom it might originally
have been brought.
Sec. 488. Whenever an order for the payment of a
sum of money is made by a court pursuant to the provisions of this act, it may be enforced by executions in
the same manner as if it were a judgment.
Sec. 489. Notices must be in writing, and notices
and other papers may be served upon the party or attorney in the manner prescribed by this act, when not other
wise provided by this act.
Sec. 490. The service may be personal, by delivery
to the party or attorney on whom the service is required
to be made, or it may be as follows :
First—If upon an attorney, it may be made during
his absence from his office, by leaving the notice or
other papers with his clerk therein, or with a person
having charge thereof ; or, when there is no person in
the office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight
in the morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous
place in the office ; or, if it be not open, so a& to admit
of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney's
residence with some person of suitable age and discre
tion; and if his residence be not known, then by putting
the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the post-office,,
directed to such attorney.
Second—If upon a party, it may be made by leaving
the notice, or other paper, at his residence, between the
hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion ; and if
his residence be not known, by putting the same, en
closed in an envelope, into the post-office, directed to
such party.
Sec. 491. Service by mail may be made when the,
person making the service, and the person on whom it is
to be made, reside or have their offices in different places,
between which there is a regular communication by
mail.
Sec. 492. In case of service by mail, the notice, or
other paper, must be deposited m the post-office ad
dressed to the person on wliom it is to be served, at his
office or place of residence, and the postage paid. The ■
service is complete at the time of deposit ; but if, within
a given number of days after such service a right may
be exercised or an act is to be done by the adverse party,
the time within which such right may be exercised or
act be done is extended one day for every twenty miles'
distance between the place of deposit and the place of
address ; such extension, however, not to exceed sixty
days in all.
Sec. 493. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in
an action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff
written notice of his appearance, or when an attorney
gives notice for him. After appearance, a defendant, or
his attorney, shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent
proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But
where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or
paper need not be made upon him, unless he be impris
oned Jfor want of bail.
Sec. 494. When a plaintifff or a defendant who has
appeared resides out of the Territory, and has noattorney
in the action or proceeding, the service may
be made on the clerk for him. But in all cases where a
party has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service of papers, when required, shall be upon the
attorney instead of the party, except of subpoenas, of
writs, and other process issued in the suit, and of papers
to bring him into contempt. The foregoing provisions
of this chapter do not apply to the service or a summons
or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into
contempt.
Sec. 495. Any summons, writ or order in any civil
suit or proceeding, and all other papers requiring service,
may be transmitted by telegraph for service in any place,
and the telegraphic copy of such writ, or order, or papers
so transmitted may be served or executed by the officer'
or person to whom it is sent for that purpose, and re
turned by him, if any return be requisite, in the sarile
manner and with the same force and effect in all
respects as the original thereof might be delivered to
him, and the officer or person serving or executing the
same has the same authority, and is subject to the same
liabilities, as if the copy were the original. The original,
when a writ or order, must also be filed in the court
from which it was issued, and a certified copy thereof
must be preserved in the telegraph office from which it
was sent. In sending it either the original or the certi
fied copy may be used by the operator for that purpose.
Whenever any document to be sent by telegraph bears a
seal, either private or official, it is not necessary for the
operator, in sending the same, to telegraph a description
of the seal, or any words or device thereon ; but the
same may be expressed in the telegraphic copy by the
letters, "L. S.," or by the word "Seal."
Sec. 496. The time within which an act is to be
done, as provided in this act, shall be computed by exeluding the first day and including the last. If the last
day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Sec. 497. When an act is to be done, as provided in
this act, relates to the pleadings in the action, or the
undertaking to be filed, or the justification of sureties, or
the preparations of statements, or the bills of exceptions
or of amendments thereto, or to the service of notices
other than of appeal, the time allowed by the act may
be extended, upon good cause shown, by the court in
which the action is pending, or the judge thereof, or, in
the absence of such judge, from the county in which the
action is pending, by the probate judge ; but such exten
sion shall not exceed twenty days without the consent of
the adverse party.
Sec. 498. The measure and mode of compensation
of attorneys and counsellors at law shall be left to the
agreement, express or implied," of the parties ; but there
shall be allowed to the prevailing party in any action in
the Supreme Court, district courts, and probate courts,
his costs and necessary disbursements in the action, or
special proceedings in the nature of the action.
Sec. 499. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the
plaintifff upon a judgment in his favor in the following
cases:
First—In an action for the recovery of real property.
Second—In an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property when the value of the property amounts
to one hundred dollars or over. Such value shall be
determined by the jury, court or referee by whom the
action is tried.
Third—In an action for the recovery of money or
damages when the plaintifff recovers one hundred dollars
or over.
Fourth—In a special proceeding in the nature of an
action.
Fifth—In an action which involves the title or posses
sion of real estate or the equality of any tax, impost, as
sessment, toll or municipal fine.
Sec. 500. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or
other instrument in writing, or in any other case for the
same cause of action, against several parties who might
have joined as defendants in the same action, no costs
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such
actions, which may be at his election, if the party pro
ceeded against in the other actions were, at the com
mencement of the previons action, openly within this
Territory ; but the disbursements of the plaintifff shall
be allowed to him in each action.
Sec. 501. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the
defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the action
mentioned in section 499 and special proceedings in the
nature of the action.
Sec. 502. In ofher actions than those mentioned in section 499 costs may be allowed or not ; and if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties, or the same or
adverse sides, in the discretion of the court ; but no costs
shall be allowed in an action in a district court for the
recovery of money or damages when the plaintifff recov
ere less than one hundred dollars, nor in an action to re
cover the possession of personal property when the value
of the property is less than one hundred dollars.
Sec. 503. When there are several defendants in the
actions mentioned in section 499 not united in interest
and making separate defenses by separate answers, and
the plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the
court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have
judgment in their favor.
Sec. 504. In the following cases the costs of an
appeal shall be in the discretion of the court :
First—When a new trial is ordered.
Second—When the judgment is modified.
Sec. 505. The fees of referees shall be six dollars to
each for every day spent in the business of the reference,
and the parties shall not agree upon any other rate of
compensation in writing, nor shall any other rate of com
pensation be allowed by the courts.
Sec. 506. When an application is made to a court or
referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the postponement may be imposed, in the discretion
of the court or referee, as a condition of granting
the same.
Sec. 507. When, in an action for the recovery of
money only, the defendant alleges in his answer that,
before the commencement of the action, he tendered to
the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled,
and thereupon deposits in court for the plaintifff the
amount so tendered, and the allegation be found to be
true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but shall pay
costs to the defendant.
Sec. 503. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered
as in an action by and against a person prosecu
ting or defending in his own right ; but such costs shall,
by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon the
estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court shall
direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant,
personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in the action
or defense.
Sec. 509. When the decision of a court of inferior
jurisdiction, in a special proceeding, is brought before a
court of higher jurisdiction for a review in any other
way than by appeal, the same costs shall be allowed as in
cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or in
such manner as the court may direct, according to the
nature of the case.
Sec. 510. The party in whose favor judgment is
rendered, and who claims his costs, must deliver to the
clerk of the court, within two days after the verdiet or
notice of the decision of the court or referee, or if the
entry of judgment on the. verdict of the decision be
stayed, then before such entry is made, a memorandum
of the items of his costs and necessary disbursements in
the action or proceeding, which memorandum must be
verified by the oath of the party or his attorney, or
agent, or by the clerk of his attorney, stating that, to the
best of his knowledge and belief, the items are correct,
and that the disbursements have been necessarily in
creased in the action or proceeding. A party dissatisfied
with the costs claimed may, on motion, and on notice to
the adverse party, within two days, have the same retaxed
by the court in which the judgment was rendered,
or by the judge thereof at chambers.
Sec. 511. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by
&n- apPellate court> if he claims such costs, he must,
within twenty days after the remittitur is filed with the
c]erk below, deliver to such clerk a memorandum of his
costs, verified as prescribed in the preceding section, and
thereafter he may have an execution therefore as upon a
judgment.
^Ea 512- ^^ c^er^- must include in the judgment
entered UP DV mm any interest on the verdict or decision
of the court from the time it was rendered or made, and
the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained ;
and he must, within two days after the same are taxed
or ascertained, if not included in the judgment, insert
the same in a blank left in the judgment for that pur
pose, and must make a similar insertion of the costs in
the copies and docket of the judgment,
Sec. 513. When the plaintifff in an action resides ont
°f tne Territory, or is a foreign corporation, security for
the costs and charges which may be awarded against
such plaintifff may be required by the defendant. When
required, all proceedings in the action shall be stayed
until an undertaking, executed by two or more persons,,
is filed with the clerk, to the effect that they will pay
such costs and charges as may be awarded against the
plaintifff by judgment, or in the progress of the action,
not exceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new
or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the
court or judge, upon proof that the original undertaking
is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action
stayed until such new or additional undertaking is exe
cuted and filed.
Sec. 514. After the lapse of thirty days from the H
service of notice that security is required, or of an order
for new or additional security, upon proof thereof, and
that no undertaking, as required, has been filed, the court
or iudge may order the action to be dismissed.
Sec. 515. When the Territory is a party, and costs
are awarded against it, they must be paid out of the
Territorial treasury.
Sec. 516. When a county is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the county
treasury.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
General Provisions.
'Section 517. Lost papers, how supplied.
618. Papers, defective titles held good, when.
619. Successive actions on same contract.
530. Consolidation of actions.
621. Actions to determine adverse claims.
522. When the clerk may take testimony.
623. Clerk to keep registers.
524. Three referees must meet ; two may act.
626. Actions against sheriffs for official acts.
528. Requisites of undertakings.
527. Who not required to give bonds .
628. When surety paying judgment subBtitntedSec. 517. If an original pleading or paper be lost,
the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and
used instead of the original.
Sec. 518. An affidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the action or proceeding in which it fis
made, or with a defective title, shall be as valid and
effectual for Any purpose as if duly entitled, if it "intelli
gibly refer to -such action or proceeding.
Sec. 519. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract or transaction whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action arise therefrom.
Sec. 520. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between the same parties and in the same
court upon causes iof actions which might have been
joined, the court may order the actions to be consoli
dated.
Sec. 521. An action may be brought by one person
against another for the purpose of determining an avderse
aim which the latter makes against the former, fo
money or property, upon an alleged obligation ; and also
against two or more person3 for the purpose of compel
ling one to satisfy a debt due to the other for which the
plaintifff is bound as security.
Sec. 522. On the trial of an action in a court of
record, if there is no official reporter of the court in
attendance, either party may require the clerk to take
down testimony in writing.
Sec. 523. The clerk shall keep among the records of
the court two registers of actions. He shall enter in
them the title of the action, with brief notes under it,
from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings
had therein.
Sec. 524. When there are three referees, or three
arbitrators, all shall meet, but two of them may do any
act which might be done by all.
Sec. 525. If an action is brought against a sheriff
for an act done by virtue of his office, and he gives
written notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of in
demnity received by him, the judgment recovered there
in is conclusive evidence of his right to recover against
such sureties ; and the court, or the judge in vacation,
may, on motion, upon notice of five days, order judg
ment to be entered up against them for the amount so
recovered, including costs.
Sec. 526. In all cases where an undertaking with
sureties is required by the provisions of this act, the
officer taking the same must require the sureties to ac
company it with an affidavit that they are each residents
and nouseholders, or freeholders, within the Territory,
and are each worth the sum specified in the undertaking
over and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclu
sive of property exempt from execution ; but when the
amount specified in the undertaking exceeds- two thou
sand dollars, and there are more than two sureties there
on, they may state in their affidavits that they are seve
rally worth amounts less than that expressed in th&
undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that
of two sufficient sureties.
Sec. 527. In any civil action or proceeding wherein
the Territory or the people of the Territory is a party
plaintifff, or any Territorial officer, in his official capacity
or on behalf of the Territory, or any county, city or
town, is a party plaintifff or defendant, no bond, written
undertaking or security can be required of the Territory,
or the people thereof^ or any officer thereof, or of any
county, city, or town ; but on complying with the other
provisions of this act, the Territory, or the people there
of, or any Territorial officer acting in his official capacity,
shall have the same rights, remedies and benefits as if the
bond, undertaking or security were given and approved
as required by this act.
Sec. 528. Whenever any surety on an undertaking
on appeal, executed to stay proceedings upon a money
judgment, pays the judgment, either with or without
action, after its affirmation by the appellate court, he shall
be substituted to the rights of the judgment creditor, and
shall be entitled to control, enforce and satisfy such judg
ment in all respects as if he had recovered the same.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
Of Special Proceedings of a Civil Nature.
Bxctiok 519.
630.
Parties how designated.
Judgment In, what is.
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.
Sec. 529. The party prosecuting a special proceeding
may be krown as the plaintifff, and the adverse party
ae_the defendant.
Sec. 530. A judgment in a special proceeding is the
final determination of the rights of the parties therein.
The definitions of a motion and an order in a civil action
are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding.
CHAPTER XXXV.
The Writ of Certiorari, or Review.
Section 533.
When and by what courts granted.
588.
Application for, how made.
534.
The writ, to whom directed.
535.
Contents of the writ.
530. Stay of proceedings.
537.
Service of the writ.
MB.
Extent of the review.
53!). Proceedings on return ; judgment.
WO.
Transmission of ccpy of Judgment.
541. Judgment-roll.
Sec. 531. The writ of certiorari may be denominated
the " writ of review."
Sec. 532. This writ may be granted on application
by .any court of this Territory except a justice's or pro
bate court. The writ shall be granted in all cases where
an inferior tribunal, board, or officer exercising judicial
functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribu
nal, board, or officer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the
judgment of the court, any plain, speedy and adequate
remedy.
Sec. 533. The application shall be made on affidavit
by the party beneficially interested, and the court may
require a notice of the application to be given to the
adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why
it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
notice.
Sec. 534. The- writ may be directed to the inferior
tribunal, board, or officer, or to any other person having
the custody of the record or proceedings to be certified.
When directed to a tribunal the clerk, if there be one,
shall return the writ, with the transcript required.
Sec. 535. The writ of review shall command the
party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the court
issuing the writ, at a specified time and place, a tran
script of the record and proceedings (describing or refer
ring to them with convenient certainty), that the same
may be reviewed by the court, and requiring the party,
in the meantime, to desist from further proceedings in.
the matter to be reviewed.
Sec. 536. If a stay of proceedings be not intended,
the words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the
writ. These words may be inserted or omitted, in the
sound discretion of the court ; but if omitted, the power
of the inferior court or officer shall not be suspended nor
the proceedings stayed.
Sec. 537. The writ shall be served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action, except when
otherwise expressly directed by the court.
Sec. 538. The review on this writ shall not be ex
tended further than to determine whether the inferior
tribunal, board, or officer has regularly pursued the
authority of such tribunal, board, or officer.
Sec. 539. If the return of the writ be defective, the
court may order a further return to be made. When a
full return has been made, the court shall proceed to
hear the parties, or such of them as shall attend for
that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, .either
affirming, or annulling, or modifying the proceedings
below.
Sec. 540. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
clerk, shall be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board
or officer having the custody of the record or proceeding
certified to.
Sec. 541. A copy of the judgment, signed by the
clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ and return,
shall constitute the judgment-roll.
CHAPTEE XXXVI.
The Writ of Mandate.
Sectiou 542. Mandate defined.
GI3. By what court issued.
544. When and upon what to issne.
645. Character of the writ ; object of.
54B. The alternative and perem itory writ.
547. The answer on return of writ.
548. Court may order questions of fact submitted to a jury.
549. Applicant may demur or countervail answer by proof.
650. Motion for new trial, when made.
551. When clerk to transmit verdict ; hearing to be had.
562. How case to be heard when no answer made, etc.
553. Judgment on recovery by applicant.
454. Service of the Writ.
555. Penalty for disobeying the writ.
Sec. 542. The writ of mandamus must hereafter be
denominated the " writ of mandate."
Sec, 543. It may be issued by any court in this Ter
ritory, except by a justice's or probate court, to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel
the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins
as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station, or to
compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoy
ment of a right or office to which he is entitled and from
which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior tri
bunal, corporation, board or person.
Sec. 544. This writ shall be issued in all cases where
there is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the
ordinary course of law. It shall be issued upon affidavit
on the application of the party beneficially interested.
Sec. 545. The writ may be either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ shall state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and
command such party, immediately after the receipt of
the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act
required to be performed, or to show cause before court,
at a specified time and place, why lie lias not done so.
The peremptory writ shall be in a similar form, except
the words requiring the party to show cause why he has
not done as commanded shall be omitted, and a return
day inserted.
Sec. 546. When the application to the court is made
without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be
allowed, the alternative shall be first issued ; but if the
application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed,
the peremptory may be issued in the first instance. The
notice of the application, when given, shall be at least
ten days. The writ shall not be granted by default.
The case shall be heard by the court, whether the adverse
party appear or not.
Sec. 547. On the return day of the alternative, or
the day on which the application for the writ is noticed,
or such further day as the court may allow, the party on
whom the notice snail have been served may show cause"
by answer under oath, made in the same manner as an
answer to a complaint in a civil action.
Sec. 548. If an answer be made which raises a ques
tion as to a matter of fact essential to the determination
of the motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the
parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allegation on
which the application of the writ is based, the court may,
in its discretion, order the question to be tried before a
i'ury, and postpone the argument until such trial can be
tad and the verdict certified to the court. The question
to be tried shall be distinctly stated in the order for
trial, and the county shall be designated in which the
same shall be had. The order may also direct the juryto
assess any damages which the applicant may have sus
tained in case they find for him.
Sec. 549. On the trial the applicant shall not be pre
cluded by the answer of any valid objection to its suffi
ciency, and may countervail it by proof, either in direct
denial or by way of avoidance.
Sec. 550. The motion for a new trial must be made
in the court in which the issue of fact is tried.
Sec. 551. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be
given, or, if given, be denied, the clerk, within five days
after the rendition of the verdict or denial of the motion,
shall transmit to the court in which the application for
the writ is pending a certified copy of the verdict
attached to the order of trial ; after which either party
may bring on the argument of the application, upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party.
Sec. 552. If no answer be made, the- case must be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If the answer
raises only questions of law, or puts in issue immaterial
statements not affecting the substantial rights of the
Earties, the court must proceed to hear, or fax a day for
earing the argument of the case.
Sec. 553. If the judgment be given f©r the appli
cant, he may recover the damages which he has sustained
as found by the jury, or as may be determined by the
court or referees, upon a reference to be ordered, to
gether with costs; and for snch damages and costs an
execution may issue, and a peremptory mandate shall
also be awarded without delay.
The writ shall be served in the same
a summons in a civil action, except when
Sec. 554
manner as
otherwise expressly directed by order of the court. Ser
vice upon a majority of the members of any board or
body is service upon the board or body, whether at the
time of the service the board or body was in session or
not.
Sec. 555. When a peremptory mandate has been
issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person, if it appear to the court that any mem
ber of such tribunal, corporation or board, or such person
upon whom the writ has been personally served, has,
without just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the
same, the court may, upon motion, impose a fine not ex
ceeding one thousand dollars. In case of persistence in
a refusal of obedience, the court may order the party to
be imprisoned until the writ is obeyed, and. may make
any orders necessary and proper for the complete en
forcement of the writ.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
The Writ of Prohibition.
Sectio* 656. Prohibition defined.
567. By what courts and how issued.
658. The writ may be alternative or peremptory.
659. Certain preceding sections applicable.
Sec. 556. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart
of the writ of mandate. It arrests the proceedings of
any tribunal, corporation, board, or person, when sncb
proceedings are without or in excess of the jurisdiction
of such tribunal, corporation, board, or person.
Sec. 557. It may be issued by any court, except jus
tices' or probate courts, to an inferior tribunal, or to a
corporation, board, or person, in all cases where there is
not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of law. It is issued upon affidavit on the appb>
cation of the person beneficially interested.
Seo. 558. The Writ must be either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ must state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and
command such party to desist or refrain from further
proceedings or action in the matter specified therein
until the further order of the court from which it is
issued, and to show cause before such court, at a speci
fied time and place, why such party should not be
absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in
such action or matter. The peremptory writ must be
in a similar form, except that the words requiring the
party to show cause why he should not be absolutely
restrained, etc., must be omitted, and a return day
inserted.
Sec. 559. The provisions of the preceding chapter,
except of the first four sections thereof, apply to this
proceeding.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
Writs of Review, Mandate, and Prohibition may
Issue and be Heard at Chambers.
Sectioh 560. When may be issued and heard.
Sec. 560. Writs of review, mandate and prohibition
may be issued by any justice of the Supreme Court,
or by any district judge, in vacation, and may, in the
discretion of such justice or judge issuing tbe writ,
be made returnable, and a hearing had thereon in
vacation.
Sec. 561. Except as otherwise provided in the four
preceding chapters, the provisions of this act concerning
rules of practice in civil actions are applicable to and
constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings men
tioned in the four preceding chapters.
Sec. 562. The provisions of this act relative to new
trials and appeals, except in so far as they are inconsis
tent with the four preceding chapters, apply to the pro
ceedings mentioned in the four preceding chapters.
CHAPTER XL.
Of Summary Proceedings.
Section 563. Judgment by confession may be entered.
564. Statement In writing, form ol.
565. Filing statement and entering Judgment.
566. How in justices' courts.
567. Controversy, bow submitted.
568. Judgment roll .
569. Judgment, how enforced or appealed from.
CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.
Sec. 563. A judgment by confession may be entered
without action, either for money due or to become due,
or to secure any person against contingent liability on
behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner pre
scribed in this chapter. Such judgment may be entered
in any court having jurisdiction for like amounts.
Sec. 564. A statement in writing shall be made,
signed by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the
following effect :
First—It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a
specified sum.
Second-It it be for money due or to become due, it
shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and
shall show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due
or to become due.
Third—If it be for the purpose of securing the
plaintifff against a contingent liability, it shall state
concisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed
the same.
Sec. 565. The statement shall be filed with the clerk
of the court in which the judgment is to be entered, who
shall endorse upon it and enter in the judgment book a
judgment of such court for the amount confessed, with
ten dollars costs. The statement and affidavit, with the
judgment endorsed, shall thereupon become the judg
ment-roll.
Sec. 566. In a justice's court where a judgment is
entered by confession, the statement may be filed with
the justice, who must thereupon enter a judgment of his
court in his docket for the amount confessed, with ten
dollars costs. If a transcript of such judgment be filed
with a county recorder, a copy of the statement must be
filed with it.
SUBMITTING A C0NTK0VEB8T WITHOUT ACTION.
Sec. 567. Parties to a question in difference which
migat be the subject of a civil action, may, without
action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon which
the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if
an action had been brought ; but it must appear by affi
davit that the controversy is real and the proceedings in
good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The
court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and
render judgment thereon, as if an action were depend
ing.
Sec. 568. Judgment shall be entered in the judg
ment book, as in other cases, but without costs, for any
proceeding prior to the trial. The case, the submission,
and a copy of the judgment constitute the judgmentroll.
Sec. 569. The judgment may be enforced in
the same manner as if it had been rendered in an
action, and shall be in the same manner subject to
appeal.
Sec. 570. No person or persons shall hereafter make
an entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions,
but in cases where entry is given by law ; and in such
cases not with strong hand, nor with multitude of people,
but only in a peaceable manner ; and if any from hence
forth do to the contrary, and therefore be duly eonvicted,
he shall be punished by fine.
Sec. 5T1. Any justice of the peace shall hare authority to inquire, as hereinafter directed, as well against
those who make unlawful or forcible entry into lands,
tenements, or other possessions, and detain the same, as
against those who, having lawful and peaceful entry into
lands, tenements, or other possessions, unlawfully detain
the same ; and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that an
unlawful or forcible entry hath been made, and that the
said lands, tenements, or other possessions, after a lawful
entry, are held unlawfully, then such justice shall cause
the party complaining to have restitution thereof.
Sec. 572. When any complaint shall be made in
writing to any justice of the peace of any such unlawful
or forcible entry, or unlawful detainer, said justice shall
issue a summons, directed to the sheriff or any constable
of the county, commanding him to summon the person
or persons against whom such complaint shall have been
made, to appear before the said justice on a day in such
summons named, which shall not be less than four nor
more than ten days from the issuing of such summons,
and at the place therein mentioned.
Sec. 578. Such summons shall be served upon the
person or persons against whom the same is issued by
delivering a certified copy thereof to such person or per
sons at least four days before the return day thereof ;
and the officer serving the same shall make a special
return of the time, place, and manner of serving such
summons.
Sec. 574. After the return of the summons, served
as hereinbefore provided, and at the time and place ap
pointed in said summons, the justice shall proceed to
hear and determine said complaint, unless either party
shall demand a jury, in which case the justice shall issue
a venire for a jury, in the same manner and upon the
same terms as in. other cases provided for trial by jury
in justices' courts, and such jury shall be sworn as in
other cases.
Sec. 575. If, at the time of malting such complaint,
it shall be made to appear that the person or persons
against whom said complaint is made, or either of them,
are absent from the county, it shall be the duty of the
justice beffflre whom the same is made to issue his sum
mons, as hereinbefore provided, and the same may be
served by leaving a certified copy thereof at the last and
usual place of abode of Buch person or persons, not less
than four days before the return day thereof, which copy
shall be left with some member of the family,, or some
person residing at such place, of suitable age and discre
tion, to whom the contents thereof shall be explained by
the officer leaving the same, and the officer shall make a.
special return of the time, place and manner of eervingsaid
summons, and the suit shall thereafter proceed the
same as- though a personal service were had of such sum
mons.
Sec. 576, The justice may, in his discretion, adjourn
any trial under this act, not exceeding ten days ; and
when the defendant, his agent or attorney shall make
oath that he cannot safely proceed to trial for want of
some material witness (naming him) ; that he has made
due exertion to obtain such witness ; and believes, if an
adjournment be allowed, he will be able to procure the
attendance of such witness, or his deposition, in time to
produce the same upon the trial ; in which case, if such
person or persons will give bond, with one or more suf
ficient sureties, conditioned to pay the said complainant
for all rent that may accrue during the pending of such
suit and all costs and damages consequent upon such ad
journment, the said justice shall adjourn said cause for
such reasonable time as maj' appear necessary, not ex
ceeding three months.
Sec. 577. The testimony of any witness which may
be considered necessary by either party may be taken in
the same manner and with like effect as is provided for
the taking of testimony in other cases in justices' courts.
Sec. 578. On the trial the plaintifff shall only be
required to show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer complained of, that he was peaceably in actual
possession at the time of a forcible entry, or was entitled
to the possession of the premises at the time of a forcible
holding over. The defendant may show in his defense
that he, or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such
premises he claims, have been in quiet possession thereof
tor the space of one whole year together next before the
said inquisition, and that his interest therein is not then
ended or determined ; and such showing shall be a bar
to the prosecution ; and in ino case when the title of land
is necessarily involved shall a justice of the peace have
cognizance.
Sec. 579. If upon the trial of any complaint under
this act the justice or jury shall find the defendant or
defendants, or either of them, guilty of the allegations
in the complaint, said justice shall thereupon enter judg
ment for the plaintifff to have restoration of the prem
ises, and shall impose such fine, not exceeding one hun
dred dollars, considering all the circumstances, as he
may deem just, and shall tax the costs for the complain
ant, and may issue execution therefore ; and the said jus
tice shall also award and issue a writ of restitution ; but
if the said justice or jury find that the person complained
of is not guilty, the justice shall tax the costs against the
complainant, and issue execution therefore.
Sec. 580. If the jury empaneled cannot agree upon
a verdict, the justice may, with the consent of the parties,
discharge them and issue a venire, returnable forthwith,
or at some other time agreed upon by the parties.
Sec. 581. In all cases of a verdict by a justice or
jury for the complainant, the damages shall be assessed
as well for waste and injury committed upon the prem
ises as for the rents and profits during such detainer, and
the verdict shall also find the monthly value of the rents
and profits of the said premises ; and the complainant
shall be entitled to recover treble damages against the
persons against whom judgment has been rendered,
which damages shall be assessed by the justice or jury,
and when so assessed shall be trebled by Baid justice, and
entered as a judgment in the cause, upon which execu
tion may issue.
Sec. 5S2. When any person shall hold over any
lands, tenements, or other possessions, after the termina
tion of the time for which they are demised, or let to
him or her, or to the person under whom he or she holds
possession, or contrary to the conditions or covenants of
the lease or agreement under which he or she holds, or
after any rent shall become due according to the terms
of such lease or agreement, and shall remain unpaid for
the space of three clays ; in all such cases, if the lessor,
his heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, agent, or at
torney, shall make demand in writing of such tenant that
he or she shall deliver possession of the premises held as
aforesaid, and if such tenant shall refuse or neglect, for
the spaoe of three days after such demand, to quit the
possession of such land* or tenements, or to pay the rent
thereof, due and unpaid as aforesaid, upon complaint
therefore to a justice of the peace of the proper county,
the justice shall proceed to hear, try, and determine the
same in the same manner as in other cases hereinbefore
provided for, but shall impose no fine upon any such
case mentioned in this section.
Sec. 583. The preceding section shall not extend to
any person who has or shall have continued in posses
sion one year after the termination of the time for which
the premises were demised, or leased, or let to him or
her, or those under whom he or she holds possession, to
any person who continues in possession three year*
quietly and peaceably.
Sec. 584. Every person summoned as a juror or
subpoenaed as a witness who shall not appear, or who,
appearing, shall refuse to serve or give evidence in any
prosecution instituted under this act, shall forfeit and
pay for any such default or refusal, to the use of the
county, unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such
fine, not exceeding twenty dollars, as the said justice shall
think proper to impose, and execution may be issued
therefore.
Sec. 585. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the
verdict of the jury or decision of the justice, he may
appeal within ten days, as in other cases tried before jus
tices of the peace, to the district court, and he shall give
bond, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by said justice, conditioned to pay all costs of guch
appeal, and abide the order the court may make therein,
and pay all rent and other damages justly accruing
during the pendency of such appeal ; and upon the filing
of the notice of appeal, and the affidavit of the appellant
that the appeal i6 taken in good faith, and that he in
tends to perfect said appeal, the justice shall grant a stay
of the writ of restitution, for not exceeding two days,
for the purpose of allowing the appellant an opportunity
to file his appeal bond, and for no other.
Sec. 586. Upon taking such appeal, all further pro
ceedings .in the case shall be thereby stayed, and the
appellate court, in all cases which are now pending, or
which may hereafter be brought, shall proceed to try the
case anew, and shall issue all necessary writs and process
to carry out the provisions of this act. All laws, or
parts of laws, which require a statement of the case, or
evidence, or exceptions, to be taken before a justice of
the peace, on the trial of a case for forcible entry and
unlawful detainer, in order to perfect an appeal, are
hereby repealed, and the same shall be tried in the appel
late court on the evidence introduced before said appel
late eourt.
Sec. 587. If a writ of restitution shall have been
issued previous to the taking of the appeal, the justice
shall give the appellant a certificate of the allowance of
such appeal; and upon the serving of such certificate
upon the officer having such writ of restitution, said
officer shall cease all further proceedings by virtue of
such writ ; and if such writ shall not have been com
pletely executed, the parties in possession shall remain in
possession of the premises until the appeal shall be
determined.
Sec. 5S8. In all cases of appeal under this act the
appellate court shall not dismiss or qnash the proceed
ings for want of form, only provided the proceedings
shall have been conducted substantially according to the
provisions of this act.
Sec. 589. Amendments to the complaint, answer or
summons, in matters of form only, may be allowed by
the court at any time before final judgment, upon such
terms as may be just; and all matters of excuse, justifi
cation, or avoidance of the allegations in the complaint,
may be given in evidence under the answer.
Sec. 590. The following or equivalent forms may be
used in proceedings under this act—to wit :
SUMMONS.
The People of the United St«tes of the Territory of
Idaho to the Sheriff or auy Constable of the County
aforesaid :
Whereas, A. B., of the county of — , hath exhib
ited unto me, a justice of the peace for said county, a com
plaint against 0. I>., of the county of , for that the
said C. D., of the county of , on the day of
, A. D. , at the county of , [here insert the sub
stance of the complaint with sufficient certainty].
You are thereforee commanded, To summon the said
C. D., if he be found in your county, to be and appear
before me, at my office, [or stating the place,] on the day
of , A. D. , then and there to make answer to the
complaint aforesaid.
Given under my hand and seal, this day
of , A. D. .
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 591—WBIT OF RESTITUTION.
The People of the United States of the Territory of
Idaho to the Sheriff or any Constable of the County
aforesaid :
"Whereas, A. B., of the county of , at a court of
inquiry of an unlawful or forcible detainer, [as the case may be.]
held at my office, [or stale the place,] in the county aforesaid,
on the day of , A. D. , before me, a justice
of the peace for the county aforesaid, by the consideration
of the court, hath recovered judgment against C. D., to
have restitution of [here describe the premises, as in the complaint].
You are thereforee commanded, That, taking with you
the force of the county, if necessary, you cause the said
C. D. to be immediately removed from the aforesaid prem
ises, and the said A. B. to have peaceable restitution of the
same.
And you are also commanded, That, of the goods and
chattels of the said C. D., within said county, you cause to
be made the sum of dollars for the said plaintifff, to
gether with costs of suit endorsed thereon, and make return
hereof within thirty days from this date.
Given under my hand this —■— day of
A. D. .
E. F., Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 592. The following acts or omissions, in respect
to a court of justice, or proceedings therein, are contempts of the authority of the court :
First—Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent beha
vior toward the judge while holding the court, tending
to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding.
Seconds—A. breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or
violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course
■of a. trial or other judicial proceeding.
Third—Misbehavior in office, or other willful neglect
or violation of duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk,
sheriff, coroner, or other person appointed or elected to
perform a judicial or ministerial service.
Fourth—Deceit or abuse of the processor proceedings
of the court by a party to an action or special proceeding.
Fifth—Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order,
or process of the court.
Sixth —Assuming to be an officer, attorney, or counsel
of a court, and acting as sueh without authority.
Seventh—Rescuing any person or property in the cus
tody of an officer by virtue of an order or process of
.such court.
Eighth —Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to
an action while going to, remaining at, or returning from
the court where the action is on the calendar for trial.
2¥inlh —Any other unlawful interference with the
process or proceedings of a court.
Tenth—Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or
refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness.
Eleventh—When summoned as a juror in a court,
neglecting to attend or serve as such, or improperlj' con
versing with a party to an action to be tried at such
court, or with an}' other person, in relation to the merits
of such action, or receiving a communication from a
party or other person in respect to it, without immedi
ately disclosing the same to the court.
Twelfth—Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magis
trate, or officer, of the lawful judgment, order or process
Upon executing the warrant of attachment,
the sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him
before the court or judge, and detain him until an order
be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.
Sec. 598. ' "When a direction to let the person arrested
to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or en
dorsed thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest,
upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any day
before the return of the warrant, a written undertaking,
with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person
arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, and
abide the order of the court or judge thereupon ; or
they will pay, as may bo directed, the sum specified in
the warrant.
Sec. 599. The officer shall return the warrant of
arrest and the undertaking, if any, received by him from
the person arrested by the return day specified therein.
Sec. 600. When the person arrested has been brought
np or appeared, the court or judge shall 'proceed to in
vestigate the charge, and shall hear any answer which
the person arrested may make to the same, and may
examine witnesses for or against him ; for which an ad
journment may be had from time to time if necessary.
Sec. 601. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the
court or judge 6nall determine whether the person pro
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if
it be adjudged that he i6 guilty of the contempt, a fine
may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days,
or both.
Sec. 602. "When the contempt consists in the omiseion
to perform an act which is yet in the power of the
person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he shall
have performed it, and in that case the act shall be
specified in the warrant of commitment.
Sec. 603. When a warrant of arrest has been re
turned served, if the person arrested do not appear on
the return day, the court or judge may issue another
warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted,
the measure of damages in the action shall be the extent
of the loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party
by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was
issued and the costs of the proceeding.
Sec. 604. Whenever by the provisions of this act an
officer in required to keep u person arrested on a warrant
of attachment in custody, and to bring him before a
court or judge, the inability, from illness or otherwise,
of the person to attend shall be a sufficient excuse for
not bringing him up ; and the officer shall not confine a
pereon arrested upon the warrant in a prison, or other
wise restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as
may be necessary to secure his personal attendance.
Sec. 605. The judgment and order of the court or
judge made in cases of contempt shall be final and con
clusive.
CHAPTER XLIII.
Of Arbitrations.
Section 60S. What may be submitted to arbitration.
SOT. Must be writing.
608. May be entered as an order of the court ; revocation.
S09. Powers of arbitrators.
610. Majority may decide ; must be sworn.
611. Award to be in waiting ; Judgment where to be entered.
61*. Award how vacated in certain cases.
618. Conrt may modify award.
614. Decision on motion appealable.
615. What recoverable on revocation.
Sec. 606. Persons capable of contracting may submit
*° arbitration any controversy which might be the subject
of a civil action between them, except a question of title
to real property in fee or for life. This qualification
shall not include questions relating merely to the parti
tion or boundaries of real property.
Sec. 607. The submission to arbitration shall be in
writing, and may be to one or more persons.
Sec. 608. It may be stipulated in the submission
*ftat *' De entere<i as an order of the district court, for
which purpose it shall be filed with the clerk of such
court in the district where the parties, or one of them,
reside. The clerk shall thereupon enter in his register
of actions a note of submission, with the names of the
parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the sub
mission, when filed, and the time limited by the submis
sion, if any, within which the award shall be made.
When so entered, the submission shall not be revoked
except by the consent of both parties. The arbitrators
may be compelled by the court to make an award, and
the award may be enforced by the court in the same
manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made
of a superior court, or proceeding in an action or special
proceeding contrary to law, after such action or special
proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such in
ferior tribunal, magistrate or officer. Disobedience of
the lawful orders or process of a judicial officer is also a
contempt of the authority of such officer.
Sec. 593. Every person dispossessed or ejected from,
or out of, any real property by the judgment or process
of any court of competent jurisdiction, and who, not
jjavjng rignt so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes
possession of any such real property, or induces or pro
cures any person not having right so to do, or aids or
takes him therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court
by which such judgment was rendered or from which
such process issued. Upon a conviction for such con
tempt, the court or justice of the peace must immedi
ately issue an alias process, directed to the proper officer,
and requiring him to restore the party entitled to the
possession of such property under the original judgment
or process to such possession,
Sec. 59i. When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court, or judge at
chambers, it may be punished summarily, for which an
order shall be made, reciting the facts as occurring in
such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the
person proceeded against is thereby guiity of a contempt,
and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court, or judge at chambers, an affi
davit shall be presented to the court or judge of the
facts constituting the contempt or a statement of the
facts by the referees or arbitrators or other judicial
officer.
Sec. 595. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court or judge,
a warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the per
son charged to answer ; or, without a previous arrest, a
warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an
order to show cause, be granted; and no warrant of
commitment shall be issued without such previous at
tachment to answer or such notice or order to show
cause.
Sec. 596. Whenever a warrant of attachment is
issued pursuant to this act, the court or judge shall
direct, by an endorsement on such warrant, that the
person cliargcd may be let to bail for his appearance iu
an amount to be specified in such endorsement.
an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time
before the award is made.
Sec. 609. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a
time and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time,
to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations
and evidence of the parties, and to make an award there
on.
Sec. 610. All the arbitrators shall meet and act to
gether during the investigation ; but when met, a major
ity may determine the question. Before acting, they
shall be sworn before an officer authorized to administer
oaths faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the alle
gations and evidence of the parties in relation to the
matters in controversy, and to make a just award accord
ing to their undertaking.
15ec. 611. The award shall be in writing, and signed
by the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered
to the parties. When the submission is made an order
of the court, the award shall be filed with the clerk, and
a note thereof made in his register. After the expira
tion of five days from the filing of the award, upon the
application of a party, and on filing an affidavit showing
that notice of filing the award has been served on the
adverse party, or his attorney, at least four days prior to
such application, and that no order staying the entry of
judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by
the clerk in the judgment book, and shall therenpon have
the effect of a judgment.
Sec. 612. The court, on motion, may vacate the
award upon either of the following grounds, and may
order a new hearing before the same arbitrators, or not,
in its discretion :
First—That it was procured by corruption or fraud.
Second—That the arbitrators were guilty of miscon
duct, or committed gross error in refusing, on cause
shown, to postpone the hearing, or refusing to hear perti
nent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly, in a man
ner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced.
Third—The arbitrators exceeded their powers in
making their award ; or, that they refused or improperly
omitted to consider a part of the matter submitted to
them ; or, that the award is indefinite or cannot be per
formed.
Sec. 613. The court may, on motion, modify or cor
rect the award where it appears :
First—That there was a miscalculation in figures upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the de
scription of sonic person or property therein.
Second—When a part of the award is upon matters
not submitted, which part can be separated from other
parts, and does not affect the decision on the matter sub
mitted.
Third—When the aaard, though imperfect in form,
could have been amended if it had been a verdict or the
imperfection disregarded.
Sec. 614. The decision upon the motion shall bei subJee';
to aPPeai m tne same manner as an order which is
subject to appeal in civil actions; but the judgment
entered before a motion made shall not be subject to
apepal.
Sec. 615. If a submission to arbitration be revoked,
and an action be brought therefore, the amount to be re
covered shall only be the costs and damages sustained in
preparing for and attending the arbitration.
CHAPTER LXIV.
Of Evidence.
KNOWLEDGE OF THE COURT.
Section 616. What facts courts will asamc to be true.
Sec. 616. Courts take judicial notice of the follow
ing facts :
First—The true signification of all English words and
phrases, and of all legal expressions.
Second—Whatever is established by law.
Third—Public and private official acts of the legisla
tive, executive and judicial departments of this Terri
tory and of the United States.
Fourth—The seals of all the courts of tide Territory
and of the United States.
fifth—The accession to office and the official signa
tures' and seals of office of the principal officers of gov
ernment in the legislative, executive and judicial depart
ments of this Territory and of the United States.
Sixth—The existence, title, national flag, and seal of
every state or sovereign recognized by the executive
power of the United States.
Seventh— The seals of courts of admiralty and mari
time jurisdiction and notaries public.
Eighth—The laws of nature, measure of time, and the
geographical divisions and political history of the world.
In all these cases the court may resort for its aid to
appropriate books or documents of reference.
"WITNESSES.
Section 817.
Who are capable of being witnesses .
618.
Persons who cannot testily.
010.
Husband and wife cannot testify in certain cases.
fliu. When attorneys cannot.
.21 .
When clergymen cannot.
622. When a physician cannot.
823.
When public officer cannot.
624.
Judge or joror may be a witness.
m.
An Interpreter may be summoned.
m.
Privilege may be waived, and witness must testify.
627.
Kahptcna defined.
628.
How Issued.
62fl. Service, how made.
63(1. How If witness be concealed.
en.
Person present compelled to testify.
632.
Witness to attend with papers.
683.
When witness need not answer.
634. Penalty for disobedience.
685. Forfeiture' therefore .
136. Attachment, when to Issue.
637.
Proceedings if witness is prisoner.
888.
Must be on motion and affidavit.
639. How examined.
640.
Exemption of witness from arrest, when.
641.
Proceedings on arrest of witness.
Sec. 617. All persons, without exception, otherwise
than is specified in the next two sections, who, having
organs of sense, can perceive, and, perceiving can make
known their perceptions to others, may be witnesses.
Therefore, neither parties nor other persons who have
an interest in the event of an action or proceeding are
excluded ; nor those who have been convicted of crime ;
nor persons on account of their opinions on matters of
religious belief ; although in every case the credibility of
the witness may be drawn in question by the character
of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his character
for truth, honesty or integrity, or his motives, or by
contradictory evidence, and the jury are the exclusive
judges of his credibility.
Sec. 618. The following persons cannot be witnesses :
First—Those who are of unsound mind at the time
of their production for examination.
iS?«wu£-rChildren under ten years of age, who appear
incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts re
specting which they are examined or of relating them
trulv.
Third—Parties to an action or proceeding, or in whose
behalf an action or proceeding is prosecuted, against an
executor or an administrator, upon a claim or demand
against the estate of the deceased.
Sec. 619. A husband cannot be examined for or
against his wife, without her consent ; nor a wife for or
against her husband, without his consent ; nor can either,
(jurmg ^ marrjage or afterwards, be, without the con
sent of the other, examined as to any communication
made by one to the other during the marriage ; but this
exception does not apply to a civil action or proceeding
by one against the other, nor to a criminal action or
proceeding for a crime committed by one against the
other,
Sec. 620. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without ^e consent 0f njs client, be examined as to any
communication made by the client to him, or his
advice given thereon, in the course of professional
employment,
Sec. 621. A clergyman or priest shall not, without
the consent of the person making the confession, be ex
amined as to any confession made to him in his profes
sional character in the course of discipline enjoined by
the church to which he belongs.
Sec. 622. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not,
without the consent of his patient, be examined in a
civil action as to any information acquired in attending
the patient which was necessary to enable him to pre
scribe or act for the patient,
Sec. 623. A public officer shall not be examined as
to communications made to him in official confidence,
when the public interest would suffer by the disclosure.
Sec. 624. The judge himself, or any juror, may be
called as a witness by either party ; but in such cases it
shall be in the discretion of the court or judge to order
the trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place
before another judge or jury.
Sec. 625. When a witness does not understand and
speak the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn
to interpret for him. Any person, a resident of the
proper county, may be summoned by any court or judge
to appear before such court or judge to act as interpreter
in any action or proceeding. The summons must be
served and returned in like manner as a subpoena. Any
person so summoned who fails to attend at the time
and place named in the summons is guilty of a con
tempt.
Sec. 626. If a person offer himself as a witness, that
is to be deemed a consent to the examination also of a
wife, husband, attorney, clergyman, physician or surgeon
on the same subject, within the meaning of the preceding sections.
Manner of Compelling the Attendance of Witnesses,
* and their Rights and Duties.
Sec. 627. The process by which the attendance of a
witness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ or order
directed to a person and requiring his attendance at a
particular time and place to testify as a witness. It may
also require him to bring with him any books, docu
ments, or other thing under his control which he is
bound by law to produce in evidence. No person shall
be required to attend as a witness before any court,
judge, justice, or any other officer out of the county in
which he resides, unless the distance be less than thirty
miles from his place of residence to the place of trial.
Sec. 628. The subpoena shall be issued as follows :
First—To require attendance before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, it shall be issued in the name
of the court before which the attendance is required or
in which the issue is pending.
Second—To require attendance out of court before a
judge or justice, or any other officer authorized to ad
minister oaths or take testimony in any matter under the
laws of this Territory, it shall be issued by the judge,
justice or other officer before whom the attendance is
required Third—To require attendance before a commissioner
appointed to take testimony by a court of any other State,
Territory or county, it may be issued by any judge or
justice of the peace in places within their respective
jurisdictions, with like power to enforce attendance, and
upon certificate of contumacy to said court to punish
contempt of their process, as such judge or justice could
excercise if the subpoena directed the attendance of the
witness before their courts in a matter pending therein.
Sec. 629. The service of a subpoena shall be made
by reading the same to the witness, or by delivering a
copy thereof to such witness, or by leaving such copy
with some suitable person at the place of his abode,
giving or offering to him at the same time, if demanded
by him, the fees to which he is entitled for travel to and
from the place designated and one day's attendance
there. Such service may be made by any person ; but
when made by tiny other person than an officer author
ized to serve the process, it sliall be proved by the affi
davit of the person making it.
Sec. 630. If a witness be concealed in a building or
vessel, so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon
him, any court or judge or any officer issuing the sub
poena may, upon proof by affidavit of the concealment,
and of the materiality of the witness, make an order that
the sheriff of the county serve the subpoena, and the
sheriff shall serve it accordingly, and for that purpose
may break into the building or vessel where the witness
is concealed.
Sec. 631. A person present in court, or before a
judicial officer, may be required to testify in the same
manner as if he were in attendance upon a subpoena
issued by such court or officer.
Sec. 632. It shall be the duty of a witness duly
served with a subpoena to attend at the time appointed,
with any papers under his control required by the sub
poena, to answer all pertinent and legal questions, and,
unless sooner discharged, to remain until the testimony
is closed.
Seo. 633. A witness shall answer questions legal and
pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may
establish a claim against himself ; but ne need not give
an answer which shall have a tendency to subject him to
punishment for a felony, or need he give an answer
which will have a direct tendency to degrade his char
acter, unless it be to the very fact in issue or to a fact
from which the fact in issue would be presumed.
Sec. 634. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to
be sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an
affidavit or deposition when required, may be punished
as a contempt by the court or officer issuing the subpena, or requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the
witness be a party, his complaint or answer may be
stricken out.
Sec. 635. A witness disobeying a subpoena shall also
forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred
dollars and all damages which he may sustain by the
failure of the witness to attend, which forfeiture and
damage may be recovered in a civil action.
Sec. 636. In ease of failure of a witness to attend,
the court or officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of
the service thereof, and of the failure of the witness,
may issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county to arrest
the witness and bring him before the court or officer
where his attendance was required.
Sec. 637. If the witness be a prisoner confined in
jail or prison within this Territory, an order for his exami nation in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary
removal and production before a court or officer
for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made
as follows :
First—By the court itself in which the action or
special proceeding is pending.
Second—By a judge of the Supreme Court, district
court, or probate judge of the county where the action
or proceeding is pending, if before a judge or other
person out of court.
Sec. 638. Such order can only be made upon motion
by affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness, and its
materiality.
Sec. 639. If the witness be imprisoned in 4;he county
where the action or proceeding is pending, his production may be required. In all other cases his examina
tion, when allowed, shall be taken upon deposition.
Sec. 640. Every person who has been in good faith
served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a
court, judge, commissioner, referee, or other person, in
a cause where the disobedience of the witness may be
punished as a contempt, 6hall be exonerated from arrest,
in a civil action, while going to the place of attendance,
necessarily remaining there, and returning therefrom.
Sec. 641. The arrest of a witness contrary to the
last section shall be void ; but an officer shall not be
liable to the party for making the arrest in ignorance of
the facts creating the exoneration, but shall be liable for
any subsequent detention of the party, if such party
claim the exemption, and make an affidavit stating :
First—That ne has been served with a subpoena to
attend as a witness before a court, officer, or other
person, specifying the same, the place of attendance,
and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena wajs
issued.
Second—That he has not been thus §e,rye,d by his
own procurement -with the intentipn of ^avoiding an
arrest.
Third—That he is, at the time, going to the place of
attendance, or returning therefrpm, or remaining the^re
in obedience to the subpoena.
The affidavit may be taken by the officer, and shall
exonerate him from liability for discharging tjhe witness
when arrested.
Sec. 642. An affidavit to be used before any court,
J11*^ or °^cer °f tliis Territory may be taken before
any judere or clerk of any court, or any justice of the
peace or notary public in this Territory.
S ec. 643. An affidavit taken in another State or Territory
of the United States to be used in this Territory
g^aU De taken before a commissioner appointed by the
Governor of this Territory to take affidavits and depo
sitions in such other State or Territory, or before the
judge of a court of record having a seal.
Sec. 644. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to
be used in this Territory shall be taken before an ambassador, minister or consul of the United States, or before
any judge of a court of record having a seal in such
foreign country, or before a commissioner of deeds ap
pointed by the Governor.
Sec. 645. When an affidavit is taken before a judge
0f a COnrt in another State or Territory, or a foreign
country, the genuineness of the signature of the judge,
the existence of the court, and the fact that such judge
is a member thereof, shall be certified by the clerk of
the court, under the 6eal thereof.
depositions taken in this territory.
Sectiok 646. Deposition of witness in the Territory, when taken.
647. Notice, affidavit, place and time of taking.
648. Manner of taking and nse ot deposition.
64ft. When may be excluded .
650. May be read by either party at any time.
Sec. 646. The testimony of a witness in this Terri
tory may be taken by deposition in an action at any time
after the service of the summons or the appearance of
the defendant, and in a special proceeding after a ques
tion of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases :
First—When the witness is a party to the action or
proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the
action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.
Second—-When the witness resides out the county in
which his testimony is to be used.
Third—When the witness is about to leave the county
where the action is to be tried, and will probably con
tinue absent when the testimony is required.
Fourth—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend
the trial, is nevertheless too infirm to attend.
Fifth—When the testimony is required upon a
motion or in any other case where the oral examination
of the witness is not required.
Sec. 647. Either party may have the deposition
taken of a witness in this Territory before any judge or
clerk, or any justice of the peace or notary public, in
this Territory, on serving upon the adverse party pre
vious notice of the time and place of the examination,
together with a copy of an affidavit showing that the
case is one mentioned in the la6t section. Such notice
shall be at least five days, and, in addition, one day for
every twenty five miles of the distance of the place of
examination from the residence of the person to whom
the notice is given, unless, for a cause shown, a judge,
by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter
time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served
with the notice.
Sec. 648. Either party may attend such examination,
and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be
proper. The deposition, when completed, shall be carefully
read to the witness, and corrected by him in any
particular, if desired. It shall then be subscribed by
the witness, certified by the judge or officer taking the
deposition, enclosed in an envelope or wrapper, sealed,
and directed to the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending, or to such person as the parties in
writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the
judge or officer to the clerk or such person, or trans
mitted through the mail or by some private opportunity ;
and thereupon such deposition may be used by either
party upon the trial or other proceeding against any
party giving or receiving the notice subject to all legal
exceptions. But if the parties attend at the examination,
no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be
made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the time
of the examination. If the deposition be taken by
reason of the absence, or intended absence, from the
county of the witness, or because he is too infirm to
attend, or by reason of his death, proof by affidavit or
oral testimony shall be made at the trial that the witness
continues absent, or infirm, or is deaf. The deposition
thus taken may be also read in case of the death of the
witness.
Sec. 649. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition, it may be excluded from the case upon proof that
sufficient notice was not given to the party against whom
it is offered to enable hiin to attend the taking thereof,
or that the taking was not in all respects fair.
Sec. 650. When a deposition haB been once taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceed
ing by either party, and shall then be deemed the evi
dence of the party reading it.
DEPOSITIONS TAKEN OUT OF THIS TERKITOEY.
Sectiok 651. When may be taken.
682. Commission, how and to whom it may issne.
653. Interrogatories, how prepared and settled.
AM. Authority and dntles of commissioner.
665. When trial will not be postponed .
666. Deposition may be used by either party.
Sec. 651. The testimony of a witness out of the Ter
ritory may be taken by deposition in an action at any
time after the service of the summons or the appearance
of the defendant, and in a special proceeding at any
time after a question of fact has arisen therein.
Sec. 652. The deposition of a witness out of this
Territory may be taken upon commission issued from the
court, under the seal of the court, upon an order of the
judge or court, or probate judge, on the application of
either party, upon five days previous notice to the
other. If issued to any place within the United States,
it may be directed to a person agreed upon by the
parties, or, if they do not agree, to any judge or justice
of the peace, or commissioner, selected by the officer
issuing it. If issued to any country out of the United
States, it may be direoted to a minister, ambassador,
consul, vice-consul, or consul agent of the United States
in such country, or to any person agreed upon by the
parties.
Sec. 653. Such proper interrogatories, direct and
cross, as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled,
if the parties disagee as to their form, by the judge or
officer granting the order for the commission, at a day
fixed in the order, may be annexed to the commission ;
or when the parties agree to that mode, the examination
may be without written interrogatories.
Sec. '654. The commission shall authorize the com
missioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to
take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories ; or,
when the examination is to be made without interroga
tories, in respect to the question in dispute ; and to cer
tify the deposition to the court, in a sealed euvelope,
directed to the clerk, or other person designated or
agreed upon, and forward to him by mail or other usual
channel of conveyance.
Sec. 655. A trial or other proceeding shall not be
postponed by reason of a commission not returned,
except upon evidence satisfactory to the court that the
testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper
diligence has been used to obtain it.
Sec. 656. The deposition mentioned in this chapter
may be used by either party on the trial or other proceeding
against any other party giving or receiving the
notice, subject to all just exceptions.
OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
Su-tios 65S. Manner ol application for order.
K59. Appointee of Judge; authority of.
660. Manner of taking the deposition .
661. Papers flled prima facie evidence.
869. When the evidence may be produced.
Sec. 657. The testimony of a witness may be taken
and perpetuated as provided in this act.
Sec. 65S. The applicant must produce to a district
judge, or to a probate judge, a petition, verified by the
oath of the applicant, stating :
First—That the applicant expects to be a party to an
aetien in a court in this Territory, and, in such case, the
names of the persons whom he expects will be adverse
parties > or,
Second—That the proof of some fact is necessary to
perfect the title to proj>erty in which he is interested, or
to establish marriage, descent, heirship, or any other
matter which it may hereafter become material to estab
lish, though no suit may at the time be anticipated, or,
if anticipated, he may not know the parties to such suit ;
and,
Third—The name of the witness to be examined, his
place of residence, and a general outline of the facts
expected to be proved.
The judge to whom such petition is presented must
make an order allowing the examination and designating
the officer before whom the same must be taken, and
prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, if the
parties expectant are known and reside in this Territory,
must be personally served, and, if unknown, such notice
must be served on the recorder of the county where the
property to be effected by the evidence is situated, or
the judge making the order resides, as may be directed
by him, and by publication thereof in some newspaper,
to be designated by the judge, for the same period required for the publication of summons. The judge
must also designate in his order the recorder of the
county to whom the depositions must be returned when
taken.
Sec. 659. The person appointed by the judge to take
the depositions authorized, if a resident of this Territory,
on receiving a copy of the order of the judge, and of
the notice prescribed in the last action, with proof of its
personal service or publication, or, if a resident without
the Territory, on receiving the commission mentioned in
the next section, with proof of like service of publica
tion of the notice, to take the deposition of the witness
named in the order of the judge, or in the commission,
or, if more than one witness is thus named, of such of
them as appears before him, at the time designated, and
the taking of the same may be continued from time to
time.
Sec. 660. The examination must be by question and
answer, and if the testimony is to be taken in another
Territory, it must be taken upon a commission to be
issued by the judge allowing the examination, under the
seal of the court of which he is judge, and upon inter
rogatories, to be settled in the same manner as in cases
of deposition taken under commission in pending actions,
unless the parties expectant, if known, otherwise agree.
If such parties are unknown, notice of the settlement of
the interrogatories shall be published in some newspaper
for such time as the judge may designate. The depo
sition, when completed, must be carefully read to and
subscribed by the witness, then certified by the officer or
person taking the same, and shall then be sealed up and
delivered or transmitted to the recorder of the county
designated in the order of the judge allowing the exami
nation, who shall file the same when received. The
judge allowing the examination sliall file with the clerk
the order for the examination, the petition on which the
same was granted, with proof of service of the order and
notice.
Sec. 661. The petition and order, and papers filed
by the judge, as provided in section 660, or a certified
copj' thereof, are prima facie evidence of the facts
stated therein to show compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
Sec. 662. If a trial be had between the parties
named in the petition as parties expectant, or their suc
cessors in interest, or between any parties wherein it may
be material to establish the facts which such depositions
prove, or tend to prove, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witnesses, or that they cannot be fonnd, or
are unable by reason of age or other infirmity to give
their testimony, the depositions, or copies thereof, may
be used by either party, subject to all legal objections ;
but if the parties attended at the examination, no objec
tion to the form of an interrogatory can be made at the
trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.
ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.
Sictioh 663. Who may administer.
664. Form or ordinary oath .
665. What court may do in particular cases.
666. Same.
667. Witness may affirm or declare.
Sec. 663. Every court of this Territory, every judge
i , <. J . • .• x A j
or clerk of any court, every justice of the peace, and
every notary public, and every officer authorized to take
testimony, or to decide upon evidence in any proceeding,
shall have power to administer oaths or affirmations.
Sec. 664. An oath or affirmation in an action or pro
ceeding may be administered as follows, the person who
swears or affirms expressing his assent when addressed
in the following form :
You do solemnly swear [or affirm, as the ease may be,]
that the evidence you shall give in this issue [or matter],
pending between and , shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.
Sec. 665. Whenever the court before which a person
is offered as a witness is satisfied that he has a peculiar
mode of swearing connected with or in addition to the
usual form of administration which, in his opinion, is
more solemn or obligatory, the court may, in its discre
tion, adopt that mode.
Sec. 666. When a person is sworn who believes in
any other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn
according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if
there be any such.
Sec. 667. Any witness who desires it, may, at his
option, instead of taking an oath, make his solemn
affirmation or declaration by assenting when addressed
in the following form : " You do solemnly affirm [or
declare],", as in section 664.
Section 1. The probate courts of this Territory, in
their respective counties, in addition to their probate
jurisdiction, 6hall have concurrent civil jurisdiction with
the district courts of this Territory to hear and deter
mine civil cases wherein the damages or debt claimed
floes not exceed five hundred dollars, exclusive of inter
est, and concurrent jurisdiction in all cases with justices
of the peace.
Sec. 2. The rules of practice and proceedings applicable
to justice courts in criminal eases are hereby made
applicable to the probate courts.
Sec. 3. In the trial of criminal cases of which the
probate courts have jurisdiction, the jury shall consist of
twelve persons, who shall have the qualifications of elec
tors ; provided, that the defendant may, by consent, in
open court, waive the right of trial by jury of twelve,
and accept a number not less than six.
Sec. 4. That the probate court shall have concurrent
juridiction with justices of the peace in such criminal
cases arising under the laws of the Territory as do not
require the intervention of a grand jury, and jurisdic
tion to examine persons charged with crime, and commit,
discharge, or hold to bail. Each judge of the probate
court shall be a conservator of the peace throughout his
county.
Sec. 5. In all criminal cases an appeal may be taken
from any order, judgment or decree,, imposing a fine,
imprisonment, or both, of said probate court to the dis
trict court in the same manner and by the same practice
as is provided for appeals from justices' conrts.
Sec. 6. The rules of practice in civil cases in the
probate courts of this Territory shall be the same as the
practice in the district courts, except in the matter of
appeals to the district courts and other proceedings, as
hereinafter provided.
Sec. 7. A' civil suit shall be deemed to have commenced
upon the filing of the complaint and the issuance
of the summons ; provided, that the summons may be
issued at any time within six months from the filing of
the complaint.
Sec. 8. All process issued out of the probate courts
shall be under the seal of said court, and the time within
which a defendant is required to answer or demur, or
both, shall be ten days, exclusive of the day of service
of summons.
Sec. 9. A regular term of the probate court Bhall be
held at the county seat of each county, commencing on
the fourth Monday of each month, for the transaction of
such busiaess in probate matters of which said court has
jurisdiction ; provided, that such court shall be open on
all judicial and legal days for the commencement of and
trial of civil actions, the same as in justices' courts.
Sec. 10. Jurors in all civil cases and actions in the
probate courts shall consist of twelve persons having the
qualifications of jurors in the district courts; but the
parties to the suit may, by written stipulation, or by
agreement in open court, try their suit with a less num
ber than twelve, and the verdict of such number shall be
as valid as if rendered by a jury of twelve persons.
Sec. 11. Jurors in civil cases in the probate court
shall be entitled to receive ten dollars per day for each
day so engaged in the trial of a case, which shall be en
tered and taxed up as costs against the losing party.
Sec. 12. Witnesses in civil cases in the probate court
shall be allowed two dollars per day for each day's actual
attendance, and thirty cents per mile one way, which
shall be taxed up against the losing party.
Sec. 13. The sheriff, under sheriff, deputy sheriff, or
any constable of the county, may serve and execute any
process in civil actions issued out of the probate court ;
and any male citizen over twenty-one years of age may
serve a summons or subpeena, and if specially appointed
by the probate judge, may execute and serve any other
process issued out of the probate court in civil actions ;
provided, in cases of non-residents, summons may be
served by publication, as provided by the civil practice
act applicable to the district court
Sec. 14. The same fees shall be allowed probate
judges for services under this act as are allowed to jus
tices of the peace for similar services ; and for all official
services not herein otherwise provided for, such fees as
are or shall be by law allowed the clerk of the district
court for similar services ; that probate judges may be
ex officio clerks of their own courts, or may appoint a
clerk of their respective courts, who is authorized to
perform all the duties of such clerk, and have the same
fees as the probate judge.
Sec. 15. Each probate judge in the Territory of
Idaho, before exercising the powers and duties conferred
by this act, shall execute an official bond in the sum of
two thousand five hundred dollars, conditioned and exe
cuted as other official bonds under the laws of the Terri
tory, such bond to be approved by the board of county
commissioners and filed in the county recorder's office.
Sec. 16. Appeals to the district court from orders
and judgments rendered in the probate court in civil
cases ehall be allowed as hereinafter provided :
First—In a case tried by the court without a jury,
when the amount of the judgment does not exceed the
sum of fiftv dollars, exclusive of costs.
Second—In cases tried by a jury, when the amount of
the verdict and the order, judgment or decree does not
exceed the sum of one hundred dollars, exclusive of
costs.
Sec. 17. The party wishing to appeal, as provided in subdivisions one and two of section sixteen, shall file his
notice of appeal within five days from the rendition of the
judgment or order appealed from, and serve a copy on the
■opposite party; and shall, within ten days thereafter,
file his undertaking in such sum as shall be hxed by the
judge of the court, which undertaking shall conform in
terms and conditions to undertakings on appeal from the
district to the Supreme Court.
Sec. 18. In appeals under subdivisions one and two
of section sixteen the probate court shall transmit to the
clerk of the district court the whole of the papers and
pleadings, together with the judgment of the court below,
and take a receipt from the clerk of the district court
therefore, which shall be the only papers used on the
trial in the district court.
Sec. 19. The cases on appeal as mentioned in subdivisions
one and two of section sixteen shall be tried by
the district court, and judgment rendered thereon. No
jury shall be allowed to either party ; and no appeals to
the Supreme Court shall be allowed in such cases.
Sec. 20. If the judgment of the probate court shall
be affirmed, modified or reversed, the papers in the case,
together with the judgment of the court, shall be trans
mitted by the clerk of the district court to the probate
court ; provided, the costs of the clerk of the district
court shall be first paid ; and provided further, that the
party in whose favor judgment shall have been ren
dered in the district court may pay the costs of having
the papers transmitted, and recover the same with his
other costs in the court below on execution against the
judgment debtor, as provided in the practice of district
courts.
Sec. 21. Appeals shall be allowed in all civil cases
where the amount of any final order, judgment or decree
of the probate court exceeds the sum of one hundred
dollars, exclusive of the costs and within the jurisdiction
of the said probate court, to the district court, and
which cases may be tried anew in said court, and in accordance with the rules of practice in said district court.
Sec. 22. When appeals are taken to the district court
as provided in section twenty-one, the probate judge
shall transmit all the papers, pleadings and depositions,
if any, used on the trial in the court below to the clerk
of the district court, and the same shall become a record
in the said district court, and execution or executions to
enforce the judgment, order or decree shall emanate in
and from the district court ; provided, the costs and the
fees of the probate court shall be paid before the court
or probate judge shall be required to transmit the same.
Sec. 28. TTie probate judge, on demand of the party
in whose favor the judgment is rendered, shall give him
a transcript thereof, which may be hied and docketed in
the office of the clerk of the district court of the county
where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the clerk of the district court
shall be noted by him thereon and entered in the docket,
and from that time executions may be issued by the clerk
of the district court on such judgment to the sheriff of
any other county in the Territory in the same manner
as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts.
Sec. 24. All acts and parts of acts in conflict with
the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.
Sec. 25. An act defining the jurisdiction and prac
tice of the probate courts of this Territory in civil and
criminal cases passed at the sixth session of the Legisla
tive Assembly of the Territory of Idaho, and approved
January 11, A. D. 1871, is hereby repealed.

