SECTION 3800. Part Third of these Revised Statutes
shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of the Territory
of Idaho, and whenever cited, enumerated, referred to,
or amended, may be designated simply as the Code of Civil
Procedure, adding, when necessary, the number of the section.
SEC. 3801. When the violation of aright admits of both
a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one
is not merged in the other.
PART I.—COURTS OF JUSTICE.
TITLE I.
ORGANIZATION AND JURISDICTION.
CHAPTER I.
CoURTs or JUSTICE, IN GENERAL.
BECTION Sscnox
3810. The several courts of this Territory. 3811. Courts of Record.
SECTION 3810. The following are the Courts of Justice
of this Territory:
1. The Supreme Court;
2. The Districts Courts;
3. The Probate Courts; I
4. The J ustices’ Courts.
SEC. 381 1. The courts enumerated in the ﬁrst three subdivisions of the preceding section are Courts of Record.
k_Sii1C'i"i0N 3815. The jurisdiction of this court is of two
in s:
1. Original; and
2. A pellate.
SEC. 816._ Its original jurisdiction extends to the is
suance of writs of_ mandate, review, prohibition, habeas
corpus, _an_d all_writs necessary to the exercise of its ap
pel ate Jurisdiction.
_SEc. 3817. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to a re
view of all cases removed to it under such re ulations as are
or may be prescribed by law, from the ﬁnal ecisions of the
District Courts.
SEC. 3818_. The court may reverse, aﬂirm, or modify
any order orjudgment appealed from, and may direct the
pro er judgment or order to be entered, or direct a new trial
0r_ urther roceedings to be had. Its judgment must bere
mitted to t e court from which the appeal was taken. The
decisions of the court shall be given in writing; and in 'v
ing a decision, if a new trial be granted, the court s all
pass upon, and determine all the questions of law in
volved in the case, presented upon such appeal, and nec
essary to the ﬁnal determination of the case.
SEC. 3819. The resence of two Justices is necessary
for the transaction of usiness, but one of the Justices may
ailljourn the couﬁrt from day to day with the same eﬂfect as if
a were resen .
SEC. 3 20. The concurrence of two Justices is necessa
ry to; gronciluncei a judgment; if two do not concur, the case
mus ere ear .
SEC. 3821. There must be at least one term in each ear
for the hearing of causes, to be held at the capital 0 the
Territory at such time as the court may by rule, or order,
glesignate. Additional terms may also be held by order of
e court.
CHAPTER III.
OF THE DISTRICT COURTS.
Bncnox ‘ Siwriox
3830. Jurisdiction. 3833. Judgments may be entered in vaca
383l . Duration of terms.
3832. Adjournment ot_the court.
SEC. 3830. The jurisdiction of the District Courts ex
tends:
1. To all civil actions for relief formerly given in Courts
of Equity
tion.
2. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation
is not capable of pecuniary estimation;
3. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation is
capable of pecuniary estimation, which involve the title or
possession of real estate; or the legality of an tax, unjust
assessment, toll, or municipal ﬁne, or in whic the demand
or the value of the property in controversy exceeds one hun
dred dollars;
4. To all special proceedings
5. To the issuance of writs oi mandate, review, prohibi
tion, habeas corpus, and all writs necessary to the exercise
of its owers;
6. 0 the trial of all indictments;
7. Its appellate jurisdiction extends to all cases arisin
in Probate or Justices’ Courts; and to all other matters an
cases wherein an ap eal is allowed by law.
SEC. 3831.‘ Eac term must be held until the business
is disposed of, or until a day ﬁxed for the commencement of
some other term in the district.
SEC. 3832. The court may adjourn from time to time
during the term, and may, when the public convenience re
quires, adjourn the term over the time ﬁxed by law for the
commencement of another term in the same district.
SEC. 3833. Judgments and orders of this court may be
entered either in term or vacation.
CHAPTER IV.
OF THE PROBATE Counr.
8ac'r1ox Sucrrox
3840. Court in each county. 38-13. Terms of the court in the respective
3841. Jurisdiction oi. counties.
3842. Presumptione in favor of its judg- 384-L. Terms, where held. Shall have a
ments. Clerk.
Sncrrox 3840. There must be a Probate Court held in
each of the counties.
SEC. 3841. The Probate Court has jurisdiction:
1. To open and receive proof of last wills and testaments
and to admit them to proof;
2. To grant letters testamentary of administration and
of guardianship, and to revoke the same;
3. To appoint appraisers of estates of deceased persons;
4. To compel executors, administrators and guardians to
render accounts;
5. To order the sale of property of estates, or belonging
to minors;
6. To order the (payment of debts due from estates;
7. To order an regulate all distributions of property or
estates of deceased persons;
8. To compel the attendance of witnesses and the produc
tion of title deeds, papers and other property of an estate or
of a minor;
9. To make such orders as may be necessary to the exer
cise of the powers conferred upon it.
In addition to their probate jurisdiction to hear and de
termine all civil causes wherein the damage or debt claimed
does not exceed the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars, exclusive
of interest, and concurrent jurisdiction with Justices of the
Peace in criminal cases.
SEC. 3842. The proceedin s of this court are construed
in the same manner and with ike intendments as the pro. ceedings of courts of general jurisdiction, and to its records,
orders, judgments and decrees there is accorded like force,
effect and le alpresum tions as to the records, orders, judg
ments and ecrees of istrict Courts, Provided, That this section shall be applicable to its probate proceedings, rec
ords, orders, jud ents and decrees onl .
SEC. 3843. T e terms of the Probate ourts in the several
counties for the transaction of all probate business, except
that specially authorized b law to be done in vacation, must
be held on the fourth Mon ay in each month. For the trans
action of all civil, other than probate business, and all crim
inal business, these courts are always open.
SEC. 3844. The terms of the Probate Courts must be
held at the county seats. There shall be a Clerk of said
Court to be appointed by the Judge thereof or the Probate
Judge ma act as Clerk of his own Court. Every Probate
Judge sha l be res onsible upon his ofﬁcial bond, for every
default or miscon uct in oﬂice of his Clerk.
CHAPTER V.
Or J Usrrcns’ Covers.
Sscnon
3850. Justices of the Peace malt hold.
Szcnox
3853. Tag-itorinl extent of civil jurl|die
on.
3851. Civil jurisdiction.
3852. Civil jurlldiotion restricted. 3854. Criminal jurisdiction.
SECTION 3850. Every Justice of the Peace must hold a
Justice’s Court in the precinct or city for which he is elected
or appointed.
SEC. 3851. The civil jurisdiction of these courts within
their respective precincts or cities extends:
1. To an action arising on contract, for the recovery of
mone only, if the sum claimed does not exceed three hun
dred ollars;
2. To an action for damages to the erson, or for takin
or detaining personal property, or or injuring person
property, or for an injury to real property where no issue
IS raised by the answer involving the laintiﬁt"s title, or
possession of the same, if the damages c aimed do not ex
ceed three hundred dollars; 3. To an action for a ﬁne, penalty or forfeiture, not ex
ceeding three hundred dollars, given by statute or the ordi
nance of an incorporated city;
4. To an action upon a bond or undertaking conditioned
for the payment of money not exceeding three hundred dol
lars, thou h the penalty exceed that sum; the judgment to
be given or the sum actually due. When the payments
are to be made by installments, an action may be brought
for each installment as it becomes due;
5. To an action to recover the possession of personal prop
erty when the value of such property does not exceed three
hundred dollars;
6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a de
fendant, when _the amount confessed does not exceed three
hundred dollars.
SEC. 3852. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
shall not extend however to a civil action in which the title or ossession of real property is put in issue.
Sac. 853. Mesne an ﬁnal process of Justices‘ Courts
may be issued to any part of the county in which they
are held.
SEC. 3854. These courts have 'urisdiction of the follow
ing public offenses, committed -wit 'n the respective coun
ties 111 which such courts are established:
1. Petit larceny; '
2. Assault and battery, not charged to. have been commit
ted upon a plublic oﬂicer in the dischar e of his duties;
3. Breac es of the peace, riots, a rays, committin a
willful injury to property, and all misdemeanors punis ed
by ﬁne not exceeding three hundred dollars, or imprison
ment in the county jail not exceeding six months, or by
-both such ﬁne and imprisonment.
CHAPTER VI.
GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING CoUR'rs or J USTICE.
'Snc'rrox Sncnon
3860. Sittings public. 3868. Adjournment oi court for absence
3861. Limitation on preceding section. of Judge.
3662. Powers oi court respecting the con- 3869. Same.
duct of judicial proceedings. 3870. J udpe may, in certain cases, change
3863. Courts oi record may make rules. p ace of holding court.
8864. When rules take effect. 3871. Parties to appear at place ap
8865. Days on which courts, etc., may be pointed.
old. 3872. Rooms, ctc., when Judge may or
3866. Days on which courts shall not be der.
open. 3873. What courts have seals.
3867. Court appointed,etc., for those days, 3874. Seals, by whom kept.
deemed for next day. 3875. To what procedings to be aﬂixed.
SECTION 3860. The sittings of every court of justice
are public, exce t as provided in the next section.
SEC. 3861. n an action for divorce, criminal conversa
tion, seduction, or breach of promise of marriage, the court
may direct the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be
private, and may exclude all persons except the officers of
the court, the parties, their witnesses,and counsel; Provided
That in any cause the court may, in the exercise of a soun
discretion during the examination of a witness, exclude any
and all witnesses in the cause.
SEC. 3862. Ever court has ower:
1. To preserve an enforce or er in its immediate pres
ence;
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it or before
a person or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investi
gation under its authority;
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings be
fore it or its officers
4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders and pro
cess, and to the orders of a Judge out of court in an action
or proceeding pending therein;
5. To contro , in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial oiﬁcers, and of all other persons in any manner
connected with a Ludicial proceeding before it, in every mat
ter a ertaining t ereto;
6. o compel the attendance of persons to testify in an
action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and man
ner provi ed in this code;
7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending
therein, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in
the exercise of its powers and duties;
8. To amend and control its process and orders, so as to
make them conformable to law and justice.
SEC. 3863. Every Court of Record may make rules not
inconsistent with the laws of this Territory, for its own
government and the government of its ofﬁcers; but such
rules must neither impose a tax or charge upon any legal
proceeding nor give an allowance to any oﬂicer for services.
SEC. 3864. The rules adopted -b the Supreme Court
take effect sixty days, and those a opted by other courts,
thirty da s after their publication.
SEC. 3 65. The Courts of Justice may be held and judi
cial business be transacted on any day except as provided in
the next section. _
SI_§c. 3866. No court can be opened nor can any judicial
business be transacted on Sunday, on the ﬁrst da of Janu
ary, on the fourth day of Jul , on Christmas or _ ha.nksgiv
ing day, or on a day _on whic the general election is held,
except for the fOll0WlI1E reasons:
. To ive, upon t eir request, instructions to a jury
when deli erating on their verdict;
2. §o rehceive a verdigt <}>1r discharge Er jury;
3. or t e exercise o t e owers 0 a ma istrate in a.
criminal action or in a procee ing of acriminalgnature; Pro
vided, That in civil causes orders of arrest may be made
and executed; writs of attachments, executions, injunctions
and writs of prohibition may be issued and.served; proceed
ings to_ recover possession of ersonal property may be had;
and suits for the purpose of o taming any such writs and
pr§(1i;e(3ﬁdgl8g6S'€1a)ifb:iiy1sdittlligddgjisairliyeiiitéigrned in the last sec
tion happen to be the day appointed for the holding of a
court or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed appointed for,
or adjourned to the next day.
SEC. 3868. If no Jud e attend on the day appointed for
holding the court, or on t e day to which it may have been
adjourned, before noon, the S erifl’ or Clerk must adjourn
the court until the next day at ten o’clock A.'M.; and if no
Judge attend on that day before noon, the Sheriff or Clerk
must adjourn the court until the following day at the same
hour, and so on from day to day for one week, unless the
Judge by written order directs it to be adjourned to some
day certain ﬁxed in said order, in which case it shall be so
ad ourned.
EC. 3869. If no Judge attend for one week and no
written order is made as provided in the last section, the
Sheriff or Clerk shall adjourn the session until the time ap
pointed for the holding of the next regular session.
SEC. 3870. A Judge authorized to hold or preside at a
court appointed to be held in a county, city or town, may,
by an order ﬁled with the Clerk and published as he may
prescribe, direct that the court be held or continued at any
other place in the city, town or county than that appoint
ed, when war, insurrection, pesfilence or any other ublic
calamity or the danger thereof, or the destruction or an er
of the building a pointed for holding the court ma ren er
it necessary, an may in the same manner revoket eorder,
and in his discretion alpdpoint another place in the same city,
town or county for ho ing the court.
SEC. 3871. When the court is held at a place appointed
as provided in the last section, every person held to appear
at the court must appear at the place so appointed.
SEC. 3872. If suitable rooms for holdin the District
Courts and the chambers of the Judges of suc courts be not
provided in any county by the Commissioners thereof, to
gether with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights and station
ery suﬂicient for the transaction of business, the court may
direct the Sheriff of such countyto provide such rooms, at
tendants, furniture, fuel, lights and stationery, and the ex
penses thereof are a char e against such county.
SEC. 3873. Each of t e following courts has a seal:
1. The Supreme Court;
2. The District Courts;
3. The Probate Courts.
SEC. 3874. The Clerk of the Court must keep the seal
thereof.
SEC. 3875. The seal of the court need not be afﬁxed to
any proceeding therein, or document except:
1. To a writ;
2. To the certiﬁcate of the probate of a will, or of the ap
pointment of an executor, administrator or guardian;
3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or other
proceeding of a court, or of an oﬂicer thereof, or of a copy
of a document on ﬁle in the oiﬁce of the Clerk.
SECTION 3885. Each Probate Judge shall reside at the
county-seat of his county, and every Justice of the Peace
shall reside in the recinct in which his court is held.
SEC. 3886. A istrict Judge may hold a court in any
county in this Territory upon the re uest of the Judge of the
district in which such court is to be eld; and when by rea
son of sickness or absence from the Territory, or from any
other cause a court cannot be held in an ' county in a dis
trict by the Jud e thereof, a certiﬁcate 0 that fact must be
transmitted by t e Clerk to the Governor, who may there
upon direct some other District Judge to hold such court.
Sscnox
CHAPTER II.
‘ POWERS or J UDGES AT CHAMBERS.
3990. Powers of Judges at Chambers;
SECTION 3890. District Judges, at Chambers, ma ' grant
all orders and writs which are usually ranted in t e ﬁrst
instance upon ex parte applications, an may, at Chambers,
hear and dispose of such writs and of motions for new
trials, and try and determine writs of review, mandate and
prohibitions, and may hear applications to dischar e all
such orders and writs. In case of vacancy in the 0 ce of
any District Jud e, or his absence from t e Territory, mo
tions ma be ma e before and orders granted by any other
District udge.
Snoriou
3900. When disqualiﬁed.
CHAPTER III.
DISQUALIFICATION or J UDGES.
3901. Not to act as attorney in his own
Court.
QEOTION
3902. Certain Judges not to act as at
torneiys.
3903. N0 in ieial oﬂioerto have a part
ner.
SECTION 3900. A Judge cannot act as such in any of the
following cases:
1. In an action or proceeding to which he is a party, or
in which he is interested;
2. VVhen he is related to either party by consan iiinity
or aﬁinity within the third degree, computed accor ing to
the rules of law;
3. When he has been attorney or counsel for either party
in the action or proceeding. But this section does not apply
to the arrangement of the calendar or the regulation of the
order of business, nor to the power of transferring the cause
to another county.
SEC. 3901. A Judge cannot act as attorney or counsel
in a court in which he is Judge, or in an action or proceed
ing removed therefrom to another court for trial or review.
or in an action or proceeding from which an appeal may liu
to his own court.
SEC. 3902. A Justice of the Supreme Court, or Judge of
the District Court, cannot act as attorney or counsel in any
court, except in an action or proceeding to which he is a
party on the record.
SEC. 3903. No Judge or other judicial officer, shall have
a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court of this
Territory.
CHAPTER 1." V.
INCIDENTAL Pownns AND Durms OF‘.
SECTION
3910. Of judicial oﬂicers.
3911. General powers of Judges out of
court.
‘ Ss'.c'rIeN
‘3912. Powers of judicial officers as tocon
sma. S of proceedings before them.
3914. Same.
SECTION 3910. A Judge may exercise, out of court, all
the powers expressly conferred upon a Judge, as contradis
tinguished from the court.
SEC. 3911. Ever judicial ofﬁcer has power:
1. To preserve an enforce order in his immediate pre
sence, and in the proceedings before him, when he is en
gaged in the performance of an oﬁicial dut ;
2. To compel obedience to his lawful or ers, as provided
in this code; .
3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a ro
ceedin before him, in the cases and manner provide in
this co e;
4. To administer oaths to persons in aproceeding pending
before him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary,
in the exercise of his owers and duties.
SEC. 3912. For t e effectual exercise of the powers con
ferred by the last section, a 'udicial oﬁicer may punish for
contem t, in the cases provi ed in this code.
SEC. 913. The Justices of the Supreme Court, and the
Jud es of the District Courts, have power in any part of
the erritory, and Probate Judges an Justices of the Peace
within their respective counties, to take and certify:
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of
real property or of any other written instrument;
2. he acknowledgment of a satisfaction of a judgment
of any court;
3. An aﬂidavit or deposition to be used in this Territory.
SECTION 3920. If an ap lication for an order, made to a
Judge of a court in which tlie action or proceeding is end
ing, is refused, in whole or in part, or is granted con ition
ally, no subsequent ap lication for the same order can be
made to any other Ju ge, except of a hi her court; but noth
ing in this section applies to motions re used for any inform
ality in the papers or roceedings necessary to obtain the
order or to motions re used, wit liberty to renew the same.
SEC. 3921.’ A violation of the last section may be pun
ished as a contempt, and an order made contrary thereto
mag’ be revoked by the Judge who made it, or vacated by a
J u ge of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pen ing.
SEC. 3922. No proceeding in any court of justice in an
action or special proceedin pending therein, is affected by
a vacancy in the office of a l or any of the Judges, or by
the failure of a term thereof.
SEC. 3923. Every written proceedin
Justice in this Territory shall be in the nglish language.
and judicial porceedings shall be conducted, preserved and
published in no other.
SEC. 3924. Such abbreviations as are in common use
may be used, and numbers may be expressed by ﬁgures or
numerals. in the customary manner.
in a Court of
SEC. 3925. When jurisdiction is, by this code or by any
other statute, conferred on a court or judicial ofﬁcer all the
means necessary to carr it into effect are also given; and in
the exercise of the juris iction if the course of roceedings
be not specially pointed out by this code,0r the fatute, any
suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted
which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this code.
SECTION 3935. A j ur is a body of men temporarily select
ed from the citizens o a
articular district and invested
with power to present or in ict a person for a public offense
or to try a question of fact. _
SEC. 3936. Juries are of three kinds:
1.
2.
3.
Grand juries;
Trial juries;
Juries of inquest.
SEC. 3937. A grand jury is a body of men, sixteen in
number, returned in pursuance of law from citizens of the
county before a court of competent jurisdiction. and sworn
to inquire of public offenses committed or triable within the
county. _ _
SEC. 3938. A trial jury is a body of men returned from
the citizens of a particular district before a court or oﬂicer
of competent jurisdiction, and sworn to try and determine
by a unanimous verdict a question of fact.
SEC. 3939. A trial jury in the district consists of twelve,
and in the Probate and Justices’ Courts, of six men, unless
the parties to the action or proceeding agree upon a less
number.
SEC. 3940. A jury of inquest is a body of men sum
moned from the citizens of a particular district, before the
Sheriff, Coroner or other ministerial oﬂicer to inquire of par
ticular facts.
be:
SEC. 3941. A person is competent to act as a juror if he
1.
2.
3.
O
A citizen of the United States and an elector of the
countv;
In possession of his natural faculties and not decrepit;
Possessed of sufficient knowledge of the language in
which the proceedings of the courts are held.
SEC. 3942. A person is not competent to act as a juror:
1. Who does not possess the quahﬁcations prescribed by
the preceding section;
2. Who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
SEC. 3943. A person is exempt from liability to act as a.
juror if he be:
1. A judicial, civil or military oﬂicer of the United States
or of the Territory of Idaho;
2. A person holdin a county office;
3. An attorney an counsellor at law;
t_ 4. A minister of the gospel or a priest of any
ion;
5. A teacher in a college, academy or school;
6. A practicing physician;
7. An oﬂicer, keeper or attendant of an almshouse, hos
pital, asylum, or other charitable institution;
8. Engaged in the performance of duty as oﬂicer or at
tendant of a. county jail or the Territorial prison;
9. An express a ent, mail carrier, telegraph operator,
telephone agent, or eeper of a public ferry or toll gate;
10. A dispensing druggist of a prescription drug store;
11. A superintendent, engineer, conductor, ﬁreman, or
station agent of a railroad;
12. A person drawn as a juror in the District Court, and
who has served as such within a year; but this exemption
shall not apply to a person who is summoned on a. special
Eenire, or to serve as a juror in the Probate or Justices’
ourt.
S110. 3944. Twenty regularly enrolled active members
of any ﬁre department for every thousand inhabitants of
the town or city where such ﬁre de artment is located, and
exempt from jury duty, and the Chief Engineer or Fore
man of the De artment must designate from the active
members, and tiie County Recorder must issue certiﬁcates
of exemption for one year to the number of active members
so exem t.
SEC. 945. A juror cannot be excused by the court for
slight or trivial cause, or for hardshi , or inconvenience to
his business, but onl when materia injury or destru_ct1o_n
to his pro erty, or -t at of the ublic intrusted to him is
threatene , or when his own hea th or the sickness or death
of a member of his family, requires his absence.
SEC. 3946. If a person exempt from liabilit to as a
'uror, as provided in section 3943, be suinmone as a ]11r01‘,
e ma make and transmit his affidavit to the clerk of the
court or which he is summoned, stating his oﬁice, occupa
tion or em loyment- and such aﬂidavit shall be delivered
by the Cler to the judge of the court when tlie name of
such person is called, and, if sufﬁcient in substance, it shall
be received as an excuse for non-attendance in person. The
aﬂidavit shall then be ﬁled b ' the Clerk.
SEC. 3947. The Board o Commissioners ﬁf each coun
ty must, at their ﬁrst regular meeting in eac i year, _or at
any other meeting, if neglected at the ﬁrst, make a list of
persons to serve as jurors in the District Court of the coun
ty, for the ensuing year. '
denomina
SEC. 3948. They must proceed to select and list from g
the poll lists of the several precincts in their respective
counties, last returned to the clerk of their Board, the
names of one hundred and ﬁfty persons competent to serve
as jurors; and in making such selection, they must take the
names of such only as are not exempt from serving, who
are in possession of their natural faculties, and not inﬁrm
or decrepit, of fair character, of a proved inte rity, and of
sound judgment; Provided, That i , in any of t e counties,
the County Commissioners shall not be able to select the
number re uired by this section, for 'urors, they may select
a less num er and the highest possib e.
SEC. 3949. Certiﬁed lists of the persons selected to serve L
as jurors must at once be placed in the possession of the i
Clerk of the District Court. , °
SEC. 3950. 0n receiving such lists, the Clerk must ﬁle
the same in his oﬂice, and write down the names contained f
therein on separate pieces of paper, of the same size and ap
pearance, and fold each piece so as to conceal the name
ghereon, and deposit them in a box to be called the “jury
ox.”
SEC. 3951. The persons whose names are so returned
are known as regular jurors, and must serve for one year,
and until other ersons are selected and returned.
SEC. 3952. ot less than ﬁfteen nor more than thirt
days before the commencement of aniybterm of the District
Court, the Judge thereof, if a jurv wil e re uired therefore,
must make and ﬁle with the Clerk an or er that one be
drawn. The number to be drawn» must be ﬁxed in the or
der; if to form a grand jury, it must be twent days, and
if a trial jur , such number as the Judge may irect. .
SEC. 395 . At least one da before the drawing, the
Clerk must notify the Sheriff an Probate Judge of the time
when such drawing will take place, which time must not be
more than three days after the receipt by him of the order
for such drawing.
SEC. 3954. At the time so appointed, ‘the Sheriﬁ’, in
person or by deputy, and the Probate Judge, must attend at
the Clei'k’s office to witness such drawing, and if they do so,
the Clerk must, in their presence, proceed to draw the
urors.
J SEC. 3955. If the officers so notiﬁed do not appear, the
Clerk must adjourn the drawing until the next day, and, by
written notice, I‘6(%1i1‘e two electors of the county to attend
such drawin on t e adjourned dag.
SEC. 395 . If, at the adjourne da , the Sheriff, Probate
Jud e, and electors, or any two of suc persons, appear, the
Cler must in their presence proceed to raw the jurors.
SEC. 3957. The Clerk must conduct such drawing as
follows: 1. He must shake the box containing the names of jurors
returned to him, from which jurors are required_to be
drawn, so as to mix the slips of pa er upon which such
names were written, as much as possi le;
2. He must then publicly draw out of the box as many
such slips of paper as are ordered by the Judge;
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the
attending officers in which must be entered the names con
425.
_ _ y
tained on every slip of paper so drawn, before any other slip
is drawn;
4. If after drawing the whole number required, the name
of any person has been drawn who is dead or insane, or who
has permanently removed from the county, to the knowledge
of the Clerk or an other attending oﬁﬁcer, an entry of such
fact must be ma e in the minute of the drawing, and the
slip of paper containing such name must be destroyed;
5. Another name must then be drawn, in lace of that
contained on the slip of paper so destroyed. W ich must in
like manner, be entered in the minutes of the drawing;
6. The same proceeding must be had as often as may be
gecessary, until the whole number of jurors required are
rawn
7. The minute of the drawing must then be signed by the
Clerk and the attending officers or persons, and ﬁled in the
Clerk's oﬁice;
Separate lists of the names of the persons so drawn
for trial jurors, and of those drawn for grand jurors, speci
fying for what court they were drawn, must be made and
certiﬁed by the Clerk and the attending ofﬁcers or persons,
and delivered to the Sheriff of the county;
fl. If both a grand and Eetit ju are ordered at the same
drawin , the grand jury s all be giawn ﬁrst.
SEC. 958. After the adjournment of any court at which
jurors have been returned as herein provided, the Clerk
must inclose the ballots containing the names of those who
attended and served as jurors in an envelope under seal, and
the ballots of those who did not attend and serve must be
returned to the jury box. The ballots sealed in envelopes
must not be returned to the jury box.
SEC. 3959. The Clerk of the District Court must furnish
any person applying therefore and paying the fees allowed
by law for the same, a copy of the list of jurors drawn to at
tend an court.
SEC. 960. As soon as he receives the list of jurors
drawn, the Sheriff must summon the persons named therein
to attend by giving personal notice to each, or by leaving a
written notice at his place of residence, with some person of
roper a e, and must return the list to the court at the time
xed in t e order for their a pearance, specifying the names
of those who are summone and the manner in which each
person was notiﬁed. The grand jurors shall be summoned
to appfar on the ﬁrst day of the term, at the hour of eleven
o’cloc in the forenoon, and the trial jurors on such daiy of
the term, and at such hour as the presiding Judge o t
court ma b order direct.
SEC. 3 6 . Whenever jurors are not drawn and suin
moned to attend any court of record, or a sufficient number
of jurors fail to appear, such court may, in its discretion.
order a sufﬁcient number to be drawn and summoned to at
tend such court; or it may, by an order entered on its min
utes, direct the Sheriff of the county to summon so many
good and lawful men of his county to serve as jurors as the
case may require. And in either case such jurors must be
summoned in the manner provided by the preceding section.
he
SEC. 3962. When there are not competent jurors enough
present to form a panel, the court may direct the Sheriff or
other pro er officer to summon a suﬁiclent number of persons
havin t 1e ualiﬁcations of jurors, to complete the panel
from t e bo y of the county or from the bystanders, and the
Sheriff must summon the number so ordered, accordingly,
and return the names to the court. The jurors summoned
under this or the preceding section, ma be required to ap*
pear forthwith or at a time to be name in the order, as the
court may direct, and the oﬁicer summonindg such jurors
shall return the order as hereinbefore provide .
SEC. 3963. When jurors are required in any Probate or
Justice’s Court, they must, upon the order of the Judge or
Justice thereof, be summoned by the Sheriff, Marshal or
Constable of the jurisdiction.
SEC. 3964. Such jurors must be summoned from the
persons resident of the city or precinct competent to serve as
_]l1l'01'S, by notifying them oral y that they are so summoned,
and 05 the time an place at which their attendance is re
quire .
SEC. 3965. The oﬂicer summoning such jurors must, at
the time ﬁxed in the order for their appearance, return the
venire with a list of the ersons summoned indorsed thereon.
SEC. 3966. Juries o inquest must be summoned by the
ofﬁcer before whom the proceedings are had, or any Sheriff
or Constable, from the persons resident of the county com
petent to serve as jurors, by notifying them orally that they
are so summoned, and of the time an place at which their
attendance is required.
SEC. 3967. Any juror summoned who willfully and
without reasonable excuse. fails to attend, may be attached
and compelled to attend, and the court may also impose a
ﬁne not exceeding one hundred dollars, upon which execu
tion may issue. If the juror was not personally served, the
ﬁne must not be imposed until, upon an order to show cause,
an opportunity has been offered the juror to be heard.
SEC. 3968. At the o ening of each regular term of the
District Court (unless ot erwise directed by the Judge), and
as often thereafter as to the Judge may seem proper, a
grand jury may be empaneled.
SEC. 3969. Sixteen persons shall constitute a grand jury,
twelve of whom shall constitute a quorum, and when of the
jurors summoned, no more nor less than sixteen attend they
shall constitute the grand jurv. If more than sixteen attend
the Clerk must call over the list summoned, and the sixteen
ﬁrst answering shall constitute the and jury. If less than
sixteen attend, the panel may be ﬁl ed to sixteen as provid
ed in section 3961.
SEC. 3970. Thereafter such proceedings shall be had in
empaneling the grand jury as are prescribed by the criminal
practice.
SEC. 3971. At the time when the order for the trial
jurors was made returnable, or as soon thereafter as con
venient, the Clerk, under the direction of the court must call
the names of those summoned, and the court may then hear
the excuses of jurors summoned.
The Clerk must then write the names of jurors present,
and not excused, upon separate slips or ballots of paper, and
fold such slips so the names are concealed, and then in the
presence of the court, deposit the slips or ballots in a box,
whichdmust kept sealed until ordered by the court to be
opene .
SEC. 3972. When thereafter an action is called for trial
by the jury, such proceedings shall be had in empaneling the
trial jur as are rescribed in this code.
SEC. 973. t the time appointed for a jury trial, in Pro
bate or Justices’ Courts, the list of jurors summoned shall be
called. If a sufficient number of jurors are in attendance, the
Probate Judge or Justice may proceed to empanel the jury.
When there are not competent jurors enough present to
form a panel the Jud e or Justice may direct the proper of
ﬁcer to summon a su cient number of persons, having the
qualiﬁcations of jurors to complete the panel and such oﬂi
cer must summon the number so ordered, accordingly and
return the same into court forthwith or at such time as may
be designated in the order.
SEC. 3974. Thereafter, if the action is a criminal one, the
jury must be empaneled as provided by the statutes relating
thereto. If a civil one as provided by this code.
SEC. 3975. The mode and manner of empaneling juries
of inquest are provided for in the provisions of the different
statutes relating to such inquests.
SECTION 3990. Any wliit-e male citizen, or white male
person, resident of this Territory, who has bona ﬁde declared
is intention to become a citizen in the manner required by
law: of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral char
acter, and who possesses the necessary qualiﬁcations of
learning and ability, is entitled to admission as attorney and
counselor in all courts of this Territory.
SEC. 3991. Every applicant for admission as an at
torney and counselor must produce satisfactory testimonials
of good moral character, and, except as hereinafter‘pro
vided, undergo a strict examination in open court as to his
qualiﬁcations, by the Justices of the Su reme court; Pro
vided, That the several District Courts o this Territory may
admit applicants to practice as attorneys and counselors in
ﬁheir respective courts upon like testimonials and examina
lOIl. .
SEC. 3992. If, upon such examination in the Supreme
Court. the applicant is found qualiﬁed, the court shall ad
mit him as attorney and counselor in all the courts of this
Territory, andshall direct an order to be entered to that ef
fect upon its records, and that a certiﬁcate of such record be
'ven to him by the Clerk of the Court, which certiﬁcate is
is license.
SEC. 3993. Every person, before receiving license to
practice law, shall take the oath prescribed by law, and shall
ay to the Territorial Treasurer the sum of twenty-ﬁve dol
are for the use of the Territorial Library Fund, and the
Clerk of the Court shall require of the person so admitted the
receipt of the said Treasurer, before issuing such license, and
in no case shall the oath be administered or the license is
sued until such receipt is produced and ﬁled in the oﬂice of
the Clerk.
SEC. 3994. The examination may be dispensed with in
the case of a (person who has been admitted attorney and
counselor, an is still in good standing as such, in the
highest court of any State or other Territory, and his affi
davit of such admission and standing, showing the county,
State or Territory, the name of the court, and the time
when such admission was obtained, or his license showing
the same, shall be deemed sufficient to entitle him to ad
mission, with affidavit of such standing.
SEC. 3995. Each Clerk must keep a roll of attorneys and
counselors admitted to practice by the court of which
he 1S Clerk, which roll must be signed by the person admitted
before he receives a license.
SEC. 3996. If any person shall practice law in any
court, except a J ustice’s Court, without having received a
license as attorney and counselor, he is guilty of a contempt
of court.
SEC. 3997. It is the duty of an attorney and counselor:
1. To support the constitution and laws of the United
States and of this Territory;
2. To maintain the respect due to the Courts of Justice
and judicial officers;
3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings, or
defenses only as a pear to him legal or just, except the de
fense of a person c arged with a public offense;
4. To employ, for t e purpose of maintaining the causes
conﬁded to him, such means only as are consistent with
truth, and never seek to mislead the Judges by an artiﬁce or
false statement of fact or law;
5. To maintain inviolate the conﬁdence, and at every
peril to himself, to preserve the secrets of his client;
6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to ad
vance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a
party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause
with which he is charged;
7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the con
tinuance of an action or proceeding from any motive of pas
sion or interest; i
8. Never to reject for any consideration personal to him
self the cause of the defenseless or the op ressed.
SEC. 3998. An attorney and counse or has authority:
1. To bind his client in any of the ste s of an action or
proceeding, by his agreement ﬁled with t eClerk, or entered
upon the minutes of the court and not otherwise;
2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or
proceeding during the endency thereof, or after judgment,
unless a revocation of is authority is ﬁled, and upon the
payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim
or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment.
SEC. 3999. The attorney in an action or special pro
ceeding may be changed at any time before judgment or
ﬁnal determination as follows:
1. U on his own consent, ﬁled with the Clerk, or entered
upon t e minutes;
2. Upon the order of the court or Judge thereof, upon the
ap lication of the client, after notice to the attorney. _
no. 4000. When an attorney is changed, as provided
in the last section, written notice of the change and of the
substitution of anew attorney, or of the appearance of the
party in person, must be ven to the adverse party; until
then, he must recognize t e former attorney.
SEC. 4001. When an attorney dies, or is removed or
suspended, or ceases to act as such, a party to an action for
whom he was acting as attorney must, before any further
proceedings are had against him, be re uired by the adverse
party,by written notice, to appoint anot er attorney orto ap
pear in person.
SEC. 4002. An attorney and counselor may be removed
or suspended by the Su reme Court and by the District
Courts for either of the ollowing causes, arising after his
admission to practice:
1. His conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, in which case the record of conviction is
conclusive evidence
2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of the
court requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with
or in the course of his profession, and any violation of the
oalth taken by him or his duties as such attorney and coun
se or;
3. Corruptly and without authority appearing as attor
ney for adpartﬁ to an action or procee ing;
4. Len ing is name to be used as an attorney and coun
sellor by any other person who is not an attorney and coun
se or
5. I<‘ailure for ten days after written demand, and pay
ment or tender of the fees and expenses due him from his
client to pay over or deliver any money or other property
belonging to his client, which he shall have received in his
oﬂice of attorney or counselor in the course of collection
or settlement of any claim or demand.
In all cases where an attorney is removed or suspended
by a District Court, the jud ent or order of removal or
séuspletnsion, may be reviewe on appeal, by the Supreme
on .
SEC. 4003. In case of the conviction of an attorney or
counselor of a felony, or misdemeanor involving moral tur
pitude, the Clerk of the Court in which a conviction is had,
must, within thirty days thereafter, transmit to the Supreme
Court a certiﬁed copy of the record of conviction.
SEC. 4004. The proceedin to remove or suspend an
attorney and counselor under t e ﬁrst sub-division of sec
tion 4002, must be taken by the court on the receipt of a certi
ﬁed copy of the record of conviction. The proceedings un
der the second sub-division of section 4002, may be taken by
the court for matters within its knowledge, or may be taken
upon the information of another.
SEC. 4005. If the proceeding?
are upon the information
of another, the accusation must e in writing.
SEC. 4006. The accusation must state the matters
charged, and be veriﬁed by the oath of some person to the
effect that the charges therein contained are true.
SEC. 4007. After receiving the accusation the court
must, if in its opinion the case re uires it, make an order re
quiring the accused to appear an answer the accusation at
a speciﬁed time in the same or subsequent term, and must
cause a copy of the order and of the accusation to be served
upon the accused within a prescribed time before the day
ap ointed in the order.
EC. 4008. The accused must appear at the time appoint
ed in the order and answer the accusation, unless for suffi
cient cause the court assign another day for that purpose;
if he does not appear, the court may proceed and determine
the accusation in his absence.
SEC. 4009. The accused may answer to the accusation
either by objecting to suﬁiciency or denying it.
SEC. 4010. If he object to the suﬂiciency of the accusa
tion, the objection must be in writing, but need not be in any
speciﬁc form, it being suﬂicient if it presents intelligibly
t e grounds of the objection. If he deny the accusation, the
denial may be oral and without oath, and must be entered
upon the minutes.
SEC. 401 1. If an objection to the suiﬁciency of the ac
cusation he not sustained, the accused must answer within
such time as ma ' be designated by the court.
SEC. 4012. f the accused plead guilty, or refuse to an
swer the accusation, the court must proceed to judgment of
removal or suspension. If he deny the matters char ed, the
court must, at such time as it may appoint, procee to try
the accusation.
SEC. 4013. The court may, in its discretion, order a
reference to a committee to take depositions in the matter.
SEC. 4014. Upon conviction, in cases arisin under the
ﬁrst subdivision of section -1002, the judgment o the court
must be that the name of the party must be stricken from
the roll of attorneys and counselors of the court, and that
he be precluded from racticing as such attorney or counsel
or in all the courts otp this Territory, and upon conviction
in cases under the other subdivisions of that section, the
judgment of the court may be according to the gravity of
the offense charged—depr1vation of the right to practice as
an attorney or counselor in the courts of this Territory,
permanently, or for a limited period.
SECTION 4.-020. There is in this Territory but one form
of civil actions for the enforcement or protection of private
rights and the redress or prevention of J)I‘lV3,t6 wrongs;
Provided, That in all matters not regulate by this code, in
which there is any conﬂict or variance between the rules of
equity jurisprudence and the rules of the common law, with
reference to the same matter, the rules of equity shall pre
va1 . .
SEC. 4021. In such actions the party complaining is
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
SEC. 4022. A question of fact not put in issue by the
pleadings may be tried by a jury upon an order forthe trial,
stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried;
and s'uch order is the only authority necessary for a trial.
SECTION 4030. Civil actions can only be commenced
within the lperiods prescribed in this Title, after the cause of
action shal have accrued, except when in special cases, a
different limitation is prescribed by statute.
CHAPTER II.
Fox THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.
SECTION
4035. When the geople will not sue.
4036. Beizin wit in ﬁve years when nec
essary in action for real property.
Such seizin when necessary in ac
4037. 4042.
4038.
4039.
4040.
tion or defense arising out of title
to or rents oi real property.
Entry on real estate.
Possession when presumed. Occu
pation deemed under legal title,
unless adverse.
Occupation under written instru
ment or judgment, when deemed
adverse.
Sscrrox
40-ll. What constitutes adverse posses
4043.
4044.
4045.
40-16.
sion underwritten instrument or
judgment.
Premises actually occupied under
claim oi title deemed to be held
adversely.
Wliatconstitutes adversepossession
under claim of title not written.
Relation oi’ landlord and tenant as
aifecting adverse possession.
Right oi possession not affected by
descent caste.
Certain disabilities excluded ii-om
time to commence actions.
SECTION 4035. The people of this Territory will nbt sue
any person for or in respect to any real property or the
issues or proﬁts thereof, by reason of the right or title of
the people to the same unless:
1. Such right or title shall have accrued within ten years
before any action or other proceeding for the same is com
menced; or
2. The people or those from whom they claim, shall have
received the rents and proﬁts of such real property, or of
some part thereof within the s ace of ten years.
SEC. 4036. No action for t e recovery of real roperty,
or for the recovery of the possession thereof, can e main
tained, unless it appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor, pre
decessor or grantor, was seized or possessed of the property
in question within ﬁve years before the commencement of
the action; and this section includes possessory rights to
lands and minin claims.
SEC. 4037. o cause of action, or defense to an action,
arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or proﬁts
out of the same, can be effectual unless it a pears that the
person prosecuting the action, or makin t e defense, or
under whose title the action is prosecute or the defense is
made, or the ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, of such per
son was seized or possessed of the premises in question with
in ﬁve years before the commencement of the act in respect
to which such action is prosecuted or defense made.
SEC. 4038. No entry upon real estate is deemed suﬂi
cient or va.lid as a claim, unless an action be commenced
thereupon within one year after making such entry, and
within ﬁve years of the time when the right to make it de
scended or accrued.
SEC. 4039. In’ ever action for the recovery of real rop
erty, or the possession t ereof, 3.5)61‘SOD establishing a legal title to the pro erty is presume to have been possessed
thereof within t e time required by law, and the occupation
of the pro erty by another person is deemed to have been
under an in su ordination to the legal title, unless it a pear that the roperty has been he d and possessed a versely
to such egal title, for ﬁve ' years before the com
mencement of the action.
SEC. 4040. When it appears that the occupant, or those
under whom he claims, entered into the possession of the
property under claim of title, exclusive of other right, found
ing suc claim upon a written instrument, as bem a con
ve ance of the property in question, or upon the ecree or
ju gment of a competent court, and that there has been a
continued occupation and possession of the property in
cluded in such instrument, decree or jud ment, or of some
part of the pro erty under such claim, or ﬁve years, the
property so inc uded is deemed to have been held adversely
except that when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the
ossession of one lot, is not deemed a possession of any other
ot of the same tract.
SEC. 4041. For the urpose of constituting
possession by a person c aiming a title founde upon a writ
ten instrument, or a judgment or decree, land is deemed to
have been possessed and occu ied in the following cases:
1. Where it has been usual y cultivated or improved;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclos
ure;
3. Where, althou h not inclosed, it has been used for the
supply of fuel, or of encing timber for the purposes of hus
bandry, or for pasturage, or for the ordinary use of the oc
cupant;
4. Where a known farm or single lot has been partl im
roved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have een
eft not cleared, or not inclosed according to the usual
course and custom of the adjoining countr , shall be deemed
to have been occu ied for the same lengt of time as the
part improved an cultivated.
SEC. 4042. Where it ap ears that there has been an ac
tual continued occupation o land, under a claim of title, ex
clusive of any other right, but not founded upon a written
instrument, Judgment or decree, the land so actually occu
pied, and no other, is deemed to have been held adversely.
SEC. 4043. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon a
written instrument, jud ent, or decree, land is deemed to
halve been possessed an occupied in the following cases
on y:
1. Where it has been protected by a substantial inclos
ure;
2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Provided, however, That in no case shall adverse posses
an adverse
sion_ be considered established under the provisions of any sections of this Code, unless it shall be shown that the land
has been occupied and claimed for the period of ﬁve years
continuously, and the garty or persons, their redecessors
and grantors, have pai all the taxes, territoria , county, or
municipal, which have been levied and assessed upon such
land according to law.
Si:o._4044. When the relation of landlord and tenant
has existed between any persons, the possession of the ten
ant is deemed the possession of the landlord until the ex
piration of ﬁve years from the termination of the tenancy,
or, where there has been no written lease, until the expira
tion of ﬁve years from the time of the last payment of rent,
notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired an
other title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his
landlord. But such gresumptions cannot be made after the
periods herein limite .
SEC. 4045. The right of a person to the ossession of
real property is not impaired or affected by _a escent caste
in consequence of the death of a person in possession of
such property. _ _
SEC. 4046. If a person entitled to commence an action
for the recovery of real property, or for the recover of the
possession thereof, or to make any entry ordefense ounded
on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of
theil same, be at the time such title ﬁrst descends or accrues,
eit er:
1. VVitl1in the age of majority; or
2. Insane; or
Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution, upon
conviction of a criminal offense, for aterm less than for life;
or,
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary
party with her in commencing such action or making such
entry or defense:
The term during which such disability continues is not
deemed any portion of the time in this title limited for the
commencement of such action or the making of such entry
or defense, but such action may be commenced, or entry or
defense made, within the period of ﬁve ears after such dis
ability shall cease, or after the death o the person entitled
who shall die under such disability; but such action shall not
be commenced, or entry or defense made, after that period.
CHAPTER III.
Fon THE RECOVERY or Psornarv OTHER THAN REAL.
33¢-non SECTION
4050. Periods of limitation prescribed. 4059. Action for a. deposit.
4051. Within six years. 4060. Actions tor rehai not hereinbofore
4052. Within ﬁve years. provided for.
4053. Within four years. 4061 . Actions by the poo le subject to the
405-l. Within three years. limitations oi th s Title.
4055. Within two years. 4062. Action to redeem ii mortgage with
4056. Within one year. out account of rents an proﬁts.
4057. Within six months. 4063. Same, when there are two or more
4058. Where cause oi action accrues on such mortgages.
niutusl account.
SECTION 4050. The periods prescribed for the com
mencement of actions other than for the recovery of real
property, are as follows:
SEC. 4051. Within six years:
1. An action upon a 'udgment or decree of any court of
the United States, or of] any State or Territory within the
United States;
. 2. An action for mesne proﬁts of real property.
SEC. 4052. Within ﬁve years:
An action upon any contract, obligation, or liability
founded upon an instrument in writing.
SEC. 4053. Within four years:
An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, not
founded upon an instrument of writing.
SEC. 4054. VVithin three years:
1. An action u on a liability created by statute, other
than a penalty or orfeitnre;
2. An action for trespass upon real property;
3. An action for takmg, detaining, or injuring any goods
or chattels, including actions for t e speciﬁc recovery of
personal property;
4. An action for relief on the ground of fraud ormistake.
The cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constitutin the fraud or mistake.
SEC. 4055. ithin two years:
1. An action against a Sheriff, Coroner, or Constable, upon the liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official
ca acity, and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an
o cial duty, including the non-payment of money collected
upon an execution;
2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture.
where the action is given to an‘ individual, or to an indi
vidual and the Territory, except where the statute imposing
it prescribes a different limitation;
. 3. An action upon a statute or upon an undertaking in
a criminal action for a forfeiture or penalty to a county or
to the people of the Territory;
4. An action to recover damages for the death of one
caused by the wrongful act of another;
5. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false
imprisonment or seduction; 5
6. An action against a Sheriff or othor ofﬁcer, for the es
ca e of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
EC. 4056. Within one year:
An action against an officer or ofﬁcer de facto:
1. To recover any goods, wares, merchandise, or other
property seized by any such ofﬁcer in his oﬁicial capacity
as tax collector, or to recover the price or value of any goods,
wares, merchandise or other personal property so seized, or
for damages for the seizure, detention, sale of or injury to,
any oods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property
seize , or for damages done to any person or property in
makin any such seizure;
2. or moneyﬂpaid to any such officer under protest, or
seized by such o cer in his oﬂicial capacity as a collector
of taxes, and which, it is claimed, ought to be refunded.
SEC. 4057. Actions on claims against a county which
have been rejected by the Board of Commissioners, must be
commenced within six months after the ﬁrst rejection there
of by such Board.
SEC. 4058. In an action brought to recover a balance
due upon a mutual, o en and current account, where there
have een reciprocal emands between the parties, the cause
of action is deemed to have accrued from the time of the last
item proved in the account on either side.
SEC. 4059. To actions brought to recover money or
other property deposited with any bank, banker, trust coin
pany, or savings and loan society, no limitation begins to
run until after an authorized demand.
SEC. 4060. An action for relief not hereinbefore provid
ed for, must be commenced within four years after the cause
of action shall have accrued.
SEC. 4061. The limitations prescribed in this Title, ap
ply to actions brought in the name of the Territory, or for
the beneﬁt of the '1erritory, in the same manner as to ac
tions by private parties. SEO.
4062. An action to redeem a mortgage of real
property, with or without an account of rents and proﬁts,
may be brought by the mortgagor or those claimin under
him, algainst the mortga ee in possession, or those c aiming
under im, unless he or t e ' have continuously inaintaine
an adverse possession of t e mortgaged premises for ﬁve
years after breach of some condition of the mortgage.
SEC. 4063. If there is more than one such mortgagor,
or more than one person claiming under a mortgagor, some
of whom are not entitled to maintain such an action under
the provisions of this Title, any one of them who is entitled
to maintain such an action, may redeem therein a divided
or undivided part of the mortgaged premises, according as
his interest ma appear, and have an accounting for a part
of the rents an proﬁts proportionate to his interest in the
mortgaged premises, on payment of a part of the mortgage
money, bearing the same roportioii to the whole of such
money as the value of his ivided or undivided interest in
the premises, bears to the whole of such premises.
CHAPTER IV.
GENERAL PRO\'ISIOi\'S.
SECTION
4068. When an notion is commenced.
4069. Exception, where defendant is out
oi the Territory.
4070. Exception, as to persons under dis
abilities.
-i07l. Provision where person entitled dies
before limitation expires.
-1072.
4073.
4074.
In suits by aliens, time of war to be
deducted.
Provision where judgment has been
reversed.
Provision where action ls stayed by
injunction.
SECTION
4075. Disability must exist when right oi’
action accrued.
4076. When two or more disabilities exist,
4077.
4073.
4079.
4080.
etc.
This Title not applicable to actions
againstdirectors, etc. Limitations
in such cases prescribed.
Acknowledgment or new promise
must be in writing.
Limitation laws oi other states, ei
iect of.
Word "action", construedghow.
SECTION 4068. An action is commenced within the
meaning of the title, when the complaint is ﬁled.
SEC. 4069. If, when the cause of action accrues against
a person, he is out of the Territor . the action may be com
menced witliin the term herein imited, after his return to
the Territory, and if, after the cause of action accrues, he
departs from the Territory, the time of his absence is not
part of the time limited for the commencement of the ac
tion. .
Sac. 4070. If a person entitled to bring an action, other
than for the recovery of real property, be, at the time the
cause of action accrued, either:
1. Within the age of majority; or
2. Insane; or,
3. Imprisoned on a criminal char e, or in execution un
ilgr the sentence of a criminal court or a term less than for
1 e; or,
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary
party with her in ‘commencing such action:
The time of such disability is not a part of the time lim
ted for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 4071. If a person entitled to bring an action die
before the expiration of the term limited for the commence
ment thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action
may be commenced by his representatives, after the expira
tion of that time, and within one year from his death. If
a person against whom an action may be brought die before
the ex iration of the time limited for the commencement
thereo , and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced against his representatives, after the expiration
of that time, and within one year after the issuing of let
ters testamentar or of administration.
SEC. 4072. hen a person is an alien subject, or citi
zen of a country at war with the United States, the time of
the continuance of the war is not part of the period limited
for the commencement of the action. SEC. 4073. If an action is commenced within the time
rescribed therefore, and a jud ent therein for the plaintifff
e reversed on appeal. the p aintiff, or if he die and the
cause of action survive, his representatives may commence
a new action within one year after the reversal.
SEC. 4074. “Then the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of
the continuance of the injunction or prohibition is not part
of the time limited for the commencement of the action.
SEC. 4075. No person can avail himself of a disability,
unless it existed when his right of action accrued.
SEC. 4076. When two or more disabilities co-exist at
the time the right of action accrues, the limitation does not
attach until they are removed.
SEC. 4077. This Title does not affect actions against
directors or stockholders of a corporation to recover a pen
alty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created
by law- but such actionsmust be brought within three years
after the discovery by the afggrieved party of the facts
upon which the penalty or for eiture attached, or the liabil
ity was created.
SEC. 4078. No acknowledgment or promise is suﬂicient
evidence of a new or continuin contract, by which to take
the case out of the operation o this Title, unless the same
is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby.
SE0. 4079. When a cause of action has arisen in anoth
er state or territory, or in a foreign country, and by the
laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintained
against a person by reason of the lapse of time, an action
thereon shall not be maintained a ainst him in this Territo
iiy, except in favor of one who as been a citizen of this
erritory, and who has held the cause of action from the
time it accrued.
SEC. 4080. The word “action” as used in this Title, is to
be construed, whenever it is necessary so to do, as including
a special proceeding of a civil nature.
SECTION 4090. Every action must be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise pro
vided by this Code. SEC. 4091. In the case of an assignment of a. thing in
action, the action b the assignee is without prejudice to any
set-off, or other de ense existiii at the time of, or before,
notice of the assignment; but t is section does not ap ly to
a negotiable instrument, transferred in good faith andpupon
good consideration, before maturity.
SEC. 4092. An executor, or administrator, or trustee of
an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute
may sue without joining with him the persons for whose
beneﬁt the action 1S prosecuted. A person with whom, or
in whose name a contract is made for the beneﬁt of another,
is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section.
SEC. 4093. When a married woman is a party, her hus
band must be joined with her, except:
1. When the action concerns her separate property, or
hpr right or claim to the homestead property, she may sue
a one;
2. When the action is between herself and her husband,
she may sue or be sued alone;
3. When she is living separate and apart from her hus
band, by reason of his desertion of her, or by agreement in
wiriting entered into between them, she may sue or be sued
a one.
SEC. 4094. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend her own right, and if the husband neglect
to defend, she may defend for his right also.
SEC. 4095. \Vhen an infant, or an insane or incompe
tent person is a party, he must a pear either by his general
guar _ian, or by a guardian ad li em a pointed by the court
in which the action is pending in eac case, or by a judge
thereof, or a Probtae Jud e. A guardian ad llitem may be
appointed in any case, w en it is deemed by the court in
which the action or proceeding is prosecuted, or by a judge
thereof, expedient to represent the infant, insane or incom
etent person in the action or proceeding, notwithstandin
e may have a general guardian and may have appeare
by him.
SEC. 4096. When a guardian ad litem is a pointed by
the court or judge, he must be ap ointed as fol ows:
1. When the infant is plaintifff); upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under
thgit ztge, upon the application of a relative or friend of the
In an ;
2-. When the infant is defendant; upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years and apply
within ten days after the service of the summons; if he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a re
lative or friend of the infant;
When an insane or incompetent person is party to an
action or proceeding, upon the application of a relative or
friend of such insane or incompetent person, or of any other
party to the action or proceeding.
SEC. 4097. An unmarried female may prosecute, as
plaintifff, an action for her own seduction, and may r_ecover
therein such damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as are as
sessed in her favor.
SEC. 4098. “A father, or, in case of his death or desertion
of his famil , the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the
seduction o a daughter, under the age of majority at the
time of the seduction, and the guardian for the seduction of
a ward, under the age of majority at the time of the seduc
tion, though the daughter or ward be not livin with or in
the service of the plaintifff at the time of the se uction or af
terwards, and there be no loss of service.
SEC. 4099. A father, or in caseof his death or desertion
of his family, the mother. may maintain an action for the
injury or death of a minor child. and a guardian for the
injury or death of his ward, when such injury or death is
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. Such ac
tion may be maintained against the person causing the iii
jury or death, or if such erson be employed by another per
son, who is responsible or his conduct, also against such
other person.
SEC. 4100. When the death of a person, not being a
minor, is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another,
his heirs or personal representatives may maintain an ac
tion for damages against the person causing the death; or if
such erson be employed by another person who is respon
sible or his conduct, then also against such other person.
In every action under this and the plreceding section, such
damages may be given as under allt e circumstances of the
case ma be just.
SEC. 101. All persons having an interest in the sub
'ect of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may
lilejoiiigd as plaintifffs, except w en otherwise provided in
t is co e.
SEC. 4102. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the
plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete deter
mination or settlement of the question involved therein.
And in an action to determine the title or right of possession
to real property which, at the time of the commencement of
the action, is in the possession of a tenant, the landlord may
be joined as a party defendant.
SEC. 4103. In an action brought by a person out of pos
session of real propert , to determine an adverse claim of
an interest or estate t erein, the person making such ad
verse claim and persons in possession may be joined as de
fendants; and if the judgment be for the’ plaintifff, he may
have a writ for the possession of the premises, as against
the defendants in the action against whom the judgment
has passed.
SEC. 4104. An two or more persons claiming any es
tate or interest in lands under a common source of title,
whether holding as tenants in common, joints tenants, co
parceiiers, or in severalty, may unite in an action against
any person claiming an adverse estate or interest therein,
for t e purpose of determining such adverse claim, or of es
tablishing such common source of title, or of declaring the
same to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the
same.
SEC. 4105. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs, or defend
ants; but if the consent of any one who should have been
joined as plaintiﬁ cannot be obtained, he may be made a
defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the com laint;
and when the question is one of a common or genera inter
est, of many persons, or when the arties are numerous, and
it is impracticable to bring them a l before the court, one or
more may sue or defend for the beneﬁt of all. ’
SEC. 4106. Persons severally liable upon the same obli
gation or instrument, including the parties to bills of ex
change and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or
separate instruments, may all or any of them be included
in the same action. at the option of the plaintifff.
SEC. 4107. All persons holding as tenants in common,
joint tenants, or coparceiiers, or any number less than all,
may jointly or severally commence or defend any civil ac
tion or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of the
rights o such party. SEC. 4108. An action or proceeding does not abate by
the death or any disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, if the cause of action or proceedings
survive or continue. In case of the death or any disability
of a party, the court, on motion, may allow the action or
proceeding to be continued by or a ainst his representative
or successor in interest. In case 0 any other transfer of in
terest, the action or proceedin may be continued in the
name of the original party, or t e court may allow the per
son to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the
action or proceedin .
SEC. 4109. A <§efendant against whom an action is
pending upon a contract, or for speciﬁc personal property,
may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a per
j
son not a party to the action makes a ainst him, and with
out any collusion with him, a deman upon the same con
tract, or for the same property, upon notice to such person
and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to
substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from
liability to either party, on his depositing in court the
amount claimed on the contract, or deliverin the property
or its value, to such person as the court may irect; and the
court may, in its discretion, make the order.
SEC. 41 10. Whenever conﬂicting claims are or may be
made u on a person for or relating to personal property, or
the pe ormance of an obligation, or any portion thereof,
such person may bring an action against the conﬂicting
claimants to compel them to inter lead and liti ate their
several claims amon themselves. he order of su stitution
may be made, and t e action of inter leader may be main
tained, and the applicant or plainti be discharged from
liability to all or any of the conﬂicting claimants, although
their titles or claims have not a common origin, or are not
idintical, but are adverse to and independent of one an
o er.
SEC. 41 1 1. Any person ma , before the trial, intervene
in an action or proceeding, who as an interest in the matter
in litigation, in the success of either of the parties, or an in
terest against both. An intervention takes place when a
third person is permitted to become a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons, either by joining the
plaintifff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by
uniting with the defendant in resistin the claims of the
plaintifff, or by demanding any thing a versely to both the
plaintiﬂ:' and the defendant, and is made by complaint, set
tin forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests,
ﬁle by leave of the court, and served upon the parties to
the action or proceeding who have not appeared and upon
the attorne s of the parties who have appeared, who may
answer or emur to it as if it were an original complaint.
SEC. 4112. When two or more persons, associated in
any business, transact such business under a common
name, whether it comprises the names of such persons or
not, the associates may be sued by such common name, the
summons in such cases being served on one or more of the
associates; and the judgment in the action shall bind the
joint l‘O erty of all the associates, in the same manner as
if all Ea been named defendants and had been sued upon
their joint liability.
SEC. 4118. The court may determine any controversy
between arties before it when it can be done without prej
udice to t e rights of others, or by saving their rights: but
when a complete determination of the controversy cannot
be had without the resence of other (parties, the court must
then order them to e brought in, an thereupon the party,
directed by the court, must cause_to be served a copy of t-he
summons in the action, and the order aforesaid. in like man
ner as provided for the service of the summons. u on each
of the parties ordered to be brought in, who shall av_e ten
pays or such time as the court may order, after service in
which to a pear and plead; and in case such party fail to
adpear an plead within the time aforesaid, the court may
cause his default to be entered and proceed as in other cases
of default, or make such other order as the condition of the
action and justice shall require, and when, in an action for
the recovery of real or personal property, a person not a par
ty to the action, but having an interest in the subject thereof,
makes application“to the court to be made a party, it may
order him to be brought in by the proper amendment.
SECTION 4120. Actions for the following causes must be
tried in the county in which the subject of the action or
some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the
court to change the place of trial, as provided in this code:
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination in any form of
such right or interest and for injuries to real property;
2. For the partition of real property;
For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
Where the real property is situated partly in one count and
partly in another, the plaintifff may select either 0 the
counties, and the county so selected is the proper county for
the trial of such action. '
SEc. 4121. Actions for the following causes must be
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose, subject to the like power of the court to change the
place of trial:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture im sed
by statute, exce t, that when it is imposed for an o ense
committed on a ake, river or other stream of water, situ
ated in two or more counties, the action may be brought in
any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and
opposite to the place where the offense was committed,
2. Against a public oiﬁcer, or person specially appointed
to execute his duties, for any act done by him in virtue of
his ofﬁce; or against a person who, by his command or in
his aid, does anything touching the duties of such ofﬁcer.
SEC. 4122. An action against a county may be com
menced and tried in such county, unless such action is
brought by acounty, in which case it may be commenced
and tried in any county, not a party thereto.
SEC. 4123. In all other cases the action must be tried
in the county in which the defendants, or some of them re
side at the commencement of the action;or, if none of the
defendants reside in the Territory, or, if residing in this
Territory, the county in which the reside is unknown to
the plaintifff, the same may be trie in any county which
the laintiﬂ’ may designate in his O0II1rF18.iI1t; and if the de
fen ant is about to depart from the erritory, such action
may be tried in ang county where either of the parties re
side or service is ha ; subject, however, to the power of the
court to change the place of trial as provided in this Code.
SEC. 4124. If the county in which the action is com
menced is not the roper county for the trial thereof, the
action may, notwi’ standing, be tried therein, unless the
defendant, at the time he appears and answers or demurs,
ﬁles an aﬁidavit of merits, and demands, in writing, that
the trial be had in the proper county.
SEC. 4125. The court may, on motion, change the place
of trial in the following cases:
1. When the county designated in the complaint is not
the pr%per county;
2. hen there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein;
3. VVhen the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change;
4. When from any cause the judge is disqualiﬁed from
acting.
SEC. 4126. If an action or roceeding is commenced or
pending in a court, and the J u ge or Justice thereof is dis
qualiﬁed from acting as such, or if for any cause the court
orders the place of trial to be changed, it must be trans
ferred for trial to a court the parties may agree upon by
stipulation in writing, or made in open court and entered in
the minutes; or, if the do not so agree, then to the nearest
court where the like objection or cause for making the or
der does not exist, as follows:
1. If in the District Court, to another District Court;
2. If in the Probate Court, to the District Court of the
same county;
If in a J ustice’s Court, to another Justice’s Court in
the same county.
SEC. 4127. VVhen an order is made transferring an
action or proceeding for trial, the Clerk of the Court, or
Justice of the Peace, must transmit the pleadings and pa
pers therein to the Clerk or Justice of the Court to which it
is transferred. The costs and fees thereof, and of ﬁling the
papers anew, must be paid by the party at whose instance
the order was made. The court to which an action or pro
ceeding is transferred has and exercises over the same the
like jurisdiction as if it had been originally commenced
therein.
SEC. 4128. VVhen an action or proceeding affecting the title to or ossession of real estate has been brought in or
transferre to any court of a county other than the count
in which the real estate, or some portion of it, is situate ,
the Clerk of such Court must, after ﬁnal judgment therein,
certify, under his seal of oﬂice, and transmit to the corres
onding court of the county in which the real estate aifected
y the action is situated, a copy of the judgment. The
C erk receiving such copy must ﬁle, docket, and record the
judgment in the records of the court, brieﬂy designating it
as a judgment transferred from court, (naming the
proper court.) ~
SECTION 4138. Civil actions in the courts of this Terri
tory are commenced by ﬁling a complaint.
SEC. 4139. The Clerk must indorse on the complaint the
day, month and ear that it is ﬁled, and at any time within
one year therea ter, the plaintifff may have a summons is
sued; and if the action be brought against two or more de
fendants who reside in different counties, may have a sum
mons issued for each of such counties. But at any time
within the year after the complaint is ﬁled, the defendant
may, in writing, or by appearing and answering or demur
ring, waive the issuing of summons; or, if the action be
brought u on a joint contract of two or more defendants,
and one o them has appeared within the year, the other or
others may be served or appear after the year, at any time
before trial.
SEC. 4140. The summons must be directed to the de
fendaiit, signed by the Clerk, and issued under the seal of
the court and must contain:
1. The names of the parties to the action, the court in
yvhéiahdit is brought, and the county in which the complaint
is e ;
t 2. A statement of the nature of the action in general
erms;
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer the
complaint within ten days, if the summons is served within
the county in which the action is brou ht; within twent
days if served out of the county, but in t e district in whic
tfile action is brought, and within forty days if served_else
w ere
4. In an action arising on contract, for the recover of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defen ant
so a pears and answers, the plaintifff will take judgment
for t e sum demanded in the complaint [statin it];
5. In other actions, a notice that unless efendant so
a pears and answers, the plaintifff will apply to the court for
t e relief demanded in the complaint. The name of the
plaintifffs attorne must be indorsed on the summons.
SEC. 4141. I the summons is returned without being
served on any or all the defendants, the clerk, upon the de
mand of the plaintifff, ma issue an alias summons in the
same form as the origina .
SEC. 4142. In an action affecting the title or the right
of possession of real proplerty, the plaintifff at the time of
ﬁling the com laint, and t e efendant at the time of ﬁling
his answer, w en affirmative relief is claimed in such an
swer, or at any time afterwards, may ﬁle for record with
the recorder of the county in which the property or some
part thereof is situated, a notice of the pendenc ' of the ac
tion, containing the names of the parties, the 0 ject of the
action or defense, and a description of the roperty in that
county affected thereby. From the time o ﬁlm such no
tice for record only shall a purchaser or incum rancer of
the property affected thereby be deemed to have construc
tive notice of the pendency of the action, and only ‘of its
pendenc against parties designated by their real names.
SEC. 143. The summons may be served by the Sheriﬁ
of the county where the defendant is found, or by any
other person over the age of eighteen, not a part ' to the ac
tion. A copy of the complaint must be serve with the
summons, unless two or more defendants are residents of
the same county, in which case a copy of the com laint
need only be served u on one of such defendants. hen
the summons is serve by the Sheriff, it must be returned
with his certiﬁcate of its service, and of the service of an
copy of the complaint when such cop is served, to the o ﬁce
of the clerk from which it issue . When it is served
by any other person, it must be returned to the same place,
with an aﬁidavit of such person of its service, and of the
service of a copy of the complaint, when such copy is served.
SEC. 4144. The summons must be served by delivering
a copy thereof, as follows:
1. If the suit is against a corporation formed under the
laws of this Territory to the president or other head of the
corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof;
2. If the suitis against a foreign corporation, or a non
resident joint stock compan or association, doing business
and having a. managing or usiness agent, cashier or secre
tary within this Territory to such agent, cashier, or secre
tary, or to any station, ticket or other agent of such cor
poration transacting business thereof in the county where
the action is commenced, and if there is no such agent in
said county, then service may be l1ad upon any such agent
in any other county;
3. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years re
siding within this Territory; to such minor, personally, and
also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none
within this Territory, then to any person having the care or
control of such minor, or with W om he resides or in whose
service he is employed;
4. If a ainst a erson residing within this Territory who has
been ju icially eclared to be of unsound mind, or incapable
of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has
been appointed; to such person and also to his guardian;
5. If against a county, city or town; to the chairman of the
Board of Commissioners, president of the council, or trustees
or other head of the legislative department thereof;
6. In all other cases to the defendant personally.
SEC. 4145. When the person on whom the service is to.
. .
be made resides out of the Territorv, or has departed from
the Territory, or cannot, after due diligence, be found with
in the Territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of
summons, or 1S a foreign corporation having no managing
or business agent, cashier, or secretary within the Territory,
and the fact a pears by afﬁdavit to the satisfaction of the
court or a ju e thereof, or a Probate Judge, and it also
appears by suc affidavit, or ‘by the _veriﬁed complaint on
ﬁ e that a cause of action exists a ainst the defendant in
respect to whom the service is to e made, or that he is a
necess or proper party to the action, such court or Judge
may ma e an order that the service be made by the pub i
cation of the summons.
SEC. 4146. The order must direct the publication to be
made in a newspaper to be designated as most likely to
give notice to the person to be served, and for such length
of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a week;
but publication a ainst a defendant residing out of the Ter
ritory or absent t erefrom, must not be less than one month.
In case of ublication, where the residence of a non-resident
or absent efendant is known, the court or judge must di
rect a co y of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposite in_ the postoﬂice, directed to the person to be
served at his lace of residence. When publication 1S or
dered, persona service of a copy of the summons and com
plaint out of the Territory, is equivalent to publication and
eposit in the postofﬁce; and in either case the service of
the summons is complete at the expiration of the time pre
scribed by the order or ublication.
SEC. 4147. When t e action is against two or more de
fendants jointly or severally liable on a contract and the
summons is served on one or more but not on all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed against the defendants served in
the same manner as if the were the only defendants.
SEC. 4148. Proof of t e service of summons and com
plaint must be as follows:
1. If served by the Sheriff, his certiﬁcate thereof;
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the aﬂidavit of the printer, or
his foreman or principal clerk, showing the same; and an
aﬁidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post
oﬂice the same haﬁrpeen depfosilted ctr, d I f
4. e written a ission o t e e en ant. n case o
service otherwise than by publication, the certiﬁcate or af
ﬁdavit must state the time and place of service.
SEC. 4149. From the time of the service of the sum
mons and of a copy of a complaint in a civil action where
service of a copy of the complaint is required, or of the com
pletion of the publication, when service by publication is
ordered, the court is deemed to have acquired Jurisdiction of
the parties and to have control of all the subseguent proceed
ings. The voluntary appearance of a defen ant is equiva
lent to personal service of the summons and copy of the
complaint _upon him.
SECTION 4160. The pleadings are the formal allega
tions by the parties of their respective claims and defenses,
for the jud ent of the court.
SEC. 41 1. The forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
the rules b which the sufﬁciency of the pleadings is to be
determine , are those rescribed in this code.
SEC. 4162. The on y pleadings allowed on the part of
the plaintifff are:
1. The complaint;
2. The demurrer to the answer;
And on the part of the defendant:
1. The demurrer to the complaint;
2. The answer.
Blwrxox
4167. Complaint, ﬁrst pleading.
4168. Complaint, what to contain.
CHAPTER lI.
THE COMPLAINT.
Saurrorr
4169. What causes of notion may be joined.
SECTION 4167. The ﬁrst pleading on the part of the
plaintifff is the complaint.
SEC. 4168. The complaint must contain:
1. The title of the action, the name of the court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action;
2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of ac
tion, in ordinar and concise language;
3. A demand’ of the relief which the plaintifff claims; if
the recovery of money or damages be demanded, the amount
thereof must be stated.
SEC. 4169. The plaintifff may unite several causes of ac
tion in the same complaint, where they all arise out of:
1. Contracts, express or implied;
2. Claims to recover spleciﬁc real
out damages for the with olding thereo , or for waste com
mitted thereon, and the rents and proﬁts of the same;
3. Claims to recover speciﬁc gersonal property, with or
without damages for the withhol ing thereof;
4. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by
operation of law;
5. Injuries to character;
6. Injuries to person; r
7. Injuries to property.
property, with or with
The causes of action so united must all belong to one only
of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action
and not require different places of trial, and must be sepa
rately stated- but an action for malicious arrest and prose
cution, or either of them, may be united with an action for
either an injury to the character or to the person.
SECTION
CHAPTER III.
DEMURRER T0 THE COMPLAINT.
4174. When defendant may demur.
BICTION
4176. What proceedings are to be had
4175. Demurrer must speciiy, etc. May when complaint is amended.
be taken wpart. May answer and 4177. Objection not appearing on com
clemur at the same time. piaint, may be taken by answer.
4178. Objections, when deemed waived.
SECTION 41 74. The defendant may demur to the complaint
within the time required in the summons to answer, when
it appears on the face thereof, either:
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action; or,
2. That the plaintiﬂf has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the
same arties for the same cause; or,
4. hat there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plain
tiff or defendant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,
6. That the com laint does not state facts sufﬁcient to
constitute a cause o action; or,
7. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible or un
certain.
SEC. 4175. The demurrer must distinctly specify the
grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint
are taken. Unless it do so it may be disregarded. It may
be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of
action stated therein, or the defendant may demur and an
swer at the same time.
SEC. 4176. If the complaint is amended, a copy of the
amendments must be ﬁled, or the court may, in its discretion,
require the complaint, as amended, to be ﬁled; and a copy
of the amendments or amended complaint, must be served
upon the defendants affected thereb . The defendant must
answer the amendment or the comp aint as amended, with
in ten days after service thereof, or such other time as the
court may direct, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases.
SEC. 4177. When any of the matters enumerated in section 4174 do not appear u on the face of the complaint,
the objection may be taken y answer.
SEC. 4178. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant must be deemed to have waived
the same exce ting only the objection to the jurisdiction of
the court, an the objection that the complaint does not
state facts suﬂicient to constitute a cause of action.
SECTION 4183. The answer of the defendant shall con
tain:
1. A general or speciﬁc denial of the material allegations
of the complaint controverted by the defendant;
2. A statement of any new matter constitutingadefense
or counterclaim. If the complaint be veriﬁed, the denial
of each allegation controverted must be speciﬁc, and be
made positively, or accordin to the information and belief
of the defendant. If the de endant has no information or
belief upon the subject sufﬁcient to enable him to answer
an allegation of the complaint, he may so state in his an
swer, and glace his denial on that ground. If the complaint
be not veri ed a eneral denial is sufficient, but only puts in
issue the materia allegations of the complaint.
SEC. 4184. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and
against a plaintifff, between whom a several judgment
mi ht be had in the action, and arising out of one of the
fol owing causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set
forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintifffs
claim, or connected with the subject of the action;
2. In an action arising upon contract; any other cause of
action arising also upon contract and existing at the com
mencement of the action.
SEC. 4185. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the ﬁrst subdivision of the
last section, neither he nor his assignee can afterwards
maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore.
SEC. 4186. When cross demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that, if one had brought
an action against the other, a counterclaim could have been
set up, the two demands shall be deemed compensated, so
far as they equal each other, and neither can be de rived of
the beneﬁt thereof by the assignment or death of t e other.
SEC. 4187. The defendant may set forth by answer as
many defenses and counterclaims as he may have. They
must be separately stated, and the several defenses must re
fer to the causes of action which they are intended to an
swer, in a manner by which the may be intelligibly distin
ished. The defendant may a so answer one or more of
t e several causes of action stated in the complaint and de
mur to the residue.
SEC. 4188. \Vhenever the defendant seeks afﬁrmativc
relief against any party, relating to or depending upon the
contract or transaction upon which the action is brought, or
affecting the plroperty to which the action relates, he may,
in addition to is answer, ﬁle at the same time, or by per
mission of the court subsequently, a cross-complaint. The
cross-complaint must be served upon the parties affected
thereby, and such parties may demur or answer thereto as
to the original complaint.
CHAPTER V.
DEMURRER TO THE Answnn.
Sncﬂou
4193. When plaintifff may demur to an
swer.
Sscnon
419-1. Grounds of demurrer.
SECTION 4193. The plaintifff may, within the same
len h of time after service of the answer as the defendant
is a lowed to answer after service of summons, demur to
the answer of the defendant, or to one or more of the sev
eral defenses or counterclaims set u in the answer.
SEC. 4194. The demurrer may e taken upon one or
more of the following grounds:
1. That several causes of counterclaim have been im
properly joined;
2. T at the answer does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a defense or counterclaim;
3. That the answer is ambiguous, unintelligible or un
certain.
CHAPTER VI.
VERIFICATION or PLEADINGS.
BEGHON 1 SECTION
4199. Veriﬁcation of pleadings. 4201. When defense is founded on written
4200. Cop of written instrument cori- instrument set out in answer, its
t ned in complaint admitted, un- execution admitted, unless denied
less answer is veriﬁed. by plaintiﬂ‘ under oath.
4202. Exceptions to rules, prescribed by
I two preceding sections.
SECTION 4199. Every pleading must be subscribed by
the party or his attorney; and when the complaint is veri
ﬁed, or when the Territory, or any oﬂicer of the Territory,
in his official ca acity, is plaintifff, the answer must be veri
ﬁed unless an a mission of the truth of the complaint might
subject the party to a criminal rosecution, or unless an
officer of the Territory, in his o cial capacity, is defend
ant. In all cases of a veriﬁcation of a pleading, the affida
vit of the party must state that the same is true of his own
knowled e, except as to the matters which are therein
stated to e on his information or belief, and as to those
matters, that he believes it to be true; and where a pleading
is veriﬁed, it must be by the aﬂidavit of a party, unless the
parties are absent from the county where the attorney re
sides, or from some cause unable to verify it, or the facts
are within the knowled e of his attorney, or other erson
verifying the same. en the pleading is veriﬁed y the
attorney, or any other person except one of the parties, he
must set forth in the affidavit the reasons why it is not
made by one of the parties. When acorporation is apart-y,
the veriﬁcation may be made by any ofﬁcer thereof.
SEC. 4200. When an action is brought upon a written
instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such in
strument, or a copy is annexed thereto. the genuineness and
due execution of such instrument are deemed admitted, un
less the answer denying the same be veriﬁed.
SEC. 4201. When the defense to an action is founded
on written instrument, and aco ythereofis containedin the
answer, or is annexed thereto, t e genuineness and due ex
ecution of such instrument are deemed admitted, unless the
plaintifff ﬁle with the Clerk, withi_n ten days after receivin
a copy of the answer, an aﬁidavit denying the same, an
serve a copy thereof on the defendant.
SEC. 4202. But the execution of the instruments men
tioned in the two preceding sections, is not deemed admitted
by a failure to deny the same under oath, if the party de
siring to controvert the same, is, upon demand, refused an
inspection of the original. Such demand must be in writ
ing, served by copy, upon the adverse party or his attor
ney, and ﬁled with the papers in the case.
CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL RULES OF‘ PLEADING.
SECTION Sncrron
4207. Pleadings to be liberally construed. 4215. Libel and slander, how stated in
4208. Sham and irrelevant answers, etc., complaint. Not necessary to al
may be stricken out. lege or prove special damages.
4209. How to state an account in plead- -1216. Answer in such oases.
' ings. 4217. Allegations not denied ; when to be
4210. Deseri tion oi real property in a deemed true; when to be deemed
ple in . controverted.
4211. Judgmen s, how pleaded. 4218. A material allegation deﬁned.
4212. Conditions precedent, how to be 4219. Supplemental complaint and answer.
pleaded. 4220. Pleadings subsequent to complaint.
4213. Statute 01 limitations. how leaded. must e ﬁled and served.
4214. Private statutes, how ple ed.
SECTION 4207. In the construction of a pleading for the
urpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
iberally construed with a. view to substantial justice be
tween the arties.
SEC. 42 8. Sham and irrelevant answers, and irrele
vant and redundant matter inserted in a pleading, may be
stricken out, upon such terms as the court may in its dis
cretion, im ose.
SEC. 42 9. It is not necessary for a party to set forth in
pleading the items of an account therein alle ed, but he
must deliver to the adverse party within ten ays after a
demand thereof in writing, a copy of the account, or be pre
cluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or a Judge
thereof, may'order a further account when the one deliv
ered is too general or is defective in any particular.
SEC. 4210. In an action for the recovery of real proper
ty, it must be described in the complaint with such certain
ty as to enable an oﬂicer, upon execution, to identify it.
SEC. 421 1. In pleadin a judgment or other determina
tion of a court, ofﬁcer or oard, it is not necessary to state
the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or de
termination may be stated to have been duly given or made.
If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must
establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.
SEC. 4212. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the facts
showing such erformance, but it may be stated generally
that the party uly performed all the conditions on his part,
and if such allegation be controverted, the partg pleading
must establish on the trial the facts showing suc perform
ance.
SEC. 4213. In pleading the statute of limitations it is
not necessary to state the facts showing the defense, but it
may be stated generally that the cause of action is barred
by the provisions of section (giving the number of the section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied
upon) of the code of civil procedure; and if such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading must establish on the
trial the facts showing that the cause of action is so barred.
SEC. 4214. In pleading a. private statute or a right de
rived therefrom, it is suﬂicient to refer to such statute by
its title and the day of its passage.
SEC. 4215. In an action for libel or slander, it is not
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for
the pur ose of showing the application to the plaintiﬁ of
the de amatory matter out of which the cause of action
arose; but it is sufficient to state, generally, that the same
was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if
such allegation be controverted, the laintiif must estab
lish on the trial that it was so publishe or spoken.
SEC. 4216. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may in his answer, allege both the truth of
the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating cir
cumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether
he prove the justiﬁcation or not, he may give in evidence
the mitigating circumstances.
SEC. 4217. Every material allegation of the complaint
not controverted by the answer, must, for the purposes of
the action, be taken as true; the statement of any new mat
ter in the answer, in avoidance or constitutin a defense or
counterclaim, must, on the trial, be deeme controverted
by the o osite party.
SEC. £218. A material allegation in a pleading is one
essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insuﬂicient.
SEC. 4219. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively
may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental com
plaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case occur
in after the former com laint or answer.
EC. 4220. All plea ings subsequent to the complaint
must be ﬁled with the Clerk, and copies thereof served upon
the adverse party_. or his attorney.
CHAPTER VIII.
VARIANCE, MISTAKES AND AMENDMENTS.
QICTION
4225. Material variance, how provided for. 4229. Amendments by the court, enlarg
SECTION
4226. Immaterial variance, how provided ing time to plead and relieving
ior. from judgments, etc.
4227. What notto be deemed a variance. 4230. Suing s. party by a ﬁctitious name,
4225. Amendments oi course, and eilect when allowed
oi’ demurrer. 4231. No error or deiect to be regarded
unless it aﬁects substantial rights.
SECTION 4225. No variance between the alle ation in a
pleading and the proof is to be deemed materia , unless _it
as actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in
maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. When
ever it appears that the party has been so misled, the court
may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as
may be just.
SEC. 4226. Where the variance is not material, as pro
vided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be
found according to the evidence, or may order an immedi
ate amendment, without costs.
SEC. 4227. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense to which the proof is directed, is improved, not
in some garticular or particulars only, but in its general
scope an meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of vari
ance, within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
SEC. 4228. Any pleading may be amended once by the
party of course, and without costs, at any time before an
swer or demurrer ﬁled, or after demurrer and before the
trial of the issue of law thereon, by ﬁling the same as
amended, and serving a copy on the adverse party who
may} have ten days thereafter in which to answer or emur
to t e amended pleading. A demurrer is not waived by ﬁl
ing an answer at the same time; and when the demurrer to
complaint is overruled and there is no answer ﬁled, the
court may, upon such terms as may be just, allow an an
swer to be ﬁled. If a demurrer to the answer be overruled,
the facts alleged in the answer must be considered as de
nied, to the extent mentioned in section 4217.
SEC. 4229. ' The court may, in furtherance of justice and
on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect, and may u n like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. T e court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse
party, allow upon such terms as may be just, an amend
ment to any leading or proceeding in other particulars and
may, upon 1i e terms, allow an answer to be made after the
time limited by this code, and also relieve a party, or his le
gal re resentative from a judgment, order, or other proceed
ing ta en against him through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect; and whenever, for any rea
son satisfactory to the court or the judge thereof, the party
aggrieved has failed to a ply for the relief sought during
the term at which such ju gment, order, or proceeding com
plained of was taken, the court, or the judge thereof in vaca
tion ma grant the relief upon application made within a.
reasona le time, not exceeding six months after the adjourn
ment of the term. When from any cause the summons in
an action has not been personally served on the defendant,
the court may allow, on such terms as may be just, such de
fendant, or his legal representative at any time within one
year after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to
answer to the merits of the original action. When in an ac
tion to recover the ossession of personal property, the per
son making any a davit did not truly state the value of
the property and the ofﬁcer taking the roperty or the sure
ties on any bond or undertaking, is sue for taking the same,
the ofﬁcer or sureties may, in their answer, set up the true
value of the property, and that the person in whose behalf
said afﬁdavit was made, was entitled to the possession of
the same when said affidavit was made or that the value in
the affidavit stated was inserted by mistake, the court shall
disregard the value as stated in the aﬂidavit and give judg
ment accordin to the right of possession of said property at
the time the a davit was made.
SEC. 4230. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name
of a defendant, he must state that fact in the com laint,
and such defendant may be designated in any plea ing or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discov
ered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accord
ingly.
EC. 4231. The court must, 1n every stage of an action,*
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceed
ings which does not affect the substantial ri hts of the par
ties and no judgment shall be reserved or a ected by reason
of such error or defect.
SECTION 4240. No person can be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribed in this code.
Sac. 4241. The defendant may be arrested as hereinaf' ' ' '
ter prescribed, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on
a cause of action arising upon a contract express or implied
where the defendant is about to depart from the Territory
with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is
for willful injury to person, to character, or to property,
knowing the property to belong to another;
2. In an action for a ﬁne or penalty, or on a promise to
marry, or for money or roperty embezzled, or fraudulently
misapplied, or converted) to his own use, by a public oﬁicer
or an oﬂicer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,
agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as such or
by any other person in a ﬁduciary capacity; or for miscon
duct or neglect in ofﬁce or in a professional employment or
for a willful violation of duty;
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal rop
erty unjustly detained when the property, or any part t ere
of, has been concealed, removed, or dis§osed of to prevent
its being found or taken by the Sheri ;
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in con
tracting the debt or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought; or in concealing or disposing of the prop
erty for the taking, detention, or conversion of which the
action is brought;
5. ‘When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
prggerty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
or
itors.
459
SEC. 4242. An order for the arrest of the defendant
must be obtained from a Jud e of the court in which the ac
tion is brou' ht or from a Pro ate Judge.
SEC. 424 . The order may be made whenever it appears
to the Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other
person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section 4241. The affida
vit must be either positive or upon information and belief;
and when u on information and belief, it must state the
facts upon w ich the information and belief are founded.
If an order of arrest be made, the aﬂidavit must be ﬁled with
the Clerk of the Court.
SEC. 4244. Before making the order, the Jud e must
require a written undertaking on the art of the p aintiff,
with sureties in an amount to be ﬁxed y the Judge, which
must be at least ﬁve hundred dollars, to the effect that the
laintiff will ay all costs which may be adjud ed to the
efendant, ans all damages which he may sustain y reason
of the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or without suﬂicient
cause, not exceeding the sum s eciﬁed in the undertak
iéig. The undertaking must be gled with the Clerk of the
ourt. SEC. 4245. The order may be made at the time of the
issuing of the summons, or at any time afterwards before
jud ent. It must require the Sheriff of the county where
the efendant may be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold
him to bail in a speciﬁed sum and to return the order at a
time therein mentioned, to the Clerk of the Court in which
the action is pending.
SEC. 4246. The order of arrest, with a copy of the affi
davit upon which it is made, must be delivered to the Sheriff,
who upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a
copy o the aﬂidavit, and also, if desired, a copy of the order
of arrest.
SEC. 4247. The Sheriff must execute the order by ar
resting the defendant and keeping him in custody until dis
charged by law.
SEC. 4248. The defendant, at any time before execution,
must be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving
bail or depositing the amount mentioned in the order of ar
rest.
SEC. 4249. The defendant may give bail by causing a
written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentioned in the order of arrest that the defendant will at
all times render himself amenable to the process of the
court, during the pendenc of the action, and to such as
ma be issued to enforce t e judgment therein, or that the
wil pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment whic
may be recovered in the action.
SEC. 4250. At an Y time before jud ment or within ten
days thereafter, the ail may surrenfer the defendant in
their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff
of the count where he was arrested.
SEC. 425 . For the purpose of surrendering the defend
ant, the bail, at any time or place before they are ﬁnally
charged, may themselves arrest, or, by a written authority
indorsed on a certiﬁed copy of the undertaking, may em
ower the Sheriff to do so. U on the arrest of defendant
y the Sheriff, or upon his de ivery to the Sheriff by the
bail, or upon his own surrender the bail are exonerated, if
such arrest, delivery, or surrender take place before the ex
iration of ten days after judgment; but if such arrest, de
ivery, or surrender be not made within ten days after judg
ment, the bail are ﬁnally char ed on their undertaking, and
bound to pay the amount of t e judgment within ten days
thereafter.
SEC. 4252. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judg
ment within ten days after t ey are ﬁnally charged, an ac
tion may be commenced against such bail for the amount of
the original judgment.
SEC. 4253. he bail are exonerated by the death of the
defendant or his imprisonment in the Territorial prison, or
by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the rocess.
SEC. 4254. ithin the time limited for that pur ose,
the Sheriff must ﬁle the order of arrest in the office o the
Clerk of the Court in which the_action is pending, with his
return indorsed thereon; together with a copy of the under
taking of the bail. The original undertakin he must retain
in his possession until ﬁled, as herein provi ed. The lain
tiff within ten days thereafter, may serve u on the S eriff
a notice that he does not acce t the bail, or e is deemed to
have] accepted them, and the heriff is exonerated from lia
ility. If no notice be served within ten days, the original
undertakin must be ﬁled with the Clerk of the Court.
SEC. 42 5. Within ﬁve days after the receipt of notice,
the Sheriff or defendant may give the plaintifff or his attor
ney, notice of the justiﬁcationof the same, or other bail
(specifyin the places of residence and occupation of the
latter), be ore the Judge of a Court or Probate Jud e, at a
speciﬁed time and place; the time to be not less t an ﬁve
nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of
parties. In case other bail be given there must be a new
undertaking.
SEC. 4256. The qualiﬁcations of bail are as follows:
1. Each of them must be resident and householder or
freeholder within the Territory;
2. Each must be worth the amount speciﬁed in the order
of arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced, as
provided in this chapter, over and above all his liabilities,
exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge
on justiﬁcation, may allow more than two sureties to justi
f severally in amounts less than that expressed in the or
er, if the whole justiﬁcation be equivalent to that of two
sufficient bail.
SEC. 4257. For the purpose of justiﬁcation each of the
bail must attend before the Judge at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath on
the part of the plaintifff touching his sufﬁciency, in such
manner as the Judge in his discretion, may think pro er.
The examination must be reduced to writing and subscri ed
by the bail, if re<puired by the plaintifff.
SEC. 4258. I the Judge ﬁnd the bail sufficient, he must
annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse his al
lowance thereon, and cause them to be ﬁled, and the Sheriff
is thereupon exonerated from liability.
SEC. 4259. The defendant may at the time of his arrest,
instead of giving bail, de osit with the Sheriﬁ the amount
mentioned in the order. n case the amount of the bail be
reduced, as provided in this chapter, the defendant may de
posit such amount instead of giving bail. In either case
the Sheriﬂ‘ must give the defen ant a certiﬁcateof the de
posit made, and the defendant must be discharged from
custody.
SEC. 4260. The Sheriff must, immediately after the de
posit, pa the same into court and take from the Clerk re
ceiving t e same, two certiﬁcates of such payment, the one
of which he shall deliver to the plaintifffs attorney and the
other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment, the same proceedin s may be had on the ofﬁcial
ond of the Sheriff, to collect t e sum deposited as in other
cases of delinquency.
SEC. 4261. If mone is de osited, as provided in the
two last sections, -bai may e given and may justify
u on notice, at any time before judgment; and on the ﬁling
o the undertaking and justiﬁcation with the clerk, the
money deposited must be refunded to the defendant.
SEC. 4262. Where money has been deposited, if it re
mains on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment
in favor of the plaintifff, the Clerk must, imder the direction
of the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof; and af
ter satisfying t e judgment, refund the surplus, if an , to
the defendant. If the judgment is in favor of the de end
ant, the Clerk must, under like direction of the Court, re
flil_I1((11 to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unap
p ie .
SEC. 4263. If, after bein arrested, the defendant es
cape or is rescued, the Sheri is liable as bail; but he may
discharge himself from such liability by the giving bail at
an time before judgment.
EC. 4264. If a judgment is recovered against the Sher
iﬂ:' upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon is re
turned unsatisﬁed in whole or in art, the same proceedings
may be had on his oﬂicial bond‘: for the recovery of the
whole or an deﬁciency, as in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 426%. A defendant arrested may, at any time be
fore the trial of the action, or if there be no trial, before the
entry of judgment, apply to the Judge of the courtin which
the action is pendin , or to the court, upon reasonable no
tice, to vacate the or er of arrest or to reduce the amount
of bail. If the a plication be made upon aﬂidavits on the
part of the defend)ant, but not otherwise, the tplaintifff may
oppose the same b affidavits, or other proo s, in addition
to those on which t e order of arrest was made.
SEC. 4266. If, upon a plication, it appears that there
was not suﬂicient cause or the arrest, the order must be
vacated; or if it a pears that the bail was ﬁxed too high,
the amount must be reduced.
SECTION 4271. The plaintiff in an action to recover the
possession of personal propert may, at the time of issuing
the summons, or at any time efore answer. claim the de
livery of such pro erty to him as provided in this cha ter.
SEC. 4272. here a delive is claimed, an a davit
must be made by the plaintifff, or y some one in his behalf,
setting forth:
1. hat the plaintifff is the owner of the pro erty claimed
£%a.I’l3lC%1l8.1‘ly describing it), or is entitled to t e possession
ereo 2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the de
fendant; '
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information and belief;
4. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
ﬁne, pursuant to a statute; or seized, under an execution or
an attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or, if so
seized, that it is y statute exempt from such seizure;
5. The actual value of the property.
SEC. 4273. The plaintifff or his attorne may, thereupon,
by an indorsement in writing upon the a davit, require the
S eriff of the county where the property claimed may be,
to take the same from the defendant.
SEC. 4274. U on a receipt of the aiﬁdavit and notice,
with a written un ertaking, executed by two or more sulﬁ
cient sureties, approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that they
are bound to the defendant in double the value of the prop
erty as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the ac
tion, for the return of the property to the defendant, if re
turn thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may from any cause be recovered against the
plaintifff, the Sheriff must forthwith take the property de
scribed in the aﬂidavit, if it be in the possession of the de
fendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He must,
without delay serve on the defendant a copy of the afﬁda
vit, notice and undertaking, by delivering t e same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his a ent from whose
possession the property is taken; or, if neit er can be found,
y leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with.
some person of suitable a e and discretion, or, if neither
have any known place o abode, by putting them in the
nearest ost office, directed to the defendant.
SEC. 275. The defendant may, within two days after
the service of a copty of the aﬂidavit and undertaking, ive
notice to the Sheri that he excepts to the sufﬁciency o the
463
sureties. If he fails to do so he is deemed to have waived
all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties must justify on notice in like manner as u on bail
on arrest;and the Sheriff is responsible for the su ciency
of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived or
until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot rec aim the property as rovided in the next section.
SEC. 4276. At any time be ore the delivery of the prop
erty to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except
to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof.
upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed
by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect t at they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the
aﬂidavit of the laintiff, for the delivery thereof to the
plaintifff, if such elivery be adjudged, and for the payment
to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not
so required within ﬁve days after the taking and service of
notice to the defendant, it must be delivere to the plaintifff,
except as provided in section 4281.
SEC. 4277. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the
plaintifff of not less than two or more than ﬁve da s, must
justify before the Judge of the Court or Probate udge, in
the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon such
justiﬁcation the Sheriff must deliver the pro erty to the de
fendant. The Sheriff is responsible for t e defendants
sureties until they justify, or until the justiﬁcation is com
pleted or waived, and may retain the fproperty until that
time. If they, or others in their place, ail to justify at the
time and place appointed, he must deliver the property to
the plaintifff.
SEC. 4278. The qualiﬁcation of sureties must be such as
are prescribed by this code, in respect to bail upon an order
of arrest.
SEC. 4279. If the property, or any art thereof, be con
cealed in a building or enclosure, the S eriff must publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he must cause
the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call
to his aid the power of his count .
SEC. 4280. \Vhen the Sheriff’ has taken property, as in
this chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place,
and deliver to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his
fees for taking, an his necessary expenses forkeeping, the
same.
SEC. 4281. If the property taken be claimed b
other person than the defendant or his agent, and suc per
son make afﬁdavit of his title thereto, or right to the posses
sion thereof, stating the rounds of such tltle or right, and
serve the same upon the heriff, the Sheriff is not bound to
keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifff unless the
glamtiif, on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the
heriﬁ against such claim, by an undertaking by two suffi
cient sureties.
SEC. 4282. The Sheriff must ﬁle the notice, undertakin
and afﬁdavit, with his roceedings thereon, with the Cler
of the Court in which t e action 1s pending within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein.
any
SECTION 4287. An injunction is a writ or order requiring
a person to refrain from a particular act. It may be granted
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a Judge
thereof, and when made by a. Judge, it may be enforced as
the order of the court.
SEC. 4288. An injunction may be granted in the followin cases: I
1. hen it appears by the complaint that the plaintiﬁ is
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continu
ance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually;
2. When it appears by the complaint or afﬁdavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the liti
gation would produce waste, great or irreparable injury to
the plaintifff;
3. When it appears during the litigation that the defend
ant is doing, or t reatens, or is about to do, or is procuring
or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the lain
tiff’s rights, respectin the subject of the action, an ten
dency to render the ju ment ineffectual;
4. When it appears, y affidavit, that the defendant during
the pendency of the action, threatens, or_is about to re
move, or to dispose of his property with intent to defraud
the plaintifff, an injunction order may be granted to restrain
the removal or disposition;
5. An injunction may also be granted on the motion of
the defendant upon ﬁling a cross complaint, prayin for af
ﬁrmative relief upon any of the grounds mentione above
in this section, su ject to the same rules and lprovisions pro
vliimfied for the issuance of injunctions on beha f of the plain
t' ;
6. The District Courts or any Judge thereof sittin in
chambers, in addition to the powers already ossessed, s all
have power to issue writs of injunction fora rmative relief
having the force and effect of a writ of restitution, restoring any person or persons to the possession of any real prop
erty from the actual possession of which he or they may be
ousted by force, or violence, or fraud, or stealth, or any
combination thereof, or from which he or they are kept out
of possession by threats whenever such possession was tak
en from him or them by entry of the adverse party on Sun
day or a legal holiday, or in the night time, or while the
party in possession was temporarily absent therefrom. The
granting of such writ shall extend only to the ri ht of pos
session under the facts of the case, in respect tot e manner
so _ 465
in which the possession was obtained, leaving the parties to
their legal ri hts on all other questions the same as though
no such writ ad issued; Provided, That no such writ shall
1SS1i.6 exgiept (l11pOI1 I;0tll{I8 in writigg Ito thef advﬁrse partiy of
at east ve ays o t e time an p ace 0 ma ing app ‘ca
tion therefore.
Act Feb. 10, 1887, in effect J une 1, 1887.]
no. 4289. The injunction may be granted at the time
of issuin the summons, upon the complaint, and at any
aftgﬁwar s, before ](l11dt meigci-,dupoiti a_fﬁd?lvitst.hThe congpllaint
in e one case, an e a avi s in t e 0 er mus s iow
satisfactorily that suﬂicient grounds exist therefore. No in
junction can be granted on the complaint unless it is veri
ﬁed. When the application is upon notice or order to show
cause, a cop of the moving papers must be served with the
notice or or er; when granted without notice a copy of the
moving a ers must be served with the injunction.
SEC. 280. An injunction cannot be allowed after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an or
der to sh<()1w C3.1iS6l;b(1l1t in suclg class the defgngant may be
restraine unti t ie ecision o t e court or u ge grantin
or refusing the injunction. _ g
J Sdno. 429t 1. 0n grantiitig in iiiljungtiont, the court tor
u ge mus require, excep w en e erri -ory, a coun y,
or munici al cor oration, or a married woman in a suit
against hei? l1USb3.II)1d, is a party plaintifff, awritten under
taking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient sureties
to the effect that the plaintifff will ay to the party enjoined
such costs, damages and reasona le counse fees, not ex
ceeding an ‘amount to be speciﬁed, as such arty may incur
or sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court ﬁnally
decide that the laintiff was not entitled thereto. VVit-hin
ﬁve days after t e service of the injunction, the defendant
may except to the suﬂiciency of the sureties. If he fails to
%$hs0 he is deeimed tlq halve waéved all objections to them.
en excepte to, t e p ainti ‘s sureties, upon notice to
the defendant of not less than two or more than ﬁve days,
must justify before the Judge or a Probate Jud e. in the
same manner as upon bail on arrest, and upon ailure to
justif , or if others in their place fail to justify at the time
gndhp aclae appointed, the order granting an injunction shall
e sso ve .
SEC. 4292. If the court or Judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any of several defendants, should be
heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made
requiring cause to be shown at a speciﬁed time and place,
why the 1I1jllII1lCl31OI1 shouldbnot be grancflzed; and the defend
ant ma *, in t e meantime, e restraine .
SEC. 24293. An injunction to suspend the general and
ordinary business of a corporation cannot be ranted ex
cept by the court or Judge thereof; nor can it e granted
without due notice of the application therefore to the proper
officers or agent of the corporation, except when the people
of this Territory are a party to the proceeding.
SEC. 4294. VVhere a duty is imposed by statute upon a
territorial officer, or officers, an in unction to restrain him
or them, or a person employed by im or them, from the
performance of that duty, or to prevent the execution of the
statute, shall not be granted, except by the District Court,
sitting in the county in which the ofﬁcer or oﬂicers are lo
cated, or the duty is required to be performed; and upon no
tice of the application therefore to the oﬂ"icer, or officers, or
-other person to be restrained.
SEC. 4295. If an injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply to
the Judge who granted the injunction, or to the court in
which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the same.
The application may be made upon the com laint and the
aiﬁdavit on which the injunction was ante , orthe answer
or upon aiﬁdavit on the part of the de endant, with or with
out the answer. If the application be made upon aﬂidavits
on the part of the defendant, it must be upon reasonable
notice to the plaintifff, and in that case, but not otherwise,
the plaintifff may oppose the same by aiﬁdavits or other evi
dence, in addition to those on which the injunction was
granted.
SEC. 4296. If upon such application it satisfactorily
appear that there is not sufﬁcient ground for the injunction,
it must be dissolved; or if it satisfactorily appear that the
extent of the injunction is too great, it must be modiﬁed.
SEC. 4297. Upon the hearing of an application for an
injunction upon notice to the adverse party, or upon return
of an order to show cause why an injunction should not be
granted, or upon an application to dissolve or modify an in
junction granted without notice, where the injunction was
granted or is applied for wholly or in part upon aﬁidavits,
the party resisting the application or moving to dissolve the
iniiunction may by three days’ written notice require the
a. verse part to produce at the hearing for cross examina
tion before t e court or Judge, the afﬁants of the aﬂidavits
upon which he relies for the in'unction, or to resist the ap
p ication for its dissolution; an any party so requiring his
adverse part to produce his witnesses at such hearing must
himself pro uce for cross examination, the witnesses upon
whom he relies upon such hearing; and either arty may
have the same process, to secure the attendance 0 witnesses
at such hearing upon trial of issue of fact in the District
Court; and in such case, where the attendance of witnesses
shall have been so required, no affidavit shall be read or
considered by the court or Judge upon such hearing unless
the aﬂiant is so produced for cross examination, Provided,
That the court or Judge may, at the conclusion of the ex
amination of the witnesses produced bi the respective par
ties, for good cause shown, ad'ourn t e hearing to enable
either party to secure the atten ance of an absent aﬂiant, or
ma direct his examination to be taken in writing before
suc oﬂicer and at such time and place as the court or Judge
may designate. The examination of any witness produced
before the court or Judge must, upon re uest of either
party, be reduced to writing, subscribed y the aﬁiant,
certiﬁed by the Judge and ﬁled in the action, and with an
examination taken in compliance with the order of the
court or Judge, be made a part of the record upon appeal
in thg same manner as afﬁdavits are made a part of such
recor .
SECTION 4302. _The plaintifff, at the time of issuing the sum
mons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of
the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction of
any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant
give securiﬁy itol ay such judgment, as in this chapter pro
vided, in t e o owing cases:
1. In an action upon a 'udgment, or upon contract, ex
press or implied, for the irect payment of money, where
the contract is not secured by any mortgage or lien upon
real or personal property, or any pledge of_ personal_prop
erty; or, if origina_lly_ so secured, ‘such security has, without
any act of the plamtiﬁ’, or the person to whom the security
W38 glhegnla(:tl)(€l1ieu¥>a£i1eal.e{j?i;dgment or upon contract ex
ress or implied, against a defendant not residing in'this
erritor .
SEC. 803. The Clerk of the Court must issue the writ of
attachment, upon receiving an afﬁdavit by or on behalf of
plaintifff, settiii forth: _ _ _ _ _
1. That the efendant is indebted to the plaintifff (s ecify
ing the amount of suc_h indebtedness over and ab_ove a l legal
set-offs or counterclaimsgand whether upon a judgment or
t‘i§’°“ “ °°’“?"‘%‘i§22.15% 1322§T0€’?.¥.’.$*§.?§?i°i?§y;..a“§.T§}?.‘
e paymen 0 gage or lien upon real or personal prope1("ity,hor anyhp edge of
ersonal roperty, or, if originally secure , t at sue security
gas, witllbut any act of the plaintifff, cl>r the person to whom_
the security was iven, become value ess; or,
2. That the de endant is indebted to the plaintifff specify
ing the amount of such indebtedness over and a ve_ all
legal se_t(-‘off? ofr €l?(;1I11‘l'é6I‘I;:i(t3;l)5:‘l§I,nSz,i')n3(.1Dd that the defendant 1S a
non-resi en o 3. That the attachment is ’not sought, and the action is
not grosecuted to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor of
the efendant.
SEC. 4304. Before issuing the writ, the clerk must require a written undertaking on the art of the plaintifff, in a
sum not less than two hundred dol ars, and not exceeding
the amount claimed by the laintiff, with sufficient sureties,
to the effect that if the de endant recover judgment, or if
the attachment be wrongfull issued, the plaintifff will pay
all costs that may be awar ed to the defendant, and al
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment,
not exceeding the sum speciﬁed in the undertaking.
SEC. 430 . The writ must be directed to the heriff of
any county in which property of such defendant may be,
and must reqiuire him to attach and safely keep all the prop
erty of such efendant, within his county, not exempt from
execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy
the plaintifff’s demand, the amount of which must be stated
in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give
him security by the undertaking of at least two suﬂicient
sureties, in an amount sufﬁcient to satisfy such demand, be
sides costs, or in an amount equal to the value of the prop
erty which has been, or is about to be, attached; in which
case, to take such undertaking, several writs may be issued
at the same time to the Sheriffs of different counties; and
the plaintifff may have other writs of attachment as often as
he may re uire at any time before judgment.
SEC. 43 6. The rights or shares which the defendant
may have in the stock of an cor oration or company, toet er with the interest an ro t thereon and all debts
ue such defendant, and all ot er property in this Territory
of such defendant not exempt from execution, may be at
tached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the
judgment and execution.
SEC. 4307. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered, must execute the same without delay, and if the
iindertaking mentioned in section 4305 be not given, as folows:
1. Real property, standing upon the records of the coun
ty in the name of the defendant, must be attached, by ﬁling
with the Recorder of the county a copy of the writ, together
with a description of the pro erty attached, and a notice
that it is attached; and by eaving a similar copy of the
writ, description, and notice with an occupant of t e prop
erty, if there is one, if not, then by postin the same in a
conspicuous place on the property attache ;
2. Real pro erty or an interest therein, belongin to the
defendant, an held by any other person, or stan ing on
the records of the county in the name of any other person,
must be attached, by ﬁling with the Recorder of the county
a copy of the writ, together with a description of the prop
erty, and a notice that such real property, and any interest
of the defendant therein, held by or standing in the name
of such other erson (namin him), are attached; and by
leaving with t e occupant, i any, and with such other per
son, or his agent, if known and within the county, or at a
residence of either, if within the county, a copy of the writ,
with a similar description and notice. If there is no occu
pant of the property, a copy of the writ, together with such
description and notice, must be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the property. The Recorder must index such
attachment when ﬁled, in the names, both of the defendant
and of the person by whom the property is held, or in whose
name it stands on the records;
3. Personal property, capable of manual delivery must
be attached by taking it into custody;
4. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of anv
corporation or company, must be attached by leaving with
the president, or ot er ead of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or other managin agent thereof, a copy of the
writ, and a notice stating tiiat the stock or interest of the
defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ;
5. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not
capable of manual delivery, must be attached by leaving
with the person owing such debts, or_ having in l1lS posses
sion, or under his control, such credits or other personal
property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice
that the debts owin by him, to the defendant, or the cred
its or other persona propert * in his possession, or under his
control, belonging to the de endant, are attached in pursu
ance of such writ.
SEC. 4308. Upon receiving information in writing from
the plaintifff or his attorney, that any person has in l11S pos
session or under his control, an credits or other personal
proplerty belonging to the defen ant, or is owin any debt
to t e defendant, the sheriff must serve u on suc person a
copy of the writ, and a notice that suc credits, or other
property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pur
suance of such writ.
SEC. 4309. All persons having in their possession or un
der their control, any credits or other personal property be
longing to the defendant, at the time of service upon them
of a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such property be delivered up or
transferred, or such debts be paid to the Sheriff, liable to the
plaintifff for the amount of such credits, property, or debts,
until the attachment be discharged or any judgment recov
ered by him be satisﬁed.
SEC. 4310. Any person owing debts to the defendant,
or having in his ossession or under his control, any credits
or other persona property belonging to the defendant, may
be required to attend before the court or Judge or a referee
appointed by the court or Judge and be examined on oath re
specting the same. The defendant may also be required to
attend or the purp]ose of giving information respecting his
property and may e examined on oath. The court or Judge
may, after such examination, order personal groperty capa
ble of manual delivery to be delivered to the heriff on such
terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon
or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be given of
all other personal property, containing the amount and de
scription thereof.
Snc. 4311. The Sheriff must make a full inventory _of
the pro erty attached, and return the same with the writ.
To ena le him to make such return as to the debts and cred
its attached, he must request, at the time of service, the
party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a
memorandum, stating the amount and description of each
and if such memorandum be refused. he must return the
fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing to give
the memorandum may be required to pay the cost of any
proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining information
respiecting the amounts and description of such debt or
cre it. '
SEC. 4312. If any of the property attached be perisha
ble. the Sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which
such property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other
property attached by him must be retained by him to an
swer any judg')ment that may be recovered in the action, un
less sooner su jected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to issuing of the attachment. Debts and
credits attached may be collected by him if the same can be
done without suit. The Sheriff’s receipt is a sufficient dis
charge for the amount paid.
SEC. 4313. Whenever property has been taken by an
officer under a writ of attachment and it is made to appear
satisfactory to the court, or a judge thereof, that the inter
ests of the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale
thereof, the court or Judge may order such property to be
sold in the same manner as property is sold under an execu
tion, and the proceeds to be deposited in the court to abide
the judgment in the action. Such order can be made only
upon notice to the adverse lparty or his attorney, in case
such party has been persona y served with a summons in
the action.
Sac. 4314. If any personal property attached be claim
ed by a third person as his propert , the Sheriff may sum
mon a jury of six men to tr the va idity of such claim; and
such proceedings shall be ad thereon, with the like effect
as in case of a claim after lev upon execution.
SEC. 4315. If judgment e recovered by the plaintifff,
the Sheriff must satisfy the same out of the property at
tached by him which has not been delivered to the defendant,
or a claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to ex
ecution on another judgment recovered previous to the
issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that pur
pose;
1. By aying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishab e ‘property so d by him or of any debts or cred
its collecte by him, or so much as shall be necessary to
satisfy the judgment;
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have
been issued on the judgment, he must sell under the execu
tion so much of the I‘0]{)6l‘l3y, real or personal as may be
necessary to satisfy the alance, if enough for that purpose
remain in his hands. Notices of the sale must be given,
and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execu
tion.
SEC. 4316. If, after selling all the property attached by
him remaining in his hands and applying the proceeds to
gether with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by
im, deducting his fees, to the payment of the judgment,
anv balance shall remain due, the Sheriff must roceed to
collect such balance, as upon an execution in ot er cases.
Whenever the 'udgment shall have been paid, the Sheriff, up
on reasonable demand, must deliver over to the defendant the
attached property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds
of the property attached unapplied on the judgment.
SEC. 4317. If the execution be returned unsatisﬁed in
whole or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute any undertak
ing given pursuant to section 4305 or section 4320, or he
may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an execu
tion.
SEC. 4318. If the defendant recover judgment against
the plaintifff, any undertaking received in the action, allthe
proceeds of sales and money collected by the Sheriff, and all
the roperty attached remaining in the Sheriﬂ:"s hands must
be elivered to the defendant or his a ent. The order of at
tachment shall be discharged and t e property released
therefrom.
SEC. 4319. Whenever the defendanthas a peared in the
action, he may, u 011 reasonable notice to the p aintiff, ap(ply
to the court in w ich the action is pending, or to the Ju ge
thereof for an order to discharge the attachment wholly or
in part; and upon the execution of the undertakin men
tioned in the next section, an order may be made, re easing
from the operation of the attachment any or all of the prop
erty attached, and all of the property so released, and all of
the proceeds of the sales thereof must be delivered to the
defendant, upon the justiﬁcation of the sureties on the un
dertakin , if re uired by the plaintifff.
SEC. 4 20. efore making such order, the court or
Judge must require an undertakin on behalf of the defend
ant y at least two sureties, resi ents, and freeholders, or
householders, in the county, to the effect that in case the
plaintifff recover judgment 1n the action, defendant will, on
demand, redeliver the attached property so released to the
proper oﬂicer, to be applied to the ayment of the judgment,
or, in default thereof, that the de endant and sureties will,
‘on demand,Tplay to the plaintifff the full value of the property
released. e court or Judge making such order may ﬁx
the sum for which the undertaking‘ must be executed, and,
if necessary in ﬁxin such sum to know the value of the
property released, t 1e same may be appraised by one or
more disinterested persons, to be appointed for that purpose.
The sureties may be required to justify before the court or
Judge, and the property attached cannot be released from
the attachment without their justiﬁcation if the same be
re uired.
EC. 4321. The defendant may also at any time, either
before or after the release of the attached property, or be
fore any attachment shall have been actual y levied, apply
on motion upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff,-to the court
in which the action is brou ht, or to the Judge thereof, that
the writ of attachment be lschar ed on the ground that the
SI] me was improgerl or irregular y issued.
SEC. 4322. f t e motion be made upon affidavits on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff
may oppose the same by aﬂidavits or other evidence, in ad
dition to those on which the attachment was made.
SEC. 4323. If upon such application, it satisfactorily
appears that the writ of attachment was improperly or ir
regularly issued, it must be discharged.
SEC. 4324. The Sheriff must return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise within twenty da s after its receipt, with a certiﬁcate
of his proceedings in orsed thereon or attached thereto;
and whenever an order has been made discharging or re
leasing an attachment u on real roperty, a certiﬁed copy
of such order may be ﬁle in the o ce of the County Recor
der in which the notice of attachment has been ﬁled, and
be indexed in like manner.
CHAPTER V.
RECEIVERS.
BICTION Srrcrron
4329. Appointment of receiver. 4332. Oath and undertaking.
4330. Appointment oi receivers upon dis
solution of corporation.
4331. Who shall not be appointed.
4333. Powers of receivers.
4334. Investment of funds.
SECTION 4329. A receiver may be appointed by the
court in which an action is pending or has passed to judgment,
or by the Judge thereof: 1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent pur
chase of propert , or by a creditor to subject any property
or fund to his c aim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or jointly interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintifff_or of any party whose ri ht to, or
interest in the property, or fund, or the proceeds t ereof is
probable, and where it is shown that the pro erty or fund
1s in danger of being lost, removed or materia ly injured;
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his
mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it ap
pears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being lost,
removed or materially injured, or that the condition of the
mortgage has not been performed, and that the property is
probably insufficient to dischar e the mortgage debt;
3. After judgment to carry t e judgment into effect;
4. After judgment to dispose of the property according
to the judgment or to preserve it during the pendency of an
appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an exe
cution has been returned unsatisﬁed, or when the judg
ment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of
the judgment;
. 5. In the case when a cor oration has been dissolved, or
is insolvent, or in imminent anger of insolvency, or has for
feited its corporate rights;
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore
been ap ointed by the usa es of Courts of Equity.
SEC. £330. U on the issolution of any corporation, the
District Court of t e county in which the cor oration carries
on its business, or has its principal place o business, on
application of an creditor o the corporation, or of any
"member or stockholder thereof, may appoint one or more
persons to be receivers or trustees of the corporation, to take
charge of the estate and effects thereof, and to collect the
debts and property due and belonging to the cor oration,
and to pay the outstanding debts thereof, and to ivide the
monies and other property that shall remain over, among
the stockholders or members.
SEC. 4331. No party, or attorney, or person interested
in an action, can be appointed receiver therein, without the
written consent of th'e parties, ﬁled with the Clerk. If a re
ceiver be appointed u(pon an exparte agiplication, the court,
before making the or er, may require rom the applicant an
undertaking, with sufficient sureties, in an amount to be
ﬁxed by the court, to the effect that the applicant will pay
to the defendant all damages he may sustain by reason of
the appointment of such receiver and the entry by him upon
his duties, in case the applicant shall have rocured such
appointment wrongfully, maliciously, or wit out suﬂicient
cause; and the court may, in its discretion, at an time after
said appointment, require an additional underta ing.
SEC. 4332. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or
more sureties, approved by the court or Judge. execute an
undertaking, to such person, and in such sum as the court
or Judge may direct, to the effect that he will faithfully
discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the
orders of the court therein.
SEC. 4333. The receiver has under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name,
as receiver; to take and keep possession of the (property, to
receive rents, collect debts, to compound for an comprom
ise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such
acts res ecting the property as the court may authorize.
SEC. 334. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be in
vested u on interest, by order of the court; but no such or
der can e made, except upon the consent of all the parties
to the action.
CHAPTER VI-.
DEPOSIT IN Counr.
Siccrion
Siwrios
4341. Manner of enforcing the order.
4339. Deposit in court.
4340. Money paid to clerk must be depos
ited with County Treasurer.
SECTION 4339. VVhen it is admitted b the pleading, or
shown upon the examination of a party, t at he has in his
possession, or under his control any money or other thing
ca able of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which be
longs or is due to another party, the court ma order the
same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or elivered to
such party, upon such conditions as may be just, subject to
the further direction of the court.
SEC. 4340. If the money is deposited in court it must be
aid to the Clerk, who must deposit it with the County
reasurer, by him to be held subject to the order of the court.
For the safe kee ing of the money deposited with him the
Treasurer is liab e on his ofﬁcial bond.
SEC. 4341. Whenever, in the exerciseof its authorit , a
court has ordered the deposit or delivery of mone , or ot er
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court. besi e_ punish
ing the disobedience, may make an order requiring_the
Sheriff to take the money, or thing, and deposit, or deliver
it in conformity with the direction of the court.
SECTION 4350. A judgment is the ﬁnal determination of
the rights of the arties in an action or proceeding.
SEC. 4351. ud ent may be given for, or against one
or more of several p aintiifs, and for or against one or more
of several defendants; and it ma , when the justice of the
case requires it, determine the u timate rights of the parties
on each side, as between themselves.
S130. 4352. In an action against several defendants the
court-may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or
more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several judgment is pro er.
SEC. 4853. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there
be no answer, cannotexceed that which e shall have de
manded in his complaint- but in any other case, the court
may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by
the com laint and embraced within the issue.
SEC. 354. An action ma be dismissed, or a judgment
of non-suit entered, in the fol owing cases:
1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, upon
the payment of costs; Provided, A counterclaim has not
been made or affirmative relief sought by the cross-com
laint or answer of defendant. If a provisional remedy
as been allowed the undertaking must thereupon be de
livered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his
action thereon;
2. By either party, upon the written consent of the other;
3. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to a pear on the
trial, and the defendant appears and asks for t e dismissal;
4. By the court, when, upon the trial, and before the ﬁnal
submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it;
5. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when, up
on the trial, the laintiff fails to prove a sufficient case for
the jury. The ismissal mentioned in the ﬁrst two subdivisions is made by an entry in the Olerk’s register. Judg
merit may thereupon be entered accordingly.
SEC. 4355. In every case, other than those mentioned
in the last section, judgment must be rendered on the
merits.
SECTION 4360. Jud ent may be had, if the defendant
fail to answer the comp aint, as follows:
1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been ﬁled with
the Clerk of the Court within the time speciﬁed in the sum
mons, or such further time as may have been granted, the
Clerk, upon a plication of the plaintifff, must enter the de
fault of the
efendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount speciﬁed in the summons, includ
ing the costs against the defendant, or against one or more
of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section
4147;
2. In other actions, if no answer has been ﬁled with the
Clerk of the Court within the time s eciﬁed in the summons,
or such further time as may have een granted, the Clerk
must enter the default of the defendant: and thereafter the
plaintifff may apply at the ﬁrst or an subse uent term of
the court for the relief demanded in t e comp aint. If the
taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is necessary
to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judg
ment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof; or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of dam
ages, in whole or in part, the court may order the damages
to be assessed by a jury; or if, to determine the amount of
damages, the examination of a long account be involved, by
a reference as above provided;
In actions where the service of the summons was by
ublication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time
or answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that
no answer has been ﬁled, appl for judgment; and the court
must thereupon require proo to be made of the demand
mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be not a
resident of the Territory, must require the plaintifff or his
agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that
have been made to the plaintifff or to any one for his use, on
account of such deman , and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover.
CHAPTER III.
ISSUES——THE Mons: or TRIAL AND Posrroxmiisivrs.
SECTION’ SECTION
4365. Issue deﬁned, and the different 4370. Clerk must enter causes on the
kinds. calendar, to remain until disposed
4366. Issue of law, how raised. of. _ 4367.
Issue of fact, how raised. 4371. Parties may bring issue be trial.
4368. Issue of law, how tried. 4372. Motion to postpone s. trial for ab
-136£). Issue of fact, how tried. When is- sence of testimony, requisites oi.
sues both of law and fact, the 4373. In cases of adjournment s party
former to be ﬁrst disposed of. may have the testimony of any
witness taken.
SECTION 4365. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or a conclusion of law is maintained by the one party
and is controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact.
SEC. 4366. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the com laint or answer, or to some part thereof.
SEC. 367. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; and,
2. Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue of
law is joined thereon.
SEC. 4368. An issue of law must be tried by the court,
unless it is referred upon consent.
SEC. 4369. In actions for the recovery of speciﬁc real or
personal property, with or without damages, or for money
claimed as due upon contract, or as damages for breach of
contract, or for injuries, an issue of fact must be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference is ordered,
as provided in this Code. Where, in these cases, there are
issues both of law and fact, the issue of law must be ﬁrst
disposed of. In other cases, issues of fact must be tried by
the court subject to its power to order an issue to be referred
to a referee, as rovided in this Code.
SEC. 4370. he Clerk must enter causes upon the cal
endar of the court according to the date of issue. Causes
once placed on the calendar must remain u on the calendar
from court to court, until ﬁnally disposed o ; Provided, That
causes ma be dropped from the calendar by consent of
parties, or y order 0 the court, and may be again restored
upon notice.
SEC. 4371. Either party may bring an issue to trial, or
to a hearing, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless
the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed
with his case and takea dismissal of the action, or a ver
dict, or judgment, as the case may require.
SEC. 4372. A motion to postpone a trial on the
of the absence of evidence can only be made upon a
showing the materialit of the evidence expected to be ob
tained, and that due di igence has been used to procure it.
The court may also require the moving party to state, upon
aiﬁdavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the
trial, or offered and" overruled as improper, the trial must
not be postponed.
SEC. 4373. The party obtaining a post onement of a
trial in any court of record must, if required y the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such
adverse arty, who is in attendance, be then taken b de
position efore a Judge or Clerk of the court in whic the
case is ending, or before such Notary Public as the court
may in icate, which must accordingly be done; and the tes
timony so taken may be read on the trial, with the same ef
fect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses
were produced.
round
davit
SECTION 4378. When the action is called for trial by
jury, the Clerk must draw from the trial 'ury box of the
court, the ballots containing the names of t e jurors, until
the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted.
SEC. 4379. Either arty may challenge the jurors, but
where there are sever parties on either side, they must
join in a challen e before it can be made. The challen es
are to individu jurors, and are either peremptory or or
cause. Each party is entitled to four peremptory chal
lenges. If no peremptor challenges are taken until the panel
is full, they must be ta en by the parties alternately, com
mencin with the laintiff.
SEC. 380. C allenges for cause may be taken on one
or more of the following grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by this
Code to render a person competent as a juror;
2. Consanguinity or affinity, within the fourth degree to
any Pmy;
3. Standing in the relation of debtor or creditor, guard
ian and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or
principal and agent to either party, or being a member of
the family of either party, or a partner, or united in busi
ness with either party, or surety on any bond or obligation
for either party;
4. Havin served as a juror or been a witness on a pre
vious trial etween the same parties for the same cause
of action, or being then a witness or subpoenaed there
in;
5. Pecuniary interest on the part of the juror in the event
of the action or in the main question involved in the action,
except his interest as amember'or citizen of a municipal
corporation;
6. Having an unqualiﬁed opinion or belief as to the mer
its of the action, or main question involved therein, found
ed upon knowledge or information of its material facts or
of some of them;
7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing
enmity against or bias to or against either party.
SEC. 4381. Challenges for cause must be tried by the
court. The juror challenged and any other person, may be
examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.
SEC. 4382. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath
must be administered to the jurors in substance, that they
and each of them will well and truly try the matter in issue
between , the laintiif, and , the de
gendant, and a true ver ict render according to the evi
ence.
SEC. 4383. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
must proceed in the following order, unless the Judge for
special reasons otherwise directs:
1. The plaintifff, after stating the issue and his case, must
produce the evidence on his part;
2. The defendant ma then open his defense and offer
his evidence in support t ereof;
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evi
dence only, unless the court, for good reason, in furtherance
of justice, permit them to oﬂt'er evidence upon their original
case;
4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case is
submitted to the jury on either side or on both sides with
out ar ent, the plaintifff must commence and may con
clude t e argument;
5. If several defendants having se arate defenses, a pear
by different counsel, the court must etermine their re ative
order in the evidence and argument;
6. The court may then charge the jury.
SEC. 4384. In charging the jury the court may state to
them all matters of law which he thinks necessary for their
information in giving their verdict: and if it state the tes
timony of the case it must inform the jury that they are the
exclusive jud es of all questions of fact. The court must
furnish to eit er arty at the time, upon re uest, a state
ment in writing 0 the points of law containe in the charge
or sign at the time a statement of such points prepared and
submitted by the counsel of either party.
SEC. 4385. Where either party asks s ecialinstructions
to be given to the jury, the court must eit er give such in
structions, as requested, or refuse to do so, or ive the in
struction with a modiﬁcation, in such manner t at it may
distinctly appear what instructions were given in whole or
in art.
EC. 4386. When, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the ijury to have a view of the property which is
the subject of itigation, or of the place in which any ma
terial fact occurred- it may order them to be conducted, in
a body, under the charge of an oﬂﬁcer, to the place, which
shall be shown to them b some person appointed by the
court for that urpose. Viyhile the jury are thus absent, no
person, other t an the person so a pointed, shall speak to
them on any subject connected wit the trial.
SEC. 4387. If the jur are permitted to separate, either
durin the trial or after t e case is submitted to them, they
shall e admonished b the court that it is their duty not to
converse with, or su er themselves to be addressed by any
other person, on any subject of the trial, and that it is their
479
duty not to form or ex ress an opinion thereon until the
case is ﬁnall submitte to them.
SEC. 438 . U on retiring for deliberation the jury may
take with them al papers which have been received as evi
dence in the cause, except depositions, or copies of such pa
ers as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken
rom the person having them in possession; and they may
also take with them notes of the testimony or other pro
ceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them,
but none taken b any other person.
SEC. 4389. hen the case is ﬁnally_ submitted to the
'ury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation.
f they retire, they must be kept to ether, -in some con
venient place, under char e of an o oer, until they agree
upon a verdict or are disc aried by the court. Unless by
order of the court the oﬁicer aving them under his charge
must not suffer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, except to ask them if they are agreed
upon their verdict; and he must not, before their verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their de
liberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 4390. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desired to be informed of an point
of law arising in the cause, they may require the 0 oer to
conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into
court, the information required must be given in the pre
sence of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel.
SEC. 4391. If, after the im aneling of the jurv, and be
fore verdict, a juror become sicyir, so_as to be unable to per
form his duty, the court may order him to be discharged.
In that case the trial may proceed with the other jurors, or
another juror ma be sworn and the trial begin anew; orthe
jury may be disc arged, and a new jury then or afterwards
1m aneled.
EC. 4392. In all cases where the jury are discharged
or prevented from giving a verdict, b reason of accident
or other cause, during the progress of t e trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried
immediately, or at a. future time, as the court may direct.
SEC. 4393. While the are absent the court may
adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business- but
it is nevertheless open for every purpose connected with the
cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or
the jury dischar ed. The court may direct the jury to
bring in a seale verdict, at the opening of the court, in
case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for
the day. A ﬁnal adjournment of the court for the term dis
charges the iury.
SEC. 439 . When the jury have agreed upon their ver
dict, the must be conducted into court, their names called
b the lerk and the verdict rendered by their foreman.
T 1e verdict must be in writin , signed by the foreman and
must be read bv the Clerk to t e jury, and the inquiry made
whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the
must be sent out again; but if no disagreement be expresse
and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict
is complete and the jury discharged from the case. Eithe
party may re uire the jury to be polled, which is done by the
court or Cler asking each juror if it is his verdict. If
any one answer in the negative, the jury must again be sent
on-t.
SEC. 4395. When the verdict is announced, if it is in
formal or insufficient in not covering the issue submitted, it
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court,
or the jury may be again sent out‘.
SEC. 4396. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues either in favor of the
plaintifff or efendant; a special verdict is that by which the
jury ﬁnd the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court.
The s ecial verdict must present the conclusions of fact as
estab ished by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and those conclusions of fact must be so presented as
that nothing shall remain to the court but to draw from
them conclusions of law.
SEC. 4397. In an action for the recovery of money only,
or speciﬁc real property, the 'ury, in their discretion, may ren
der a general or special ver ict. In all other cases the court
may direct a jury to ﬁnd a special verdict in writing upon all
or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them,if they
render a general verdict, to ﬁnd upon particular questions
of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written
ﬁnding thereon.
The special verdict or ﬁnding must be ﬁled with the Clerk
and entered upon the minutes. Where a s ecial ﬁnding of
facts, is inconsistent with the general ver ict, the former
controls the latter, and the Court must give judgment ac
cordingly.
SEC. 4398. When a verdict is found for the
an action for the recovery of money, or for the
when a counterclaim for the recovery of mone is estab
lished, exceeding the amount of the plaintiﬂ"s c aim as es
tablished, the jury niust also ﬁnd the amount of the recov
ery.
SEC. 4399. In an action for the recovery of speciﬁc per
sonal property, if the roperty has not been delivered to the
plaintifff, or the defen ant, by his answer, claim a return
thereof, the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the laintiff,
or, if being in favor of the defendant, they also ﬁn that he
is entitled to a return thereof, must ﬁnd the value of the
property, and if so instructed, the value of s eciﬁc portions
thereof, and may at the same time, assess t e damages, if
any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the pre
vailing party has sustained by reason of the taking or de
tention of such property.
SEC. 4400. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry must be
made by the Clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying
the time of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses,
and setting out the verdict at length; and where special ver
dict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or if
the case be reserved for argument or further consideration,
the order thus reserving it.
laiiitiff in
efendant,
SECTION 4405. Trial by jury may be waived by the
several parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on con
tract, or, for the recovery of speciﬁc real or personal rop
erty, with or without damages, and with the assent o the
court, in other actions, in manner following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial;
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, ﬁled
with the Clerk;
3. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes.
SEC. 4406. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the
court, its decision must be given in writing and ﬁled with
the Clerk within twenty days after the cause in submitted
for decision. I
n
SE0. 4407. giving the decision, the facts found and
the conclusions of aw must be separately stated. Judg
ment upon the decision must be entered accordingly.
I SEO. 4408. Findings of fact may be waived y the sev
eral parties to an issue of fact:
1. By failing to appear at the trial
2. By consent in writing, ﬁled with the Clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
SEC. 4409. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an is
sue of law, he may proceed in the manner rescribed by the
ﬁrst two subdivisions of section 4360 u on t e failure of the
defendant to answer. If judgment e for the defendant
upon an issue of law, and the taking of an account, or the
proof of any fact, be necessary to enable the court to com
plete the judgment, a reference may be ordered, as in that section provi ed.
CHAPTER VI.
Or REFERENCES AND TRIALS BY REFEREES.
Sncmon 5 SECTION
4417. Either party may object, grounds of
objection.
4419. Objections, how disposed of.
4414. Reference ordered upon agreement
of parties, in what cases.
4415. Reference ordered on motion, in
what cases. 4419. Referees to report within twenty
4416. Number of referees, qualiﬁcations, days.
4420. Eﬂect of referee's ﬁnding.
am‘ l4421. How excepted to, etc.
SECTION 4414. A reference may he ordered upon the
agreement of the parties ﬁled with the Clerk, or entered in
the minutes:
1. To try an or all the issues in an action or roceed
in , whether o fact or of law, and to report a ﬁn ing and
ju gment thereon;
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to
determine an action or proceeding.
SEC. 4415. \Vhen the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference in the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the exam
ination of a long account on either side; in which case the
referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue
or report upon any speciﬁc question of fact involved there
in;
2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the
information of the court before judgment, or for carrying
a judgrkr/_1ent or order into effect;
3. hen a question of fact other than upon the lead
ings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of t e ac
tion;
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court
in a special roceeding.
SEC. 4418. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties.
If the parties do not agree the court or Jud e must appoint
one or more referees, not exceeding three, w o reside in the
county in which the action or proceeding is triable, and
against whom there is no legal objection.
SEC. 4417. Either party may object to the a point
ment of any person as referee, on one or more of the ollow
ing grounds:
1. A want of any of the qualiﬁcations prescribed by stat
ute to render a person com etent as a juror;
2. Consangumity or a nity within the third degree to
either art ;
3. Sltamling in the relation of guardian and ward, master
and servant, em loyer and clerk, or principal and agent to
either party, or eing a member of the family of either par
ty; or a partner in business with either party; or being
security on any bond or obligation for either party;
4. Having served as a juror or been a. witness on any
trial between the same parties for the same cause of ac
tion
5. , Interest on the part of such person in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the ac
tion;
6. Havin formed or ex ress [ed] an unqualiﬁed opinion or
belief as to t e merits of t e action;
7. The existence of a state of mind in such person evinc
ing enmity against or bias to either party.
EC. 4418. The objections taken to the appointment of
any person as referee must be heard and disposed of by the
court. Afﬁdavits may be read and witnesses examined as
to such objections.
SEC. 4419. The referees must report their ﬁndings in
writing to the court within twenty days after the testimo
ny is closed; and the facts found and conclusions of law
must be se aratel stated therein.
SEC. 44 O. he ﬁndin of the referee upon the whole
issue must stand as the ﬁn ing of the court, and upon ﬁling
the ﬁnding with the Clerk of the Court, jud ent maybe
entered thereon in the same manner as if t e action had
been tried by the court.
SEC. 4421. The ﬁndings of the referee ma be excepted
to and reviewed in like manner as if made y the court.
VVhen the reference is to report the facts, the ﬁnding re
ported has the effect of a special verdict.
CHAPTER VII.
EXCEPTIONS.
SECTION Sscrron
4426. Exceptions may be taken. Time 44:41. Exceptions after judgment. etc.
when taken, etc. -1-132. When exception is refused, applica
4427. What deemed excepted to. tion to Supreme Court to prove
4428. Exception. Form oi. the same, etc
4-129. Exceptions signed by Judge and 4433. Proceedings where Judge ceases to
filed with Clerk. hold oﬂlce.
4430. Exceptions not presented at time
of ruling. Notice to adverse par
ty, how settled upon, etc.
Sscrron 4426. An exception is an objection upon a
matter of law, to a decision made either before or after
judgment, by a court, tribunal, Judge, or otherjudicial offi
cer 1n an action or proceeding.
Except as rovided in the next section, the exception must
be taken an settled at the time the decision is made, and
no order of court shall be made for the settlement of such
exception at any other time, except by the agreement of
both parties.
When an exception is taken, the court, Judge, tribunal,
or judicial oﬂicer shall allow sufﬁcient time for the reduc
tion to writinﬁ, and settlement of the same, and in case
such time sha not be allowed, or such exception shall not
be fairly settled, the facts may be shown by afﬁdavit, and
the party taking such exce tion may apply to the court, or
tribunal, to which an ap ea}l lies, in the action or proceed
ing, to settle the same airly, according to the facts, and
when so settled, the same shall become a part of the record
in such action or proceeding. [Act Jan. 31, 1887, in effect
June 1, 1887.]
SEC. 4427. The verdict of the jury, the ﬁnal decision in
an action or proceeding, an interlocutory order'or decision,
ﬁnally determinin the rights of the parties, or some of
them; an order or ecision made upon a contested motion;
an order or decision from which an appeal may be taken;
anorder sustaining or overruling a demurrer, allowing or
refusing to allow an amendment to a pleading, striking out
a gleadin or a portion thereof, refusing a continuance; an
or er ma e upon ea:- arie application, and an order or de
cision made in the a sence of a party, are deemed to have
been excepted to; and such exception to the verdict of a jury;
to the ﬁnal decision of an action or proceeding; to an order
or decision ﬁnally determining the rights of t e parties or
any of them; to an order sustaining or overruling a demur
rer; or to any other order or decision included within the
terms of this section, where such order or decision and the
gapers upon which it is made are a art of the records and
les in the action, need not, unless esired by the party ob
jecting thereto, be embodied in a bill of exceptions, but the
same, appearin in the record or ﬁles, may be reviewed upon
appeal as thong settled in such bill of exceptions.
SEC. 4428. No particular form of exception is required.
But when the exception is to the verdict or decision, upon
the rounds of the insufﬁcienc of the evidence to sustain
it, t e objection must specify t e particulars in which such
evidence is alleged to be insufficient. The objection must
be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter as
is necessary to explain it, and no more. Only the substance
of the Reporter’s notes of the evidence shall be stated. Docu
ments on ﬁle in the action or proceeding may be copied, or
the substance thereof stated, or a reference thereto, suffi
cient to identify them may be made.
SEC. 4429. A bill containing the exce tion to an deci
sion may be resented to the court or J u gle for sett ement
at the time t ie decision is made, and after aving been set
tled, shall be signed by the Judge and ﬁled with the Clerk.
When the decision excepted to is made by a tribunal other
than a court, or by a judicial oﬂicer, the bill of exce tions
shall be presented to, and settled and signed by such tri unal
or officer. SEC. 4430. VVhen a part desires to have exceptions
taken at a trial settled in a bi l of exceptions, he may, with
in ten days after the entry of judgment, if the action were
tried with a. jury, or after receiving notice of the entry" of
jud ent, if the action were tried without a jury, or such
urt er time as the court in which the action is pending, or
a Judge thereof, may allow, prepare the draft o a bill, and
serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse party.
Within ten da s after such service, the adverse party may
propose amen ments thereto, and serve the same, or a cop
thereof, upon the other party. The proposed bill and £tI116I1( ments
must within ten days therea ter, by the part seek
ing the settlement of the bill, be delivered to the Cler of the
Court for the Jud e who tried or heard the case. When re
ceived by the Cler , he must immediately deliver them to
the Judge, if he be in the county; if he be absent from the
county, and within the Territor , and either party desire the
papers to be forwarded to the udge, the Clerk must, upon
notice in writing of such party, immediately forward them
b mail, or other safe channel; if not thus forwarded, the
C erk must deliver them to the Judge immediate] after his
return to the county. When received from the lerk, the
Judge must designate the time at which he will settle the
bill, and the Clerk must immediately notify the parties of
such desi ation. At the time designated, the Judge must
settle the ill. If the action was tried before a referee, the
proposed bill, with the amendments, if any, must be re
sented to such referee for settlement within ten days a ter
service of the amendments, and thereafter, upon notice of
ﬁve da s to the adverse party, the referee shall settle the
bill. I no amendments are served, or~if served are allowed,
the proposed bill may be presented, with the amendments, if
any, to the Judge or referee, for settlement without notice
to the adverse arty. It is the duty of the Jud e or referee,
in settling the ill, to strike out of it all redun ant and use
less matter, so that the exceptions may be presented as
brieﬂy as ossible. VVhen settled, the bill must be signed
by the J u_ ge or referee, with his certiﬁcate to the effect that
the same is allowed, and shall then be ﬁled with the Clerk.
SEC. 4431. Exceptions to any decision made after jud iiient,
may be presented to the udge at the time of suc
decision and be settled or noted as rovided in section 4429,
and a bill thereof may be presente and settled afterwards,
as provided in section 4430, and within like eriods after en
try of the order upon appeal from which suc decision is re
viewable. ' .
SEC. 4432. If the Judge in any case refuse to allow an
exception in accordance with the facts, thesparty desiring
the bill settled may apply by petition to the upreme Court
to prove the same. he application may be made in the
mode and manner, and under such regulations as that Court
may rescribe; and the bill when proven, must be certiﬁed
by a ustice as correct, and ﬁled with the Clerk of the Court
in which the action was tried, and when so ﬁled it has the
same force and effect as if settled by the Judge who tried
the cause.
SEC. 4433. When the decision excepted to was made by
any judicial officer other than a Ju e, the bill of exceptions
shall he presented to such judicial o cer and be settled and
signed by him, in the same manner as it is required to be
resented to, settled and signed by a court or Judge. A
udge or judicial oﬂicer may settle and si n a bill of excep
tions after as well as before he ceases to e such Judge or
judicial oﬂicer. If such Judge or judicial oiﬁcer, before
the bill" of exce tions is settled, dies, is removed from oiﬁce,
becomes dis ua iﬁed, is absent from the Territory, or refuses
to settle the ill of exceptions, or if no mode is provided by
law for the settlement of the same, it shall be settled and
certiﬁed in such manner as the Supreme Court ma , by its
order or rules, direct. Judges, judicial oﬂicers, an the Su
preme Court shall respectively possess the same power, in
settling and certifying statements as is by this section con
ferred upon them in settling and certifying bills of excep
tions.
4438.
4439.
4440.
4441.
CHAPTER VIII.
NEW TRIALS.
SECTION
4442. Motion to be heard.
New trial deﬁned.
When a. new trial me. be granted.
On what papers move for. 4443. Record on appeal.
Notice of motion, upon whom served 4444. New trial ordered by court.
and what to contain. 4445. Motion, where heard.
SECTION 4438. A new trial is a re-examination of an is
sue of fact in the same Court after a trial and decision by a
jury or Court or by referees.
SEC. 4439. The former verdict or other decision may be
vacated and a new trial anted on the application of the
paity aggrieved, for any o the following causes, materially
affecting the substantial rights of such arty:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings o the court, jury, or
adverse party, or any ‘order of the court or abuse of discre
tion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial; 2.
Misconduct of the jury; and when any one or more of
the jurors have been induced to assent to any eneral or
special verdict, or to a ﬁnding on any question su mitted to
t em by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance.
Such misconduct may be proved by the aﬂidavit of any one
of the jurors;
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could
not have arded against;
4. Newgrudiscovered evidence, material for the party mak
in the application, which he could not, with reasonable
di igence, have discovered and produced at the trial;
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given un
-der the inﬂuence of Passion or prejudice;
6. Insuﬂiciency o the evidence to justify the verdict or
-other decision, or that it is against law;
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by
the part makin the application.
SEC. O. hen an a plication is made for a cause
mentioned in the ﬁrst, secon , third, and fourth subdivisions
-of the last section it must be made upon affidavits; for any
other cause it may be made, at the option of the moving
party either upon the records, and ﬁles in the action, or the
minutes of the court or a bill of exceptions, or a statement
-of the case epared as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 4443.1.. The party intending to move for a new trial
must, within ten days after the verdict of the 'ury, if the
action were tried by a jury, or after notice of t e decision
of the court or referee, if the action were tried without a
jury, ﬁle with the Clerk and serve upon the adverse party a
notice of his intention, designatin the grounds upon which
the motion will be made, and W ether the same will be
made upon aﬁidavits, or the records and ﬁles in the action,
-or the minutes of the court or a bill of exceptions, or the
statement of the case;
1. If the motion is to be made upon aﬂidavits, the movin
artg must, within ten days after serving the notice, or suc
urt er time as the court 1n which the action is pending, or
a Judge thereof may allow, ﬁle such aﬂidavits with the
-Clerk and serve a copy upon the adverse party, who shall
have ten days to ﬁle counter affidavits, a copy of which must
be served upon the moving party;
2. If the motion is to be ma e utpon a bill of exceptions,
and no bill has already been settle as hereinbefore provid
ed, the moving party shall have the same time after service
-of the notice to prepare and obtain a settlement of a bill of
exceptions, as is provided after the entry of judgment or
after receiving notice of such entry by section 4430, and the
bill shall be prepared and settled in a similar manner. - If a
bill of exceptions has been already settled and ﬁled, when
the notice of motion is given, such bill shall be used on the
motion
3. If the motion is to be made on a statement of the case,
the moving party must, within ten da s after service of
the notice, or such further time as the ourt in which the
action is pending, or the Judge thereof may allow, prepare
a draft of the statement, and serve the same, or a copy
thereof upon the adverse party.
If such proposed statement be not agreed to by the ad
verse party, he must, within ten days thereafter, repare
amendments thereto, and serve the same or a copy t ereof,
upon the moving party. If the amendments be adopted,
the statements sha 1 be amended accordingly and then pre
sented to the Judge, who tried or heard the cause, for settle
ment, or be delivered to the Clerk of the Court for the Judge.
If not adopted, the proposed statement and amendments
shall, within ten days thereafter, be by the movin arty
delivered to the Clerk of the Court for the Judge; an t ere
upon the same proceedin s for the settlement of the state
ment shall be taken by t e parties, and Clerk and Judie,
as are required for the settlement of bills of exception y section 4430. If the action was heard bya referee, the same
proceedings shall be had for the settlement of the statement
y him as are required by that section for the settlement of
bills of exception by a referee. If no amendments are
served within the time desi ated, or, if served are allowed,
the proposed statement an amendments, if any, may be
presented to the Judge or referee for settlement without no
tice to the adverse party. When the notice of the motion
designates as the ground of the motion, the insufficiency of
the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
statement shall specify the particulars in which such evi
dence is alleged to be insufficient.
When the notice designates as the ground of the motion,
‘errors in law occurring at the trial and mcepted to by the
moving party, or deemed excepted to, the statement shall
s ecify t e particular errors upon which the party will rely.
I no such speciﬁcations be made, the statement shall be
disregarded on the hearing of the motion. It is the duty of
the Judge or referee in settling the statement, to strike out
of it all redundant and useless matter, and tomake the state
ment truly represent the case, notwithstanding the assent
of the parties to such redundant or useless matter, or toan
inaccurate statement. When settled, the statement sh
be signed by the Judge or referee, with his certiﬁcate to
the effect t at the same is allowed and shall then be ﬁled
with the Clerk;
4. \Vlien the motion is to be made upon the minutes of
the court, and the ground of the motion is the insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
notice of motion must specify the particulars in which the
evidence is alleged to be insuﬁicient; and, if the ground of
the motion be errors in law occurring at the trial, and ex
cepted to by the moving party, or deemed excepted to, the
notice must specify the particular errors upon which the
party will rel . If the notice do not contain the s ciﬁca
tions here in icated, when the motion is made on t e min
utes of the court, the motion must be denied.
SEC. 4442. The ap lication for a new trial shall be heard
at the earliest practica le period after notice of the motion,
if the motion is to be heard upon the minutes of the court,
and in other cases, after the affidavits, bill of exceptions. or
statement, as the case may be, are ﬁled, and may be brought
to a hearing upon motion of either party. On such hearing
reference may be had in all cases to the pleadings and orders
of the court on ﬁle, and when the motion is made on the
minutes, reference may also be had to any depositions, docu_
mentary evidence, and phonographic report of the testi
mony on ﬁle.
SEC. 4443. The judgment roll and the affidavits, or the
records and ﬁles in the action, or bill of exceptions, or state
ment, as the case may be, used on the hearing, with a copy
of the order made, shall constitute the record to be used on
appeal from the order ranting or refusin a new trial, unless the motion be ma e on the minutes o the court, and in
that case the judgment roll and a statement to be subse
uently prepared, with a copy of the order, shall constitute
t e record on appeal. Such subsequent statement shall be
pro osed by the party appealin , or intending to appeal,
wit in ten days a ter the entry 0 the order, or such further
time as the court in which the action is pending, ora Jud e
thereof, may allow, and the same, or a co y thereof e
served upon the adverse party, who shall ave ten da s
thereafter to prepare amendments thereto, and serve t 1e
same or a co y thereof, u on the party appealing, or intend
ing to appea ; and therea ter proceedings shall be had, and
within like periods, for the settlement of the statement, as
provided by section 4441, but the statement shall only con
tain the grounds ar ued before the court for a new trial, and
so much of the evi ence or other matter as may be neces
sary to explain them; and it shall be the duty of the Judge
to exclude all other evidence or matter from the statement.
SEC. 4444. The verdict of a jury may also be vacated,
and a new trial granted by the court, in which the action is
pending, on its own motion, without theap lication of either
of the parties, when there has been sucha p ain disregard by
the jury of the instructions of the court, or the evidence in
the case, as to satisfy the court that the verdict was rendered
under a misapprehension of such instructions, or under the
inﬂuence of passion, or prejudice. The order of the court
may be reviewed on appeal in the same manner as orders
made on motions fora new trial, and a statement to be used
on such appeal may be pre ared in the same manner as
- statements after a motion is eard upon the minutes of the
court, as rovided in section 4443.
Snc. 4 5. The motion for a new trial may be brought
to a hearing before the Judge who tried or heard the case,
at chambers, or in open court, in any county of the Ter
ritory.
CHAPTER IX.
Mnx. ER or GIVING AND Exrnnmc J UDGMENT.
BICPION Sncrxox
4450. Judgment to be entered in twenty- 4456. Judgment roll, what to constitute.
four hours, etc. 4457. Judgment lien, when it begins and
4451. Case may be brought before the when it expires.
court for argument. 4459. Docket, how kept, and wh at to con
4452. When counterclaim established ex- tein.
coeds p1nintiﬂ"s demand. 4459. Docket to be open to inspection
4453- In replevin,judgmentto be in the without charge.
alternative, and with dsmages. 4460. Transcript to be ﬁled in any county,
Gold coin or currency judgment. and judgment to become a lien
4454. Judgment book to be kept by the there. _
Clerk. 4461. Satisfaction of s. Judgment, how
4455. Ii 0. party die alter verdict judgment made.
gray be entered, but not to be s
an.
SECTION 4450. VVhen trial by jury has been had, judgment must be entered bv the Clerk, in conformity to the
verdict, within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the
verdict, unless the court order the case to be reserved for
argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of pro
ceedings.
SEC. 4451. When the case is reserved for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may
be brou ht by either party before the court for ar ument.
SEC. 52. If a counterclaim, established at t e trial,
exceed the plaintifffs demand, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess; or if 1t appear that the defend
ant is entitled to an other aiﬁrmative relief, judgment
must be given accor ingly.
SEC. 4453. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the
possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be
ad, and damages for the detention. If the property has
been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claima
return thereof, judgment for the defendant-' may be for a
return of the ropert or the value thereof, in case a return
cannot be ha , and amages for takin and withholding the
same. In an action on a contract or o ligation in writing,
for the direct payment of money, made payable in a speci
ﬁed kind of mone or currenc , judgment for the plaintiﬁ,
whether it be by efault or a ter verdict, or decision, may
follow the contract or obligation, and be made payable in
the kind of money or currency speciﬁed therein, and in all
actions for the recovery of money, if the plaintifff alle e in
his complaint that the sa.me was understood or agr by
the respective parties to be payable in a speciﬁed kind of
money or currency, and this fact is admitted b the default
of the defendant or established by evidence, t e 'udgment
for the plaintifff must be made payable in the kin of money
or currency so alleged in the complaint; and in an action
against any person for the recovery of money received by
such person 1n a ﬁduciary capacity, or to the use of another
Lud ent for the plaintifff, must be made payable in the
in of money or currency so received by such person.
SEC. 4454. The Clerk must keep with the records of the
court, a book to be called the “Judgment book,” in which
judgments must be entered.
SEC. 4455. If a party die after a verdict or decision
upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may
nevertheless render 'udgment thereon. Such judgment is
not a lien on the re property of the deceased party, but is
pa able in the course of admmistration on his estate.
EC. 4456. Immediately after entering the judgment,
the Clerk must attach to ether and ﬁle the following papers,
which constitute the ju gment roll:
1. In case the com lamt be not answered b any defend
ant, the summons wit the aﬂidavit or proof o service, and
the complaint, with a memorandum endorsed thereon that
the default of the defendant in not answering was entered,
and a cop of the judgment; _
2. In a l other cases, the leadings, a copy of the verdict
of the jury, or ﬁnding of t e Court, or referee, all bills of
exceptions taken and ﬁled, and a cop of any order made
on demurrer, or relatin to a change o parties, and a copy
of the judgment. If t ere are two or more defendants 111
the action, and any one of them has allowed judgment to
pass against him b default. the summons. with proof of
1ts service upon suc defendant, must also be added to the
other papers mentioned in this subdivision.
SEC. 4457. Immediately after ﬁling the judgment roll,
the Clerk must make the pro er entries of the judgment,
under appropriate heads, in t e docket kept by him, and
from the time the judgment is docketed it becomes alien
upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not ex
empt from execution, in the county owned by him at the
time or which he may afterwards acquire, until the lien ex
pires. The lien continues for two years unless the judg
ment be previously satisﬁed, or unless the enforcement of
the judgment be stated on a peal by the execution of a suf
ﬁcient undertaking as provi ed in this Code, in which case
the lien of the jud ent ceases.
SEC. 4458. T e docket mentioned in the last section is
a book which the Clerk keeps in his office with each page
divided into columns and headed as follows:
Judgment Debtors; Judgment Creditors; Judgment—time
of entry- Where entered in jud ent book; Appeals—when
taken; Iudgment of Appellate ourt; Satisfaction of judg
ment—when entered. f judgment be for the recovery of
money or_damages, the amoun must be stated in the docket
under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for any
other relief, a memorandum of the eneral character of the
action or of the relief granted must e stated. The names
of the defendants must be entered in alphabetical order.
Sac. 4459. The docket kept by the Clerk is open at all
times during ofﬁce hours for the inspection of the ublic,
without char e. The Clerk must arrange the severa dock
ets kept by im in such a manner as to facilitate their in
spection.
SEC. 4460. A transcript of the original docket certiﬁed
by the Clerk, may be ﬁled with the Recorder of any other
county, and from the time of the ﬁling the judgment be
comes a lien upon all the real property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution in such county, owned
by him at the time, or which he may afterwards and before
the lien expires, acquire. The lien continues for two years,
unless the judgment be previously satisﬁed, or unless the
enforcement of the judgment be stayed upon appeal, as here
inbefore provided. .
SEC. 4461. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
in the Clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisﬁed,
or uion an acknowledgment of satisfaction ﬁled with the
Cler , made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a con
veyance of real propert by the judgment creditor; or by
his endorsement on the ace, or on the margin of the record
of the 'udg'ment, or by the attorney, unless a. revocation of
his aut ority is ﬁled.
Whenever a judgment is satisﬁed in fact, otherwise than
upon an execution, the part or attorney must give such ac
knowledgment or make suc indorsement, and upon motion
the court may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfac
tion to be made without it.
SECTION 4470. The party in whose favor jud ent is
iven, may, at any time within ﬁve years after t e entry
t iereof, have a writ of execution issued for its enforcement.
SEC. 4471. The writ of execution must be issued in the
name of the people, sealed with the seal of the court, and
subscribed by the Clerk, and be directed to the Sheriff, and
it must intelligibly refer to the jud ent. stating the court,
the county where the judgment ro l is ﬁled, and if it be for
money, the amount thereof, and the amount actually due
thereon, and if made(payable in a speciﬁed kind of money,
or currency, as provi e in section 4453, the execution must
also state the kind of money or currency in which the judg
ment is payable, and must require the sheriff substantial y
as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
must require t e Sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with inter
est, out of the personal property of such debtor, and if suf
ﬁcent personal roperty cannot be found, then out of his real
property; or if t 1e 'udgment be a lien upon real property,
then out of the rea property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter;
or if the execution be issued to a county other than the one
in which the judgment was recovered, on the day when the
transcript of the docket was ﬁled in the oﬂice of the Recorder
of such county, stating such day, or any time thereafter;
2. If it be against real or personal pro erty in the hands
of the persona. representatives, heirs, evisees, legatees,
tenants, or trustees; it must require the Sheriff to satisfy the
judgment, with interest, out o such property;
3. If it be against the person of the jud ment debtor, it
must require t e Sheriff to arrest such de tor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, with
interest, or be discharged according to law
4. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in. a
speciﬁed kind of money or currency, as provi ed in section
4453, it must also require the Sheriff to satisfy the same in
the‘ kind of mone or currency in which the judgment is
made payable, an the Sheriff must refuse payment in any
other ind of money or currency; and in case of levy and
sale of the property of the judgment debtor, he must refuse
payment from any purchaser at such sale in any other kind
of money or currency than that speciﬁed in the execution.
The Sheriff collecting money or currency in the manner re
quired by this chapter, must pay to the laintiff or party
entitled to recover the same, the same kin of money or currency received by him, and in case of ne lect or refusal so
to do, he shall be liable on his ofﬁcial bon to the judgment
izreditior in three times the amount of the money so col
ecte ;
5. If it be for the delivery of the ossession of real or per
sonal property, it must require the eriff to deliverthe pos
session o the same, describing it, to the party entitled
thereto, and may at the same time require the Sheriff to
satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or proﬁts recovered by
the same judgment, out of the persona property of the per
son against whom it was rendered, and t e value of the prop
erty for which the judgment was rendered, to be speciﬁed
therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had;and if sufﬁcient
personal property cannot be found, then out of the real
property, as provided in the ﬁrst subdivision of this section.
SEC. 4472. The execution may be made returnable, at
any time not less than ten nor more than sixty days after
its receipt by the Sheriff, to the clerk with whom the judg
ment roll is ﬁled. WVhen the execution is returned, the
Clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If any real estate
be levied upon, the Clerk must record the execution and the
return thereto at large, and certify the same underhis hand
as true co ies in a book to be called the “Execution book”,
which boo must be indexed with the names of-the plaintifffs
and defendants in execution al habetically arranged, and
kept open at all times duringo ce hours for the inspection
of the public without charge. It is evidence of the contents
of the ori 'nals whenever they, or any part thereof, may be
destroye , mutilated or lost.
SEC. 4473. When the judgment is for money, or the
possession of real or personal property, the same may be
enforced by a writ of execution; and if the judgment direct
that the defendant be arrested, the execution may issue
against the person of the judgment debtor, after the return
0 an execution against his property unsatisﬁed in whole or
part; when the judgment requires the sale of pro erty, the
same may be enforced by a writ reciting such ju gment, or
the material parts thereof, and directing the proper oﬂicer
to execute the judgment by makingl the sale and applying
the proceeds in conformity therewit ; when the judgment
requires the performance of any other act than as above
designated, a certiﬁed copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom the same is rendered, or upon
the person or ofﬁcer re uired thereby or by law to obey the
same, and obedience t ereto may be enforced by the court.
SEC. 4474. In all cases other than for the recovery of
money, the 'udgment may be enforced or carried into exe
cution after t e lapse of ﬁve years from the date of its entry,
by leave of the court, upon motion, or by 'udgment for that
purpose, founded upon supplemental lea in s.
SEC. 4475. Notwithstanding the eath o a party after
the judgment, execution thereon may be issued, or it may
be enforced as follows:
1. In the case of the death of the jud ent creditor,
upon the application of his executor or a inistrator, or
successor in interest;
2. In case of the death of the judgment debtor, if the
jud ent be for the recovery of real or personal property,
or t e enforcement of a lien thereon.
SEC. 4476. Where the execution is a ainst the property
of the judgment debtor, it may be issue to the S eriff of
any county in the Territory. Where it requires the deliv
ery of real or personal pro erty, it must be issued to the Sher
iff of the county where t e property, or some part thereof,
is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to
different counties.
SEC. 4477. All goods, chattels, monies, and other prop
ert , both real and personal, or any interest therein of the
ju gment debtor, not exempt by law, and all roperty and
rights of property, seized and held under attac ment in the
action, are liable to execution. Shares and interest in any
corporation or company, and debts and credits, and all oth
er property both real and personal, or any interest in either
rea or personal property, and all other property not capable
of manual delivery, may be attached on execution in like
manner as upon writs of attachment. Gold dust must be
returned by the oﬂicer as so much money collected, at its
current value, without exposing the same to sale. Until a
levy, property is not affected by the execution.
SEC. 4478. If the property levied on be claimed by a.
third party person as his property, the Sheriff may summon
from is county six persons qualiﬁed as jurors, between the
parties, to try the validity of the claim. He must also give
notice of the claim and of the time of trial to the plaintifff,who
may appear and contest the claim before the jur . The
jury and the witnesses must be sworn by the Sheri , and if
their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the Sheriff may re
lin uish the levy, unless the judgment creditor 've him a
su cient indemnity for proceeding thereon. he fees of
the jury, the Sheriff and the witnesses must be paid by the
claimant, if the verdict be against him; otherwise _bv the
laintiff. Each party must deposit with the Sheriff, be
ore the trial, the amount of his fees and the fees of_ the
jury, and the Sheriff must pay the same to the prevailing
party.
Snc. 4479. All real and personal estate belonging to
any married woman at the time of her marriage, or to which
she subsequently becomes entitled in her own right, and
all the rents, issues and proﬁts thereof, and all compensa
tion due or owing for her ersonal services, is exempt from
execution against her hus and.
SEC. 4480. In addition to the homestead exempted by
the civil code, the following property belonging to an actual resident of the Territory, is exempt from execution, except
as herein otherwise specially provided:
. 1. Chairs, tables, desks and books, to the value of two
hundred dollars, belonging to 'udgment debtor
2. Necessary household, ta le and kitchen furniture belonging
to judgment debtor, including one sewing machine
in actual use in a family, or belonging to a woman, stoves,
stovepipe and stove furniture, beds, bedding and bedsteads,
not exceeding in value three hundred dollars; wearing ap
parel, han ing pictures, oil paintin s and drawings, drawn
or painted y any member of the amily, and family portraits
and their necessary frames, fplrovisions actually pro
vided for individual or family use su cient for three months;
two cows with their sucking calves, and two hogs with
their sucking pigs;
3. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry of a
farmer not exceeding in value the sum of three hundred
dollars; also two oxen, or two horses or two mules and their
harness, one cart or wagon, and food for such oxen, horses
or mules for one month; also a water right not to exceed
one hundred and sixty inches of water, used for the irriga
tion of lands actually cultivated by him; also all seed, grain
or vegetables actually provided, reserved on hand for the pur
pose of planting or sowing at any time within the ensuin
zcslixumonths, not exceeding in value the sum of two hundre
0 ars
4. Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan neces
sar to carr on his trade, not exceedin in value the sum
of ve hun red dollars; the notarial sea and records of a
notary public; the instruments and chest of a surgeon phy
sician, surveyor and dentist, necessary to the exercise of
their profession, with their scientiﬁc and professional libra
ries; the law professional libraries and ofﬁce furniture of
attorneys, counselors and judges, and the libraries of min
isters of the ospel;
5. The ca in or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding
in value the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars; also his sluices,
pipes, hose, Windlass, derrick, cars, pumps and tools not ex
ceeding in value two hundred dollars; also one saddle ani
mal and one pack animal, together with their saddles and
equipments belon ing to a miner actually en aged in ros
pectmrg, not excee ing in value two hundred an ﬁfty do ars;
6. wo oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their har
ness; and'one cart, wagon, dray or truck by the use of which
a cartman, drayman, truckman, huckster, peddler, hack
man, teamster or other laborer habitually earns living; and
one horse with vehicle and harness, or other equipments
used by a physician, surgeon or minister of the gospel, in
making h1s rofessional visits, with food for such oxen,
horses or mu es for one month;
7. The earnin s of the judgment debtor for his personal
services rendere at any time within thirty days next re
ceding the levy of execution, or levy of attachment, w en
it appears by the debtor's aﬂidavit or otherwise, that such
earnings are necessary for the use of his family residing in
this Territory slipported wholly or in part by his labor;
8. The shares held by a member of a homestead associa
tion dul incor orated, not exceeding in value one thou
sand do lars—i the person holding the share is not the
owner of a homestead under the laws of this Territory;
9. All monies, beneﬁts, privileges or immunities accru
ing, or in any manner growing out of any life insurance on
the life of the debtor, to an amount represented by an an
nual premium not exceedin two hundred and ﬁfty dollars;
10. All ﬁre engines, hoo s and ladders, with the carts,
trucks and carriages, hose, buckets, implements and appa
ratus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms
of any ﬁre company or department organized under any law
of this Territory;
11. All arms, uniforms and accouterments required by
law to be kept by any person; also one gun;
12. All court houses, jails, public ofﬁces and buildings,
school house, lots, grounds and personal property ap erta1n
ing thereto; the ﬁxtures, furniture, books, papers, an appur
tenances belonging and pertaining to the court house, jail,
and public offices belonging to any county of this Territory,
or for the use of schools, and all cemeteries, public squares,
parks and places, public buildings, town halls, markets,
uildings for the use of ﬁre departments and military or
ganizatlons, and the lots and grounds thereto belonging
and appertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporat
ed city, or dedicated by such town or city to health, orna
ment, or public use, or for the use of any ﬁre or military
company organized under the laws of this Territory. No article or species of property mentioned in this section is
exempt from execution issued upon a judgment recovered
for its price, or u on a mortgage thereon.
SEC. 4481. he Sheriff must execute the writ against
the property of the judgment debtor, lg levying on a. suiﬁ
cient amount of property if there be su cient; collecting or
selling the things in action, and selling the other, ro erty
and pa ing to t e plaintifff or his attorney so muc 0? the
procee s as will satisfy the judgment. Any excess in the
proceeds over the judgment and accruin costs must be re
turned to the judgment debtor, unless ot erwise directed by
the jud ent or order of the court. When there is 1nore pro
perty o the judgment debtor than is sufficient to satisfv the
udgment and accruing costs within the view of the Sheriff,
e must levy only on such part of the property as the judg
ment debtor may indicate, 1f the propert indicated be am
ply sufﬁcient to satisfy the judgment an costs.
SEC. 4482. Before the sale of the roperty ‘on execu
tion, notice thereof must be given, as fol ows:
1. In case of perishable property, b postin written
notice of the time and place of sale in t ree pub ic places
of the precinct or city where the sale is to take place, for
such time as may be reasonable, considering the character
and condition of the property;
2. In case of other personal property, by posting a. simi
lar notice in three pu lic places in the recinct or city
where the sale is to take place, for not less t an ﬁve nor more
thanten days;
3. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice.
particularly describing the property, for twenty days, in
three pubhc places of the precinct or city where the pro erty
is situated, and also where the property is to be sols,
or pubhshing a copy thereof once a vveek for the saune
period, in some newspa er published in the county, if there
e one. When the ju ent under which the roperty is
to be sold is made paya le in a speciﬁed kind ofp money or
currency, the several notices required by this section must
state the kind of money or currency in which bids may be
made at such sale, which must be the same as that speciﬁed
in the jud ment.
SEC. 44 3. An officer selling without the notice pre
scribed by the last section forfeits ﬁve hundred dollars to
the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and
a person willfully takin down or defacing the notice post
ed, if done before the sa e or the satisfaction of the judg
ment (if the judgment be satisﬁed before sale), forfeits ﬁve
hundred dollars.
SEC. 4484. All sales of property under execution must
be made at auction, to the highest bidder, between the
hours of nine in the mornin and ﬁve in the afternoon.
After sufﬁcient pro erty has geen sold to satisfy the execu
tion, no more can e sold. Neither the officer holding the
execution nor his de uty can become a urcliaser, or be in
terested in any purc ase, at such sale. hen the sale is of
personal property, capable of manual delivery, it must be
within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in
such parcels as are likely to bring the hi hest price; and
when the sale is of real property. consisting of several known
lots or parcels, they must be sold se arately, or when a por
tion of such real propert is claime by a third person, and
he requires it to be sol separatel , such portion must be
thus sold. The judgment debtor, i present at the sale, may
also direct the order in which propertv, real or personal,
shall be sold, when such property consists of several known
lots or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advan
t e separately, and the sheriff must follow such directions.
ages. 4485. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid
by him for roperty struck off to him at a sale under execu
tion, the o cer may a ain sell the property at any time to
the highest bidder, an if any loss be occasioned thereby, the
oﬂicer may recover the amount of such loss, with costs,
from the. bidder so refusing, in any court of competent juris
diction.
SEC. 4486. When a purchaser refuses to pay, the officer
may, in his discretion, thereafter reject any subsequent bid
ofsuch erson.
SEC. 487. The two preceding sections must not be con
strued to make the ofﬁcer liable for any more than the
amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser and the
amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pa .
SEC. 4488. Vt-’hen the purchaser of any persona proper
ty capable of manual delivery, pays the purchase money,
the oﬁicer making the sale must deliver to the purchaser
the property, and, if desired, execute and deliver to him a
certiﬁcate of the sale. Such certiﬁcate conveys to the pur
chaser all the right which the debtor had in such property
on the day the execution or attachment was levied.
SEC. 44.-89. When the urchaserof any personal property
not ca able of manual de ivery pays the purchase money,
the 0 cer makin the sale, must execute and deliver to the
purchaser a certi cate of sale. Such certiﬁcate conveys to
the purchaser all the right which the debtor had in such
property on the day the execution or attachment was levied.
SEC. 4490. Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser
is substituted to, and acquires all the right, title, interest
and claim of the judgment debtor thereto; and all his right, title, interest, and claim thereto at any time during any
subsisting lien thereon by attachment in the action, or by
the docketing of the judgment. VVhen the estate is less than a
leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale is absolute.
In all other cases the property is subject to redemption, as
provided in this chapter. The ofﬁcer must give to the pur
chaser a certiﬁcate of sale containing:
1. A particular description of the real property sold;
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
3. The whole price paid
4. When subject to re emstion, it must be so stated.
And when the jud ment, un er which the sale has been
made is made payagle in a s eciﬁed kind of money or cur
rency, the certiﬁcate must a so show the kind of money or
currency in which such redemption may be made, which
must be the same as that speciﬁed in the judgment. A
du licate of such certiﬁcate must be ﬁled for record by the
o cer in the office of the Recorder of the county.
SEC. 4491: Property sold subject to redemption, as pro
vided in the last section, or any art sold separately, may be
redeemed in the manner herein ter provided, by the follow
ing persons, or their successors in interest:
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in
the whole or any part of the propert ;
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on
the property sold, on some share or part thereof, subse
quent to that on which the property was sold. The persons
mentioned in the second subdivision of this section are, in
this cha ter, termed redemptioners.
SEC. 492. The judgment debtor or redemptioner may
redeem the property from the purchaser within six months
after the sa e, on paying the purchaser the amount of his
purchase, with twelve per cent thereon in addition, together
with the amount of any assessment or taxes which the pur
chaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and inter
est on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a creditor
having a prior lien to that of the redemptioner, other than
the judgment under which such purchase was made, the
amount of such lien, with interest.
SEC. 4493. If roperty be so redeemed by a redemp
tioner, another re eniptioner may, within sixty days after
the last redemption, and within six months after the sale,
again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the
sum paid on such last redemption, with four per cent t ere
on in addition, and the amount of any assessment or taxes
which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon afterthe
redemption by him, with interest on such amount, and in
addition the amount of any liens held by said last redemp
tioner prior to his own, with interest; but the judgment un
der which the property was sold need not be so paid as a
lien. The property may be again, and as often as a redemp
tioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemp
tioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, and
within six months after the sale, on paying the sum paid on
the last previous redemption, with four per cent thereon in
addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which
the last previous redemptioner paidﬁfter the redemption by
him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any liens,
other than the judgment under which the property was sold,
held by the last redemptioner previous to his own, with in
terest. VVritten notice of redemption must be given to the
Sheriff, and a duplicate ﬁled for record with the Recorder of
the county; and 1f any taxes or assessments are paid by the
redemptioner, or if he has or acquires an lien other than
that upon which the redemption was ma e, notice thereof,
must in like manner be given to the Sheriff, and ﬁled with
the Recorder; and if such notice be not ﬁled, the property
may be redeemed without paying such tax, assessment, or
lien. If no redemption be made within six months after
the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, is entitled toa con
veyance; or, if so redeemed, whenever sixty days have
elapsed, and no other redemption has been made, and notice
thereon given, the time for redemption by a redemptioner,
has expired, and the last redemptioner, or his assignee, is
entitled to a Sheriif’s deed at the expiration of six months
after the sale; but in all cases the judgment debtor shall
have the entire period of six months from the date of the sale
to redeem the property. If the judgment debtor redeem, he
must make the same payments as are re uired to effect a
redemption by a redemptioner. If the de tor redeem, the
effect of the sale is terminated, and he is restored to his es
tate. Upon a redemption by the debtor, the person to whom
the payment is made must execute and deliver to him a cer
tiﬁcate of redem tion, acknowledged and proved before an
officer authorize to take acknowledgments of conveyances
of real property. Such certiﬁcate must be ﬁled and recorded
in the oﬁice of the Recorder of the county in which the prop
erty is situated, and the Recorder must note the record
thereof in the margin of the record of the certiﬁcate of sale.
SEC. 4494. The ayments mentioned in the last two sections ma be ma e to the purchaser or redemptioner, or
for him, to t e ofﬁcer who-I made the sale. When the judg
ment under which the sale has been made is payable in a
speciﬁed kind of money or currency, payments must be
made in the same kind of money or currency, and a tender
of the money is equivalent to payment.
SEC. 4495. A redemptioner must produce to the oﬂicer
or person from whom he seeks to redeem and serve with his
notice to the sheriff;
1. A copy of the docket of the 'ud ment under which
he claims the right to redeem, certi ed y the clerk of the
court, or recorder of the county where the judgment is
499
docketed or ﬁled; or, if he redeem upon a mortgage or other
lien, a note of the record thereof, certiﬁed by the recorder;
2. A cop of any assi ment necessa to establish his
claim, veri ed by the a davit of himsel or of a subscrib
ing witness thereto
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien.
SEC. 4496. Until the expiration of the time allowed for
redemption, the court may restrain the commission of waste
on the property, by order granted with or without notice,
on the app ication of the fpurchaser or the judgment credi
tor. But it is not waste or the person in possession of the
property at the time of sale, or entitled to possession after
wards, during the period allowed for redemption, to con
tinue to use it in the same manner in which it was previ
ously used; or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry;
or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon- or to
use wood or timber on the property therefore; or for t ie re
pair of fences; or for fuel in his family, while he occupies
the property.
SEC. 4497. The (purchaser, from the time of the sale un
til a redemption, an a redemptioner, from the time of his
redem tion until another redemption, is entitled to receive,
from t e tenant in possession, the rents of the property sold,
or the value of the use and occupation thereof. But when
any rents or proﬁts have been received by the judgment
creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from the prop
erty thus sold preceding such redemption, the amount of
such rents and proﬁts shall be a credit upon the redemption
money to be paid ;and if the redemptioner or jud ent debt
or, before the expiration of the time allowed or such re
demption deman s in writing of such purchaser, or credi
tor, or his assigns, a written and veriﬁed statement of the
amounts of such rents and roﬁts thus received, the period
for redemption is extended ve days after such sworn state
ment is given by such purchaser or his assigns, to such re
dem tioner or debtor. If such purchaser or his assigns
shal , for a period of one month from and after such de
mand, fail or refuse to give such statement, such redem
tioner or debtor, may, within sixty days after said deman ,
bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction, to
compel an accounting and disclosure of such rents and prof
its, and until ﬁfteen days from and after the ﬁnal deter
mination of such action, the right of redemption is extended
to such redemptioner or debtor.
SEC. 4498. If the purchaser of real property sold on ex
ecution, or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom
in consequence of irregularities in the proceedings concern
ing the sale, or of the reversal or discharge of the judgment,
he may recover the price aid, with interest, from the judg
ment creditor. If the purc aser of property at sheriff’s sale,
or his successor in interest, fail to recover possession in con
seiljuence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the
sa e, or because the property so d was not subject to execu
tion and sale, the court having jurisdiction thereof must,
after notice and on motion of such party in interest, or his
attorney, revive the original judgment in the name of the
petitioner, for the amount paid by such purchaser at the
sale, with interest thereon from the time of payment at the
same rate that the original judgment bore; and the judg
ment so revived has the same force and effect as wou d an
original jud ent of the date of the revival, and no more.
SEC. 449 . When upon an execution_a ainst several
persons more than a due proportion of the ]11 gment is sat
isﬁed out of the proceeds of the sale of the property of one
of them, or one of them pays, without a sale, more than his
pro ortion, he may compel contribution from the others;
an when a judgment is against several, and is upon an
obligation of one of them, as security for another, and the
surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale
of his roperty or before sale, he may compel repayment
from t e principal. In such case, the person so paying or
contributing is entitled to the beneﬁt of the judgment, to
enforce contribution or repayment, if, within ten days after
his payment, he ﬁle with the clerk of the court where the
judgment was rendered, notice of his gayment and claim to
contribution or reiayment. U on a ling of such notice,
tlhe lcizlerk must ma e an entry t ereof in the margin of the
oc et.
CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY T0 THE EXECUTION.
Siacrrou BKCTIOK
4504. Debtor required to answer concern- 4508. Witness required to testify.
ing his property, when. 4509. J udge may order property to be ap
4505. Proceedings to compel a debtor to p led on execution.
appear. In what cases he may
be arrested. What bail may be
given.
4506. Any debtor of the judgment debtor
may pay the latter's creditor.
4507. Examination of debtors, of judg
ment debtor, or of those having
property belonging to him.
4510. Proceedings upon claim of another
part to property, or on denial of
nde tedness to judgment debt
or.
4511. Disobedience of orders, how pun
ished.
SECTION 4504. When an execution a ainst pro erty of
the judgment debtor or of any of several ebtors in t e same
judgment, issued to the Sheriff of the County where he re
sides, or if he do not reside in this Territory, to the Sheriff
of the County where the judgment roll is ﬁled, is returned
unsatisﬁed in whole or in part, the judgment creditor at any
time after such return is made, is entitled to an order from
the Judge of the court, requiring such judgment debtor to
appear and answer upon oath concerningbhis property, be
fore such Judge, or a referee appointed y him, at a time
and place speciﬁed in the order; but no judgment debtor
must be required to attend before a Judge or referee out of
the county in which he resides.
SEC. 4505. After the issuin of an execution against
property, and upon proof by a davit of a party or'other
wise, to the satisfaction of the court or of a Judge thereof,
that any judgment debtor has pro erty which he unjustly
refuses to appl towards the satis action of the jud ment,
such court or J>udge may, by an order, re uire the ju gment
debtor to appear at a speciﬁed time and place before such
J iidge or a referee appointed by him to answer upon oath
concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had for the application of the pro erty of the judgment
debtor toward the satisfaction of t e judgment, as are
provided upon the return of an execution. Instead of
the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor,
the Judge may upon affidavit of the judgment creditor, his
agent or attorney, if it appear to him that there is dan er of
the debtor absconding, order the Sheriff to arrest the ebtor
and bring] him before such Jud e. Upon being brought be
fore the udge, he may be or ered to enter into an under
taking, with suﬁicient surety, that he will attend from
time to time before the Judge or referee, as may be directed
during the pendency of proceedings‘ and until the ﬁnal ter
mination thereof, and wil not in the meantime dispose of any
portion of his property not exempt from execution. In de
ault of entering into such undertaking he may be commit
ted to prison.
SEC. 4506. After the issuing of an execution
property and before its return, an
judgment debtor may pay to the gheriﬂf the amount of his
debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
execution; and the SheriﬁY’s receipt is a suﬂicient discharge
for the amount so paid.
SEC. 4507. After the issuing or return of an execution
against (property of the judgment debtor or of any one of
several ebtors 111 the same judgment, or upon roof by af
ﬁdavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the udge, that
an person or corporation has money or property of such
ju e11t debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount ex
cee ing ﬁfty dollars, the Judge ma , by an order, require
such person or corporation, or any 0 cer or member there
of, to appear at a speciﬁed time and place before him, or a
referee agpointed by him, and answer concerning the same.
SEC. 4 O8. VVitnesses may be required to appear and
testify before the Judge or referee, upon any proceeding un
der this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an
issue.
SEC. 4509. The Judge or referee may order any money
or property of a judgment debtor not exempt from execu
tion, in the hands of such debtor or any otherdperson, or due
to the judgment debtor, to be applied towar s the satisfac
tion of the judgment.
SEC. 4510. If it appears that a erson or corporation, al
leged to have money or property of the jud ent debtor, or to
be indebted to him, claims an interest in t e money or rop
erty adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or udge
ma authorize, by an order made to that effect, the judgment
cre itor to institute an action against such person or corpor
ation, for the recovery of such interest or debt; and the
court or Judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other dis
position of such interest or debt, until an action can be com
menced and prosecuted to 'udgment. Such order may be
modiﬁed or vacated by the udge granting the same, or the
court in which the action is brought, at any time, upon such
terms as may be 'ust.
SEC. 4511. I any person, party, or witness disobey an
order of the referee properly made in the proceedings before
him under this chapter, he may be punished by the court or
Judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.
against
person indebted to the
SECTION 4520. There can be but one action for the recov
ery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by
mortgage upon real estate or ersonal property, which ac-.
tion must be in accordance wit the provisions of this chap
ter. In such action the court may, by its judgment, direct
a sale of the incumbered property (or so much thereof as
may be necessary) and the application of the proceeds of
the sale to the payment of the costs of the court and the ex
penses of the sale, and the amount due to the plaintifff; and
sales of real estate under judgments of foreclosure of mort
gages and liens are subject to redemption as in the case of
sales under execution; and if it a pear from the Sheriﬂ:"s re
turn that the proceeds are insu cient, and a balance still
remains due, judgment can then be docketed for such bal
ance against the defendant or defendants personally liable
for the debt, and it becomes a lien on the real estate of such
'udgment debtor, as in other cases on which execution may
e issued. No person holding a conveyance from or under
the mortgagor of the property mortgaged, or having a lien
thereon, which conveyance or lien does not appear of re
cord in the proper oﬂice at the commencement 0 the action,
need be made a party to such action; and the judgment
therein rendered, and the proceedings therein had, are as
conclusive against the party holding such unrecorded con
veyance or lien as if he had been made a party to the ac
tion. .
SEC. 4521. If there be surplus money remaining, after
Eayment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien or incum
rance, with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid
to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct
it to be deposited in court.
SEC. 4522. If the debt for which the mort age, lien or
encumbrance is held is not all due, so soon as su cient of the
property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs,
the sale must cease; and afterwards, as often as more be
comes due, for princi al or interest, the court may, on
motion, order more to e sold. But if the propert cannot
be sold in ortions, without injury to the parties, t e whole
may be or ered to be sold in the ﬁrst instance, and the en
tire debt and costs paid, there being a rebate of interest
where such rebate is proper.
SEC. 4523. A mortgage of real property shall not be
deemed a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable
the owner of the mortga e to recover ossession of the real
property without a forec osure and sa e.
SEC. 4524. When an action is brou ht for the foreclos
ure of a mortgage or lien. other than or purchase money,
an aﬂidavit that all taxes levied upon the mortga e or lien,
or upon the debt secured thereby, have been pai , must be
attached to the complaint in such action; and in case the
same is not attached at the commencement of the action,
the court in which the suit is pending, on motion of the de
fendant therein must make an order sta ing all proceedings
in such action until such afﬁdavit has been ﬁled; and it is
the duty of the court, before enterin a decree or judgment
in any such case, to require such afﬁ avit or proof.
CHAPTER II.
ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, Wssrn AND \V11.L1='UL Tnnsrsss
IN CERTAIN Cssss, on REAL PROPERTY.
Sxcrlos Sncnoﬂ
4529. Nuisance deﬁned, and actions for. 4532. Measure of damagesincertain cases
4530. Waste. actions for. under the last section.
4531. Trespass for cutting or carrying 4533. Damages in actions for forcible en
nway trees, ete., actions tor. try, ete., may be trebled.
_SEOTION 4529. Anything which is injurious to health,
or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of pro ert , so as to interfere with the comfort
able enjoyment o li e or property, is a nuisance and the
subject of an action. Such action ma be brought by any
person whose property is injuriously a ected, or whose per
sonal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the
judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well
as amages recovered.
SEC. 4530. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant or tenant in common of real roperty, commit waste
thereon, any person aggrieved by t e waste may bring an
action against him therefore, in which action there may be
judgment for treble damages.
SEC. 4531. Any person who cuts down or carries off
any wood or underwood, tree, or timber, or girdles, or other
wise injures any tree or timber on the land of another per
son, or on the street or highway in front of any person’s
house, village, or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or on the
commons or public grounds of or in an city or town, or on
the street or highway in front thereo , without lawful au
thority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to such city
or town, for‘treb1e the amount of damages which may be
assessed therefore, in a civil action, in any court having jur
isdiction.
SEC. 4532. Nothing in the last section authorizes the
recovery of more than the 'ust value of the timber taken
from uncultivated woodlan for the repair of a public high
way or brid e u on the land, or adjoining it.
SEC. 453%. gf a person recover damages for a forcible
or unlawful entriy in or upon, or detention of an ' buildin
or any cultivate real property, judgment may e entere
for three times the amount at which the actual damages are
assessed.
SECTION 4538. An action may be brought by any erson
against another who claims an estate or interest in rea ro erty adverse to him, for the purpose of determining suc a verse
claim.
SEC. 4539.
his answer an
If the defendant in such action disclaim in
interest or estate in the roperty, or suffer
judgment to e taken against him wit out answer, the
plaintifff cannot recover costs.
SEC. 4540. In an action for the recovery of real prop
erty, wliere the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time
the action was commenced, but it appears that his right has
terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict
and judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintifff
may recover dama es for withholding the property.
SEC. 4541. W en damages are c aime forwithholding
the property recovered, upon which permanent improve
ments have been made by a. defendant, or those under
whom he claims, holdin under color of title adversely to
the claim of the plainti , in good faith, the value of such
improvements must be allowed as a set-off against such
damages. SEC.
4542. Any person having a bona ﬁde claim to the
possession, title of, or interest in any real property or min
ing claim, including any ledges thereof, which is, or which
he has good reason to believe, is in the possession of another,
either by surface or under-ground holdings or workings, and
it is necessary for the ascertainment, enforcement or protec
tion of such rights or interests, that an examination or sur
vey of such property be had, and the person so in the posses
sion thereof, fails or refuses for three days after demand on
him made in writing, to permit such examination or survey
to be made, the party desiring the same may apply to the
court or the Judge thereof, whether he have an action con
cernin such property, pending in such court or not, for an
order or such examination and survey.
Such application must be made u on written petition or
statement under oath, setting out a escription of the prop
erty, interest of the party therein, that the premises are in
the possession of a party. naming him, the reason why such
survey or examination is asked, the demand made for same,
and refusal thereof.
The court or Judge must appoint a time and place for hear
ing, of which notice, with a copy of the petition, must be
served upon the adverse party, at least three days before
the hearing and one additional da for each twenty-ﬁve
miles between the place of service o notice and the hearing,
and such hearing must be had and the testimony must be
produced in the same manner as provided by section four
thousand two hundred and ninety seven (4297) for hearings
on injunctions.
If upon such hearing the court or Judge is satisﬁed either
party entitled to any relief or order, for examination or sur
vey of any property in the possession of the other, which
has by the papers in the proceedings been put in contro
versy an order must be granted for such examination. sur
vey and other privileges as the court or Judge may deem
just and the order must specify as nearly as possible what
the person in whose favor such order is granted, may do.
That thereupon, such person may have free access, with
such agents and assistants as may be allowed, to all parts of
such property, with right to remove any loose rock, debris
or other obstacle, when the same is necessary to the making
of a full inspection or survey of such property, but no such
removal must be made without the consent of the adverse
party or the order of the court or Judge permitting the
same. _
The court or Judge may also upon proper showing, with
the view of producing such evidence as may be needed to
determine the rights of the parties, allow work to be done
on such progerty, but any work so permitted must be allowed
only after t e same is particularly deﬁned and must not be
allowed in such manner as to interfere with the workings of
the adverse party, and then only when the court is satisﬁed
the adverse party is acting in bad faith and is infrin ing or
attem ting so to do, upon the rights of the party as ing to
do suc work, and when there is no other reasonable or con
venient mode for the production of the evidence necessary
to settle the rights of the arties.
The party so asking to o work upon the premises of, or
in the possession of another, must give good and sufficient
security for the payment of all damages he may do the ad
verse party by reason of such work and the court or Judge
must at every stage of the proceedin s have due regard for
the rights of all parties in interest. Act Feb. 10, 1887. In
effect June 1, 1887.]
SEC. 4543. The order must describe the property, anda
copy thereof must be served on the owner or occupant; and
thereupon such party may enter upon the property, with
necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such survey
and measurement; but if any unnecessary injury be doneto
the propert , he is liable therefore.
SEC. 45 4. The court may, by injunction, on good cause
shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to
the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mort
gage thereon; or, after a sale on execution, before a con
veyance.
SEC. 4545. When real property has been sold on exe
cution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have
succeeded to his interest, or any redemptioner, may, ‘after
his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for injury to
the property by the tenant in possession after sale, and be
fore possession is delivered under the conveyance.
SEC. 4546. An action for the recovery of real roperty
against a person in possession cannot be prejudice by any
a ienation made b such person, either before or after the
commencement o the action.
SEC. 4547. In actions respecting mining claims, proof
must be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations es
tablished and in force at the bar or diggin embracing
such claim~ and such customs, usages, or l‘6g\§:.1'»l0lIlS, when
not in coniiict with the laws of this Territory, must govern
the decision of the action.
CHAPTER IV.
POSSESSORY ACTIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS.
BBOTXON
4552. Who may settle on public domain.
4553. Claim, what to contain.
4554- Claim, how described, must be re
corded.
SICTIOH
4555. Must improve, how and when.
4556. Action ior possession, plaiiitiﬂ‘ to
prove.
SECTION 4552. Any person being a citizen of the
United States, or having in accordance with law declared
his intention to become a citizen, occupyings and settled
upon, any of the public lands of the United tates in this
Territory, for the purpose of cultivating or
same, may commence and maintain any action or interfer
ence with, or injury to, his possession of such land a ainst
any person interfering with or injuring the same;buti such
land contains mines of any of the precious metals, the pos
grazing the
session or claim of the person occupying} the same for the
purposes aforesaid must not prevent t e workin of such
mines by ersons desiring to work the same, as ull as if
no such c aim for agricultural or grazing purposes ha been
made thereon; Provided, That this chapter must not be so
construed as to allow a person, subsequent to the location of
land for agricultural or grazing purposes, to go upon such
lands for t e purpose of mining without ﬁrst paying the
owner thereof the value of any growing crops they may de
stroy; this provision does not extend to any crops planted
subsequent to their location for mining purposes; and this chapter must not be construed to authorize the maintenance
of any claim upon lands which at the commencement of any
such action, may have been selected by the United States,
and reserved for any purpose. SEC. 4553. Ever claim, to enable the holder to main
tain any action as a oresaid, must contain not more than
one hundred and sixty acres of land, to be in a compact
form, and so distinctly marked that the boundaries thereof
may be easil traced.
SEC. 455 . Every such claim must be accurately de
scribed in a written notice, which must be recorded in the
ofﬁce of the recorder of the county wherein the claim is sit
uated, in a book to be kept for that purpose, together with
an aﬂidavit of the claimant setting forth: '
First. That such claim does not embrace more than one
hundred and sixty acres of land;
Second. That he holds no other claim under the provis
ions of this chapter
Third. That to the best of his information and belief, no
part of said land is claimed under any existing adverse title.
SEC. 4555. Within ninety days after the date of such
record, said claimant must improve the land so recorded,
unless the same has been previously improved by him, or
some one through whom he claims, by uttin such im
provements thereon as partake of the realty to t e value of
two hundred dollars, and must continue to occupy and cul
tivate or graze _the same or some portion thereof, either in
person or _by _his agent or ein_ploye, and no person is enti
tled to maintain any such action unless he has complied
with all the rovisions of this chapter.
SE9. _-455 . In any action for the possession of, ‘or for
any injury done to, a lot or parcel of land, situated in any
city, town, or village on the public lands, the plaintifff must
be required to rove either an actual enclosure of the whole
lot claimed by im, or the erection of a dwellin house or
other substantial building, on some part thereo , by him
self or some person through whom he claims, and roof of
such building, with or without enclosure, is su cient to
hold such lot or parcel to the bounds thereof, as indicated
by the lat of such city, town, or villa e, if there be one,
and if t ere be no such plat, then to hold the same, with its
full width and extent from and including such building to
the nearest adjacent street, where the intervening space
has not been previously claimed by adverse possession.
SECTION 4560. When several co-tenants hold and are
in possession of real propert as parceners, joint tenants or
tenants in common, in whicii one or more of them have an
estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years, an ac
tion may be brought b one or more of such persons for a.
partition thereof, accor ing to the respective rights of the
persons interested therein, and for a sale of such property,
or a part thereof, if it ap ear that a partition cannot be
made without great preju ice to the owners.
SEC. 4:561. The lnterests of all persons in the pro erty,
whether such persons be known or unknown, must e set
forth in the complaint Isipeciﬁcally and particularly, as far
as known to the plainti ; and if one or more of the parties,
or the share or quantity of interest of any one of the parties,
be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent,
or the ownershi of the inheritance depend upon an execu
tory devise, or t e remainder be a. contingent remainder, so
that such parties cannot be named, that fact must be set
forth in the com laint.
_ SEO. _4562. o person having a conveyance of or claim
ingalien on the roperty, or o some part of it, need be
made a party to t e action, unless such conveyance or lien
ap ear of record.
EC. 4563. Immediately after ﬁling the com laint in
the District Court, the plaintifff must ﬁle with the ecorder
of the county, or of the several counties in which the prop
erty is situated, either a copy of such complaint or a notice
of th_e penctlency (1)5 the act1i1on,bcontaifnii}ilg the names (pf tlie
parties so ar as nown, t e o ject o t e action, an a e
scription of the property to be affected thereby. From
the time of the ﬁling it shall be deemed notice to all per
sons.
SEC. 4564. The summons must be directed to all the
joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having
any interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judg
ment, or otherwise upon the property, or upon any articu
la; p<1)1rtion thelreof; and generally, go all persons un nown,
w o ave or c aim any interest in t e ropert .
SEC. 4565. If a party having a slgare or IIll)6l‘6St is un
known, or any one of the known parties reside out of the
Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made
to) appear bykaiﬁdavit, the %l1l'Il1Ill())lIlS may be servelcll on such
a sent or un nown arty y u ication, as in ot er cases.
VVhen publication ils) made, t e summons, as published,
mlusthbe alccom aniedfbyl a brief description of the property
w ic is tie su 'ect o t e action.
SEC. 4566. he defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a copy of the complaint, or
who have appeared without such service, must set forth in
their anséwclslrs, fully and particularly, thﬁ origin, nature, (élllld
extent o t eir respective interest in t e property, an if
such defendants claim alien on the property by mortgage,
judgment or otherwise, they must state the ori inal amount
glnd dalte if thel same, 8.1111111 tl_t1)e sum remaining ue tlhereon;
so w et er t e same as een secure in any ot er way
or not; and if secured, the nature and extent of such secur
ity, or they are deemed to have waived their right to such
ien.
SEC. 4567. The rights of the several parties, laintiif as
well as defendant, may be put in issue, tried and etermined
ipl Sl%1(13;lll action Land wlhten a dsaﬁle of thp pI'61'll11lS8S is l%6C€‘SS3.l‘y,
t e i e must e asce aine y proo to t e satis action of
the court, before the judgment of sale can be niade- and
whermla 1s{ervice fof the <l:)omplaint (1118,? bleen mlade tbyh pult>)lica
tion, i e proo must e require o t e rig t o t e a sent
or unknown arties before such judgment is rendered except
that where t ere are several unknown persons havin an
interest in the property, their ri hts may be considered to
gether in the action, and not as etween themselves.
SEC. 4568. Whenever from any cause it is, in the opin
ion of the court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to
make a complete partition in the ﬁrst instance, amon all
the parties in interest, the court may ﬁrst ascertain de
termine the sliares or interest respectively held by the orig
inal co-tenants, and thereupon adjudge and cause a parti
tion to be made as if such original co-tenants were the par
ties, and sole parties, in interest, and the only parties to the
action, and thereafter may proceed in like manner to ad
judge and make partition separatel of each share or por
tion so ascertained and allotted, as he
tween those claiming
under the original tenant to whom the same shall have
been so set apart, or may allow them to remain tenants in
common thereof as they may desire.
SEC. 4569. If it appears to the court, by the certiﬁcate
of the County Recorder or Clerk, or by the sworn or veriﬁed
statement of any erson who may have examined or searched
the records that t ere are outstanding liens or encumbrances
of record upon such real (property, or any part or portion
thereof, which existed an were of record at the time of the
commencment of the action, and the persons holding such
liens are not made parties to the action, the court must
either order such persons to be made parties to the action,
by an amendment or sup lemental com laint, or appoint a
referee to ascertain whet er or not such iens or incumbran
ces have been (paid, or if not paid, what amount remains
due thereon, an their order among the liens or incumbran
ces severall held by such persons and the parties to the ac
tion, and w ether the amount remaining due thereon has
been secured in any manner, and if secured, the nature and
extent of the security.
SEC. 457 O. The plaintifff must cause a notice to be
served, a reasonable time previous to the da for appear
ance before the referee appointed as provide in the last section, on each person having outstanding liens of record,
who is not a party to the action, to appear before the referee
at a speciﬁed time and place, to make proof by his own afﬁ
davit or otherwise, of the amount due or to become due,
contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person be
absent, or his residence be unknown, service may be made
by plublication or notice, to his agents, under the direction
of t e court, in such manner as may be roper. The report
of the referee thereon must be made to t e court, and must
be conﬁrmed, modiﬁed, or set aside, and a new reference or
dered, as the justice of the case may require.
SEC. 4571. If it be alleged in the complaint and estab
lished by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without
such allegation in the complamt, to the satisfaction of the
court, that the property, or any part of it, is so situated that
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise,
upon the re uisite proofs being made, it must order a par
tition, accor ing to the respective rights of the parties, as
ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees there
for; and must designate the portion to remain undivided
for the owners whose interests remain unknown, or are not
ascertained.
SEC. 4572. In making the partition the referees must
divide the property and a ot the several portions thereof to
the res ective parties, quality and quantity relatively con
sidere , according to the respective rights of the parties as
determined by the court, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, designating the several portions by proper land
marks, and may employ a surveyor, with the necessary as
sistants, to aid them.
SEC. 4573. The referees must make a report of their
proceedings, specifyin the mannerin which they executed
their trust, and descri ing the plroperty divided, and the
shares allotted to each party, wit a particular description
of each share.
SEC. 4574. The court may conﬁrm, change, modifyorset
aside there ort, and if necessar ,appoint new referees. U on
the report eing conﬁrmed, ju gment must be rendered t at
such partition be effectual forever, which judgment is bind
ing and conclusive:
1. On all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any inter
est in the property divided, or any part thereof, as owners
in fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to
the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such prop
erty, or of any part thereof, after the determination of a
‘particular estate therein, and who by any contingency may
e entitled to a beneﬁcial interest in the property, or who
have an interest in any undivided share thereof, as tenants
for years or for life;
2. On all persons interested in the property, who may be
unknown. to whom notice has been given of the action for
partition by publication;
3. On a l other ersons claiming from such parties or
ersons or either 0 them. And no jud ent is invalidated
y reason of the death of any party be ore ﬁnal jud ment
or decree; but such judgment or decree is as cone usive
against the heirs, legal representatives, or assigns of such
decedent, as if it had been entered before his death.
SEC. 4575. The judgment does not affect tenants for
years less than ten to the whole of the property which is the
subject of the partition. _
SEC. 4576. The expenses of the referees, including those
of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, must be
ascertained and allowed by the court and the amount
thereof, together with the fees allowed by the court, in its
discretion, to the referees, must be a ortioned among the
different arties to the action, equita y.
SEC. 4 77. When a lien is on an undivided interest or
estate of any of the parties, such lien, if apartitionbemade,
shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share assigned to
such party; but such share must ﬁrst be charged with its
just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to
such lien.
SEC. 4578. VVhen a part of the property only is ordered
to be sold, if there be an estate for life or years, in an undi
vided share of the whole property, such estate may be set
off in any art of the property not ordered to be sold.
SEC. 4579. The roceeds of the sale of incumbered
pro erty must be app ied under the direction of the court
as ollows:
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the
action; '
2. To pay the costs of the reference;
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in.
their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and to
become due;the amount due to be veriﬁed by aﬂidavit at
the time of pa ment;
4. The resi ue among the owners of the property sold,
accordin to their respective shares therein.
SEC. 4 80. Whenever any party to an action who holds
a lien upon the property, or an part thereof, has other se
curities for the payment of t e amount of such lien, the
court may, in its discretion, order such securities to be ex
hausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may
order a just reduction to be made from the amount of the
lien on the property on account thereof.
SEC. 4581. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken
by the referees, or any part thereof, must be distributed by
them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so
directs. But in case no direction be given, all of such pro
ceeds and securities must be paid into court or deposited
therein, or as directed by the court.
SEC. 4582. When the proceeds of the sale of any share
or parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action,
an who are known, are aid into court, the action may be
continued as between suc parties for the determination of
their respective claims thereto, which must be ascertained
and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken
in court or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and
the court may, if necessary, require such parties to present
the facts or law in controversy, by pleadings as in an orig
inal action.
SEC. 4588. All sales of real roperty made by referees,
under this chapter, must be ma e at public auction to the
highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner required
for the sale of real propert on execution. The notice must
state the terms of sale, an if the property or any art of it
is to be subject to a prior estate, charge or lien. t at must
be stated in the notice.
SEC. 4584. The court must, in the order for sale, direct
the terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase
money of any portion of the premises of which it may di
rect a sale on credit, and for that portion of which the pur
chase money is required by the provisions hereiiiafter con
tained, to be invested for the beneﬁt of unknown owners,
infants or parties out of the Territor .
SEC. 4585. The referees may take separate mortgages
and other securities for the whole or convenient portions of
the purchase money, of such arts of the pro ert as are
directed by the court to be sold) on credit for t e s ares of
any known owner of full age, in the name of such owner;
and for the shares of an infant in the name of the guardian
of such infant; and for other shares in the name of the
Clerk of the Court and his successors in office. _
SEC. 4586. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or
years, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to receive such
sum as ma be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such
estate, an which the Igerson so entitled may consent to
accept instead thereof, y an instrument in writin ﬁled
with the Clerk of the Court. Upon the ﬁling of suc con
sent, the Clerk must enter the same in the minutes of the
court.
Sac. 4587. If such consent be not given, ﬁled and en
tered as provided in the last section, at or before a judg
ment of sale is rendered, the court must ascertain and de
termine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after
deducting expenses, will be a just and reasonable sum to be
allowed on account of such estate, and must order the same
to be paid to such party, or deposited in court for him, as
the case ma re uire.
SEC. 458 . f the persons entitled to such estate for life
or years be unknown, the court must provide for the pro
tection of their rights in the same manner as far as may be,
as if the were known and had ap eared.
SEC. 589. In all cases of sa es when it a pears that
any person has a vested or contingent future rig t or estate
in any of the propert sold, the court must ascertain and
settle the proportiona value of such contingent or vested
right or estate, and must direct such proportion of the pro
ceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or paid over, in
such manner as to protect the rights and interests of the
parties.
SEC. 4590. In all cases of sales of property the terms
must be made known at the time; and if the premises con
lsist of distinct farms or lots, they must be sold separate
y.
SEC. 4591. Neither of the referees, nor any person for
the beneﬁt of either of them, can be interested in any pur
chase; nor can a guardian of an infant party be interested
in the purchase of any real property bein the subject of
the action, except for the beneﬁt of the in ant. Al sales
contrary to the provisions of this section are void.
SEC. 4592. After completing a sale of the property, or
any part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees must report
the same to the court with a description of the different par
cels of land sold to each purchaser; the name of the pur
chaser; the price aid or secured- the terms and conditions
of the sale, and t e securities, i an , taken. The report
must be ﬁled in the oﬂice of the Cler .
SEC. 4593. If the sale be conﬁrmed by the court, an or
der must be entered directing the referees to execute con
veyances and take securities pursuant to such sale, which
they are hereby authorized to do. Such order may also
give directions to them respecting the disposition of the pro
ceeds of the sale.
SEC. 4594. When a party entitled to a share of the
propert , or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid
out of t ie sale, becomes a urchaser, the referees may take
liishreceipt for so much of t e proceeds of the sale as belongs
0 im.
SEC. 4595. The conveyances must be recordedin the
county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar
agiiinst all persons interested in the property in any way,
w 0 shall have been named as parties in the action, and
against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if
the summons was served by publication, and against all
persons claiming under them, or either of them, and against
all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at the coni
mencement of the action.
SEC. 4596. When there are proceeds of sale belonging
to an unknown owner, or to a person without the Territory,
who has no legal representative within it the same must be
invested in securities at interest for the beneﬁt of the per
sons entitled thereto.
SEC. 4597. When the security of the proceeds of sale is
taken, or when an instrument of any such proceeds is made
it must be done, except as herein otherwise provided, in
the name of the Recorder of the county where the apers
are ﬁled, and his successors in oﬂice, who must ho d the
same for the use and beneﬁt of the parties interested, subject
to the order of the court.
SEC. 4598. VVhen security is taken by the referees on a
sale, and the parties interested in such security by an in
strument in Writing, under their hands, delivered to the ref
eree, agree upon the shares and pro ortions to which they
are respectively entitled, or when s ares and Eroportions
have been £1-eviously adjudged by the court, suc securities
must be ta en in the names of and payable to the parties
respectively entitled thereto, and must e delivered to such
parties upon their recei t therefore. Such a reement and
receipt must be returne and ﬁled with the lerk.
SEC. 4599. The Recorder in whose name a security is
taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his succes
sors in oiﬁce, must receive the interest and princi al as it
becomes due, and apply and invest the same as t e court
may direct; and must deposit with the Count Treasurer all
securities taken and keep an account in a ook provided
and kept for that purpose in the Recorder’s ofﬁce, free for
insplection by all persons, of investments in monies received
by im thereon, and the disposition thereof.
SEC. 4600. VVhen it appears that artition cannot be
made equal between the parties, accor ing to their respec
tive rights, wtihout prejudice to the rights and interests of
some of them, and a partition be ordered, the court may ad
judge compensation to be made by one party to another, on
account of the inequality; but such compensation shall not
be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by an infant; unless it ap ears that such infant has person
a property suﬂicient for t at purpose, and that his mterest
wi l be promoted thereby. And ID. all cases the court has
power to make compensatory adjustment between the re
spective parties according to the ordinary principles of
e uity.
so. 4601. When the share of an infant is sold, the
proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee making the
sale to his general guardian, or the special guardian appoint
ed for him in the action, upon iving the security required
by law or directed by order of t e court.
SEC. 4602. The guardian who may be entitled to the
custody and management of the estate of an insane person
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, whose interest in real pro erty has been sold, ma
receive in behalf of such person, is share of the procee s
of such real property from the referees on executing, with
suﬂicient sureties, an undertakin a proved by a Judge of
the court, that he will faithfully so arge the trust reposed
in him, and will render a true and just account to the per
son entitled or to his legal representative.
SEC. 4603. The general guardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custod and mana ement of the
estate of an insane person, or ot er person a judged incap
able of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real
estate held in joint tenanc , or in common, or in any other
manner so as to authorize his being made a party to an ac
tion for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition
without action, and agree upon the share to be set-off to
such infant or other person entitled and may execute a re
lease in his behalf to the owners of the shares of the parts
to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order
of the court.
SEC. 4604. The costs of partition, including reasonable
counsel fees, expended by the plaintifff or either of the de
fendants, for the common beneﬁt, fees of referees, and
other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respect
ively entitled to share in the lands divided, 1l'1 pro ortion to
their respective interests therein, and may be 1110 uded and
speciﬁed in the judgment. In that case they shall be lien
on the several shares, and the jud ment may be enforced
by execution against such shares, and against other property
held b the respective parties. When, however, litigation
arises etween some of the parties only, the court may re
quire the expense of such litigation to e paid by the par
ties thereto, or any of them.
SEC. 4605. The court, with the consent of the parties,
may appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in
the proceedings under the provisions of this chapter; and
the single referee, when thus appointed, has all the powers
and may perform all the duties required of the three refer
ees.
SEC. 4606. If it ap ears to the court that it was neces
sary to have made an a stract of the title to the property
to be partitioned, and such abstract shall have been pro
cured by the plaintifff, or if the plaintifff shall have failed to
have the same made before the commencement of the action.
and any one of the defendants shall have had such abstract
afterwards made, the cost of the abstract, with interest
thereon from the time the same is subject to the inspection
pf th; respective parties to the action, must be allowed and
axe .
CHAPTER VI.
ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION on AN OFFICE on FRANCHISec.
SIGTION I SECTION
4611. Certain writ abolished. 4615. When rendered in favor of appli
4612. Action may be brought against any cant.
party usnrplng, etc., any oﬂlce or 4616.
Damages may be recovered by suc
franchise.
cessful applicant.
4613. Name of person entitled to oﬂice 4617. When several persons claim the
may be set forth inthe com laint. same oﬂice their rights may be
If fees have been received y the determined by a single action.
usurper, he may be arrested. 4618. If defendant found guilty, what
4614. J u ent may determine the rights
Edgmentto be rendered against
of oth incumbent and claimant. m.
Undertaking.
4619.
SECTION 4611. The writ of scire facias is abolished.
SEC. 4612. An action may be brought in the name of
the people of the Territory against any person who usurps,
intrudes into, holds or exercises any ofﬁce or franchise, real
or pretended, within this Territory, without authority of
law. Such action shall be brought by the District Attor
ney of the proper county, when the oﬂ'ice or franchise re
lates to a county, precinct, or city; and when such oﬂice or
franchise relates to the Territory, bythe Attorney General;
and it shall be the duty of the proper officer, upon proper
showing, to bring such action whenever he has reason to
believe that an such office or franchise has been usur ed,
intruded into, eld or exercised without authorit of aw.
Any person rightfully entitled to an oﬁice or franc ise may
bring an action in his own name a ainst the person who
has usurped, intruded into, or who %lOldS or exercises the
same.
SEC. 4613. Whenever such action is brought in the
name of the people of the Territory, the District Attorney
at the request of the person entitled to the ofﬁce or franchise,
in addition to the cause of action in behalf of the people of
the Territory, may set forth the name ofthe person so enti
tled, with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case,
upon proof by afﬁdavit that the defendant has received fees
or emoluments belonging to the ofﬁce, and by means of
usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by the Judge,
or court wherein the case is pending, for the arrest of such
defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he ma
be arrested and held to bail, in the same manner and wit
the same effect, and subject to the same rights, and liabili
ties. as in other civil actions where the defendant is subject
to arrest.
SEC. 4614. In ever such case judgment may be ren
dered u on the right o the defendant, and also u on the
right 0 the party so alleged to be entitled, or on y upon
the right of the defendant as the form of the action and
justice may require.
SEC. 4615. If the judgment be rendered upon the right
of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in
favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after takin the
oath of oﬂice and executing such official bond as may e re
uired by law, to take upon himself the execution of the of
ce.
SEC. 4616. If judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person,
he may recover by action, the damages which he ma have
sustained by reason of the usurpation of the ofﬁce y the
defendant.
SEC. 4617. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same oﬁice or franchise, one action may be brought
against all such persons in order to try their respective
rights to such ofﬁce or franchise.
SI-:0. 4618. When a defendant against whom such ac
tion has been brought is ad'ud ed guilty of usurpin or in
truding into or unlawfully olfin any oﬂioe, franc ise or
privilege, judgment must be ren ered that such defendant
e excluded from the ofﬁce, franchise or privilege, and that
he pay the costs of the action. The court may also in its
discretion, in actions to which the people of the Territory
are a party, impose upon the defendant aﬁne not exceeding
ﬁve thousand dollars, which ﬁne, when collected, must be
paid into the treasury of the Territory.
SEC. 4619. When the action is brought u on the in
formation or application of a private party, the istrict At
torney may require such part to enter into an undertaking,
with sureties to be a proved y the said officer, conditioned
that such party or tlle sureties will pay an jud ent for
costs or damages recovered against the plainti , and all
thgcosts and expenses incurred in the prosecution of the
ac ion.
SECTION 4629. The process, provisional remedies, su plementary,
proceedings, and the rules of practice and leag
ing in the robate Court, when the debt or sum claime does
not exceed three hundred dollars, shall be the same as in
Justices’ Courts; in all other cases within its civil jurisdiction,
the sa.ine as in the District Courts, except when other pro
vision is made by this Code.
SECTION 4639. Actions in Justices’ Courts must be com
menced, and subject to the right to change the place of trial
(as in this chapter provided), must be tried:
1. If there is no Justice’s Court for the precinct or city in
which the defendant resides, in any city or precinct of the
county in which he resides;
2. VVhen two or more ersons are jointly, or jointly and
severally bound in any delit or contract, or otherwise jointly
liable in the same action, and reside in different precincts
or different cities of the same county, or in different coun
ties; in the precinct or city in which any of the persons lia
ble may reside;
3. In cases of injury to the person or property; in the
precinct or city where the injury was committed, or where
the defendant resides;
4. If for the recovery of personal property, or the value
thereof, or damages for taking or detaining the same- in the
precinct or city m which the property may be foun , or in
whigh the property was taken, or in which the defendant
resi es;
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county;
in any precinct or city wherein he may be found;
6. I hen the defendant is a non—residei1t of the Territory
in any recinct or city in the Territory;
7. hen a person has contracted to perform an obliga
tion at a particular place and resides in another county, pre
cinct or city; in the precinct or city in which such obliga
tion is to be performe or in which he resides;
8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead with
out summons; in any precinct or city in the Territory;
9. In all other cases; in the precinct or city in which the
defendant resides.
SEC. 4640. The court may at any time before the trial,
on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the Justice be
fore whom the action is pending, by affidavit of either par
ty, that such Justice is a material witness for either party;
2. VVhen either party makes and ﬁles an affidavit that he
believes that he cannot have afair and impartial trial before
such Justice by reason of the interest, prejudice or bias of
the Justice;
3. When, from any cause, the Justice is disqualiﬁed from
acting. 520
Sac. 4641. The place of trial cannot be changed in Jus
tice’s Court on motion of the same party, more than once,
upon any or all of the grounds speciﬁed in the ﬁrst and sec
ond subdivisions of the receding section.
SEC. 4642. When t e court orders the place of trial to
be changed, the action must be transferred for trial to a
court the parties agree upon; and if they do not agree, then
to the Probate Court or to another Justice’s Court in the
same county.
Sac. 4643. After an order has been made transferrin
the_action for trial to another court, the following procee ings
must be had;
1. The Justice ordering the transfer must immediately
transmit to the Clerk of the Probate Court, or to the Justice
to whom it is transferred, on payment of his costs by the
party a plying, all the papers in the action, together with
a certi ed transcript from his docket of the proceedings
therein;
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the Clerk or
Justice must issue a notice stating when and where the trial
will take lace, which must be served upon the parties at
least one ay before the time ﬁxed for trial.
SEC. 4644. From the time the order changing the place
of trial is made, the court to which the action IS thereby
transferred has the same jurisdiction over it as though it had
been commenced in such court.
SEC. 4645. The parties to an action in a Probate or
J ustice’s Court cannot give evidence upon any question
which involves the title or possession of real property, nor
can any issue presenting such question be trie by such
court; and if it ap ear from the answer of the defendant,
veriﬁed by his oat , or that of his agent or attorne , that
the determination of the action will necessarily invo ve the
%uestion of title or possession to real roperty, the Probate
ourt or Justice must suspend all furt er proceedings in the
action and certify the pleadin , and, if any of the lead
ings are oral, a transcript of t e same, from his doc et to
the Clerk of the District Court of the county; and from the
time of ﬁling such pleadings or transcript with the Clerk,
the District Court has over the action the same 'urisdiction
as if it had been commenced therein; Provide , That this section shall not be construed to extend to or include actions
of Forcible Entry, Forcible Detainer or Unlawful Detainer.
CHAPTER II.
l\IA.\*xER or COMMENCING ACTIONS IN J Usrioss’ Covars.
Bsowiox \
4650. Actions, how commenced.
4851. Summons may issue within a year.
4652. Defendant may waive summons. 4658. Same.
4653. Parties may appear in person or by -L650.
attorney.
46-"Hi. When guardian necessary, how ap- 4660.
pointed.
4655. Summons. how issued, directed, -L661.
and what to contain.
SECTION
4656. Time for appearance of defendant
4657. Alias summons.
Summons, limitation upon time of
Summons, by whom and how served
service.
and returned.
Hour for appearance.
SECTION 4650. An action in a Justice’s Court is commenced by ﬁling a complaint.
SEC. 465 1. The court must indorse on the complaint the
date upon which it was ﬁled, and at any time within one
year thereafter the plaintifff may have summons issued.
SEC. 4652. At any time after the complaint is ﬁled the de
fendant may, in writing, or by appearing and pleading,
waive the issuin of summons.
- SEO. 4653. arties in a Justice’s Court may appear and
act in erson or by attorney; and any person, except the
.
oﬁicer y whom the summons or jury process was served,
ma act as attorne .
She. 4654. Wlien an infant, insane, or incompetent per
son is a party, he must appear either by his general
ardian, if he have one, or by a guardian ad litem appointed
5? the Justice. When a guardian ad litem is appointed by
the Justice, he must be appointed as follows:
1. If the infant, insane, or incompetent person, be
plaintiﬂ’, the appointment must be made before the summons
is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the
age of fourteen years; if under that age, or if insane or in
competent, upon the application of a relative or friend;
2. If the infant, insane or incompetent person, be de
fendant, the appointment must be made at the time the
summons is returned, or before the answer, upon the ap
plication of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen 'ears_
and ap ly at or before the summons is returned; if e be
under t e age of fourteen, or be insane or incompetent. or
neglect so to apply, then upon the application of a relative
or ﬁiend, or any other party to the action, or by the justice
on is own motion.
SEC. 4655. The summons must be directed to the de
fendant, signed b the Justice, and must contain:
1. The title of the court, the name of the county, the name
of the precinct or city, in which the action is commenced,
and the names of the parties thereto;
2. A suiﬁcient statement of the cause of action, in general
terms, to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim
against him;
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer at
a time speciﬁed in the summons; '
4. In an action arising on a contract, for the recover ~ of
money or damages only, a notice that unless the defen ant
so appears and answers, the plaintiﬂf will take judgment for
the sum claimed by him (stating it);
5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant
so ap ears and answers, the laintiff will apply to the
court or the relief demanded. f the plaintifff has appeared
bly attorney, the name of the attorney must be indorsed on
t e summons.
SEC. 4656. The time speciﬁed in the summons for the
appearance of the defendant must be as follows:
f 1.hIf Ettlll order of arrest is endorsed upon the summons,
ort wit 2. In all other cases, not less than three nor more than
twenty days from its date.
S110. 4657. If the summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of the defendants, the Justice, upon
the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias summons, in
the same form as the original, except that he may ﬁx the
exceed ninety a s from its date.
SEC. 4658. T e Justice may within a year from the
date of the ﬁling of the complaint, issue as many alias sum
mons as may be demanded y the plaintifff.
SEC. 4659. The summons cannot be served out of the
county in which the action is brought, exce t where the action is brought upon a joint contract, or o ligation of two
or more persons who reside in different counties, and the
summons has been served u on the defendant, resident of
the county in which case t e summons may be served
upon the other defendants out of the county; and except, al
so, when an action is brought against a party who has con
tracted in writing to perform an obligation at a particular
place, and resides in a different county, in which case sum
mons may be served in the county where he resides. When
the defendant resides in the county, the summons cannot
be served within two days of the time ﬁxed for the appear
ance of the defendant; when he resides out of the county,
and the summons is served out of the count , the summons
cannot be served within twenty days of suc time.
SEC. 4660. The summons 1n the cases mentioned in the
preceding section ma be served by a sheriff or constable of
any of the counties o this Territory; Provided, That when
a summons issued by a Justice of the Peace, is to be served
out of the county in which it was issued, the summons shall
have attached to it a certiﬁcate under seal by the Clerk of
the District Court of such county, to the effect that the per
son issuin the same was an acting Justice of the Peace at
the date o the summons; or the summons may be served by
any male resident, over the age of twenty-one years, not a
arty to the suit, within the county where the action is
rought and must be served and returned as provided in ac
tions commenced in the District Court; or it may be served
by publication and the sections of this Code rovidin for
the publication of summons issued out of the Igistrict Court
are applicable to the Probate and Justices’ Courts, the nec
essary changes and substitutions bein made therein.
SEC. 466 . The parties are entitle to one hour in which
to appear after the time ﬁxed in the summons, but are not
boun to remain lon er than the time unless both parties
have appeared, and t e Justice being present, is engaged in
the trial of another cause.
CHAPTER III.
Pmmnrnos IN J Us'r1cEs’ COURTS.
Bncwrou 81101102!
4666. Form ofpleadings. 4672. When plaintifff may demur to au
4667. Pleadinge. awer.
4668. Complaint deﬁned. 4673. Proceedings on demurrer.
4669. When demurrer to complaint may 4674. Amendment of pleadings.
be put in. 4675. Answer or demurrer to amended
4670. Answer.
4671. It the defendant omits to set up
counterclaim.
SECTION 4666. Pleadin s in Justices’ Courts:
1. Are not required to e in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended;
pleadings .
2. May, exce t the complaint, be oral or in writin ; _
3. Need not lie veriﬁed, unless otherwise provi ed in
this Code;
4. If in writing, must be ﬁled with the J ustice; _
5. If oral, and entry of their substance must be made in
the docket.
SEC. 4667. The leadings are:
1. The complaint y the plaintifff;
2. The demurrer to the com laint;
3. The answer by the defen ant;
4. The demurrer to the answer. _
SEC. 4668. The com laint in these courts is a concise
statement, in writing, 0 the facts constituting the plain
tiﬂ:"s cause of action; or a cop of the account, note, bill,
bond, or instrument upon whic the action is based.
SEC. 4669. The defendant may, at any time before an
swering, demur to the complaint.
SEC. 4670. The answer may contain a denial of any or
all of the material facts stated in the complaint, which the
defendant believes to be untrue; also a statement in a plain
and direct manner, of any other facts constituting a de
fense or counterclaim, upon which an action might be
brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in that court.
SEC. 4671. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the last section, neitlier he
nor his assi ee can afterwards maintain an action against
the plainti therefore. _
SEC. 4672. VVlien the answer contains new matter m
avoidance, or constituting a defense or a counterclaim. the
plaintifff may, at any time before the trial, demur to the
same for insuﬁiciency, stating therein the grounds of such
demurrer.
SEC. 4673. The proceedings on demurrer are as follows:
1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the
plaintifff may, within such time, not exceeding two days, as
the court allows, amend his complaint;
2. If the demurrer to a. complaint is overruled, the de
fendant may answer forthwith;
If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the defend
ant may amend his answer within such time, not exceedmg
two days, as the court may allow: _
4. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled, the action
must proceed as if no demurrer had been interposed.
SEC. 4674. Either party may, at any time before the
conclusion of the trial, amend any pleading; but if the
amendment is made after the issue, and it appears to the
satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is
necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment must be anted. The court
may also, in its discretion, when an a journment will, by
the amendment, be rendered necessary, require as a condi
tion to the allowance of such amendment, made after issue
joined, the payment of costs to the adverse part . to be
ﬁxed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars. _T ie court
may also, on such terms as may be just, and on payment of
costs, relieve a party from a judgment by defaiilt taken
against him by his mistake, inadvertence. su _rise, or ex
cusable neglect; but the application for such re ief must be
made within ten days after the entry of the judgment, and
upon an affidavit showing good cause therefore.
SEC. 4675. When a pleading i_s amended, the adverse
party may answer or demur to it within such time, not exceeding two days, as the court may allow.
Sacrxou
4680.
4881.
4682.
4683.
4684.
CHAPTER IV.
PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN J Usricns’ CoUR'rs.
Order for arrest, and arrest of de
fondant.
Order executed in any part of the
Territory.
Affidavit and undertaking for order
of arrest.
A defendant arrested must be taken
before the Justice or Judge im
mediately.
The ofﬂcer must give notice to the
plaintiﬂ of arrest.
SECTION
-1885 .
4686.
4687.
4688.
-1689.
4690.
Thetoﬂicer must detain the defend
an .
Writ of attachment shall issue upon
aﬂidavit.
Undertaking on attachmentmustbe
required.
Writ of attachment, substance of.
Oﬂicer may take an undertaking
instead of levying
Certain provisions apply to all at
tachments in Justices’ Courts.
How claim and delivery enforced.
SECTION 4680. An order to arrest the defendant may be
indorsed on a summons issued out of a Justice’s Court, and
the defendant may be arrested thereon by the Sheriff or
Constable, at the time of serving the summons, and brought
before the Justice, and there detained until duly discharged,
in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on
a cause of action arising upon contract when the defendant
is about to depart from the Territory, with intent to defraud
his creditors;
2. In an action for a ﬁne or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted
to his own use by one who received it in a ﬁduciary capa
cit 35.’,
When the defendant has been
tracting the debt or incurring the o
action 1S brought
4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or dis
osed of his property, or is about to do so, with intent to
defraud his creditors. But no female can be arrested in any
action.
SEC. 4681. In cases under the ﬁrst subdivision of the
last section, or when the defendant is about to depart from
the Territory, the order of arrest may be executed, and the
defendant arrested in any part of the Territory.
SEC. 4682. Before an order for an arrest can be made,
the party _applyin must prove to the satisfaction of the
Justice by the aﬂi avit of himself, or some other person, the
facts u on which the agplication is founded. The plaintifff
must so execute and e a written undertaking in the sum
of three hundred dollars, with sufﬁcient sureties, to the ef
fect that the laintiif will ay all costs that may be adjudged
to the defen ant, and all amages which he may sustain-by
reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or without
suﬂicient cause, not exceeding the sum speciﬁed in the un
dertaking.
guilty of a fraud in con
igation for which the
SEC. 4683. The defendant, immediately upon being ar
rested, must be taken to the office of the Justice who made
the order, and if he is absent or unable to try the action, or
if it appears to him by the aﬂidavit of the defendant that he
is a material witness in the action, the officer must imme
diately take the defendant before another justice of the pre
cinct or city, if there is another, and if not, then before the
justice of an adjoining precinct or city, ‘who must take
jurisdiction of the action, and proceed thereon, as if the sum
inons had been issued and the order of arrest made by him.
SEC. 4684. The oﬂicer makin the arrest must imme
diately give notice thereof to the p aintiff, or his attorney or
agent, and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a cer
tiﬁcate, statin the time of serving the same, the time of the
arrest, and of is giving notice to the plaintifff.
SEC. 4685. The ofﬁcer makin the arrest must keep the
defendant in custody until he is ischarged by order 0 the
court.
SEC. 4686. A writ to attach the property of the defend
ant must be issued by the Justice at the time of, or after is
suing summons and before answer, on receiving an affida
vit by or on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts
as are required to be shown by the aﬂidavit for attachment
out of the District Court.
SEC. 4687. Before issuing the writ, the Justice must re
quire a written undertaking on the part of the laintiﬁ‘,
with two or more sufficient sureties, in a sum not ess than
ﬁft nor more than three hundred dollars, to the effect that
if t e defendant recover 'udgment the plaintifff will a all
costs that may be awar ed to the defendant, and a am
ages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not
exceedin the sum speciﬁed lIl the undertaking.
SEC. 4 88. The writ may be directed to the Sheriff oi
any Constable of the county, or the Sheriff of any other
county, and must require him to attach and safely keep all
the property of the defendant within his county not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufﬁcient to
satisf the plaintifffs demand, the amount of which must be
state in conformity with the complaint, unless the defend
ant give him security by the undertakin of two sufﬁcient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satis y such demand be
sides costs; in which case to take such undertaking.
SEC. 4689. The sections of this Code providing for at
tachments out of the District Court, except as in this chap
ter expressly provided, are applicable to attachments issued
out of Justices’ Courts, the necessary changes and substitu
tions being made therein.
SE0. 4690. In an action to recover possession of person
al property, the pla.intiﬂ:' may at the time of issuing sum
mons or at any time thereafter before answer, claim the de
livery of such property to him; and the sections of this Code
providing the practice in proceedings for claim and delive
ry of personal propert in the District Court are applicable
to like proceedings in ustices’ Courts, the necessary changes
and substitutions being made therein.
SECTION 4695. When the defendant fails to appear and
answer or demur at the time speciﬁed in the summons, or
within one hour thereafter, the court must hear the evidence
offered by the plaintifff, and must render judgment in his
favor for such a sum (not exceeding the amount stated in
the summons), as a pears by such evidence to be just.
SEC. 4696. In t e following cases the same proceedings
must be had, and judgment must be rendered in like man
ner, as if the defendant had failed to appear and answer or
demur: *1
1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defen
dant fails to answer it as amended, within the time allowed
by the court
2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled, and the
defendant fails to answer at once;
3. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained, and the
defendant fails to amend the answer within the time al
lowed by ‘the court.
CHAPTER VI.
TIME or TRIAL AND or Posrronnmnnrs.
Saonon SECTION
4701. Time when trial must be commenced 470-1. Postponement upon application oi’
4702. When court may, oi its own motion, a part .
postpone trial. 4705. No cont nuance for more than ten
4703. Postponement by consent. days to be granted. unless upon
ﬁling oi undertaking.
SECTION 4701. Unless postponed as provided in this chapter, or unless transferred to another court, the trial of
the action must commence at the expiration of one hour
from the time speciﬁed in the summons for the ap earance
of defendant, and the trial must be continued, wit out ad
journment for more than twenty-four hours at any one
time, until all the issues therein are disposed of.
SEC. 4702. The court may, of its own motion, postpone
the trial:
1. For not exceeding one da , if, at the time ﬁxed by
law or by an order of the court or the trial, the court is en
gaged in the trial of another action;
2. For not exceedin two days, if, by an amendment of
the pleadings, or the al owance of time to make such amend
ment or to plead, a (postponement is rendered necessary;
3. For not excee ing three days, if the trial is upon is
sues of fact, and a jury has been demanded.
Sac. 4703. The court may, by consent of the parties,
given in writing or in open court, postpone the trial to a
time agreed upon by the parties.
SEC. 4704. The trial may be post oned upon the appli
cation of either party for a perio not exceeding four
months:
1. The party making the application must prove, by his
own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of mater
ial testimony, which he expects to procure, safely proceed
to trial, and must show in what respect the testimony ex
pected is material, and that he has used due diligence to pro
cure it, and has been unable to do so;
2. If the application is on the part of the plaintifff, and
the defendant is under arrest, a post onement for more
than three hours discharges the defen ant from custody,
but the action may proceed notwithstandin , and the de
fendant is subject to arrest on execution, in t e same man
ner as if he had not been discharged;
3. If the application is on the part of a defendant under
arrest, before it can be granted he must execute an under
taking, with two or more suﬂicient sureties, to be a proved
by, and in a sum to be ﬁxed by, the court, to the e ect that
he will reader himself amenable to the process of the court
durin the pendency of the action, and to such as may be
issue to enforce the judgment therein; or that the sureties
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which
he may receive in the action, not exceeding the amount
speciﬁed in the undertaking. On ﬁling the undertaking
speciﬁed in this subdivision, the court must order the de
fendant to be discharged from custody;
4. The party making the application must, if required by
the adverse art , consent that the testimony of any wit
ness of suc 1 a verse party, who is in attendance, may be
then taken b deposition before the court, and that the tes
timony so ta en may be read on the trial with the same ef
fect, and subgect to the same objections, as if the witness
was produce ; but the court may require the party making
the application to state, upon afﬁdavit, the evidence which
he expects to obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon
admits that such evidence would be given, and that it be
considered as actually given on the trial or offered and over
ruled as improper, the trial must not be postponed.
SEC. 4705. No ad'ournment must, unless by consent,
be granted for a perio longer than ten days, upon the ap
plication of either party, except upon condition that such
party ﬁle an undertaking in an amount ﬁxed by the court,
with two sureties, to be approved by the court, to theeﬁect
that they will pay to the opposite party the amount of any
judgment which may be recovered a ainst the partv ap
plying, not exceeding the sum speciﬁc in the underta ' g.
CHAPTER VII.
Tnmns IN JUsricns’ Covers.
Sxcnon
4711. Issue deﬁned, and the diﬁerent
kinds.
4712. Issue of law, how raised.
Bmrnox
4717. Either party falling to appear. trial
may proceed at request of other
arty.
4713. Issue of fact, how raised. 4718
714. Issue of law, how tried. 4719. Manner of pleading a written instru
. Challenge: to jurors.
4715. Issue of fact, how tried. ment.
4716. Jury, how waived. -1720. It n. co y of an instrument be ﬁled,
I the s natures will be deemed ad
mit , unless denied under oath .
SECTION 4711. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one part-_v
and is controverted by the other. They are of two
kinds:
1. Of law ; and
2. Of fact.
SEC. 4712. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the com laint or answer, or to some part thereof.
SEC. 713. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon amaterial allegation in the complaint contro
verted by the answer; and,
2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of
law is joined thereon.
Snc. 4714. An issue of law must be tried by the court.
SEC. 4715. An issue of fact must be tried by a jury, un
less a jury is waived, in which case it must be tried by the
court.
SEC. 4716. A jury may be waived:
1. By the consent of parties, entered in the docket;
2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury before
the commencement of the trial of an issue of fact;
3. By the failure of either party to appear at the time
ﬁxed for the trial of an issue 0 fact.
SEC. 4717. If either party fails to a pear at the time
ﬁxed for trial, the trial may proceed at t e request of the
adverse party.
SEC. 4718. The challenges are either peremptory or for
cause. Each party is entitled ‘to three eremptory chal
lenges. Either party may challenge or cause on any
grounds set forth as grounds of such challen e in the Dis
trict Court. Challenges for cause must be trie by the court.
SEC. 4719. When the cause of action or counterclaim
arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of
money only, the court, at any time before the trial, ma , by
an order under his hand, require the original to be exhi ited
to the inspection of, and a copy to be furnished to, the ad
verse party, at such time as may be ﬁxed in the order; or,
if such order is not obeyed, the account or instrument can
not be given in evidence. _
SEC. 4720. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint or
ﬁle with the court at the time of issuing the summons, the
original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange,
or other written obligation for the payment of money; upon
which the action is brought, the defendant is deemed to ad
mit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, in
dorsers, or assignors thereof, unless he speciﬁcally deny
the same in his answer, and verify the answer by his oath.
SECTION 4725. Judgments upon confession may be en
tered in any J ustice’s Court speciﬁed in the confession, in
ang amount of which the court has jurisdiction.
EC. 4726. Judgment that the action be dismissed, with
out prejudice to a new action, may be entered with costs,
in the following cases:
1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action be
fore it is ﬁnally submitted;
2. When he fails to appear at the time s eciﬁed in the
summons, or at the time to which the action as been post
poned, or within one hour thereafter;
3. When, after a demurrer to the com laint has been
sustained, the plaintifff fails to amend it wit in the time al
lowed‘lKi/y the court
4. hen it is objected at the trial, and appears by the
evidence, that the action is brought in the wron county, or
precinct, or city; but if the objection is taken an overruled,
it is cause only of reversal on a peal, and does not other
wise invalidate the judgment; ifpnot taken at the trial it is
waived.
Sac. 4727. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the court at once, in conformity with
the verdict.
SEC. 4728. When the trial is by the court, judgment
must be entered at the close of the trial.
SEC. 47 29. The judgment must be entered substantially
in the form required by this Code. When the judgment is
rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest
and imprisonment thereon, the fact that the defendant is so
subject must be stated in the judgment.
SEC. 4730. When the amount found due to either party
exceeds the sum for which the court is authorized to enter
judgment, such (party may remit the excess, and judgment
may be rendere for the residue.
SEC. 4731. If the defendant, at any time before the
trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a s eciﬁed sum, the plaintifff may immediately have
judgment t erefor, with the costs then accrued; but if he
do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover
in the action a sum in excess of the offer, he cannot recover
costs; but costs must be adjudged against him, and if he re
cover, be deducted from his recovery. The offer and failure
to accept cannot be given in evidence, nor affect the recov
ery otherwise than as to costs.
SEC. 4732. The court must tax and include in the judgment
the costs allowed by law to the prevailing party.
SEC. 4733. The Probate Court or Justice of the Peace,
on the demand of a party in whose favor judgment is rendered,
must give him an abstract of thejudgment in the fol
lowing form gﬁlling blanks according to the facts):
Territory o Idaho, County of
laintiff, vs. ——-—-———, defendant, i-———i———
n Probate Court of iCounty, (or, In Justice Court,
before————, Justice of the Peace, of ———— Precinct,
or City,)——i, 18i,?(insert date of abstract).
Judgment entered for plaintiﬂ’ (or defendant) for—do lars,
on the———day of————, 188—.
I certify that the foregoing is a correct abstract of a judg
ment rendered in said action in my court, or (as the case
may be) in the Court of—-, Justice of the Peace, as appears
by his docket, now in my ossession, as his successor in
oﬁice, signed by the Clerk o the Probate Court and attested
by its seal, or si ed by the Justice, as the case may be.
SEC. 4734. he abstract may be ﬁled and docketed in
the oﬁice of the District Clerk of the county in which the
judgment was rendered, and must be docketed in the judgment
docket of the District Court. The time of the receipt
of the abstract by the Clerk must be noted by him thereon,
and entered in the docket.
SEC. 4735. From the time of docketing in the District
Clerk’s ofﬁce, execution may be issued thereon by the District Clerk to the Sheriff of any county in the Territory, in
the same manner and with like effect as if issued on judg
ments of the District Courts.
SEC. 4736. A jud ment rendered in a Probate or Justice’s Court creates no ien u on an lands of the defendant,
unless such an abstract is ﬁ ed an docketed in the oﬂice of
the Clerk of the District Court of the county in which the
lands are situated. When so ﬁled and docketed, such judg
ment is a lien upon the lands of the judgment debtor situa
ted in that county not exempt from execution owned by him
at the time, or which he may afterwards, and before the
lien ex ires acquire. The lien continues for two years, unless
the ju gment be previously satisﬁed.
CHAPTER IX.
EXECUTIONS FROM PROBATE AND J USTICES’ CoUR'rs.
Bnvrxon Bscrxon
4741. Execution may issue at any time 4744. Duty oi’ oﬂioer receiving execution.
within ﬁve years. 4745. Proceedings supplementary to exe
4742. Execution, contents oi’. cutionr
4743 . Ben ewal of execution.
SECTION 4741. Execution for the enforcement of a
jud ent ma be issued by the Clerk of the Probate Court
un er the sea of the court, or by the Justice who entered
the judgment, or his successor in oﬂice, on the a plication
of the party entitled thereto, at any time within ve years
from t e entry of judgment.
SEC. 4742. The execution must be directed to the Sheriﬁf
or to a Constable of the count , and must be subscribed by
the Clerk or Justice and bear ate the day of its delivery to
the oiﬁcer. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment, by
stating the names of the parties and the name of the court
or Justice before whom, and of the county where, and the
time when it was rendered; the amount of judgment if it be
for money; and if less than the whole is due, the true amount
due thereon. It must contain in like cases, similar direc
tions to the Sheriﬁf or Constable as are required in execu
tions issued from the District Court.
SEC. 4743. An execution may, at the request of the
judgment creditor be renewed before the expiration of the
time ﬁxed for its return, by the word “renewa ” written
thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the Clerk
or Justice. Such renewal has the effect of an ori 'nal issue,
and may be re eated as often as necessary. I an execu
tionlis returne unsatisﬁed, another may be afterwards is
sue .
SEC. 4744. The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execu
tion is directed must execute the same in the same manner
as the Sheriff is required to proceed u on executions direct
ed to him, and the Constable, when t e execution is direct
ed to him, is vested for that purpose with all the powers of
the Sheriff.
SEC. 4745. The provisions of this Code as to proceedin
sup lementary to execution in the District Court are app i
ca eto Probate and Justices’ Courts, the necessary changes
and substitutions being made therein.
CHAPTER X.
CONTEMPTS IN Jusrions’ COURTS.
SECTION
4750. Conteigpts.
4751. Procee ngs ior contempts.
-1752. Same.
SEOTXON
4753. Punlsliments for contenipts.
l 4754. The conviction must be entered in
the docket.
SECTION 4750. A Probate Judge or Justice may punish
as for contempt, persons guilty of the following acts, and
no other:
1. Disorderly, contem tuous orinsolent behavior towards
the Judge or Justice whi e holding the court, tending to in
terrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceed
in ;
5. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent
disturbance in the presence of the Jud e or Justice, or in
the immediate vicinity of the court liel by him, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceed
in ;
§. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of alawful
order or process, made or issued b him;
4. Disobedience to a subpoena uly served, or refusing to
be sworn or to answer as awitness;
5. Rescuing an person or property in the custod
pliﬁcer by virtue 0 an order or process of the court
im.
SEC. 4751. When a contem t is committed in the im
mediate view and presence of t ie Judge or Justice, it may
be punished summarily; to that end an order must be made
reciting the facts as they occurred, and adjudging that the
person proceeding against is thereby guilty of contempt,
and that lie be punished as therein prescribed.
532
of an
eld by
SEC. 4752. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the Judge or J ustice, a War
rant of arrest may be issued by such Judge or Justice, on
which the erson so guilty may be arrested and brought
before the udge or Justice immediately, when an opportu
nity to be heard in his defense or excuse must be given.
The Judge or Justice may thereupon discharge him, or may
convict him of the offense.
SEC. 4753. The Judge or Justice may punish for con
tempts by ﬁne or imprisonment, or both, such ﬁne not to
exceed, in any case, one hundred dollars, and such impris
onment one day.
SEC. 4754. The conviction specifyin
offense and the judgment thereon, must
docket.
particularly the
CHAPTER XL
e entered in the
Docxsrs or PROBATE COURT AND J USTICES or THE Pnacs.
SECTION
4764. May issue execution or other pro
SECTION
4759. Docket, what to contain.
4760. Entries therein primary evidence cuss upon the docket oi his prede
o1 the fact. cessor
4761. An index to the docket must be kept. 4785. Successor oi’ s. Justice, who shall be
4762. Dockets must be delivered by Judge deemed.
4763.
4766. Ii two Justices might be deemed
successors, the Probate Judge
shall designate one.
or Justice to his successor.
Proceedings when oﬂice becomes
vacant and before a successor is
appointed.
SECTION 4759. Every Probate Court and Justice must
keepi a book denominated a. “Docket”, in which must be en
tere :
1. The title of every action or proceeding;
2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount thereof;
3. The date of the summons and the time of its return
and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ of
attachment be issued, a statement of the fact ;
4. The time when the parties, or either of them appear,
or their non-appearance, if default be made; a minute of
the pleadings and motions; if in writing, referring to them;
if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts
-of the pleadin ;
5. Itvery adjournment, stating on whose application and
to what time;
6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the
time a pointed for the return of the jury and for the trial;
7. he names of the jurors who appear and are sworn,
and the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose re uest;
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; i the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagree
ment and discharge;
9. The judgment of the court specifying the costs includ
-ed and the time when rendered;
10. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and to
whom_; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a
statement of any money paid to the court, when and by
whom;
11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and
-of the appeal bond, if any be ﬁled.
SEC. 4760. The several particulars of the last section
speciﬁed must be entered under the title of the section to
which they relate, and (unless otherwise in this Code ro
vided), at the time when they occur. Such entries in a ro
bate or J ustice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certiﬁed by
thedClerk qr ﬁusktice, or his successor in ofﬁce, are primary
evi ence o t e acts so stated.
SEC. 4761. The Clerk of the Probate Court and every
Justice of the Peace must keep an alphabetice ‘index to his
docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties
to each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry.
The names of the laintiffs must be entered in the index,
in the alphabetica order of the ﬁrst letter of the family
name.
SEC. 4762. Every Probate Judge and every Justice of
the Peace, upon the expiration of his term of ofﬁce, must de
iéositwith his successor his ofﬁcial dockets and all papers
led in his oﬁice, as well his own as those of his predecessors,
or any other which may be in his custody to be keptas pub
lic records.
SEC. 4763. If the ofﬁce of Justice becomes vacant by
his death or removal from the precinct or city or otherwise,
before his successor is elected and qualiﬁed, the docket and
pa ers in possession of such Justice must be deposited in the
o ce of some other Justice in the precinct, to be by him
delivered to the successor of such justice. If there is no
other Justice in the precinct, then the docket and pa ers of
such Justice must be deposited in the office of the ounty
Recorder of the county, to be by him delivered to the succes
sor in ofﬁce of the Justice.
SEC. 4764. Any Probate Judge having the docket of his
predecessor, and any Justice with whom the docket of his
predecessor, or of an other Justice, is de osited, has and
ma exercise over al actions and procee ings entered in
suc docket, the same jurisdiction as if originally com
menced before him. In case of the creation of a new coun
‘tiy, or the change of the boundary between two counties, any
ustice into whose hands the docket of a Justice formerly
acting as such within the same Territory may come, is, for
the purposes of this section, considered the successor of such
former Justice.
SEC. 4765. The Justice elected to ﬁll a vacancy is the
successor of the Justice whose ofﬁce became vacant before
the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires, the
same or another erson elected to take oﬂice in the same
precinct or city, rom that time is the successor.
SEC. 4766. When two or more Justices are equally entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the successors ll
oﬂ‘ice of the Justice, the Probate Jud e, must by acertiﬁcate
subscribed by him and ﬁled in the o ce of the Count Rec
order, designate which Justice is the successor of a ustice
going out of oﬁice, or whose oﬂice has become vacant.
SEc'r1_oN 4771. Subpoenas out of any Probate or Justice‘s
Court, and ﬁnal process on any judgment recovered therein,
may be issued to any part of the county.
SEC. 4772. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a Probate Court or Justice, except
a subpoena, must be issued without a blank left to be ﬁlled
by another, otherwise it is void.
SEC. 4773. Probate Jud es and Justices of the Peace
must receive from the Sheri s or Constables of their coun
ti, all monies collected on any process or order issued from
t eir courts respectively, and all monies paid to them iii
their oiﬁcial capacity, and must pay the same over to the
aities entitle or authorized to receive them, without
e ay. *
SEC. 4774. In case of the sickness or other disability, or
necessary absence of a J ustice, on a return of a summons or
at the time appointed fora trial, another Justice of the same
precinct or city ma , at his request, attend in his behalf, and
thereupon is veste with the power, for the time being, of
the Justice before whom the summons was returnable. In
that case, the proper entry of proceedings before the attend
ing Justice subscribed by him, must be made in the docket
of the Justice before whom the summons was returnable.
If the case is adjourned, the Justice before whom the sum
mons was returnable may resume jurisdiction.
Sac. 4775. Probate and Justices’ Courts may in all
cases require a deposit of money or an undertaking, as se
curity for costs of court, before issuing a summons. _.
SEC. 4776. The prevailing party in Probate and Justices'
Courts is entitled to costs of the action and also of any pro
ceedings taken by him in aid of an execution, issued upon
ang jud ment recovered therein.
EC. 777. The Probate Courts in the exercise of their
civil jurisdiction, and Justices’ Courts," being courts of
peculiar and limited jurisdiction, only those provisions of
this Code which are, in their nature, applicable to the or
ganization, powers, and course of proceedings in these
courts, or which have been made applicable by special pro
visions in this Code, are applicable to these courts and the
proceedings therein.
SEC. 4778. In all civil cases arising in Probate and
Justices’ Courts, where an undertaking is required by this
Code, a deposit with the court of a sum of money equal to
the amount of the required undertaking ma be received
and held by the court in place of said un erta ing.
SECTION 4800. A jud ment or order, in a. civil action, ex
.
cept when expressly ma e ﬁnal, may be reviewed as pre
scribed in this Code, and not otherwise.
SEC. 4801. An‘ order made out of court, without notice
to the adverse party, may be vacated or modiﬁed without
notice, by the Judge who made it; or may be vacated or
modiﬁed on notice in the manner 111 which other motions
are made.
rieved may appeal in the
SEC. 4802. Any part a
cases prescribed in this Co e. he party appealing is known
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.
CHAPTER 11.
APPEALS TO SUPREME COURT FROM DISTRICT CoUR'r.
Sawnon
4807. Within what ti.me appeal may be
taken.
4 R08. Appeal, how taken.
4109. Undertaking or deposit on appeal.
41-s10. Undertaking on appeal from u. mon
-i8 l 1
ey judgment.
Ap eal from a judgment for ade
1
4812.
4813.
4814.
4s15.
4s1c.'
4s17.
very of documents.
Appea
from a judgment directing
the execution of a conveyance, etc.
Undertaking on appeal concerning
real property.
Stay oi! proceedin s. The security
on appeal may e limited in the
ease o an executor, etc.
Undertaking may be in one instru
ment or several
J ustiﬁcation oi sureties on under
taking on appeal.
Undertakings in cases not speciﬁed. I
Bncrlon
4818. What papers to be used on an ap
eal rom the judgment.
4819. hat papers used on appeals from
4820.
482i .
-1822.
4823.
-1824.
4825.
4826.
orders, or from judgments render
ed on appeal.
What papers to be used on an ap
eal from an order granting or re
using a new trial.
Copies and undertakings, how cer
titled.
When an a pea] may be dismissed.
Effect of smissal.
What may bx. reviewed on an appeal
from judgment.
Remedial powers of an Appellate
Court.
On judgment on appeal. remittitur
must be certiﬁed to the Clerk of
the Court below .
SECTION 4807. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme
Court from a District Court:
1. From a ﬁnal judgment in an action or special proceed
ing commenced in the court in which the same is rendered,
within one ear after the entr of jud ment. But an ex
ception to t e decision or ver ict, on t e ground that it is
not supported by the evidence, cannot be reviewed on an
appeal rom the judgment, unless the appeal is taken within
sixty days after the rendition of the judgment;
2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an infe
rior court, within ninety days after the entry of such judg
ment;
3. From an order grantin or refusing a new trial; from
an order granting or disso ving an injunction; from an
order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from an
order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment; from
an order granting or refusin to grant a change of the place
of trial; from any special or er made after ﬁnal judgment,
and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition
of real property, within sixty days after the order or inter
locutory jud ment is made and entered on the minutes of
the court or led with the Clerk.
SEC. 4808. An appeal is taken by ﬁling with the Clerk
of the Court in which the jud ent or order ap ealed from
is entered, a notice stating t e appeal from t e same, or
some speciﬁc part thereof, and serving a similar notice on
the adverse party, or his attorney. The order of service is
immaterial, but the appeal is ineffectual for any purpose,
unless within ﬁve days after service of the notice o appeal,
an undertaking be ﬁled, or a deposit of money be made
with the Clerk, as hereinafter provided, or the undertaking
be waived by the adverse party in writing.
SEC. 4809. The undertaking on appeal must be in writing, and must be executed on the part of the appellant b
at east two sureties, to the eﬁect that the ap ellant wi 1
ay all damages and costs which ma be awar ed against
' on the ap eal, or on a dismissal t ereof, not exceedin
three hundre dollars; or that sum must be deposited wit
the Clerk with whom the jud ment or order was entered, to
abide the event of the appea ; Provided, That when more
than one appeal in the same action, whether from the judg
ment and an appealable order or orders, or from two or
more apgealable orders, are taken at the same time, but one
such un ertaking or deposit for damages and costs need be
ﬁled or made.
SEC. 4810. If the appeal be from a judgment or order
directin the >ayment o money, it does not stay the execution of t e 'u gment or order, unless awritten undertaking
be execute on the part of the appellant by two or more
sureties to the eifect that they are bound in double the
amount named in the judgment or order; that if the judg
ment or order ap)pealed from, or any part thereof be affirmed
or the appeal e dismissed, the a pellant will pay the
amount directed to be paid by the ju gment or order, or the
part of such amount as to which the judgment or order is
afﬁrmed, if aﬂirmed only in part, and all damages and costs
which may be awarded a ainst the appellant u on the ap
peal, and that if the appel ant does not make suc payment
within thirty days after the ﬁling of the remittitur from the
Su reme Court in the court from which the appeal is taken,
'u gment may be entered on motion of the respondent, in
is favor against the sureties, for such amount together
with the interest that may be due thereon, and the damages
and costs which ma be awarded against the ap ellant
upon the appeal. If t e judgment or order ap eale from,
be for a greater amount than two thousand dollars, and the
sureties do not state in their aﬂidavits of justiﬁcation ac
companying the undertaking, that they are each worth the
sum speciﬁed in the undertaking, the stipulation may be that
the judgment to be entered against the sureties shall be for
such amounts only as in their affidavits, they may state they
are severally worth, and judgment may be entered against
the sureties by the court from which the a peal is taken
pursuant to the stipulations herein designate . When the
judgment or order appealed from, is made payable in a
speciﬁed kind of money or currency, the judgment entered
against the sureties upon the undertaking, must be made
pa able in the same kind of money or currency.
EC. 48 1 1. If the 'udgment or order appealed from direct
the assignment or delivery of documents or ersonal prop
erty, the execution of the judgment or or er cannot be
stayed by aippeal, unless the things required to be assigned
or delivere e placed in the custody of such oﬂicer or re
ceiver as the court or Jud e thereof may appoint; or unless
an undertaking be enteref into on the part of the a pellant,
with at least two sureties, and in such amount as t e court,
or Judge thereof, ma direct, to the effect that the appel
lantl Wlll obey the or er of the Appellate Court upon the ap
pea .
SEC. 4812. If the judgment or order appealed from,
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument,
the execution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed by
the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited
with the Clerk with whom the jud ment or order is entered,
to abide the jud ent of the Appe ate Court.
SEC. 4813. f the jud ment or order appealed from, di
rect the sale or delivery 0% possession of real property the
execution of the same cannot be stayed, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant with
two or more sureties, to the eﬂt'ect that during the posses
sion of such property by the appellant, he will not commit,
or suffer to be committed, any Waste thereon, and that if
the judgment be aﬁirmed, or the appeal dismissed. he will
pay the value of the use and occupation of the property
rom the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession
thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not exceeding
a sum to be ﬁxed by the Judge of the court by which the
judgment was rendered or order made, and which must be
s eciﬁed in the undertaking. When the judgment is for
t c sale of mortgaged premises, and the ayment of a deﬁ
ciency arising upon the sale, the underta ing must also pro
vide for the ayment of such deﬁciency.
SEC. 4814). Whenever an appeal IS perfected, as pro
vided in the preceding sections of this chapter, it stays all
further proceedings in the courtbelow, upon thejud ent or
order appealed from, or upon the matters embrace therein,
and releases from levy property which has been levied upon
under execution issued upon such judgment; but the court
below may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the
action, and not affected by the order appealed from. And
the court below may, in its discretion, dis ense with or
limit the security required by this chapter, w en the appel
lant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person
acting in another’s right. An appeal does not continue in
force and attachment, unless an undertaking be executed
and ﬁled on the part of the applellant, by at least two sure
ties, in double the amount of t e debt claimed by him; that
the a pellant will pay all costs and damages which the re
s on ent may sustain by reason of the attachment, in case
t e order of the court below be sustained; and unless, with
in twenty days after the entry of the order appealed from,
such appeal be perfected. .
SEC. 4815. The undertakings prescribed by sections
4809, 4810, 4811 and 4813, may be in one instrument or sev
eral, at the option of the appellant.
SEC. 4816. The adverse party may except to the suﬁ"i
ciency of the sureties to the undertakings mentioned in sec
tions 4809, 4810, 4811 and 4813, at any time within thirty
days after the ﬁlin of such undertaking; and, unless they
or other sureties, wit in twenty days after the appellant has
been served with notice of such exception, 'ustif before a
Judge of the court below, or the Probate Ju e o the coun
ty, upon ﬁve days’ notice to the respondent, o the time and
place of justiﬁcation, execution of the judgment, order, or
decree appealed from is no longer stayed; and in all cases
where an undertaking is required on a peal by the provis
ions of this Title, a deposit in the court below of the amount
of the judgment appealed from, and three hundred dollars,
in addition, is equivalent to ﬁling the undertaking; and in
all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the
written consent of the respondent.
SEC. 4817. In cases not provided for in sections 4810,
4811, 4812 and 4813, the erfecting of an appeal by giving
the undertaking, or mallging the deposit mentioned in sec
tion 4809, stays proceedings in the court below, upon the
judgment or the order appealed from, except where it di
rects the sale of perishable property ;in which case the court
below may order the propert to be sold and the proceeds
thereof to be de osited, to abi e the judgment of the a pel
late court. An except, also, where it adjudges the de end
ant guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully hold
ing a public office, civil or military, within this Territory.
And exce t, also, where the order ants, or refuses to
grant, a c ange of the place of trial o an action.
SEC. 4818. In an a peal from a ﬁnal judgment, the ap
pellant must furnish t e court with a co y of the notice of
appeal, of the judgment roll, and of any ill of exceptions
or statement in the case, upon which the appellant relies.
Any statement used on motion for a new trial, or settled
after decision of such motion, when the motion is made
upon the minutes of the court, as provided in section 4443,
or any bill of exceptions settled, as provided in sections 4429
or 4430, or used on motion for a new trial, may be used on
a peal from a ﬁnal judgment e ually as upon appeal from
t e order anting or refusing t e new trial.
SEC. 48‘ 9. On apipeal from a judgment rendered on an
appeal, or from an or er, except an order granting or refus
ing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with a
copy of the notice of appeal, of the judglment or order ap
Eela ed from, and of papers used on the earing in the court
e ow.
SEC. 4820. On an appeal from an order granting or re
fusing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the court with
a copy of the notice of appeal, of the order a pealed from,
and of the apers designated in section 44.43 0 this Code.
SEC. 48 1. The copies provided for in the last three sections must be certiﬁed to be correct by the Clerk’ or the
attorneys, and must be accompanied with a certiﬁcate of
the Clerk or attorneys. that an undertaking on appeal, in
due form, has been properly ﬁled or a stipulation of the
parties waiving an undertaking.
SEC. 4822. If the appellant fails to furnish the requi
site pa ers, the appeal may be dismissed; but no a peal
can be ismissed for insuﬂiciency of the undertaking there
on if a good and sufficient undertaking approved b a Jus
tice of the Supreme Court, be ﬁled in the Supreme ourt be
fore the hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal.
SEC. 4823. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an af
ﬁrmance of the judgment or order appealed from, unless
the dipmissal is expressly made without prejudice to another
a ea .
P EC. 4824. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court
may review the verdict or decision, and any intermediate
order or decision, if excepted to, whichi volves the merits
or necessarily affects the judgment, exce t a. decision or or
der from wh ch an appeal might have been taken.
SEC. 4825. When the judgment or order reversed or
modiﬁed, the appellate court may make complete restitu
tion of all property and rights lost by the erroneous jud ment
or order, so for as the restitution is consistent wit
the rotection of a purchaser of property at a sale ordered
by t e judgment, or had under process issued upon the
judgment on the appeal from which the proceedings were
not stayed; and for relief in such cases, the appellant may
have hlS action against the respondent enforcing the judg
ment for the proceeds of the sale of the property, after de
ducting therefrom the expenses of the sale. When it ap
pears to the Ap ellate Court that the appeal was made for
delay, it may a d to the cost such damages as may be just.
8.
SEC. 4826. When the 'udgment is rendered upon the
peal, it must be certiﬁed by the Clerk of the Su reme
ourt to the Clerk with Whom the judgment roll is ﬁ ed, or
the order appealed from is entered. In cases of ap eal from
the judgment, the Clerk with whom the roll is ﬁle must at
tach the certiﬁcate to the judgment roll, and enter aminute
of the judgment of the Supreme Court on the docket, against
the original entry. In cases of appeal from an order, the
Clerk must enter at length in the records of the court the
certiﬁcate received, and minute against the entry of the or
der appealed from, a reference to the certiﬁcate, with a brief
statement that such order has been afﬁrmed, reversed, or
modiﬁed by the Supreme Court on appeal.
CHAPTER III.
APPEALS FROM PROBATE CoURrs TO Drsrmcr Counr IN
Pnosars M.-rrrnas.
SECTION
4831. When may be taken.
4832. Executors and administrators not
required to give undertaking on‘
appeal.
SECTION
4833. Acts of acting administrator, etc.,
not invalidated by reversal of 0r
der appointing him.
SECTION 4831. An appeal may be taken to the District
Court of the county from a judgment or order of the Pro
bate Court in probate matters:
1. Granting, refusing or revokin letters testamentary,
or of administration, or of guardians rip;
2. Admitting, or refusin to admit, a will to robate;
3. Against or in favor o the validity of a wi l, or revok
ing the probate thereof;
4. A ainst or in favor of settin a art property, or mak
ing an a lowance for a widow or c ild);
5. Against or in favor of directing the partition, sale, or
conve anoe of real propert ;
6. ettling an account of’ an executor, or administrator,
or guardian;
7. Refusing, allowing, or directing the distribution or
partition of an estate, or an part thereof, or the payment
of a debt, claim, legacy, or istributive share;
t8€.Ld Conﬁrming report of appraiser setting apart the home
s e .
SEC. 4832. When an executor, administrator or guar
dian who has given an oﬂicial bond, a peals from a judg
ment or order of the Probate Court ma e in the proceedings
had upon the estate of which he is administrator, executor,
or guardian, his oﬁicial bond stands in the place of an un
dertaking on ap eal, and the sureties therein are liable as
on such underta ing.
SEC. 4833. When the order or decree appointing an
executor, administrator, or guardian, is reversed on appeal
for error, and not for want of jurisdiction of the court, all
lawful acts in administration upon the estate erformed b
such executor, administrator, or ardian, if he have qua iﬁed,
are as valid as if such or er_[or decree had been af
ﬁrmed.
CHAPTER IV.
APPEALS FROM PROBATE AND J Usrions’ CoUR'rs T0 DISTRICT
Covnrs.
SECTION SECTION
4838. Appeal from judgment.
4839. Party appealing on question of law the case.
alone must prepare e. statement. 4842. Undertaking on appeal. Jnstlﬂca
Settlement ct statement. tion of sureties.
4840. If the appeal be upon questions of 4843. On ﬁling undertaking, execution
(act or oi law and fact, no state- must be stayed.
ment need be made. 4844. Miscellaneous provisions on trials.
SECTION 4838. Any party dissatisﬁed with a judgment
rendered in a civil action in a Probate or Justice’s court,
may appeal therefrom to the District Court of the county,
at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the
judgment. The appeal is taken by ﬁling a notice of appeal
with the Justice or Judge, and serving a copy on the ad
verse party. The notice must state whether the appeal
is taken from the whole or a part of the judgment, and if
from part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken on
questions of law or fact, or both.
4841. Upon the appeal, must transmit
SEC. 4839. When a party appeals to the District Court
on questions of law alone, unless the question arises upon
the pleadings or ﬁles in the action, or appears from the docket
of t e court, he must, within ten days from the rendition of
jud ent, prepare a statement of the case, and ﬁle the same
wit the Justice or Judge. The statement must contain
the grounds upon which the party intends to rely on the ap
peal, and so much of the evidence as may be necessary to
explain the grounds and no more. Within ten days after
he receives notice that the statement is ﬁled, the adverse
party if dissatisﬁed with the same, may ﬁle amendments.
l‘he pro osed statement and amendments must be settled
by the ustice or Judge, and if no amendment be ﬁled, the
original statement stands as adopted. The statement thus
ado ted, or as settled by the Justice or Judge, with a copy
of t e docket of the Justice or Judge, and all motions ﬁled
with him by the parties during the trial, and the notice of
appeal, may be used on the hearing of the appeal before the
District Court.
SEC. 4840. When a party appeals to the District Court
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact,
no statement need be made, but the action be tried anew in
the District Court.
SEC. 4841. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on
payment of the fees of the court or Justice an ling an un
ertaking as required in the next section, and after settle
ment or adoption of statement, if an , the Clerk or Justice
must, within ﬁve da s, transmit to t e Clerk of the District
Court, if the appeal e on questions of law alone, the plead
ings and ﬁles in the action, a certiﬁed copy of his docket,
the statement, if any, as admitted or as settled, the notice
of appeal and the undertaking ﬁled; or, if the agpeal be on
questions of fact, or both law and fact, a certi ed copy of
his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions, and other a
pers ﬁled in the cause, the notice of appeal and the un er
taking ﬁled; and the Justice or Judge may be compelled by
the district court, by an order entered upon motion, to trans
mit such papers, and may be ﬁned for neglect or refusal to
transmit the same. A certiﬁed copy of such order may be
served on the Justice or Judge by the party or his attorney.
In the District Court, either party may have the beneﬁt of
all legal objections made in Probate or ustices’ Courts. And
the District Court has the same power to grant relief by
amendment and otherwise, as in actions commenced in the
District Court.
SEC. 4842. An appeal from aJustice’s or Probate Court
is not elfectual for any purpose, unless an undertakin be
ﬁled, with two or more sureties, in the sum of one hun red
dollars, for the payment of the costs on the a peal; or, if a
stay of proceedin s be claimed, in a sum equa to twice the
amount of the ju gment, including costs, when the judg
ment if for the (payment of money; or twice the value of the
property, inclu ing costs, when the judgment if for the re
cover of speciﬁc personal property, and must be condi
tione , when the action is for the recovery of money, that
the appellant will pay the amount of the jud ent ap
ealed from and al costs, if the appeal be wit drawn or
ismissed, or the amount of any judgment, and all costs
that may be recovered against him in the action in the Dis
trict Court. When the action is for the recovery of speciﬁc
personal property, the undertaking must be conditioned
that the a pellant will pay the 'udgment and costs appealed
from, an obey the order of t e court made therein, if the
appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment and
costs that ma be recovered against him in said action in
the District “ourt, and will obey any order made by the
court therein. When the judgment appealed from directs
the delivery of possession of real property, the execution of
the same cannot be stayed unless a written undertaking be
executed on the part of the appellant, with two or more
sureties, to the eﬁect that durin the possession of such
property by the appellant, he wi l not commit or suffer to
e committed, any waste thereon, and that if the appeal be
dismissed or withdrawn, or the jud ent aiﬁrmed, or judg
ment be recovered against him in t e action in the District
Court, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of
the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of possession thereof; or that he wil pay any jud ent and
costs that ma be recovered against him in sai action in
the District ourt, not exceeding the sum to be ﬁxed by the
Judge or Justice of the court from which the appeal is tak
en, and which sum must be speciﬁed in the undertaking.
A deposit of the amount of the judgment, includin all costs
appealed from, or of the value of the property inc uding all
costs in actions for the recovery of speciﬁc personal prop
erty, with the Justice or Judge, is equivalent to the ling
of the undertaking; and in such cases the Justice or Judge
must transmit the money to the Clerk of the District Court,
to be by him paid out on the order of the court. The ad
verse party may except to the suﬁicienc of the sureties
within ﬁve days after the ﬁling of the un ertakin , and un
less they or other sureties justify before the ustice or
Judge from whom the ap eal is taken, within ﬁve days
thereafter, upon notice to t e adverse part , to the amounts
stated in their afﬁdavits, the appeal must e regarded as if
no such undertaking had been 'ven.
SEC. 4843. If an execution e issued, on the ﬁling of the
undertaking stayingigroceedings, the Justice or J udge must,
by order, direct the o cer to stay all proceedings on t e same.
Such oﬂicer must, upon pa ment of his fees for services ren
dered on the execution, t ereupon relin uish all roperty
levied upon and deliver the same to the ju gment de tor, to
gether with all monies collected from sales or otherwise. If
is fees be not paid, the officer may retain so much of the prop
erty or procee s thereof as may be necessary to pay the same.
SEC. 4844. Upon an appeal on (questions of law alone,
the District Court may review all or ers aifecting the jud ment appealed from, and may set aside, or conﬁrm, or mo ify
any or all of the proceedings subsequent to and depend
ent upon such judgment, and may, if necessary or proper,
order a new trial in the District Court. When the action
is tried anew on appeal, the trial must be conducted in all
respects as trials in the District Court. The rovisions of
this Code as to changing the place of trial, an all the pro
visions as to trial in the District Court, are a plicable to
trials on appeal in the District Court. Fora fai ure to pros
ecute on appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to a
hearing, the District Court, after notice, may order the ap
peal to be dismissed with costs; and if it appear to such court
that the ap eal was made solely for delay, it may add to the
costs such ama es as may be just, not exceeding twenty
ﬁve per cent of t e judgment appealed from. Judgments
rendered in the District Court on a peal have the same
force and eifect, and may be enforce in the same manner
as judgments in actions commenced in the District Court.
SECTION 4860. VVhen a judgment is recovered against
one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon an ob
liglation, by proceeding as provided in section 4147, those
w o were not originally served with the summons, and did
not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause
why they should not be bound by the judgment in the same
manner as thought they had been originally served with
the summons.
SEC. 4861. The summons, as provided in the last sec
tion, must describe the judgment, and require the erson
summoned to show cause why he should not be boun by it,
and must be served in the same manner, and returnable
within the same time as the original summons. It is not
necessary to ﬁle a new complaint.
SEC. 4862. The summons must be accompanied by an
affidavit of the laintiff, his agent, representative or attor
ney, that the ju gment, or some part thereof, remains un
satisﬁed, and must specif the amount due thereon.
SEC. 4863. Upon suc summons the defendant may an
swer within the time speciﬁed therein, denying the jud ment
or setting up an(y defense which ma have arisen sug
seqluently, except a ischarge from liabi ity by the statute
of imitations; or he may deny his liability on the obliga
tion upon which the jud ent was recovered.
SEC. 4864. If the efendant in his answer, deny the
judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen
subsequently, the summons with the afﬁdavits annexed, and
the answer constitute the written allegations in the case; if
he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judg
ment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and
judgment, the summons with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, constitute such written allegations.
SEC. 4865. The issues formed may be tried as in other
cases; but when the defendant denies in his answer, any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it must be for
not exceeding the amount remaining unsatisﬁed on such or
iginal judgment, with interest thereon.
SECTION 4870. The defendant in any action may, at an
time before the trial or judgment, serve upon the plainti
an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him for the
sum or roperty, or to the effect therein speciﬁed. If the
lainti accept the offer, and give notice thereof within ﬁve
ays, he may ﬁle the offer, w'1th proof of notice of accept
ance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accord
ingiy. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is
to e deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given in evidence
u on the trial; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favor
a le 'udgment, he cannot recover costs accruing subse
uent y to the offer, but must pay the defendant’s costs from
t e time of the offer.
CHAPTER III.
INSPECTION or WRITINGS.
Blﬂ’.l.'1ON
4875. A party may demand inspection and copy of a writing.
SEc'rIoN 4875. Any court in which an action is pending,
or a J udge thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to
give to t e other, within a speciﬁed time, an inspection and
copy, or permission to take a copy, of entries of account in
any book, or of any document, or paper in his possession, or
under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits
of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance with
the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, docu
ment, or pa er from being given 1n evidence; or, if wanted
as evidence y the party applyin , may direct the jury to
presume them to be such as he al eges them to be ; and the
court may also punish the party refusing, for a. contempt.
This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from
compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents
when he is examined as a witness.
BILYPION
4880. Order and motion deﬁned.
CHAPTER IV.
MOTIONS AND Oansns.
4881 . Motion and orders, whore made.
4882. Notice of motion, at what time to
be given.
SECTION
4883. Transfer of motions and orders to
show cause.
-189-L. Order for payment of money, how
enforced.
SECTION 4880. Every direction of a court or Judge.
made or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment.
is denominated an order. An application for an order is a
motion.
SEC. 488 1 . Motions must be made in the county in which
the action is ending, or in an county in the same judicial
district. Or ers made out o court may be made by ﬂ'l('
Judge of the court in any part of the Territory.
SEC. 4882. When a written notice of a motion is re
quired by this Code, it must be given, unless a different
time is rescribed, if the hearing is had in the same district
in whic the action is pending or the proceeding had, ﬁve
days before the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise,
ten days. When the notice is served by mail, the number
of days before the hearing must be increased one day for
every twenty-ﬁve miles of distance between the place of de
posit and the lace of service; such increase, however, not
to exceed in al thirty da s; but the court or Judge may pre
scribe a shorter time. opies of all the moving papers, ex
cept records of the court and ﬁles in the action, must be
served with the notice, or with an order to show cause. But
no written notice of any motion affecting the pleadings or
for jud ment, or of any motion made during the progress of
the tria shall be required.
SEC. 4883. When a notice of motion is given, or an order
to show cause is made returnable before a Jud e out of
court, and at the time ﬁxed for the motion, or on t ereturn
day of the order, the Judge is unable the hear the parties,
the matter may be continued or transferred by his order to
some other Judge;
SEC. 4884. henever an order for the payment of a
sum of money is made by a court or Judge ursuant to the
provisions of this Code, it may be enforced y execution in
the same manner as if it were a judgment.
CHAPTER V.
SERVICE or PAPERS, Noricn AND APPEARANCE.
4889. Notices of papers, when and how SECTION
served. 4893. Service on non-residents. Where a
4890. Service by mail, when. has an attorney, service
4891. Service by mail, how. sha-l be on such attorney.
4892. Appearance. Notices after appear- 4894. Preceding provisions not to apply
ance. to proceeding to bring party into
contempt.
4895. Service by telegraph.
SECTION 4889. The service of notice or other pa er may
be personal, by delivery to the party or attorney on w om the
service is required to be made, or it ma be as follows:
1. If upon an attorney, it may be ma e during his absence
from his oﬂice, by leaving the notice or other papers with
his clerk therein, or with a person having charge thereof;
or when there is no person in the office y leaving them,
between the hours of eight in the mornin and six in the
afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the o ce; or if it be not
Oﬁlﬁll so asto admit of such service, then by leaving them at
t e attorney’s residence, with some erson of suitable age
and discretion; and if his residence e not known, then by
putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the post
office, directed to such attorney;
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice
or other paper at his residence, between the hours of eight
in the morning, and six in the evening], with some person of
suitable age and discretion; and if is residence be not
known, by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope into
the postoﬂice, directed to such party.
SEC. 4890. Service by mail may be made, where the per
son making the service, and the person on whom it is tobe
made, reside or have their ofﬁces in different places, be
tween which there is a. regular communication by mail.
Snc. 4891. In case of service by mail the notice or
other paper must be deposited in the postoiﬁce, addressed
to the person on whom it is to be served, at his oﬂice or
place of residence, and the postage paid. The service is
com lete at the time of the deposit, but if within a given
num er of days after such service a right ma be exercised
or an act is to be done by the adverse party, t e time within
which such right may be exercised or act be done, is ex
tended one day for every twenty-ﬁve miles distance between
the place of_ deposit and the place of address; such exten
sion, however, not to exceed thirty days in all.
SEC. 4892. A defendant appears in an action when he
answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written notice of his
appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appear
ance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his attor
ney is entitled to notice of all subsequent roceedings of
which notice is required to be given. But w ere a defend
ant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need not be
made upon him unless he is imprisoned in the action for
want of bail.
SEC. 4893. When a laintiff or a defendant, who has
appeared, resides out of t e Territory, and has no attorney
resident of the Territory in the action or proceeding, the
service may be made on the Clerk for him. But in all cases
where a party has such resident attorney in the action or
proceeding, the service of pagers, when required, must be
upon the attorney instead o t e (party, except of subpoenas,
o writs, and other process issue in the suit, and of papers
to bring into contempt. If there be no such resident attor
ne of record, service may be made upon the party.
EC. 4894. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do
not apply to the service of a summons or other process, or
of any pa er to bring a party into contempt.
SEC. 4 95. Any summons, writ,.or order in any civil
suit or proceeding, and all other papers requiring service,
mag’ be transmitted by telegra h for service in any place,
an the telegraphic copy of suc writ, or order, or paper so
transmitted, may be served or executed by the oﬂicer or
erson to whom it is sent for that purpose, and returned by
im, if any return be re uisite, in the same manner and
with the same force and e ect in all respect, as the original
thereof might be if delivered to him, and the oﬂicer or per
son serving or executing the same, has the same authority,
and is subject to the same liabilities, as if the copy were the
ori 'nal. The original, when a writ or order, must also be
ﬁle in the court from which it was issued, anda certiﬁed
copy thereof reserved in the telegraph oﬁice from which
it was sent. n sending it, either the original or the certiﬁed
copy may be used by the operator for that pur ose. When
ever any document to be sent by telegrap bears a seal,
either rivate or oiﬁcial, it is not necessary for the 0 erator,
in sen ing the same, to telegraph a description of t e seal,
or any words or device thereon, but the same may be ex
pressed in the telegraphic copy by the letters “L. S." or by
the word “seal.”
CHAPTER VI.
OF C0s'rs.
Sxcrrox Sacrroiv
4900. Compensation of attorneys. Cost 4909. Costs when a tender is made before
to parties. suit brought.
4901. When allowed of course to plaintifff. 4910. Costs in action by or against an ad
4902. Several actions brought on a single ministrator, etc.
£1288 of action can carry costs in 4911. Costs on review other than by ap
u one. eal.
4903. Defendant's costs must be allowed 4912. Fi ing of an aﬂidavitto bill of costs.
of course, in certain cases. 4913. Costs on appeal, how claimed and
4904. Costs, when in the discretion of recovered.
the court. 4914. Interest sud cost must be included
4905. When the several defendants are by the Clerk in the judgment.
not united in interest, costs may 4915. When laintiff is a non-resident or
be severed. fore gn corporation, defendant
4906. Costs of appeal discretionary with may require security for costs.
the court in certain cases. 4916. If such security be not given, the
4907. Referee s fees. action me. be dismissed.
4908. Continuance, costs may be imposed 4917. Costs when erritory is a party.
as condition of. 4918. Costs when county is a party.
SECTION 4900. The measure and mode of compensation
of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement
express or implied, of the parties; but arties to actions or
proceedings are entitled to costs and dis ursements, as here
inafter provided.
SEC. 4901. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintifff,
upon a judgment in his favor, in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property;
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal rop
erty where the value of the property amounts to one un
dred dollars or over; such value shall be determined by
the jury, court, or referee, by whom the action is tried;
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages,
when plaintifff recovers one hundred dollars or over;
4. In a special proceeding;
5. In an action which involves the title or possession of
real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment
toll, or municipal ﬁne.
SEC. 4902. VVhen several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or
other instrument in writing, or in any other case for the
same cause of action, against several parties who might
have been joined as defendant in the same action, no costs
can be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such ac
tions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded
against in the other actions were at the commencement of
the previous action openly within this Territory, but the
disbursements of the plaintifff must be allowed to him in each
action.
SEC. 4903. Costs must be allowed, of course, to the de
fendant upon <a judgment in his favor in the actions men
tioned in section 4901, and in special proceedings.
SEC. 4904. In other actions than those mentioned in section 4901, costs may be allowed or not, and, if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or ad
verse sides, in the discretion of the court, but no costs can
be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or dain
ages, when the plaintifff recovers less than one hundred dol
lars, nor in an action to recover the possession of personal
property when the value of the property is less than one
undred dollars.
SEC. 4905. When there are several defendants in the
actions mentioned in section 4901, not united in interest, and
making separate defenses by separate answers, and plaintifff
fails to recover judgment against all, the court must award
posts to such of the defendants as have judgment in their
avor.
SEC. 4906. In the following cases the costs of appeal
are in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial is ordered;
2. When a judgment is modiﬁed. In all other cases the
revailing arty shall recover costs, including his costs be
ow when t e ap eal is to the District Court.
SEC. 4907. he fees of referees are ﬁve dollars to each
for every day spent in the business of the reference;but the
parties may agree, in writing, upon any other rate of com
pensation, an thereupon such rate shall be allowed.
SEC. 4908. VVhen an application is made to a court or
referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned
by the postponement may be imposed, in the discretion of
the court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.
SEC. 4909. When in an action for the recovery of
mone only, the defendant alleges in his answer that be
fore t e commencement of the action be tendered to the
plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, and
thereupon deposits in court, for plaintifff, the amount so
tendered, and the allegation be found to be true, the plain
tiff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.
SEC. 4910. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a per
-son expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered
as in action by and against a_ person prosecuting or defend
ing in his own ri ht; but such costs must, by the judgment,
be made chargea le only u on the estate, fund or party rep
resented, unless the court irects the same to be paid by the
laintiff or defendant, personally for mismanagement or
Bad faith in the action or defense.
SEC. 491 1. When the decision of a court of inferior jur
isdiction in a special proceeding is brought before a court of
higher jurisdiction for a review, in any other way than by ap
peal,the same costs must be allowed as in cases on appeal, and
may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
court may direct, according to the nature of the case.
SEC. 4912. The party in whose favor the jud ment is
rendered, and who claims his costs, must deliver to t eClerk
within ﬁve days after the verdict or notice of the decision
of the court or referee, a memorandum of the items of his
costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceed
ing, which memorandum must be veriﬁed by the oath of
the party or his attorney or agent, or by the clerk of his at
torney, stating that to t e best of his knowledge and belief,
the items are correct, and that the disbursements have been
necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding. A party
dissatisﬁed with the costs claimed, may, within three da s
after the ﬁling of the bill of costs, ﬁle a motion to have t e
same taxed by the court in which the judgment was ren
dered, or by t e Judge thereof at chambers.
SEC. 4913. W'henever costs are awarded to a party by
an Appellate Court, if he claims such costs, he must within
thirty days after the remitittur is ﬁled with the Clerk below,
deliver to such Clerk a memorandum of his costs, veriﬁed as
prescribed by the preceding section, and thereafter he may
ave an execution therefore as upon agudgmeiit. SEC. 4914. The Clerk must inclu e in the 'udgment en
tered u by him, any interest on the verdict or ecision of the
court, rom the time it was rendered or made, and the costs,
if the same have been taxed or ascertained; and he must.
within two days after the same are taxed or ascertained, if
not included in the judgment, insert the same in a blank left
in the judgment for that urpose, and must make a similar"
insertion of the costs in t e copies and docket of the judg
ment.
SEC. 4915. When the plaintifff in an action resides out
of the Territory, or is a foreign corporation, security for the
costs and charges, which may be awarded against such
plaintifff may be re uired by the defendant. When required,
all proceedings in t e action must be stayed until an under
taking. executed by two or more persons, is ﬁled with the
Clerk to the effect that they will ay such costs and charges
as may be awarded against the p aintiif by 'udgment, or in
the pro ress of the action, not exceeding t e sum of three
hun reg dollars. A new or an additional undertaking may
be ordered bi}; the court or Judge upon proof that the orig
inal underta ing is suﬂicient security, and proceedin s in
the action sta ed until such new or additional underta ing
is excuted an ﬁled.
SEC. 4916. After the lapse of thirty days from the serv
ice of notice that security is required, or of an order for new
or additional security, upon proof thereof, and that no un
dertaking as required has been ﬁled, the court or Judge may
order the action to be dismissed.
SEC. 4917. When the Territory is a party and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the Territorial
Treasury, and the Territorial Controller shall draw his war
rant therefore on the general fund.
SEC. 4918. When a county is a party and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the county
treasury.
CHAPTER VII.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SECTION Sszcrmrz _
4923. Lost papers, how sup liod. 4930. The Clerk must keep a register of
4924. Papers without the t tle 0! the uc- actions.
tion, or with defective title may be 4931. Two cl three referees, etc., may do
valid. any act.
4925. Successive actions on the same con- 4932. The time within which an act is to
tract, etc. be due ma be extended.
4926. Consolidation 0! several actions in- 4933. Actions aga nst s. Sheriﬂ for oﬂicial
to one. acts.
4927. Actions. when deemed pending. 4934. Undertakings mentioned in this
4928. Actions todetermine adverseclaims Code, requisites oi.
and by sureties. 4935. People not required to give bonds
4929. Testimony, when to be taken by the when Territory is s party.
Clerk.
SECTION 4923. If an original pleading or
the court may authorize a copy thereof to be
instead of the original.
4936. Buretias, when substituted.
gape!‘ be lost.
led and used
Sac. 4924. An aiiidavit, notice, or other paper, without
the title of the action or proceeding in which it is made, or
with a defective title, is as valid and effectual for any pur
pose as if duly entitled, if it intelligently refer to such action
or proceedin .
SEC. 492;. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.
SEC. 4926. Whenever two or more actions are pending
at one time between the same parties and in the same court,
upon cause of action which might have been joined, the
court may order the actions to be consolidated.
_ SEC. 4927. An action is deemed to be pending from the
time of its commencement until its ﬁnal determination upon
apgeal, or until the time for appeal has passed, unless the
ju gment is sooner satisﬁed.
3.
C
SEC. 4928. An action may be brought by one person
ainst another for the purpose of determining an adverse
aim, which the latter makes against the former for money
or property upon an alleged obligation; and also against two
or moredpersons, for the purpose of compelling one to satisfy
a debt ue to the other, for which plaintifff is bound as a
surety.
SEC. 4929. On the trial of an action in a court of record,
if there is no short-hand re orter of the court in attendance,
the court may require the lerk to take down the testimony
in writin .
SEC. 4530. The Clerk must keep among the records of
the court a register of actions. He must enter therein the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to
time, of all papers ﬁled and proceedings had therein.
SEC. 4931. When there are three referees, or three
arbitrators, all must meet, but two of them may do any act
which mi ht be done by all.
SEC. 4 32. When an act to be done, as provided in this
Code, relates to the pleadings in the action, or the under
takings to be ﬁled, or the justiﬁcation of sureties, or the
preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or of
amendments thereto, or to the service of notices, other than
of appeal, the time allowed by this Code may be extended,
upon good cause shown, by the court in which the action is
pending, or the Judge thereof.
SEC. 4933. If an action is brought against a Sheriff for
an act done by virtue of his oﬁice, and he gives written no
tice thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity re
ceived by him, the judgment recovered therein is conclusive
evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and
the court, or Judge in vacation, may, on motion, upon notice
of ﬁve days, order judgment to be entered up against them
for the amount so recovered, including costs.
SEC. 4934. In all cases where an undertaking, with
sureties, is required by the provisions of this Code, the ofﬁcer
taking the same, must require the sureties to accompany it
with an afﬁdavit that they are each residents and house
holders or freeholders wit in the Territory, and each are
worth the sum speciﬁed in the undertaking, over and above
alltheir just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property ex
empt from execution; but when the amount speciﬁed in the
undertaking exceeds two thousand dollars, and there are
more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their
aﬂidavits that they are severally wort amounts less than
that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be
equivalent to that of two suﬂicient sureties.
SEC. 4935. In any civil action or proceeding wherein
the Territor -or the people of the Territory is a party plain
tiff, or any erritorial ofﬁcer, in his ofﬁcial capacity, or on
behalf of the Territory, or an county, or city, is a party
plaintiﬂ’ or defendant, no bon , written undertaking, or se
curity can be required of the Territory, or the people there
of, or any oﬂicer thereof, or of any county, or city; but on
complying with the other provisions of this Code, the Terri
tory; or the people thereof, or any Territorial officer acting
in is oﬂicial capacity, or any county or city, have the
same rights, remedies, and beneﬁts as if the bond, under
takin , or security were given and approved as required by
this ode.
SEC. 4936. Whenever any surety on an undertaking on
appeal, executed to stay proceedings upon a money judg
ment, pa s the judgment, either with or without action, af
ter its a rmation by the Appellate Court, he is substituted
to the rights of the jud ent creditor, and is entitled to con
trol, enforce, and satis y such judgments in all respects as
if he had recovered the same.
SECTION 4955. The party prosecuting as ecial proceed
ing may be known as the plaintiﬂ:', and thea verse party as
the defendant.
Sac. 4956. A jud ment in aspecial proceeding is the
ﬁnal determination o the rights of the parties therein.
The deﬁnitions of a motion and an order in a civil action
are applicable to similar acts in a special proceeding.
TITLE I.
OF WRITS OF REVIEW, MANDATE AND PROHIBI
TION.
Sncrion
4915!. Writ of review defined.
CHAPTER I.
Wurr or REVIEW.
4962. When and by what courts granted.
4963. Application for, how made.
4964. The writ to be directed to the infer
ior tribunal, etc.
4965. Contents of the writ.
4966. Proceedin s in inferior court may
he stay , or not.
4967. Service of the writ. .
SECTION 4961. The writ of certiorari may be denomin
ated the writ of review.
SEC. 4962. A writ of review may be granted by any
court except a Probate or J ustice’s Court, when an inferior
tribunal, board or officer exercising 'udicial functions, has
exceeded the jurisdiction of such tri unal, board or ofﬁcer,
and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court,
ansy plain, s eedy and adequate remedy.
no. 496%. The ap lication must be made on aﬂidavit
by the party beneﬁcia y interested, and the court may re
quire a notice of the application to be given to the adverse
part , or may grant an order to show cause why it should
not e allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.
SEC. 4964. The writ may be directed to the inferior tri
bunal. board or oﬁicer, or to any other person havin the
custody of the record or proceedings to be certiﬁed. hen
directed to a tribunal, the Clerk, if there be one, must return
the writ with the transcript required.
SECTION
4968. Th? review under the writ, extent
0 .
-L969. A defective return of the writ may
be perfected. Hearing and judg
ment.
4970. Copy of judgment must be sent to
the inferior tribunal.
-1971. Judgment rolls.
SEC. 4965. The writ of review must command the par
tg to whom it is directed to certify fully to the courtissuing
t e writ, at a speciﬁed time and place, a transcript of the
record and proceedings (describing or referring to them
with convenient certainty), that the same may be reviewed
by the court and requirin the party in the meantime to
desist from further procee ings in the matter to be re
viewed.
SEC. 4966. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the
words requiring the stay must be omitted from the writ;
these words may be inserted or omitted in the sound discre
tion of the court, but if omitted, the power of the inferior
court or oﬁicer is not suspended or the roceedings stayed.
SEC. 4967. The writ must be served) in the same man
ner as a summons in civil action except when otherwise ex
pressly directed by the court.
SEC. 4968. The review upon this writ cannot be extend
ed further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal,
board or ofﬁcer has regularly pursued the authority of such
tribunal, board or ofﬁcer.
SEC. 4969. If the return of the writ be defective, the
court may order a further return to be made. When a full
return has been made, the court must hear the parties, or
such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may there
u on give judgment, either aﬂirming, or annulling, or mod
i ying the roceedings below.
SEC. 49 O. A copy of the judgment signed by the Clerk,
must be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board or officer
having the custody of the record or proceedings certiﬁed
up.
SEC. 4971. A cop of the judgment signed by the Clerk,
entered upon or attac ed to the writ and return, constitute
the judgment roll. '
SECTION 4976. The writ of mandamus may be denom
inated a writ of mandate.
SEC. 4977. It may be issued by any court except a J us
tice’s or Probate Court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board or person, to compel the erformance of an act which
the law especially enjoins as a uty resulting from an office,
trust or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the
use and the enjoyment of a right or oﬂice to which he is entitled, and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such
inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person.
SEC. 4978. The writ must be issued in all cases where
there is not a plain, speedy and adequate remedy in the or
dinary course of law. It must be issued upon afﬁdavit, on
the application of the party beneﬁcially interested.
SEC. 4979. The writ may be either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ must state generally the al
legation against the party to whom it is directed, and coin
mand such party immediately after the receipt of the writ,
or at some other s eciﬁed time, to do the act required to be
performed, or to s ow cause before the court at a speciﬁed
time and place, why he has not done so. The perem tory
writ must be in a similar form except that the wor s re
quiring the party to show cause why he has not done as
commanded must be omitted, and a return day inserted.
SEC. 4980. When the application to the court is made
without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed
the alternative must be ﬁrst issued; but if the application
be upon due notice and the writ be allowed, the peremptory
may be issued in the ﬁrst instance. The notice of the ap
plication, when given, must be at least ten days. The writ
cannot be granted by default. The case must be heard by
the court whether the adverse party appear or not.
SEC. 4981. On the return of the alternative, or the day
on which the application of the writ is noticed, the party
on whom the writ or notice has been served may show cause
by answer, under oath, made in the same manner as an an
swer to a complaint in a civil action.
SEC. 4982. If an answer be made which raises a ques
tion as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of
the motion and affecting the substantial rights of the par
ties, and upon the su posed truth of the allegation of which
the application for t e writ is based, the court may, 111 its
discretion, order the question to be tried before a jury and
post one the argument until such trial can be had and the
ver ict certiﬁed to the court. The question to be tried must
be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the county
must be designated in which the same shall be had. The
order may also direct the jury to assess any damages which
tlhe applicant may have sustained in case they ﬁnd for
1m.
SEC. 4983. On the trial, the applicant is not precluded
by the answer from any valid objection to its suﬁcienc ,
and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or y
way of avoidance.
SEC. 4984. The motion for new trial must be made in
the court in which the issue of fact is tried.
SEC. 4985. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be
given, or if given, the motion be denied, the clerk, within
ve days after rendition of the verdict or denial of the mo
tion, must transmit to the court in which the application for
the writ is pendin , a certiﬁed copy of the ver 1ct attached
to the order of tries; after which either party may bring on
the argument of the application, upon reasonable notice to
the adverse artly.
SEC. 498;. f no answer be made, the case must be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If the answer raises
only questions of law, or puts in issue immaterial state
ments, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties,
the court must proceed to hear or ﬁx a day for hearing the
ar ment of the case.
bnc. 4987. If judgment be given for the ap licant, he
may recover the damages which he has sustained}, as found
by the jury, or as may be determined by the court or
referee, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs;
and for such damages and costs an execution may issue;
gnld a peremptory mandate must also be awarded without
e ay. SEO.
4988. The writ must be served in the same man
ner as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by order of the court. Service upon a
majority of the members of any board or body is service
upon the board or body, whether at the time of the service
the board or bod was in session or not.
SEC. 4989. hen a peremptory mandate has been is
sued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board or person, if it appear to the court that any menber of
such tribunal, corporatlon or board, or such person upon
Whom the writ has been personally served, has, Without just
excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court
ma , upon motion, imposeaﬁne not exceedin one thousand
dol ars. In case of persistence in a refusa of obedience,
the court may order the party to be imprisoned until the
writ is obeyed, and may make any orders, necessary and
proper for the complete enforcement of the writ.
SECTION 4994. The writ of prohibition is the counterpart
of the writ of mandate. It arrests the proceedings of an
tribunal, corgloration, board, or person, when such procee in s are wit out or in excess of the jurisdiction of such
tri unal, corporation, board or person.
SEC. 4995. It may be issued b any court except Pro
bate or Justices’ Courts, to an in erior tribunal, or to a
corporation, board, or person, in all cases where there is not
a plain, s eedy, and ade uate remedy in the ordinary
course of aw. It is issue upon aiﬁdavit, on the applica
tion of the erson beneﬁcially interested.
Sac. 49 6. The writ must be either alternative or per
emptory. The alternative writ must state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and
command such party to desist or refrain from further pro
ceedings in the action or matter s eciﬁed therein, until the
further order of the court from w ich it is issued, and to
show cause before such court, at a speciﬁed time, and place,
why such party should not be absolutely restrained from
any further proceedings in such action or matter. The per
emptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the
words requiring the party to show cause why he should not
be absolute] restrained, etc., must be omitted and a return
da inserte .
5,1310. 4997. The provisions of the preceding sections
from 4980 to 4989, both inclusive, apply to the proceedings
for writ of prohibition.
CHAPTER IV.
THESE WRITS MAY Issus AND BE HEARD AT CHAMBERS.
Bno-nos
5000. Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition may issue and be heard at chambers.
SECTION 5000. Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition
may be issued by any of the Justices of the Supreme Court,
or by any District Judge, in vacation, and may, in the dis
cretion of the Justice or Judge issuin the writ, be made re
turnable and a hearing thereon be ha in vacation.
SECTION 5005. Exce t as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of this ode relative to civil actions in the
District Court, are applicable to and constitute the rules of
practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Title.
SEC. 5006. The Provisions of this Code relative to new
trials in and appeals from the District Court, except in and
so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Title, apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Title.
SECTION 5026. Any elector of a county, precinct, or
city, may contest the right of any erson declared elected
to an ofﬁce to be exercised therein, or any of the following
grounds:
1. For malconduct on the part of the Board of Judges, or
any member thereof;
2. When the person whose right to the oiﬁce is con
tegsited was not, at the time of the election, eligible to such
o ce;
3. When the person whose right is contested has given
to any Elector or Inspector, Judge, or Clerk of the elec
tion, any bribe or reward, or has offered any such bribe or
reward or the purpose of procurin his election. or has com
mitted any other offense against t e elective franchise de
ﬁned by law;
4. On account of illegal votes.
SEC. 5027. No irregularity or improper conduct in the
proceedings of the Judges, or any of them, is such malconduct
as avoids an election, unless the irregularity or im
pro er conduct is such as to procure the person whose right
to t e oﬁice is contested, to be declared elected, when he had
not received the highest number of legal votes.
SEC. 5028. When any election held for an ofﬁce exer
cised in and for a countfy is contested on account of any
malconduct on the part o the Board of Judges of any pre
cinct election, or any member thereof, the election cannot
be annulled and set aside u on any proof thereof, unless the
rejection of the vote of suc recinct, or precincts, would
change the result as to such o ce in the remaining vote of
the count .
SEC. 5 29. Nothing in the fourth ground of contest is
to be so construed as to authorize an election to be set aside
on account of illegal votes, unless it appear that a number
of ille al votes has been given to the person whose ri ht to
the o 'ce is contested, which, if taken from him, wou d re
duce the number of his legal votes below the number of
votes given to some other erson for the same ofﬁce, after
deducting therefrom the il egal votes which may be shown
to have been given to such other person.
SEC. 5030. When an elector contests the right of any
person declared elected to such oﬁice, he must, within fort
days after the return day of the election, ﬁle with the Clerk
of the District Court for the county a written statement,
setting forth speciﬁcally:
1. he name of the party contesting such election, and
that he is an elector of the district, county, or precinct, as
the case may be, in which such election was held;
2. The name of the person whose right to the oﬂice is
contested;
3. The oﬁice;
4. The particular rounds of such contest; which state
ment must be veriﬁe b the contestin party.
SEC. 5031. Whent e reception 0 1 legal votes is al
leged as a cause of contest, it is suiﬁcient to state generally
that in one or more speciﬁed precincts illegal votes were
given to the person whose election is contested, which, if
taken from him, will reduce the number of his legal votes
given to some other person for the same oﬂice; but no testi
mony can be received of any illegal votes, unless the party
contesting such election deliver to the opposite party, at
least three days before such trial, a written list of the num
ber of illegal votes, and by whom given, which he intends
to prove on such trial; and no testimony can be received of
an illegal votes except such as are speciﬁed in such list.
EC. 5032. No statement of the grounds of contest will
be rejected, nor the proceedings dismissed by an court for
want of form, if the grounds of contest are al eged with
such certainty as will advise the defendant of the particu
lar proceeding or cause for which such election is contested.
SEC. 5033. Upon the statement being ﬁled, the Clerk
must issue a summons as in a civil action, which, together
with a certiﬁed copy of the statement, shall be delivered to
the Sheriff of the county and be served upon the party
whose right to the ofﬁce is contested, in person, or, if he
cannot be found, by leaving a copy thereof at the house
where he last resided.
SEC. 5034. The Clerk must issue subpoenas for wit
nesses at the request of either party, which must be served
as other subpoenas; and the court has full power to issue
attachments to compel the attendance of witnesses who
have been subpoenaed to attend.
SEC. 5035. The court must, at the opening of its next
regular term for the county, proceed to determine such con
tested election, and shall have all the powers necessaryto
the determination thereof.
SEC. 5036. The court must be governed, in the trial
and determination of such contested election, by the rules
of law and evidence governing the determination of ques
tions of law and fact, so far as the same may be applicable;
and may dismiss the proceedings if the statement of the
cause or causes of the contest is msuﬁicient, or for want of
prosecution. After hearing the proofs and allegations of
the parties, the court must pronounce judgment in the
premises, either conﬁrming or annulling and setting aside
such election.
SEC. 5037. If in any such case it ap ears that another
erson than the one returned has the ighest number of
egal votes, the court must declare such person elected.
SE0. 5038. The Clerk, Sheriff and witnesses shall re
ceive, respectively, the same fees, from the party against
whom 'udgment is given, as are allowed for similar services
in the istrict Court.
SEC. 5039. If the proceedings are dismissed for insuﬂi
ciency or want of rosecution, or the election is by the
court conﬁrmed, ju ment must be rendered against the
party contesting suc election, for costs, in favor of the
party whose election was contested; but if the election is
annulled and set aside, judgment for costs must be rendered
against the party whose election was contested, in favor of
the party contesting the same. Primarily each party is
liable for the costs created by himself, to the oﬂicers and
witnesses entitled thereto, which may be collected in the
same manner as similar costs are collected in other cases.
SEC. 5040. Either party aggrieved by the judgment of
the court, may a eal therefrom as in other cases.
SEC. 5041. henever an election is annulled or set
aside by the jud ent of the District Court, and ten days
have elapsed an no appeal has been taken, the commission
if any has been issued, is void.
SEC. 5042. Any elector of a district ma in like man
ner contest the right of any erson declared e ected to a dis
trict ofﬁce for like causes. uch contest shall be made and
heard before any District Court or Judge of the District in
any county of the district.
SECTIQN 5060. A judgment by confession may be en
tered without action, either for money due or to become
due, or to secure an person against contingent liability on
behalf of the defen ant, or bot , in the manner prescribed
by this chapter. Such judgment may be entered in any
court having Jurisdiction for like amounts.
SEC. 5061. A statement in writingmust be made, signed
b§ the defendant and veriﬁed by his oath, to the following
e ect:
1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for a speci
ﬁed sum;
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which it arose, and show that the
sum confessed therefore is justly due or to become due;
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts con
stituting the liability, and show that the sum confessed
therefore does not exceed the same.
SEC. 5062. The statement must be ﬁled with the Clerk
of the Court in which the judgment is to be entered, who
must endorse u on it and enter in the judgment book, a
judgment of suc court for the amount confessed, with ﬁve
dollars costs. The statement and aﬂidavit with the judg
ment indorsed, thereu on becomes the jud ent roll.
SEC. 5063. In a robate or Justices’ ourt, where the
court has the authority to enter the udgment, the statement
may be ﬁled with the court or Justlce, who must thereupon
enter in his docket a jud ment of his court for the amount
confessed, with three do ars costs. If a transcript of such
judgment be ﬁled with the District Clerk, a copy of the
statement must be ﬁled with it.
CHAPTER II.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY Wrrnour ACTION.
Sscrrox
5070. Judgment may be enforced or ap
pealed from.
Br-.o'rrou
5068. Controversy, how submitted with
out action.
5069. Judgment on, as in other cases.
SECTION 5068. Parties to a question in difference, which
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without action,
agreeu on acase containing the facts upon whic_h the contro
versy epends, and resent a submission of the same to any
court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought; but it must appear by aﬂidavit, that the contro
versy 1s real and the proceedings in good faith, to deter
mine the rights of the parties. The court must thereupon
hear and determine the case and render judgment thereon,
as if an action where depending.
SEC. 5069. Judgment must be entered in the judgment
book as 1n other cases, but without costs for any proceeding
prior to the trial. The case, the submission and a copy of
the jud ment constitute the judgment roll.
SEC. 070. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and is in the
same manner subject to appeal.
CHAPTER III.
DISCHARGE 01-‘ PERSONS Imrmsonmn ON CIVIL Pnoonss.
Sscnox Slwrron
6075. Persons conﬂnedmay be discharged. 5082. It not discharged. prisoner may
5076. Notice of application. again appl , when.
5077. Service oi notice. 5083. Discharge, nal.
5078. Examination before Judge. 5084. Judgment remains in force.
5079. Interrogawries may be in writing. 5085. Plaintiff may order discharge oi
5080. Oath to be administered. risonsr.
5081. Order 0! discharge. 5086. P aintiﬂ to advance funds for sup
port of prisoner.
SECTION 5075. Any person conﬁned in jail on an execu
tion issued on a jud ment rendered in a civil action, must
be discharged there rom upon the conditions in this chapter
speciﬁed.
SEC. 5076. Such person must cause a notice in writing
to be given to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, that at a
certain time and place he will ap ly to the Judge of the Dis
trict Court of the county in whic such person may be con
ﬁned; or, in case of his absence or inability to act, to the
Judge of the Probate Court of the county in which such per
son may be imprisoned, for the purpose of obtaining a dis
charge from h1S imprisonment.
SEC. 5077. Such notice must be served u on the
tiff, his agent or attorney, one day at least be ore the
in of the application.
§EC. 5078. At the time and place speciﬁed in the notice,
such person must be taken before such Judge, who must ex
amine him under oath concerning his estate, and property,
and effects, and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay
the judgment for which he is committed, or any art there
of, and such Judge may also hear any other lega and per
tinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or
the creditor.
SEC. 5079. The plaintifff in the action may, upon such
examination, propose to the prisoner any interro atories
ertinent to the inquiry, and they must, if required y him,
he proposed and answered in writing and the answer must
be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.
SEC. 5080. If, upon the examination, the Judge is sat
isﬁed that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, he must
administer to him the following oath, to wit: “I, ——i
do solemnly swear that I have not any estate, real or per
sonal, to the amount of ﬁfty dollars, except such as is by
law exempted from being taken in execution; and that I
lain
ear
have not any other estate now conveyed or concealed, or in
any way disposed of, with design to secure the same to my
use, or to hinder, delay, or defraud my creditors, so help
me God.”
SEC. 5081. After administering the oath the Judge
must issue a order that the prisoner be discharged from cus
tody, and the officer upon the service of such order, must
discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for no
other cause.
SEC. 5082. If such Judge does not discharge the prison
er, he may apply for his discharge at the end of every suc
ceeding thirty days, in the same manner as above provided
and the same proceedings must thereupon be had.
SEC. 5083. The prisoner after being so discharged, is
forever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the same
debt, unless he be convicted of having willfully sworn false
1y upon his examination before the Judge, or 111 taking the
oath before prescribed.
SEC. 5084. The jud ent against any prisoner who is
discharged, remains in ull force a ainst any estate which
may then or at any time afterwar during the life of the
judgment belong to him, and the plaintifff may take out a
new execution against the goods and estate of the prisoner
in like manner as if he had never been committed.
SEC. 5085. The plaintifff in" the action may at any time
order the prisoner to be discharged, and he is not thereafter
liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.
SEC. 5086. Whenever a erson is committed to jail on
an execution issued on a ju gment recovered in a civil ac
tion, the creditor, his agent or attorney must advance to the
jailer on such commitment, sufficient money for the board
of the prisoner at the rate provided by law, for one week,
and must make the like advance for every successive week
of his im risonment; and in case of failure to do so, the jailer
must fort with discharge such prisoner from custody, and
such discharge has the same effect as if made by order of
the creditor.
CHAPTER IV.
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS FOR OBTAINING POSSESSION or REAL
PROPERTY.
Samoa SECTION
5091 . Forclble entry deﬁned. 5102. Jud ent by default.
5092. Forcibls detainer deﬁned. 5103. Tri by jury.
5093. Unlawful detainer deﬁned. 5104. Showing required.
5094. Service of notice. 5105 . Complaint must be amended in cer
5095. Courts have jurisdiction. tain cases.
5096. Same. 5106. Verdict and judgment.
5097. Same. 5107. Verification of complaint and an
509B. Parties defendant. swer.
5099. Parties generally. 5108. Effect of appeal upoujthe judgment.
5100. Complaint and summons. 5109. Rules of practice. Appeals, how
5101 . Arrest. taken, etc.‘
SECTION 5091. Evey person is guilty of a forcible entry
who either:
1. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts of a
house, or by any kind of violence or circumstance of terror
enters upon or into any real pro erty; or, 2. VVho, after entering peacea ly upon real property,
turns out -by force, threats, or menacing conduct, the party
in possession.
SEC. 5092. Every person is guilty of a forcible detainer
who either:
1. B force, or b menaces and threats of violence, un
lawful y holds and eeps possession of any real property,
whether the same was acquired peacefully or otherwise; or,
2. Who, in the night time, or during the absence of the
occupant of any lands, unlawfull enters upon real property,
and who, after demand made or the surrender thereof,
for the period of ﬁve days, refuses to surrender the same to
such former occu ant.
The occupant 0 real property, within the meaning of this subdivision, is one who, within ﬁve days preceding such
unlawful entry, was in the peaceable and undisturbed pos
session of such lands.
SEC. 5093. A tenant of real roperty, for a term less
than life, is guilty of an unlawful etainer:
1. When he continues in possession, in person or by sub
-tenant, of the property, or any part thereo , after the expir
ation of the term for which it is let to him, without the per
mission of his landlord, or the successor in estate of his
landlord, if any there be; but in case of a tenancy at will,
it must ﬁrst be terminated by notice, as prescribed in the
Civil Code ; .
2. Where he continues in possession, in person or by subtenant,
without permission of his landlord, or the successor
in estate of his landlord, if any there be, after default in the
payment of rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under
which the property is held, and three days’ notice, in writ
ing, requiring its payment, stating the amount which is due,
or possession of t e property, shall have been served upon
him, and if there be a sub-tenant in actual occupation of
the premises, also upon such sub-tenant. Such notice may
be served at any time within one year after the rent be
comes due. In all cases of tenancy upon agricultural lands,
where the tenant has held over and retained ossession for
more than sixty days after the expiration of is term with
out any demand of possession or notice to quit b the land
lord, or the successor in estate of his landlord, i any there
be, he shall be deemed to be holding by permission of the
landlord, or the successor in estate of his landlord, if any
there be, and shall be entitled to hold under the terms of the
lease for another full year, and shall not be uilty of an
unlawful detainer during said year, and such oldmg over
for the period aforesaid shall be taken and construed as a
consent on the part of a tenant to hold for another year;
3. Where he continues in‘ ossession in person, or by sub
tenants, after a neglect or ailure to perform other condi
tions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which
the pro erty is held, including any covenant not to assign
or sub et, than the one for payment of rent, and three
days’ notice, in writing, requiring the performance of such
conditions or covenants, or the possession of the propert ,
shall have been served upon him, and if there be a su tenant
in actual occupation of the premises, also upon such
sub-tenant. Within three days after the service of the
notice, the tenant, or any sub-tenant in actual occupation of
the premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or other erson
interested in its continuance, may perform the con itions
or covenants of the lease, or pay the stipulated rent. as the
case may be, and thereby save the lease from forfeiture;
rovided if the covenants and conditions of the lease, vio
ated by the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no
notice, at last prescribed herein, need be given .to said lessee
or his sub-tenant demanding the performance of the vio
lated covenant or conditions of the lease. A tenant may
take proceedings similar to those rescribed in this chapter,
to obtain possession of premises et to an undertenant, in
ﬁase of his unlawful detention of the premises underlet to
im.
4. A tenant or sub-tenant, assigning or sub-letting, or
committing waste upon the demised premises, contrary to
the covenants of his ease, thereby terminates the lease, and
the landlord, or his successor in estate, shall, upon service
of three days’ notice to quit, upon the person or_ persons in
possession, be entitled to restitution of possession of such
emised remises under the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 5 94. The notices required by the preceding sec
tion may be served, either:
1. B delivering a copy to the tenant personally; or,
2. I he be absent from his place of residence and from
his usual place of business, by leaving a copy with some
person of suitable age and discretion at either place, and
sending a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant at
his place of residence; or, if such place of residence and bus
iness cannot be ascertained, or a erson of suitable age or
discretion cannot be found there, t en by affixing a copy in
a conspicuous place on the property, and also delivering a
copy to a person there residing, if such person can be found;
and also sending a copy through the mail addressed to the
tenant at the place where the property is situated. Service
upon a sub-tenant ma be made in ‘the same manner. _
SEC. 5095. The istrict Court of the county in which
the pro erty or some part of it, is situated, has jurisdiction of
procee ings under this chapter. _
SEC. 5096. The Probate Court of the county in which
the property, or some part of it, is situated, has jurisdiction
of proceedings under this chapter when the whole amount
Sf Ii-ent and amages claimed does not exceed ﬁve hundred
o ars.
SEC. 5097. Justices’ Courts have jurisdiction of pro
ceedings under this chapter where the whole amount of
rierlilt and damages claimed does not exceed three hundred
o ars.
SEC. 5098. No person other than the tenant of the prem
ises, and sub-tenant, if there be one, in the actual occu a
tion of the premises when the notice herein provided or
was served, need be made parties defendant in the roceed
ing, nor shall any proceedin abate nor the plainti be non
suited for the non-joinder o any persons who might have
been made parties defendant; but when it appears that
any of the parties served with process or appearin in the
proceeding are (guilty of the offense charged, ju gment
must be rendere against him. Any person who shall be
come a sub-tenant of the premises or any part thereof after
the service of notice as provided in this cha ter shall be .
In case a marrie woman be a
bound by the judgment.
tenant or a sub-tenant, her coverture shall constitute no de
fense; but in case her husband be not joined, or unless she
be doing business as a sole trader; and execution issued up
on a personal judgment against her, can only be enforced
against property on the premises at the commencement of
the action.
SEC. 5099. Except as provided in the preceding section
the provisions of this Code, relating to parties to civil ac
tions, are ap licable to thisJroceeding.
SEC. 510 . The plainti in his complaint, which shall
be in writing, must set forth the facts on which he seeks to
recover and describe the premises with reasonable certainty
and may set forth therein any circumstances of fraud, force,
or violence which may have accom anied the alleged forci
ble entry, ,or forcible or unlawful etainer, and claim dam
ages therefore. In case the unlawful detainer charged be af
ter default in the ayment of rent, the complaint must state
the amount of suc rent. Upon ﬁlin the complaint, a sum
mons must be issued thereon returna le as in other cases.
SEC. 5101. If the complaint presented establishes, to
the satisfaction of the Judge or Justice, fraud, force, or vi
olence in the entry or detainer, and that the possession held
is unlawful, he may make an order for the arrest of the de
fendant.
SEC. 5102. If, at the time appointed, the defendant do
not appear and defend, the court must enter his default and
render judgment in favor of the plaintiﬁ as prayed for in
the com laint.
SEC. 103. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by
the pleadings, it must be tried by a jury, unless such jury
be waived as in other cases. The jury shall be formed in
the same manner as other trial juries in the court in which
the action is pending;
SEC. 5104. On t e trial of any proceeding for any forci
ble entry or forcible detainer, the laintiﬂf shall only be re
guired to show, in addition to the orcible entry or forcible
etainer complained of, that he was peaceably in the actual
possession at the time of the forcible entry, or was entitled
to the possession at the time of the forcible detainer. The
defendant may show in his defense that he or his ancestors,
or those whose interest in such premises he claims, have
been in the quiet possession thereof for the space of one
whole ear together next before the commencement of the
procee 'ngs, and that his interest therein, is not then ended
or determined; and such showing is a bar to the proceedings.
SEC. 5105. When upon the trial of any proceeding un
der this chapter, it a pears from the evidence that the de
fendant has been gm ty of either a forcible entry or a forci
ble or unlawful detainer, and other than the offense charged
in the complaint, the Judge must order that such complaint
be forthwith amended to conform to such proofs. Such
amendment must be without any imposition of terms. No
continuance shall be permitted upon account of such amend
ment, unless the defendant, by afﬁdavit ﬁled, shows to the
satisfaction of the court ood cause therefore.
SEC. 5106. If, upon t e trial, the verdict of the jury, or,
if the case be tried without a jury, the ﬁndin of the court,
be in favor of the plaintifff and against the de endant, judg
567
ment shall be entered for the restitution of the premises;
and if the proceeding be for an unlawful detainer after neg
lect or failure to per orm the conditions or covenants of the
lease or agreement under which the property is held, or af
ter default in the payment of rent, the judgment shall also
declare the forfeiture of such lease or agreement. The jury
or the court, if the proceeding be tried without a jur , shall
also assess the damages occasioned to the plaintifff y any
forcible entry, or by any forcible or unlawful detainer, a ~
leged in the complaint, and roved on the trial and ﬁnd the
amount of any rent due, if t e alleged unlawful detainer be
after default in the payment of rent, and the judgment
shall be rendered against the defendant guilty of the forci
ble entry, or forcible or unlawful detainer, for three times
the amount of the damages thus assessed, and of the rent
found due. When the proceeding is for an unlawful de
tainer after default in the payment of rent, and the lease or
agreement under which the rent is payable has not by its
terms ex ired, execution u on the judgment shall not be is
sued unti the expiration 0 ﬁve days after the entry of the
judgment, within which time the tenant, or any sub-tenant,
or any mortgagee of the term, or other party interested in
its continuance, may pay into court, for the landlord, the
amount found due as rent, with interest thereon, and the
amount- of the damages found by the fjury or the court for
the unlawful detainer, and the costs 0 the proceeding, and
thereupon the judgment shall be satisﬁed and the tenant be
restored to his estate; but, if payment, as here Provided, be
not made within the ﬁve days, the judgment may be en
forced for its full amount, and for the possession of the
premises. In all other cases the judgment may be enforced
immediately.
SEC. 5107. The complaint and answer must be veriﬁed.
SEC. 5108. An appeal taken by the defendant does not
stay proceedings upon the judgment unless the court so di
rects.
. SEO. 5109. The rovisions of this Code, relative to civil
actions, appeals, an new trials, so far as they are not in
consistent with the provisions of this chapter, apply to the
proceedings mentioned in this chapter.
SECTION 5125. Every person performing labor upon, or
furnishing materials to be used in the construction, altera
tion, or repair of any mining claim, building, wharf, bridge,
ditch, ﬂume, tunnel, fence, machinery, railroad, wa on
road, aqueduct, to create hydraulic power, or any ot er
structure, or who performs labor in any mining claim, has
a lien upon the same for the work or labor done or materials
furnished by each respectively, whether done or furnished
at the instance of the owner of the building or other im
rovement, or his agent but the aggregate amount of such
‘ens must not exceed the amount which the owner would
be otherwise liable to pay.
SEC. 5126. Any sub-contractor, material man, laborer,
or other person, performin labor or furnishing materials for
a contractor who is entitle to a lien under the rovisions of
the last section, may, at any time, serve upon t e owner, or
his agent, or the person employing the contractor, written
notice of the amount due him for such labor or materials, and
such sub-contractor, material man, laborer, or other er
son, may have a lien for such amount, but not excee in
the amount then or thereafter due such contractor from suc
owner, or person employing him, under the contract. And
any person furnishing materials, or performing labor for a
sub-contractor, may, by like notice to the contractor, be
subrogated to the rights of such sub-contractor.
SEC. 5127. Any person who, at the request of the owner
of any lot in any incorporated city or town, grades, ﬁlls in,
or otherwise improves the same, or the street in front of or
adjoinin the same, has a lien upon such lot for his work
done an materials furnished.
SEC. 5 128. The land upon which any building, improve
ment, or structure is constructed, together with a con
venient space about the same, or so much as may be re
quired for the convenient use and occugation thereof, is also
subject to the liens, if, at the time of t e commencement of
the work or of the furnishing of the materials for the same,
the land belonged to the person who caused said building,
improvement, or structure to be constructed; altered, or re
paired; but if such gerson owned less than a fee simple es
tate in such land, t en only his interest therein is subject to
such lien.
SEC. 5129. The liens provided for in this chapter are
preferred to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance
which may have attached subsequent to the time when the
building, improvement, structure or work was commenced
or materials were commenced to be furnished; also, to any
lien, mort age, or other encumbrance of which the lien
holder ha no notice, and which was unrecorded at the
time the building, improvement, or structure was com
menced, work done, or the materials were commenced to be
furnished.
SEC. 5130. Every original contractor, within sixty days
after the completion of his contract, and every person, save
the original contractor, claimin the beneﬁt of this chapter,
must, within thirty days after t e completion of any build
ing, improvement, or structure, or after the completion of
the alteration or re air thereof, or the performance of any
labor in a mining c aim, ﬁle for record with the County Re
corder of the county in which such property, or some art
thereof, is situated, a claim containing a statement o his
demand, after deducting all just credits and off-sets, with
the name of the owner or reputed owner, if known, and also
the name of the person by whom he was employed or to
whom he furnished the material, with a statement of the
terms, time given, and conditions of his contract, and also a
description of the property to be charged with the lien, suf
ﬁcient for identiﬁcation, which claim must be veriﬁed by the
oath of himself or some other person.
SEC. 5131. In every case in which one claim is ﬁled
against two or more bulldings, mining claims, or other im
provements owned by the same erson, the person ﬁling
such claim must at the same time designate the amount due
to him on each of such buildings, mining claims or other im
provements; otherwise, the lien of such claim is postponed
to other liens. The lien of such claimant does not extend
beyond the amount designated, as against other creditors
having liens, by judgment, mortgage, or otherwise, upon
either of such buildings or other improvements, or upon the
land upon which the same are situated.
SEC. 5132. The Recorder must record the claim in a
book kept b him for that purpose, which record must be
indexed as eeds and other conveyances are required by
law to be indexed, and for which he may receive the same
fees as are allowed by law for recording deeds and other
instruments.
SEC. 5133. No lien provided for in this Title, binds any
building, mining claim, im rovement or structure, for a
longer period t an ninety) ays after the same has been
ﬁle , unless proceedings e commenced in a proper court
within that time to enforce the same; or, if a credit be iv
en, then ninety days after the expiration of such credit; ut
no lien continues 1n force for a longer time than two years
from the time the work is completed, by any agreement to
give credit.
SEC. 5134. All persons entitled to liens on the structure
or improvement, except those who contracted with the own
er thereof, are sub-contractors, and the court in the judg
ment must direct the amount due sub-contractors to be paid
out of the proceeds of sales before any part of such proceeds
are paid to the contractor.
SEC. 5135. The contractor shall be entitled to recover
upon a lien ﬁled by him, only such amount as may be due
to him according to the terms of his contract, after deduct
ing all claims of other parties for work done and materials
furnished, as aforesaid; and in all cases where a lien shall
be ﬁled under this Title for work done or materials furnished
to any contractor, he shall defend any action brought there
upon at his own expense; and during the pendency of such
action, the owner may withhold from the contractor the
amount of money for which the lien is ﬁled; and in case of
judgment against the owner or his roperty, upon the lien,
the said owner shall be entitled to dleduct from any amount
due, or to become due by him to the contractor, the amount
of such 'udgment and costs.
SEC. £136. In every case in which different liens are
asserted against any propert , the court in the judgment
must declare the rank of eac lien, or class of liens, which
shall be in the following order, viz.: First, All persons
other than the original contractors and sub-contractors.
Second, The sub-contractors. Third, The original contract
ors. And the proceeds of the sale of the pro erty must be
ap lied to each lien, or class of liens, in the or er of its rank,
an wheneveron the sale of the pro erty subject to the lien
there is a deﬁciency of proceeds, ju gment may be docketed
for the deﬁciency 1n like manner and with like effect as in
actions for the foreclosure of mortgages.
SEC. 5137. Any number of persons claiming liens may
join or intervene in the same action, and when se arate ac
tions are commenced, the court may consolidate t em. The
-court may also allow as part of the costs, the monies paid
for ﬁlin and recording the lien.
SE0. 138. Nothing contained in this Title shall be con
strued to impair or affect the ri ht of any person to whom
any debt may be due for work one or materials furnished,
to maintain a ersonal action to recover such debt against
the person liab e therefore.
SEC. 5139 Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of this Code relating to civil actions, new
trials and appeals, are applicable to, and constitute the rules
of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Title.
SECTION 5155. The followin acts or omissions in respect
to a Court of Justice, or procee ings therein, are contempts
of the authority of the court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward
the Judge while holding the court, tending to interrupt the
due course of a trial or other judicial proceedings;
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent
disturbance tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other 'udicial proceedin s;
3. isbehavior in o ce or other willful ne lect or viola
tion of duty by an attorney, counsel, Clerk, heriif, Coro
ner or other person appointed or elected to perform a judicial
or ministerial service;
4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the
court by a party to an action or s ecial proceeding;
5. Disobedience of any lawfu judgment, order, or pro
cess of the court;
6. Assuming to be an oﬂicer, attorney, counsel of a court,
and acting as such without authority;
7. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an
oﬂ'icer by virtue of an or order or process of such court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action
while going to, remaining at, or returning from the court
where the action is on the calendar for trial;
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or
proceedings of a court
10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing
to be sworn or answer as a witness;
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglectin to
attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing wit a
party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any oth
er person, in relation to the merits of such action, or receiv
ing a communication from a arty or other person in re
spect to it, without immediate y disclosing the same to the
court;
12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or
oﬂicer of the lawful judgment, order or process of a superior
court, or proceeding in an action or special proceeding con
trary to law, after such action or special proceedin is re
moved from the jurisdiction of such inferior tribuna , mag
istrate or officer. Disobedience of the lawful orders or pro
cess of a 'udicial oﬂicer is also a contempt of the authority
of such o cer.
SEC. 5156. Every person dispossessed or ejected from
or out of an real property b the judgment or process of
an court o competent juris 'ction, and who, not havin
rig t so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes possession o ,
any such real roperty, or induces or rocures any person
not having rig t so to do, or aids or a ets him therein, is
guilty of a contempt of the court by which such judgment
was rendered, or from which such process issued. Upon a
conviction for such contempt, the court or Justice of the
Peace must immediately issue an alias process directed to
the proper officer, and re uiring him to restore the party entitled to the possession o such property under the original
judgment or process, to such possession.
SEC. 5157. When a contem t is committed in the im
mediate view and presence of t e court, or jud e at cham
bers, it may be punished summarily; for whic an order
must be made, reciting the facts as occuring in such im
mediate view and resence, adjud 'ng that the person pro
ceeded ainst is t ereby guilty o a contem t, and that he
be punis ed as therein prescribed. When t e contempt is
not committed in the immediate view and presence of the
court, or judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented
to the court, or judge of the facts constituting the contempt,
or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or
other judicial oﬂicer.
Sec. 5158. When
immediate view and presence of t e court or Judge,
rant of attachment may be issued to bring t e person
the contem t is not committed in the
charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest, a warrant
of commitment may, u on notice, or u on an order to show
cause, be granted- an no warrant o commitment can be
issued without such previous attachment to answer, or such
notice or order to show cause.
SEC. 5159. Whenever a warrant of attachment is is
sued, pursuant to this Title, the court or judge must direct,
by an indorsement on such warrant, that the person charged
may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be
speciﬁed in such indorsement.
SEC. 5160.. Upon executing the warrant of attachment,
the sheriff must kee the person in custody, bring him be
fore the court or ju ge, and detain him until an order be
made in the remises, unless the erson arrested entitle
himself to be ischarged, as provide in the next section.
SEC. 5161. When a direction to let the person arrested
to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or in
dorsed thereon, he must be dischar ed from the arrest, u on
executing and delivering to the o cer, at any time be ore
the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with
two sufﬁcient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested
will ap ear on the return of the warrant and abide the or
der of 318 court or judge thereupon; or they will payas may
be directed, the sum s eciﬁed in the warrant.
SEC. 5162. The o cer must return the warrant of ar
rest and undertaking, if any, received b him from the per
son arrested, by the return day speciﬁe therein.
3. W31‘
SEC. 5163. VVhen the person arrested has been brought
up or appeared, the court or judge must proceed to investi
gate the charge, and must hear any answer which the per
son arrested may make to the same, and may examine wit
nesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may
be had from time to time, if necessar .
S130. 5164. Upon the answer an evidence taken, the
court or judge must determine whether the person pro
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it
.be adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a ﬁne may
be imposed on him not exceeding ﬁve hundred dollars, or he
may be im risoned not exceeding ﬁve days, or both.
SEC. 5165. When the contempt consists in the omission
to perform an act which is yet in the ower of the person to
perform, he may be imprisoned until e have performed it,
and in that case the act must be speciﬁed in the warrant of
commitment.
SEC. 5166. When the warrant of arrest has been re
turned served, if the person arrested do not ap ear on the
return day, the court or judge may issue anot er warrant
of arrest or may order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or
both. If the undertakin be prosecuted, the measure of
dama es in the action is t e extent of the loss orinjury sus
taine b the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct
for gvhic the warrant was issued, and the costs of the pro
cee ing.
SEC. 5167. Whenever, by the provisions of this Title,
an oﬁcer is required to kee a person arrested onawarrant
of in custody, and to bring im before a court or judge, the
inabilit , from illness or otherwise, of the person to attend,
is a s cient excuse for not bringing him up; and the oﬁi
cer must not conﬁne a person arrested upon the warrant, in
a prison or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, ex
cept so ar as may be necessary to secure his personal at
tendance.
SEC. 5168. The judgment and orders of the court or
judge, made in cases of contempt, are ﬁnal and conclusive.
SECTION 5 185. A corporation may be dissolved by the Dis
trict Court of the county where its ofﬁce or principal place
of business is situated, upon its voluntary application for
that pur ose.
f Sliﬁl. 186. The application must be in writing and set
ort :
1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members called
for that purpose, the dissolution of the corporation was re
solved upon by a two-third vote of all the stockholders or
members;
2. That all claims and demands against the corporation
have been satisﬁed and discharged.
SEC. 5187. The application must be signedb a major
ity of the Board of Trustees, Directors, or othero cers hav
ing the management of the affairs of the corporation, and
must be veriﬁed in the same manner as a complaint in a
civil action.
SEC. 5188. If the Jud e is satisﬁed that the application
is 11l110(})1Ilf((:)}Il‘l11i:y wilthhthish itlﬁ, hlﬁ must ordier it tto behﬁled
wit t e er ,an t att e er ivenot esst ant irty
days’ notice of the a plication, by pu lication in some news
paper published in t e county, and_if there are none such,
then by advertisements posted up in three of the principal
puS)l11:i(E pdziiggin filie Conn? b f th ' 1;" f th
. . any ime e ore e ex ira ion o e
Sine ofrpuilplication, any person may ﬁle hips objections to
e app ica ion.
SEC. 5190. After the time of publication has expired,
the court may, upon ﬁve days’ notice to the persons who
have ﬁled objections, or without further notice, if no objec
tions have been ﬁled, proceed to hear and determine the ap
pli<i)ation; anﬁi if all t(l1ie lSi'i8.iJ6I}:16I1i3S herein made are shown
to e true, e must ec are t e corporation dissolved.
SEC. 5191. The a plication, notices, and proofs of pub
lication, ob'ections (i any}, and declaration of dissolution,
constitute t e judgment rol , and from the judgment an ap
peal may be taken as from judgments of the county courts.
SECTION 5210. Subject to the provisions of this Title, the
ri ht of eminent domain may be exercised in behalf of the
fo lowin public uses:
1. Pu 11c buildings and grounds for the use of the Terri
Eory, and all other public uses authorized by the Legisla
ure;
2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any coun
ty, incorporated city, village, town or school districts, canals,
aqueducts, ﬂumes, ditches, or pipes for conducting water
for the use of the inhabitants of any county, incorporated
city, village, or town; or for drainingilany county, incor
porated city, village, or town; raising t e banks of streams,
removin obstructions therefrom, and widening, deepening,
or straig tenin their channels; roads, streets, and alleys,
and all other pu lic uses for the beneﬁt of any county, in
corporated city, village or town, or the inhabitants thereof;
3. Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries, bridges
toll-roads, by roads, lank and turnpike roads, steam an
horse railroads; cana s, ditches, ﬂumes, aqueducts and pipes,
for plublic transportation, supplying mines, and farming
nei borhoods with water, and draining and reclaiming
lan s, and for ﬂoating logs and lumber on streams not
navigable:
4.. Roads, tunnels, ditches, ﬂumes, pipes and dumping
places for working mines; also, outlets. natural or other
wise, for the ﬂow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse
matter from mines; also. an occupancy in common by the
owners or possessors of different mines of any place for the
ﬂow, deposit or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from
their several mines;
f 5. By-roads leading from highways to residences and
arms;
6. Telegraph and telephone lines; _
7. Sewerage of an incorporated city._ _
SEC. 5211. The ollowing is a classiﬁcation of the es
tates and rights in lands subject to be taken for public use:
1. A fee simple. when taken for public buildings or
grounds, or for permanent buildings, for reservoirs and dams
and permanent ﬂooding occasioned thereby, or for an outlet
for a ﬂow, or a place for the deposit of debris or tailings of
a mine;
2. An easement, when taken for any other use;
3. The right of entr upon and occupation of lands, and
the right to take there rom such earth, gravel, stones, trees,
and timber as ma be necessary for some public use.
SEC. 5212. T e private property which may be taken
under this Title includes:
1. All real property belonging to any person;
2. Lands belonging to this Territory, or to any county, in
corporated city, or cit and county, village or town, not ap
propriated to some pu lic use;
3. Pro erty appropriated to public use; but such property
shall not e taken unless for a more necessary public use
than that to which it has been already appropriated;
4. Franchises for toll roads, toll bridges, and ferries, and
all other franchises; but such franchises shall not be taken
unless for free highways, railroads, or othermore necessary
public use; '
5. All rights of way for any and all the purposes mentioned
in section 5210, and any and all structures and improvements
thereon, and the lands held or used in connection therewith,
shall be subject to be connected with, crossed, or intersect
ed by any other right of wa or improvements or structures
thereon. They shall also e subject to a limited use, in
common with the owner thereof, when necessary; but such
uses, crossings, intersections and connections shall be made
in manner most compatible with the greatest public beneﬁt
and least rivate injury;
6. All c asses of private property not enumerated ma be
{saken for public use, when such taking is authorize by
aw.
SEC. 5213. Before pro erty can be taken, it must appear:
1. That the use to whic it is to be applied is a use au
thorized by law
That the talcing is necessary to such use; 3.
If already ap ropriated to some public use, that the
public use to whic it is to be applied is a more necessary
public use.
SEC. 5214. In all cases where land is re uired for pub
lic use, the Territor or its agents in charge o such use, may
survey and locate t e same; but it must be located in the
manner which will be most compatible with the greatest
public good and the least rivate injury, and subject to the
provisions of this title. he Territory or its agents in
charge of such public use, may enter upon the land and
make examinations, surveys, and maps thereof, and such
entry shall constitute no cause for action in favor of the
owners of the land, except for injuries resulting from neg
ligence, wantonness or malice.
SEC. 5215. All proceedings under this title, must be
brought in the District Court for the county in which the
property is situated. They must be commenced by ﬁling a
complaint and issuing a summons thereon.
SEC. 5216. The complaint must contain:
1. The name of the corporation, association, commission,
or person in charge of the public use for which the property
is sought, who must be styled plaintifffs;
2. The names of all owners and claimants of the prop
erty if known, or a statement that they are unknown, who
must be styled defendants;
3. Astatement of the right, of the plaintifff;
4. If a right of Way be sought, the complaint must show
the location, general route, and termini, and must be ac
companied with maps thereof;
5. A description of each piece of land sought to be taken,
and whether the same includes the whole or onl a part of
an entire parcel or tract. All parcels lying in t e county,
and required for the same public use, may be included in
the same or separate proceedings, at the option of the plain
tiff, but the court may consolidate or separate them, to suit
the convenience of parties.
SEC. 5217. The clerk must issue a summons, which
must contain the names of the parties, a general description
of the whole pro erty, a statement of the public use for
which it is sou t, and a reference to the complaint for
descri tions of t e respective parcels, and a notice to the
defen ants to a pear and show cause why the property
described should) not be condemned as prayed for in the
complaint. In all other particulars it must be in the form
of a summons in civil actions, and must be served in like
manner.
SEC. 5218. All persons in occupation of, or having or
claiming an interest in any of the property described in the
complaint, or in the damages for the taking thereof, though
not named, may appear, p ead, and defen , each in respect
to his own property or interest, or that claimed by him, in
like manner as if named in the complaint.
Sac. 5219. The court shall have power:
1. To regulate and determine the place and manner of
making connections and crossings, or of enjoying the com
mon use mentioned in the ﬁfth subdivision of section 5212;
2. To hear and determine all adverse or conﬂictin claims
to the property sought to be condemned, and to t e dam
ages therefore.
3. To determine the respective rights of different parties
seeking condemnation of the same pro erty.
SEC. 5220. The court. jur , or re eree must hear such
legal testimony as ma be o ered by any of the parties to
the proceedings, and t ereupon must ascertain and assess:
1. The value of the property sought to be condemned,
and all improvements thereon pertaining to the realty, and of
each and every separate estate or interest therein; if it
consists of different parcels, the value of each parcel
and each estate or interest therein shall be separately
assessed.
2. If the roperty sought to be condemned constitutes
only a part o a larger parcel, the damages which will ac
crue to the portion not sought to be condemned, by reason
of its severance from the ortion sought to be condemned,
and the construction of t e improvement in the manner
proposed by the plaintifff.
Separately, how much the portion not sou ht to be
condemned, and each estate or interest therein, wi l be spec
ially and directly beneﬁted, if at all, by the construction of
the improvement proposed by the plaintiﬁ‘; and if the bene
ﬁt shall be equal to the damages assessed, under subdivision
2, the owner of the parcel shall be allowed no compensation
except the value of the portion taken- but if the beneﬁt shall
be less than the damages so assessed, the former shall be
deducted from the latter, and the remainder shall be the
only damages allowed in addition to the value;
4. If the profperty sou ht to be condemned be for a rail
road, the cost o good an sufficient fences alon the line of
such railroad, and the cost of cattle guards w ere fences
may cross the line of such railroad;
5. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed
for each source of damages separately.
SEC. 5221. For the purpose of assessing compensation
and damages, the right thereto shall be deemed to have ac
crued at the date of the summons, and its actual value, at
that date, shall be the measure of compensation for all prop
erty to be actually taken, and the basis of damages to prop
erty not actually taken, but injuriously affected, in all cases
where such damages are allowed, as provided in the last section. No improvements put upon the property, subse
uent to the date of the service of summons, shall be in
c uded in the assessment of compensation or dama es.
SEC. 5222. If the title attem ted to be acquire is found
to be defective from any cause, t e plaintifff may again in
stitiﬁtelprooeedings to acquire the same, as in this Title pre
scri e .
SEC. 5223. The plaintifff must, within thirty days after
ﬁnal judgment, ay the sum of money assessed; but may,
at the time of or Before ayment, elect to build the fences
and cattle ards; and i he so elect, shall execute to the de
fendant a ond, with sureties to be approved by the court
in double the assessed cost of the same, to build such fences
and cattle ards within eight months from the time the
railroad is uilt on the land taken, and if such bond is iven,
need not pay the cost of such fences and cattle guar . In
an action on such bond the plaintifff may recover reasona
ble attorne ’s fees.
Sac. 52 4. Payment may be made to the defendants
entitled thereto, or the mone ma be deposited in court for
the defendants, and be distri ute to those entitled thereto.
If the money be not so paid or deposited, the defendants
may have execution as in civil cases; and if the money can
not be made on execution, the court upon a showing to that
effect, must set aside and annul the entire proceedings, and
restore 'ossession of the propert to the defendant, if pos
session as been taken by the p aintiﬂf.
SEC. 5225. When payments have been made and
the bond iven, if the plaintifff elects to give one, as re
quired by t e last two sections, the court must make a ﬁnal
order of condemnation, which must describe the property
condemned and the purposes of such condemnation. A co y
of the order must be ﬁled in the office of the Recorder of t e
County, and thereupon the property described therein shall
vest in the plaintifff for the purposes therein speciﬁed.
SEC. 5226. At an time after trial and judgment entered
or pending on ap ea from the judgment to the Supreme
Court, whenever t e plaintifff shall have aid into the court
for the defendant, the full amount of t e judgment, and
such further sum as shall be required by the court as a fund
to pay any further damages and costs that ma be recov
ered in said proceedings as well as all damages t at may be
sustained by the defendant, if for any cause the pro erty
shall not be ﬁnally taken for public use, the District ourt
in which the roceedin was tried may, upon notice of not
less than ten ays, aut orize the plaintifff if already in pos
session to continue therein, and if not, to take ossession of
and use the roperty during the conclusion of t e litigation,
and may, i¥ necessary, stay all actions and proceedings
against the plaintifff on account thereof.
The defendant who is entitled to the money aid into
court for him upon any judgment, shall be entit ed to de
mand and receive the same at any time thereafter upon ob
tainin an order therefore from the court. It shall be the du
ty of t e court or the Judge thereof, u on ap lication being
made by such defendant, to order and irect t at the money
so paid into court for him, to be delivered to him upon his
ﬁling a satisfaction of the judgment or upon his ﬁling a re
ceipt therefore and an abandonment of all defenses to the ac
tion or proceeding except as to the amount of damages that
he may be entitled to in the event that a new trial shall be
ranted. A payment to a defendant as aforesaid shall be
eld to be an abandonment by such defendant of all
defenses interposed by him excepting his claim for greater
compensation. The court may order the money to be depos
ited in the county treasury, and in such case it shall be the
duty of the treasurer to receive all such monies, duly re
ceipt for, and safely keep the same and to pay out such
monies in such manner, and at such times, as the court or
Judge thereof ma direct, and for such dut he shall be lia
ble to the plainti upon his ofﬁcial bond. rovided, furth
er, That at any time after the commencement of roceed
ings, in the District Court, as provided for in this itle, to
condemn property and upon ten days’ notice to the adverse
party, the District Court may apfpoint three disinterested
ersons, who shall be residents 0 the county in which the
and is situated as commissioners to assess and determine
the damages that the defendant will sustain by reason of
the condemnation and appro riation of the property de
scribed in the complaint, and t e said commissioners shall,
before entering upon the discharge of their duties, take
and subscribe an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge
their duties as such commissioners. Such commissioners
shall ive in writing at least ﬁve days’ notice of the time
and place where they will meet for the purpose aforesaid,
c
whi place, unless agreed upon between the parties, shall
be within ﬁve miles of the premises aforesaid; at the time
-and place mentioned in such notice they may administer
oaths to witnesses, and hear the evidence offered by the
parties, and after viewin the remises shall re ort in writ
in their proceedings an the ama es which t ey ﬁnd the
de%endant will sustain by reason o the condemnation and
appropriation of said property, which report shall be signed
by said commissioners, or a ma'ority thereof, and be ﬁled in
the ofﬁce of the Clerk of the istrict Court in which such
actions shall be fpending; and at any time after payment to
the defendant 0 the amount so assessed and found by said
commissioners as damages, or in case the defendant shall
refuse to receive the same, then at any time after such
amount shall be deposited with the Clerk of the said court
to abide the result of said action, the plaintifff may enter
upon and take possession of and use the property mentioned
in the complaint, until the ﬁnal conclusion of the litigation
concerning the same. Provided further, That the amount
of damages so assessed and determined by said commission
ers shall not be offered in, or be made known to the jury
upon the trial of such roceedin .
Act.Feb. 10, 1887. n effect une 1, 1887.]
EC. 5227. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed,
may be ap ortioned between the parties on the same or ad
verse side , in the discretion of the court.
SEC. 5228. Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of this Code relative to civil actions and new
trials and appeals, are ap licable to and constitute the rules
of practice in the procee ings in this Title.
SE0. 5229._ Nothing in this Code must be construed to
abrogate or repeal any statute providing for the taking of
property in any city or town for street purposes.
SECTION 5245. Application for change of names must
be heard and determined by the district courts.
SEC. 5246. All applications for change of names must
be made to the District Court of the county where the person
whose name is proposed to be changed resides, by petition,
signed by such- person; and if such erson is under twenty
one years of age, if a male, and un er the age of eighteen
years, if a female, by one of the parents, if living; orif both
e dead, then by the guardian; and if there be no guardian,
then by some near relative or friend. The etition must
specify the place of birth and residence of suc person, his
or her resent name, the name pro osed, and the reason for
such c an e of name, and must, i the father of such per
son be not iving, name, as far as known to the petitioner,
the near relatives of such person, and their place of resi
dence. Any religious, benevolent, literary, or scientiﬁc
corporation, or any corporation bearing or having for its
name, or using or eing known by the name of any benevo
lent or charitable order, or society, may by etition, apply
to the District Court of the county in which t e property of
said corporation is situated, for a change of its corporate
name. Such petition must be signed by the trustees of the
corporation, or by a ma'ority of them, and must specify the
date of the formation 0 the corporation, its present name,
the name proposed, and the reason for such change of name.
Upon ﬁling such petition on behalf of such cor oration, the
same proceedings must be had as upon applications for
changes of names of natural ersons.
SEC. 5247. A copy of suc petition must be published
for four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the
county, if a newspaper be printed therein, but if no news
aper be printed in the county, a copy of such petition must
he posted at three of the most public places in the county
for a like period, and proofs must be made of such publica
tion before the petition can be considered.
SEC. 5248. Such application must be heard at such
time during term as the court may appoint, and objections
may be ﬁled by any person who can, in such objections,
show to the court, good reason against such change of name.
On the hearing the court may examine, upon oath, any of
the petitioners, remonstrants, or other ersons, touching
the application, and may make an order c anging the name
or dismissing the application, as to the court may seem
right and proper.
SECTION 5260. Persons capable of contractin may sub
mit to arbitration any controversy which might e the sub
ject of a civil action between them, except a question of title
to real property in fee or for life. This qualiﬁcation does not
include questions relating merely to the partition or boun
daries of real property. _
SEC. 5261. he submission to arbitration must be in
writing, and ma be to one or more persons.
SEC. 5262. t may be stipulated in the submission, that
it be entered as an order of the District Court, for which
purpose it must be ﬁled with the Clerk of said court for a
county where the parties, or one of them reside. The Clerk
must thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of the
submission, with the names of the parties, the names of the
arbitrators, the date of the submission, when ﬁled, and the
time limited by the submission, if any, within which the
award must be made. When so entered, the submission
cannot be revoked without the consent of both parties. The
arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an
award, and the award may be enforced by the court in the
same manner as a judgment. If the submission is not made
an order of the court, it may be revoked at any time before
the award is made.
SEC. 5263. Arbitrators have ower to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjourn rom time to time, to ad
minister oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evi
dence of the parties, and to make an award thereon.
SEC. 5264. All the arbitrators must meet and act to
gether during the investigation- but when met, a majority
may determine any question. l3efore acting they must be
sworn before an ofﬁcer authorized to administer oaths, faith
full and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and
evi ence of the parties in relation to the matters in contro
versy, and to make a just award according to their under
standin .
SEC. 5265. The award must be in writing, signed by
the arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the
parties. When the submission is made an order of the court,
the award must be ﬁled with the Clerk, and a note thereof
made in his register. After the expiration of ﬁve days from
the ﬁling of the award, upon the ap lication of a party and
on ﬁling of an affidavit showing t at notice of ﬁling the
award has been served on the adverse party or his attorney
at least four days prior to such application, and that no or-_
der stayingthe entry of jud ment has been served, the award
must be entered by the C erk in the judgment book, and
thereupon has the effect of a judgment.
SEC. 5266. The court on motion may vacate the award
upon either of the following grounds, and may order a new
hearing before the same arbitrators, or not, in .its discre
tion:
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;
2. That the ar itrators were guilty of misconduct or
committed gross error in refusing on cause shown, to post
pone the hearing, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence,
or otherwise acted improperly, in a manner by which the
rights of the party were prejudiced; '
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making
their award ; or that they refused, or improperly omitted to
consider a part of the matters submitted to them; or that
the award IS indeﬁnite or cannot be performed.
SEC. 5267. The court may, on motion, modify or cor
rect the award where it appears:
1. That there was a miscalculation in ﬁgures upon which
it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of
some gsrson or property therein;
2. hen a part of the award is upon matters not submit
ted, which art can be separated from other parts, and does
not effect t e decision on the matters submitted;
3. When the award, thou h imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had een a verdict, or the imper
fection disre arded.
SEC. 526 . The decision upon either motion is subject
to appeal in the same manner as an order which is subject
to appeal in a civil action; but the judgment, if entered be
fore a motion made, cannot be subject to appeal.
SEC. 5269. If a submission to arbitration be revoked,
and an action be brought therefore, the amount to be recov
ered can only be the costs and damages sustained in prepar
ing for and attending the arbitration.
SECTION 5290. Wills must be proved, and letters testa
mentary or of administration granted:
1. In the county of which the decedent was a resident
gt (tlhe time of his death, in whatever place he may have
le ; '
2. In the county in which the decedent may have died,
leaving estate therein, he not being a resident of the Ter
ritor .
3. yIn the county in which any part of the estate may be,
the decedent having died out of the Territory, and not resi
dent thereof at the time of his death; 4.
In the county in which any part of the estate ma be,
the decedent not being a resident of the Territory, an not
leaving estate in the county in which he died;
5. n all other cases, in the county where application for
letters is ﬁrst made.
SEC. 5291. When the estate of the decedent is in more
than one county, he having died out of the Territory, and
not having been a resident thereof at the time of his death,
or being such non-resident and dying within the Territory,
and not leaving estate in the county where he died, the Pro
bate Court of that county in which application is ﬁrst made
for letters testamentary or of administration, has exclusive
jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate.
SECTION 5296. Every custodian of a will, within thirty
days after receipt of information that the maker thereof is
dead, must deliver the same to the Probate Court having
jurisdiction of the estate, or to the executor named therein.
A failure to comply with the provisions of this section
makes the person failing responsible for all damages sus
tained b any one injured thereby.
SEC. 297. Any executor, devisee, or le atee named in
any will, or any other person interested in t e estate, may,
at any time after the death of the testator, petition the
court having jurisdiction to have the will proved, whether
the same be in writing, in his possession or not, or is lost
or destroyed, or beyon the jurisdiction of the Territory,
or a nuncu ative will.
hSEC. 52 8. Aprovision for the probate of awill must
s ow:
1. The jurisdictional facts;
2. Whether the person named as executor consents to
act, or renounces his rights to letters testamentary;
3. The names, ages, and residence of the heirs and de
visees of the decedent, so far as known to the petitioner;
4. The probable value and character of the property of
the estate;
5. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary
are prayed.
No defect of form, or in the statement of jurisdictional
fac.ts actually existing, shall make void the probate of a
will.
SEC. 5299. If the person named in a will as executor,
for thirty days after he has knowledge of the death of the
testator, and that he is named as executor, fails to petition
the proper court for the probate of the will and that letters
testamentary be issued to him, he may be held to have re
nounced his right to letters, and the court may appoint any
other competent person administrator, unless good cause
for dela is shown. _
SEC. 300. If it is alleged in any petition that any will
is in possession of a third person, and the court is satisﬁed
that the allegation is correct, an order must be issued and
served upon the person having possession of the will, re
quiring him to produce it at a time named in the order.
If he has possession of the will and neglects or refuses to
roduce it in obedience to the order, he may by warrant
rom the court, be committed to the jail of the county, and
be kept in close conﬁnement until he produces it.
SEC. 5301. When the petition is ﬁled and the will pro
duced, the Probate Judge must ﬁx a day for hearing the
etition, not less than ten nor more than thirty days
rom the roductioii of the will. Notice of the hearing shall
be given y the Clerk of the Court, b publishing the same
in a newspaper of the county. If t ere is none, then by
three written or rinted notices osted at three of the most
public places in t e county. If t e notice is published in a
weekly newspa er, it must appear therein on at least three
different days o publication, and if ina newspaper ublished
oftener than once a week, it shall be so published t at there
must be at least ten days from the ﬁrst to the last da of
ublication, both the ﬁrst and the last day being inclu ed.
f the notice is by posting, it must be given at least ten days
before the hearin .
SEC. 5302. o ies of the notice of the time ap ointed
for the probate of t e will must be addressed to the eirs of
the testator resident in the Territory, at their places of res
dence, if known to the petitioner, and de osited in the post
oﬁice, with the postage thereon paid, at east ten days be
fore the hearing. If their places of residence be not known,
the copies of notice may be addressed to .them and deposited
in the (postoﬁice at the county seat of the county where the
procee ings are pending. A copy of the same notice must
in like manner be mailed to the person named as executor,
if he be not the petitioner; also to any person named as co
executor not petitioning, if their places of residence be
known. Proof of mailing the copies of the notice must be
made at the hearing. Personal service of copies of the no
tice at least ten days before the day of hearing, is equiva
lent to mailing.
SEC. 5303. The Probate Judge may, out of term time or
at chambers, receive petitions for the probate of wills, and
make and issue all necessary orders and writs to enforce
the production of wills and the attendance of witnesses, and
may appoint special terms of his court for hearing the peti
tions, trials of issues, and admitting to probate.
SEC. 5304. At the time appointed for, or to which the
hearin may have been postponed, the court must require
roof, y affidavit, that the notices hereinbefore required
ave been personally served or mailed and published, which
t
beililig made, the court must hear testimony in proof of the
wi .
If such notice is not proved to have been given, or if,
from any other cause, it is necessary, the hearing may be
postponed to a day certain, and notice to absentees, given
thereof, as original notice is required to be given. The ap
pearance in court of parties interested is a waiver of notice.
SEC. 5305. Any person interested may appear and con
test the -will. Devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors of an
estate may contest the will through their guardians, or at
torneys a pointed by themselves or by the court for that"
purpose; ut a contest made by an attorney appointed by
the court does not bar a contest after probate, by the party
so represented, if commenced Within the time provided in
this chapter; nor does the non-appointment of an attorney
by the court of itself invalidate the probate of a will.
fSEo._l53;;g6. Iftno persgn ippetars tobcqntest ttihe tprqbate
oawi, ecour maya mi it opro aeon e esimo
ny of one of the subscribing witnesses only, if he testiﬁes
that the will was executed in‘ all particulars as required by
law, and that the testator was of sound mind at the time
o its execution.
SEC. 5307. An olographic will may be proved in the
same manner that other private writings are proved.
SEC. 5308. If any one appears to contest the will, he
n}ust gle written groundshof optppsition to (thet I‘Ob3,t6t(l116l‘€
o , an serve a copy on t e pe i ioner an 0 er resi en s
of the county interested in the estate, any one or more of
whom may demur thereto upon any of the rounds of de
murrer to a complaint in civil actions. If t e demurrer is
sustained, the court must allow the contestant a reasonable
time, not exceeding ten days, within which to amend his
€Vl‘ltl'/811 ogpo%tion. If tlteddemurrer itsl overruled, thela peti
ioner an ot ers interes e may join y or separate y an
swer the contestant‘s glrounds, traversing, or otherwise
obviating or avoiding t e objections. Any issues of fact
thus raised, involving:
1d The competency of the decedent to make a last will
an testament;
2. The freedom of the decedent at the time of the execu
gon of the will from duress, menace, fraud, or undue in
uence;
3. The due execution and attestation of the will by the
decedent or subscribing witnesses; or,
f4.hAnylpther questions substantially aﬂfecting the validity
o t e wi ;
Must, on re uest of either party in writin (ﬁled three days
prior to the daly set for the hearing), be trieif by a jury. If no
Jury is demanded, the court must try and determine the
issues joined. On the trial the contestant is plaintifff, and
the petitioner is defendant.
SEC. 5309. When a j_ury is demanded, the Probate
§ii’$‘.'.'i.l'i‘i‘.iZ‘ s‘i'5‘v’i1i‘L‘3iS ?<§i-d;§“ni’.?§Z§hZ ‘“§$?$}’l§.‘.ii§ZS§;i§i
I‘
juries in civi actions, and the‘ triaf must be conducted in
the same manner as the trial of civil actions in the District
Court.
SEC. 5310. The jury, after hearing the case, must re
turn a special verdict upon the issues submitted to them by
the court, upon which the judgment of the court must be
rendered, either admitting the will to probate or rejecting
it. In either case, the proofs of the subscribing witnesses
must be reduced to writing. If the will is admitted to pro
bate, the ndgment, will, and proofs must be recorded.
SEC. 5 1 1. If the will is contested, and the subscribin
witnesses who are present in the county, and who are o
sound mind, must be produced and examined; and the
death, absence, or insanity of any of them must be satisfac
torily shown to the court. If none of the subscribing wit
nesses reside in the county at the time appointed for prov
ing the will, the court may admit the testimony of other
witnesses to prove the sanity of the testator and the execu
tion of the will; and, as evidence of the execution, it may
admit proof of the handwriting of the testator and of the
subscribin witnesses, or any of them.
SEC. 53 2. The testimony of each witness, reduced to
writing and signed by him, shall be good evidence in any
subsequent contests concerning the validity of the will, or
the suﬂiciency of the proof thereof, if the witness be dead,
or has permanently removed from this Territory.
SEC. 5313. If the court is satisﬁed, upon the roof
taken or from the facts found by the jury, that the wil was
duly executed, and that the testator at the time of its execu
tion was of sound and desposin mind, and not actin under
duress,,menace, fraud, or un er inﬂuence, a certi cate of
the proof and the facts found, signed by the Probate Judge
alrlid atitiasted by the seal of the court, must be attached to
t e wi . Sac. 5314. The will and a certiﬁcate of the proof there
of, must be ﬁled by the Clerk and recorded by him in a book
to be provided for the purpose. All testimony shall be ﬁled
by the Clerk.
SEC. 5315. Every will duly proved_and allowed in any
part of the United States, or in any foreign country or state,
may be allowed and recorded in the Probate Court of any
county in which the testator shall have left an estate.
SEC. 5316. When a co y of the will an the robate
thereof, duly authenticate , shall be produced, by t e exe
cutor, or by any other person interested in the will with a
petition for letters, the same must be ﬁled, and the court or
udge must appoint a time _for the hearing; notice whereof
must be iven as hereinbefore provided for an original peti
tion for t e robate of a will.
SEC. 531 . If, on the hearing, it appears upon the face
of the record that the will has been proved, allowed and ad
mitted to Probate in the United States, or in an * foreign
country, and that it was executed according to t e law of
the place in which the same was made, or in which the tes
tator was at the time domiciled; or in conformity with
the laws of this Territory, it must be admitted to probate,
and have the same force and effect as a will ﬁrst admitted
to probate in this Territory, and letters testamentary or of
administration issued thereon.
SEC. 5318. When a will has been admitted to probate,
any person interested may at any time within one year af
ter such probate contest the same or the validity of the will.
For that purpose he must ﬁle in the court in which the will
was proved a petition in writing containing his allegations
against the validity of the will or against t e sufﬁcienc Y of
the proof, and praying that the probate may be revoke .
SEC. 5319. Upon ﬁling the petition a citation must be
issued to the executors of the will or to the administrators
with the will annexed, and to all the legatees and devisees
mentioned in the will and heirs residing in the Territorv so far,
as known to the petitioners; or to their guardians, if any of
them are minors, or to their ersonal representatives, if any
of them are dead, requiringt em to appear before the court
on some day of a regular term therein speciﬁed, to show
cause whv the probate of the will should not be revoked.
SEC. 5320. At the time appointed for showing cause or
at any time to which the hearing is postponed, personal ser
vice of the citations having been made upon any persons
named therein, the court must proceed to try the issues of
fact 'loined in the same manner as in an original contest of
a wi .
SEC. 5321 . In all cases of etitions to revoke the probate
of a will, wherein the origina probate was granted without
a contest, on written demand of either party, ﬁled three
days prior to the hearing, a trial by jury must be had, as in
cases or the contest of an original petition to admit awill to
probate. If, upon hearing the proofs of the parties, the jury
shall ﬁnd, or, if no jury is had, the court shall decide. that
the will is for an reason invalid; or that it is not sufficient
ly proved to be t e last will of the testator, the probate must
be annulled and revoked. '
SEC. 5322. Upon the revocation being made, the powers
of the executor or administrator with the will annexed,
must cease; but such executor or administrator shall not be
liable for any act done in good faith previous to the revo
cation.
SEC. 5323. The fees and expenses must be paid by the
party contesting the validity or robate of the will, if the
will in probate is conﬁrmed. If t e probate is revoked. the
costs must be paid by the party who resisted the revocation,
or out of th<2>roperty of the decedent, as the court directs.
Sno. 532 . f no person, within one year after the pro
bate of a will, contests the same, or the validity thereof, the
probate of the will is conclusive; savin to infants and er
sons of unsound mind, a like period o one year after t ieir
res ective disabilities are removed.
EC. 5325. Whenever an will is lost or destroyed the
Probate Court must take proo of the execution and validity
thereof, and establish the same, notice to all ersons inter
ested bein ﬁrst given, as prescribed in regar to proofs of
wills in ot er cases. All the testimony given must be re
duced to writin , and si ned by the witnesses.
SEC. 5326. To will s all be proved as a lost or destroyed
will, unless the same is roved to have been in existence at
the time of the death o the testator, or is shown to have
been fraudulently destroyed in the lifetime of the testator,
nor unless its provisions are clearly and distinctly proved by
at least two credible witnesses.
SEC. 5327. When a lost will is established, the
ions thereof must be distinctly stated and certiﬁed y the
Probate Judge under his hand and the seal of his court, and
the certiﬁcate, together with the testimony upon which it
is founded, must be ﬁled and recorded as other wills are ﬁled
and recorded, and letters testamentar or of administration
with-the will annexed, must be issue thereon, in the same
manner as upon wills roduced and duly proved.
SEC. 5328. If be ore or during the lpendency of an ap
plication to prove a lost or destroyed wil , letters of admin
istration are granted on the estate of the testator, or letters
testamentary of any previous will of the testator are grant
ed, the court may restrain the administrators or executors
so appointed, from any acts or proceedings which would be
injurious to the legatees or devisees claiming under the lost
or destroyed will.
Sac. 5329." Nuncupative wills may at any time within
six months after the testamentary words are spoken by the
decedent, be admitted to probate on petition and notice as
provided for the probate of written wills. The petition in
addition to the 'urisdictional facts, must allege that the tes
tamentary wor s, or the substance thereof, were reduced to
writing within thirty days after they were spoken, which
writing must accompany the petition.
SEC. 5330. The Probate Court must not receive or en
tertain a petition for the probate of a nuncupative will, until
the lapse of fourteen days from the death of the testator,
nor must such petition at any time be acted on until the tes
tamentar words are, or their substance is, reduced to writ
ing and led with the petition, nor until the surviving hus
band or wife (if any}, and all other persons resident in the
Territory, intereste in the estate, are notiﬁed as hereinbe
fore provided.
SEC. 5331. Contests of the probate of nuncupative wills
and ap ointments of executors and administrators of the
estate evised thereby must be had, conducted and made as
hefleinbefore provided in cases of the probate of written
wi s.
rovis
SECTION 5340. The court admitting a willto probate, after
the same is proved and allowed, must issue letters thereon
to the persons named therein as executors, who are com
petent to discharge the trust, who must appear and qualify,
unless ob_'ection is made, as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 5 41. N0 person is competent to serve as executor
who, at the time the will is admitted to probate, is:
Under the a e of majority;
2. Convicted 0 an infamous crime;
1.
3. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the du
ties of the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or
want of understanding or integrity.
If the sole executor or all the executors are incompetent.
or renounce or fail to apply for letters, or to appear and
qualif , letters of administration with the wil annexed
must e issued.
SEC. 5342. Any person interested in a will may ﬁle ob
jections in writing, to granting letters testamentary to the
persons named as executors, or any of them ; and the objec
tions must be heard and determined by the court. A peti
tion may, at the same time, be ﬁled for letters of administra
tion, with the will annexed.
SEC. 5343. When an unmarried woman, appointed as
executrix, marries, her authority is extinguished. Whena
married woman is named as executrix she may be appointed
and serve in ever respect as a feme sole.
SEC. 5344. 0 executor of an executor shall, as such,
be authorized to administer on the estate of the ﬁrst testa
tor, but on the death of the sole or surviving executor of any
last will, letters of administration with the will annexed, of
the estate of the ﬁrst testator, left unadministered, must be
issue .
SEC. 5345. Where a person absent from the Territory,
or a minor is named executor—if there is another executor
who accepts the trust and qualiﬁes——the latter may have
letters testamentary and administer the estate until the re
turn of the absentee or the majority of the minor, who may
then be admitted as 'oint executor. If there is no other
executor, letters of a ministration with the will annexed,
must be granted; but the court may, in its discretion, revoke
them on the return of the absent executor or the arrival of
the minor at the a e of ma'ority.
SEC. 5346. W ien all t e executors named are not ap
pointed by the court, those ap ointed have the same author
ity to perform all acts and disc arge the trust, required by the
will, as effectually for every purpose as if all were appoint
ed and should act together; where there ar-e two executors
or administrators, the act of one alone shall be effectual, if
the other is absent from the Territory or laboringlunder any
legal disabilit from serving, or if he has given is co-exec
utor or co-a inistrator authority, in writing to act for
both; and where there are more than two executors or ad
ministrators, the act of a majority is valid.
SEC. 5347. Administrators with the will annexed have
the same authorit over the estates which executors named
in the will would ave, and their acts are as effectual for
all purposes. Their letters must be signed by the Clerk of
the Court and bear the seal thereof.
SEC. 5348. Letters testamentary must be substantially
in the followin form: .
“Territory o Idaho, count of . The last will
of A. B., deceased, a copy 0 which is hereto annexed, hav
ing been roved and recorded in the Probate Court of the
county 0 , C. D., who is named therein, is hereby
appointed executor. 1/Vitness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate
Court of the county of 4, with the seal of the
court aﬂixed, the day of —-———-, A. D., 18——.
Seal.]
By or er of the court. G. H., Clerk.”
SEC. 5349. Letters of administration, with the will an
nexed must be substantially in the following form:
“The Territory of Idaho, county of -———. The last will
of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed, hav
ing been proved and recorded in the Probate Court of the
county of ——————, and there bein no executor named in
the will (or as the case may be,) C. ., is hereby appointed
administrator with the will annexed. Witness, G. H.,
Clerk of the Probate Court of the county of -———-, with
the seal of the court aﬁixed, the day of -——-—,
A. D., 18—.
Seal.]
By or er of the court. G. H., Clerk.”
SEC. 5350. Letters of administration must be signed by
the Clerk under the seal of the court, and substantially in
the following form:
“Territory of Idaho, county of ——-—. C. D. is hereby
appointed administrator of the estate of A. B. deceased.
[Seal.] Witness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate Court of
the county of i——, with the seal thereof affixed, the
day of, 4-, A. D., 18—.
By order of the court.
G. H., Clerk.”
SEC. 5351. Administration of the estate of a person dy
ing intestate must be granted to some one or more of the
persons hereinafter mentioned, and they are respectively
entitled thereto in the following order: "
1. The surviving husband or wife or some competent person
whom he or she may request to have appointe ;
The children;
The father or mother;
The brothers;
The sisters;
The grandchildren;
The next of kin entitled to share in the distribution‘ of
the estate;
8. Any of the kindred;
' 9. The public administrator;
10. The creditors ;
11. Any person legally competent;
If the decedent was a member of a partnership at the
time of his decease, the surviving partner must in no case
be appointed administrator of his esta_te._
SEC. 5352., Of several persons claiming and equally entitled to administer, males must be referred to females,
and relatives of the whole to those of t e half blood.
SEC. 5353. When there are several persons e ually entitled to the administration, the court_ may rant etters to
one or more of them; and when a creditor is c aiming letters
the court may, in its discretion, at the request of another
creditor grant letters to any other person legally compe
tent.
SEC. 5354. If any person entitled to administration isa
minor, letters must be granted to his or her guardian, or
any other person entitled to letters of administration, in the
discretion of the court.
SEC. 5355. No person is competent to serve as adminis
trator or administratrix who is:
1. Not a bond ﬁde resident of the Territory;
2. Under the age of majority;
3. Convicted o an infamous crime;
4. Adjudged by the court incom etent to execute the
duties of the trust by reason of drun enness, improvidence,
or want of understanding or integrity.
SEC. 5356. A married woman must not be appointed
administratrix. When an unmarried woman aplpointed ad
ministratrix marries, her authority is extinguis ed.
SEC. 5357. Petitions for letters of administration, must
be in writing, signed by the applicant or his counsel and
ﬁled with the Clerk of the Court, stating the facts essential
to give the court 'urisdiction of the case, and when known
to the a plicant, e must state the names, a es, and resi
dence 0 the heirs of the decedent, and the va ue and char
acter of the roperty. If the jurisdictional facts existed,
but are not ully set forth in the petition, the decree or order
of administration and subsequent proceedings are not void
on account of such want of jurisdictional averments.
SEC. 5358. Letters of administration may be granted
at a regular term of the court, or at a special term appointed
by the jud e for the hearing of the application.
SEC. 53 9. When a. petition praying for letters of ad
ministration is ﬁled, the Clerk must give notice thereof by
causing notices to be posted in at least three public places
in the county, one of which must be at the place where the
court is held, containing the name of the decedent, the name
of the a plicant, and the time at which the a plication will
be heard). Such notice must be given at east ten days
before the hearing.
SEC. 5360. Any person interested may contest the eti
tion by ﬁling written opposition thereto, on the groundo the
incompetency of the applicant, or may assert his own rights
to the administration and ray that letters be issued to him
self. In the latter case t e contestant must ﬁlea petition
and give the notice required for an original petition, and
the court must hear the two petitions together.
SEC. 5361. On the hearing, it being ﬁrst proved that
notice has been given as herein required, the court must
hear the allegations and proofs of the arties, and order the
issuing of letters of administration to t e party best entitled
thereto.
SEC. 5362. An entry in the minutes of the court, that
the required proof was made and notice given, shall be con
clusive evidence of the fact of such notice.
S130. 5363. Letters of administration must be ranted
to an applicant, though it appears that there are ot er per
sons avin better rights to t e administration, when such
persons fai to appear and claim the issuing of letters to
themselves.
SEC. 5364. Before letters of administration are granted
on the estate of any erson who is represented to have died
intestate, the fact of is dying intestate must be proved by
the testimony of the applicant or others; and the court may
also examine an other person concerning the time, place
and manner of is death, the place of his residence at the
time, the value and character of his property, and whether
or not the decedent left an will, and may compel any per
son to attend as a witness or that pur ose.
SEC. 5365. Administration may be granted to one or
more competent persons, although not otherwise entitled to
the same, at the written request of the erson entitled, ﬁled
in the court. VVhen the person entitle is a non-resident of
the Territory, affidavits taken ex parte before any oﬂicer
authorized by the laws of this Territory to take acknowledg
ments and administer oaths out of the Territory, may be re
ceived as primary evidence of the identity of the arty, if
free from suspicion, and the fact is established to t e satis
faction of the court.
SEC. 5366. VVhen letters of administration have been
granted to any other person than the surviving husband or
wife, child father, mother, brother or sister of the intestate,
any one of them who is com etent, or any competent per
son at the written request 0 any of them, may obtain the
revocation of the letters and be entitled to the administra
tion by presenting to the court a petition praying the revo
plation and that letters of administration may be issued to
1m.
SEC. 5367. When such petition is ﬁled, the Clerk must
in addition to the notice required on application for letters,
issue a citation to the administrator to appear and answer
the same at the time appointed for the hearing.
SEC. 5368. At the time a pointed, the citation having
been duly served and returne , the court must proceed to
hear the allegations and proofs of the arties, and if the
right of the applicant is established and e is com etent, let
ters of administration must be granted to him an the letters
of the former administrator revoked.
SEC. 5369. The surviving husband or wife, when let
ters of administration have been granted to a child, father,
brother, or sister of the intestate; or any of such relatives,
when letters have been granted to any other of them, may
assert his prior right, and obtain letters of administration,
and have the letters before granted revoked in the manner
prescribed in the three receding sections.
SEC. 5370. Before etters testamentary or of adminis
tration are issued to the executor or administrator, he must
take and subscribe an oath before some oﬂicer authorized
to administer oaths, that he will perform, according to law,
the duties of executor or administrator, which oath must be
attached to the letters. All letters testamentary and of ad
ministration issued to, and all bonds executed by executors
or administrators, with the affidavits and certiﬁcates tl1ere
on, must be forthwith recorded by the Clerk of the Court
having jurisdiction of the estates, in books to be kept by
him in his oﬂice for that purpose.
SEC. 5371. Every person to whom letters testamentary
or of administration are directed to issue, must, before re
ceiving them, execute a bond to the Territory of Idaho,
with two or more sufﬁcient sureties, to be approved by the
Probate Judge. In form, the bond must be joint and sev
eral, and the penalty must not be less than twice the value
of the personal property, and twice the probable value of the
annua rents, proﬁts, and issues of the real property belong
ing to the estate, which values must be ascertained by the
Probate Judge, by examining on oath the party applying.
and any other persons.
SEC. 5372. The Probate Judge must require an addi
tional bond whenever the sale of any real estate belonging
to an estate is ordered; but no such additional bond must be
required when it satisfactoril appears to the court that the
penalty of the bond given be ore receiving letters, or of any
ond given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of
the personal property remaining in, or that will come into,
the possession of the executor or administrator, including
the annual rents, proﬁts, and issues of real estate, and twice
the probable amount to be realized on the sale of the real
estate ordered to be sold.
SEC. 5373. The bond must be conditioned that the ex
ecutor or administrator shall faithfully execute the duties
of the trust according to law.
SEC. 5374. When two or more persons are appointed
executors or administrators, the Probate Judge must re
quire and take a separate bond from each of them.
SEC. 5375. The bond shall not be void upon the ﬁrst re
covery, but may be sued and recovered upon from time to
time, by an person aggrieved, in his own name, until the
whole pena ty is exhausted.
SEC. 5376. In all cases where bonds or undertakings
are required to be given, under this Title, the sureties must
justify thereon as required by this Code, and the certiﬁcate
thereof must be attached to, and ﬁled and recorded with
the bond or undertaking. All such bonds and undertak
ings must be aplproved by the Probate Judge before being
ﬁled or recorde .
SEC. 5377. Before the Probate Jud e approves any
bond required under this Title, he may 0 his own motion,
or at any time after the approval of such bond, upon the
motion of any person interested in the estate, supported b
aﬂidavit that an one or all of such sureties are not wort
as much as they ave justiﬁed to, order a citation to issue,
requirin such sureties to appear before him, at a certain
time an place, to testify touching their roperty and its
value; and the Judge must, at the time suc citation is is
sued, cause a notice to be issued to the executor or admin
istrator, requiring his appearance at the return of the cita
tion. Upon the return of the citation, the Judge may swear
and examine the sureties, and such witnesses as ma be
produced, touching the property of such sureties an its
value; and if, upon such investigation, the Judge is satisﬁed
that the bond is insufficient, he may require sufficient addi
tional security, within such time as may be reasonable, not
less than ﬁve daIys.
SEC. 5378. f sufficient security is not given within the
time ﬁxed by the Judge’s order, the right of such executor
or administrator to the administration shall cease, and the
person next entitled to the administration on the estate,
who will execute a sufficient bond, must be appointed to
the administration.
597
SEC. 5379. When it is expressly provided in the will of
a testator that no bond is required of the executor, letters
testamentary may issue and sales of real estate be made and
conﬁrmedwithout any bond being given; but an executor
to whom letters are issued without bond, may at any time
afterward (when it appears from any cause necessary or
proper), be required to le a bond as in other cases.
SEC. 5380. Any person interested in an estate may, by
veriﬁed petition, represent to the Probate Judge that the
sureties of the executor or administrator thereof have be
come or are becoming insolvent, or that they have removed or
are about to remove from the Territory, or that from any
other cause the bond is insufficient, and ask that further
security be required.
SEC. 5381. If the Probate Judge is satisﬁed that the
matter requires investigation, a citation must be issued to
_ _ _ _ _
the executor or administrator, requiring him to appear at a
time and place to be therein speciﬁed, to show cause why
he should not ive further security. The citation must be
served persona ly on the executor or administrator, at least
ﬁve da s before the return day. If he has absconded or
cannot e found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it at
his last place of residence or by such publication as the court
or Judge may order.
SEC. 5382. On the return of the citation or at such other
time as the Judge may ap oint, he must proceed to hear the
proofs and allegations of t e parties. If it satisfactorily ap
pears that the security is from any cause insufﬁcient, he
may make an order requiring the executor or administrator
to give further security or to ﬁle a new bond in the usual
form, within a reasonable time, not less than ﬁve days.
SEC. 5388. If the executor or administrator neglects to
comply with the order within the time prescribed, the Judge
must, by order, revoke his letters, and his authority must
thereupon cease.
SEC. 5384. When a petition is presented praying that
an executor or administrator be required to give further se
curity, or to give bond, where, by the terms of the will, no
bond was originally required, and it is alleged on oath that
the executor or administrator is wasting the property of the
estate, the Jud e may b order suspend his powers until the
matter can be card an determined.
SEC. 5385. When it comes to his knowledge that the
bond of any executor or administrator is, from any cause,
insufﬁcient, the Probate Judge, without any application,
must cause him to be cited to appear and show cause why
he should not give further security, and must proceed
thereon as u on the application of any person interested.
SEC. 5385). When a surety of any executor or adminis
trator desires to be released from responsibility on account
of future acts, he may make application to the Probate
Court or Jud e for relief. The court or Judge must cause
a citation to t e executor or administrator to lie issued, and
served personally, requiring him to appear at a time and
lace to be therein speciﬁed, and to give other security. If
ie has absconded, left, or removed from the Territory, or if
he cannot be found after due diligence and inquiry, service
may be made as provided in section 5381.
SEC. 5387. If new sureties be given to the satisfaction
of the Judge, he may tliereu on make an order that the
sureties who applied for relic shall not be liable on their
bond for any subsequent act, default, or misconduct of the
executor or administrator.
SEC. 5388. If the executor or administrator neglects or
refuses to give new sureties, to the satisfaction of the Judge,
on the return of the citation, or within such reasonable time
as the Jud e shall allow, unless the surety making the ap
plication s all consent -to a longer extension of time, the
court or Judge must, by order, revoke his letters.
SEC. 5389. The ap lications authorized by the nine pre
ceding sections of this c apter may be heard and determined
at any time. All orders made therein must be entered up
on the minutes of the court.
SEC. 5390. When there is delay in granting letters
testamentary or of administration, from any cause, or when
such letters are ranted irregularl , or no suiﬁcient bond is
ﬁled as require , or when no app ication is made for such
letters, or when an administrator or executor dies, or is
suspended or removed, the Probate Jud e must appoint a
special administrator to collect and takec arge of t e estate
of the decedent, in whatever county or counties the same
may be found, and to exercise such other powers as may be
necessar for the reservation of the estate; or he may di
rect the ublic A ministrator of his county to take charge
of the estate. *
SEC. 5391. The appointment may be made at any time,
and without notice, and must be made by entry upon the
minutes of the court, specifyin the powers to be exercised
by the administrator, upon S1151 order being entered, and
after the person appointed has given bond, the clerk must
issue letters of administration to such person, in conformity
with the order.
SEC. 5392. In makin the appointment of a special ad
ministrator, the Probate udge must give preference to the
erson entitled to letters testamentar or of administration,
ut no ap eal must be allowed from t e appointment
SEC. 5 93. Before any letters issue to any special ad
ministrator, he must ive bond in such sum as the Probate
Judge may_ direct, wit sureties to the satisfaction of the
judge, conditioned for the faithful performance of his
duties; and he must take the usual oath and have the same
endorsed on his letters. V
SEC. 5394. The special administrator must collect and
preserve for the executor or administrator, all the goods,
chattels, debts, and effects of the decedent, all incomes,
rents, issues and proﬁts, claims and demands of the estate;
must take the charge and management of, enter u on and
preserve from damage, waste, and injury, the rea estate,
and for any such and all necessary purposes, may com
mence and maintain, or defend, suits and other legal pro
ceedings, as an administrator; he ma sell such perishable
property as the Probate Court may or er to be sold, and ex
ercise such other powers as are conferred upon him by his
appointment, but in no case is he liable to an action by any
creditor on a claim against the decedent.
SEC. 5395. When letters testamentar or of adminis
tration on the estate of the decedent have een granted, the
owers of the special administrator cease, and he must
orthwith deliver to the executor or administrator, all the
property and effects of the decedent in his hands; and the
executor or administrator may prosecute to ﬁnal judgment
any suit commenced by the special administrator.
SEC. 5396. The special administrator must render an
account on oath, of his proceedings, in like manner as other
administrators are required to do. '
SEC. 5397. If, after grantin letters of administration
on the ground of intestacy, a wil of the decedent is duly
proved and allowed by the court, the letters of administra
tion must be revoked, and the power of the administrator
ceases, and he must render an account of his administration
within such time as the court shall direct.
SEC. 5398. In such case, the executor or the adminis
trator, with the will annexed, is entitled to demand, sue for,
recover, and collect all the rights, goods, chattels, debts,
and effects of the decedent remaining unadministered, and
may rosecute to ﬁnal judgment any suit commenced b
th_e _ inistrator before the revocation of his letters of a ministration.
SEC. 5399. In case any one of several executors or ad
ministrators, to whom letters are granted, dies, becomes
lunatic, is convicted of an infamous crime, or otherwise be
comes incapable of executing the trust; or in case the let
ters testamentary or of administration are revoked or an
nulled, with respect to any one executor or administrator,
the !‘?IIl8.iILlDg' executor forhadmgiistraltor must proceed to
comp ete t e execution o t e wi or a ministration.
SEC. 5400. If all such executors or administrators die
or become inca able, or the power and authority of all of
them is revoke , the Probate Court must issue letters of ad
ministration with the will annexed, or otherwise, to the
widow, or nexit of k(iin, or lothers, in the Sallllle orderfanél
manner as is 'recte in re ation to origina etters o a ministration.
The administrators so appointed must give
bond in the like penalty, with like sureties and conditions,
aleli lileﬁeinbefore rgquirled of administrators, and shall have
t e ' e oweran aut ority. SEC. 401. An executor or administrator may, at any
time, by writing, ﬁ ed in the Probate Court, resign his ap
pointment, having ﬁrst settled his accounts and delivered
up all the estate to the person whom the court shall appoint
to receive the same. If, however, by reason of any delays
in such settlement and delivering up of the estate, or for
any} othferh cause, the ciirclslumstances of theil estate or the
rig ts o t ose intereste t erein require it, t e court may,
at any time before settlement of accounts and delivering
up of the estate is completed, revoke the letters of such ex
ecutor or administrator, and appoint in his stead an admin
istrator, either special or general, in the same manner as is
directed in relation to original letters of administration.
The liability of the outgoing executor or administrator,
or of the sureties on his bond, shall not be in any manner
dis_charg_ed, released, or affected, by such appointment or
resignation.
SEC. 5402. All acts of an executor or administrator, as
such, before the revocation of his letters testamentary or of
admiiiistration, are as valid, to all intents and urposes. as
if such executor or administrator had continuedplawfully to
execute the duties of his trust.
SEC. 5403. A transcript from the minutes of the court,
showing the appointment of any person as executor or ad
ministrator, together with the certiﬁcate of the Clerk under
his hand and the seal of his court, that such person has giv
en bond and been qualiﬁed, and that letters testament
ary or of administration have been issued to him and have
not been revoked, shall have the same effect in evidence as
the letters themselves.
SEC. 5404 No Probate Court shall admit to probate any
will, or grant letters testamentary or of administration, in
any case where the Judge thereof is interested as next of
kin to the decedent, or as a legatee or devisee under the
will, or when he is named as executor or trustee in the
will, or is a witness thereto, or is in any other manner inter
ested or dis aliﬁed from acting.
SEC. 540%. When a petition is ﬁled in the Probate Court
praying for admission to the Eprobate of a will, or for grant
ing letters testamentary or o administration, or when pro
ceedings are pending in the Probate Court for the settle
ment of an estate, and the presiding Judgle of the Court is
disqualiﬁed to act from any cause, upon is own or the mo
tion of any person interested in the estate, he must make
an order transferring the proceedin to the Probate Court
of an adjoining county; and the Cler of the Court orderin
the transfer must transmit to the Clerk of the Court to whic
the proceeding is ordered to be transferred, a certiﬁed copy
of the order and all the papers on ﬁle in his ofﬁce in the pro
ceeding; and thereafter the Probate Court to which the pro
ceeding is transferred shall exercise the same authority and
jurisdiction over the estate, and all matters relating to the
administration thereof, as if it had original jurisdiction of
the estate.
SEC. 5406. The transfer of a proceeding from one court
to another, as provided for in the preceding section, shall
not affect the right of any person to letters testamentary or
of administration on the estate transferred, but the same
persons are entitled to letters testamentary or of administra
tion on the estate in the order hereinbefore provided. If be
fore the administration is closed of any estate so transferred
as herein rovided, another person is elected or appointed,
and quali ed as Probate Judge of the county wherein such
groceeding was originally commenced, who is not disquali
ed to act in the settlement of the estate, and the causes foi
which the proceeding was transferred no longer exist, any
person interested in the estate may have the Hroceeding re
turned to the court from which it was origina transferred
by ﬁling a petition setting forth these facts and moving the
court therefore.
SEC. 5407. On hearing the motion, if the facts required
by the preceding section to be set out in the petition are sat
isfactorily shown, and it further ap ears to the court that
the convenience of arties intereste would be promoted by
such change, the udge must make an order transferring;
the roceeding back to the Probate Court where it was orig
inal y commenced; and the Clerk of the Court ordering the
transfer must transmit to the Clerk of the Court in which
the proceeding was originally commenced, a certiﬁed copy
of t e order and all the original papers on ﬁle in his office
in the roceeding; and the court where the proceeding was
ori 'na ly commenced shall thereafter have jurisdiction
an power to make all necessary orders and decrees to close
up the administration of the estate.
SEC. 5408. Whenever the Probate Judge has reason to
believe, from his own knowledge or from credible informa
tion that any executor or administrator has wasted, embez
zled, or mismanaged, or is about to waste or embezzle the
property of the estate committed to his charge, or has com
mitted or is about to commit, a fraud upon the estate, or is
incompetent to act, or has permanentl removed from the
Territory, or has wrongfully neglected t e estate or has long
neglected to perform any act as such executor or adminis
trator, he must, by an order entered upon the minutes of
the court, suspend the powers of such executor or adminis
trator until the matter is investigated. ‘
SEC. 5409. When such suspension is made, notice thereof
must be given to the executor or administrator, and he must
be cited to appear and show cause why his letters should
not be revoked. If he fail to appear in obedience to the ci
tation, or, if appearing, the court is satisﬁed that there exists
cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked and let
ters of administration granted anew as the case may re
quire.
SEC. 5410. At the hearing, any person interested in the
estate ma appear and ﬁle his allegation in writing, show
ing that t e executor or administrator should be removed;
to which the executor or administrator may demur or an
swer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues raised must be
heard and determined by the court.
SEC. 541 1. If the executor or administrator has abscond
ed or conceals himself, or has removed or absented himself
from the Territory, notice may be given him of the pendency
of the proceedings b ublication in such manner as the
court may direct, an t e court may proceed upon such no
tice as if the citation had been personally served.
SEC. 5412. In the proceedings authorized by the pre
ceding sections for the removal of an executor or adminis
trator, the court may compel his attendance by attachment
and may compel him to answer uestions, on oath, touch
ing his administration, and, upon is refusal so to do, may
ionilmit him until he obey, or may revoke his letters, or
ot .
SECTION 5420. Every executor or administrator must
make and return to the court, at its ﬁrst term after his ap
pointment, a true inventory and agpraisement of all the es
tate of the decedent, including the omestead, if any, which
has come to his ossession or knowledge.
SEC. 5421. o make the a praisement, the Probate
Judge or Court must appoint t ree disinterested persons
(any two of whom may act), who are entitled to receive a
reasonable compensation for their services, not to exceed
four dollars per day, to be allowed by the court or Judge.
The appraisers must, with the inventory, ﬁle a veriﬁed ac
count of their services and disbursements. If any part of
the estate is in any other count than that in which letters
issued, a praisers thereof may e appointed, either by the
Probate udge, having jurisdiction of the estate, or by the
Probate Jud e of such other county, on request of the Judge
having juris iction.
SEC. 5422. Before proceeding to the execution of their
duty, the appraisers, before any ofﬁcer authorized to ad
minister oaths, must take and subscribe an oath, to be attached to the inventory, that they will truly, honestly, and
impartiallv appraise the property exhibited to them, or
which shall come to their knowledge, accordin to the best
of their knowledge and ability. They must t en proceed
to estimate and appraise the pro erty; each article must be
set down separately, with the va ue thereof in dollars and
cents, in ﬁgures, opposite to the articles res ectively; the
inventory must contain all the estate of the ecedent, real
and personal, a statement of all debts, partnerships, and
other interests, bonds, mortgages, notes, and other securities
for the payment of money belonging to the decedent, speci
fying the name of the debtor in eac security, the date, the
sum originally payable. the indorsements thereon (if any),
with their dates, and the sum which, in the judgment of
the appraiser, may be collected on each debt, interest, or
security; the inventory must show, so far as the same can
be ascertained by the executor or the administrator. what
portion of the property is community pro erty and what
portion is the separate property of the dece ent.
Sec. 5423. The inventor must also contain an account
of all monies belonging to t e decedent which have come
to the hands of the executor or administrator, and if none,
the fact must be so stated in the inventory. If the whole
estate consists of money, there need not be an a praise
ment, but an inventory must be made and returne as in
other cases.
SEC. 5424. The namin
not thereby discharge him §rom an just claim which the
testator has against him, but the c aims must be included
in the inventory, and the executor is liable for the same,
as for so much money in his hands, when the debt or de
mand becomes due.
of a person as executor does.
SEC. 5425. The discharge or bequest in a will, of any
debt or demand of the testator against the executor named,
or an other person, is not valid against the creditors of the
dece ent, but is a speciﬁc bequest of the demand or debt.
It must be included in the inventory, and, if necessary, ap
plied in the payment of the debts. If not necessary for
that purpose, it must be aid in the same manner and pro
portion as other s eciﬁc egacies.
SEC. 5426. T e inventory must be signed by the ap
praisers, and the executor or administrator must take and
subscribe an oath before an oﬂicer authorized to administer
oaths, that the inventory contains a true statement of all
the estate of the decedent which has come to his knowledge
or possession, and particularl of all money belongin to
is g
the decedent, and of all just c ms of the decedent against
the aﬁiant. The oath must be indorsed upon or annexed to
the inventory.
SEC. 5427. If an executor or administrator neglects or
refuses to return the inventory within the time prescribed,
or within such further time, not exceedin two months,
which the court or Judge shall, for reasonab e cause, allow,
the court may, upon notice revoke the letters testamentary
or of administration, and the executor or administrator is
liable on his bond for any injury to the estate, or any person
interested therein, arising from such failure.
SEC. 5428. Whenever property of more than two hun
dred and ﬁfty dollars in value, not mentioned in an inven
tory that is made and ﬁled, comes to the possession or knowl
edge of an executor or administrator, he must cause the
same to be appraised in the manner prescribed in this chap
ter, and an inventory thereof to be returned within two
months after the discover ; and the making of such inven
tory may be enforced a ter notice, by attachment or re
moval from oﬂice.
SEC. 5429. The executor or administrator is entitled to
the possession of all the real and personal estate of the de
cedent, and to receive the rents and proﬁts of the real
estate, until the estate is settled, or until delivered over
by order of the Probate Court to the heirs or devisees; and
must keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildin s,
and ﬁxtures thereon, which are under his control. T e
heirs or devisees may themselves, or jointl with the execu
tor or administrator, maintain an action or the possession
of the real estate or for the purpose of quieting title to the
same, against any one except the executor or administra
tor; brat this section shall not be construed as requiring them
so to o.
SEC. 5430. Unless it satisfactorily appears to the Pro
bate Court, that the rents, issues and proﬁts of the real es
tate for a longer eriod, are necessary to be received by
the executor or a ministrator, wherewith to pay the debts
of the decedent, or that it will probabl be necessary to sell
the real estate for the payment of suc debts, at the end of
the time limited for the presentation of claims against the
estate, the court must direct the executor or administrator
to deliver possession of all the real estate to the heirs at law
or devisees.
SEC. 5431. If any person before the granting of letters
testamentary or of administration, embezzles or alienates
any of the monies, goods, chattels or effects of a decedent,
he is chargeable therewith and liable to an action by the ex
ecutor or administrator of the estate for double the value of
the groperty so embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for
the eneﬁt of the estate.
SEC. 5432. If any executor, administrator or other per
son interested in the estate of a decedent, complains to the
Probate Judge on oath, that an person is suspected to have
concealed, embezzled, smuggle , conveyed away or disposed
of any monies, oods or c attels of the decedent, or has in
his possession or nowledge, any deeds, conveyances, bonds,
contracts or other writings which contain evidences of, or
tend to disclose the right, title, interest or claim of the dece
dent to any real or personal estate, or an claim or demand,
or any last will, the Judge may cite suc person to appear
before the Probate Court, and may examine him on oath
upon the matter of such complaint. If such erson is not
in the county where letters have been grante , he ma be
cited and examined, either before the Probate Court 0 the
county where he is found, or before the court issuin the
citation. But if in the latter case he aﬁpears and is ound
innocent, his necessary expenses must e allowed him out
of the estate.
SEC. 5433. If the person so cited refuses to appear and
submit to an examination, or to answer such interrogatories
as may be put to him, touching the matters of the com laint,
the court may, by warrant for that purpose, commit im to
the county jail, there to remain in close custody until he
submits to the order of the court, or is discharged according
to law. If upon such examination it appears that he has
concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away or dis
posed of any monies, goods or chattels of the decedent, or
that he has in his possession or knowledge any deeds, con
veyances, bonds, contracts or other writin s tending to dis
close the right, title, interest or claim o the decedent to
an real or personal estate, claim or demand, or any last
wi l of the decedent, the Probate Court may make an order
requiring such person to disclose his knowledge thereof to
the executor or administrator, and may commit him to the
county jail there to remain until the order is complied with
or he is discharged according to law; and all such interrog
atories and answers must be in Writing, signed by the party
examined, and be ﬁled in the Probate Court. The order for
such disclosure made upon such examination, is primary
evidence of the right of such administrator to such pro erty
in any action brou ht for the recovery thereof; an any
jud ent recovere therein must be for double the value
of t e roperty as assessed by the court or 'ury, or for re
turn o the propert , and damages in ad 'tion thereto,
equal to the value o such property. In addition to the ex
amination of the party, witnesses may be produced and ex
amined on either side.
SEC. 5434. The Probate Judge, upon the complaint, on
oath, of any executor or administrator, may cite any person
who has been entrusted with any part of the estate of the
decedent, to appear before such court, and require him to
render a full account, on oath, of any monies, goods, chat
tels, bonds, accounts, or other pro erty or papers belonging
to the estate, which have come to his ossession in trust for
the executor or administrator, and of is proceedings there
on; and if the person so cited refuses to appear and render
such account, the court may proceed against him as pro
vided in the preceding section.
CHAPTER V.
OF THE PROVISION son THE SUPPORT or THE FAMILY, AND or
THE HOMESTEAD.
SECTION
54-40. Widow and minor children may re
main in decedent's house, etc.
5441.
5450.
All property exempt from execu
tion to be set apart for use oi
family.
SECTION
5449. Appraisers to carve out of the origi
nal exceeding five thousand dol
lars in value, a homestead, and re
port the same.
Report oi’ the appraisers. Majority
5-442. May make extra allowance. and minority, which may be con
5443. Payment of allowance. ﬁrmed.
5444. Property set apart, how apportioned 5451. Day to be set for conﬁrming or re
between widow and children. jecting the report oi the ap
5445. Estates less than ﬁfteen hundred praisers. Appeal.
dollars to go to wife and child, or 5452. Costs, to whom chargeable. Per
to be summarily administered. sons succeeding to rights of home
5446. When all property to go to children. stead owners have all their powers
5447. Rights of survivor to homestead. and rights.
5448. Selected and recorded homestead 5453. Certified copies oi certain orders to
set off to person entitled. Sub- be recorded.
sisting liens to be paid by solvent
estate.
SECTION 5440. When a person dies leavin a widow or
minor children, the widow or children, unti letters are
granted and the inventory is returned, are entitled to remain
in possession of the homestead, of all the wearing a parel of
the family, and of all the household furniture of the ecedent,
and are also entitled to a reasonable provision for their sup
port, to be allowed by the Probate Judge.
SEC. 5441. U on the return of the inventory, or at any
subsequent time uring the administration, the court or the
Probate Judge ma , on his own motion or on etition there
for, set apart for t e use of the survivin hus and or wife,
or the minor children of the decedent, 1 pro erty exempt
from execution, including the homestead se ected, desig
nated, and recorded. If none has been selected, designated
and recorded, the Judge or the court must select, desi ate,
set apart, and cause to be recorded, a homestead for t e use
of the persons hereinbefore named in the manner provided
in this chapter, out of the real estate belonging to the dece
dent.
SEC. 5442. If the amount set apart be insufficient for
the su port of the widow and children, or either, the Pro
bate ourt or Judge must make such reasonable allowance
out of the estate as shall be necessary for the mainte
nance of the family, according to their circumstances, during
the progress of the settlement of the estate- which, in case
of an insolvent estate, must not be longer than one year af
ter grantin letters testamentary or of administration.
SEC. 54 3. Any allowance made by the court or J udge,
in accordance with the provisions of t is chapter, must e
paid in preference to all other charges except funeral
charges and expenses of administration: and any such al
lowance, whenever made, may, in the discretion of the
court or Jud e, take effect from the death of the decedent.
SEC. 5 VVhen pro erty is set apart to the use of the
family, in accordance wit the provisions of this chapter, if
the decedent left a widow or surviving husband, and no
minor child, such (property is the pro erty of the widow or
surviving husban . f the decedent eft also a minor child
or children, the one-half of such pro erty shall belong to
the widow or surviving husband, an the remainder to the
child, or in equal shares to the children, if there be more
than one. If there be no widow or surviving husband, the
whole belongs to the minor child or children. If the prop
erty set apart be a homestead, selected from the separate
property of the deceased, the court can onl set it apart for
a limited period, to be designated in the or er, and the title
vests in the heirs of the deceased, subject to such order.
SEC. 5445. If, upon the return of the inventory of the
estate of a deceased erson, it shall appear therefrom that
the value of the who e estate does not exceed the sum of ﬁf
teen hundred dollars, and if there be a Widow or minor
children of the deceased, the court or a judge thereof shall,
by order, require all persons interested to a pear on a day
ﬁxed, to show cause why the whole of sai estate should
not be assigned for the use and support of the family of the
deceased. Notice thereof shall be given and proceedings
had in the same manner as upon the settlement of accounts
of executors and administrators. If, upon the hearing, the
court ﬁnds that the value of the estate does not exceed the
sum of ﬁfteen hundred dollars, it shall, by a decree for that
purpose, assign for the use and support of the widow and
minor children, if there be a. Widow and minor children, and
if no widow, then for the children, if there be any, and if no
children, then for the widow, the whole of the estate, after
the payment of the expenses of the last illness of the de
ceased, funeral char es and expenses of administration, and
there must be no furt er proceedings in the administration,
unless further estate be discovered; and when it so ap ears
that the value of the whole estate does not excee the
sum of ﬁfteen hundred dollars, it is in the discretion of the
Probate Court to dispense with the re lar (proceedings, or
any part thereof, prescribed in this Tit e, an there must be
had a summary administration of the estate, and an order
of distribution thereof at the end of six months after the
issuing of letters; the notice to creditors must be given to
present their claims within four months after the ﬁrst pub
lication of such notice, and those not so presented, are
barred as in other cases.
SEC. 5446. If the widow has a maintenance derived
from her own property equal to the portion set apart to her
by the preceding sections of this cha ter, the whole pro erty
so set apart, other than her hal of the homestea ,
must go to the minor children.
SEC. 5447. If the homestead selected by the husband
and wife or either of them, during their coverture, and re
corded while both were living, was selected from the com
munit property, or from the separate property of the per
son se ecting or joining in the selection of the same, it vests,
on the death of the husband or wife, absolutely in the sur
vivor. If the homestead was selected from t e separate
property of either the husband or the wife, without his or
er consent, it vests, on the death of the person from whose
property it was selected, in his or her heirs, subject to the
power of the Probate Court to assign it for a limited period,
to the family of the decedent. In either case it is not sub
ject to the payment of any debt or liability contracted by
or existing against the husband and wife, or either of them
previous to or at the time of the death of such husband or
wife, except in satisfaction of 'udgments obtained:
1. Before the declaration o homestead was ﬁled for rec
ord and which constitute liens upon the premises;
2. On debts secured by mechanics’, laborers’ or venders’
liens u on premises;
3. n debts secured b mortgages on the premises, exe
cuted and acknowledge for any portion of the purchase
price thereof, or by the husband an wife, or by an unmar
ried claimant;
4. On debts secured by mortgages on the premises exe
cuted and recorded before the declaration of homestead was
ﬁled for record.
SEC. 5448. If the homestead selected and recorded prior
to the death of the decedent is returned in the inventory,
appraised at not exceeding ﬁve thousand dollars in value,
the Probate Court must, by order, set it off to the ersons
in whom title is vested by the preceding section. f there
are subsisting liens or encumbrances on the homestead, they
must be paid out of the funds of the estate, if there remain
sufficient for that purpose, after the payment of all claims
allowed a ainst the estate. _
SEC. 5 49. If the homestead, as selected and recorded,
be appraised at more than ﬁve thousand dollars, the ap
praisers must, before theg make their return, determine
whether the premises can e divided without material inju
ry, and if they ﬁnd that they can be thus divided, they must
admeasure and set apart to the parties entitled thereto such
portion of the premises, including the dwelling house, as will
amount in the value to the sum of ﬁve thousand dollars,
and make report thereof, giving the metes, bounds and full
description of the portion set apart as a homestead. If the
appraisers ﬁnd that the premises exceeded in value, at the
time of their selection, the sum of ﬁve thousand dollars,
and that they cannot be divided without material injury,
they must report such ﬁnding, and thereafter the court
may make an order for the sale of the premises and the
distribution of the proceeds to the parties entitled thereto.
SEC. 5450. Any two of the appraisers concurring, may
discharge the duties imposed upon the three, and make the
report. A dissenting report may be made by the third ap
praiser. The report must state fully the acts of the apprais
ers. Both reports may be heard and considered by the court
in determining a conﬁrmation or rejection of the majority
report, but the minority report must in no case be con
ﬁrmed.
SEC. 5451. When the report of the a praisers is ﬁled,
the court must set a da for hearing any o Jections thereto,
from any one intereste in the estate. Notice of the hear
ing must be given for such time and in such manner as the
court may direct. If the court be satisﬁed that the report
is correct, it must be conﬁrmed, otherwise rejected. In
case the report is rejected, the court may appoint new ap
praisers to examine and report upon the homestead, and
similar proceedings may be had for the conﬁrmation or re
jection of their re ort as upon the ﬁrst report.
SEC. 5452. T 1e costs of all proceedings in the Probate
Court provided for in this chapter, must be paid by the es
tate as expenses of administration. Persons succeeding
bv purchase, or otherwise, to the interests, rights and title
oi successors to homesteads, or to the right to have home
steads set apart to them as in this chapter provided, have
all the rights and beneﬁts conferred by law on the persons
whose interests and rights they ac uire.
SEC. 5453. A certiﬁed copy o ever ﬁnal order made
in pursuance of this chapter, by whic a report is con
ﬁrmed, pro erty assigned or sale conﬁrmed, must be record
ed in the 0 ce of the Recorder of the county where the home
stead property is situated.
CHAPTER VI.
OF CLAIMS Aoamsr THE Esrarn.
SECTION
5460. Nptice to creditors. Additional no
I06.
5461 . Time expressed in the notice.
5-L62. Copy and proo! of notice to be ﬂied
and order made,
5463. Time within which claims against
an estate must be presented.
5464. Claims to be sworn to, and when al
5-165.
5466.
5467.
5463.
5469.
54.70.
lowed, to bear same interests as
judgments:
Probate Juuge may present claim,
and action thereon.
Allowance and rejection of claims.
A proved claims or copies to be
Sled. Claims secured by liens
may be described. Lost claims.
Rejected claims to be sued ior with
in three months.
Claims barred by statute of limita
tions. When and who Probate
Judge may examine.
Claims must be presented before
suit.
Szcrros
5471. Tim e of limitation.
5472. Claims in action pending at time of
decease.
5473. Allowance of claim in part.
5-174. Eﬂect of judgment against execu
5475.
5476
5477.
5478.
5479.
5-180.
5481 .
5482.
5483.
tion.
Execution not to issue after death.
If one is levied, the property may
be sold.
What judgment is not alien on real
roperty of estate.
ay refer doubtful claims. Effect
of referees allowance or rejection.
Trial by referee, how conﬁrmed, and
its effect.
Liability of executor, etc., for costs.
Claims 01 executor, etc., against es
tate.
Executor neglecting to give notice
to creditors, to be removed.
Executor to return statement of
claims.
Payment of interest on claims.
SECTION 5460. Every executor or administrator must,
immediately after his appointment, cause to be published in
some newspaper of the county, if there be one, if not, then
in such newspaper as may be designated by the court, a no.
tice to the creditors of the decedent, requirin all persons
having claims against him to exhibit them wit the neces
sary vouchers, to the executor or administrator, at the place
of his residence or business, to be speciﬁed in the notice.
Such notice must be ublished as often as the Judge or court
shall direct, but not ess than once a week for four weeks.
The court or Judge may also direct additional notice by
publication or posting. In case such executor or adminis
trator resigns, or is removed, before the time expressed in
the notice, his successor must give notice only for the un
expired time allowed for suc resentation; Provided,
That when no newspaper is ublis ed in the county, the no
tice shall be posted in not ess than three public places in
the county, one of which shall be at the court house door,
fo1(-1 such time, not less than four weeks, as the court may
or er.
SEC. 5461. The time ex ressed in the notice must be
ten months after its ﬁrst pu lication, when the estate ex
ceeds in value the sum of ﬁfteen hundred dollars, and four
months when it does not.
SEC. 5462. After the notice is given, as re uired in the
preceding section, a copy thereof, with the a davit of due
publication or of publication and posting must be ﬁled and
upon such afﬁdavit or other testimony to the satisfaction of
the court, an order or decree showing that due notice to
‘creditors has been given, and directin that such order or
decree be entered in the minutes an recorded, must be
made by the court.
SEC. 5463. All claims arising upon contracts, whether
the same be due, not due or contingent, must be presented
within the time limited in the notice, and any claim not so
presented is barred forever; Pro 1:-ided, Izoive ver, That when
it ismade to apqpar by the aﬁidavit of the claimant, to the
satisfaction of t e court or a Jud e thereof that the claim
ant had no notice as provided in t is chapter, by reason of
being out of the Territory, it may be presented at any time
before a decree of distribution is entered.
SEC. 5464. Every claim which is due, when presented
to the executor or administrator, must be su ported by the
afﬁdavit of the claimant, or some one in his ehalf, that the
amount is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon which are not credited, and that there are no off
sets to the same, to the knowledge of the afﬁant. If the
claim be not due when presented, or be contingent. the par
ticulars of such claim must be stated. When the aiﬁdavit
is made by a erson other than the claimant, he must set
forth in the a davit the reason why it is not made by the
claimant. The oath may be taken before any oﬂicer au
thorized to administer oaths. The executor or administrator
may also require satisfactory vouchers or proofs to be pro
duced in support of the claim. If the estate be insolvent, no
greater rate of interest shall be allowed upon any claim af
ter the ﬁrst publication of notice to creditors than is allowed
on judgments obtained in the District Court.
SEC. 5465. Any Probate Judge may present a claim
against the estate of a decedent, for allowance. to the exe
cutor or administrator thereof; and if the executor or ad
ministrator allows the claim, he must, in writing, designate
some Probate Judge of an adjoining county, who, upon the
presentation of such claim to him, is vested with the same
ower to allow or reject it as he would have if the will had
een proved or administration granted in his own county;
and t e Probate Judge presenting such claim, in case of its
rejection by the executor or administrator, or by such Pro
bate Judge as shall have acted upon it, has the same right
to sue in a proper court for its recovery as other persons
have when t eir claims against an estate are rejected.
SEC. 5466. When a claim, accompanied by the affidavit
required in this chapter, is presented to the executor or ad
ministrator, he must indorse thereon his allowance or rejec
tion, with the day and date thereof. If he allows the claim,
it must be presented to the Probate Judge for his approval,
who must, in the same manner, indorse upon it his allow
ance or rejection. If the executor or administrator, or the
Judge, refuse or neglect to indorse such allowance or rejec
tion for ten days after the claim has been presented to him,
such refusal or neglect is equivalent to-a rejection; and if
the presentation be made by a Notary, the certiﬁcate of such
Notary, under seal, is primary evidence of such presentation
and rejection. If the claim be presented to the executor or
administrator, before the ex iration of the time limited for
the presentation of claims, t e same is presented in time,
thou h acted upon by the executor or administrator, and by
the ud e, after the ex iration of such time.
SEC. 467. Every c aim allowed by the executor or ad
ministrator, and approved by the Probate Judge on a
copy thereof, as hereinafter rovided, must, within thirty
days thereafter, be ﬁled in the robate Court, and be ranked
among the acknowledged debts of the estate, to be paid in
due course of administration. If the claim is founded on a
bond, bill, note, or any other instrument, a copy of such in
strument must accom any the claim, and the original in
strument must be exhi ited if demanded, unless it is lost or
destro ed, in which case the claimant must accompany his
claim y his aﬁidavit, containin a copy or particular de
scription of such instrument, an stating its loss or destruc
tion. If the claim or any part thereof is secured by a mort
gage or other lien which has been recorded in the ofﬁce of
the Recorder of the county in which the land affected by it
lies, it is sufﬁcient to describe the mortgage on lien, and re
fer to the date, volume, and page of its record. If, in any
case, the claimant has left any original voucher in the
hands of the executor or administrator, or suffered the same
to be ﬁled in court, he may withdraw the same when acopy
thereof has been already, or is then attached to his claim.
A brief description of every claim filed must be entered by
the clerk in the register, showing the name of the claimant,
the amount and character of the claim, rate of interest, and
date of allowance.
SEC. 5468. When a claim is rejected, either by the ex
ecutor or administrator, or the Probate Judge, the holder
must bring suit in the proper court against the executor or
administrator, within three months after the date of its
rejection, if it be then due, or within two months after it
becomes due, otherwise the claim is forever barred.
SEC. 5469. No claim must be allowed by the executor
or administrator, or by the Probate Judge, which was
barred by the statute of limitations, at the time of the death
of the decedent. VVhen a claim is presented to the Probate
Judge for his allowance, he may, in his discretion, exam
ine the applicant and others, on oath, and hear any other
legal evidence touchin the validity of the claim.
SEC. 5470. No ho der of any claim a ainst an estate
shall maintain any action thereon unless t e claim is ﬁrst
presented to the executor or administrator except, in the fol
owing case: An action may be brought by any holder of a
mortgage or lien to enforce the same against the property
of the estate subject thereto, where al recourse against
any other property of the estate is expressly waived in the
complaint.
SEC. 5471. The time during which there shall be a. va
cancy in the administration, must not be included in any
limitations herein prescribed.
SEC. 5472. If an action is ending against the decedent
at the time of his death, the p aintiff must in like manner
present his claim to the executor or administrator for allow
aiice or rejection, authenticated as required in other cases;
and no recovery shall be had in the action unless proof be
made of the resentations required.
SEC. 547 . Whenever any claim is presented to an ex
ecutor or administrator, or to the Probate Judge, and he is
willing to allow the same in part, he must state in his in
dorsement the amount he is willin to allow. If the credi
tor refuse to acce t the amount a lowed in satisfaction of
his claim, he shal recover no costs in any action therefore,
brought against the executor or administrator, unless he re
covers a reater amount than that offered to be allowed.
SEC. 5 74. A judgment rendered against an executor or
administrator upon any claim for mone against the estate
of his testator or intestate, only establis es the claim in the
same manner, as if it had been allowed by the executor or ad
ministrator and the Probate Judge, and the judgment must be
that the executor or administrator pay in due course of ad
ministration the amount ascertaine to be due. A certiﬁed
transcript of the judgment must be ﬁled in the Probate
Court. No execution must issue upon such jud ment, nor
shall it create any lien upon the property of t e estate or
give to the judgment creditor any priority of payment.
SEC. 5475. When any judgment has been rendered for
or a ainst the testator intestate in his lifetime, no execution
shal issue thereon after his death, except as provided in
Part Second of this Code. A judgment against the dece
dent for the recovery of money, must be resented to the
executor or administrator like any other c aim. If execu
tion is actually levied upon any pro erty of the decedent
before his death, the same may be soi)d for the satisfaction
thereof; and the ofﬁcer making the sale must account to
the executor or administrator for any surplus in his hands.
A judgment creditor having a judgment which was ren
dered against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, may
redeem any real estate of the decedent from any sale under
foreclosure or execution in like mainier and with like effect,
as if the judgment debtor were still living.
SEC. 5476. A judgment rendered against a decedent,
dying after verdict or decision on an issue of fact, but be
fore judgment is rendered thereon. is not a lien on the real
property of the decedent, but is payable in due course of ad
ministration.
Ssc. 5477. If the executor or administrator doubts t_hc.
correctness of any claim presented to him, he may enter in
to an agreement, in writing, with the claimant, to refer the
matter in controversy to some disinterested person, to be ap
proved by the Probate Judge. Upon ﬁlin the agreement
and approval of the Probate Judge in the o ce of the Clerk
of the District Court for the county in which the letters
testamentary or of administration were granted, the Clerk
must, either in vacation or in term, enter a minute of the
order referring the matter in controversy to the person so
selected; or, if the parties consent, a reference may be had
in the Probate Court; and the report of the referee. if con
ﬁrmed, establishes or rejects the claim, the same as if it had
been allowed or rejected by the executor, or administrator
and the Probate Judge.
SEC. 5478. The referee must hear and determine the
matter, and make his report thereon to the court in which
his appointment is entered. The same proceedings shall be
had in all respects, and the referee shall have the same
powers, be entitled to the same compensation and subject to
the same control, as in other cases of reference. The court
ma remove the referee, appoint another in his place, Set
asi e or conﬁrm his report, and adjudge costs, as in actions
against executors or administrators, and the judgment of
the court thereon, shall be as valid and effectual. in all re
spects as if the same had been rendered in asuit commenced
by ordinary process.
SEC. 5479. When a judgment is recovered, with costs.
a ainst any executor or administrator, he shall be individu
a ly liable for such costs, but they must be allowed him in
his administration accounts, unless it appears that the suit
or proceeding in which the costs were taxed was prosecuted
or c efended without just cause.
SEC. 5480. If the executor or administrator isa creditor
of the decedent, his claim, duly authenticated by aﬁidavits.
must be presented for allowance or rejection to the Probate
Judge, and its allowance by the Jud e is sufﬁcient evidence
of its correctness, and it must be pai as other claims, in due
course of administration. If, however, the Probate Judge
rejects the claim, action thereon may be had against the es
tate by the claimant, and summons must be served upon the
Probate Judge, who may appoint an attorney at the ex
pense of the estate, to defend the action. If the claimant
recovers no judgment, he must p_ay all costs, including de
fendant’s attorney’s fees.
SEC. 5481. If an executor or administrator neglects for
two months after his a pointment to give notice to creditors,
as prescribed by this chapter, the court must revoke his let
ters, and appoint some other erson in his stead, equally or
the next in order entitled to t e appointment.
SEC. 5482. At the same term at which he is required to
return his inventory, the executor or administrator must
also return a statement of all claims against the estate
which have been presented to him, if so required by the
court; and from term to term thereafter he must present a
statement of claims subsequently presented to him. In all
statements he must designate the names of the creditors,
the nature of each claim, when it becomes due or will be
come due, and whether it was allowed or rejected by him.
SEC. 5483. If there be any debt of the decedent bearing
interest, whether resented or not, the executor or adminis
trator ma , by or er of the court, pay the amount then ac
cumulate and un aid, or any part thereof, at any time
when there are su cient funds properly applicable thereto,
whether said claim be then due or not; and interest shall
thereupon cease to accrue upon the amount so paid. This section does not applly to existing debts, unless the creditor
consent to accept t e amount.
CHAPTER VII.
OF SALES AND CONVEYANCES or PROPERTY or Dscsnnsr.
SECTION Hiwrion
5490. Personal estate ﬁrst chargeable. 5516. Time and place.
Real estate, when sold. 5517. Yrivate sale of real estate, how
5491. No sales valid except by order oi made, and notice. Bids, when
Probate Court. and how received.
5492. Applications for orders of sale. 5518. Ninety per cent oi appraised value
5493. But one petition, order. and sale, must be oﬁered.
must be had when it is possible to 5519. Purchase money on sale on credit,
do so. how secured.
5494. Perishable and depreciating prep- 5520. Hearing and setting aside sale, and
erty to be sold. when resale may be ordered.
5495. Order to sell personal property. 5521 . May ﬁle objections, when and who.
5496. Partnership interests and choses in 5522. When order oi conﬁrmation is to be
action, how sold. msde, and when not.
5497. Order oi sale, what to direct, snd -‘$523. Conveyances.
what to be ﬁrst sold. 5524. Order of conﬁrmation, whstto state.
5498. Sale oi personal property. 5525. Sale may be postponed.
5499. Mines may be sold, how. 5526. Notice oi postponement.
5500. Petition for sale, who may ﬁle and 5527. Where payment oi debts etc., pro
whst to contain. vlded or by will.
5501. Order to show cause, how made,s.nd 5528. Sale without order, may require se
on what notice. curity.
5502. Order of sale, when and how made. 5529. Where provision by will insuffi
5503. Further proceedings to confoini to cient.
the proceedings upon the sale of 5530. Estates subject to debts, etc.
real estate. ‘ 5531. Contribution among legatees.
550-1. To sell real estate. when. 5532. Contract for purchase oi lands may
5505. Veriﬁed petition (or sale. what to be sold, how.
contain, and to what it may refer. 5533. Conditions of sale.
5506. Order to persons interested to ap- 5534. Purchaser to give bond.
pear. 5535. Executor to assign contract.
5507. Copy to be served, assent given, or 5536. Sales by executors or administrators
publication made. of lands under mortgage or lien.
5508. Hearing alter proo! of service. 5537. The holder oi the mortgage or lien
5509. Administrator, executor, and wit- may purchase the lands. His re
ness may be examined. celpt to the amount oi his claim a
5510. To sell real estate or any part, valid payment. _
when. 5538. Administrator and executor liable
5511. Order of sale, when to be made. for misconduct in sale.
5512. What the order of sale must con- 5539. Fraudulent sales. .
tain. May be at public or private 5540. Limlitation oi actions for vacating
sale. ss. e, etc.
5513. Interested persons may apply for 5541. To what cases preceding section not
order of sale. Form of petition. to apply.
5514. To deliver copy of order to execu- 0542. Accountoi sale to be returned.
tor. 5543. Executor, etc., not to be purchaser.
5515 . Notice oi sale. »
SECTION 5490. I The personal estate of the decedent which
comes into the hands of the executor or administrator is ﬁrst
chargeable with the p_a ment of the debts and expenses; if
the goods, chattels. rig ts, and cred1ts_in the hands of the
executor or administrator are not sufficient t_o pay the debts
of the decedent, the expenses of administration. and the al
lowance to the family, the whole of the real estate may be
sold for that purpose by the executor or administrator.
SEC. 5491. No sale of any pro erty of an estate of a de
cedent is valid unless made un er order of the Probate
Court, exce t as otherwise provided in this chapter. All
sales must e reported under oath, and conﬁrmed by the
Probate Court, before the title of the property sold passes.
SEC. 5492. All etitions for orders of sale must be in
writing, setting fort the facts showing the sale to be nec
essary, and, upon the hearing, any person interested in the
estate may ﬁle his written objections which must be heard
and determined. A failure to set forth the facts showing
the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent
proceedings, if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the
earing, and the general facts showing the necessity be
stated in the order directing the sale.
SEC. 5493, When it appears to the court that the estate
is insolvent, or that it will require a sale of all the pro erty
of the estate, of every character, to pay the family a low
ance, expenses of administration, and debts, there need be
but one petition ﬁled, but one order of sale made, and but
one sale had, except in the case of perishable property,
which may be sold as provided in the next section. The
Probate Court, when a etition for the sale of any property,
for any of the purposes ierein named, is presented, must in
quire fully into the probable amount required to make all
such payments, and if there be no more estate than suﬂi
cient to pay the same, may re uire but one proceeding for
the sale of the entire estate. n such case the petition must
set forth substantially the facts required in a petition for
the sale of real estate.
SEC. 5494. At any time after receiving letters the exec
utor, administrator, or special administrator, may apply to
the court or Judge and 0 tain an order to sell perisha e and
other personal property likely to depreciate in value, or
which will incur loss or expense by being kept, and so much
other personal pro erty as may be necessary to pay the al
lowance made to t e family of the decedent. The order for
the sale may be made without notice; but the executor, ad
ministrator, or special administrator is responsible for the
property, unless, after making a sworn return, and on a
proper showing, the court shal approve the sale.
SEC. 5495. If claims against the estate have been al
lowed and a sale of property is necessary for their payment
or the expense of administration, the executor, or adminis
trator may apply for an order to sell so much of the person
al property as may be necessary therefore. Upon ﬁlin his
etition, notice of at least ﬁve da s must be given o the
earing of the application, either y posting notices or by
advertising. He may also make a similar application, eith
er in vacation or term, from time to time, so lon as any
personal property remains in his hands and sale t ereof is
necessary. f it is made to appear for the best interests of
the estate, he may at any time after ﬁling the inventor , in
like manner and after giving like notice, apply for an ob
tain an order to sell the whole of the personal groperty be
longing to the estate, whether necessary to pay ebts or not.
SEC. 5496. Partnership interests or interests belong
ing to any estate by virtue of any partnership formerly ex
istmg, interest in personal property pledged, and choses in
lished at least four successive weeks in such newspaper as
the court or Judge shall direct.
The notice is served if the publication is completed ﬁve
days before the day set for hearing. If all persons inter
ested in the estate join in the petition for the sale, or signify
in vlvlriting their assent thereto, the notice may be dispensed
wit . .
SEC. 5508. The Probate Court, at the time and place
appointed in such order, or at such other time to which the
hearing may be postponed, upon satisfactory(proof of per
sonal service or publication of a copy of the or er, by aﬂida
vit or otherwise, if the consent in writing to such sale of all
parties interested is not ﬁled, must roceed to hear the eti
tion, and hear and examine the a legations and proo s of
the petitioners, and of all persons interested in the estate
who ma op ose the application.
SEC. 50 . The executor, administrator and witnesses
may be examined on oath by either party, and process to
compel them to attend and testify ma be issued by the
Probate Judge, in the same manner an with like effect as
in other cases. .
SEC. 5510. If it appears necessary to sell a part of the
real estate, and that by a sale thereof the residue of the es
tate, real or personal, or some s eciﬁc part thereof, would
be greatly injured or diminishe in value, or subjected to
ex ense, or rendered unproﬁtable, or that after an such
sa e the residue would be so small in uantity or v ue, or
would be of such a character with re erence to its future
disposition among the heirs or devisees, as clearly to render
it for the best interests of all concerned that the same should
be sold, the court ma authorize the sale of the whole estate
or of any part thereo , necessary and for the best interest of
all concerned.‘
SEC. 5511. If the court is satisﬁed, after a full hearing
upon the tpetition and an examination of the proofs and alle
gations o the parties interested, that a sale of the whole or
some portion of the real estate is necessary for any of the
causes mentioned in this chapter, or if such sale be assented
to by all the ersons interested, "an order must be made to
sell the who e, or so much and such parts of the reales
tate described in the petition as the court shall judge neces
sary or beneﬁcial.
SEC. 5512. The order of the sale must describe the lands
to be sold and the terms of sale, which ma be for cash or
on a credit not exceeding one year, payab e in gross or in
installments, and in such kind of money, with interest, as
the court may direct. The land may be sold in one parcel
or in subdivisions as the executor or administrator shall
judge most beneﬁcial to the estate, unless the court other
wise specially directs.
If it appears that any part of such real estate has been de
vised an not char ed in such devise with the payment of
debts or legacies, t 1e court must order the remainder to be
sold before that so devised. Every such sale must be or
dered to be made at public auction unless, in the opinion of
the court, it would beneﬁt the estate to sell the whole or
some part of such real estate at private sale; the court may,
if the same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such
real estate or any part thereof, to be sold at either public or
private sale as the executor or administrator shall judge to
e most beneﬁcial for the estate.
If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to
make a sale under the order and as directed therein, he may
be compelled to sell by order of the court, made on motioif
-after due notice, by any party interested.
SEC. 5513. If the executor or administrator neglects to
apply for an order of sale when it is necessary, any erson
interested in the estate may make ap lication there or, in
the same manner as the executor or a ministrator, and no
tice thereof must be given to the executor or administrator
before the hearing. The petition of such applicant must
contain as many of the matters required in petitions of exe
cutors and administrators as he can ascertain, and the de
cree of sale must ﬁx the period of time within which the ex
ecutor or administrator must make the sale.
SEC. 5514. Upon makin the order mentioned in the
last section, a certiﬁed copy o ' the order of sale mu st be de
livered by the court or the Clerk to the executor or adminis
trator, w o is thereupon authorized and required to sell the
real estate as directed.
SEC. 5515. Whena sale is ordered, and is to be made at
public auction, notice of the time and place of sale must be
posted in three of the most public places in the county in
which the land is situated, and published in a newspaper, if
there be one printed in the same county, but if more, then
in such paper as the court may direct, for three weeks suc
cessively next before the sale. The lands and tenements to
be sold must be described with common certainty in the
notice.
SEC. 5516. Sales at public auction must be made in the
county where the land is situated5 but when the land is sit
uated in two or more counties, it may be sold in either.
The sale must be made between the hours of nine o’clook in
the morning and the setting of the sun on the same day,
and must be made on the day named in the notice of sale,
unless the same is postponed.
SEC. 5517. When a sale of real estate is ordered to be
made at private sale, notice of the same must be posted u
in three of the most public laces in the county in whic
the land is situated, and pub ished in a newspa er, if there
be one printed in the same county—if none, t en in such
paper as the court may direct—for two weeks successively
next before the day-on or after which the sale is to be made,
in which the lands and tenements to be sold must be de
scribed with common certainty. The notice must state a
day on or after which the sale will be made, and a place
where offers or bids will be received. The day last referred
to must be at least ﬁfteen days from the ﬁrst publication of
notice, and the sale must not be made before that day, but
must be made within six months thereafter. The bids or
offers must be in writing, and may be left at the place
designated in the notice, or deliver to the executor or
administrator ersonally, or may be ﬁled in the office of the
Clerk of the robate Court, to which the return of sale
must be made, at an time after the ﬁrst publication of the
notice, and before t e making of the sale. If it is shown
that it will be for the best interest of the estate, the court
or judge may, by an order, shorten the time of notice,
which shall not, however, be less than one week, and may
provide that the sale may be made on or after a day less
than ﬁfteen, but not less than eight days from the ﬁrst pub
lication of the notice, in which case the notice of sale and
the sale may be made to corres ond with such order.
SEC. 5518. No sale of rea estate at private sale shall
be conﬁrmed by the court unless the sum offered is at least
ninety per cent of the appraised value thereof, nor unless
such real estate has been appraised, within one year of the
time of such sale. If it has not been so appraised, or -if the
court is satisﬁed that the appraisement is too high or too
low, appraisers must be a%pOll1t8d and they must make an
appraiseinent thereof in t e same manner as in case of an
original agpraisement of an estate. This may be done at
any time efore the sale or the conﬁrmation thereof.
SEC. 5519. The executor or administrator must, when
the sale is made upon a credit, take the notes of the pur
chaser for the purchase money, with a mortgage on the
property to secure their payment.
SEC. 5520. The executor or administrator, after Hlﬂkiéldg
any sale of real estate, must make a return of his proce ings to the court, which must be ﬁled in the oﬂice of the
Clerk at any time subse uent to the sale. A hearing upon
the return of the rocee ings may be asked for in the return
or by petition su sequently, and thereupon the court or
Judge must ﬁx the da for the hearing, of which notice of
at least ten days must be given by the Llerk by notices post
ed in three public places in the county, or by publication in
a newspaper, or both, as the court or Judge shall direct, and
must brieﬂy indicate the land sold, the sum for which it
was sold, and must refer to the return for further particulars.
Upon the hearing, the court must examine the return and
witnesses in relation to the same, and if the proceedings were
unfair, or the sum bid disproportionate to the value, and if
it a pear that a sum exceeding such bid at least ten per cent,
exc usive of the expenses of a new sale, may be obtained,
the court may vacate the sale and direct another to be had,
of which notice must be given, and the sale in all respects
conducted as if no previous sale had taken place: if an offer
of ten per cent more in amount than that named in the re
turn be made to the court in writing by a. responsible per
son it is in the discretion of the court to accept such offer
and conﬁrm the sale to such person, or to order a new sale.
SEC. 5521. When return of the sale is made and ﬁled,
any person interested in the estate may ﬁle written objec
tions to the conﬁrmation thereof and may be heard thereon
when the return is heard by the court or Judge, and may
produce witnesses in support of his objections.
SEC. 5522. If it appears to the court that the sale was
legally made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid was
not disproportionate to the value of the property sold, and
that a greater sum, as above speciﬁed, cannot be obtained,
or if the increased bid before mentioned be made and ac
cepted by the court, the court must make an order conﬁrm
ing the sale. and directing conveyances to be executed.
The sale, from that time. is conﬁrmed and valid, and a cer
tiﬁed cop of the order conﬁrming it and directing convey
ances to e executed must be recorded in the oﬁice of the
Recorder of the County within which the land sold is sit
uated. If, after the conﬁrmation, the purchaser neglects or
refuses to comply with the terms of sale, the court may, on
motion of the executor or administrator. and after notice to
the purchaser, order a re-sale to be made of the property. If
the amount realized on such re-sale does not cover the bid
and the expenses of previous sale, such purchaser is liable
for the deﬁcienc to the estate.
SEC. 5523. onveyances must thereupon be executed to
the purchaser by the executor or administrator, and they
must refer to the orders of the Probate Court authorizin
and conﬁrming the sale of the property of the estate. and
directing conveyances thereof to be executed, and to the re
cord of the order of conﬁrmation in the ofﬁce of the County
Recorder, either by the date of such recording, or by the
date, volume, and pa e of the record, and such reference
shall have the same e ect as if the orders were, at large, in
serted in the conveyance. Conveyances so made convey all
the right, title, interest, and estate of the decedent, in the
premises, at the time of his death; if, prior to the sale, by
operation of law or otherwise, the estate has acquired aiiv
right, title, or interest in the premises, other than, or in ad
dition to, that of the decedent at the time of his death,
such right, title, or interest also passes by such conveyances.
SEC. 5524. Before any order is entered conﬁrming the
sale, it must be proved to the satisfaction of the court that
notice was given of the sale as prescribed, and the order of
conﬁrmation must show that such proof was made.
SEC. 5525. If at the time appointed for the sale, the
executor or administrator deems it for the interest of all
persons concerned therein that the same be postponed. he
may Eostpone it from time to time, not exceeding iirall three
mont s.
SEC. 5526. In case of a postponement. notice thereof
must be given, by a public dec aration, at the time and place
ﬁrst appointed for the sale, and if the postponement be for
more than one day, further notice must be given, by post
ing notices in three or more public places in the county
where the land is situated, or publishing the same, or both,
as the time and circumstances will admit.
SEC. 5527. If the testator makes provisions by his will,
or desi nates the estate to be a propriated for the payment
of his gebts, the expenses of adlministration, or family ex
genses, they must e paid according to such provision or
esignation, out of the estate thus appropriated, so far as
the same is sufficient.
SEC. 5528. When property is directed by the will to be
sold, or authority is given in the will to sell property, the
executor may sell any roperty of the estate without order
of the court, and at eit er public or private sale, and with
or without notice, as the executor may determine; but the
executor must make return of such sales as in other cases;
and if directions are given in the will as to the mode of
sellin , or the particular roperty to be sold, such directions
must %e observed. In eit er case, no title passes unless the
ale be conﬁrmed by the court.
SEC. 5542. When a sale has been made by an executor
or administrator of any property of the estate, real or per
sonal, he must return to the Probate Court, at its next term
thereafter, an account of sales, veriﬁed by his afﬁdavit. If
he neglects to make such return, he may e punished by at
tachment, or his letters may be revoked, one day’s notice
having been ﬁrst given him to appear and show cause why
such attachment should not issue, or such revocation
should not be made. .
SEC. 5543. No executor or administrator must, directly
or indirectly, purchase any pro erty of the estate he repre
sents, nor must he be intereste in any sale.
CHAPTER VIII.
OF THE Powims AND DUTIES or Exscurons AND A1>mn~:1s
TRATORS, AND or THE MANAGEMENT or ESTATES.
SECTION
5.550. Executors to take possession of the
5351.
5552.
5553.
5554.
entire estate.
Executors may sue and be sued for
recovery of property.
May maintain actions for waste,
conversion and trespass.
Executor and administrator may be
sued tor waste or trespass oi de
cedent.
Surviving partner to settle up busi
ness. Interest therein to be ap
praised. Account to be rendered.
SECTION
5555. Actions on bond of executor or ad
5556.
5557.
5558.
5559.
5560.
ministrator may be brought by
another administrator.
What executors are not parties to
action.
May compound.
Recovery of property fraudulently
disposed of by tastator.
When executor to sue, as provided
in precedin section.
Disposition 0 estate recovered.
SECTION 5550. The executor or administrator must take
into possession all the estate of the decedent, real and person
al, and collect all debts due to the decedent or to the estate.
For the purpose of bringing suits to (%uiet title, or for parti
tion of such estate, the possession o the executors or ad
ministrators is the possession of the heirs or devisees; such
possession by the heirs or devisees is subject, however, to
the possession of the executor or administrator, for the pur
poses of administration as provided in this Title.
SEC. 5551. Actions for the recover of any pro erty,
real or personal, or for the possession t ereof, and al ac
tions founded upon contracts, may be maintained by and
against executors and administrators, in all cases in which
the same might have been maintained by or against their
respective testators or intestates.
SEC. 5552. Executors and administrators may main
tain actions against any person who has wasted, destroyed,
taken, or carried away, or converted to his own use, the
goods of their testator or intestate, in his lifetime. They
ma also maintain actions for trespass committed on the
rca estate of the decedent in his lifetime.
SEC. 5553. Any person or his ersonal representatives
may maintain an action against t e executor or adminis
trator of any testator or intestate who in his lifetime has
wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted to
his own use, the goods or chattels of any such person, or
committed any trespass on the real estate of such person.
SEC. 5554. VVhen a partnership exists between the de
cedent, at the time of his death, and any other person, the
surviving partner has the right to ‘continue in ossession of
the partnership, and to settle itsbusiness, but t einterest of
the decedent in the partnership must be included in the in
ventory, and bea praised as other property. The surviving
artner must sett e the affairs of the partnership without de
ay, and account with the executor or administrator, and
pa over such balances as may from time to time be payable
to im, in right of the decedent. U on the a lication of
the executor or administrator, the robate udge may,
whenever it appears necessary, order the surviving partner
to render an account, and in case of neglect or refusal may,
after notice, compel it by attachment and the executor or
administrator may maintain against him any action which
the decedent could have maintained.
SEC. 5555. An administrator may, in his own name, for
the use and beneﬁt of all parties interested in the estate,
maintain actions on the bond of an executor, or of any
former administrator of the same estate.
SEC. 5556. In actions by or against executors, it is not
necessary to join those as parties to whom letters were is
sued, but who have not qualiﬁed.
Sac. 5557. Whenever a debtor of a decedent is unable
to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator, with the
approbation of the Probate Court or Judge, may compound
with him, and give him a discharge upon receiving a fair
and just dividend of his effects. A compromise may also
be authorized, when it appears to be just, and for the best
interest of the estate.
SEC. 5558. When there is a deﬁciency of assets in the
hands of an executor or administrator, and when the dece
dent, in his lifetime, has conveyed any real estate, or any
rights or interests therein, with intent to defraud his credi
tors, or to avoid any right, debt, or duty of any person, or
so conveyed such estate that by law the deeds or convey
ances are void as against creditors, the executor or adminis
trator must commence and prosecute to ﬁnal jud ment any
proper action for the recovery of the same; an may re
cover for the beneﬁt of the creditors all such real estate so
fraudulently conveyed; and may also, for the beneﬁt of the
creditors, sue and recover all goods, chattels, rights, or cred
its which have been so conveyed by the decedent in his
lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of such
fraudulent conve ance.
SEC. 5559. o executor _or administrator is bound to
sue for such estate as mentioned in the preceding section,
for the beneﬁt of the creditors, unless on application of cred
itors, who must pa such part of the costs and expenses of
the suit or give suc security to the executor or administra
tor therefore, as the Probate Judge shall direct.
SEC. 5560. All real estate so recovered must be sold for
the payment of debts in the same manner as if the decedent
had died seized thereof, upon obtainin an order therefore
from the Probate Court; and the procee s of all goods, chat
tels, rights, and credits so recovered must be appropriated
in payment of the debts of the decedent in the same man
neir as other property in the hands of the executor or admin
is rator.
SECTION 5565. When a person who is bound by con
tract in writing to convey any real estate, dies before mak
ing the conveyance, where such decedent, if living, might be
compelled to make such conve ance, the Probate Court ma
make a decree authorizin an directing his executor ora ministrator
to convey suc real estate to the person entitled
thereto.
SEC. 5566. On the p)resentation of a veriﬁed petition by
any person claiming to e entitled to such conveyance from
an executor or administrator, settin
forth the facts upon
which the claim is predicated, the robate Court must ap
point a time and place for hearing the petition, at a regular
term of the court, and must order notice t ereof to be published
at least four successive weeks before such hearing, in such
newspa er in this Territory as he may designate.
SEC. 567. At the time and place ap ointed for the
hearing, or at such other time to which t e same may be
postponed upon satisfactory proof, by aﬂidavit or otherwise,
of the due publication of the notice, the court must proceed
to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate may ap
pear and contest such petition, by ﬁling their objections 1I1
writin , and the court may examine on oath, the petitioner
and al who may be produced before him for that purpose.
SEC. 5568. If, after a full hearing upon the petition
and objections, and examination of the facts and circum
stances of the claim, the court is satisﬁed that the etitioner
is entitled to a conveyance of the real estate descri ed in the
petition, a decree authorizing and directing the executor or
administrator to execute a conveyance thereof to the peti
tioner must be made, entered on the minutes of the court,
and recorded.
SEC. 5569. The executor or administrator must execute
the conveyance according to the directions of the decree, a
certiﬁed copy of which must be recorded with the deed in
the ofﬁce o the Recorder of the county where the land lies,
and is pri-ma acie evidence of the correctness of the pro
ceedings, an of the authority of the executor or adminis
trator to make the conve ance.
SEC. 5570. If, upon caring in the Probate Court, as
hereinbefore provided, the right of the etitioner to have a
speciﬁc performance of the contract is ound to be doubt
ful, the court must dismiss the petition without prejudice to
the rights of the etitioner, who may, at any time within
six months thereatlter, proceed, in the District Court, to en
force a speciﬁc erformance thereof.
SEC. 5571. very conveyance made in pursuance of a
decree of the Probate Court, as provided in this chapter.
shall pass the title to the estate contracted for as fully as if
the contracting party himself was still living and executed
the conve ance.
SEC. 5 '72. A copy of the decree for aconveyance made
by the Probate Court, and duly certiﬁed and recorded in the
oﬁice of the Recorder of the county where the lands lie,
gives the person entitled to the conveyance a ri ht to the
possession of the lands contracted for, and to hol the same
according to the terms of the intended conveyance, in like
ganner as if they had been conveyed in pursuance of the
ecree.
SEC. 5573. The recording of any decree, as provided in
the preceding section, shall not prevent the court making
the ecree from enforcing the same by other process.
SEC. 5574. If the person entitled to the conveyance
dies before the commencement of the roceedin s therefore
under this chapter, or before the comp etion of t e convey
ance, any person entitled to succeed to his rights in the con
tract, or the executor or administrator of such decedent may
for the beneﬁt of the person so entitled, commence such pro
ceedings, or prosecute any already commenced, and the
conveyance must be so made as to vest the estate in the
ersons entitled to it, or in the executor or administrator,
or their beneﬁt.
SEC. 5575. The decree provided for in this chapter may
direct the possession of the pro erty therein described to be
surrendered to the person entit ed thereto, upon his produc
ing the deed and a certiﬁed copy of the decree, when by the
terms of the contract, possession is to be surrendered.
SECTION 5580. No executor or administrator is chargeable
upon any special promise to answer damages or to pay the
debts of the testator or intestate out of his own estate. un
less the agreement for that pur ose, or some memorandum or
note thereof, is in writing an signed by such executor or
administrator, or bx some other person by him tliereunto
specially authorize .
Sno. 5581. Every executor and administrator is charge
able in his account with the whole of the estate of the dece
dent which may come into his possession, at the value of the
appraisement contained in the inventory, except as provided
in the followin sections, and with all the interest. proﬁt,
and income of t e estate.
SEC. 5582. He shall not make proﬁt by the increase,
nor suffer loss by the decrease, or destruction, without his
fault, of any art of the estate. He must account for the
excess when e sells an part of the estate for more than
the appraisement, and i any is sold for less than the ap
raisement, he is not responsible for the loss, if the sale has
Been justly made. _
SEC. 5583. No executor or administrator is accountable
for any debts due to the decedent, if it appears that they re
main uncollected without his fault.
SEC. 5584. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses
in the care, management, and settlement of the estate, and
for his services such fees as provided in this chapter; but
when the decedent, by his will, makes some other provision
for the compensation of his executor, that shall be a full
compensation for his services, unless, by a written instru
ment, ﬁled in the Probate Court, he renounce all claim for
compensation provided by the will.
SEC. 5585. No administrator or executor shall purchase
any claim against the estate he represents; and if he pays
any claim for less than its nominal value he is only entitled
to charge in his account the amount he actually Said.
SEC. 5586. When no compensation is provi ed by the
will, or the executor renounces all claim thereto, he must
be allowed commissions u on the amount of the estate ac
counted for by him, as fol ows: For the ﬁrst thousand dol
lars, at the rate of seven per cent; for all above that sum
and not exceeding ten thousand dollars, at the rate of ﬁve
per cent ; for all above that sum, at the rate of four per cent;
and the same commission must be allowed administrators.
In all cases, such further allowance may be made as the
Probate Judge may deem just and reasonable, for any ex
traordinary service. The total amount of such allowance
must not exceed the amount of commissions allowed by this section. .
SEC. 5587. At the third term of the court after his ap
pointment, and thereafter at any time when required by
the court, either upon its own motion or upon the applica
tion of any person interested in the estate, the executor or
administrator must render, for the information of the
court, an exhibit under oath, showing the amount of
money received and expended by him, the amount of all
claims presented against the estate and the names of the
claimants, and all other matters necessary to show the con
dition of its affairs.
SEC. 5588. If the executor or administrator fails to
render an exhibit at the third term of the court, the Judge
of the Probate Court must cause a citation to be issued requiring him to appear and render it.
SEC. 5589. Any erson interested in the estate may, at
any time before the Enal settlement of accounts, present his
petition to the Probate Judge, praying that the executor or
administrator be required to appear and render such exhi
bit, setting forth the facts showin that it is necessary and
proper that such an exhibit shoul be made.
SEC. 5590. If the Judge is satisﬁed, either from the
oath of the applicant or from any other testimony offered,
that the facts alle ed are true, and considers the showing
of the ap licant su cient, he must direct a citation to be is
sued to t e executor or administrator, requiring him to ap
gear at some day to be named in the citation. which must
e during a term of the court, and render an exhibit as
prayed for.
SEC. 5591. When an exhibit is rendered by an execu
tor or administrator, any person interested may appear and,
by objections in writing, contest any account or statement
therein contained. The court mayexamine the executor
or administrator, and if he has been ilty of neglect, or
has wasted, embezzled, or mismanageguthe estate, his let
ters must be revoked.
SEC. 5592. If any executor or administrator neglects
or refuses to appear and render an exhibit, after having
been duly cited, an attachment mav be issued against him
and such exhibit enforced, or his letters may be revoked,
in the discretion of the court.
SEC. 5593. Within thirty days after the expiration of
the time mentioned in the notice to creditors within which
claims must be exhibited, every executor or administrator
must render a full account and report of his administration.
If he fails to present his account, the court or Judge
must compel the renderin of the account by attachment,
and any person intereste in the estate may apply for and
obtain an attachment; but no attachment must issue unless
a citation has been ﬁrst issued, served, and returned, re
quiring the executor or administrator to appear and show
cause why an attachment should not issue. Every account
must exhibit all debts which have been presented and al
lowed durin the eriod embraced in the account.
SEC. 559 . hen the authority of an executor or ad
ministrator ceases or is revoked for any reason, he may be
cited to account before the Probate Court at the instance of
the person succeeding to the administration of the same es
tate, in like manner as he might have been cited by any
person interested in the estate during the time he was ex
ecutor or administrator.
SEC. 5595. If the executor or administrator resides out
of the county, or absconds, or conceals himself, so that the
citation cannot be ersonally served, and neglects to ren
der an account wit in thirty days after the time above pre
scribed, or if he neglects to render an account within thirty
days after being committed where the attachment has been
executed, his letters must be revoked.
SEC. 5596. In rendering his account, the executor or
administrator must produce and ﬁle vouchers for all charges,
debts, claims, a11d expenses which he has paid, which must
remain in the court; and he may be examined on oath
touching such payments, and also touching any propertv
and effects of the decedent, and the disposition thereof.
When any voucher is required for other pu oses, it may be
withdrawn on leaving a certiﬁed copy on ﬁ e; if a voucher
is lost, or for other good reason cannot be produced on the
settlement, the payment may be proved by the oath of any
competent witness.
SEC. 5597. On the settlement of his account he may be
allowed any item of ex enditure, not exceeding twenty dol
lars, for which no vouc er is produced, if such item be sup
ported by his own uncontradicted oath positive to the fact
of payment, s ecifying when, where, and to whom it was
made; but suc allowances in the whole must not exceed
ﬁve hundred dollars against any one estate.
SEC. 5598. When any account is rendered for settle
ment, the court or Judge must appoint a day for the settle
ment thereof; the Clerk must thereupon give notice thereof,
by causin notices to'be posted in at least three public
p aces in t 1e county, setting forth the name of the estate,
the executor or administrator. and the da ' appointed for
the settlement of the account, which must e on some day
of a term of the court. The court or Probate Judge may
order such further notice to be given as may be proper.
SEC. 5599. If the account mentioned in the precediii section be for a ﬁnal settlement, and a petition for the ﬁna
distribution of the estate be ﬁled with said account, the no
tice of the settlement must state those facts, which notice
must be given by osting a publication, as the court may
direct, and for suc time as may be ordered. On the settle
ment of said account, distribution and artition of the es
tate to all entitled thereto may be imme iately had without
further notice or roceedings.
SEC. 5600. n the day appointed, or any subsequent
day to which the hearin may be postponed by the court,
any person interested in t e estate may appear and ﬁle his
exceptions in writing to the account and contest the same.
SEC. 5601. All matters including allowed claims not
passed upon on the settlement of any ormer account, or on
renderin an exhibit, or on making a decree of sale, may be
by the heirs for cause shown. The hearin and
allegations of the respective parties may be postpone from
time to time, when necessary, and the court may apipoint
conteste
one or more referees to examine the accounts and ma e re
port thereon, subject to conﬁrmation; and may allow a rea
sonable compensation to the referees, to be paid out of the
estate of the decedent.
SEC. 5602. The settlement of the account and the al
lowance thereof by the court, or upon appeal, is conclusive
against all persons in any way intereste in the estate, sav
ing, however, to all persons laboring under any legal disa
bility, their rights to proceed against the executor or ad
ministrator, either individually or u on his bond, within
two years after their respective disa ilities cease; and in
any action brou ht by any such person, the allowance
and settlement 0 the account is prima facie evidence of its
correctness.
Siic. 5603. The account must not be allowed by the
court until it is ﬁrst proved that notice has been given as
required by this chapter, and the decree must show that such
proof was made to the satisfaction of the court, an
clusive evidence of the fact.
SEC. 5604. Whenever it appears to the court on any
hearing of an application for the sale of real propert , that
it would be for the interest of the estate that persona prog
erty of the estate, or some art of such roperty, shou d e
ﬁrst sold, the court ma ecree the sa e of such personal
property, or an part o it, and the sale thereof shall be
conducted in t e same manner as if the application had
been made for the sale of such personal property in the ﬁrst
instance.
SEC. 5605. Pending the settlement of any estate, on the
petition of any party interested therein, and upon good
cause shown therefore, the court may order any monies in
the hands of the executors or administrators to be invested
for the beneﬁt of the estate in securities of the United States
or of this Territory. Such order can only be made after
E
ublication of notice of the petition in some newspaper to
e designated by the court or Judge thereof. '
d is con
SEC. 5606.
The debts of the estate must be paid in the
following order:
1. Funeral expenses;
2. The ex enses of the last sickness;
Stli. Debts aving preference by the laws of the United
ates
4. Judgments rendered against the decedent in his life
time, and mortgages in the order of their date;
5. All other demands against the estate.
SEC. 5607. The preference iven in the precedin sec
tion to a mortgage onl exten s to the proceeds 0 the
property mortgaged. f the proceeds of such property is
insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part remaining unsat
isﬁed must be classed with the other demands against the
estate.
SEC. 5608. If the estate is insuﬁicient to pay all the
debts of any one class, each creditor must be aid a dividend
in proportion to his claim; and no creditor o any one class
shall receive any payment until all those of the preceding
class are fully paid.
SEC. 5609. The executor or administrator, as" soon as
he has suﬂicient funds in his hands, must pay the funeral
expenses and the expenses of the last sickness, and the al
lowance made to the family of the decedent. He may re
tain in his hands the necessary expenses of the administra
tion, but he is not obliged to pay any other debt or any lega
cy until, as prescribed in this chapter, the payment has been
ordered b the court.
SEC. 5 10. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the
executor or administrator, as required in this cha ter, the
court must make an order for the payment of the ebts, as
the circumstances of the estate require. If there is not suf
ﬁcent funds in the hands of the executor or administrator,
the court must s ecify in the decree the sum to be paid to
each creditor. ff the whole property or the estate be ex
hausted by such payment or distribution, such account
must be considered as a ﬁnal account, and the executor or
administrator is entitled to his dischar e, on producing and
ﬁling the necessary vouchers and proo s showing that such
payments have been made, and that he has fully complied
with the decree of the court.
SEC. 5611. If there is any claim not due, or any con
tingent or dis uted claim against the estate, the amount
thereof, or suc part of the same as the holder would be entitled to if the claim were due, established, or absolute,
must be aid into the court, and there remain, to be paid
over to t e arty when he becomes entitled thereto; or, if he
fails to esta lish his claim, to be paid over or distributed as
the circumstances of the estate require. If any creditor
whose claim has been allowed, but is not et due, appears
and assents to a deduction therefrom. of-t e legal interest
for the time the claim has yet to run, he is entitled to be paid
accordingly. The payments provided for in this section are
not to be made when the estate is insolvent, unless a pro
rata distribution is ordered.
SEC. 5612. When a decree is made by the Probate
Court for the payment of creditors, the executor or ad
ministrator is personally liable to each creditor for his al
lowed claim, or the dividend thereon, and execution may be
issued on such decree, as upon a judgment in the District
Court, in favor of each creditor, and the same proceedin
may be had under such execution as if it had been issue
from the District Court. The executor or administrator is
liable therefore, on his bond, to each creditor.
SEC. 5613. When the accounts of the administrator or
executor have been settled, and an order made for the ay
ment of debts and distribution of the estate, no cre itor
whose claim was not included in the order for payment has
any ri ht to call upon the creditors who have been paid, or
upon t e heirs, devisees, or legatees to contribute to the pay
ment of his claim ; but if the executor or administrator has
failed to give the notice to the creditors, as prescribed by
this Title, such creditor may recover on the bond of the
executor or administrator the amount of his claim, or such
part thereof as he would have been entitled to had it been
allowed. This section shall not a ply to any creditor whose
claim was not due ten months be ore the day of settlement,
or whose claim was contingent and did not become absolute
ten months before such da
SEC. 5614. If the whole of the debts have been paid by
the ﬁrst distribution, the court must direct the payment of
legacies and the distribution of the estate among the heirs,
legatees, or other persons entitled, as provided lIl the next
chapter; but if there be debts remaining unpaid, or if, for
other reasons, the estate be not in a proper condition to be
closed, the court must give such extension of time as may
be reasonable for a ﬁnal settlement of the estate.
SEC. 5615. At the time designated in the last section,
or sooner, if within that time all the ro erty of the estate
has been sold, or there are suﬂicient un s in his hands for
the payment of all the debts due by the estate, and the
estate be in a proper condition to be closed, the executor or
administrator must render a ﬁnal account and pray a set
tlement of his administration.
SEC. 5616. If he neglects to render his account, the
same proceedings may be had as grescribed in this chapter
in regard to the ﬁrst account to e rendered by him; and
all the provisions of this chapter relative to the'last men
tioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof, apply
to his account presented for ﬁnal settlement.
SECTION 562 1. At any time after the lapse of four months
from the issuing of letters testamentary or of administra
tion, any heir, evisee, or legatee may present his petition
to the court for the legacy or share of the estate to which
he is entitled, to be given to him upon his givin bonds,
with security, for the payment of his proportion of t e debts
of the estate.
SEC. 5622. Notice of the application must be given to
the executor or administrator personally, and to all persons
interested in the estate, in the same manner that notice is
required to be given of the settlement of the account of an
executor or administrator.
SEC. 5623. The executor or administrator or any person
interested in the estate, may ap ear at the time named and
resist the application, or any ot er heir, devisee, or legatee,
may make a similar agplication for himself.
SEC. 5624. If at t e hearing it appears that the estate
is but little indebted and that the share of the party apply
ing may be allowed to him without loss to the creditors of
the estate, the court must make an order in conformity with
the prayer of the applicant, requiring:
1. Each heir, legatee, or devisee obtaining such order be
fore receiving his share or any ortion thereof, to execute
and deliver to the executor or a ministrator a bond, in such
sum as shall be designated by the Probate Judge, with sure
ties to be approved by the Jud e, pa able to the executor or
administrator, and conditione for t e ayment, whenever
required, of his proportion of the debts d)ue from the estate,
not exceeding the value or amount of the legacy or propor
tion of the estate-to which he is entitled;
2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir,
legatee or devisee the whole portion of the estate to which
he may be entitled, or only apart thereof, designating it. If
in the execution of the order, a partition is necessary, between
two or more of the parties interested, it must be made
in the manner hereinafter prescribed. The costs of these
proceedings shall be paid by the applicant, or- if there
e more than one, to be apportioned equally amongst them.
SEC. 5625. When any bond has been executed and de
livered under the provisions of the receding section, and
it is necessary for the settlement of tiie estate to require the
payment of any part of the money thereby secured, the ex
ecutor or administrator must petition the court for an order
requiring the payment and have a citation issued and served
on the party bound, requiring him to ap ear and show cause
why the order should not be made. t the hearing, the
court, if satisﬁed of‘ the necessity of such payment, must
make an order accordingly, designating the amount and
giving a time within which it must be paid. If the money
is notdpaid within the time allowed, an action may be main
taine by the executor or administrator on the bond.
SEC. 5626. Upon the ﬁnal settlement of the accounts
of the executor or administrator, or at an subsequent time,
upon the application of the executor or a miiiistrator, or of
an heir, legatee or devisee, the court must proceed to dis
tri ute the residue of the estate in the hands of the executor
or administrator, if any, among the persons wlio bylaw are
entitled thereto; and if the decedent has left a surviving
child and the issue of other children, and an
fore the close of administration, have died wlfile under age
and not havin been married, no administration on such
deceased chil s estate is necessary, but all the estate which
such deceased child was entitled to by inheritance, must,
without administration, be distributed to the other heirs at
law. A statement of any receipts and disbursements of the
executor or administrator, since the rendition of his ﬁnal
accounts, must be reported and ﬁled at the time of making
such distribution, and a settlement thereof, together wit
an estimate of the expenses of closin the estate, must be
made by the court and included in t e order or decree; or
the court or Judge may order notice of the settlement of
such supplementary account, and refer the same as in oth
er cases of the settlement of accounts.
SEC. 5627. In the order or decree the court must name
the persons and the proportions or arts to which each shall
be entitled, and such persons may emand and sue for, and
recover their respective shares from the executor or admin
istrator, or any person having the same in possession. Such
order or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs, lega
tees or devisees, subject only to be reversed, set aside, or
modiﬁed on appeal.
SEC. 5628. Upon application for distribution, after ﬁnal
settlement of the accounts of administration, if the dece
of them,bedent was a non-resident of this Territory, leaving a will
which has been duly proved or allowed in the state of his
residence, and an authenticated copy thereof has been ad
mitted to probate in this Territory, and it is necessary, in
order that the estate or any part thereof may be distributed
according to the will, that the estate in this Territory should
be delivered to the executor or administrator in the state or
place of his residence, the court may order such delivery to
e made, and if necessary, order a sale of the real estate,
and a. like deliver of the proceeds. The delivery, in accord
ance with the or er of the court, is a full discharge of the
executor or administrator with the will annexed, in this
Territory, in relation to all property embraced in such order
which, unless recovered on appeal, binds and concludes all
parties in interest. Sales of real estate ordered by virtue of
this section, must be made in the same manner as other
raales of real estate of decedents by order of the Probate
ourt. SEC. 5629. The order or decree may be made on the pe
tition of the executor or administrator, or of any person in
terested in the estate. Notice of the application must be
given by posting or publication, as the court may direct,
and for such time as may be ordered. If partition be applied
for as provided in this cha ter, the decree of distribution
shall not divest the court 0 jurisdiction to order partition,
unless the estate is ﬁnally closed.
SEC. 5630. Before any decree of distribution of an es
tate is made, the Probate Court must be satisﬁed, by the
oath of the executor or administrator, or otherwise, that all
Territorial, county and municipal taxes, le ally levied upon
personal ro ertarof the estate, have been ully aid.
SEC. 5 3f. hen the estate, real or persona , assigned
by the decree of distribution to two or more heirs, devisees
or legatees, is in common and undivided, and the respective
shares are not separated and distinguished, partition or dis
tribution may be made by three disinterested persons, to be
a pointed commissioners for that purpose by the Probate
ourt or Judge, who must be duly sworn to the faithful dis
charge of their duties. A certiﬁed copy of the order of their
ap ointment, and of the order or decree assignin and dis
tri utin the estate, must be issued to them as t eir war
rant, an their oath must be indorsed thereon. Upon con
sent of the parties, or when the court deems it pro er and
'ust, it is suﬂicient to appoint one commissioner on y, who
as the same authority and is governed by the same rules
as if three were appointed.
SEC. 5632. Such partition may be ordered and had in
the Probate Court, on the petition of any person interested.
But before commissioners are appointed, or partition or
dered by the Probate Court, as directed in this chapter, no
tice thereof must be given to all persons interested, who re
side in this Territory, or to their guardians, and to the
agents, attorneys, or ardians, if any in this Territory, of
such as reside out of t e Territory, either ersonall or by
public notice, as the Probate Court may irect. T e peti
tion may be ﬁled, attorneys, guardians, and agents ap
pointed, and notice given, at an time before the order or
ecree of distribution, but the ommissioners must not be
appointed until the order or decree is made distributing the
estate.
SEC. 5633. If the real estate is in different counties, the
Probate Court may, if deemed proper, ap oint a Commis
sioner for all, or different Commissioners or each county.
The estate in each county must be divided separately among
the heirs, devisees, or legatees, as if there was no other es
tate to be divided, but the Commissioner ﬁrst appointed
must, unless otherwise directed by the Probate Court, make division of such real estate, wherever situated within this
Territor .
SEC. 634. Partition or distribution of the real estate
may be made as provided in this chapter, although some of
the ori "nal heirs, legatees, or devisees may have conveyed
their s ares to other ersons, and such shares must be as
signed to the person olding the same, in the same manner
as they otherwise would have been -to such heirs, legatees,
or devisees. SEC. 5635. When both distribution and partition are
made, the several shares in the real and personal estate must
be set out to each individual in proportion to his right, by
metes and bounds, or description, so that the same can be
easil distinguished, unless two or more of the parties inter
este consent to have their shares set out so as to be held by
them in common and undivided.
SEC. 5636. When the real estate cannot be divided
without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the Pro
bate Court may assign'the whole to one or more of the par
ties entitled to share therein who will accept it, always pre
ferring the males to the females, and among children pre
ferring the elder to the younger. The parties acce ting the
whole must pal}; to the other arties interested, t eir just
proportion o t e true value t ereof, or secure the same to
their satisfaction, or, in case of the minority of such party,
then to the satisfaction of his guardian, and the true value
of the estate must be ascertained and reported by the Com
missioners. When the Commissioners a pointed to make
partition are of the opinion that the rea estate cannot be
divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners,
they must so report to the court, and recommend that the
whole be assigned as herein provided, and must ﬁnd and re
port the true value of such real estate. On ﬁling the report
of the Commissioners, and on making or securing the pay
ment as before provided, the court, if it appears just and
proper, must conﬁrm the re ort, and thereupon the assign
ment is complete and the tit e to the whole of such real es
tate vests in the erson to whom the same is so assigned.
SEC. 5637. X hen any tract of land or tenement is of
greater value than any one’s share in the estate to be divided,
and cannot be divided without injury to the same, it may
be set off by the commissioners appointed to make partition,
to any of the parties who will accept it, iving preference
as prescribed in the preceding section. he party accept
ing must pay; or secure to the others such sums as the com
missioners s all award to make the partition equal, and the
commissioners must make their award accordingly; but
partition must not be established by the court until the
sums awarded are paid to the parties entitled to the same,
or secured to their satisfaction.
SEC. 5638. When it appears to the court, from the com
missioners’ report, that it cannot otherwise be fairly divided,
and should be sold, the court may order the sale of the
whole or any part of the estate, real or personal, by the ex
ecutor or administrator, or by a commissioner appointed
for that purpose, and the proceeds distributed. e sale
must be conducted, reported, and conﬁrmed in the same
manner and under the same requirements provided in
Chapter VII of this Title. _ _ _
_Si§o. 5639. Before any partition is made or any estate
divided, as provided in this chapter, notice must be iven
to all persons interested in the partition, their guar ians,
ents, or attorneys, by the commissioners, of the time and
p ace, when and where they shall proceed to make parti
tion. The commissioners may take testimony, order sur
veys, and take such other steps as may be necessary to en
ab e them to form a judgment upon the matters before them.
SE_c. 5640. The commissioners must report their pro
ceedings, and the partition agreed upon by them, to the
Probate Court, in writing, and the court may, for sufﬁcient
reasons, set aside the report and commit the same to the
same commissioners, or appoint others; and when such re
port is ﬁnally conﬁrmed, a certiﬁed copy of the judgment
or decree of partition made thereon, attested by the clerk,
under the seal of the court, must be recorded in the oﬂ‘ice_of
the recorder of the county where the lands lie.
SEC. 5641. VVhen the Probate Court makes a judgment
or decree assigning the residue of any estate to one or more
persons entitled to the same, it is not necessary to appoint
ommissioners to make partition or distribution thereo , un
lqspﬁzhe parties to lyvhom tilie assignmgnt is élecreed, or some
o eni, request t at suc partition ema e.
SEC. 5642. All questions as to advancements made, or
alleged to have been made, by the decedent, to his heirs,
may be heard and determined by the Probate Court, and
must be speciﬁed in the decree assigning and distributing
the estate; and the ﬁnal judgment, or decree of the Probate
Court, or, in case of appeal, of the District or Supreme
Court, is binding on all parties interested in the estate.
SEC. 5643. Vhen any estate is assigned or distributed
bl); a judgment or decree of the court, as rovided in this
c apter, to any person residing out of and liaving an agent
in this Territory, and it is -necessary that some person
should be authorized to take ossession and charge of the
same for the beneﬁt of such a sent person, the court may
ap oint an agent for that purpose, and authorize him to
ta e chargﬁ ogsucltestate as well as to act for such absent
person in t e istri ution.
SEC. 5644. The agent must ﬁrst give a bond to the Pro
bate Jud e, to be approved by him, conditioned that he
shall fait fully manage and account for the estate. The
court approvin such agent may allow a reasonable sum out
of the proﬁts 0 the estate for his services and expenses.
SEC. 5645. When ersonal property remains in the
hands of the agent unc aimed for a ear, and it appears to
the court that it is for the beneﬁt of t ose interested, it shall
be sold under the order of the court; and the proceeds, after
deducting the ex enses of the sale allowed by the court, must
be paid into the erritorial Treasury. When the ayment
is made the agent must take from the Treasury dup icate re
cei ts, one of which he must ﬁle in the oﬂice of the Territo
ria Controller, and the other in the Probate Court.
SEC. 5646. The agent must render to the Probate
. . . . _
Court appointing him, annually, an account, showing.
1. The value and character of the pro ert received by
him, what portion thereof is still on han , w at sold, and
for what;
2. The income derived therefrom;
3. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for what,and whether paid or un aid
4. Expenses incurre in the care, protection and mana e
ment thereof, and whether paid or unpaid. When ﬁled, t e
Probate Court may examine witnesses and take proofs in re
gard to the account; and if satisﬁed from such accounts and
proofs that it will be for the beneﬁt and advantage of the
persons interested therein, the court may, b order, direct a
saleito be made of the whole or such arts o the real or per
sonal property as shall ap ear to e proper, and the pur
chase money to be deposite in the Territorial Treasury.
SEC. 5647. The agent is liable on his bond for the care
and preservation of the estate while in his hands, and for
the payment of the proceeds of the sale as required in the
preceding sections, and may be sued thereon by any person
interested.
SEC. 5648. When any person a pears and claims the
money paid into the Treasury, the robate Court making
the distribution, must inquire into such claim, and being
ﬁrst satisﬁed of his ri ht thereto, must grant him a certiﬁ
cate to that effect, under its seal; and upon the presentation
of the certiﬁcate to him, the Controller must draw his war
rant on the treasurer for the amount.
SEC. 5649. VVhen the estate has been fully administered, and it is shown by the executor or administrator, by
the production of satisfactory vouchers, that he has paid
all sums of money due from him, and delivered up, under
the order of the court, all the property of the estate, to the
parties entitled, and performed all the acts lawfully re
uired of him, the court must make a judgment or decree
ischar in him from all liability to be incurred thereafter.
SEC. 5650. The ﬁnal settlement of an estate does not
prevent the subsequent issuance of letters testamentary, or
of administration with the will annexed, whenever other
property of the estate is discovered, or whenever it becomes
necessary or proper, from any cause, that letters should
be again issued.
SECTION 5655. All orders and decrees made by the Probate
Court during its terms, and all orders which the Probate
Judge is specially authorized to make out of term-time, or
at c ambers, must be entered at length in the minute book
of the court. Upon the close of each term the Judge must
si n the minutes. _ _ _
EC. 5656. VVhen any publication i_s ordered, such pub
lication must be made daily or otherwise, as often during
the prescribed period as the paper is regularly issued, unless
otherwise provided in this Title. The court or Judge may,
however, order a less number of publications during the
period. _ _ _ _ _ _
SE0. 5657. VVhen it is provided in this Title that any
order or decree of a Probate Court or Judge, ora co y there
of, must be recorded in the oﬂice of the County ecorder,
from the time of ﬁling the same for record, notice is impart
ed to allpersons of the contents thereof.
SEC. 5658. Citations must be directed to the erson to
be cited, signed by the clerk, and issued under t ie seal of
the court, and must contain:
1. The title of the proceeding;
2. A brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;
3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and
place speciﬁed. _
SEC. 5659. The citation may be issued by the clerk
upon the application of any party, without an order of the
Judge, exce t in cases in which such order is by the provis
ions of this itle expressly required.
SEC. 5660. The citation must be served in the same
manner as a summons in a civil action.
SEC. 5661. When personal notice is required, and no
mode of giving it is prescribed in this Title, it must be given
by citation.
SEC. 5662. When no other time is specially prescribed
in this Title, citations must be served at least ﬁve days
before the return day thereof.
SEC. 5663. When a complete description of the real
property of an estate sought to be sold has been given and
pub ished in a newspaper, as re uired in the order to show
cause wh the sale should not e made, such description
need not e published in any subsequent notice of sale, or
notice of a petition for the conﬁrmation thereof. It is suf
ﬁcient to refer to the descri tion contained in the publica
tionrtof the ﬁrst notice, as eing proved and on ﬁle in the
cou . .
SEC. 5664. Except as otherwise provided in this Title,
the provisions of Part II of this Code are a plicable to and
constitute the rules of practice in the procee ings mentioned
in this Title.
SEC. 5665. The rovisions of Part II of this Code, rela
tive to new trials an appeals—except in so far as they are in
consistent with the provisions of this Title—apply to the
proceedings mentioned in this Title. .
SEC. 5666. The appeal must be taken within sixty days
after the order, decree, or judgment is entered.
SEC. 5667. All issues of fact joined in the Probate
Court must be tried in conformity with the re uirements of
Chapter II of this Title, in cases of contests o wills, and in
all such proceedings the part aﬂirming is plaintifff, and the
one denying or avoiding is efendant. Jud ents therein
on the issues joined, as well as for costs, may e entered and
enforced by execution or otherwise, by the Probate Court,
as in civil actions.
SEC. 5668. If no jury is demanded, the court must try
the issues joined. If, on written demand, a jury is called
by either party, and the issues are not sufficiently made up
by the written pleadings on ﬁle, the court, on due notice, to
the opposite arty, must settle and frame the issues to be
tried, and su mit the same, to ether with the evidence of
each party, to the jury, on whic they must rendera verdict.
Either ma move for a new trial upon the same(grounds and
errors, an in like manner, as provided in this ode for civil
actions.
SEC. 5669. At or before the hearing of petitions and
contests for the probate of wills, for letters testamentary or
of administration; for sales _of real estate, and conﬁrmations
thereof; settlements, partition, and distribution of estates,
setting apart homesteads, and all other proceedings where
all the parties interested in the estate are required to be no
tiﬁed thereof, the court may, in its discretion, ap oint some
competent attorney at law to represent in _all suc roceed
ings, the devisees, legatees, heirs, or creditors of t e dece
dent, who are minors and have no fgeneral guardian in the
county, or who are non-residents o the Territory; and those
interested who, though they are neither such minors or non
residents, are unrepresented. The order must specify the
names of the parties, so far as known, for whom the attorney
is appointed, who is thereby authorized to represent suc
parties in all such proceedings had_ subsequent to his ap
pointment. The attorney ma receive a fee, to be ﬁxed b
the court,for his services, whic must be paid out of the fun s
of the estate as necessary expenses of administration, and up
on distribution may be charged t_o the party represented
by the attorney. If, for any cause, it becomes necessary, the
court may substitute another attorney for the one ﬁrst af
pointed, in which case the fee must be proportionately '
vided. The non-appointment of an attorney will not affect
the validit of an of the proceedings.
SEC. 56 O. hen a judgment or decree is made, settin *
apart a homestead, conﬁrming a sa.le, making distribution o
real estate, or determinin any other matter affecting the title to real estate, a certi ed copy of the same must be re
corded in the office of the Recorder of the county in which
the land is situated.
SEC. 5671. When it is not otherwise prescribed in this Title, the Probate Court or the District or Supreme Court,
on appeal, ma , in its discretion, order costs to be aid by
any party to t e proceedings, or out of the assets o the es
tate, as justice may require. Execution for the costs may
issue out of the Probate Court.
SEC. 5672. Whenever an executor, administrator, or
ardian is committed for contem t, in disobeying any law
ul order of the Probate Court or t e Judge thereof, and has
remained in custod for thirty days without obeying such
order or purging imself otherwise of the contempt, the
Probate Court may, by order recitin the facts, and without
further showing or notice, revoke is letters and appoint
some other person entitled thereto, executor, administrator,
or guardian in his stead.
SEC. 5673. Whenever an infant, insane, or incompetent
person, has a guardian of his estate residing in this Terri
tory, personal service upon the guardian o any process,
notice, or order of the court concerning the estate of a de
ceased person, in which the ward is interested, is equiva
lent to the service upon the ward, and it is the dut of the
guardian to attend to the interests of the ward in t e mat
ter. Such guardian may also appear for his ward and waive
any process, notice or order to show cause, which an adult
or a person of sound mind might do.
SEC. 5674. If any person has died, or shall hereafter
die, who at the time of his death was the owner of a life
estate which terminates by reason of the death of such per
son, any person interested in the property, or in the title
thereto, in which such life estate was held, may ﬁle in the
Probate Court of the county in which the property is situ
ated his veriﬁed petition setting forth such facts, and there
upon, and after such notice, by ublication or otherwise, as
the court may order, the court s all hear such etition and
the evidence offered in support thereof, andi , upon such
hearing, it shall a pear that such life estate of such de
ceased person abso utely terminated by reason of his death,
the court shall make a decree to that eifect, and thereu on
a certiﬁed copy of such decree may be recorded in the o ce
of the County Recorder, and thereafter shall have the same
eﬂ:'ect as a ﬁnal decree of distribution so recorded.
SECTION 5680. The County Treasurers of the various
counties of this Territory are hereby declared to be ex-ofﬁcio
piﬁblic administrators in their res ective counties. Each
blic Administrator shall, before e enters u on the duties
of his oﬁice, take and ﬁle his oﬁicial oath an execute and
ﬁle an oiiicial bond, conditioned as the bonds of other coun
ty oiﬁcers are, with two good and suﬂicient sureties, in a
sum not less than two thousand dollars; Provided, That
the Probate Court may, upon reasonable -cause therefore
shown, 1'83 ire at any time a new oiﬁcial bond, or an addi
tional bon , to be given upon ten days’ notice in writintg.
SEC. 5681. Every Public Administrator duly quali ed,
must take charge of the estates of persons dying within his
county, as follows:
1. Of the estates of decedents for which no administra
tors are appointed, and which, in consequence thereof, are
being wasted, uncared for or lost;
2. Of the estates of decedents who have no known heirs;
3. Of estates ordered into his hands by the Probate
Court; and,
4. Of estates upon which letters of administration have
been issued to him b the Probate Court, as provided in
Chapter III of this Tit e.
SEC. 5682. VVhenever a Public Administrator takes
charge of an estate which he is entitled under the provis
ions of Chapter III, of this Title, to administer without let
ters of administration being issued, or under order of the
court, he must, with all convenient dispatch, procure letters
of administration thereon. No notice of application for let
ters by a Public Administrator is necessary, and his ofﬁcial
bond and oath are in lieu of the administrator’s bond and
oath- but when real estate is ordered to be sold, another
bond may be required by the court.
SEC. 5683. Whenever a stranger or person without
known heirs, dies intestate in the house or premises of an
other, the possessor of such premises, or any one knowing
the facts, must 've immediate notice thereof to the public
administrator o the county; and in default of so doing, he
is liable for any damage that may be sustained thereby, to
be recovered by the Public Administrator, or any party in
terested.
SEC. 5684. The Public Administrator must make and
return a perfect inventory of all estates taken into his pos
session, administer and account for the same, according to
the provisions of this Title, suvbject to the control and direc
tion of the Probate Court. hen, as shown by the in
ventory, the estate amounts to less than two hundred and
ﬁfty dollars, no notice to creditors or other formal proceed
ings by the Public Administrator are required, but after the
pa ent of the funeral expenses, the expenses of the last
sic ess and of administration, the Probate Court must
order the residue, if any, converted into money and paid as
may be just to such creditors or heirs as may appear, or into
the Territorial Treasury as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 5685. If, at any time, letters testamentary or of
administration are regularly granted to any other erson on
an estate of which the Public Administrator has c arge, he
must, under the order of the Probate Court, account for, pay,
and deliver to the executor or administrator thus appointed,
all the money, property papers, and estate of every kind in
his possession or under his control.
SEC. 5686. -All civil oiﬁcers must inform the Public Ad
ministrator of all property known to them, belonging to a
decedent, which is liable to loss, injury, or waste, and
which, by reason thereof, ought to be in the possession of
the Public Administrator.
SEC. 5687. The Public Administrator must institute all
suits and prosecutions necessary to recover the property,
debts, pa ers, or other estate of the decedent.
SEC. 5 88. When the Public Administrator complains
to the Probate Judge, on oath, that any person has con
cealed, embezzled, or disposed of, or has in his possession,
any money, goods, property, or effects, to the possession of
which such administrator is entitled in his oﬂicial capacity,
the Judge may cite such person to appear before the Probate
Court, and may examine him on oath touching the matter
of such com laint.
SEC. 568 . All such interrogatories and answers must
be reduced to writing and signed by the party examined,
and ﬁled in the Probate Court. If the person so cited refuses
to appear and submit to such an examination, or to answer
such interrogatories as may be put to him touching the mat
ter of such complaint, the court may commit him to the
county jail, there to remain in close custody until he sub
mits to the order of the court.
SEC. 5690. The Probate Court may at any time, order
the Public Administrator to account for and deliver all the
money and property of an estate in his hand, to the heirs, or
to the executors or administrators regularly appointed.
SEC. 5691. The Public Administrator must, once in
every six months, make to the Probate Judge, under oath,
a return of all estates of decedents which have come into
his hands, the value of the same, the money which has
come into his hands from each estate, and what he has done
with it, and the amount of his fees and expenses incurred,
and the balance, if any, remaining in his hands.
Snc. 5692. After a ﬁnal settlement of the affairs of any
estate, if there be no heirs or other claimants thereof, the
Public Administrator must pay into the Territorial Treas
ury, all monies and effects in his hands belonging to the
estate, as provided in Chapter XI of this Title for payments
by agents.
SEC. 5693. The Public Administrator must not be in
terested in the expenditures of any kind, made on account
of any estate he administers; nor must he be associated, in
business or otherwise, with any one who is so interested. _
SEC. 5694. When it ap ears, that any money remains
in the hands of the Public dministrator (after a ﬁnal set
tlement of the estate) unclaimed, which should be paid over
to the Territorial Treasurer, the Probate Jud e must order
the same to be paid over; and, on failure of t e Public Ad
ministrator to com ly with the order within ten days after
the same is made, t e District Attorney for the county must
immediately institute the requisite legal proceedings against
the Public Administrator for a judgment against him and
the sureties on his oﬂicial bond, in the amount of money
so withheld, and costs.
iven in this chapter
SEC. 5695. When no direction is
for the government or idance of a ublic Administrator
in the discharge of his uties, or for the administration of
an estate in his hands, the provisions of the preceding chap-'
ters of this Title must govern.
CHAPTER XIV.
SUCCESSION.
Sacrrxox Smrriox
5700. Succession deﬁned. 5709. Value of advancements, how deter
5701. mined.
When heir, advanced to, dies before
5702.
5703.
5704.
6705.
5706.
5707.
5708.
Who ﬁrst succeeds to possession oi
estates not devised, and for what
5710.
decedent.
Inheritance oi husband and wife
from each other.
Distribution oi the common prcperty
in case of death of the wife.
Distribution oi common property on
death oi the husband.
Inheritance by representation.
Aliens may inherit, when and how.
Succession not claimed, Attorney
General to cause to be sold and
5717. ‘v!i1r:l‘1:eY?]I‘l16ﬂ}(I>il'°0li)o8Bl'iﬁt;€l..11d estate goes
to the school fund.
SECTION 5700. Succession is the coming in of another
£0 talrlg the property of one who dies without disposing of it
ywi .
purpose.
Succession to and distribution oi
roperty.
I egitimate children to inherit in
certain events.
The mother is successor to illegiti
mate child.
Degrees of kindred, bow computed.
Relatives of the hali blood.
Advancements constitute part of dis
tributive share.
Advancements when too much, or not
enough.
What are advancements.
5711.
5712.
5713.
571-1.
5715.
5716.
SEC. 5701. The property both real and personal, of one
who dies without disposing of it by will, passes to the heirs
of the intestate, subject to the control of the Probate Court,
and to the ossession of any administrator appointed by that
court for t e puiggroses of administration.
Si:c.- 5702. hen any_ person having title to any estate
not otherwise limited by marriage contract, dies without
disposin of the estate b Will, it is succeeded to and must
be distri uted, unless ot erwise expressly provided in this
Code, subject to the payment of his debts, in the following
manner: it
1. If the decedent leave a surviving husband or wife, and
only one child, or the lawful issue of one child in equal shares
to the survivin husband or wife and child, or issue of such
child. If the ecedent leave a survivin husband or wife.
and more than one child living, or one'c lild living and the
lawful issue of one or more deceased children, one-third to
the surviving husband or wife, and the remainder in equal
shares to his children and to the lawful issue of any deceased
child by right of representation- but if there be no child of
the decedent living at his death, the remainder goes to all
of his lineal descendants; and if all the descendants are in
the same degree of kindred to the decedent, they share
equally, otherwise they take according to the right of rep
resentation. If the decedent leave no surviving husband or
wife, but leave issue, the whole estate goes to such issue;
and if such issue consists of more than one child living, or
one child living and the lawful issue of one or more deceased
children, then the estate goes in equal shares to the children
living or to the child living, and the issue of the deceased
child or children by right of representation.
2. If the decedent leave no issue, the estate goes, one-half
to the surviving husband or wife, and the other half to the
decedent’s father and mother in equal shares, and if either
be dead, the whole of said half oes to the other; if there be
no father or mother, then one- alf goes in equal shares to
the brothers and sisters of the decedent, and to the children
of any deceased brother or sister by ri ht of representa
tion. If the decedent leave no issue, nor usband, nor wife,
the estate must go to his father and mother, in equal shares,
or if either be dead, then to the other.
3. If there be neither issue, husband, wife, father, nor
mother, then in equal shares to the brothers and sisters of
the decedent, and to the children of any deceased brother or
sister by right of representation.
4. If the decedent leaves a survivin husband or wife,
and neither issue, father, mother, brot er, nor sister, the
whole estate oes to the survivin husband or wife.
5. If the ecedent leave neit er issue, husband, wife,
father, mother, brother, nor sister, the estate must go to
the next of kin in equal degree, excelpting that when there
are two or more collateral kindre in equal de ee, but
claiming through different ancestors, those w 0 claim
through the nearest ancestors must be preferred’ to those
claiming through an ancestor more remote.
6. If the decedent leave several children, or one child
and the issue of one or more children, and any such surviv~
ing child dies under age, and not having been married, all
the estate that came to the deceased chlld by inheritance
from such decedent descends in equal shares to the other
children of the same parent, and to the issue of any such
other children who are dead, by right of representation.
7. If at the death of such child, who dies under age, not
having been married, all the other children of his parents,
are also dead, and any of them'have left issue, the estate
that came to such child by inheritance from his parents
descends to the issue of all other children of the same ar
ent; and if all the issues are in the same degree of kin red
to the child, they share the estate equally, otherwise they
take according to the right of representation.
8. If the decedent be a widow or widower, and leave no
kindred, and the estate, or any portion thereof, was com
mon property of such decedent, and his or her deceased
spouse, while such spouse was living, such common prop
erty shall go to the father of such deceased spouse, or if he
be dead, to the mother. If there be no father nor mother,
then such property shall go to the brothers and sisters of
such deceased spouse, in equal shares, and to the lawful
issue of any deceased brother or sister of such deceased
spouse, by right of representation.
9. If the ecedent leave no husband, wife, or kindred,
and there be no heirs to take his estate, or any portion
thereof, under subdivision eight, of this section, the same
shall be paid into the Territorial Treasury for the support
of common schools. _ _
SEC. 5703. Every illegitimate child is an heir of the
person who, in writing, signed in the presence of a compe
tent witness, acknowledges himself to be the father of such
child; and in all cases is an heir of his mother; and inher
its his or her estate, in whole or in part as the case may be,
in the same manner as if he had been born in lawful wed
lock, but he does not represent his father or mother by in
heriting an part of the estate of his or her kindred, either
lineal or co lateral, unless before his death, his parents shall
have intermarried, and his father, after such marriage, ac
knowledges him as his child or adopts him into his family;
in which case such child and all the legitimate children are
considered brothers and sisters, and on the death of either
of them, intestate and without issue, the others inherit his
estate and are heirs as hereinbefore provided, in like man
ner as if all the children had been legitimate; saving to the
father and mother respectively, their ri hts in the estates
of all the children in like manner as if a had been legiti
mate. The issue of all marriages null in law, or dissolved
by divorce, are legitimate.
SEC. 5704. If an illegitimate child who has not been ac
knowledged or adopted by his father, dies intestate without
lawful issue, his estate goes to his mother, or in case of her
decease, to her heirs at law.
SEC. 5705. The decrees of kindred are com leted ac
cording to the rules of the civil law. Kindred o the half
blood inherit equally with those of the whole blood in the
same degree, unless the inheritance come to the intestate b
descent, devise or gift of some one of his ancestors, in whic
case all those who are not of the blood of such ancestors
must be excluded from such inheritance.
SEC. 5706. Any estate, real or personal, given by the
decedent in his lifetime, as an advancement to any child or
other lineal descendant, is a part of the estate of the dece
dent for the purpose of division and distribution thereof
among his issue, and must be taken b such child, or other
lineal descendant, toward his share o the estate of the de
cedent.
SEC. 5707. If the amount of such advancement exceeds
the share of the heir receiving the same, he must be exclud
ed from any further portion in the division and distribution
of the estate, but he must not be required to refund any
part of such advancement; and if the amount so received is
less than his share, he is entitled to so much more as will
give him his full share of the estate of the decedent.
Snc. 5708. All gifts and grants are made as advance
ments, if expressed 1n the gift or grant to be so made, or if
charged in writing by the decedent as an advancement, or
acknowledged in writing as such by the child or other suc
cessor or heir.
SEC. 5709. If the value of the estate so advanced is ex
grossed in the conveyance, or in the charge thereof made
y the decedent, or in the acknowledgment of the party re
ceiving it, it must be held as of that value in the division
and distribution of the estate; otherwise it must be estimat
ed according to its value when given, as nearly as the same
can be ascertained.
SEC. 5710. If any child or other lineal descendant re
ceivin advancement dies before the decedent leaving issue,
the a vancement must be taken into consideration in the division and distribution of the estate, and the amount there
of, must be allowed accordingly by the re resentatives of
the heirs receiving the advancement, in li e manner as if
the advancement had been made directly to them.
SEC. 571 1. The provisions of the precedin sections
of this chapter, as to the inheritance of the hus and and
wife from each other, apply only to the separate property of
the decedents.
SEC. 5712. Upon the death of the wife, the entire com
munity property, without administration, belon s to the
survivlng husband, except such portion thereo as may
have been set apart to her, by judicial decree, for her sup
port and maintenance, which portion is subject to her tes
tamentary disposition, and in the absence of such dis osi
Eiona goes to her descendants, or heirs, exclusive of her us
an .
SEC. 5713. Upon the death of the husband, one-half of
the community property goes to the surviving wife, and the
other half is subject to t e testamentary disposition of .the
husband, and in the absence of such disposition, goes to his
descendants, e uall , if such descendants are in the same de
gree of kindre to t e decedent; otherwise, accordin to the
right of representation; and in the absence of bot such
dis osition and such descendants, is subject to distribution.
in t e same manner as the se arate property of the husband.
In case of the dissolution of t e community by the death of
the husband, the entire community property is equally sub
ject to his debts, the family allowance, and the charges and
ex enses of administration.
so. 5714. Inheritance or succession “by right of rep
resentation” takes place when the descendants of any de
ceased heir take the same share or ri ht in the estate of an
other person that their parents woul have taken if livin .
Posthumous children are considered as living at the deat 1
of their arents. ,
SEC. 715. Resident aliens may take in all cases by
succession as citizens; and no person capable of succeedin
under the rovisions of this itle is precluded from suc
succession ﬂy reason of the alienage of any relative; but no
non-resident foreigner, can take, by succession, unless he
appears and claims such succession within ﬁve years after
the death of the decedent to whom he claims succession.
SEC. 5716. When succession is not claimed as provided
in the receding section, the District Court, on information,
must irect the Attorney General to reduce the property to
his or the possession of the Territory, or to cause the same
to be sold, and the same, or the proceeds thereof, to be de
posited in the Territorial Treasury for the beneﬁt of such
non-resident foreigner, or his legal representative, to be
paid to him whenever, within ﬁve ears after such deposit
roof to the satisfaction of the erritorial Controller and
reasurer, is produced that he is entitled to succeed thereto.
SEC. 5717. When so claimed, the evidence and the
joint order of the Controller and Treasurer, must be ﬁled by
the Treasurer as his voucher, and the property delivered or
the proceeds paid to the claimant on ﬁ ing his receipt there
for. If no one succeeds to the estate or the proceeds, as
herein provided, the property of the decedent IS placed by
the Territorial Treasurer, to the credit of the school fund.
CHAPTER XV.
OF WILLS.
SECTION SECTION
5725. Who may make a W111. 5744. Children or issue of children of tel
5726. Separate property of married wo- tator unprovided ior by will.
men. 5745. Share oi alter born child, out of
5727. Written will, how to be executed. what part 0! estate to be paid.
5728. Deﬁnition of an olographic will. 5746. Advancement during liletlme of
5729. Witness to add residence. testator.
5730. Competency oi subscribing witness. 5747. Death oi devisee, etc.
5731. Written will, how revoked. 5748. Devlsee of land, how construed.
5732. Evidence of revocation. 57-$9. Will passes after acquired estates.
5733. Revocation of duplicate. 5750. Restriction to power oi devisee to
5734. Anteoedent not revived by revoca- charitable uses.
tion oi’ subsequent will. 5751. Property oi intestate chargeable
5735. Revocation by marriage and birth oi with debts.
issue. 5752. Order oi, resort to property for pay
5736. Ellect of marriage of a man on his ment of debts.
will. 5753. Same; payment of legacies.
5737. Eﬂeet oi marriage of a woman on 5754. Same.
her will. 755. Speciﬁc devises and legacies.
5738. Contract oi sale not a revocation. 5756. Legacies, when due.
5739. Mortgage not a revocation . 5757. Executor not to act till qualiiied.
5740. Conveyance, not a revocation, when. 5758. Provisions as to revocations.
5741. When it is a revocation. 5759. Prior wills, execution oi, etc., not
5742. Revocation of codicils. etlective.
5743. Aiter born child, unprovided tor, to 5760. Law of place applies.
lI.l0O86d .
SECTION 5725. Every person over the age of eighteen
years, of sound mind, may, by last will, dispose of all his
estate, real and (personal, and such estate not disposed of by
will is succeede to as provided in Cha ter XIV of this Title,
bein char eable in both cases with t epayment of all the
dece ent’s ebts, as provided in this Code.
SEC. 5726. A married woman may dispose of all her
separate estate by will, without the consent of her husband,
and may alter or revoke the will in like manner as if she
were single. Her will must be attested, witnessed, and
proved in like manner as all other wills.
SEC. 5727. Every will, other than a nuncupative will,
must be in writing, and every will, other than an olographic
will, and a nuncupative will, must be executed and attested
as follows:
1. It must be subscribed at the end thereof by the testa
tor himself, or some person in his presence and by his direc
tion must subscribe his name thereto;
2. The subscription must be made in the presence of the
attesting witnesses or be acknowledged by the testator to
them, to have been made by him or by his authority;
3. The testator must, at the time of subscribing or ac
knowledging the same, declare to the attesting witnesses
that the instrument is his will; and,
4. There must be two attesting witnesses, each of whom
must sign his name as a witness, at the end of the will, at
the testator’s request, and in his presence.
SEC. 5728. An olographic will is one that is entirely
written, dated and signed, by the hand of the testator him
self. It is subject to no other form, and may be made in or
out of this Territory, and need not be witnessed.
SEC. 5729. A witness to a written will must write,
with his name, his place of residence; and a person who
subscribes the testator’s name, by his direction, must write
his own name as a witness to the will. But a violation of
this section does not affect the validity of the will.
SEC. 5730. If the subscribing witnesses to a will are
competent at the time of attesting its execution, their sub
sequent incompetency, from whatever cause it may arise,
does not prevent the probate and allowance of the will, if it
is otherwise satisfactorily proved.
SEC. 5731. Exce t in the cases in this Chapter men
tioned, no written wi l, nor any part thereof, can be revoked
or altered otherwise than:
1. By a written will, or other writing of the testator, de
clarin such revocation or alteration, and executed with the
same ormalities with which a will should be executed by
such testator; or,
2. By being burnt, torn. canceled, obliterated, or de
stroyed, with the intent and for the purpose of revoking the
same, by the testator himself, or by some person in.his pre
sence and by his direction.
SEC. 5732. When a will is canceled or destroyed by any
other person than the testator, the direction of the testator,
and the fact of such injury or destruction, must be proved
by two witnesses.
SEC. 5733. The revocation of a will, executed in dupli
cate, may be made by revoking one of the duplicates.
Sac. 5734. If, after makin a will, the testator duly
makes and executes a second wi , the destruction, cancella
tion, or revocation of such second will does not revive the
ﬁrst will, unless it appears by the terms of such revocation
that it was the intention to revive and give effect to the ﬁrst
will, or unless, after such destruction, cancellation, or re
vocation, the ﬁrst will is duly republished.
SEC. 5735. If, after having made a will, the testator
marries, and has issue of such marriage, born either in his
lifetime or after his death, and the wife or issue survives
him, the will is revoked, unless provision has been made for
such issue by some settlement, or unless such issue are pro
vided for in the will, or in such way mentioned therein as
to show an intention not to make such provision; and no
other evidence to rebut the presumption of such revocation
can be received.
SEC. 5736. If, after making a will the testator marries,
and the wife survives the testator, the will is revoked, un
less provision has been made for her by marria e contract,
or unless she is provided for in the will, or in suc way men
tioned therein as to show an intention not to make such pro
vision; and no other evidence to rebut the presumption of
revocation must be received.
SEC. 5737. A will, executed by an unmarried woman
is revoked by her subsequent marriage, and is not revive
by the death of her husband.
Sec. 5738. An agreement made by a testator for the sale
or transfer of property dis osed of by a will previously
made, does not revoke such isposal; but the pro erty passes
the by will, subject to the same remedies on t e testator’s
agreement, for a speciﬁc performance or otherwise against
the devisees or le atees, as mi ht be had against the testa
tor’s successors, i the same ha passed by succession.
SEC. 5739. A charge or encumbrance u on any estate
for the purpose of securing the payment o money or the
performance of an covenant or agreement, is not a revoca
tion of any will re ating to the same estate which was pre
viously executed; but the devise and legacies therein con
tained must pass, subject to such charge or encumbrance.
SEC. 5740. A conveyance, settlement, or other act of a
testator, by which his interest in a thin reviously dis
posed of by his will is altered, but not w o ly divested, is
not a revocation; but the will passes the property which
would otherwise devolve by succession.
SEC. 5741. If the instrument by which an alteration is
made in the testator’s interest in a thing previously disposed
of by his will expresses his intent that it shall be a revoca
tion, or if it contains provisions wholly inconsistent with
the terms and nature of the testamentary disposition, it
operates as a revocation thereof, unless such inconsistent
provisions depend on a condition or contingency by reason
of which they do not take effect.
SEC. 5742. The revocation of a will revokes all its
codicils.
SEC. 5743. Whenever a testator has a child born after
the makin of his will, either in his lifetime or after his
death, an dies leaving such child unprovided for by any
provided for nor in any way men
-settlement, and neither
tioned inhis will, the c ild succeeds to the same portion
of the testator’s real and personal pro erty that he would
have succeeded to if the intestator had ied intestate.
SEC. 5744. When any testator omits to provide in his
will for any of his children, or for the issue of any deceased
child, unless it appears that such omission was intentional,
such child, or the issue of such child, must have the same
share in the estate of the testator as if he had died intestate,
and succeeds thereto as provided in the preceding section.
SEC. 5745. VVhen any share of the estate of a testator
is assi ned to a child born after the making of a will, or to
a chil , or the issue of a child omitted in the will, as herein
before mentioned, the same must ﬁrst be taken from the es
tate not disposed of by the will, if any; if that is not suffi
cient, so much as may be necessary must be taken from all
the devisees or legatees, in pro ortion to the value they
may respectively receive under t e will, unless the obvious
intention of the testator in relation to some speciﬁc devise
or bequest, or other provision in the will, would thereby be
defeated; in such case, such speciﬁc devise, legacy or pro
vision may be exempted from such apportionment, and a
diﬁerent apportionment, consistent with the intention of
the testator, ma be ado ted.
SEC. 5746. lf such o ildren, ortheir descendants, so un
provided for, had an equal proportion of the testator's es
tate bestowed on them in the testator’s lifetime, by way of
advancement, the take nothing in virtue of the provisions
of the three rece ing sections.
SEC. 574 . When any estate is devised to an child or
other relation of the testator, and the devisee dies efore the
testator, leaving lineal descendants, such descendants take
the estate so given by the will in the same manner as
the devisee would have done had he survived the testator.
SEC. 5748. Every devisee of land in any will conveys
all the estate of the devisor therein, which he could lawfully
devise, unless it clearly appears by the will that he intended
to conve a less estate.
SEC. 749. Any estate, right or interest in lands ac
uired by the testator after the makin of his will, passes
t ereby and in like manner as if the tit e thereto was vested
in him at the time of makin the will, unless the contrary
manifestly appears by the wil to have been the intention
of the testator. Every will made in express terms devising,
or in an other terms denoting the intent of the testator to
devise a the real estate of such testator, passes all the real
estate which-such testator was entitled to devise at the time
of his decease.
SEC. 5750. No estate, real or personal, shall be be
queathed or devised to any charitable or benevolent society
or corporation, or to any person or persons in trust for char
itable uses, except the same be done by will duly executed
at least thirty days before the decease of the testator; and
if so made, at least thirty days prior to such death, such de
vise or legacy, and each of- them shall be valid; Provided,
That no such devises or bequests shall collectively exceed
one-third of the estate of the testator leaving lineal descend
ants, and in such case, a pro rata deduction from such de
vises or beguests shall be made so as to reduce the aggre
gate thereo to one-third of such estate; and all dispositions
of property made contrary hereto shall be void, and go to
the residuary legatee or devisee next of kin, or heirs, accord
ing to law.
EC. 5751. When a person dies intestate, all his prop
erty, real and personal, without any distinction between
them, is chargeable with the ayment of his debts, except
as otherwise provided in this C¥()>de.
SEC. 5752. The pro erty of a testator, except as other
wise specially provided or in this Code, must be resorted to
for the lpayment of debts in the following order:
1. T e property which is expressly appropriated by the
will for the payment of the debts;
2. Property not disposed of by the will;
1 3. Property which is devised or bequeathed to a residuary
egatee;
4. Property which is not specially devised or bequeathed;
and,
' 5. All other roperty ratably. Before any debts are paid,
the expenses o the administration and the allowance to the
family must be aid or provided for.
SEC. 5753. he(Property of a testator, except as other
wise specially provi ed for in this Code, must be resorted to
for the payment of legacies, in the following order:
1. The property which is expressly appropriated by the
will for the payment of the le acies ;
2. Property not disposed of y the will ;
1 3. tProperty which 1S devised or bequeathed to a residuary
ega ee;
4. Progerty which is (not) speciﬁcally devised or be
queathe .
SEC. 5754. Legacies to husband, widow, or kindred of
any class are chargeable only after legacies to persons not
related to the testator.
Sac. 5755. In a speciﬁc devise or legacy, the title passes
by the will, but possession can only be obtained from the
personal representative; and he may be authorized by the
yudge of the Probate Court to sell the property devised and
equeathed, in the cases herein provided.
SEC. 5756. Legacies are due and deliverable at the ex
piration of one year after the testator’s decease. Annuities
commence at the testator’s decease.
SEC. 5757. No person has any power, as an executor,
until he qualiﬁes, except that, before letters have been is
sued, he may pay funeral charges and take necessary meas
ures for the reservation of the estate.
SEC. 575 . The provisions of this Title in relation to the
revocation of wills apply to all wills made by any testator
liéing at the expiration of one year from the time it takes
e ect.
SEC. 5759. The provisions of this Title do not impair
the validity of the execution of any will made before it takes
effect, or aifect the construction of any such will.
SEC. 5760. Except as otherwise provided, the validity
and interpretation of wills are governed, when relating to
real pro erty within this Territory, by the law of this Territory;
w en relating to personal’ property, by the law of the
testator’s domicile. '
SECTION 5770. The Probate Court of each county, when it
appears necessary or convenient, may appoint guardians for
the persons and estates, or either of them, of minors who
have no guardian legally appointed b will or deed, and
who are inhabitants or residents of t e county, or who
reside without the Territory and have estate within the
county. Such appointment may be made on the petition of
a relative or other person on behalf of the minor, or on the
petition of the minor, if fourteen years of age. Before
making such a pointment, the court must cause such notice
as such court eems reasonable to any person having the
care of such minor, and to such relatives of the minor in
the county as the court may deem proper.
SEC. 5771. If the minor is under the age of fourteen
years, the Probate Court may nominate and appoint his
guardian. If he is above the age of fourteen ears, he may
nominate his own guardian, who, if approve by the court,
must be appointed accordingly.
SEC. 5772. If the guardian nominated by the minor is
not approved b the court, or if the minor resides out of the
Territory, or i , after being duly cited by the court, he
neglects for ten days to nominate a suitable person, the
court may nominate and appoint the guardian, in the same
manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen
years.
Snc. 5773. When a ardian has been appointed by the
court for a minor under t e age of fourteen, the minor, at
any time after he attains that age, map a point his own
guardian, subject to the approval of the robate Court.
SEC. 5774. The father of the minor, if living, and in
case of his decease the mother, while she remains unmarried,
being) themselves respectively competent to transact their
own usiness and not otherwise unsuitable, must be entitled
to the guardianship of the minor.
SEC. 5775. If the minor has no father or mother living,
competent to have the custody and care of his education, the
guardian a ointed shall have the same.
SEC. 57'¥6. Ever guardian appointed shall have the
custody and care of t e education of the minor, and the care
and mana ement of his estate, until such minor arrives at
the age o majority or marries, or until the guardian is
le ally discharged.
no. 5777. Before the order a pointin any
guardian under this chapter takes e ect, an before etters
issue, the Judge must require of such person a bond to the
minor, with sufiicient sureties, to be approved by the Jud e,
and in such sum as he shall order, conditioned that t e
guardian will faithfully execute the duties of his trust ac
cordin to law; and the following conditions shall form a
part o such bond, without being ex ressed therein:
1. To make an inventory of all t e estate, real and er
sonal, of his ward that comes to his possession or knowle ge,
anal to return the same within such time as the Judge may
or er;
2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to law
and for the est interest of the ward, and faithfully to dis
charge his trust in relation thereto, and also in relation to the
care, custody, and education of the ward;
3. To render an account, on oath, of the roperty, estate,
and monies of the ward in his hands, and lproceeds or in
terests derived therefrom, and of the management and dis
position of the same, within three months after his appoint
ment, and at such other times as the court directs; and at
the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts with the
court or with the ward, if he be of full age, or his legal rep
resentatives, and to pay over and deliver all the estate,
monies, and effects remaining in his hands, or due from him
on such settlement, to the erson who is lawfully entitled
thereto. Upon ﬁling the ond, duly approved, letters of
guardianshi must issue to the person appointed. In form,
the letters o guardianship must be substantially the same as
letters of administration; and the oath of the guardian must
be indorsed thereon that he will perform the duties of his
office, as such guardian, according to law.
SEC. 5778. VVhen any person is appointed guardian of
a minor, the Probate Court may, with the consent of such
YCTSOII
person,insert in the order of afppointment conditions not other
wise obligator , providing or the care, treatment, educa
tion, and wel are of the minor. The performance of such
conditions is a part of the duties of the guardian, for the faith
ful performance of which he and the sureties on his bond are
responsible.
SEC. 5779. All letters of guardianship issued, and all
guardians’ bonds executed under the provisions of this chap
ter, with the aﬂidavits and certiﬁcates thereon, must be re
corded by the Clerk of the Probate Court having jurisdic
tion of the persons and estates of the wards.
SEC. 5780. If any minor, having a father living, has
property, the income of which is suﬂicient for his mainten
ance and education in a manner more expensive than his
father can reasonably afford, regard being had to the situ
ation of the father’s famil and to all the circumstances of
the case, the expenses of t e education and maintenance of
such minor ma be defrayed out of the income of his own
property, in w ole or in art, as judged reasonable, and
must be directed by the Pro ate Court; and the charges there
for may be allowed accordingly in the settlement of the ac
counts of his guardian.
SEC. 5781. A guardian of the erson or estate, or of
both, of a child born, or likeliy to be Born, may be applointed
by will or by deed, to take e ect upon the death of t e par
ent aﬁpointingz
1. the Chi d be legitimate, by the father, with the writ
ten consent of the mother, or by either parent, if the other
be dead or inca able of consent;
2. If the chil be illegitimate, by the mother.
SEC. 5782. Every testamentary guardian must give
bond and qualifiy, and has the same powers and must per
form the same uties, with regard to the erson and estate
of his ward, as guardians appointed by tlI1)e Probate Court,
except so far as their powers and duties are legally modiﬁed,
enlarged, or changed by the will by which such guardian
was appointed.
SEC. 5783. Nothing contained in this chapter affects or
impairs the power of any court to appoint a guardian to de
fend the interests of any minor interested in any suit or
matter gending therein.
SEC. 784. When it is represented to the Probate Judge,
upon veriﬁed petition of any relative or friend, that any
person is insane, or from any cause mentally incompetent
to manage his property, the Judge must causeanotice to be
given to the supposed insane or incompetent erson, of the
time and place of hearing the case, not less t an ﬁve days
before the time so appointed, and such erson, if able to at
tend, must be produced before him on t e hearing.
SEC. 5785. If, after a full hearin and examination
upon such petition, it appears to the Pro ate Court that the
person in question is incapable of taking care of himself
and managing his property, the court must appoint a guard
ian of his person and estate, with the powers and duties in
this cha ter speciﬁed.
SEC. 786. Every guardian appointed, as rovided in
the preceding section, has the care and custody o the erson
of his ward, and the management of all his estate untl such
guardian is legally discharged; and he must ive bond to
such ward in like manner and with like con itions as be
fore prescribed with respect to the guardian of a minor.
SEC. 5787. Any person who has been declared insane or
incompetent, or the guardian or any relative of such person,
or any friend may appll by petition, to the Probate Court
of the county in whic e was declared insane, to have the
fact of his restoration to capacity judicially determined.
The petition shall be veriﬁed and s a l state that such per
son is then sane or competent.
Upon receivin the petition the court must appoint a day
for a hearing be ore the _court, and if the petitioner re uest
it, shall order an investigation before a jury, which sha 1 be
summoned and impane ed in the same manner as juries
are summoned and empaneled in civil actions. The court
shall cause notice of the trial to be given to the uardian of
the person so declared insane or incompetent, i there be a
guardian, and to his or her husband or wife, if there be one,
and to his or her father or mother, if livinglin the count .
On the trial the guardian or relative of t e person so e
clared insane or incompetent, and, in the discretion of the
court, any other person may contest the right to the relief
demanded. Witnesses may be required to agpear and testi
f , as in civil cases, and may be called an examined by
t e court on its own motion. If it be found that the erson
be of sound mind and capable of taking care of himse f and
his property, his restoration to capacity shall be adjudged,
and the guardianship of such person, if such person be not
a minor, shall cease.
SEC. 5788. Every ardian appointed under the provis
ions of this cha ter, w ether for a minor or an other per
son, must pay a l just debts due from the war , out of his
personal estate and the income of his real estate, if sum
cient; if not, then out of his real estate, upon obtaining an
order for the sale thereof, and depositing the same in the
manner provided in this Title for the sale of real estate of
decedents.
SEC. 5789. Every guardian must settle all accounts of
the ward, and demand, sue for, and receive all debts due to
him, or ma , with the approbation of the Probate Judge,
compound or the same and give discharges to the debtors
on receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and ef
fects; and he must ap ear for and represent his ward in all
le al suits and procee ings, unless another person is appoint
e for that purpose. '
Sac. 5790. Ever guardian must manage the estate of
his ward frugally an without waste, and apply the income
and roﬁts thereof, as far as may be necessary, for the com
forta le and suitable maintenance, support and education of
the ward and his family, if there be any; and if such income
and proﬁts be insuﬂicient for that purpose, the guardian
may sell the real estate, upon obtaining an order of the
court therefore, as provided, and must a ply the proceeds of
such sale, as far as may be necessary, or the maintenance
and sup ort of the ward and his family, if there be any.
SEC. £791. When a guardian has advanced, for the nec
essary maintenance, support, or education of his ward, an
amount not disproportionate to the value of his estate or his
condition of life, and .the same is made to a pear to the
satisfaction of the court b proper vouchers an proofs, the
guardian must be allowe credit therefore in his settlements.
Whenever a guardian fails, neglects, or refuses to furnish
suitable and necessary maintenance, sup ort or education
for his ward, the court may order him to o so, and enforce
such order by proper process. Whenever any third person,
at his request, supplies a ward with such suitable and nec
essary maintenance, support, or education, and it is shown
to have been done after refusal or neglect of the uardian to
supply the same, the court may direct the guar ian to pay
there or out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due
process.
SEC. 5792. The guardian may join in and assent to a
partition of the real estate of the ward, wherever such assent
may be 'ven b any person.
very guardian must return to the Probate '
Siic. 793.
Court an inventory of the estate of his ward within three
months after his appointment, and annually thereafter.
The Probate Court may, upon a plication for that purpose
by any erson, compel the guar ian to render an account to
the Pro ate Court of the estate of his ward. The inven
tories and accounts so to be returned or rendered must be
sworn to by the guardian. All the estate of the ward des
cribed in the ﬁrst inventory must be appraised by ap
praisers appointed, sworn, and acting in the manner pro
vided for regulating the settlement of the estate of dece
dents. Such inventory, with the appraisement of the prop
erty therein described, must be recorded by the Clerk of the
Probate Court in a proper book kept in his ofﬁce for that
purpose. Whenever any other roperty of the estate of any
ward is discovered, not include in the inventory of the es
tate already returned, and whenever any other property has
been succeeded to or acquired by any ward, or for his beneﬁt,
the like proceedings must be had for the return and ap
praisement thereof that are herein provided in relation to
the ﬁrst inventory and return.
SEC. 5794. The guardian must, upon the_ expiration of
a year from the time of his appointment, and as often there
after as he may be required, resent his account to the Pro
bate Court for settlement an allowance.
SE0. 5795. VVhen an account is rendered by two or
more joint guardians, the Probate Judge may, in his discre
tion, allow- the same upon the oath of any of them.
SEC. 5796. Every guardian must be allowed the amount
of his reasonable ex enses incurred in the execution of his
trust, and he must so have such compensation for his ser
vices as the court in which his accounts are settled deems
just and reasonable.
SEC. 5797. When the income of an estate under guar
dianship is insuﬁicient to maintain the ward and his family,
or to maintain and educate the ward when a minor, his
guardian may sell his real or personal estate for that pur
pose, upon obtaining an order therefore.
SEC. 5798. When it ap ears to the satisfaction of the
court, upon the petition of t ie guardian, that for the beneﬁt
of his ward his real estate, or some part thereof, should be
sold, and the proceeds thereof put out at interest, or invested
in some productive stock, or in the improvement or securit v
of any other real estate of the ward, his guardian may sell
the same for such purpose, upon obtaining an order therefore.
SEC. 5799. If the estate is sold for the urposes meii
tioned in this chapter, the guardian must app y t e proceeds
of the sale to such purposes, as far as necessary, and put
out the residue, if any, on interest, or invest it in the best
manner in his power, until the capital is wanted for the
, or the education
' maintenance of the ward and his famil
of his children, or for the education o the ward when a
minor, in which case the capital may be used for that ur
pose, as far as may be necessary, in ike manner as if it ad
een personal estate of the ward.
SEC. 5800. If the estate is sold for the
ting out or investing the proceeds, the guar ian must make
the investment according to his best judgment, or in pur
suance of any order that may be made by the Probate Court.
SEC. 5801. To obtain an order for such sale, the guar
dian must present to the Probate Court of the county in
which he was appointed uardian, a veriﬁed etition there
for, setting fort the con ition of the estate o his ward, and
the facts and circumstances on which the petition is founded,
tending to show the necessity or expediency of a sale.
SEC. 5802. If it appears to the court or Judge, from the
petition, that it is necessary or would be beneﬁcial to the
ward that the real estate, or some part of it, should be sold,
or that the real and personal estate should be sold, the court
or Judge must thereupon make an order directin the next
of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in t e estate,
to a pear before the court, at a time and lace therein spec
iﬁe , not less than four nor more than eig t weeks from the
time of making such order, to show cause why an order
should not be granted for the sale of such estate. If it ap
pears that it is necessary or would be beneﬁcial to the ward
to sell the personal estate or some part of it, the court must
order the sale to be made.
SEC. 5803. A copy of the order must be personally
served on the next of kin of the ward, and on all persons
interested in the estate, at least fourteen days before the
hearing of the petition, or must be published at least three
successive wee s in a newspaper printed in the county, if
there be none printed in the county, then in such newspaper
as may be speciﬁed by the court or Judge in the order.
If written consent to making the order of sale is sub
scribed by all ersons interested therein, and the next of
kin, notice nee not be served or published.
SEC. 5804. The Probate Court, at the time and
(purpose of put
appointed in the order, or such other time to whic the
hearing is postponed, upon proof of the service or publica
tion of the order, must hear and examine the roofs and
allegations of the petitioner and of the next of in, and of
all other persons interested in the estate who oppose the
ap lication.
EC. 5805. On the hearing the guardian may be ex
amined on oath, and witnesses may be produced and
examined by either party, and process to compel their
attendance and testimony may be issued by the Probate
lace
Court or Judge, in the same manner and with like effect as
in other cases provided for in this Title.
SEC. 5806. If any person appears and objects to the
granting of any order prayed for under the provisions of
this chapter, and it appears to the court that either the
petition or the objection thereto is sustained, the court may,
in granting or refusing the order, award costs to the party
prevailin , and enforce the payment thereof.
SEC. 5 07. If, after a full examination, it appears
necessary, or for the beneﬁt of the ward, that his real estate,
or some part thereof should be sold, the Court may grant an
order therefore, specifying therein, the causes or reasons why
the sale is necessary or beneﬁcial, and ma , if the same has
been prayed for in the petition, order suc sale to be made
either at ublic or private sale.
SEC. 5808. Every uardian authorized to sell real es
tate must, before the sa e, 've bond to the ward, with suﬂ"1
cient surety, to be aplprove by the court, or a judge thereof,
with condition to se the same in the manner, and to ac
count for the roceeds of the sale, as provided for in this chapter, and a ter VII of this Title.
SEC. 5809. A 1 the proceedings under petition of guard
ians for sales of property of their wards, giving notice and
the hearing of such petitions, ranting or refusing the order
of sale, directing the sale to e made at ublic or private
sale, reselling the same property, return o sale and applica
tion for conﬁrmation thereof, notice and hearing of such ap
plication, making orders rejectin or conﬁrming sales and
reports of sales, ordering and ma ing conveyances of prop
ert sold, accounting and the settlement of account, must
be ad and made as reguired by the provisions of this Title
concerning estates of ecedents, unless otherwise specially
provided in this chapter.
SEC. 5810. No order of sale granted in pursuance of
this chapter continues in force more than one year after
grantin the same, without a sale being had.
SEC. 81 1. All sales of real estate of wards must be for
cash, or for part cash and part deferred payments, not to
exceed three years, bearing date from date of sale, as, in the
discretion of the Probate Judge, is most beneﬁcial to the
ward. Guardians making sales must demand and receive
from the purchasers bond and mortga e on the real estate
sold, with such additional security as t e Judge deems nec
essary and sufﬁcient to secure the faithful payment of the
deferred ayments and the interest thereon.
SEC. 5812. The Probate Court, on the application of a
guardian or any person interested in the estate of any ward,
after such notice to persons interested therein as the Pro
bate Judge shall direct, ma authorize and require the
ardian to invest the procee s of sales, and any other of
is ward’s money in his hands, in real estate, or in any other
manner most to the interest of all concerned therein; and
the Probate Court may make such other orders and give
such directions as are needful for the management, invest
ment, and disposition of the estate and effects, as circum
stances re uire.
SEC. 58 3. When a person liable to be put under
guardianship, according to the provisions of this chapter,
resides without this Territory, and has estate‘ therein, any
friend of such person, or any one interested in his estate,
in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the Probate
Court of any count in which there is any estate of such
absent person, for t e appointment of a uardian; and if,
after notice given to all interested, in suc manner as the
Judge orders, and a full hearing and examination, it ap
pears groper, a guardian for such absent person may be ap
pointe .
SEC. 5814. Every guardian, appointed under the pre
ceding section, has the same powers and performs the same
duties, with respect to the estate of the ward found within
this Territory, and with res ect to the person of the ward,
if he shall come to reside t erein, as are rescribed with
respect to any other guardian appointed un er this chapter.
SEC. 5815. Every ardian must give bond to the ward,
in the manner and wit the like conditions as hereinbefore
provided for other guardians, except that the provisions
respecting the inventory, the disposal of the estate and
effects, and the account to be rendered by the guardian,
must be conﬁned to such estate and effects as come to his
hands in this Territory.
S110. 5816. The guardianship which is ﬁrst lawfully
granted, of any person residing without this Territory, ex
tends to all the estate of the ward within the same, and ex
cludes the jurisdiction of the Probate Court of every other
county.
SEC. 5817. When the guardian and ward are both non_
residents, and the ward is entitled to property in this Terri
tor? which may be removed to a State, another Territory,
or oreign country without conﬂict with any restriction or
limitation thereupon, or impairing the right of the ward
thereto, such property may be removed to? the Territory,
State or foreign country of the residence of the ward, upon
the application of the guardian to the Probate Court of the
county in which the estate of the ward, or the principal
part t ereof, is situated.
SEC. 5818. The application must be made upon ten
days’ notice to the resident executor, administrator, or
guardian, if there be such, and upon such application, the
non-resident guardian must produce and ﬁle a certiﬁcate un
der the hand of the clerk, and seal of the court from which
his appointment was derived, showing:
1. A transcript of the record of his appointment;
2. That he has entered upon the disc ar e of his duties;
3. That he is entitled by the laws of the tate or Territor
of his appointment to the possession of the estate of the war .
Ufpon such a. plication, unless good cause to the contrary
is s own, the robate Court must make an order, granting
to such guardian leave to take and remove the property
of his ward to the state or place of his residence, which is
authority to him to sue for and receive the same in his own
name, for the use and beneﬁt of his ward.
SEC. 5819. Such order is a discharge of the executor,
administrator, local guardian, or other person in whose pos
session the prop}ert may be at the time the order is made,
on ﬁling with t e robate Court the receipt therefore of the
foreign guardian of such absent ward.
SEC. 5820. Upon complaint made to him by any guard
ian, ward, creditor, or other person interested in the estate}
or having a prospective interest therein as heir or otherwise,
against any one suspected of having concealed, embezzled,
or conveyed away, any of the money, oods, or effects, or an
instrument in writing, belonging to t e ward or his estate,
the Probate Judge may cite such suspected person to appear
before him, and may examine and roceed with him on such
charge in the manner provided in t is Title with respect to
ersons suspected of, and charged with concealing or em
ezzling the effects of a decedent.
SEC. 5821. When a guardian, appointed either by the
testator or the Probate Court, becomes insane or otherwise
incapable of discharging his trust, or unsuitable therefore, or
has wasted or mismanaged the estate, or failed for thirty
days after being required to render an account or make a
return, the Probate Court may, upon such notice to the
guardian as the court may require, remove him and compel
him to surrender the estate of the ward to the person found
to be lawfully entitled thereto. Every guardian may resign
when it appears proper to allow the same; and upon the res
i nation or removal of a guardian, as herein provided, the
robate Court or the Judge thereof may ap oint another in
the place of the guardian who has resigne or has been re
moved.
SEG. 5822. The marriage of a minor ward terminates
the guardianship, and the guardian of an insane or other
person may be discharged by the Probate Court when it ap
pears to him, on the application of the ward, or otherwise,
that the uardianshi is no lon er necessary.
SEC. 5 23. The robate Ju ge may require a new bond
to be given by a guardian whenever he deems it necessary,
and may discharge the existing sureties from further liabil
ity, after due notice given as he may direct, when it shall
agpear that no injury can result therefrom to those interest
e in the estate.
SEC. 5824. Every bond given by a guardian must be
ﬁled and reserved in the oﬁ"1ce of the Clerk of the Probate
Court of t e county; and in case of a breach of a condition
thereof, may be prosecuted for the use and beneﬁt of the
ward or of any person interested in the estate.
SEC. 5825. No action can be maintained against the
sureties on any bond given b a guardian, unless it be com
menced within three ears rom the discharge or removal
of the guardian; buti at the time of such discharge, the
person entitled to bring such action is under any legal dis
ability to sue, the action may be commenced at any time
within three years after such disability is removed.
SEC. 5826. N0 action for the recovery of any estate
sold by a guardian can be maintained by the ward, or by any
person claiming under him, unless it is commenced within
three years next after the termination of the guardianship,
or when a legal disability to sue exists by reason of minori
ty or otherwise, at the time when the cause of action ac
crues, within three years next after the removal thereof.
SEC. 5827. The court, in its discretion, whenever nec
essary, may appoint more than one guardian of any person
subject to ardianship, who must give bond and be gov
erned and iable in all respects as a sole guardian.
SEC. 5828. The power conferred upon the Probate J udge
in relation to guardians and wards, may be exercised
him at chambers, or as the act of the Probate Court, when
holding such court; and any order appointing a guardian
must be entered as, and become a decree of the court. The
provisions of this Title relative to the estates of decedents,
so far as they relate to the ractice in the Probate or Dis
trict Courts, appli to procee ings under this chapter.
SEC. 5829. T e provisions as to qualiﬁcation and justi
ﬁcation of sureties to undertakings, are hereby declared to
apply to guardians appointed b the court, and to the bonds
taken, or to be taken, from suc guardians, and to the sure
ties on such bonds.
y
SECTION 5850. A married woman may become a sole
trader by the judgment of the District Court of the county
in which she has resided for six months next preceding the
ap lication.
EC. 5851. A person intending to make ap lication to
become a sole trader, must publish notice of suc intention
in a newspaper published in the county, or if none, then in
a newspaper pu lished in an adjoining county, for four suc
cessive weeks. The notice must specify the term, and the
day u on which the application will be made, the nature
and p ace of the business proposed to be conducted by her,
and the name of her husband.
SEC. 5852. Ten days prior to the day named in the
i:1oItti}<ie, the applicant must ﬁle a veriﬁed petition, setting
o :
1. That the application is made in good faith, to enable
the applicant to support herself, or herself and others de
pendent upon her, giving their names and relation;
2. The fact of insuﬂicient support from her husband, and
the causes thereof, if known;
3. Any other grounds of application which are good causes
forda divorce, with the reason why a divorce is not sought;
an .
4. The nature of the business_proposed to be conducted,
and the ca ital to be invested therein, if any, and the sources
from whic it is derived.
SEC. 5853. The agplicant may invest in the business
proposed to be, a sum erived from the community property,
or of the separate property of the husband, not exceeding
ﬁve hundred dollars.
Sac. 5854. Any creditor of the husband may oppose the
application, by ﬁling in the court (prior to the day named
in the notice) a written opposition veriﬁed, containin either:
1. A s eciﬁed denial of the truth of any materia allega
tion of t e etition; or setting forth,
2. That t e application is made for the purpose of defraud
ing the opponent; or,
3. That the application is made to prevent, or will pre
vent, him from collecting his debt.
SEC. 5855. On the day named in the notice, or on such
other day to which the hearing may be postponed by the
court, the ap licant must make roof of publication of the
notice herein efore required, and) the issues of fact joined,
if any, must be tried as 1n other cases; if no issues are ]0lI16d,
the court must hear the proofs of the applicant, and ﬁnd
the facts in accordance therewith.
664 l
SEC. 5856. If the facts found sustain the petition, the
court must render judgment, authorizing the applicant to
carry on in her own name and on her own account, the bus
iness speciﬁed in the notice and petition.
SEC. 5857. The sole trader must make, and ﬁle with
the Clerk of the court, an aﬂidavit, in the followin form:
“I, A. B., do, in the presence of Almighty God, so emnly
swear that this application was made in ood faith, for the
purpose of enabling me to support myself and an depend
ent, such as husband, parent, sister, child, or the ike, nam
ing them, if any), and not with any view to defraud, delay
or hinder any creditor, or creditors of my husband; and
that, of the monies so to be used by me in business, not
more than ﬁve hundred dollars have come, either directly or
indirectly, from my husband. So help me God.”
A certiﬁed copy of the decree, with this oath indorsed
thereon, must be recorded in the oﬂice of the recorder of
the county where the business is to be carried on, in a book
to be ke t for such purpose.
SEC. 858. \/Vhen the judgment is made and entered,
and a copy thereof, with the afﬁdavit rovided for in the
last section duly recorded, the person t erein named is entitled to carry on the business speciﬁed, in her own name,
and the property, revenues, monies, and credits so by her
invested, and the proﬁts thereof, belong exclusively to her,
and are not liable for any debts of her husband; and she
thereafter has all the privileges of and is liable to all legal
processes provided for debtors and creditors, and ma sue
and be sued alone, without being joined with her hus and;
Provided, however, That she shall not be at liberty to
carry on said business in any other county than that
named in the published notice, until she has recorded in
such other county a copy of said judgment and aﬂidavit.
SEC. 5859. A married woman w o is adjudged a sole
trader is responsible and liable for the maintenance of her
minor children.
SEC. 5860. The husband of a sole trader is not liable
for any debts contracted by her in the course of her sole
traders business, unless contracted upon his written con
sen .
SECTION 5875. Every insolvent debtor may, upon com
liance with the provisions of this Title, be discharged
rom his debts and liabilities. _
SEC. 5876. An insolvent debtor, owing debts exceeding
in amount the sum of three hundred dollars, may apﬁly by
petition to the District Court of the county, in which e has
resided for six months next preceding the ﬁling of his peti
tion, to be discharged from his debts and liabilities. In his
petition he must set forth his place of residence, his inability
to ay all his debts in full, his unwillin ess to surrender
all is estate and effects for the beneﬁt 0 his creditors,‘ and
his desire to obtain a. discharge from his debts and liabilities,
and must annex thereto a schedule and inventory, and
valuation, in compliance with the provisions of this Title.
The ﬁlin of such petition is an act of insolvency, and there
upon suc petitioner must be adjudged an insolvent debtor.
SEC. 5877. Said schedule must contain a. full and true
statement of all his debts and liabilities, exhibiting, to the
best of his knowledge and belief, to whom said debts or
liabilities are due, the place of residence of his creditors, and
the sum due to each; the nature of the indebtedness or de
mand, whether founded on written security, obligation, con
tract or otherwise; the true cause and consideration thereof,
and the time and place when and where said indebtedness
accrued, and a. statement of any existing pledge, lien,
mortgage, judgment, or other security for the payment of
the same.
SEC. 5878. Said inventory must contain an accurate
description of all the estate, both real and personal, of the
petitioner, including his homestead, if any, and all property
exempt by law from execution, and where the same IS
situated, and all encumbrances thereon.
SEC. 5879. The petition, schedule, and inventor must
be veriﬁed by the affidavit of the petitioner, annexe there
to, and must be in form substantially as follows:
I, —<-————, do solemnly swear that the schedule
and inventory now delivered by me contain a full, perfect
and true discovery of all the estate, real, ersonal and mixed,
goods and effects, to me in any way elonging; all such
ebts as are to me owing, or to any person or persons in trust
for me, and all securities and contracts, and contracts where
by any money may hereafter become payable, or any bene
ﬁt or advantage accrue to me or to m use, or to any other
person or persons in trust for me ; t at I have no lands,
money, stock or estate, reversion or expectancy, beside that
set forth in m schedule and inventor ;that Ihave in no in
stance create or acknowledged a de t for a greater sum
than I honestly and truly owe; that I have not, directly or
indirectly, sold or otherwise disposed of or concealed, any
part of my property, effects or contracts; that I have not, in
contem lation of insolvency, in any way compounded with
my cre itors whereby to secure the same, or to receive, or to
expect any proﬁt or advantage therefrom, or to defraud or
deceive any creditor to whom I am indebted in any manner.
So help me God.
SEC. 5880. Upon receiving and ﬁling such petition,
schedule and inventory, the court, or the Judge thereof,
must make an order declaring the petitioner insolvent, and
directing the Sheriff of the county to take possession of all
the estate, real and personal, of the debtor, exce t such as
may be by law exempt from execution, and of all is deeds,
vouchers, books of account and papers, and to keep the
same safely until the a pointment of an assi nee. Such
order must further forbi the payment of any ebts and the
delivery of any pro erty belonging to such debtor, to him,
or for his use, and t e transfer of any property by him; and
must further appoint a time and place for a meeting of the
creditors to
signees of t e estate, which must not be less than thirty
days after the making of said order, and shall designate a
newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in which
publication thereof must be made. Upon the granting of
said (:11-der, all proceedings against the said insolvent are
staye .
rove their debts and choose one or more asSEC. 5881. A copy of said order must immediately be
published by the Clerk of said Court, in the newspaper or
newspapers designated therein, as often as the newspaper
is printed before the meeting of creditors, and be served b
the clerk forthwith by United States mail, posta e prepai ,
or ersonally, on all creditors named in the sche ule. The
or er of adjudication must direct the publication thereof in
a newspaper published in the county in which the petition
is ﬁled, if there be one, and if there be none, in a newspaper
published nearest to such county; Provided, That no order
of adjudication must be entered unless there ﬁrst be depos
ited with the clerk in addition to the usual cost of com
mencing said roceedin , a sum of mone sufficient to de
fray the cost o the pub ications ordered y the court, and
ten cents for‘ each copy to be mailed to, or served on, the
creditors, which latter sum is hereby constituted the le al
fee of the clerk for the mailing or service required in t is section.
SEC. 5882. At a meeting of the creditors, in o en court,
those having proven their claims, by ﬁling a veri ed state
ment showing the amount, nature, and security, if any,
must proceed to the election of one assi nee. The assignee
must e a resident of the county wheret e insolvent resides,
or where lie has carried on his business. In electing an
assignee, the opinion of the majority in amount of claims
must prevail. The Clerk of the court must kee a minute
of the deliberations of said creditors, and of the election and
appointment of an assignee. The assi nee must ﬁle, within
ﬁve days, unless the time be exten ed by the court or
Judge, with the clerk, a bond, in an amount to be ﬁxed by
the court, or Judge, of the Territor of Idaho, with two or
more suﬁicient sureties ap roved fy the court, or Judge,
and conditioned for the fait ful per ormance of the duties
devolving upon him. The bond is not void upoh the ﬁrst
recovery, but may be sued upon from time to time by any
creditor aggrieved, in his own name, until the whole penalty
is exhausted. The sureties on such bond may be required
to justify upon the application of any part interested, in
the same manner as ail u on arrest in civi cases.
SEC. 5883. If, on the day appointed for the meeting, the
creditors to not attend, or refuse to elect an assignee, or if
after election, the assiglnee fails to qualify within the proper
time, the court or Ju ge', before whom the said meetin
takes place, may appoint an assignee and ﬁx the amount o
his bond.
SEC. 5884. As soon as the assignee is appointed and
qualiﬁed, the Clerk of the Court must, by an instrument
under his hand and seal of the court, assign and convey to
the assignee all the estate, real and personal, of the debtor,
with all his deeds, books, and papers relating thereto, and
such assignment relates back to the commencement of the
proceedings in insolvency, and by operation of law vests
the title to all such property and estate, both real and per
sonal, in the assignee. Such assignment vests in the
assignee all the estate of the insolvent debtor not exem t by
law from execution, subject to the lawful and bonaﬁde iens
and encumbrances thereon.
SEC. 5885. The assignee has the right to recover all es
tate, debts, and effects of said insolvent. If, at the time of
the commencement of proceedin s in insolvency, an action
is pendin in the name of the de tor, for the recover of a
de t or ot er thing which might or ought to lpass to t e as
sidglirilee b the assignment, the assignee must eallowed and
a itte to prosecute the action in like manner and with
like effect as if it had been originally commenced by him.
In suits prosecuted by the assignee, a certiﬁed copy of the
assignment made to him is conclusive evidence of his au
thority to sue.
SEC. 5886. The assignee must, within one month after
the making of the assignment to him, cause the same to be
recorded in every county within this Territory, where any
‘lands owned by the debtor are situated, and the record of
such assignment, or a duly certiﬁed copy thereof, is conclu
sive evidence thereof in all courts.
SEC. 5887. Any assignee may at any time, by writin
ﬁled in court, resi his a pointment, having ﬁrst settle
his accounts, and elivere up all the estate to such success
or as the court or Judge may ap oint; Provided, That if in
the discretion of the court or udge the circumstances of
the case require it, upon good cause being shown, the court
or Jud e may at any time before such settlement of account
and de ivery of the estate is completed, revoke the appoint
ment of such assignee, and appoint another in his stead.
The liability of the outgoing assignee, or of the sureties on
his bond is not in any manner discharged, released or af
fected b such apgointment of another in his stead.
SEC. 888. e assignee has power:
1. To sue in his own name, and recover all the estate,
debts, and things in action, belongin or due to such debtor,
and no set-oﬂ’ or counterclaim must e allowed in any such
suit for any debt, unless it was owing to such creditor by
such debtor at the time of the adjudication of his insolv
ency
2. To take into his possession all the estate of such debtor,
except property exem t by law from execution, whether de
livered to him or a terwards discovered, and all books,
vouchers, evidences of indebtedness, and securities belong
ing to the same;
3. From time to time to sell at ublic auction all the es
tate, real and personal, vested in im as such assignee, as
ordered by the court;
4. On such sales to execute the necessary conveyances and
bills of sale;
5. To redeem all valid mortgages and conditional con
tracts, and all valid pledges of personal property, and to sat
isfy any jud ments which may be an encumbrance on any
property sol by him, or to sell such property subject to suc
mortgage, contracts, pledges, or judgments;
6. o settle all matters and accounts between such debtor
and his debtors, subject to the approval of the court;
7. Under the order of the court appointing him, to com
pound with any person indebted to such debtor, and there
upon to discharge all demands against such person ;
8. To have and recover from any person receivin a con
veyance, gift, transfer, payment or assignment, ma efraud
ulentl or contrary to any provision of this Title, the prop
erty t ereby transferred or assigned, or in case a redellver
of the property cannot be had, to recover the value thereo ,
with dama es for the detention.
SEC. 58 9. The insolvent must, either before or on the
day ap ointed for the meeting of creditors, deliver to the
court a 1 the commercial or account books he may have kept,
which books must be deposited in the Clerk’s oﬁice of said
court.
Said insolvent must also deliver to the court, at the same
time, all vouchers, notes, bonds, bills, securities, or other
evidences of debt, in any manner relating to or having
any bearing upon or connection with the property surren
dered by said debtor, and all such papers or securities must
be deposited in the Clerk’s office of said court, and the clerk
must deliver them, together with the books of the insolvent,
to the assi ee who may be a pointed. .
SEC. 58 O. If any person, efore the assignment is made,
having notice of the commencement of" proceedings in insol
vency, embezzles or disposes of any of the monies, goods,
chattels, or effects of the insolvent, he is chargeable there
with, and liable to an action by the assignee for double the
value of the plro erty so embezzled or disposed of, to be re
covered for t e eneﬁt of the estate.
Sno. 5891. The same penalties, forfeitures, and proceed
in by citation, examination, and commitment apply on
be alf of an assignee against persons suspected of having
concealed, embezzled, conveyed away, or disposed of any
property of the debtor, or of having possession or knowledge
of any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other writ
ings which relate to any interest of the debtor in any real
or personal estate, as provided in the case of the estates of
deceased ersons.
SEC. 5 92. The assignee must, as speedily as plossible,
convert the estate, real and personal, into money. e must
keep a regular account of all monies received by him as
assignee, to which every creditor, or other person interested
therein may, at all reasonable times, have access. No pri
vate sale of any property of the estate of an insolvent debtor
is valid unless made under the order of the court upon a pe
tition in writing, which must set forth the facts showing the
sale to be necessar . If it appears that a private sale is for
the best interests 0 the estate, the court or Judge may order
it to be made.
SEC. 5893. When it appears to the satisfaction of the
court or Judge that the estate of the debtor, or any part
thereof, is of a perishable nature, or is liable to deteriorate
in value, or is disproportionately expensive to keep, the
court or Judge may order the same to be sold in such man
ner as may be deemed most expedient, under the direction
of the sheriff or assignee, as the case may be, who must
hold the funds received in place of the property sold until
the further order of the court.
SEC. 5894. Outstanding debts, or other roperty due or
belonging to the estate, which cannot be co lected and re
ceive by the assignee without unreasonable or inconvenient
delay or expense, ma be sold and assigned in like manner
as the remainder of t e estate.
SEC. 5895. Assignees must be allowed all necessary ex
penses in the care, management, and settlement of the es
tate, aiid are collectively entitled to charge and receive for
their services, commissions u on all sums of mone coming
to their hands and accounte for by them, as fo ows: For
the ﬁrst thousand dollars, at the rate of ten per cent; for all
above that sum and not exceedin ten thousand dollars, at
the rate of ﬁve per cent; and for a l above that sum, at the
rate of four er cent.
SEC. 589 . At the expiration of three months from the
appointment of the assignee in any case, or as much earlier
as the Judge may direct, the assi nee must exhibit to the
Jud e and to the creditors, and ﬁ e, just and true accounts
of a his recei ts and payments, veriﬁed by his oath, and a
statement of t e pro erty outstanding, specifying the cause
of its outstanding; a so what debts or claims are yet undeter
mined, and statin what sum remains in his possession, and
thereupon a divi end must be made unless for cause the
court or Judge otherwise order. Thereafter, further ac
counts, statements, and dividends must be made in like
manner as often as occasion requires.
SEC. 5897. The court or Judge must at any time, upon
the motion of any two or more creditors, re uire the assignee
to ﬁle his account, and if he has funds su ject to distribu
tion, he must be required to distribute them without delay.
SEC. 5898. All creditors whose-debts are duly roved
and allowed are entitled to share in the property an estate
pro rata, without priority or preference whatever, other
than as provided in this Title; Provided, That any debt
proved by any person liable as bail, surety, guarantor, or
otherwise, for the debtor, must not be paid to the person so
proving the same until satisfactory evidenoe is produced of
the payment of such debt by such person so liable; and the
share to which such debt would be entitled may be paid into
court, or otherwise held for the beneﬁt of the party entitled
thereto, as the court ma direct.
SEC. 5899. No divi end already declared, must be dis
tributed by reason of debts being subsequently proved, but
the creditors provin such debts, are entitled to a dividend
equal to those alrea y received b the other creditors, be
fore any further dividend is ma e to the latter; provided,
the failure to prove such claim has not resulted from the
creditor’s own ne lect.
SEC. 5900. S ould the assignee refuse or neglect to
render his accounts, or to pay over a dividend when he has,
in the opinion of the court or Judge, suﬂicient funds for
that purpose, the court or Judge must immediately dis
char e such assignee from his trust, and appoint another in
his p ace. The assignee so discharged must forthwith de
liver over to the assignee appointed, all the funds, property,
books, vouchers, or securities belonging to the inso vent,
without charging or retaining any commission or compen
sation for his personal services.
SEC. 5901. Preparatory to the ﬁnal account and divi
dend, the assignee must submit his account to the court,
and ﬁle the same, and must at the time of ﬁling, accom any
the same with an afﬁdavit, that notice by mail has een
given to all creditors who have proved their claims~ that he
will apply for a settlement of his account, and for a dis
charge from all liability as assignee at a time speciﬁed in
such notice, which time must be not less than ten or more
than twenty days from such ﬁling. At the hearing, the
court must audit the account, an any person interested
may ap ear and ﬁle exceptions in writing, and contest the
same. he court thereupon must settle the account and
order a dividend of any portion of the estate remaining un
distributed, and discharge the assignee, subject to compli
ance with the order of the court, from all liability as assignee
to any creditor of the insolvent.
SEC. 5902. Two or more ersons who are artners in
. . . . . .
business may be adjudged inso vent, either on t e petition
of such partners, or an one of them, in which case an or
der must be issued in t e manner provided by this Title,
ulpon which all the joint stock and pro erty of the partner
s ip, and also all the separate estate o each of the partners
must be taken, excepting such parts thereof as may be ex
empt by law, and al the creditors of the company, and the
separate creditors of each partner, mag prove their respect
ive debts; and the assignee must be c osen by the creditors
of the co-partnership, and must keep separate accounts of
the joint stock or property of the co-partnership, and of the
separate estate of each member thereof; and after deduct
ing out of the whole amount received by such assignee the
whole amount of the ex enses and disbursements, the net
proceeds of the joint stoc must be a propriated to pa the
creditors of the co-partnership, and t e net proceeds o the
separate estate of each partner must be appropriated to pay
his separate creditors; and if there is any balance of the
separate estate of any partner after the ayment of his sep
arate debts, such balance must be adde to the joint stock
for the payment of the joint creditors, and if there is any
balance of the joint stock after the payment of the joint
debts, such balance must be divided and a propriated to
and among the separate estate of the severa partners ac
cording to their respective rights and interest therein, and
as it would have been if the partnership had been dissolved
without insolvency; and the sum so appropriated to the sep
arate estate of each partner must be applied to the payment
of his separate debts, and the certiﬁcate of discharge must
be gpanted or refused to each partner as the same would or
oug t to be if the proceedings ad been by him alone under
this Title; and in all other respects the proceedings as to
artners must be conducted in the like manner as if they
ad been commenced and prosecuted by or against one per
son alone.
If such co-partners reside in different counties, that court
in which the etition is ﬁrst ﬁled may retain exclusive juris
diction over t e case. If the petition be ﬁled by less than
all the partners of a co-partnershi , those partners who do
not join in the petition must be or ered to show cause why
they should not be adjudged to be insolvent.
SEC. 5903. The provisions of this Title apply to corpor
ations, and upon petition of any ofﬁcer of any corporation
duly authorized by the vote of the board of directors or trus
tees, at a meeting s ecially called for that purpose, or by the
assent in writin o a majority of the directors or trustees,
as the case may e, the like proceedin s shall be had and
taken as are provided in the ease o individual debtors.
All the provisions of this Title which appl to the debtor, or
set forth his duties, examination and lia i ities, or prescribe
penalties, or relate to fraudulent conveyances, payments
and assignments, apply to each and every ofﬁcer of any
corporation in relation to the same matters concerning the
corporation. Whenever any corporation is declared insol
vent, all its property and assets must be distributed to the
creditors; but no discharge can be granted to any corpor
ation.
SEC. 5904. All debts due and payable from the debtor
at the time of the adjudication of insolvency, and all debts
then existing but not payable until a future time, a rebate
of interest being made, when no interest is payable by the
terms of the contract, may be proved against the estate of
the debtor.
SEC. 5905. All demands against the debtor for or on
account of any goods or chattels wrongfully taken, con
verted, or withheld by him may be proved and allowed as
‘debts, to the amount of the value of the property so with
held, from the time of the conversion.
SEC. 5906. If the debtor is bound as indorser, surety,
bail or guarantor, upon any bill, bond, note, or other s e
cialty or contract or for any debt of another person, and is
liabi ity has not become absolute until the adjudication of
insolvenc , the creditor may prove the same after such
liability ecomes ﬁxed, and before the ﬁnal dividend is
declared. .
SEC. 5907. In all cases of contingent debts, and con
tingent liabilities contracted by the debtor and not herein
otherwise rovided for, the creditor may make claim therefore
and have is claim allowed, with the right to share in the
dividends if the contingency happens before the order for
the ﬁnal dividend, or he may, at any time, apply to the
court or Judge to have the present value of the debtor
liability ascertained and liquidated, which must be done in
such manner as the court or Judge may order, and must be
allowed to rove for the amount so ascertained.
SEC. 59 8. Any person liable as bail, surety, or aran
tor, or otherwise, for the debtor who has paid the ebt, or
any part thereof, in discharge of the whole, is entitled to
rove such debt, or to stand in the place of the creditor, if
e has proved the same, although such payments are made
after the proceedin in insolvency were commenced; and
any person so liab e for the debtor, and who has not paid
the whole of said debt, but is still liable for the same, or an
sart thereof, may, if the creditor fails or omits to prove suc
ebt, prove the same in the name of the creditor. .
SEC. 5909. Where the debtor is liable to pay rent, or
other debt falling due at ﬁxed and stated eriods, the creditor
may prove, for a portionate part thereo up to the time of
the insolvency, as if the same became due rom day to day,
and not at such ﬁxed and stated periods.
Smc, 5910. In all cases of mutual debts and mutual
credits between the arties, the account between them must
be stated, and one ebt set off against the other, and the
balance only allowed and paid. But no set-oﬂ.’ or counter
claim must be allowed of a claim in its nature not provable
against the estate; or in favor of any debtor to the in
solvent of a claim purchased by or transferred to him after
the ﬁling of the etition, for the purpose of making such
set-off or counterc aim. _
SEC. 5911. When a creditor has a mortgage or pledge
of real or personal property of the debtor, or a lien thereon,
for securing the lpayment of a debt owing to him from the
debtor, he must e admitted as a creditor only for the bal
ance of the debt, after deducting the value of such rop
erty, to be ascertained by agreement between him an the
assignee, or b a sale thereof, to be made in such manner as
the court or udge may direct ; or the creditor may release
or convey his claim to the assi ee, upon such pro erty, and
be admitted to prove his who e debt. If the va ue of the
property exceeds the sum for which it is so held as security,
the assignee may release to the creditor the debtor’s right of
redemption thereon on receiving such excess; or he may sell
the property, subject to the claim of the creditor thereon, and
in either case the assignee and creditor respectively must
execute all deeds and writings necessary or proper to con
summate the transaction. If the property is not sold or re
leased, and delivered up, the creditor must not be allowed to
prove any art of his debt.
SEC. 59 2. No creditor proving his debt or claim must
be allowed to maintain any suit at law or in equit therefore
a ainst the debtor, but is deemed to have waive all right
o action and suit against him, and all proceedings already
commenced, are deemed to be discharged and surrendered
thereby; Provided, That no valid lien existing in good faith
thereunder is thereb affected; and, Further promded, That
a creditor proving is debt or claim is not held to have
waived his right of action or suit against the debtor where
a discharge is refused, or the proceedings are determined
without a dischar e.
SEC. 5913. T e court or Judge may, upon the applica
tion of the assignee, or of any cre itor of the debtor or with
out any application before or after adjudication in insolv
ency, examine upon oath the debtor in relation to his prop
erty and his estate, and any person tendering or making
proof of claims, may subpoena witnesses to give evidence
relating to such matters. All examinations of witnesses
must be had and depositions must be taken in accordance
with and in the same manner as is provided by the Code of
Civil Procedure.
SEC. 5914. At an time after the expiration of three
months from the adju ication of insolvency, the debtor may
apply to the court for a discharge from his debts, and the
court must thereupon order notice to be given to all credit
ors who have proved their debts, to appear on a day app‘oint
ed for that purpose and show cause w y a discharge s ould
not be granted to the debtor; said notice must be given by
mail, and by publication at least once a Week, for four weeks,
in a newspaper published in the county, or if there be none,
in a newspa er ublished nearest such county; Prov1.'ded,
That if no de ts have been proven, such notice is not re
quired.
SEC. 59 1 5. No discharge must be granted, or if granted
is valid, if the debtor has sworn false y in his aﬂidavit an
nexed to his petition, schedule, or inventory, or upon any
examination 111 the course of the proceedings in insolvency,
in relation to any material fact concerning is estate, or his
debts, or to any other material fact; or i he has concealed
any part of his estate or effects, or any books or writings
relating thereto; or if he has been guilty of fraud or willful
neglect in the care, custody, or delivery to the assignee of
the property belonging to him at the time of the presentation
of his petition and inventory, excepting such propert as he
is permitted to retain under the provisions 0 this itle, or
if he has caused or permitted any loss or destruction thereof;
or if, within one month before the commencement of such
proceedings, he has rocured his lands, goods, money, or
chattels to be attache , or seized, on execution; or if he has
destroyed, mutilated, altered, or falsiﬁed any of his books,
documents, pa ers, writings, or securities, or has made or
been privy to t e making of any false or fraudulent entry
in any book of account or other document with intent to
defraud his creditors; or if he has made any fraudulent gift,
transfer, conveyance, or assignment of any part of his prop
erty, or has admitted a false or ﬁctitious debt against his
estate, or if, having knowledge that any person has proven
such false or ﬁctitious debt, he has not disclosed the same
to his assignee within one month after such knowledge; or
if, being a merchant or tradesman, he has not, subsequently
to the passage of this Title, ke t proper books of account;
or if he or any other person on is account, or in his behalf,
has inﬂuenced the action of any creditor at any sta e of the
proceedings, by any pecuniary consideration or ob igation;
or if he has, in contemplation of becoming insolvent, made
an pledge, transfer, assignment, or conveyance of any part
of is pro erty, directly or indirectly‘, absolutely or condi
tionally, or the pu ose of preventing the property from
coming into the han s of the assignee, or of being distrib
uted under this title in satisfaction of his debts; or if he has
been convicted of any misdemeanor under this Title, or has
been guilty of fraud contrary to the true intent of this Title,
or has received the beneﬁts of this or any other act of insol
vency or bankruptcy within three years next preceding his
application for discharge, and before any discharge is
granted, the debtor must take and subscribe an oath to the
effect, that he has not done, suffered, or been privy to any
act, matter or thingi speciﬁed in this Title, as ground for
withdrawing such ischarge or as invalidating such dis
charge if granﬁd.
SEC. 5916. Any creditor opposing the discharge of a
debtor, must ﬁle s eciﬁcations, in writing, of the grounds of
his opposition, an after the debtor has ﬁled and served his
answer thereto, which pleadings must be veriﬁed, the court
must try the issue or issues raised, with or without a jury,
according to the practice provided by law in civil cases.
SEC. 5917. I it appears to the court that the debtor has
in all things conformed to his duty under this Title, and
that he is entitled, under the provisions thereof, to receivea
discharge, the court must grant him a discharge from all
his debts, except as hereinafter provided, and must give
him a certiﬁcate thereof, under the seal of the court, insub
stance, as follows: '
In the District Court of the Judicial District of Idaho
Territory, in and for County. Whereas, has
been duly adjudged an insolvent under the insolvent laws
of this Territory, and appears to have conformed to all the
requirements of law in that behalf, it is thereforee ordered
by the court that said be forever discharged from all
debts and claims, which by said insolvent laws, are made
provable against his estate, and which existed on the——day
of , on which the petition for adjudication was ﬁled by
him, excepting such debts, if any, as are, by said insolvent
675
laws, excepted from the operation of a discharge in in
solvency.
Given under m hand, and the seal of the court, this —
day of , A. 18-. Attest, ———-, Clerk.
(Seal.) , Judge.
SEC. 5918. No debt created by fraud or embezzle
ment of the debtor, or by his defalcations as a public oiﬁcer,
or while acting in a judiciary character, and no indebted
ness or liability for funds, deposits, or goods received as a
banker, broker, commission merchant or factor, can be dis
char ed under this Title, but the debt may be proved and
the ividend thereon is a payment on account of said debt;
and no discharge grante under this Title releases, dis
charges or affects any person liable for the same debt for or
with the debtor, either as partner, joint contractor, indorser,
surety or otherwise.
SEC. 5919. A discharge duly granted under this Title,
with the exce tions aforesaid, releases the debtor from all
claims, debts, iabilities and demands set forth in his sched
ule, or which were or might have been groved against his
estate in insolvency, and may be pleade by a simple aver
ment that on the day of its date such discharge was granted
to him, setting forth the same in full, and the same is a
com lete bar to all suits brought on any such debts, claims,
liabi ities or demands, and the certiﬁcate is prima facie evi
dence in favor of such fact, and of the regularity of such
discharge; Provided, however, That an creditor of said
debtor whose debt was proved, or provab e, a ainst the es
tate in insolvency, who sees ﬁt to contest t e validity of
such discharge on the ground that it was frudulently ob
tained, and who has discovered the facts constituting the
fraud subsequent to the discharge, may, at any time within
two years after the date thereof, app y to the court which
granted it, to set aside and annul the same; or if the same is
pleaded, the effect thereof may be avoided cpllaterally upon
ang such grounds.
EC. 5920. The refusal of a discharge to the debtor does
not affect the administration and distribution of his estate
under the rovisions of this Title.
SEC. 59 1. If any debtor dies after the order of adjudi
cation, the proceedings may be continued and concluded in
gikedmanner and with like validity and effect as if he had
ive .
Sac. 5922. Pending proceedin s by any person, co-part
nership or corporation, no statute o limitations runs against
a claim which in its nature is provable against the estate of
the debtor.
SEC. 5923. Any creditor at any stage in the proceedings,
may be represented by his attorney or duly authorized
a ent. '
gSEC. 5924. It is the duty of the court or Judge having
jurisdiction of the proceedings, to exem t and set apart for
the use and beneﬁt of said insolvent, suc real and personal
property as is by law exempt from execution.
SEC. 5925. The ﬁling of the petition upon which an or
der of adjudication in insolvency may be made, shall be
deemed to be the commencement of proceedings in insolv
ency under this Title. '
SEC. 5926. Words used in this Title in the singular, in
clude the plural, and in the plural, the singular, and the
word “debtor” includes partnerships and co orations.
SEC. 5927. A receiver may be ap ointed y the court or
Judge in which an insolvent procee ing is pending before
the election of an assignee: _
1. Upon the application of creditors, where it is shown
that the property, or any portion thereof, is in danger of "be
ing lost, removed or materially injured; '
2. In all other cases where receivers are appointed by the
usage of Courts of Equity. And thereupon the appoint
ment, oath, undertakin and powers of such receiver are
in all respectsregulated y the general laws applicable to
receivers.
SEC. 5928. All sections of the Code of Civil Procedure
relating to contempts are hereby made applicable to all pro
ceedings under this Title. An appeal is allowed to the
Supreme Court from any order adjudging any person guilty
of contempt of court.
SEC. 5929. When an attachment has been made and is
not dissolved before the commencement of proceedings in
insolvency, or is dissolved by an undertakin given by the
defendant, if the claim upon which the attac ment suit was
commenced is proved a ainst the estate of the debtor, the
plaintifff may prove the e al costs and disbursements of the
suit, and oft e kee ing of t e roperty, and the amount there
of is a preferred debt. In a 1 contested matters in insolv
ency the court may, in its discretion, award costs to either
party, to be paid by the other, or to either or both parties,
to be paid out of the estate, as justice and equity may re
uire. In awarding costs the court may issue execution
t erefor.
SEC. 5930. The court or Judge may, upon the applica
tion of the debtor, dismiss the petition and discontinue the
proceedings at any time before the appointment of assignee.
After the appointment of assignee no dismissal must be
made without the consent of all parties interested in or af
fected thereby.
Sac. 5931. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme
Court in the following cases: ,
llzt Allowing or rejecting a creditor’s claim, in whole or in
Pa ;
2. Overruling a motion for a new trial;
3. Settling an account of an assignee;
4. Against or in favor of setting apart homestead or other
property claimed as exempt from execution;
5. Granting or refusing a discharge to the debtor. The
notice, undertaking, and procedure on appeal must conform
to the general laws of this Territory, regulating appeals in
civil cases, except that when the assignee has given an offi
cial undertaking and appeals from a judgment or order in
insolvency his ofﬁcial undertaking stands in the place of an
undertaking on appeal, and the sureties therein are liable
on such un ertaking. '
SEC. 5932. No assignment of any insolvent debtor,
otherwise than as provided in this Title, is legal or binding
on creditors.
SECTION 5950. Courts take judicial notice of the follow
ing facts:
1. The true signiﬁcation of all English words and phrases,
and of legal expressions;
Whatever is established by law;
3. Public and private oﬂicial acts of the legislative, ex
ecutive and judicial departments of this Territory and of
the United States;
4. The seals of all the courts of this Territory and of the
United States;
5. The accession to oiﬁce and the ofﬁcial signatures and
seals of oﬁice of the principal ofﬁcers of government in the
legislative, executive and judicial departments of this Ter
ritory, and of the United States;
6. The existence, title, national ﬂag, and seal of every
state or sovereign recognized by the executive power of the
United States;
7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime juris
diction, and of notaries public;
8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the
geo aphical divisions and political history of the world. In
all t ese cases the court ma resort for its aid to appropri
ate books or documents of re erence. '
SEC. 5951. All questions of law arising upon the trial,
including the admissibility of testimony, the facts pre
liminary to such admission, and the construction of statutes
and other writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be
decided by the court when submitted and before the trial
proceeds, and all discussions of law are to be addressed to
the court. Whenever the knowledge of the court is by this chapter made evidence of a, fact, the court is to declare such
knowledge to the jury, who are bound to accept it.
CHAPTER II.
Wrrnnssns.
Sltrrrox _ Sscrion
5956. All persons capable of perception 5958. Persons in certain relations tcpart
and communication may be wit- les prohibited.
nesses. 5959. Judge or juror may be witness.
5957. Persons who cannot testify. 5960. When an interpreter to be sworn.
SECTION 5956. All persons, without exception, otherwise
than is speciﬁed in the next two sections, who, having or
ans of sense, can perceive, and, perceiving, can make known
t eir perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Therefore,
neither parties nor other persons who have an interest in
the event of an action or proceeding are excluded; nor those
who have been convicted of crime; nor ersons on account
of their opinions on matters of religious elief; although in
every case the credibility of the witness may be drawn in
question, by the manner in which he testiﬁes, by the char
acter of his testimony, or by evidence affecting his char
acter for truth, honesty, or integrity, or his motives, or b
contradictory evidence; and the jury are the exclusive ju ges
of his credibility.
SEC.’ 5957. The following persons cannot be witnesses:
1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination;
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which
they are examined, or of relating them truly;
3. Parties or assignors of arties to an action or proceed
ing, or persons in whose be alf an action or proceeding is
.prosecuted, against an executor or an administrator, upon
a claim or demand a ainst the estate of a deceased person,
as to an matter of act occurring before the death of such
decease person.
SEC. 5958. There are particular relations in which it is
the policy of the law to encourage conﬁdence and to preserve
it inviolate; thereforee, a person cannot be examined as a
witness in the following cases:
1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his wife,
without her consent, nor a wife for or against her husband,
without his consent; nor can either, durin the marriage
or afterwards, be without the consent of tﬁe other, exam
ined as to any communication made by one to the other dur
ing the marriage; but this exception does not apply to a civil
action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a crim
inal action or proceeding for a crime committed by violence
-of one against the person of the other;
2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his client,
be examined as to any communication made by the client
to him, or his advice given thereon in the course of profes
sional em loyment;
3 . A c ergyman or priest cannot, without the consent of
the erson making the confession, be examined as to any
con ession made to him in his rofessional character in the
y" the church to which he
course of discipline enjoined
belongs;
4. Aphysician or surgeon cannot, without the consent
of his patient, be examined in a civil action as to any infor
mation acquired in attending the patient which was neces
sary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient;
5. A public oﬁicer cannot be examined as to communica
tions made to him in oﬂicial conﬁdence, when the public in
terests would suffer b the disclosure.
SEC. 5959. The ud e himself, or any juror, may be
called as a witness by eit er party; but in such case it is in
the discretion of the court to order the trial to be post oned
or suspended, and to take place before another Ju ge or
jury.
SEC. 5960. VVhen a witness does not understand and
speak the English language, an interpreter must be sworn
to interpret for him. Any erson, a resident of the proper
county, may be summoned y any court or Judge to appear
before such court or Judge to act as interpreter in any action
or roceeding. The summons must be served and returned
in ike manner as a subpoena. Any person so summoned
who fails to attend at the time and place named in the sum
mons, is guilty of a contempt.
CHAPTER III.
PUBLIC VVRITINGS.
SECHON
5965. Every citizen entitled to inspect and
596-6 co y public writings.
BEGIION
5975. Record of a foreign country, how
authenticated.
Pub ic oﬂicers bound to give copies. 5976. Oral evidence of a foreign record.
5967. Public and private statutes. 5977. Manner of proving other oﬂlcial
5968. Four kinds of public writings. documents.
5969. Books containing laws presumed to 5978. Public record of private writing
' be correct. evidence
5970. Public seal authenticates a law or 5979. Entries in oﬂicial books primary
document. evidence.
5971. Other evidence of laws of other 5980. Justice's judgmentin other States,
States and Territories. how proved.
5972. Recitals in statutes, how far evi- 5981- Same.
deuce. 59c2. Contents oi other oﬂicial certiﬁcates.
5973. Judicial record deﬁned. 5983. Certiﬁcates of purchase primary
5974. Record how authenticated as evi- evidence oi ownership.
dance. 5984. Entries made by officers or Boards
primary evidence.
SECTION 5965. Every citizen has a right to inspect and
take a copy of any public writing of this Territory, except
as otherwise expressly provided by statute. "
SEC. 5966. Ever public ofﬁcer havin the custody ofa
public writing, whic a citizen has a rig t to inspect, is
ound to give him, on demand, a certiﬁed copy of it, on
payment of the legal fees therefore, and such copy is admiss
ible as evidence in like cases and with like effect as the
original writing.
SEC. 5967. -Statutes are public or private. A private
statute is one which concerns only certain designated indi
viduals, and affects only their private rights. All other
statutes are public, in w ich are included statutes creating
or affectin cor orations.
SEC. 59 8. ublic writings are divided into four classes:
1. Laws 5 _
2. Judicial records;
3. Other oiﬁcial documents;
_ 4. Public records kept‘ in this Territory, of private writ
in s.
EC. 5969. Books printed or published under the au
thority of a State, Territory, or foreign country, and ur
portin to contain the statutes, code, or other written aw
of suc State, Territory, or country, or roved to be com
monly admitted in the tribunals of such tate, Territory, or
country as evidence of the written law thereof, are admiss
ible in this Territory as evidence of such law.
SEC. 5970. A copy of the written law, or other public
writing of any State, Territory, or country, attested bv the
certiﬁcate of the oﬂicer having charge of the original, un
der the public seal of the State, Territory, or country, is ad
missible as evidence of such law or writing.
SEC. 597 1. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled there
in, is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law of a State,
other Territory, or foreign country, as are also printed and
ublished books of reports of decisions of the courts of such
tate, Territory, or country, commonly admitted in such
courts.
SEC. 5972. The recitals in a public statute are conclu
sive evidence of the facts recited for the purpose of carrying
it into eiiect, but no further. The recitals in a private
statute are conclusive evidence between parties who claim
under its provisions, but no further.
SEC. 5973. A judicial record is the record or ofﬁcial
entry of the proceedings in a Court of Justice, or of the
ofﬁciial act of a judicial ofﬁcer, in an action or special pro
cee ing.
SEC. 5974. A judicial record of this Territory, or of the
United States, may be proved by the production of the
original or by a copy thereof, certiﬁed by the clerk or other
person having the egal custod thereof. That of aState
' be prove by the attestation of the
clerk and the seal of t e court annexed, if there be a clerk
and seal, together with a certiﬁcate of the Chief Judge or
presidin magistrate, that the attestation is in due form.
or other Territory may
SEC. 975. A judicial record of a foreign country may
be proved by the attestation of the clerk, with the seal of
the court annexed, if there be a clerk or seal, or of the
legal keeper of the record, with the seal of his office an
nexed, if there be a seal, together with a certiﬁcate of the
Chief Judge, or presiding ma 'strate, that the person
making the attestation is the cler of the court or the legal
keeper of the record, and, in either case, that the signature
of such erson is genuine, and that the attestation is in due
form. he signature of the Chief Judge, or presiding
magistrate, must be authenticated by the certiﬁcate of the
Minister or Embassador, or a Consul, Vice-Consul, or Con
sular Agent of the United States in such foreign country.
SEC. 976. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
count? is also admissible in evidence, upon proof:
1. hat the copy offered has been compared by the wit
ness with the original and is an exact transcript of the
whole of it;
2. That such original was in the custody of the Clerk of
the Court, or other egal keeper of the same ; and,
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is proved
to be the seal of the court where the record remains, if it be
the record of a court, or if there be no such seal, or if it be not
a record of a court, by the signature of the legal keeper of
the original.
f lSli:c. 5977. Other ofﬁcial documents may be proved as
o ows:
1. Acts of the Executive of this Territory, by the records;
and of the United States, by the records of the Departments
of the United States, certiﬁed by the heads of those depart
ments respectively. They may also be proved by public
documents, printed by the order of the Legislature or Con
gress, or either house thereof;
2. The proceedin s of the Legislature of this Territory,
or of Congress, by the journals of those bodies respectively,
or either house thereof, or by published statutes or resolu
tlO51S, or by copies certiﬁed y the clerk, or printed by their
or er;
3. The acts of the Executive, or the proceedings of the
Legislature of a State or other Territory in the same inan
ner;
4. The acts of the Executive, or the proceedings of the
Legislature of a foreign country, by journals published by
their authority, or commonly received in that country as
such, or by a copy certiﬁed under the seal of the country or
sovereign, or by a recognition thereof, is some public act of
the Executive of the United States;
5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this Territo or of
a Board or de artment thereof, by a copy, certiﬁed y the
legal keeper t ereof, or by a printed book, published by the
authority of such corporation;
6. Documents of any other class in this Territory, by the
original, or by a copy, certiﬁed by the legal keeper thereof;
7. Documents of any other class in a State, or other
Territory, by the original, or by a copy, certiﬁed by the
legal keeper thereof, together with the certiﬁcate of the
Secretary of State, Judge of the Supreme, District, Superior,
or County Court, or Mayor of a city of such State or Terri
tory, that the copy is duly certiﬁed by the ofﬁcer having
the le al custody of the original;
8. ocuments of any other class in a foreign country, by
the original, or by a copy, certiﬁed by the legal keeper
thereof, with a certiﬁcate under seal, of the country or
soverei , that the document is a valid and subsistin docu
ment o such country, and that the co y is duly certi ed by
the oiﬁcer having the legal custody o the ori inal;
9. Documents in the departments of the nited States
Government, by the certiﬁcate of the legal custodian thereof.
SEC. 5978. A public record of a private writing may
])50g'6(%l})y1th810lI:g‘lI13.1 l‘f8€£I‘d, or ‘Hy a copy thereof, cer
1 6 y 6 8 at 88 GPO 6I‘6COI' .
SEC. 5979. gEntrieIs in public or other official books or
records, made in the performance of his duty by a public
oﬂicer of this Territor , or by another erson in the perform
ance of a dut s ecial)l7 en'oined by Yaw, are prima facie
evidence of t e acts state therein.
SEC. 5980. A transcript from the record or docket of a
Justice of the Peace of a State or other Territory, of a
'udgment rendered by him, of the proceedings in the action
efore the judgment, of the execution and return, if any,
subscribed by the Justice and veriﬁed in the manner pre
scribed in the next section, is admissible evidence of the
facts stated therein.
SEC. 5981. There must be attached to the transcript a
certiﬁcate of the Justice that the transcript is in all respects
correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the action, and
also a further certiﬁcate of the clerk or prothonotary of the
county in which the Justice resided at the time of render
ing the judgment, under the seal of the county, or the seal
of the Court of Common Pleas, or County Court, or court of
general jurisdiction thereof, certifying that the person sub
scribing the transcript was, at the date of the judgment, a
Justice of the Peace in the county, and that the signature is
genuine. Such jud ment, firoceedings, and jurisdiction
may also be roved y the ustice himself, on the produc
tion of his ocket, or by a copy of the judgment, and his
oral examination as a yvitness.
SEC. 5982. Whenever a copy of a writing is certiﬁed
for the pur ose of evidence, the certiﬁcate must state in
substance, t at the copy is a correct copy of the original, or
of a speciﬁed part thereof, as the case may be. The certiﬁ
cate must be under the official seal of the certifying oﬁicer,
if there be an , or if he be a Clerk of a Court having a seal,
under the se of such court.
SEC. 5983. A certiﬁcate of purchase, or of location, of
any lands in this Territory, issued or made in pursuance of
any law of the United States, is rimary evidence that the
ho der or assignee of such certi cate is the owner of the
land described therein; but this evidence may be overcome
by proof that, at the time of the location, or time of ﬁling a
pre-emption claim on which the certiﬁcate ma have been
issued, the land was in the adverse possession o the adverse
party, or those under whom he claims, or that the adverse
party is holding the land for mining purposes.
SEC. 5984. An entry made by an oﬂicer, or board of
oﬂicers, or under the direction and in the presence of either,
in the course of oﬂicial duty, is prima facie evidence of the
facts stated in such entry.
CHAPTER IV.
PRIVATE YVRITINGS.
Bi-zcriorr SECTION
5989. Manner of making seal. 5995. When evidence of execution not
5990. Books, maps, etc., how for evidence. necessary.
5991 . When in possession oi adverse pa.r- 5996. Entries of decedeuts evidence in
ty. notice to be given. s eciﬁed cases.
5992. Writings called for and inspected 5997. Pr vats writings acknowledged and
ms be withheld. certiﬁed.
5993. Writ ng, how may be proved. 5998. Instrument acknowledged.
5994. Other witnesses may also testify. 5999. Contents of writing, how proved.
SECTION 5989. A public seal in this Territory is a stamp
or im ression made by a public ofﬁcer with an instrument
provi ed by law to attest the execution of an ofﬁcial or
public document, upon the paper or upon any substance at
tached to the aper, which is capable of receiving a visible
impression. private seal may be made in the same-man
ner by any instrument, or it may be made by the scroll of a
pen, or by writing the word “seal” against the signature of
the writer. A scroll or other si made in a State or other
Territory or forei n country, an there recognized as a seal,
must be so regar ed in this Territory.
SEC. 5990. Historical works, books of science or art,
and published maps or charts, when made by persons in
different between the parties are pri-ma facie evidence of
facts of general notoriety and interest.
SEC. 5991. If the writing be in the custody of the ad
verse party, he must ﬁrst have reasonable notice to produce
it. If he then fail to do so, the contents of the writing may
be proved as in case of its loss. But the notice to produce
it is not necessary where the writing is itself a notice, or
where it has been wrongfully obtained or withheld by the
adverse party.
SEC. 5992. Though awritin called for by one party is
produced by the other, and is t ereupon ins ected by the
party calling for it, he is not obliged to pr uce it as evi
ence in the case.
SEC. 5993. Any writin may be proved either:
1 By any one who saw t e writing executed; or,
2. By evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting of
the maker; or, _
3. By a subscribing witness.
Sac. 5994. If the subscribing witness denies or does not
recollect the execution of the writing, its execution may still
be roved by other evidence.
EC. 5995. Where, however, evidence is given that the
party against whom the writing is offered, has at any time
admitted its execution, no other evidence of the execution
need be 'ven, when the instrument is one produced from
the custo y of the adverse party, and has been acted upon
by him as enuine.
SEC. 59 6. The entries and other writings of a dece
dent, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a
position to know the facts stated therein, may be read as
prime facile evidence of the facts stated therein, in the fol
owingNcases:
1. hen the entry was made against the interest of the
person making it;
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and in
the ordinary course of rofessional conduct;
3. When it was ma e in the performance of a duty spe
cially enjoined b law.
SEC. 5997. very private writing, except last wills and
testaments, may be acknowledged or roved and certi
ﬁed in the manner provided for the ac nowledgment or
proof of conveyances of real property, and the certiﬁcate of
such acknowledgment or proof is prima facie evidence of
the execution of the writing, in the same manner as if it
were a conveyance of real property.
SEC. 5998. Every instrument conveying or affecting
real roperty, acknowled ed or roved, and certiﬁed, as pro
vide by law, may toget er wit the certiﬁcate of acknowl
edgment or roof, he read in evidence, in an action or pro
ceeding, wit out further proof, and a certiﬁed copy of the
record, of such conveyance or instrument thus acknowled ed
or proved, ma also e read in evidence, with the like e ect
as the origina. , on roof, by aﬂiidavit, or otherwise, that the
original is not in t e possession or under the control of the
party producing the certiﬁed copy.
SEC. 5999. There can be no evidence of the contents of
a writing, other than the writing itself, except inthe follow
ing cases:
1. When the original has been lost or destroyed; in
whilch case proof of the loss or destruction must ﬁrst be
ma e;
2. When the original is in the possession of the party
against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to pro
duce it after reasonable notice;
3. \Vhen the original is a record or other document in the
custody of a public ofﬁcer;
-L. When the original has been recorded, and a certiﬁed
copy of the record is made evidence by this Code or other
statutes
5. W’hen the ori inal consists of numerous accounts or
other documents, w ich cannot be examined in court with
out great loss of time and the evidence sought from them is
only the general resu tof the whole. In the cases mentioned
in subdivision three and four, a cop of the original, or of
the record, must be produced; in t ose mentioned in subdivisions one and two, either a copy or oral evidence of the
contents.
Sscnoﬂ _
CHAPTER V.
INDISPENSABLE EVIDENCE.
6005. To ‘prove periury and treason.
-6006. W1 to be in writing. valid. _
6007. Transfer of real property to be in 6010. When valid.
writing. 6011. Representation of credit by writing.
-6008. Last section not to extend to cer
tain cases.
SECTION 6005. Perjury and treason must be proved by
testimony of more than one witness. Treason by the testi
mony of two witnesses to the same overt act;and perjuryby
the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and corrob
orating circumstances.
SEC. 6006. A last will and testament, except a nuncu
pative will, is invalid, unless it be in writing and executed
with such formalities as are required by law. When, there
fore, such a will is to be shown, the instrument itself must
be produced, or secondary evidence of its contents be given.
SEC. 6007. No estate or interest in real property, other
than for leases for a term not exceeding one year, nor any
trust or power over or concerning it, or in any manner re
latin thereto, can be created, granted, assigned, surren
dere , or declared, otherwise than by operation of law, or a
conveyance or other instrument in writing, subscribed by
the party creating, grantin , assi ning, surrendering or de
claring the same, or by his awfu agent thereunto author
ized by writing.
SEC. 6008. The preceding section must not be construed
to affect the power of a testator in the disposition of his real
property by a last will and testament, nor to prevent any
trust from arising or being extin ished by implication or
operation of law, nor to abridge t e power of any court to
-compel the speciﬁc performance of an agreement, in case of
part performance thereof.
SEC. 6009. In the following cases the argument is in
valid, unless the same or some note or memorandum thereof
be in writin and subscribed by the party charged, or by his
agent. Evi ence, thereforee, of the agreement cannot be
received without the writing or secondary evidence of" its
contents:
1. An agreement that b its terms is not to be performed
within a year from the ma. ing thereof;
2. A special promise to answer for the debt, default or
miscarriage of another, except in the cases provided for in
the next section;
Sscrxois
6009. Agreement not in writing, when in
3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage,
other than a mutual romise to marry;
4. An agreement or the sale of goods, chattels, or things
in action, at a price not less than two hundred dollars, unless
the buyer accept and receive part of such oods and chat
tels, or the evidences, or some of them, o such things in
action, or pay at the time some part of the purchase money;
but when a sale is made by auction, an entry bfy the auc
tioneer in his sale book, at the time of the sale,'o the kind
of property sold, the terms of sale, the price and the names
of the purchaser and person on whose account the sale is
made, is a sufficient memorandum;
5. An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than
one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest
therein, and such agreement, if made by an agent of the
party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the authority
of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the party sought
to be char ed.
SEC. 60 O. A promise to answer for the obligation of
another, in an of the followin cases, is deemed an original
obligation of t e promisor, an need not be in writing:
1. Where the romise is made by one who has received
property of anot er upon an undertaking to apply it pur
suant to such promise; or by one who has received a dis
charge from an obligation in whole or in part, in considera
tion of such promise
2. Where the creditor parts with value, or enters into an
obligation, in consideration of the obligations in respect to
which the promise is made, in terms or under circumstances
such as to render the party making the romise the rinci
pal debtor, and the person in whose be alf it is ma e, his
surety;
3. Where the promise, being for an antecedent obligation
of another, is made upon the consideration that the party
receiving it cancels the antecedent obligation, acceptin the
new promise as a substitute therefore; or upon the consi era
tion that the party receiving it releases the property of
another from a levy, or his person from imprisonment un
der an execution on a judgment obtained upon the antece
dent obligation; or upon a consideration beneﬁcial to the
promisor, whether moving from either party to the antece
dent obligation, or from another person;
4. Where a factor undertakes, for a commission, to sell
merchandise and guarantee the sale;
5. Where the holder of an instrument for the payment of
money, upon which a third person is or may become liable
to him, transfers it in pa ent of a precedent debt of his
own, or for a new consi eration and in connection with
such transfer, enters" into a promise respecting such instru
ment.
SEC. 601 1. No evidence is admissible to chargea person
upon a representation as to the credit of a third person, un
less such representation, or some memorandum thereof, be
in writing, and either subscribed by or in the handwriting
of the party to be charged.
SECTION 6030. The party producing a. writing as genuine which has been altered, or appears to have been altered
after its execution in a part material to the uestion in dis
pute, must account for the appearance or a teration. He
may show that the alteration was made by another with
out his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the
parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently
made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning or
language of the instrument. If he do that he may give the
writing in evidence, but not otherwise.
CHAPTER II.
l\IEANS or PRODUCTION.
SECTION
6035. Subpoena for witness deﬁned.
6036. Subpa.-na, how issued.
6037. Subput-nu. how served.
6038. How, if witness be concealed.
6039. Wtléenl a. witness is compelled to at
nc .
60-10. Person resent compelled to testify.
6041. Disobe ience, how punished.
Bncrron
6042. Forfeiture thereof.
6043. Warrant may issue to bring wit
ness, when.
60-L4. Contents of warrant.
6045. It witness be a prisoner, how
brought. ii]
6046. On whose motion. ;__‘
6047. How examined. '__
SECTION 6035. The process by which the attendance of
a witness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ or order
directed to a person and requiring his attendance at a particular
time and place to testify as a witness. It may also
require him to bring with him an books, documents, or
other things under his control whic he is bound by law to
produce in evidence.
SEC. 6036. The subpoena is issued as follows:
1. To require attendance before a court, or at the trial of
an issue therein, it is issued in the name of the court before
which the attendance is required, or in which the issue is
pending;
2. To require attendance out of the court, before a Judge,
Justice, or other ofﬁcer authorized to administer oaths or
take testimony in any matter under the laws of this Terri
tor , it is issued by t e Judge, Justice, or any other oﬂicer
be ore whom the attendance is required;
3. To re uire attendance before a Commissioner ap
pointed to ta e testimony by a court of a foreign country,
or of the United States, or of any State or other Territory
in the United States, or of any other district or county
within this Territory, or before an officer or oﬂicers em
powered by the laws of the United tates to take testimony,
it may be issued by any Judge or Justice of the Peace in
places within their respective jurisdiction, with like power
enforce attendance; and, upon certiﬁcate of contumacy to
court, to punish contempt of their process, as such
Judge or Justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the
attendance of the witness before their courts in a matter
pending therein.
SEC. 6037. The service of a subpoena is made by show
ing the original and delivering a copy, or a ticket, contain
ing its substance, to the witness personall , or by leaving a
copy with some suitable person at the p ace of his abo e,
'vin or offering to him at the same time, if demanded by
im, t e fees to which he is entitled for travel to and from
the place designated, and one da ’s attendance there. The
service must be made so as to a low the witness a reason
able time for preparation and travel to the place of attend
ance. Such service may be made by any person.
Siio. 6038. If a witness is concealed in a building or ves
sel, so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any
court or J u gs, or any oﬂicer issuing the subpoena, may,
upon proof y aﬁidavit of the concealment, and of the
materiality of the witness, make an order that the Sheriff of
the county serve the subpoena, and the Sheriff must serve
it accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the
building or vessel where the witness is concealed.
SEC. 6039. A witness is not obliged to attend as a wit
ness before any court, Judge, Justice, or any other oﬂicer,
out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance
be less than thirty miles from his place of residence to the
place of trial.
SEC. 6040. A person present in court, or before a judi
cial oﬂicer, may be required to testif in the same manner
as if he were in attendance upon a su pcena issued by such
court or oﬁicer.
SEC. 6041. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to
be sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an a.ﬂi
davit or deposition when required, may be punished as a
contempt by the court or oﬂicer issuin the subpoena or re
quiringl the witness to be sworn; an if the witness be a
party, is complaint or answer may be stricken out.
SEC. 6042. A witness disobeying asubpoena also forfeits
to the party grieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and
all damages w ich he ma sustain by the failure of the wit
ness to attend, which for eiture and damagesmay be recov
ered in a civil action.
SEC. 6043. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the
court or officer issuing the subpoena, upon proof of the ser
vice thereof, and of t e failure of the witness, may issue a
warrant to the Sheriff of the County to arrest the witness
and bring him before the court or ofﬁcer where his atten
dance was required.
Ssc. 6044. Every warrant of commitment, issued by
a court or officer pursuant to this Chapter, must specify
therein particularly, the cause of the commitment, and if it
be for refusing to answer a uestion, such question must be
stated in the warrant. An ever warrant to arrest or
commit a witness ursuant to this ha ter, must be direct
ed to the Sheriff o the county where t e witness may be,
and must be executed by him in the same manner as pro
cess issued by the District Court.
SEC. 6045. If the witness be a prisoner, conﬁned in a
jail or prison within this Territory, an order for his exam
ination in the prison upon deposition, or for his tem orary
removal and production before a court or oﬂicer fort e pur
pose of being orally examined, may be made as follows:
1. B the court itself in which the action or special
procee ing is pending, unless it be a J ustice’s Court;
2. By a Justice of the Supreme Court, Judge of the
District Court or Probate Judge of the county where the
-action or proceeding is ending, if pending before a Jus
tice’s Court, or before a udge or other person out of court.
SEC. 6046. Such order can only be made on the motion
of a party, upon affidavit showing the nature of the action
or dproceeding, the testimony expected from the witness,
an its materiality.
SEC. 6047. If the witness be imprisoned in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, his production
may be required. In all other cases his examination, when
allowed, must be taken upon deposition.
CHAPTER III.
Mons or TAKING THE TESTIMONY or WITNESSES.
IICTION SECTION
8062. Amdavits and depositions, how tak- 6070. A deposition once taken may be
en. read at any time.
6053. Evidence oi publication, what. 6071. Depositions in this Territory to be
6054. Where ﬁled. used in other States and Territo
6055. Aﬂldavits to be issued in this '1‘er- rles. ritory. 6072, How to procure witness upon com
6056. Ii made in another State or Territory mission.
oi the United States. 6073. Bow, ii no commission.
6057. Ii made in s. foreign country, before 6074. Deposition, how taken.
whom taken. 6075. Witness not under examination
6058. Certiﬁcate oi the clerk. may be excluded.
6059. Testimony oi a witness out oi the 6076. Direct and cross-examination de
Territory. ﬁned.
6060. In the Territory, when taken. 6077. Leading questions deﬁned.
6061. Deposition to be used on motion. 6078. When witness may refresh memory
6062. Testimony oi witness out oi Terri- from notes.
tory. 6079. Cross-examination, as to what.
6063. Propeiliinterrogatories may be pre- 6080. Party producing not allowed to lead
pare . w ness.
6064. Authorities and duties oi Commis- 6081. Witness, how examined.
sioner. 6082. How impeached.
6065. Trial, when pos ned. 6083. Same.
6066. Deposition,byw cm used. 6084. Evidence oi good character, when
6067. Depositions may be taken before a allowed.
Judge, etc. 6085. Writing shown to witness may be
6069. Manner oi taking depositions. inspected by adverse party.
6069. When depositions excluded.
SECTION 6052. An aﬂidavit may be used to verify a
pleading or a paper in a special roceeding, to prove the
service of a summons, notice or ot er paper in an action or
special proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy, the ex
amination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a
motion, and in any other case expressly permitted by some
other provision of this Code.
SEC. 6053. Evidence of the publication of a document
or notice required by law, or by an order of the ‘court or
Jud e, to be published in a newspaper, may be given by the
aiﬁ avit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman or
principal clerk, annexed to a copyo t e document or notice,
specifying the times when, and the paper in which the publi
cation was made.
SEC. 6054. If such aﬂidavit be made in an action or
special proceeding pending in a court, it may be ﬁled with
t e court or a clerk thereof. If not so made, it may be ﬁled
with the Recorder of the county where the newspaper is
printed. In either case the original aﬂﬁdavit, or a copy
thereof, certiﬁed by the Judge of the-court or oﬂicer havin
it in custody, is prima fame evidence of the facts stateg
therein.
SEC. 6055. An afﬁdavit to be used before any court,
Judge or oﬂicer of this Territory, ma be taken before any
Judge or Clerk of any Court, or any ustice of the Peace, or
Notary Public in this Territory.
SEC. 6056. An aﬂidavit taken in a State or other Terri
tory of the United States, to be used in this Territory, may
be taken before a Commissioner appointed by the Governor
of this Territory to take affidavits and depositions in such
State or Territory,or before any Notary Public in such State
or Territory, or before anyJudge or Clerk of a Court of Rec
ord having a seal.
SEC. 6057. An aﬁidavit taken in a foreign country to be
used in this Territory, may be taken before an embassador,
minister, consul, vice-consul or consular agent of the Unit
ed States, or before any Judge of a Court of Record having
a seal, in such foreign country. - SEC. 6058. When an afﬁdavit is taken before a Judge
or a court in a State or other Territory, or in a foreign coun
try, the enuineness of the si nature of the Judge, the ex
istence o the court, and the act that such Judge is a mem
ber thereof, must be certiﬁed by the Clerk of the Court, un
der the seal thereof.
SEC. 6059. The testimony of a witness out of the Terri
tory may be taken b deposition, in an action, at any time
after the service of t e summons, or the appearance of the
defendant; and in a special proceeding, at any time after a
question of fact has arisen therein.
SEC. 6060. The testimony of any person in this Terri
tory, competent to testify as a witness, may be taken in a
civil action, at any time after the service of summons or the
a pearance of the defendant; and in aspecial proceeding,
a ter a uestion of fact has arisen therein; but such deposi
tion sh l be used only when it shall appear at the time the
same is offered for use:
1. That the witness reside out of the county in which the
action or proceeding is pendin , or is absent therefrom; or,
2. That the witness is unab e to attend court on account
of age, inﬁrmity, im risonment, or death.
Act Feb. 10, 1887.
no. 6061. Where a party intends to make or oppose a
motion in a court of record, in an action pending or about to
be commenced, and it is necessary for him to have the aﬁ
davit or deposition of a erson not a party to use upon the
motion, the court or a udge authorized to make an order,
in the cause, may, in its or his discretion, make an order,
a pointing areferee to take the depositions of that erson.
The order must be founded u on proof, by affidavit, t at the
applicant intends to make t e motion, or that notice of a
motion has been given, which the applicant intends to op
pose. The aﬂidavit must specify thepnature of the motion.
and must show that the affidavit or deposition is necessar
thereon, and that such erson has refused to make an aﬂ"1da
vit of the facts which tge a plicant verily believes are with
in his knowledge. The or er may be made upon or without
notice. The person to be examined may be subpoenaed, and
compelled to attend, as upon the trial. The deposition
when taken, must be delivered to the attorney for the part
who procured the order, unless the order provides for a di
ferent dis osition thereof.
SEC. 60 2. The deposition of awitness out of this Territo
r may be taken upon commission issued from the court under
t e seal of the court, upon an order of the Judge or court, or
Probate Judge, on the application of either party, upon ﬁve
days’ previous notice to the other. If issued to any place
within the United States, it may be directed to a person
agreed upon by the arties, or if they do not agree, to any
Judge or Justice of t e Peace, or person named as commis
sioner by the court or Judge issuing it. If issued to any
country out of the United States, it may be directed to a
Minister, Embassador, Consul, Vice-Consul, or Consular
Agent of the United States in such country,or to any person
agreed u on by the parties.
SEC. 6 63. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross,
as the respective parties ma prepare to be settled, if the
parties disagree as to their orm, by the Judge or officer
granting the order for the commission, at a day ﬁxed in the
order, may be annexed to the commission; or, when the par
ties agree to that mode, the examination may be without
written interrogatories.
SEC. 6064. The commission must authorize the commis
sioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his
deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or, when the ex
amination is to be without interro atories, in respect to the
question in dispute, and to certify t ede osition to the court.
in asealed envelope, directed to the c erk or other person
desi nated or a reed upon, and forwarded to him by mail
or ot er usual c iannel of conveyance.
SEC. 6065. A trial or other proceeding must not be post
poned by reason of a commission not returned, except upon
evidence, satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the
witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been
used to obtain it. '
SEC. 6066. The deposition mentioned in this chapter
may be used by either party on the trial or other proceedin ,
against any ot
er party giving or receiving the notice, su ject
to all just exce tions.
SEC. 6067. Eit er party may have the de osition taken
of a witness in this Territory, in either of t e cases men
tioned in section 6060 before a Jud e or oﬂicer authorized to
administer oaths, on serving upon t e adverse party revious
notice of the time and place of examination, toget er with
a copy of an afﬁdavit, showing that the case is within that section. Such notice must be at least ﬁve days, adding also
one day for every twenty-ﬁve miles of the distance of the
place of examination from the residence of the person to
whom the notice is given, unless for a cause shown, a Judge,
by order, prescribes a shorter time. When a shorter time
is prescribed, a copy of the order must be served with the
‘notice.
SEC. 6068. Either party may attend the examination
and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be pro er.
The deposition, when com leted, must be carefully rea to
the witness and corrected y him in any particular, if de
sired; it must then be subscribed b __the witness, certiﬁed by
the Judge or oﬁicer takin the eposition, inclosed in an
envelope or wra per, seale , and directed to the Clerk of the
Court 111 which t e' action is pending, or to such person as
the parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered
by t e Judge or oﬂicer to the Clerk or such person, or tran
smitted through the mail or by some safe private opportunity;
and thereupon such deposition may be used by either party
upon the trial or other proceeding against any party givin
or receiving the notice, subject to al legal exceptions; buti
the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the
form of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless
the same was stated at the time of the examination. If the
deposition be taken under subdivisions 2, 3 and 4, of Section
6060, proof must be made at the trial that the witness con
tinues absent or inﬁrm, or is dead. The deposition thus
taken ma be also read 1n case of the death of the witness.
SEC. 6 69. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposi
tion, it may be excluded from the case upon proof, that suf
ﬁcient notice was not given to the party agalnst whom it is
offered to enable him to attend the taking thereof, or that
the takin was not in all respects fair.
SEC. 6 '70. When a deposition has been once taken, it
may be read by either party in any stage of the same action
or proceeding, or in any other action between the same
arties, u on the same subject, and is then deemed the evi
ence of t e party reading it.
SEC. 6071. Any party to an action or special proceeding
in a court, or before a Judge of a State or other Territory,
may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in this Ter
ritory to be used in such action or proceeding, in the cases
mentioned in the next two sections.
SEC. 6072. If a commission to take such testimon
been issued from the court or Judge before whom suc ac
tion or proceeding is pending, on producin the commission
to a District or Probate Judge, with an aﬁ"1 avit satisfactory
to him of the materiality of the testimony, he may issue a
subpoena to the witness, requiringhim to appear and testify
before the commissioner named in the commission, at a
speciﬁed time and place.
SEC. 6C'73. If a commission has not been issued, and
it appears to a District or Probate Judge, or Justice of the
Peace, by aﬂidavit satisfactory to him:
1. That the testimony of the witness is material to either
Party;
2. That a commission to take the testimony of such wit
ness has not been issued;
3. That according to the law of the State or Territory
where the action or special proceeding is pending, the de 0
sition of a witness taken under such circumstances. and e
fore such Jud e or Justice, will be received in the action or
proceeding;— e must issue his subpoena, requiring the wit
has
niass to appear and testify before him at a speciﬁed time and
p ace.
SE0. 6074. Upon the appearance of the witness, the
Judge or Justice must cause his testimony to be taken in
writing, and must certify and transmit t e same to the
court or Judge before whom the action or roceeding is
pending, in such manner as the law of that tate or Terri
to re uires. _
Sic. 075. If either party requires it, the Judge may
exclude from the court room any witness of the adverse
part , not at the time under examination, so that he may
not ear the testimony of other witnesses.
SEc. _607 The examination of a witness by the party
produ_cing him is denominated the direct examination; the
examination of the same witness, by the adverse party, the
cross-examination. The direct examination must be com
plited befoge this cross-examination begins, unless the court
ot erwise irec.
SEC. 6077. _A uestion which suggests to the witness
the answer-_ which t e examining parties desires is denomin
ated a leading or suggestive question. On adirect examin
ation, leadin uestions are not allowed, except in the sound
discretion o t e court, under special circumstances, mak
ing it agpear that th_e interests o justice require it.
EC. _ 078. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory
respecting a fact, by anythin written by himself, or under
his direction, at the time w en the fact occurred, or im
mediatel -thereafter, or at an other time when the fact
was fres in his memory, and e knew that the same was
correctly stated in the writing. But in such case the writ
ing must be produced, and may be seen by the adverse
party, who may, if he choose, cross-examine the witness
upon it, and ma read it to the jury So also a witness may
testify from suc a writing, though he retain no recollection
of the pakrticular facts, but such evidence must be received
wit cau ion.
SEC. 6079. The opposite party may cross-examine the
witness as to any facts material to the issues in the action,
and in so doin may put leading questions.
SEC. 6080. he part producing a witness, is not allowed
to impeach his credit y evidence of bad character, but
he ma contradict him by other evidence, and may also
show t at he has made at other times, statements inconsis
tent with his presenttestimony. _
SEC. 6081. A witness once examined cannot be re-ex
amined as to the same matter without leave of the court,
but he may be re-examined as to any new matter u on
which he has been examined by the adverse party. End
after the examinations on both sides are once concluded, the
witness cannot be recalled without leave of the court.
Leazye is granted or withheld, in the exercise of a sound dis
cre ion.
Sac. 6082. A witness ma
against whom he was called, y contradictory evidence, or
by evidence that his eneral reputation for truth, honesty,
or integrity is bad, ut not by evidence of particular
wrongful acts, except that it may be shown by the examin
be impeached by the party
ation of the witness, or the record of the judgment, that
he had been convicted of a felony.
SEC. 6083. A witness may also be impeached by evi
dence, that he has made, at other times, statements incon
sistent with his present testimony; but before this can be
done, the statements must be related to him, with the cir
cumstances of times, places, and persons present, and he
must be asked whether he made such statements, and if so,
allowed to explain them. If the statements be in writing,
they must be shown to the witness before any question 1S
put to him concerning them.
SE0. 6084. Evidence of the good character of a party
is not admissible in a civil action, nor of a witness in any
action, until the character of such arty or witness has been
im cached, or unless the issue invo ves his character.
EC. 6085. \Vhenever a writing is shown to a witness,
it may be inspected by the opposite party, and if proved by
the witness, must be read to the jury before his testimony
is closed, or it cannot be read except on recalling the witness.
SECTION 6090. A witness, served with a subpoena, must
attend at the time appointed, with any papers under his con
trol, required by the sub oena, and answer all pertinent and
legal uestions, and, uii ess sooner discharged, must remain
until t e testimony is closed.
SEC. 6091. A witness must answer uestions legal and
pertinent to the matter in issue, thoug his answer may
establish a claim a ainst himself; but he need not give an
answer which will ave a tendency to subject him to un
ishment for a felony; nor need -he ive an answer w ich
will have a direct tendency to degra e his character, unless
it be the ver fact in issue, or to a fact from which the fact
in issue wou d be presumed. But a witness must answer as
to the fact of his revious conviction for felony.
SEC. 6092. very person who has been, in good faith,
served with a subpoena to attend as awitness before a court,
Judge, Commissioner, referee, or other person, in a case
where the disobedience of the witness may be punished as a
contempt, is exonerated from arrest in a civil action, while
going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining
there and returning therefrom.
SEC. 6093. The arrest of a witness, contrary to the pre
ceding section, is void, and, when willfully made, is a con
tempt of the court; and the person making it is res onsible
to the witness arrested for double -the amount of t e dam
ages which may be assessed against him, and is also liable
to an action at the suit of the party serving the witness with
the subpoena, for the damages sustained by him in conse
quence of the arrest.
SEC. 6094. An ofﬁcer is not liable to the party for mak
ing the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating t e exoner
ation, but is liable for any subsequent detention of the arty,
if such party claim the exemption, and make an a davit
statin :
1. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as
a witness before a court, oﬁicer, or other person, specifying
the same, the lace of attendance, and the action or pro
ceedin in whiclli the subpoena was issued; and, '
2. hat he has not thus been served by his own procure
ment, with the intention of avoiding an arrest;
That he is at the time going to the lace of attendance,
or returning therefrom, or remaining tlli)ere in obedience to
the subpoena. The affidavit may be taken by the ofﬁcer,
and exonerates him from liability for discharging the wit
ness when arrested.
SEC. 6095. The court or oﬂicer issuing the subpoena,
and the court or oﬁicer before whom the attendance is re
quired, ma discharge the witness from an arrest made in
violation o the.prov1sions of this Title. If the court have
adjourned before the arrest, or before application for the
discharge, a Judge of the Court or a Pro ate Judge may
grant the discharge.
SECTION 6110. An oﬁer in writing to pay a particular
sum of money, or to deliver a written instrument or speciﬁc
personal property, is, if not acce ted, equivalent to the act
ual production and tender of t e money, instrument, or
property. _ _
SEC. 61 1 1. Whoever a s money, or delivers an instru
ment or pro erty, is entit e to a receipt therefore from the
person to w om the payment or delivery is made, and may
demand a proper signature to such receipt as a condition of
the payment or delivery.
SECTION
CHAPTER II.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
61 16. Evidence may be pierpetueted.
6117. Manner oi applies on for order.
6118. Notice of time and piece to be giv
en.
Bsariois
8119. Manner oi t8.k1!1°%t|hO deposition.
6120. Papers to be ﬂl .
6121. When the evidence may be used.
6122. Eﬂeot of the deposition.
SECTION 61 16. The testimony of a witness may be tak
en and e etuated as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 1 '7. The ap licant must produce to a District
Judge, or to a Probate udge, a petition veriﬁed by the oath
of the applicant, stating:
1. That the a plicant expectsto be a party to an action in
a court in this erritory, and. in such case, the names of the
persons whom he expects will be adverse parties; or,
2. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect the title to pro erty in which he is interested, or to establish
marriage, escent, heirship, or any other matter which it
may hereafter become material to establish, thou h no suit
may at the time be anticipated, or, if anticipate , he may
not know the parties to such suit; and,
3. The name of the witness to be examined, his place of
residence, and a eneral outline of the facts expected to
be proved. The ud e to whom such petition is presented
must make an order a owing the examination and designat
ing the ofﬁcer before whom the same must be taken, and
prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, if the par
ties expectant are known and reside in this Territory, must
be personally served, and if unknown, such notice must
be served on the Recorder of the county where the
pro erty to be affected by the evidence is situated, or the
u ge making the order resides, as may be directed by
him and by publication thereof in some newspaper, to be
designated by the Judge, for the same period required for
the publication of summons. The Judge must also designate
in his order, the Recorder of the County to whom the depo
sitions must be returned when taken.
SEC. 61 18. The person appointed by the Jud e to take
the depositions is aut orized, if a resident of this erritory,
on receivinga copy of the order of the Judge, and of the
notice prescribed in the last section, with roof of its per
sonal service or publication; or, if a resi ent without the
Territory, on receiving the commission mentioned in the
next section, with proof of like service of publication of the
notice; to take the deposition of the witness named in the
order of the Judge, or in the commission, or, if more than
one witness is thus named, of such of them as ap ear before
him, at the time designated, and the taking 0 the same
may be continued from time to time.
SEC. 61 19. The examination must be by question and
answer, and if the testimony is to be taken in a State or
other Territory, it must be taken upon a commission, to be
issued b the Judge, allowing the examination, under the
seal of t e court of which he is Judge, and upon interroga
tories, to be settled in the same manner as in cases of depo
sitions taken under commission in pending actions, unless
the parties ex ectant, if known, ot erwise agree. If such
parties are un nown, notice of the settlement of the inter
rogatories shall be published in some newspaper for such
time as the Judge may designate. The deposition, when
completed, must be carefully read to and subscribed by the
witness, then certiﬁed by the oﬂicer or erson taking the
same, and shall then be sealed u and elivered or trans
mitted to the Recorder of the ounty designated in the
order of the Judge allowing the examination, who shall ﬁle
the same when received. The Jud e allowing the exam
ination shall ﬁle with the Recorder t e order for the exam
ination, the petition on which the same was granted, with
proof of service of the order and notice.
SEC. 6120. The petition and order, and papers ﬁled by
the Judge, as provided in the last section, ora certiﬁed copy
thereof, are prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein
to show com liance with the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 6121?). If a trial be had .between the parties named
in the petition as parties expectant, or their successors
in interest, or between any parties wherein it may be
material to establish the facts which such depositions prove,
or tend to prove, upon proof of the death, or insanity of the
witness, or that they‘ cannot be found, or are unable, by
reason of age, or ot er inﬁrmity, to give their testimony,
the depositions or copies thereof may be used by either
party, sub'ect to all legal objections; but if the parties
attend at t e examination, no objection to the form of an
interrogatory can be made at the trial, unless the same was
stated at the examination.
SEC. 6122. The deposition so taken and read in evi
dence has the same effect as the oral testimony of the wit
ness, and no other, and every objection to the witness, or to
the revelancy of any question put to him, or of any answer
given by him, ma be made in the same manner as if he
were examined ora ly at the trial.
SECTION 6127. Every court, every Judge, or Clerk of any
Court, every Justice and every Notary Public, the Secreta
ry of the Territory, and every ofﬁcer or person authorized
to take testimon in any action or proceedingﬁ or to decide
upon evidence, as power to administer oat s or affirma
tions.
SE0. 6128. An oath or aﬂirmation in an action or pro
ceeding, ma be administered as follows, the person who
swears or a rms, expressing his assent when addressed, in
the following form:
“You do solemnly swear (or aﬂirm, as the case may be;
that the evidence you shall give in the issue (or matter
pendin between Z-ii and —i—-, shall be the
trutlatde whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help
you o .”
SEC. 6129. Whenever the court before which a person
is offered as a witness is satisﬁed that he has a peculiar
mode of swearin , connected with or in addition to the
usual form of a ministration, which, in his o inion, is
more solemn or obligatory, the court may, in its iscretion,
adopt that-mode. SEC. 6130. When a person is sworn who believes in an
other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn accor ingrto
the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any
suc .
SEC. 6131. Any person who desires it may, at his option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation or
declaration, b assenting when addressed, in the following
form: “You 0 solemnly aﬂirm (or declare), that”, etc., as
above provided.
Snorron
CHAPTER IV.
Fuss or J URORS AND WITNESSES.
6136. Fees of jurors in District Courts.
6137. Clerk to ay juror. how.
6138. Fees of urors in Probate and Jus
tices’ Courts.
Bnonou
6139. Fees of witnesses in District Court.
61.40. Fees of witnesses in Probate and
Justices‘ Courts.
6141 Fees cl interpreters.
SECTION 6136.- The(pa of grand and petit jurors in the
o a
District Court, is three rs per day for each day of act
ual attendance at court, and ﬁfteen cents
er mile for each
mile necessarily traveled in goin to an returning from
court, which must be paid out of t e county treasury.
SEC. 6137. At the end of each term of a District Court
the clerk must make out a certiﬁcate to each juror entitled
thereto, certifying the number of days such juror has at
tended court, and the amount remainin due to him for per
diem and mileage. Each juror must s ate on oath to the
7
!
clerk the number of miles traveled for which he is entitled
to pay; but no juror must receive mileage for going to, or
returning from court more than once during the same term;
and no person summoned as a 'uror and excused at his own
re uest, must receive any per iem or mileage.
gEC. 6138. Jurors in civil cases in the Probate and
Justices’ Courts are entitled to receive two dollars per da
for each day actually enga ed in the trial of a case, whic
must be entered and taxe up as costs against the losing
party.
SEC. 6139. Witnesses in civil actions in the District
Court, or before any referee or commissioner thereof, are entitled to receive three dollars per day for each day’s actual
attendance, and twenty-ﬁve cents per mile one way; to be
taxed as costs a ainst the losing party.
SEC. 6140. itnesses in civil actions in the Probate
and Justices’ Courts are entitled to receive two dollars per
day for each day’s actual attendance, and twenty-ﬁve cents
per mile one way; to be taxed against the losing party.
SEC. 6141. nterpreters are entitled to receive three
dollars per day for each day’s actual attendance upon a
court of Justice under a subpoena, and twent -ﬁve cents er
mile one way for each mile actually travele , to be taxe as
costs in civil actions, and in criminal actions to be paid out
of the County Treasury on the certiﬁcate of the -Clerk,
Judge, or Ma 'strate, but the amount may be included in
the costs taxe against a defendant upon conviction.
Bnonos
6146. Establishment oi.
6147. Expenses.
6148. Terms in organized counties.
CHAPTER V.
DISTRICT COURTS.
Bnonon
6149. One term.
G150. How paid.
SECTION 6146. District Courts are hereby established, to
be held in each of the counties of this Territory which have
been or may hereafter be organized by law, for the purpose
of hearing and determining all matters and causes arising
under the laws of the Territory.
SEC. 6147. There must be aid to each of the Justices
of the Supreme Court, out of t e Territorial Treasury, for
each term of a District Court held by him for the trial and
disposition of causes, and the transaction of business under
the laws of the Territory in other counties than that in
which he resides, his actual e enses, not exceeding one
hundred dollars for traveling an holding each term.
SEC. 6148. In order to avail themselves of this chalpter,
each of said Justices must hold at least two terms o the
District Court each year, in each of the or anized counties
in his district, unless the Board of County ommissioners of
any county or counties certify that in their opinion not
more than one term is necessary, in which case only one
term need be held in such county or counties. There must
be at least one term held each year in each of the organized
counties.
SEC. 6149. The Board of Commissioners of each or
ganized county in this Territory, if in their opinion but one
term of the District Court will be necessary in their county
during the year, must make a certiﬁcate to that effect, and
forthwith transmit the same, by mail or express, to the
Clerk of the Court.
SEC. 6150. Each of said justices may, semi-annually,
on the ﬁrst day of January and Jul of each ear, make
and certif an account a ainst the erritory, s owing the
number 0 such terms of istrict Court that have been held
by him during the six months next preceding the date of
such account, such account to contam a statement of the
amount of his expenses, and transmit the same to the Ter
ritorial Controller, and upon receipt of such account, said
Controller must issue to the justice so certifying a Territor
ial warrant not exceeding one hundred dollars for each
term so certiﬁed to have been held by him. Such warrants
must be drawn u on the general fund of the Territory, and
must be paid in t e same manner as other warrants on that
fund are paid.

