TITLE I.

AN ACT to regulate proceedings in Civil C'a.ses in the Courts of
Justice of the Territory. of Idaho.

CHAPTER I.

03‘ THE FORK OF CIVIL ACTIONS, AND OI‘ THE PART!!! TEBBITO.

Bid. 1. Only one form of action.
2. Parties deslgnnted.
8. Question of hot.
4. Action, in whose name.
5'. Set-nllwhen not pnjndlcod.
6. Action by exoentor.
7. When married woman is party, exception.
2. Inhnt and gnu-dun.
11.  to Child, Own
12. Pumas, who may be joined.
13. Defendant, who my be undo.

8:0. 14. Parties. who to be jolned.
15. Separately liable, may be joined.
16. Death of party, or transfer of interest.
17. Controversy, when court to determine.

Be it enacted by the L‘t’iqdz:19$:ztive.f,%;3l.::)mnbly of the Territory of
_ o as ws:

SECTION 1. There shall be in this territory but one form
of civil action for the enforcement or protection of private
rights, and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which
shall be the same at law and in equity.

SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be
known as the laintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 3. en a question of fact, not ut in issue b the

pleadings, is to be tried by the jury, an or er for the tria‘ may"

e made, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to
be tried; and such order shall be the only authority necessary
for a trial.

SE0.’ 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this
act; but in suits brought by the assignee of an account,
unliquidated demand, or thing in action not arising out of
contracgi, the assignor shall not be a witness on behalf of the

lainti .

P SEC. 5. In the case of an assignment of the thin in action,
the action by the assignee shall be without preju 106 to any
set-off or other defense, existing at the time of, or before notice of the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a
negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange, transferred in
good faith, and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 6. An executor or administrator, trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue
without joining with him the person or persons for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust
within the meanin of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is
made for the benefit of another.

SEO. 7. When a married woman is a party, her husband
shall be joined with her; exce t, that when the action concerns her separate pro erty, s e may sue alone; when the
action is between herse and her husband, she may sue or be
sued alone.

SEC. 8. If a husband and wife are sued together, the wife
may defend for her own right.

SEC. 9. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by

guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the
action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a robate judge.

SEC. 10. The guardian shall be appointed as ollows: First.
When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under that age,
upon the a plication of a relative or friend of the infant.
Second. en the infant is defendant, upon the application
of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within ten days after the service of the summons; if he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon
the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant.

Size. 11. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of
his family, the mother, may maintain an action for the inju
or death of a child; and a guardian for the injury or death
of his Ward.

SEC. 12. All persons havin an interest in the subject of
the action, and obtaining the re ief demanded, may be joined
as laintiffs, except when otherwise provided in this act.

EC. 13. Any person may be made a defendant, who has,
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination
or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 14. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants; but if
s

the consent of any one, who ould have been joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he ma be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of a common or general interest‘, of many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable
to brin them all into court, one or more may sue or defend
for the enefit of all.

SEC. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation
or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.

Sac. 16. An action shall not abate by the death, or other
disability of the party or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case
of the death, or other disability, of a party, the court, on mo:
tion, may allow the action to be continued by or against his
representative or successor in interest. In case of any other
transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name
of the original party, or the court may allow the person to
whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.

SEC. 17'. The court may determine any controversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice
to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when a
complete determination of the controversy cannot be had
without the presence of other parties, the court shall order
them to be brought in. TITLE II.

PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

B80. 18. Where subject matter is situated.
19. Where cause of action arose.
20. Where parties reside.
24. Changing place of trial.

SEO; 18. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in
the county in which the sub'ect of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to t e power of the court to chan e
the place of trial, as provided in this act: First. For t e
recovery of real property, or mining claims, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination, in any form, of such
right or interest, or for injuries to real property. Second. For
the partition of real property. Third. For the foreclosure
of a mortgage of real property.

SEO. 19. Actions for the followmg causes shall be tried in
the county where the cause, or some art thereof, arose, sub'ect to the like power of the court to change the place of trial:

irst. i For the. recove of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that w en it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county

borderin on such lake, river, or other stream, and opposite '

to the p ace where the offense was committed. Second.
Against a public officer, or ex-son especially appointed to execute his duties, for an act one by 111111 in virtue of his office,
or a inst a person who, by his command, or in his aid, does
an in tonchin the duties of such officer.

Sac. . In al other cases, the action shall be tried in the
county in which the parties, or some of them, reside at the
commencement of the action; or, if none of the parties reside

in the territory, the same may be tried in any county which
the plaintifff may designate in his com laint, subject, however,
to the power of the court to change e place of trial, as provided in this act.

SEC. 21. The court may, on motion, change the place of
trial in the followin cases: First. When the county desi nated in the comp aint is not the proper county. Secong.
When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein. Third. When the convenience of witnesses,
and the ends of justice, would be promoted by the chan e.
Fourth. When, from any cause, the judge is disqua ' ed
from acting in the action.

TITLE III.

HANNER OF COHHENCING ACTIONS.

How commenced in certain courts.
Complaint, how indorscd.

Form of summons.

Answer, when to be made.

. Notice to be inserted in summons.

27. Notice in action affecting real property.
28. Summons, by whom served.

How served.

Service by publication.

Proceedings where service is made only on some of several defendants.
Proof of service.

Jurisdiction, when it attaches.

3.3.-‘$333 3~’.!*F.3§

Sec. 22. Civil actions in the district court, and the probate
courts, shall be commenced b the filing of a com laint with
the clerk of the court in whic the action is brou E
issuing of a summons thereon: Provided, That the filing
of the complaint, a defendant in the action may ap ear, answer
or demur, whether the summons has been issue or not, and
such appearance, answer or demurer, shallbe deemed awaiver
of summons.

S30. 23. The clerk shall indorse on the complaint the day,
month and year the same is filed ; and at any time within one

t, and the ‘

year after the filing of the same, the plaintifff may issue, or
cause to be issued, a summons thereon. The summons shall
be issued and si ed by the clerk or attorney of the plaintifff,
and directed to t e defendant, and when issued by the clerk,
to be issued nder the seal of the court.

Sec. 24. he summons shall state the parties to the action,
the court in which it is brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, the cause and general nature of the action, and
require the defendant to ap ear and answer the complaint, with, in the time mentioned in t e next section, after the service of

summons, exclusive of the day of service, or that judgment
by default will be taken against him, according to the pra er
of the complaint, briefly stating the sum of money or ot er
relief demanded in the complaint; and the clerk shall also indorse on the summons the names of the plaintifff's attorneys.

SEC. 25. The time in which the summons shall require the
defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: First.
If the defendant is served within the count in which the action is brought, twenty days. Second. I the defendant is
served out of the county, but in the district in which the action is brought, thirty days. Third. In all other cases, forty
da s.

EC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a
notice, in substance as follows: First. In an action arising on
contract for the recovery onl of money or damages, that the
plaintifff will take judgment or a sum specified therein, if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint. Second. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, the
plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded therein.

SEC. 27. In an action affectin the title to real property,
the plaintifff, at the time of filing t e complaint, or at any time
afterwards, may file with the recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action,
containing the names of the parties, the object of the action,
and a description of the property in that county affected
thereby. From the time of filing, only, shall the pendency
of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby.

SEO. 28. The summons shall be served by the sheriff of
the county where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or
by a person specially appointed by him, or appointed a
judge of the court in which the action is brought. W en
the summons is served b the sheriff or his deputy, it shall be
returned with the certi cate or affidavit of the oflcer, to the
office of the clerk where the complaint is filed. When the
summons is served by any other person, as before provided, it

shall be returned to the office of the clerk, with the affidavit
of such person, of its service. - S30. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof, as follows: First. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managin agent thereof. Second. If against
a minor, under the age 0 fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if there
be none within the territory, then to any person having the
care or control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in
whose service he is employed. Third. If against a person
judicially declaredto be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, to such guardian. Fourth. In all other cases, to
the defendant personal] ; or if he be not found, to some white
person of the family, a ove the a e of fourteen years, at the
dwelling house or usual place of aiode of the defendant, and
explaining to such person the contents of such summons.

S30. 30. When the erson on whom the service is to be
made, resides out of t e territo , or has departed from
the territory, or cannot after due illigence be found ‘within the territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service
of summons, and the fact shall appear, by affidavit, to
the satisfaction of the court, or a judge thereof, or a probate judge, and it shall, in like manner, appear that a cause
of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom

the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or pro er
party to the action, such court or judge may grant an order
that the service be made b publication of the summons.

SEC. 31. The order sha 1 direct the publication to be made
in a newspaper to be designated, as most likely to give notice

7

to the person to be serve and for such len th of time as may
be deemed reasonable, at least once a weei: Provided, That
the publication against a defendant, being or residin either
in the states of California or Oregon, or territories of tab or
Washington, shall not be less than one month; and against a
defendant residin out of this territory, or absent therefrom,
or out of either 0 the states of California or~Oregon, or territories of Utah or Washington, shall not be less than three
months. In case of publication, where the residence of a
non-resident or absent defendant is known, the court or jud e
shall also direct a copy of the summons and com laint to" go
forthwith deposited in the post oilice, directed to t e person to
be served, at his place of residence- Whenpublication is ordered, personal service of a co y of the summons and complaint, out of the territory, sha be equivalent to publication

and deposit in the post office. In either case, the service of
the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of
the time prescribed by the order for publication. In actions
upon contracts for the direct payment of money, the court, in
its discretion, may, instead of ordering publication, or may,
after publication, appoint an attorney to a pear for the nonresident, absent or concealed defendant, an conduct the proceedings on his part. ,

SEO. 32. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not on
all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows: First. If the
action be againstthe defendants jointly indebted upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the
court otherwise direct-; and if he recover judgment, it may be
entered a inst all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far
only as at it may be enforced against the joint property of
all, and the separate property of the defendant served: or
Second. If the action be against defendants severally liable,
he may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as if they were only defendants.

Sac. 83. Proof of the service of the summons shall be as
follows: First. If served b the sheriff or his deputy, the
affidavit or certiicate of suc sheriff or deputy; or, Second.
If by anyother person, his affidavit thereof; or,’ Third. In
case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman,
or principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post offce, if the same
shall have been deposited; or, Fourth. The written admission of the defendant.

SEO. 34.» In case of service otherwise than by publication,
the certificate or affidavit shall state the time and place of the
service.

See. 85. From the time of the service of the summons in

a civil action, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subseciuent proceedings.
A voluntary appearance of a defendant shal be equivalent to
personal service of thesummons upon him.

TITLE IV.
‘ rnmnmas.

he. 36. Pleading: denned.

37. Rules of pleadings by plaintifff and defendant.
39. Complaint, what to contain.

40. Demurrerto.

' 48. Amending.

44. Objections to by answer.

45. Waiver of objections to.

45. Answer whatto contain.

47. Counteroclaima and cross demands.

4!. -Several defenses may be set up.

50. Demnrrer to, sham pleadings.

51. Pleading: to be subscribed and verined.
52. Veriication, when omitted.

53. Genuineness of written instrument admitted.
55. llanner of verifying pleadings.

56. Items of account need not be set forth.

57. Irrelevant matter.

58. Complaint to recover.

59. Judgment or other determination of court.
80. Conditions precedent.

61. Private statutes.

6!. Libel or slander, in action for.

08. '.|‘ruth may be alleged.

64. Several causes of action in one complaint.
C5. Allegations, when taken as true.

66. Material allegations.

67. Answer after demurrer. 68. Amendment of pleadings and time for answering.
59. Plaintiif ignorant of defendant's name.

70. Pleadings, how construed.

71. Error, when to be disregarded.

Sec. 36. The pleadings are the formal allegations by the
parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judgment of the court. '

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
the rules by which the sufiicienc of the pleadings shall be
determined, shall be those prescri in this act.

Sec. 38. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintiff
shall be the com laint, demurrer, or replication to the defendant’s answer, an the only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be a demurrer to the complaint, ora demfurrer to the

replication, or an answer to the complaint. 4' The demurrer or
answer of the defendant, and the demurrer or replication of
the plaintifff, shall be filed with the clerk, and a copy thereof
served on the adverse party, or his attorney. ' ,

Sac. 39. The complaint shall contain: First. The title
of the action, specifying the name of the court and the name
of the county in which the actionis brou ht, and the names
of thetparties to the action, plaintifff and etendant, and shall
be addressed to a court of law or equity, as the case may be.
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise lan uage. Third. A demand
of the relief which the laintifi c aims. If the recovery of
money, or damages, be emanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated.

SEC. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint within
the time required in the summons to answer,-— when it appears
upon the face thereof, either: First. That the court has no
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of
the action; or, Second. That the plaintifff has not the legal

capacity to sue; or, Third. That there is another action pen- ,

ding between the same parties for the same cause ; or, Fourth.
That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or, Fifth. That several causes of action have been
impro erly united; or, Sixth. That the complaint does not
state ts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; or, Seventh. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain; or, Eighth. That the action has not been commenced within the time limited b law.

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall istinctly specify the ground
u on which any of the objections to the complaint are taken.

nless it do so, it may be disregarded. . .

SEC. 42. The defendant may demurto the whole com laint,
or to one or more of several causes of action stated t erein
andanswer the residue, or may demur and answer at the same
time. .

Sac. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of the
amendments shall=be filed, or the court ma , in its discretion,
require the complaint as amended to be led, anda copy of
the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be
affected thereb , or upon his attorney, if hehas appeared by
attorne ; the efendantshall answer in such timeas may be

ordere by the court, and judgment by default maybe entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases.

SEO. 44. When any of the matters enumeratedin section
forty, do not a;p(pear upon the face of the complalnt,the objection may be t en by answer.

Sec. 45. ‘If no such objection be taken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts
suilicient to constitute a cause of action. ' ’

S30. 46. The answer of the defendant shall- contain: First.
If the complaint be verified, a s ecific denial to each allegation
of the complaint controverted y the defendant, or a denial
thereof, according to his ~ information and belief; if the complaint be not verified, then a general denial to each of such
allegations, but a general denial shall only put in issue the
material and express allegations of the complaint. Second.
A statement of any new matter or counterclaim, constituting
a defense, in ordinary and concise languacre. When the answer contains new matter, constituting ' a defense, the plaintiffi
ma , within the same length of time allowed for answering,
an subject to the same rules, reply to such new matter; and
if he fail to do so, such new matter shall be taken astrue, and
deemed proved at the trial. If new matter of set-off and
counterclaim be set up in the answer, the reply may contain
matter of set-off and counterclaim, not embraced in the complaint, All new matter set up in the replication, shall be
deemed denied by the defendant. s

SEC. 47. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section,
shall be one existin in favor of the defendant, and against a
plaintifff, between w om a several jud ent might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of tgen followm causes of
action: First. A cause of action arising out of t e transaction set forth in the complaint or answer, as the foundation of
the plaintifff's claim, or detendant’s defense, connected with
the subject of the action. Second. In an action arising upon
contract, any other cause of action arising also upon contract,
and existing at the commencement of the action.

Sac. 48. When cross demands have. existed between persons,‘ under such circumstances, that if one had brought an
gction against the other, a counterclaim could have been set

p, neit er shall be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the
assignment or death of the other; but the two demands shall
be eemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.

' Sac. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as man

defenses and counterclaims as e ma have. They shall eac

_ be separately stated, and the several efenses shall refer to the

causes of action whichtheyare intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 50. ‘When the answer contains new matter, the plainas may, within the number of days by which the defendant

is, by the summons, required to answer, said days to be computed from the time of the service on the plaintifff, of such
answer, demur to the same for insuiiiciency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and he may, also, within the
same time, demur to one or more defenses, set up in the answer, and the defendant may in like manner demur to the
plaintifff ’s re lication. Sham and irrelevant answers, replications and de enses, and so much of any answer or replication 5

as may beirrelevant, redundant or immaterial, may be stricken
out on motion, and upon such terms as the court in its discretion may im ose.

SEO. 51. very pleading shall be subscribed by the (party
or his attorney, and when the complaint is veritie by
affidavit, the answer and replication shall be verified also, exce t as provided in the next section.

so. 52. The verification of the answer or replication, required in the last section, may be omitted when an admission
of the truth of com laint or answer might subject» the party
to prosecution for fe ony or misdemeanor.

SEC. 53. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument,
or a copy is annexed thereto, the genulneness and due execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the
answer denying the same be verified.

Sac. 54. When the defense to an action is founded upon a
written instrument, and a co y thereof is contained in the
answer, or a copy is annexed ereto, the genuineness and due
execution of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless
the replication denying the same be verified.

SEO. 55. In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the
affidavit of the party shall state the same is true of his own
knowledge, except as to matters which are therein stated on
his information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes them to be true. And where a leadin is verified, it
shall be by the affidavit of the party, un ess he e absent from
the county where the attorney resides, or from some ‘cause
unable to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of
his attorney, or other person verifying the same. When the
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except
the party, he shall set forth‘ in the affidavit the reasons why it
is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made by an officer thereof; or when the
territory, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a (party, the
verification may be made by any person acquainte with the
‘facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the attorney general

or district attorney, in behalf of the territory, the pleadings
need not, in any case, be verified. ‘

SEC. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to ‘set forth
in a pleading the items of an‘ account therein alleged, but he
shall deliver to the adverse party, within five days after a demand thereof, in writin ,a co y of the account, orbe precluded
from giving evidence t ereo . The court, or a judge thereof,
or a probate judge, ma order afurther account, when the one
delivered is too genera , or is defective in any particular.

SEO. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in
a pleading, it may be stricken out by the court, on motion
of any person aggrieved thcreb '. ‘

SEO. 58. In an action for the recovery or real property,

such property shall be described, with its metes and bounds, 1n .

the complaint.
‘S30. 59. In pleadinga judgment or other determination of
a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judg- ‘

ment or determination may be stated to have been duly given
or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring
jurisdiction.

See. 60. In pleadin the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it s all not be necessary to state the facts
showing such performance; but it may be stated generally,
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part;
and if such allegation be controverted, the arty pleading
shall establish on the trial the facts showing suclh performance.

Sac. 61. In pleading a private statute, or a nght derived
therefrom, it shall be suthclent to refer to such statute by its
title and the day of its passage, and the court ‘shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof.

Sac. 62.’ In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the

urpose of showing the application to the laintitf of the demato matter out of which the cause 0 action arose; but
it shall e sntlicient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concernin the laintitf; and if such allegation be controverted, the p ainti shall establish on the trlal
that it was so published or spoken.

Sac. 63. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the
matter charged as defamato and any miti ating circumstances, to reduce the amount 0 damage; an whether he prove
the justification or not, he may give 1n evidence the mitigating
circumstances. ' ‘

Sac. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
in the same complaint, when the arise out of: First. Contracts, express or implied; or, econd. Claims to recover
specified real property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof, 'or for waste committed thereon, and the rents
and profits of the same; or, Third. Claims to recover specific
personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; or, Fourth. Claims against a trustee by virtue
of a contract or b operation of law ;_ or, Fifth. Injuries to
character; or, Sixt .- Injuries to person; or, Seventh. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so united, shall al'l
belong to one only of these classes, and shall affect all the
parties to the action, and not re uire different places of trial,
and shall be separately stated: ovided, however, That an action for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them,
may be united with an action for either an injury to character
or to the person. s

SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint or answer, when it is verified, not specifically controverted by the
answer or replication, shall, for the purpose of the action, be
taken as true. The alle ation of new matter in the replication, shall, on trial, he eemed controverted by the adverse

ar . —
P Stgc. 66. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the claim, or defense, and which could not be stricken
fron1 the pleading without leaving it insufficient

SEC. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of issue on
demurrer, either party may, Within ten days, amend any pleading demurred to, of «course, and without costs, filing the same,
as amended, and serving a co y_ thereof upon the adverse part or his attorney, who shall ave ten days to answer, reply or
(femur thereto ; but a party shall not so amend more than once.
When a demurrer to a complaint or answer is overruled, and
there is no answer or replication filed, the court may, u on
such terms as shall be just,'and u on payment of costs, al ow
an answer or replication to be ii ed. If a demurrer to the
replication be overruled, the facts alleged in the replication
shall still be considered as denied.

Size. 68. Thecourt may, in furtherance of justice, and on
such terms as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceedings, by adding or striking out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the. name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for an answer or demurrer, or demurrer to an answer
filed. The court may likewise, upon affidavit showing. good
cause therefore, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon

such terms as ma be ‘just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in 0 er particulars, and may, upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this act;

and may, u on such terms as ma be just, and upon payment A

of costs, re ieve a party or his egal i representatives from a
'udgment, order or other proceeding taken against him through
is mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, when,
from any cause, the summons and a copy of the complaint in
an action have not been personally served on the defendant,
the court may allow, on such terms as may be just,such defendant, or his legal representatives, at any ‘time within six
months after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to
answer to the merits of the ori inal action. ’ ,

Sac. 69. When the plainti ‘is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be desi nated in any pleading
or proceedin by an name; and, w en h-is true name is
discovered, e ple ing or proceeding may be. amended
accordingly. s . ,

SEC. 70. In the construction of a pleadin for the purpose
of determining its effects, its allegations shal be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

S30. 71 The court shall, in eve stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the lea ings or proceedings which
shall not affect the substantia _ rights of the parties, and no
judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such

error or defect. .

TITLE V.

“CHAPTER II.

01'' THE PROVISIONAL BEHEDIIS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, ARRESP8 AND BAIL.

Sac. 77. Arrest, wh°nmay be made. '

74. Order for, how obtained.
Plaintitl to give undertaking.
When order may be made, form.
0rder,dnty of merit!’ and how executed.
Defendant how dhcharged.
Bail. how given.
. Bnrrender in discharge of.

33:3???

8m. 83. Hay arrest defendant.

84. Judgment against.

85. How exonerated.

86. Proceedings after arrest.

87. Notice of jnnincation of ball.

88. Qualitloatlonn of ball.

89. Ball how to justify.
Allowance of bail.
Deposit in lieu of ball.
Dispoaltion of depolit.
Bail after deposit. Application of deposit after judgment.
Liability of sherim
Judgment against sheriff.
Vacating order of arrest.
Reduction of ball.

£3?-.3.3v.3's'3f~‘3é"-°-.3

SEC. 72. No person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as prescribe by this act.

Sec. 73. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases, arising after the assage of
this act: First. In an action for the recovery 0 money _or
damages on a cause of action arisin upon contract, express
or implied, when the defendant is a out to depart from the
territory, with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is for willful injury to person, to character, or to ro erty,
knowing the pro erty to belong to another. Second). &n
action for a fine r penalty, or on a promise to marry, or for
money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misa plied or
converted to his own use by a public officer, or an o 'cer of a
corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker,‘ agent, or clerk, in
the course of his emplo ment as such; or any other person in
a fiduciary capacity, or r misconduct or neglect in office, or
in a professional employment. Third. In an action to recover
the possession of personal property unjustly detained, when
the ropert , or any part thereof, has been concealed, removed,
or is ose of, so .that it cannot be found or taken by the
sheri . Fourth. When the defendant has been guilty of
fraud in contracting the debt or incurin the obligation for
which the action is brought, or in concea ing or disposin of
the property, for the taking, detention or conversion of W ich
the action is brought. Fifth. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with
intent to defraud his creditors; but no female shall be arrested
in any action, except for an injury to person, character or

ro ert . '
P She. XI4. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be

obtained from a judge’ of the court in which the action is
brought, orfrom a rebate judge. .

SEC. 75. The or er may be made whenever it shall appear
tothe judge, by the affidavit of the laintilf, or some other
person, that a sufficient cause of act on exists, and that the
case is one of those mentioned in section seventy-three. The
affidavit shall be either ositive or upon information and belief; and, when upon in ormation and belief, it shall state the
facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If
an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be filed with the
clerk of the county. , _

S30. 76. Before makin the order, the judge shall require
awritten undertaking on t e part of the plaintifff, with sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover jud ment, the
plaintifff will pay all costs and char es that may e awarded
the defendant, and all damages whic he may sustain by reason of the arrest‘-—not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least five hundred dollars.
Each of the sureties shall annex to the undertaking an affidavit that he is a resident within the territory, and worth double
the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all his
debts and liabilities, exclusive of pro erty exempt from execution. The undertaking shall be file with the ‘clerk of the
court.

Sac. 77. The order may be made to accompan the summons, or any time afterwards before judgment. t shall reuire the sheriff of the county where the defendant may be’

ound, forthwith tn arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order, at a time therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending’. .
Size. 8. Theorder of arrest, with». copy of the aiiidavit
upon which it is made, shall be delivered to the sheriff, who,
upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to him a copy of _
the atiidavit, and, also, if desired, a copy of the order, of
arrest.

Sac. 79. The, sheriff shall execute the order by arrestin
the ilefendant, and keeping him in custody until discharge

aw.
ySEC. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution,
shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail,
or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as rovided in this chapter.

SEC. 1. The defendant may give bail, by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties,
stating their places of residence and occupations, to the eifec-t'

that they are bound in the amount mentioned in the order
of arrest, that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the process of the court, during the pendeney
of the action, and to‘ such as may be issued to enforce the
judgment therein; or that they will pa to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment which may e recovered in the
action.

SEC. 82. At any time before judgment, or within ten days
thereafter, the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration; or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the
county where he was arrested.

SEC. 83. For the purpose of snrrenderingthe defendant,
the bail at any time or p ace before they are finally charged,
may themselves arrest him; or b a written authority, indorsed
on a certified cop of the un ertaking, may empower the
sheriff to do so. pen the arrest of the defendant by the
sheriff or upon his ‘delivery to the sheriff by the bail, or u on
his own surrender, the bail shall be exonerated; rovi ed
such arrest, delivery, or surrender, take place before t e expiration of ten days a&er judgment; but if such arrest, delivery,
or surrender, be not made within ten days after judgment,
the bail shall be finally charged on their undertaking, and be
bound to pay the amount of judgment within ten clays

thereafter.

Sac. 84. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment
within ten days after they are finally charged, an action may
be commenced against such bail for the amount of suc

ori 'nal judgrment. 7
£0. 85. he bail_ shall also be exonerated by the death
of the defendant, or his im risonment in a territorial prison;

or by his legal discharge rom the obligation to render himself amenab e to the process.

Size. 86. .Within the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff shall file the order of arrest in the office of the clerk
of the court in which the action is pendin , with his return

indorsed thereon; together with a co y of t e undertaking of ._

the bail. The original undertaking e shall retain in his possession until filed, as herein provide . The plaintifff, within ten
days thereaft'er, may serve u on the sheriff a notice that he
does not ‘accept the bail, or e shall be deemed to have acce ted them, and the sheriff shallrbe exonerated from liabi ity. If no notice be served within ten days, the original
undertaking shall be filed with the clerk of the court. ‘
SEC. 87- Within five days after the receipt of notice, the
sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintiti, or his attorney,

notice of the justification of the same, or other bail (specifying

the place of residence and occupation of the latter), before a
judge of the court, or probate judge, or county clerk, at a
specified time and place; the time to ‘be not less than five, nor
more than ten da s thereafter, except by consent of parties.
In case other ba' be given, there shall be a new undertaking.
But no attorney or counsellor at law, sheriff, clerk of any
court, or other officer of any court shall be permitted to become bail in any action. ‘ .

Sec. 88. The‘ qualifications of bail shall be as follows:
First. Each of them shall be a resident within the county.
Second. Each shall be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, or the amount to which the order is reduced,
as provided in this chapter, over and above his debts and liabilities, exclusive of pro erty exem t from execution; but
the judge, or county clerk, on justi cation, may allowsmore

than two sureties to justify severally, in "amounts less thanthat expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two rsufhcient bail. 4

SEC. 89. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, or county clerk, at the time and
place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath,
on the part of‘ the plaintifff, touching_his sutliciency, in such

manner as the judge or county clerk, in his discretion, may ,

think roper. The examination shall be reduced to writing,
and su scribed by the bail, if re uired b the laintitf.

SEC. 90. If the judge,,or cler tin-d t e bai suilicient, he
he shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse

his allowance thereon, and cause them to be file and the

sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from liability. _

Size. 91. The defendant may, at the time of ‘his arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount
mentioned. In case the amount of the bail be reduced, as
provided in this act, the defendant may deposit such amount
instead of giving bail. In either case, the sheriff shall give
the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custod .

SEC. 92. The sheriff shall, immediately after the deposit,
pay the same into court, and «take from the clerk receivin the
same two certificates of such payment—the one of whic he
shall deliver or transmit to the plaintifff or his attorney, and
the other to the defendant. For any default in making such

ayment, the same proceedings may be had on the official
end of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in other
cases of delinquency. ' w

Sac. 93. If money be deposited, as provided in the last

two sections, bail may be given, and may justify upon notice,

at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the undertakin and justification with the clerk, the money deposited
shall be refunded by such clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 94. Where money shall have been deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of the recove ' of a judgment in
favor of the plaintifff, the clerk shall, undler the direction of
the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and, after
satisfying the jud ent, shall refund the surplus, if an , to
the defendant. the judgment be in favor of the defenc ant,
the clerk shall, under like direction of the court, refund to
him the Whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.

SEO. 95. If, after, being arrested, the defendant escape or
be rescued, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail; but he
may discharge himself from such liability by the giving and
justification of bail, at any time before judgment.

SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff,
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be
had on his oiiicial bond, for the recovery of the whole or any
defncienc , as in other cases of delinquency.

Sac. 9 . A defendant arrested may, at any time before justification of bail, ap ly to the judge who made the order, or

‘the court in which e action is pending, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other proofs, in
addition to those on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 98. If upon any such application, it shall satisfactorily
ap ear that there was not sufiicient cause for the arrest, the
or er shall be -vacated; or, if it satisfactorily appear that the
bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be reduced.

CHAPTER III.

CLAIIS FOR DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

8:0. 99. When claim may be made.
100. Amdavit to obtain order for delivery.
102. Proceedings on.
103. Bnretiee excepting to.
104. Defendant may require return.

Sac. 105. Jnstidcation of defendant’: securities.

106. Qualification of sureties.
107. Property concealed.
108. Bherilf to keep property. .
109. Proceedings when property claimed bythird party.
110. Order and atlldavit to he died.

e

Sac. 99. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the delivery of
such roperty to him, as provided in this act.

so. 100. Where a delivery is claimed, an aihdavit shall
be made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, show. ing: First.‘ That the plaintifff is the owner of the property

claimed (particularly describing it)‘, or is lawfully entitled to
the possession thereof. Second. hat the ropertiy is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Third. he ale ed cause
of the detention thereof, accordin to his best know edge,.information and belief. Fourth. hat the same has not been
taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute ; or
seized under an exectition, or an attachment agpinst the property of the plaintifff ; or, if so seized, that it is y
empt from such seizure. Fifth. The actual value of the
P"°P°"Y- . . .

SEC. 101. The plaintifff or his attorney may thereupon, by
an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff
of the county where the property claimed may be to take the
same from the defendant.

Sac. 102. Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
a written understanding executed by two or more suiiicient
sureties, ap roved by the sheriff, to the effect that they .are
bound to t e defendant. in double the value of the property,
as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution of the action, for
the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as ma
from any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriii’:
shall forthwith take the property described in the atiidavit,
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on
the defendant a copy of the aiiidavit, notice and undertakin ,
by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be foun ,
or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken;
or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual lace
of abode of either, with some person of suitable a e an diecretion; or if neither have any . known lace o abode, by

putting them in the nearest post office, irected to the defendant. A

statute ex-‘

* SEC. 103. The defendant may, within two days after service
of a copy of the affidavit and undertakin , give notice to the
sheriff that he excepts to the suiiiciency o the sureties. If he
fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection
to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify, on notice, in like manner as upon bail or arrest; and tho
sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived, as. above provided,
or until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties,
he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the next
section.

Sac. 104. At any time before the delivery of the property

tothe plaintifff, the defendant ma , if he do not except to .the .

sureties of the plaintifff, require ‘t e return thereof,,upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking, executed by two _or
more suiiicient sureties, to the effect t at they are bound in

double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of
the plaintifff; for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. If
a returnof property be not so required within five days after
the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be
delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one

hundred and nine.

81:6. 105. The defendant's sureties, ulpon notice to the
plaintifff of not less than two nor more t an five days, shall
justify before a judge or county clerk, in the same manner as
upon bail on arrest; and upon such justification, the sheriff
shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall
be, responsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify,
or untll the 'ustification is completed or expressl waived, and
may retain t e property until that time; but if t ey, or others
in their place, fail ‘to ‘J ustify at the time and place appointed,
he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

Sac. 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be such as are prescribed by this act in respect to
bail upon an order of arrest. '

Sac. 107. If the roperty, or any part thereof, be concealed
in a building or inc osure, the sheriff shall publicly demand
its delivery; if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building
or enclosure to be broken open, and take the propert into his
possession ; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid t e power
of the county. r

Sac. 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property, as
in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place,
and deliver It to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his

lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same. ‘

S130. 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant, or his agent, and such person make
aiiidavit of his title thereto, or right of possession thereof,
stating the unds of such title, or right, and ‘serve the same
upon the s eriif, the sheriff shall not be bound to kee the

rope , or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plainti , on

eman of him or his ent, indemnify the sherizfi against
such claim, by an underta ing, by two suiiicient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are Worth double the
value of the roperty, as specined in the ‘aliidavit of the plaintifff, over and} above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of
property exempt from execution; and no claim to such property, by an other person than the defendant, or his agent,
shall be vali a inst the sheriff, unless so made.

Sac. 110. T e sheriff shall file the notice, undertakin
and aiiidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the clerk o
the court in which the action is pending, within twenty days
after taking the property mentioned therein.

CHAPTER Iv.

INJUNCTIONS.

SIG. 111. Defined.
112. In what cases may be and when granted.
114. After answer. a

115. Undertaking on.
116. Order nioi for injunction.

117. Injunction to suspend business of corporation.
118. llodon to dissolve or modify. '

Sec. 111. An injunction is a writ, or order,\ requiring a
person to refrain from a particular set. The order, or writ,
may be granted by the court in which the action is brou‘ ht,
or by the judge’ thereof, or by a probate judge; and w en
made by a Jud e, may be enforced as the order of the court.

8:0. 112. injunction may be granted in the following
cases: First. When it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,‘ or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the 1 commission or

continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited
period or perpetually. Second.‘ When it shall appear by the
complaint or aiiidavit, that the commission or continuance
of some act during the litigation would roduce great or.irrearable injury to the plaintifff. Third. en it shall appear

uring the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or threatens,
or is about to do, or is procuring, or suffering to be done,
some act in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual.

Sac. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of
issuing the summons upon the’ complaint; and, at any time
afterwards, before judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint,
in the one case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactoril that sumcient grounds exist therefore. No injunction shalfbe granted on the complaint, unless it be verified

«by the oath of the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he,

the person makin the oath, has read the com laint, or heard
the complaint rea and knows the contents t erect‘, and the
same is true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein
stated on information and belief, and that, as to those matters,
he believes it to be true. When granted on the complaint, a
copy of the complaint, and verification attached, shall be
served with the injunction; when granted. upon affidavit, a
copy of the affidavit shall be served with the injunction.

SEC. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order
to show cause; but, in such case, the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the court or judge granting or
refusing the injunction.

SEC. 115. On granting an injunction, the court or judge
shall require, except where the people of the territory are a
party plaintifff, a written undertakin on the part of the laintif, Wlth sufficient sureties, to the e ect that the plainti will
pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding an
amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court finally decide that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto.

Size. 116. If the court or judge deem it roper that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, shall e heard before
granting the injunction, an order may be made requiring
cause to be shown, at a specified time and place, why the
injunction should not be granted; and the defendant may,
in the meantime, be restrained.

SEC. 117. An injunction to su end the general and ordinary business of a corporation, sha not be granted, except by

the court; nor shall it be granted without due notice of the
application therefore to the pro er officers .of the corporation,
except when the people of t 's territory are a party to the
proceedin .

Site. 11 . If an injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant, at any time before the trial, ma apply, upon reasonable notice, to the judge who granted e injunction, or to
the court in which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify
the -same. The application may be made upon the complaint
and the aiiidavit on which the injunction was granted, or upon

aiiidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the ‘

answer. If the application be made upon aiiidavit on the
part of defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may op ose
the same b affidavits or other evidence, in addition to ose
on which e injunction was granted. Snc. 11-9. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily appear that there is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it
shall be dissolved; or if it appear_that the extent of the
injunction is too great, it shall be modiiied.

 

CHAPTER V.

ATTACHMENT.

830. 120. At what time may issue.
121. Amdavit, what to show.
_ 122. Undertaking of Plaintin‘.
123. Writ. requirement of, several may issue.
124. What property may be attached.
125. How writ shall be executed.
126. Property in hands of third party, how attached.
127. Liability of third party.
128. Examination of third party.
129. Return of aherin.
130. Perishable property to be sold.
131. Property claimed by third party.
132. J ndgment, how satisfied, notice of sale.
134. Proceedings when execution returned unsatisfied.
135. Proceedings when defendant recovers judgment.
136. Discharge of attachment, when made.
137. Undertaking of defendant.
138. Plea in abatement.
139. What to prove. I
140. Liability for tuning attachm
141. Return of aherld.

Snc. 120. The plaintifff, at the timeof issuing the summons,
or at any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovere , unless the defendant ‘vs security to pay such judgment, in the following cases: irst. In
an action upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct
payment of money, which contract is made or is payable in
this territory, and is not secured by a mortgage, lein or pledge
upon real or personal property; or if so secured, that such
securi_ has beenrendered nugatory by the act of the defendant. econd. In an action upon a contract, expressor implied, against a defendant not residin in this territory.

Size. 121. The clerk of the court s all issue the writ of attachment upon receivin an anidavit by, or on behalf of the

. laintiff, which shall be led, showing; First. That the deendant is indebted to the plaintifff, s ecifying the amount of
such indebtedness over and above all e alset-offs and counterclaims, upon a contract, express or imp ied, for the direct pa ment of money, and that such contract was made or is playab e
in this territory, and that the payment of the same as not
been secured by any mortgage, lein or ledge upon any real
or personal property; or ' so secured, at such security has

been rendered nugatory by the act of the defendant; or, Sec-.

ond. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff, Specifying the amount of such indebtedness, as near as may e, over
and above all legal set-offs and counterclaims,) and that the
defendant is a non-resident of the territory; and that the sum
for which the attachment is asked, is an actual bonajide, existing debt, due and owing from the defendant to the plaintifff,
and that the attachment is not sought, and the action is not
prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor or creditors of the defendant. - Sac. 122. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a
written undertaking on the art of the plaintifff, in a sum not
less than the amount claimedgn the plaintifff, and not less, in

any case, than two hundred dol are, with sufficient sureties to '

the eff'ect,.that if the defendant recover judgment, or if the
attachment should be dismissed, the plaintifff will pay all costs
that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertakin . ,

Sac. 123. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any
county in which property of such defendant may be, and reguire-him to attach and safely keep all the property of such

efendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or so
much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, the amount of which shall be stated in conformity with
the complaint, unless -the defendant give him security by the
undertaking of at least two sufficient sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs; in which case,
to take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the
same time, to sheriffs of different counties.

.830. 124. The ri hts or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock 0 any co oration or com‘ any, together
with the interests and profits t ereon, and all ebts due such
defendant, and all other property in this territory of such ‘defendant, not exempt from execution, may be attached, and if
judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and
execution. - ' _

Size. 125. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall execute the same without dela ;, and if the undertaking mentioned in section one hundre and twenty-three
be not given, as follows: First. Real property shall be attached by leaving a copy ‘bf the writ with the occupant
thereof; or if there be no occu ant, by posting a copy in a
conspicuous place thereon, and ling a copy, together with a
description of theproperty attached, with the recorder of the
county. Second. Personal property,-capable of manual delive , shall be attached by taking it into custody. Third.
Stoc or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of anycorporation or company, shall be attached by leaving with the president, or-other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier or
managing agent thereof, a copy of .the writ and a notice stating
the stock or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance
of such writ. Fourth» Debts and credits, and other personal

roperty not capable of manual delive , shall be attached‘ by

eaving with the person owing such ldzsbts or having in his
possession or under his control such credits or other personal
property, a copy of the writ anda notice that the debts owin

y im to the defendant; or the credits and other persona

property in his possession or under his ‘control, belonging to A

the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such writ. SEC. 126. Upon receiving information in writing from the
plaintifff or his attorney that any person has in his ssession
or under his control any credits or other persona property
belonging to the defendant, or is owin any debt to the defendant, the sheriff shall serve upon suc person a copy of the
writ and a notice that such credits or other property or debts,
as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such w1it.~

Sac. 127. All persons having in their possession or under
their control any credits or other personal pr erty belonging

to the defendant, or owing any debts to the efendant at the

, may, a

time of service upon them of a co y of the writ and notice, as
rovided in the last two sections, s all be (unless such property
e delivered up or transferred, or such debts be pald to the
sheriil',) liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits,
property or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any
Judgment recovered by him be satisfied. t

See. 128. Any person owing debts to the defendant-, or
having in his possession or under his control any credits or
other personal property belonging to the defendant, may be
required to attend before the court or judge, or a referee appo1nted by the court or jud e, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The de endant may also be required to
attend for the pur ose of giving information respecting his
properg; and may e exammed on oath. The court or jud e

r such examination, order personal property, capab e
of manual delivery, to be delivere to the sheriff, on such
terms as may be just-—having reference to any leins thereon
or claims against the same-—and a memorandum to be 'ven
of all other personal property containing the amount an description thereof.

Site. 129. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the
pro ert attached, and return the same with the writ. To
ena le im to make such return, as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at~the time of service, the party owing
the debt or having the credit to‘ give him a memorandum,
stating the amount and description of each; and if such memorandum is refused, he shall return the fact of refusal with
the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may
be required to pay the costs of any proceedin taken for the
purpose of obtaining information respecting e amount and
description of such ebt or credit. .

SEC. 130. If an of the property attached be perishable,
the sheriff shall se 1 the same, in the manner in which such
property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other properpiy attached by him,‘ shall be retained by him to answer any
ju gment that may be recovered in the action, unless sooner
subjected to execution upon another judgment, recovered previous to the issuin of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached ma be col ected by him if the same can be done without suit. T e sheri1l"s receipt shall be a suiiicient discharge
for the amount aid.

Sec. 181. T e sheriff may deliver any of the property
attached to the defendant or to any other person claimin it,
upon his giving a written undertaking therefore, executeg by
two or more suiiicientsureties, engagin to re-deliver it or pay
the value thereof to the sheriff, to whom execution upon a

* judgment obtained by the plaintifff in that action may be
issued. If an ‘action be brought upon such undertaking
against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defense that
the property for which the undertaking was given did not, at
the execution of the writ of attachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

SEC. 132. If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the
sheriff shall satisfy t e same out of the Iproperty attached by
him which has not been delivered to the defendant, or a
claimant, as herein before provided, or subjected to execution
on another 'udgment recovered previous to issuing the attachment, if it e sufficient for that u se: First. By paying
to the plaintifff the proceeds of al sa es of perishable property
sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or so
much asshall be necessary to satisfy the judgment. Second.
If an balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issn on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so
much of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to
satisfy the balance, If enough for that purpose remain in his
hands. Notices of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 133. If, after sellin all the property attached by him
remaining in his hands, an applying the proceeds, together
with the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him,
deducting his fees, to the payment of the jud ent, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall procee to collect such
balance as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the

'udgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon 'reasonable

emand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached
property remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the
property attached unapplied on the judgment.

SEC. 134. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, plaintifff ma prosecute any undertakin
given pursuant to sections one undred and twenty-three an
one hundred and thirty-seven, or he may proceed as in odier
cases upon the return of an execution.

Ssc. 135. If the defendant recover 'udgment a inst the
plaintifff, any undertaking received in t e action, a l the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached, remaining in the sheriff's hands, shall be

eluvered to the defendant or his agent; the order of attachment shall be discharged, and the property released
therefrom. . ._

Sac. 136. Whenever the defendant shall have ap cared in
the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to t e plaintifff, to the court in which the action is pending, or to the judge

thereof, or to a probate judge, for an order to discharge the A

same, upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in
the next section; and if the application be granted. all the
proceeds of sales and monies collected by the sheriff, and all
the pro erty attached remainin in his hands, shall be released mm the attachment, an delivered to the defendant
upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if
r uired by the plaintifff.

no. 137. Upon such application the defendant shall deliver to the court or judge, an undertaking executed by at
least two sureties, residents of the district, to the effect that
the sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount
of any judgment that may be recovered in favor of the plaintifff in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be sufficient to satisfy the amount
claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint, and the costs. The
sureties may be required to justify, on such a plication before
the jud e or court, and the pro rty attache shall not be released om the attachment withfmt their justification, if the
same be required. ‘

8150. 138. In: all cases, when pro rty or effects have been
attached, the defendant, or any or itor of the defendant interested, may file a plea in the nature of a plea in. abatement,
under oath, putting in issue the truth of the facts alleged in
the affidavit on whlch the attachment was sued out.

SEO. 189. Upon’ such issue, the plaintifff shall be heldto
prove that the facts alleged by him in said affidavit, as the
grounds of the attachment, existed at the time of the issuance
of the writ of attachment. .. ‘

SEC. 140. If the issue he found against the plaintifff, the
attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the plaintifff, and
his sureties shall thereafter be liable upon the bond_ for all
damages sustained by the defendant, in consequence of the
issuing of the attachment. ‘

SEC. 141. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise,
within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his
proceedings indorsed thereon, or attached thereto.

CHAPTER V.

DEPOSIT IN COUPE. »a

SIG. 142. Court may order subject matter to be. i
143. Appointment of receiver.

Sec. 142. I When it'is admitted, by the pleading or examin- I

ation of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, Which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or which belongs, or is due to another party,
the court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited in
court or delivered to such part , upon such conditions as may
be just, subject to the further irection of the court.

Sec. 143.. A receiver may be ap ointed by the court in
which thesuit is pending, or bya ju ge thereof: First. . Before judgment, provisionally, on the application of either
party, when he establishes a prima facie right to the property,

or to an interest in the property which 18 the subject of theaction, and which is in possession of an adverse party, and
the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being
lost or materially injured or impaired. Second. After . judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judglment,
or to preserve it during t e pending of an appeal; and, hird.
In such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of
the courts of equity jurisdiction. v «

TITLE VI.
CHAPTER I.

TRIAL AND JUDGHENT.

Brno. 144. Judgment.
145. How given, street of.

146. Against one of several defendants.
147. Extent of relief.

148. Dismissal of action. or nonsnit. ,
1&9. Judgments on merits. '

See. 144.» A judgment is the final determination of the‘

rights of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be
entered in term or vacation.

SEC. 145.’ Jud ment may be given for or against one or
more of several p aintiifs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case
requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on
each side, as between themselves.

Sac. 146. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or
more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several jud ent is proper.

Sac. 147. The relie granted to the plaintifff, if there be no

answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demanded ~

in his complaint; but, in any other case, the court may grant
him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint
and embaced within the issue.

SEC. 148. An action may be dismissed or judgment ‘of nonsuit entered in the following cases: First. By the plaintifff
himself, at any time before trial, upon the payment of costs,
if a counterclaim has not been made. If aprovisional remedy
has been allowed, the undertaking shall thereupon be delivercd by the clerk to the defendant, who may have his action
thereon. Second. By either party, upon the written consent
of the other. Third. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to
a pear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for
t e dismissal. Fourth. By the court, when, upon the trial,
and before the final submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it. Fifth. By the court, upon motion of the defendant,
when, upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient
case for the ju . The dismissal in the first two subdivisions
shall be made y an en in the clerk's register. Judgment
ma thereupon be entere accordingly.

EC. 149. In every case other than those mentioned in the
last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER II.
0 Junonxr urox runcnn ro mswsn.

81:0. 150. Judgment ma be had, if the defendant fail to
answer, as follows: First. 11 an action arising upon contract

for the recovery of money or damages only, if no answer has

I
been filed with the clerk of the court within the time specified
in the summons, or such further time as may have been
granted, the clerk, upon application of the plaintiffi, shall enter
the default of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
Judgment for _the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section thirty-two.
Second. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the
clerk of the court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as ma have been granted, the clerk shall
enter the default of the de endant; and thereafter the plaintifff
may apply, at the first or. any subsequent term of the court,
for the reltief dqpligndogf 1(r)1ft‘lL1e cf%mt’pl1:)9.£13nt;ecIfs§'he ttzkgngbqg
an accoun , or ro ny c es ry n
the court to give Jpudgment or to carry the judgment into
effect, the 3(1)1ll‘t may take the qccountfor llilear the proog qir
ma , in its 'scretion, or er a re erence ort at urpose. n
whzre the action is for the recovery of dam gs, in whole or
in part, the court may order the dams (is _to e assessed by_a
Jury; or If, to determine the amount 0 damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference, as above
provided. Third. In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of
the time des1gnated_in the order of publication, may, u on
proof of the ublication, and that no answer has been ii ed,
apply for ju gment; and the court shall thereupon require
proiofftohbedmfadei ofttlie demand mgntitonqdtllln tihe .c;ompla111nt.i
an 1 e een an eno aresi en 0 e err1or,sa
require the plaintifff or his a ent to be examined on dyath respecting any payments that ave been made to the plaintifff,
or to an one for his use, on account of such demand, and
may ren er judgment for the amount which he is entitled to
recover.

CHAPTER III.

OP ISSUES, AND THE KANNER OF THEIR DISPOSITION.

Sac. 151. When an issue arises.

152. Of law, and of fact.

154. Of law, how tried.

155. Of fact, how tried.

156. Entry of causes on calendar.

1157. Either party may bring issue to trial.
158. Postponement of trial.

81:0. 151. An issue arises when a fact or conclusion of law
is maintained by the one party, and controverted by the other.
Issues are of two kinds: First. Of law. Second. Of fact.

SEC. 152. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint or answer, to some part thereof.

SEC. 153. An issue of fact arises: First. Upon a material
allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer. Second. U 11 new matters in the answer, except an issue of law

Is Joine therein.

Size. 154. An issue of law shall be tried~by the court, unless it be referred, upon consent, as provided in chapter six of
this title. ' ' y

SEC. 155. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury, unless
a  trial is waived or a reference ordered, as rovided in
this act. Where there are issues both of law an fact to the
same complaint, the issues of law shall be first di osed of.

SEC. 156. The clerk shall enter causes upon me calendar

of the court accordin to the date of the issue. Causes once
placed on the calen at, for a general or special term, if not
tried or heard at such term, shall remain upon the calendar
' from court to court, until finally disposed of.

81:0. 157. Either arty may bring the issue to trial or to a
hearing, and, in the a sence of the adverse party, (unless the

o

court, r ood cause, otherwise direct,) may roceed with his
case and ta e a dismissal of the action ora ver ict or judgment,
as the case may require. .

81:0. 158. A motion -to ostpone a trial, on the ground of
the absence of evidence, slliall only be made upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained and that due diligence has been used to procure it.
The court may also require the moving party to state upon
affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the
adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be
given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed. CHAPTER IV.

TRIAL BY JURY.

( ARTICLE I. PORKATION 0]‘ ‘I'll JURY.

8:0. 159. Jury, how drawn.

Bio. 160. To be sworn, form of oath.
16!. Challenge to, and for cause.
163. Challenge how tried.

SEC. 159. When the action is called for trial by jury, the
clerk shall prepare separate ballots, containing the names of
the jurors summoned who have a cared and not been
excused, and deposit them in a box. e shall then draw from
the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are drawn
shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted
before the jury is complete, or if, from any cause, a juror, or
jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriff shall summons,
under the direction of the court, from the citizens of the
county, and not from bystanders, so man qualified persons as
may be necessary to complete the jury. he jury shall consist
of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less number.
The parties ma consent to any number not less than three.
Such consent s all be entered by the clerk in the minutes of
the trial.

Sac. 160. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or
ailirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance
that they. each of them, will well and truly try the matters in
issue between —+—, the plaintifff, and —, the defendant, and
a true verdict render according to the evidence.

SEC. 161. Either party may challen e the jurors, but when
there are several parties on either si e, the shall 'oin in a
challenge before it can be made. The cha enge s all be to
individual jurors, and shall either be peremptory or for cause.
Each party shall be entitled to four peremptory challenges.

Sac. 162. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or
more of the following grounds: First. A want of any of
the qualifications prescribed bg statute to render a erson competent as a 'uror. Second. onsan inity or a nity within
the third egree to either party. hird. .Standing in the
relation of guardian and ward, master and servant, employer
and clerk, or principal and agent, to either party; or being a
member of the family of either party; or a partnerin business
with either party; or being security on any bond or obligation
for either party. Fourth. Having served as a juror or been
a witness on a previous trial between the same parties for the
same cause of action. Fifth. Interest on the part of the
juror in the event of the action, or in the main question
involved in the action, except the interest of the juror as a
member or citizenofamunicipal corporation. Sixth. Having
formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the
merits of the action. Seventh. The existence of a state of

mind in the juror evincing enmity against or bias to either
party.

SEC. 163. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court.
The juror challenged, and any other person, may be examined
as a witness on the trial of the challenge.

ARTICLE II. CONDUCT OF ‘PHI TRIAL.

8:0. 164. Juror becoming sick.

165. Charge tojury.

166. Jury may decide in court. or retire; duty of officer.

167. What papers jury may take.

168. Return of jury for instruction, and how given.

169. Proceedings when jury discharged without verdict.

170. Court may adjourn during absence of jury, sealed verdict. '
171. Verdict how given.

172. May be corrected.

173. How recorded, juror disagreeing to be sent out again. .

SEC. 164. If, after the empanneling of the jury, and before
verdict, a juror become sick, so as.to be unable to erform his
duty, the court may order him to be discharged. n that case,
the trial may roceed with the other jurors, or a new jury may
be sworn, and, the trial begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards empanneled.

SEC. 165. In charging the jury, the court shall state to them
all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving their verdict; and, if it state the testimony of
the case, it shall also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all uestions of fact. The court shall furnish
to either party, at t e time, upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law contained in the char e, or shall sign,
at the time, a statement of such points prepare and submitted
by the council of either party.

SEC. 166. After hearing the charge, the jury may either
decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they
shall be kepttogether in a room provided for them, or some

other convenient place, under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by
the court. The officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep
the. jury together, separate from other persons; he shall not

-suiier any communication to be made to them, or make any

himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask them i
they have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before
the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state
of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.

Snc. 167. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may
take with them all papers (except depositions) which have
been received as evidence in the case, or co ies of such papers
as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to e taken from the
person having them in possession; and they may also take
with them notes of the testimony, or other proceedings on the
trial, taken by themselves or any of them; but none taken
by any other person.

SEC. 168. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a dice reement between them as to any part of the
testimony, or i they desire to be informed of any point of law
arising in the cause, they ma require the officer to conduct
them 1nto court. . Upon their eing broughtinto court, the information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the arties or counsel.

SEC. 169. n all cases where a jury are discharged, or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of accident, or other
cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the cause is
submitted to them, the action may be again tried immediately,
or at a future time, as the court may direct.

SEC. 170. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn, from time to time, in respect to other business; but it

shall nevertheless be deemed open for every urpose connected
with the cause submitted to the jury, unti a verdictis rendered, or the jury discharged. The court may direct the jury
to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of the court, in
case of an a reement during a recess, or adjournment for the
day. A iina adjournment )f the court for the term shall discharge the ju .

SEC. 171. %hen the jury shall have agreed upon their verdict, they shall be conducted into court by the officer having
them in char e. Their names shall then be called, and the
shall be aske by the court, or clerk, whether they have agree
upon their verdlct; and if the foreman answer in the afl1rmative, they shall, on bein required, declare the same.

SEC. 172. If the vergict be informal, or insuiiicient in not
covering the Whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict may
be corrected by the jury, under the advice of the com°t, or the
jury may be a in sent out.

See. 173. en the verdict is given, and is not informal
or insuiiicient, the clerk shall immediately record it in full, in
the minutes, and shall read it to the jury, and inquire of them
whether it be their verdict. If any juror dis rec, the ju
shall be again sent out; but if no disagreement e expresse ,

the verdict shall be complete, and the jury shall be discharged
from the case.

Bxc. 174. Kinds of verdict.
176. When to find amount of recovery.

177. In action to recover specific property.
178. Entry in minutes.

SEC. 174. The verdict of a jury is either general or special.
A general verdict is that by which they pronounce enerally
upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the p aintiif or
defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find the
facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. The special
verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as established by
the evidence, and not the evidence to rove them; and those
conclusions of fact shall so be presente as that nothing shall
remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 175. In an action for the recovery of money only, or
specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render
a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury to iind a special verdict in writing upon all or
any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon articular questions of
fact to be stated in writing, and ma irect a written finding
thereon. The special finding or ver ict shall he filed with the
clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a special nnding
of facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment
accordin ly.

SEC. 176. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff, in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when
a counterclaim for the recovery of money is establised, exceeding the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, the jury
shall also iind the amount of the recovery.

Sec. 177. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintiii‘, or the defendant, by his answer, claim a return thereof,
the jury, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if, being in favor of the defendant, they also find that he is entitled
to a return thereof, shall find the value of the propertiy, and
may at the same time assess the damages, if any are c aimed
in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such prope .

SEC. 178. Upon receiving a verdict, an entry shall be ma e
by the clerk in the minutes of the court, specifying the time
of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and the verdiet; and where a special verdict is found, either the judgment rendered thereon, or, if the case be reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus reserving it.

CHHPTER V.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

Sac. 179. Jury trial may be waived.
180. Decision of court.
181. Chancery cases.

SEC. 179. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact, in actions arising on contract, and with
the assent of the court in other actions, in the manner following: First, By failingto appear at the trial. Second. By
written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
Third. By oral consent, in open court, entered in the minutes. The court may prescribe by rule what shall be deemed
a waiver in other cases._

SEC. 180. U on the trial of an issue of fact by the court,
its decision shal be given in writing; and filed with the clerk,
within ten days after the trial took place. In givin the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law sh 1 be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered
accordingly. ‘

SEC. 181. Chancery cases maybe tried by the court with
or without the finding of a jury upon issue formed by the
court; and on a judgment upon an issue or law, if the taking
of an account be necessary to enable the court to complete
the judgment, a reference may be ordered.

CHAPTER VI.

'0? REFERENCES, AND TRIAL BY REFEREIS.

8:0. 182. Issues of law and fact may be referred.
188. When parties do not consent the court may.

BIO. 184; when issue require examination of lo accounts.
188. Reference not to consist of more than me.

187. Quaiiilcation of. . 3‘, _‘
189. Report shall state facts and law separately, and shall file evidence received on trial.
190. Either party may move to set aside judgment.

Sac. 182. All or any of theissues in the action, whether
of fact or law, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties.

SEC. 183. When the parties do not consent, the court may,
upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a
reference in the following cases :

SEC. 184. When the trial of an issue of fact shall re uire
the examination of a long account on either side; in w ich
case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole
issue, or to re ort upon an specific question of fact involved
therein; or, en the ta °ng of an account “shall be necessary for the information of the court, before judgment upon
an issue of law, or for carryinga judgment or order into effect;
or, When a question of fact other than upon the leadings
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of ti:

SEC. 185. When it is necessary for the information of the
court in a special proceeding.

SEC. 186. A reference may be ordered to any person or
persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. It
the parties do not agree, the court or judge may appoint one
or more, not exceedm three.

Sac. 187. When t c appointment of referees is made by
the court or judge, each referee shall be: First. Qualified as
a juror as rovided by statute. Second. Competent as a juror
between t e parties.

SEC. 188. When the referees are chosen by the court, each
party shall have the same right to challenge, as to such referees,
to be made and determined in the same manner and with like
effect, as in the formation of juries, except that neither party
shall be entitled to a peremptory challenge. Subject to the
limitations and directions rescribed in the order of reference,
the trial by referees shall e conducted in the same manner as
a trial by the court. They shall have the same power to grant
adjournments, administer oaths, to preserve order, and punish
all violations thereof‘, upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish them for non-attendance,
or refusal to be sworn or testi.i'|y", as’ is possessed by the court.

SEC. 189. The report of t e referees shall state the facts
found, and when the order of reference includes an issue of
law, it shall state the conclusions of law separately from the

e action, _

facts. The referees shall file with their re rt the evidence
received upon the trial. If evidence offer by either party
shall not be admitted on the trial, and the arty offering the
same except to the decision, rejecting sucli, evidence at the
time, the exception shall be noted by the referees, and they
shall take and receive such testimony and file it with the report. Whatever judgment the court ma give upon the report,

It shall, when it appears that such evi ence was frivolous or ,

inadmissible, require that the party at whose instance it was
taken and reported to pay all costs and disbursements thereby
inc°u1-red.

Sac. 190. The report shall be filed with the clerk. If it
be filed in term time, either arty may, Within such time as
may be prescribed by the ru es of the court, or by special
order, move to set the same aside or for judgment thereon, or
such order or proceeding as the nature of the case may require.
If the report be filed in vacation, the like proceedings may be
had at the next term following. The court may affirm or set
aside the report, either in whole or in part. ‘If it affirm the
report, it shall give jud ment accordingly. If the report be
set aside, either in who e or in part, the court may make another order of reference, as to all, or so much of the report as
is set aside, to the original referees, or others, or it may find
the facts and determine the law itself, and give jud ment accordin l y. U on a motion to set aside a report, tge conclusions t erect s all be deemed and considered as the verdict
of a jury.

CHAPTER VII. .

ARTICLE I. EXCEPTIONS.

J

Bic. ‘I91. Exceptlonglellned.
192. How taken.

194. When implied.

Sac. 191. An exception is an objection taken at the trial
to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by
jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to a
jury, or at any other time from the calling of the actlon for
trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an
appeal, unless the exception be material, and affect the substantial rights of the parties. '

SEC. 192. The point of the exception shall be particularly
stated, and may be delivered in writing to the judge, or, if the
party reguire it, shall be written down by °the clerk. When

elivere in writing, or written down by the clerk, it shall be
made conformable ‘to the truth, or be at the time corrected
until it is so made conformable. When not delivered in
writing, or written-down as above, it may be entered in the
judge’s minutes, and afterwards settled in a statement of the
case as provided in this act.

Size. 193. N o particular form of exception. shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of ‘the
evidence, or other matter, as is necessa to explain it, but no
more; and the whole as briefly as possi le.

Sac. 194. - When a cause has been tried by the court or by
referees, and the decision or report is not made immediately
after the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall
be deemed excepted to on a motion for a new trial or on appeal, without any special notice that an exception is taken

thereto.

ARTICLE 11. NEW TRIALS.

BIO. 196. Defined.
198. For what cause granted. _
197. When application to be made on affidavit.
198. Prerequisites to motion for.
199. Application, when to be made.

Size. 195. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue of
fact, in the same court, after a trial and decision by a jury,
court or referees in actions at law; but, in chancery cases,
such re-examination shall be called a re-hearing; and motions
for a new trial or re-hearing, as the case may he, shall be conducted as in this article provided.

SEC. 196. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated, and a new trial or re-hearing granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes
materially affecting the substantial rights of such party: First.
Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse
party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion b
which either part was prevented from having a fair tria .
Second. Miscon net of the jury. Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.

Fourth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. Fifth.
Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice. Sixth. Insufliciency of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or that it is
against law. Seventh. Error in law, occurring at the trial,
and excepted to by the party making the application.

Size. 197. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the
last section, it shall be made upon aiiidavit; for any other
cause it shall be made upon a statement prepared as provided
in the next section.

SEC. 198. The party intending to move for a new trial shall
give notice of the same within two days after the trial, and
shall, Within five days after such notice, prepare and file with
the clerk the affidavit required by the last section, or a statement of the grounds upon which he intends to rel . If no
affidavit or statement he filed within five days after e notice,
the right to move for a new trial shall be deemed waived. The
statement shall contain so much ot the evidence or reference
thereto, as may be necessary to explain the grounds taken, and
no more. Such statement, when containing any portion of the
evidence of the case, and not agreed to by the adverse party,
shall be settled by the jud e, upon notice. On the argument,
reference may also be ma e to the pleadings, depositions and
documentary evidence on file and to the minutes of the court.
If the application be made upon affidavits filed, the adverse
party may use counter-affidavits on the hearing. Any counter-affidavits shall be filed with the clerk one day, at least,
previous to the hearin .

SEC. 199. The appgication for a new trial or re-hearing
shall be made at the earliest period practicable, after filing the
affidavit or statement.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

Ste. 200. Judgment. how and when entered.
201. Argument of case.
202. Where counterclaims exceed demands of plaintiff.

Blo. 200. In action for recovery of personal property.

204. Jndment book.

205. Death of party.

200. Judgment roll and lieu of.

208. Docket, how kept.

309. To be kept open for inspection.

210. Judgment lien In other counties, and duration of.
211. Batidactton of Judgment, how entered.

SEC. 200. When trial by jury has been had, jud _ment shall
be entered b the clerk in conformity to the ver ict, within
twenty-tour ours after the rendition of the verdict, unless the
court order the case to be reserved for argument or further
consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.

Sac. 201. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be
brought b either party before the court for argument.

SEC. 20 . If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plainti&"s demand, so established, judgment for the
defendant shall be given for the excess; or, if it appear that
the defendant is entitled to an other affirmative relief, judgment shall be 'ven accordingly.

SEC. 203. n an action to recover the possession of personal
proplerty, jud ent for the plaintifff may be for the possession
or t e value t ereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and
damages for the detention. If the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return of the
property, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of
the property, or the value thereof‘, in case a return cannot be
had, and dam es for takin and withholding the same.

SEC. 204. he clerk sha lkeep among the records of the
court a book for the entry of judgments, to be called the
“Judgment Book,” in which each judgment shall be entered,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action.

SEC. 205. If a par die after a verdict or decision upon
any issue of fact, and efore judgment, the court may, nevertheless, render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not
be a lien on the real property of the deceased arty, but shall
be payable in the course of administration on ‘s estate.

SEC. 206. Immediately after enterin the judgment, the
clerk shall attach together and file the to owing papers, which
shall constitute the jud ment roll: First. In case the complaint be not answered y any defendant, the summons, with
the afddavit or roof of service and the complaint, that the
default of the dgfendant in not answering was entered, and a
copy of the judgment. Second. In all other cases, the summons, pleadin , and a copy of the judgment, and any orders
relating to a c ange of the parties.

SEC. 206. Immediately after filing the judgment-roll, the
clerk shall make pro er entries of the judgment, under appropriate heads, in the ocket kept b him; and from the tune
the judgment is docketed it shall ecome a lien upon all the
real property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, 111 the county, owned b him at the time or which he
ma afterwards acquire, until t e said lien expires. The lien
sha 1 continue for two years, unless the judgment is previously
satisfied.

Sac. 208. The docket mentioned in the last section is a
book which the clerk shall kee in his office, with each page
divided into eight columns, an headed as follows: Judgment
Debtors; Jud ment Creditors; Judgment; Time of Entry;
Where entere in Judgment Book; Appeals, when taken;
Judgment of A ellate Court; Satisfaction of Judgment,
when entered. judgment be for recovery of money or
damages, the amount shall be stated in the docket under the
head of Judgment; if the judgment be for any other relief, a
memorandum of the general character of the relief granted
shall be stated. The names of the defendants shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

SEC. 209. The docket kept by the clerk shall be open at
all times, during office hours, for the inspection of the public,
without charge; and it shall be the duty of the clerk to arran e the several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to
facilitate their inspection.

SEC. 210. A transcript of the original docket, certified by
the clerk, may be filed with the recorder of any other county;
and from the time of the filing, the judgment shall become a
lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt from execution in such county, owned by him at the
time or which he ma afterwards acquire, until the said lien
ex ires. The lien s all continue for two years, unless the
ju gment be previously satisfied.

Sac. 211. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
the clerk's docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or
upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk,
made in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance
of real property, by the judgment creditor; or within one
year after the judgment, by the attorney, unless a revocation
of his authority be previously filed. Whenever a judgment
shall be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution, it
shallbe the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledgment; and, upon motion, the court may compel it,
or may order_ the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.

TITLE VII.

OF THE EXECUTION OF JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

CHAPTER I.

THE EXECUTION.

(B30. 212. Limit for issue of writ of

213. Forms of, and what to contain.

214. On judgment on joint contract.

216. When returnable.

216. When judgment requires performance of other acts than payment, etc.
217. How issued after five years.

218. After death of party.

219. May issue to diiiereut counties.

220. Property liable to.

221. Real and personal property belonging to married woman.
222. What property is exempt from execution or attachment.
223. May waive.

224. Defendant may select.

225. When property levied upon is claimed to be exempt.

226. How satisned.

227. Sale of property, notice how given.

228. Penalty for selling without notice.

229. Sales how made.

230. Purchaser refusing to pay, property to be resold.

231. Proceedings to enforce payment of loss of re-sale.

232. Amount for which oiiicer is liable.

233. Certiiicate of sale, etc.

235. Sale of real estate, when absolute.

236. When subject to redemption.

237. Redemption, how made.

241. Waste may be restrained.

242. Rents and pronts.

243. When purchaser may recover price paid from judgment creditor.

SEC. 212. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may, at any time within five years from the entry thereof,
issue a writ of execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in
this chapter of this act.

SEC. 213. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name
of the people of the United States of the territory of Idaho,
sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk,
and shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intel igibly refer
to the judgment, stating the court, the county where the
judgment roll is filed, the names of the parties, the judgment,
and, if it be for money, the amount thereof, and the amount
actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially
as follows: First. If it be a ainst the roperty of the judgment debtor, it shall require e sheri to satisfy the judgment, with interest out of the personal property of such debtor,
and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of his real property; or, if the judgment be a lien upon real
property, then out of the real property belonging to him on
the day the judgment was docketed; or, if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the jud ment
was recovered, on the day when the transcri t of the ocket
was filed in the office of the recorder of suc county, stating
such day, or at any time thereafter. Second. If it be against
real or personal property, in the handgof the ersonal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants 0 real property,
or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the 'udgment,
with interest, out of such pro erty. Third. If it e a ainst
the person of the judment de tor, it shall require the s eriii
to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county
until he pay the judgment with interest, or be discharged
according to law. Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal pro erty, it shall re uire the
sheriff to deliver the possession of t e same, particu arly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same  

time, require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, dama es, rents or
profits recovered by the same judgment,_out of t e personal
property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the pro erty for which the judgment was recovered,
to be specified t erein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had;
and if sufficient personal pro erty cannot be found, then out
of real property, as provide in the first subdivision of this
section.

8130. 214. When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more ersons, in an action upon
a joint contract, in which action al the defendants were not
served with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the
sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all
the defendants, and the individual pro erty only of the defendants who were served, or whoappeare in the action. In other

respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified in the
first subdivision of the last section.

Size. 215. The execution may be made returnable at any
time, not less than five, nor more than sixty days after its
receipt by the sherin, to the clerk with whom the judgment
roll is filed.

SEC. 216. Where judgment requires the payment of money
or the dclive of real or personal property, the same shall be
enforced, in those respects, by execution. Where it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against whom it is given,
or upon the erson or officer who is required thereby, or by
law to obey t e same, and his obedience thereto enforced.

SEC. 217. Alter the lapse of five years from the entr of
judgment, an execution shall be issued only by leave 0 the
court, on motion. Such leave shall not be ven, unless it be
established by the oath of the party, or ot er proof, that the
judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

Sac. 218. Notwithstanding the death of a party after the
judgment, execution thereon against his property may, upon
permission ranted by the probate court, be issued and
executed in t e same manner, and with the same effect, as if
he were still living.

SEC. 219. Where the execution is against the pro erty of
the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheri of any
county in the territory. Where it requires the delivery of
real or personal property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the

county where the property, or some part thereof is situated.

Executions may be issued at the same time, to different

counties. «
SEC. 220. All goods, chattels, monies and other property,
real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law,
and all property and rights of ropert seized and held under
attachment in the action, shall be lia le to execution. Until
a levy, property shall not be affected by the execution. Shares
and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and
credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery,
may be attached on execution in like manner as upon writs of
attachment. Gold dust, and gold and silver bullion, shall be
returned by the officer as so much money collected at its current value, Without exposing the same to sale.
‘ Sac. 221. All real and personal estate belonging to an
married woman at the time of her marriage, and all which
she may have acquired subsequently to such marriage, or to
which she shall have after become entitled in her own right,
and all her personal earnings, and all the issues, rents and

profits of such real estate, shall not be liable to attachment for
or execution upon any liability or jud ment against the husband, so long as she or any minor chi (1 of her bod shall be
living: Provided, That her separate roperty shal be liable
for debts owin by her at the time of er marriage.

SEC. 222. he following property shall be exempt from
execution or attachment, except as is hereafter specially provided: First. A homestead, not exceedin three thousand
dollars in value, to include the dwellin ouse and other
buildings and the land orlots upon which tgey stand. Second.
All wearing apparel of every person and family. Third. All
private libraries, musical instruments, family pictures and

eepsakes. Fourth. To each household, two beds and bedding, and one additional bed and b.eddin for every two members of the family, and other househol goods and utensils
and furniture not exceeding two hundred and titty dollars in
value. Fifth. To each householder, one horse, two cows,
with their calves, ten swine, to stands of bees, one hundred
domestic fowls, and provisions and feed for the comfortable
maintenance of such household and family for six months:
Provided, That in case such householder shall not possess or
shall not desire to retain the animals named above, be may
select from his stock and retain other animals, not to exceed
three hundred dollars in value. Sixth. To a farmer, the
tools, implements and farming utensils actually used about
the farm, two yoke of oxen, with yokes and chains, or one
span of horses, with harness, and one wagon. Seventh. To
a mechanic, the tools and instruments used to carry on the
trade, occupation or business in which he is engaged for his
sup rt, or the support of his family; also, material not excee inglin value two hundred dollars. Eighth. To physicians, t. eir libraries and medicines, of the value of two hundred dollars. Ninth. To attorneys, cler 'men, teachers and
other professional men, their libraries. igdnth. All property
of the territory, or of any county, incorporated city, town or
village therein, or of any public or municipal corporation of
like character. Eleventh. All fire-arms kept for the use of
any person or family. Twelfth. To any person, a skiff or
smal boat, with its oars, sails and ri ging, not exceeding in
value fifty dollars. Thirteenth. T e tent and furniture,
including a table, camp stools, bed and bedding of a miner;
his rocker, shovels, spades, picks, wheelbarrows, pumps and
other instruments used in mining, with provisions necessary
for his support for three months. Fourteenth. A sufficient
téluantity ot' hay or grain or feed for kee ing for four months,

e animals mentioned in the several su divisions of this section as exempted from execution and attachment._ But no
article of property mentioned in this section shall be exempt
from an execution issued upon a mortgage thereon, or for any
tax levied thereon, or for any judgment for the purchase money
thereof: Provided, That no mortgage made b a married man
of any property exempted from execution an attachment by
this act, shall be of any validity unless the wife shall join in
such mortgage, and the same be witnessed and acknowledged
by her as 18 required in case of a deed conveying her interest

in real estate.
SEC. 223. Any single man, or a married man, his wife

{oining him in the waiver, may waive the benefit, if they act
y an agreement in writing, to e witnessed and acknowledged
in the manner required in a deed conve iug real estate.

SEC. 224. In all cases the defendant imself may select the
property which is exem t.

SEC. 225. When a s eriff or other officer has levied upon
or attached, or is about to levy upon or attach personal property which is claimed to be by law exem t from execution or
attachment, the sheriff or other oiiicer sha 1, if required b the
person claiming, forthwith summon three discreet and isinterested men, having the qualifications of jurors and resident
in the vicinity where the property is found, and administer to
them an oath impartially to examine ‘and determine how much,
if any of said property is so exempt. Such persons shall have
full power to summon witnesses, administer the necessary
oaths, and ad'ourn from time to time, not longer than three
days in all. hey shall also have power to a praise the roperty claimed, and the other property of the c aimant, so ar as
may be necessary to determine what portion of it is exempt.
The shall deliver their decision to the sheriff in writing, and
he shall forthwith deliver to the person claiming, such as is by
them decided exempt from execution ; but nothin in this
section contained shall prevent the person claiming tie property from giving a bond and trying his right before the district
court, as is provided in cases for trying the ri ht of property
claimed by other persons than the judgment de tor.

SEC. 226. The sheriff shall execute the writ against the
property of the judgment debtor, b levying on a sufiicient
amount of property, if there be su 'cient; collecting or selling the things in action, and selling the other roperty, and
payin to the plaintifff or his attorney so much o the proceeds
as wil satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the clerk of the court; any excess in the proceeds over the
judgment and the sheriti"s fees shall be returned to the judgment debtor. When there is' more property of the judgment

debtor than is suilicient to satisfy the judgment and the sheriff's fees, within the view of the sheriff, he shall levy on only
such part of the roperty as the jud ment debtor may indicate: Provided, hat the judgment ebtor be present and indicate at the time of the levy, such part: And, Provided, That

the property indicated be amply sufficient to satisfy such judg- '

ment and fees.

Sec. 227. Before the sale of pro erty, on execution, notice
thereof shall be given as follows: irst. In case of perishable property, by postin written notice of the time and place
of sale in three ublic places of the township or city where the
sale is totake p ace, for such a time as may be reasonable, considering the character and condition of the property. Second.
In case of other ersonal roperty, by posting a similar-notice
in three ublic p aces of t e township or city where the sale is
to take p ace, not less than five nor more than ten days successively. In case of real property, ,by posting a similar notice,
particularl describing the property, for twenty days successively, in t ree public places of the township orcity where the
property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold;
and publishing a copy thereof once a week, for the same period, in a newspaper 111 the county, if there be one.

SEC. 228. An officer selling without the notice prescribed
by the last section shall forfeit five hundred dollars to the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages; and a person
willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of the jud ent (if the judgment be satisfied before sale), shall forfeit ve hundred dollars.

S150. 229. All sales of property under execution shall be
made at auction, to the highest bidder, and shall be made between the hours of nine in the morning and five in the afternoon; after sufiicient roperty has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holdin
the execution nor his deputy shall becomea purchaser at such
sale. When the sale is of personal property, ca able of manual delivery, it shall be within view of those w o attend the
sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
prices; and when the sale is of real pro erty, and consists
of several known lots or arcels, they shall e sold separately;
or when a ortion of suc real property is claimed by a third
person, an _he requires it to be sold se aratel , such portion
shall be thus sold. The judgment debtor, i present at the
sale, may also direct the order in which property, real or personal, shall be sold, when such roperty consists of several
‘known lots or parcels, or of artic es which can be sold to‘ advanta e separately; and the sheriff shall be bound to follow
such irectlons.

SEC. 230. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid by
him for property struck off to him at a sale under execution,
the officer may again sell the property, at any time, to the
hi hest bidder; and if any loss be occasioned thereby, the
o cer may recover the amount of such loss, with costs, by
motion, upon previous notice of five days, before any court or
before any justice of the peace, if the same shall not exceed
his jurisdiction.

SEC. 231. Such court or justice shall proceed in a summary
manner to give judgment, and issue execution therefore forthwith; but the defendant may _claim a jury. And the same
proceeding may be had against any subsequent purchaser, who
may refuse to pay; and the oiiicer may, in his discretion,
thereafter reject the bid of an person so refusing.

SEC. 282. The two prece ing sections shall not be construed to make the officer liable for an more than the amount
bid by the second or subsequent pure asers, and the amount
collected from the purchaser refusing to pay.

SEC. 233. When the purchaser of any personal property,
capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase money, the
o cer making the sale shall deliver to«the urchaser the property, and, if desired, shall execute and de iver to him a certificate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall conve to the purchaser all the right, title and interest which the
de tor had in and to such property on the day the execution
was levied.

SEC. 234. When the urchaser of any personal property
not capable of manual (1 livery, shall pay the urchase money,
the officer making the sale shall execute an deliver to the
purchaser a certificate of sale and payment. Such certificate
shall convey to the purchaser all right, title and interest which
the debtor ad in and to such property on the day the execution was levied.

Sac. 235. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is
less than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale
shall be absolute. In all other cases, the real property sold
shall be subject to redemption, as provided in this act. The
officer shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, containing: First. A particular description of the real prope
sold. Second. The price paid for each distinct lot or arce .
Third. The whole price paid. Fourth. When subject to
redemption, it shall be so stated. A duplicate of such certificate shall be filed with the recorder of the county.

SEC. 236. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last section, or any part sold separately, may be
redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided, by the following

rsons, or their successors in interest: First. The judgment
gfabtor, or his successor in interest,'in the whole or any part
of the property. Second. A creditor, havi a lien by judgment or mortgage on the propert sold. T e persons mentioned in the second subdivlsion 0 this section are in this act
termed redem tioners.

Sec. 237. he judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may
redeem the property from the purchaser within six months
after the sale, on paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase, with eighteen per cent. thereon in addition, together
with the unount of an assessments or taxes which the purchaser may have paid ereon ; and if the purchaser be also a
creditor, having a lien prior to that of the redemptioner other
than the judgment under which the purchase was made, the
amount of such lien with interest.

830. 238. If the prop be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the judgment ebtor, or any other redemptioner
may, within sixty days after the last redemption, again redeem
it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such
last redemption, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and

. the amount of any assessments or taxes, which the said last

redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption by
him, with interest on such amount; and the amount of an
liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, wi
interest in addition: Provided, That the 'udg-ment under
which the property was sold need not be paid as a lien. The
prope may be again redeemed, and as often as the debtor
or a re emptioner, within sixty days after the last redemption,
pay the amount of the last redemption, with four per cent.
thereon in addition; and the amount of any assessments or
taxes which the said last previous redemptioner aid after the
redemption by him, with interest thereon; an the amount
of any liens other than the judgment under which the property
was sold, held by the said last redemptioner, previous to his
own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to
the sheriff. If no redemption be made within six months after
sale, the purchaser or his assi ee shall be entitled to a conveyance; or, if so redeeme , whenever sixty days have
elapsed, and no other redemption ‘has been made, and notice
thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and
the last redemptioner, or his assignee, be entitled to a sheriff's
deed. If the debtor redeem at any time before the time for
redemption expires, the effects of the sale shall be terminated,
and he be restored to his estate.

B20. 239. The payment mentioned in the last two sections
may be made to the purchaser or redemptioner as the case
may be, or for him, to the officer who made the sale, and a
tender of the mone shall be equivalent to payment.

SEC. 240. A r emptioner shall produce to the officer, or
person from whom he seeks to redeem, a and serve with his
notice to the sheriff: First. A copy of the docket of the
'udgment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified

y the clerk of the court, or of the county where the judgment is docketed; or if he redeem upon a mortgage or other
lien, a note of the record thereof, certified by the recorder.
Second. A co y of any assignment necessary to establish his
claim, verified y the aiiidavit of himself, or of a subscribing
witness thereto; and, Third. An affidavit by himself, or his
agent, showin%the amount then actually due on the lien.

Size. 241. ntil the expiration of the time allowed for
redemption, the court may restrain the commission of any
waste on the property, by order granted, with or without
notice, on the application of the purchaser or the judgment
creditor. But it shall not be deemed waste for the person in
possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to
possession afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry,
or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon, or to
use wood or timber on the property therefore, or for the repair
of fences, or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the
property.

Size. 242. The purchaser from the time of sale until a
redemption, and ‘a redemptioner, from the time of his redemption, until another redem tion, shall be entitled toreceive from
the tenant in possession t e rents of the pro erty sold, or the
value of the use and occupation thereof: ovided, That in
case the property shall be redeemed as provided in this act, the
amount of such rents and profits which may have been received
by such purchaser or redemptioner, or which said purchaser or
remptioner ma have been entitled to claim or receive, unless
such claim sha 1 be released to the person claiming such right
of redemption, shall be deducted from the amount which such
purchaser or redemptioner may have been entitled to receive
on such redem tion.

SEC. 243. the purchaser of real pro rty sold on execution, or his successor in interest, be evicte therefrom, in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the
sale or of the reversal or discharge of the Judgment, he ma
recover the price paid, with interest, &om the Judgment cre , any other or after acquired

itor. If the purchaser of property at sheriff' s sale, or his successor in interest, fail to recover possession in consequence of
irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because
the property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
p in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment
or e amount aid by such purchaser at the sale, with interest
thereon, from t e time of payment, at the same rate that the
original judgment bore; and when so revived, the said judgment shall have the same effect as the original judgment of
said court, of that date, and bearing interest as aforesaid; and
roperty, rents, issues or profits of
the said debtors, shall be liable to levy and the sale under
execution in satisfaction of such debt; I’i'<3v{ded, That no
pro erty of such debtor sold, bona jide, before the filing of such
- P. . . . .

petition, shall be subject to the lem of sald judgment; And,
provided further, That notice of the tilin of such petition shall
be made by filing a notice thereof in t e recorder’s office of
the county where such property may be situated; and that
said judgment shall be revived in the name of the original
plaintifff or plaintifffs, for the use of said petitioner, the party
in interest. All sales ordered by the court shall be conducted
in the same manner as sales upon execution.

CHAPTER II.

CLAIM 1'0 PROPERTY LEVIID UPON AND ATTACHED.

Bio. 244. When other than judgment debtor claims property.

245. Omcer shall return papers to clerk of district court who shall place the
same on docket for trial.

248. Person claiming property shall be plaintin.

247. If claimant fail to maintain his title, judgment shall be rendered against
him.

830. 244. When any other than the judgment debtor shall
claim pro rty levied upon or attached, he may have the ri ht
to deman and receive the same from the sheriff or 0 er
officer making the attachment or levy, upon his making an
affidavit that the property is his, or that he has a right to the
immediate possession thereof, stating on oath the value thereof,
and 'ving to the sheriff or officer a bond, wlth sureties, in

doub e the value of such property, conditioned that he will

appear at the next term of the district court in which the propert was seized, which shall commence ten days or more after
the ond is accepted by the sherifi or other officer, and make
good his title to the same, or that he will return the pro erty
or pay’ its value to the said sheriff or other officer. 1}} the
she ' or other officer require it, the sureties shall justify, as
in other cases; and in case they do not so justify when reuired, the sheriff or officer sha I retain the property. If the
erif or officer do not require the bail to justify, he shall
stand good for their sumciency. He shall date and endorse
his acce tance on the bond.

' Sac. 45. The officer shall return the affidavit, bond and
justification, if an , to the office of the clerk of the district
court, and the cler shall place the same upon his trial docket
at the first term, which shall commence ten days or more after
it was acce ed by the sheriff or officer, as above provided for,
and it shal stand for trial at that term.

Ssc. 246. The person claimin the property shall be
laintiif, and the sheriff and p aintiff in the execution
efendants.

Sec. 247. If the claimant makes good his title to the proerty, the bond shall be canceled; if to a portion thereof, a

like proportion to the bond shall be canceled ; but if he shall
not maintain his title, jud ment shall be rendered against him
and his sureties for the va us of the property, or for such aless
amount as shall not exceed the amount due on the original
execution or attachment. Where the judgment is in favor of
the sheriff for the entire property, the claimant shall pay the
costs; where the claimant recovers all the property, judgment
shall be given in favor of the claimant for costs; where the
claimant recovers a portion of the property onl , the costs
shall be apportioned. When the plaintifff prevai s, the costs
may be taxed against the defendant who was tplaintiffl in the
execution or attachment, or the court ma , if ey shall be of
opinion that the sheriff attached or levie upon said property
without the exercise of duecaution, adjudge him to pay the
costs or any portion thereof.

CHAPTER III.

PROCEIDIRGB BUPLEIIIIITABY TO THE IXECUTIOIU.

ha. 248. when judgment debtor my be required to answer.

Inc. 20. Persons indebted to judgment debtor may pay enodon.

250. Debtor of judgment debtor may be required to answer.
25-1. Debtor to appear and answer.

252. Witnesses may be required to appear.

25!. Property liable to execution.

254. Court may order cross-action in certain cases.

255. Penalty of disobedience of order of referee.

Snc. 248. When an execution against groper-ty of the
judgment debtor, or of any one of several ebtors in some
jud ent issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides,
ori he do not reside in this territory, to the sheriff of the
county where the judgment roll is filed, is returned unsatisiied
in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after
such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from a judge
of the court, requiring such judgment debtorto appear and
answer concerning his property, before such jud e, or a referee
appointed by him, at a time and place speciii in the order;
but no judgment debtor shall be required to attend before a
judge or referee out of the county in which he resides, when
proceedings are taken under the provisions of this act.

Sec. 24 . After the issuin of an execution against propcrty, and upon proof upon a davit of a party or otherwise,
to the satisfaction of the court, or of a judge thereof, that any
jud ment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to
ap y towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or
ju ge may, by an order, require the judgmentdebtor to appear
at a specified time and place before such judge, or referee a
pointed by him, to answer concerning the same; and suc
proceeding may thereupon be had for the application of the
property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the

udgment as are provided upon the return of an execution.
stead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment
debtor, the judge may, upon affidavit of the judgment creditor,
his agent or attorney, if it ap ear to him that there is danger
of the debtor absconding, 0 er the sherif to arrest the debtor
and bring him before the 'udge. Upon being brou ht before
the judge, he may be 0 ered to enter into an un ertaking,
with su cieut security, that he will attend from time to time
before the judge or referee, as shall be directed during the
pendency of proceedings. and until the final determination
thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion
of his property not exempt from execution. In default of entering mto such undertaking, he may be committed to prison.

SEC. 250. After the issuing of an execution against property, an person indebted to the judgment debtor may payto
the she:-ii‘ the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may

I
be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff"s receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

SEC. 251. After the issuing and return of an execution
against the propertz of a judgment debtor, or of any one of
several debtors In t e same jud ent, and upon dproof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satis action of the ju ge, that any
person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fa y dollars, the
judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or
any odicer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time
and place, before him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer conceruin the same.

SEC. 252. itnesses may be required to appear and testify
before the judge, or referee, upon any procee mgs under this
act, in the same manner as upon the tnal of an issue.

SEC. 253. The judge may order any property of the °ud ment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands 0 suci
debtor or any other erson, or due to the judgment debtor, to
be ap lied toward e satisfaction of the judgment; except
that t e earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at
any time within thirty days next preceding the order, shall not
be so applied, when 1t shall be made to appear by the debtor's
aiiidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the
use of a famil supported wholly or in part by his labor.

SEC. 254. ff it ap ear that a person or corporation alleged’
to have property of tge judgment debtor, or indebted to hlm,
claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies
the debt, the court or judge may authorize, by an order to
that effect, the judgment creditor to institute a suit against

.such person or corporation for the recovery of such interests

or de t; and the court or judge may, by an order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an
action can be commenced and prosecuted to 'udgment. Such
order may be modified or vacated by a ju e granting the
same, or the court in which the action is broug t, at any time,
upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 255. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an
order of the referee, properly made in the proceedings before
him under this chapter, he may be punished by the court or
judge ordering the reference, for a contempt.

TITLE VIII. “

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

CHAPTER I.

ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF HORTGAGES.

Ste. 256. Court, power of, to direct sale of propety.
257. Surplus after sale, how disposed of.
258. Sale, when debt is not due, rebate of interest.

Sno. 256. There shall be but one action for recovery of
debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by a mortga e,
or lien, upon real estate, or personal property, which shall e
fcr enforcement of said lien, or mortgage, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. In such action, the court shall
have power before judgment, or decree, to direct a sale of the
encumbered property, or such part thereof as shall be necessary, and the application of the proceeds to the payment of
the costs and expenses of the sale, the costs of the writ, and
the amount due to the plaintifff. If it shall a pear from the
sheriff's return that there is a deficiency of snc proceeds, and
a balance still due to the plaintifff, the judgment shall be
docketed for such balance, and shall, from the time of such
docketing, be a lien upon the real estate of the judgment
debtor, and an execution may be issued by the clerk of the
court, as on other judgments against the roperty of the judgment debtor, to collect such ba ance or eliciency.

SEC. 257. If there be surplus money remaining after payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien or encumbrance,
with costs, the court may cause the same to be paid to the
person entitled to it, and, in the meantime, may direct it to be
deposited in court.

SEC. 258. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien or encumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon as sufiicient of the
property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs, the
sale shall cease; and afterwards, as often as more becomes
due, for rincipal or interest, the court may, on motion, order
more to e sold. But if the proper? cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, t e whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first instance, and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest where such rebate is

proper.

CHAPTER II.

ACTIONS FOB NUISANCE, WASTE AND WILFULL TBESPASS, IN CERTAIN CASES,
ON REAL PROPERTY.

Bio. 259. Nuisance donned, action for, judgment for.
260. Waste, action tor, judgment for.
261. Injurlng timber, ete., liability for.
263. Forcible or unlawful entry, judgment for.

SEC. 259. Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, or the obstruction of any highway, or the
closing of the channel of any stream used for boatin or rafting logs, lumber or timber, so as to interfere with t e comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the
subject of a.n action. Such action may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected or whose personal
enjoyment is lessoned by the nuisance; and by the judgment,

the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages

recovered.

Sun). 260. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant
or tenant in common of real property, commit waste thereon,
any person aggrieved by the waste may bring an action against

him therefore; m which action there may be judgment for
treble damages.

SEC. 261. Any erson who shall cut down or carry off any
wood or underwoog, tree or timber, or girdle or otherwise injure any tree or timber on the land of another erson, or on
the street or hi hway in front of any person's ouse, villa e
or city lot, or cu tivated grounds ; or on the commons or pub 1c
grounds of any city or town, or on the street or highway in
front thereof, without lawful authority, shall be liable to the
owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the
amount of damages which may be assessed therefore, in a civil
action, in any court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 262. N othin in the last section shall authorize the
recoverery of more 51811 the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated wood land for the repair of the public highway or bridge upon the land or adjoining it.

SEC. 263. If a person recover damages for a forcible or unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of, any building or any
cultivated real property, judgment may be entered for three
times the amount at which the actual damages are assessed.

CHAPTER III.

ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIHS TO REAL PROPERTY, AND MEIR
PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.

8:0. 264. Action by person in possession.
265. Cost, when not to be recovered.
266. Action, when right has terminated during pendency.
267. Improvements, value of to be allowed.
268. Court may allow survey to be made.
269. Order for survey.

270. Mortgage not to be deemed conveyance.
271. Court may enjoin indnry.

272. Damages for injury, who may recover.
273. Action for recovery not prejudiced by alienation.

Sec. 264. An action may be brought by any person inpoesession, by himself or his tenant, of real propert , against any
rson who claims an estate or interest therein verse to him,

1- the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate or
interest. .

SEC. 265. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his
answer, any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the plaintlif
shall not recover costs.

Sec. 266. In an ‘action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintifff shows a .right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it-appears that his right has terminated durin . the pending of the action, the verdict and
judgment sha1?be accordin to the fact; and the plaintifff may
recover darn es for withho ding the pro erty.

SEC. 267. en damages are claimed) for withholding the

pzoperty recovered, upon which permanent improvements
ve been made b a defendant, or those under whom he
claims, holding un er color of title adversely to the claims of
the ‘plaintifff, 111 good faith, the value of such improvements

shal be allowed as a set-off a ainst such damages.

Sac. 268. The court in w ich an action is pending for the
recovery of real property, or a judge thereof, may, on motion,
upon notice to either party, for good cause shown, grant an
order allowing to such party the right to enter upon the property, and make survey and measurement thereof, for the purpose of the action.

Sec. 269. The order shall describe the property, and a copy
thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant; and thereupon such party may enter upon the property, with necessary
surveyors antd assistants, and make sugh survey titlmld measurements; buti an unnecess in’ e one to e property,
he shall be liableytherefore. My Jury

SEO. 270. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed
a conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of
the mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale.

SEC. 271. The court may, by injunction, on good cause
shown, restrain the party in ossession from doing any act to
the in'ury of real ropert uring the foreclosure of a mortga e ereon; or a er a sa e on execution, before a conveyance.

so. 272. When real property shall have been sold on execution, the purchaser thereof, or an person who may have
succeeded to his intere t, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages or inju to the property by the tenant
in ssession, after sale and xefore possession is delivered
un er the conveyance.

SEC. 278. An action for the recovery of real property
Egainst a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by an

enation made by such person, either before or after the commencement of the action.

CHAPTER IV.

ACTIONS FOR THE UBURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE.

BIO. 274. Action to be brought by district attorney.
275. Complaint, what to state, defendant may be arrested.
276. J ndgment, how rendered.

eople of the nited States and of the

is own information, or upon the com, against any person who usurps, 1n‘ful y holds or exercises any public oiiice
y franchise within this territory. And

civil or milita ,
It shall be the ‘1 the district attorney to brin the action,

whenever he has F9350 to believe that any such 0 ce or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, or unlawfully held or
exercised by any person, or when he is directed to do so by
the governor.

Size. 275. Whenever such action is brought, the district
attorney, in addition to the statement of the cause of action,
ma also set forth in the complaint the name of the person
rig tly entitled to the office, with a statement of his right
thereto; and in such case, upon proof by affidavit. that the
defendant has received fees or emoluments belongin to the
office, and by means of his usurpation thereof, an or er may
be granted by a jud e of the supreme court, ora district judge,
for the arrest of sue defendant, and holding him to bai ; and
thereupon he may be arrested, and held to bail, in the same
manner, and with the same effect, and subject to the same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions Where the defendant is sub'ect to arrest.

SEC. 276. ln every such case, judgment may be rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the ' right of
the party alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of the
defendant, as 'ustice shall require.

SEC. 277. the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of
such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of oilice,
and executin such official bond as may be required by law,
to take upon%1imself the execution of the office.

81:0. 278. If the judgment be rendered upon the ri ht person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, e may
recover, by action, the damages which he shall have sustained
by reason of the usurpation of the office by the defendant.

SEC. 279. When several persons claim to be entitled tothe
same office or franchise, one action may be br )ught against all
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.

SEC. 280. When a defendant, against whom such action
has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding
into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise, or privilege,
jud ent shall be rendered that such defendant shall be exclu ed from the office, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay
the costs of the action. The court may also, in its discretion,
itngpga upon the defendant a fine, not exceeding five thousand
do ; which fine, collected, shall be paid into the treasury

of the territory.

TITLE IX.

APPEALS in own. scnons.
CHAPTER I.

APPEALS IN’ GINIRAL.

Bio. 281. Judgment, how received.
82. Order, how vacated.

283. Parties designated.
284. In what cases an appeal may be taken and how.

280. Statement, how annexed to record, what to contaln.
287. Waiver of.

288. Time may be enlarged.

289. How certlhed.

290. To be annexed to judgment roll.

291. Certain sections not to apply to appeals from order.

292. Appeals from judgment, whatmay be reviewed.
294. Duty of appellant.

Sm. 281. A judgment, or order, in a civil action, except
when expressl ma e final by this act, may be reviewed as
prescribed by t is title, and not otherwise.

SE0. 282. An order made out of court, without notice to
the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without notice,
by the jud e who made it, or may be vacated or modified on
notice, in t e manner in which other motions are made.

SEC. 283. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title. The party appealing shall be known
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.

SEO. 284. An appeal may be taken-First. From a final
judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in
the court in which the judgment is rendered, within six
months after the rendition of the judgment. Second. From
a judgment rendered on an appeal from the probate court,
within ninet days after the rendition of the judgment. Third.
From an or er granting or refusing a new trial or a rehearing;
from an order refusin to change the place of trial of an action or proceedin agar a motion is made therefore, in the
cases rovided by law, or on the ground that the judge is disquali ed from hearing or trying the same; from an order
granting or dissolving an injunction, and from an order refus1n to grant or dissolve an injunction, and from any special
or er made after final judgment, within sixty days after the
order is made and entered in the minutes of the court. This

section shall not extend to appeals to the district court from

orders or judgments of the probate courts, but shall extend

to 'udgments rendered in the district court on such appeals.
no. 285. The ap 1 shall be made by filing with the

clerk of the court Wlt Whom the judgment or order appealed '

from is entered, a notice statin the appeal from the same, or
some specific part thereof, an serving a copy of the notice
upon the adverse part , or his attorney.

SEC. 286. When t e party who as the right to ap eal
wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the record of
the jud ment or order, he shall, within twenty days after the
entry 0 such judgment or order, prepare such statement,
which shall contam the grounds u on which he intends to
rely on the appeal, and so much 0 the evidence as ma be
necessary to explain the grounds, and no more; and shal file
the same with the clerk. The respondent may, within five
days thereafter, prepare amendments to the statement, and
serve a copy on the ap llant. If such amendments are admitted, the statement s 11 be corrected accordin ly; and, if
not admitted, the statement and amendments s all be presented to the jud e who tried or heard the case, upon notice
of two days to e respondent, and a true statement shall
thereupon be settled by such judge.

SEO. 287. If the party shall omit to make a statement
within the time above lunited, he shall be deemed to have
waived his right thereto; and when a statement is made, and
the parties shall omit, within the several times above limited,
the one party to propose amendments, the other to notify an
appearance before the judge, the shall be respectively
deemed, the former to have agree to the statement as proposed, and the latter to have agreed to the amendment as
proposed, and no settlement of the statement, or certificate
thereto b the 'udge shall be re uired.

SEC. 2 8. Tlhe several perio s of time above limited may
be enlarged upon good cause shown by the judge before whom
the cause was tried.

SEC. 289. The statement, when settled b the judge, shall
be signed by him, with his certificate that t e same has been
allowed and is correct; when the statement is agreed upon
by the parties, they or their attorneys shall sign the same, with
their certificate that it has been a reed upon by them and is
correct. In either case, when set ed or agreed upon, it shall
be filed with the clerk.’

SEC. 290. The clerk shall annex the statement, if the appeal be from a final 'udgment, to the judgment roll; it‘ the
appeal be from an or r, to such order, or a copy thereof.

SEC. 291. The provisions of the last precedgif sections
shall not apply to appeals taken from an order m e upon an
affidavit filed, but such affidavit shall be annexed to the order

,in the place of the statement mentioned in those sections.

81:0. 292. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review any intermediate order involving the merits, and
necessarily affecting the jud ent.

Size. 293. Upon an app from a jud ent or order, the
ap ellate court may reverse, affirm or mo 'fy the judgment or
or er ap ealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice
of appea , and as to any or all of the arties; and may set
aside, or coniirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon such jud ent or order; and
may, if necessary or proper, order a re caring. When the
ju gment or order is reversed or modified, -the appellate court
may make complete restitution of all pro erty and rights lost
by the erroneous judgment or order; an when it appears to
the appellate court that the appeal was made for delay, it may
add to the costs such damages as may be just.

SEO. 294. On an appeal from a final jud ent, the appellant shall furnish the court with a copy 0 the notice of apeal, the judgment roll, and the statement annexed  there
be one), certified by the clerk to be a correct copy. On appeal from a judgment rendered on an appeal, or from an
order, the appellant shall furnish the court with a copy of the
notice of appeal, the judgment or order appealed from, and a
copy of the papers used in the hearing of the court belowsuc copies to e certified by the clerk to be correct. If any
written opinion be placed on file, on rendering the judgment
or makin the order in the court below, a copy shall be furnished. the appellant fail to furnish the requisite papers,
the appeal may be dismissed.

CHAPTER II.

APPEALS 1'0 THE SUPBEXE COURT FROM THE DISTRICT COURT.

BIO. 295. In what cases may be taken.

296. Undertaking of appellant.

297. Same, when judgment stayed by appeal.
301. Appeal perfected stays further proceedings.
302. Undertaking In one of several instruments.
803. Jnstilleation of auretiea neeeuary. '

8:0. 304. Appeal. how perfected in cases not provided for.
805. Hearing of appeal.
306. Judgment on appeal.

S20. 295. An appeal may be taken to the supreme court
from the district courts in the following cases: First. From a
final judgment rendered in action or special proceeding, commenced in those courts or brought into those courts from another court. Second. From an order granting or refusin a
new trial or rehearing; from an order refusin to change t e
place of trial of an action or proceeding, a er a motion is
made therefore, in the cases rovided by law, or on the ground
that a judge is disqualified rom hearing or trying the same;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction, and from
any special order made after final judgment.

SEC. 296. To render an alipeal effectual for any pu ose,
in any case, a written underta ing in not less than three undred dollars shall be executed on the part of the appellant, by
at least two sureties, to the effect that the a pellant will pay
all damages and costs which may be awarde against him on
the appeal; or that sum shall be deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event
of the appeal. Such undertaking shall be filled, or such deposit m c with the clerk, within live days after the notice of
appeal is filed.

Sac. 297. If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing the payment of mone , it shall not sta the execution
of the judgment or order, un ess a written un ertaking be executed on the art of the a pellant, by two or more sureties,
statin their ace of resi ence and occupation, to the effect
that t ey are ouud in double the amount named in the judgment or order, that if the jud ent or order appealed from, or
any part thereof, be afiim-me§:nthe appellant shall pay the
amount directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the

art of such amount as to which the judgment or order shall
e affirmed, if affirmed onl in part; and all damages and

costs which shall be awarde against the appellant upon the
appeal.

B30; 298. If the 'udgment or order appealed from direct
the assignment or de ivery of documents or personal property,
the execution of the judgment or order shal not be sta ed by

appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or de ivered
be placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the court

may a point; or, unless an undertaking be entered into on the
part 0 the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such
amount as the court or judge thereof, or probate judge, may

direct, to the efect that the appellant will obey the order of
the appellate court upon the appeal.

SEC. 299. If the judgment or order appealed from direct
the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment or order shall not he stayed by the appeal,
until the instrument is executed and deposited Wll’.ll the clerk
with whom the judgment or order is entered, to abide the judgment of the a pellate court.

Size. 300. l) the judgment or order appealed from direct
the sale or deliver of possession of real property, the execution of the same s all not be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, with two or
more sureties, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer to be
committed any waste thereon; and that, if the judgment be
affirmed, he will pa the value of the use and occupation of
the property, from c time of the appeal until the delivery of
the possession thereof, pursuant to the jud ment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be hxed by the judge o the court by which
the jud cut was rendered or order made, and which shall be
specific in the undertaking. When the judgment is for the
sale of mortgaged premises and the payment of a deficiency

arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for
the payment of such deficiency.

SEC. 301. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided by
the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further
proceedings in the court below, upon the jud ment or order
appealed from, or upon the matter embraced t erein; but the
court below may proceed upon any other matter included in

the action, and not affected y the judgment or order a pealed
from. And the court below may, in its discretion, dpispense
with or limit the security required by the said sections, when
the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other
person acting in another's right.

SEC. 302. The undertaking prescribed by sections two
hundred and ninety-six, two hundred and ninety-seven, two
hundred and ninety-eight and three hundred, may be in one
instrument or several, at the option of the appellant.

SEC. 303. An undertaking upon an a eal shall be of no
effect, unless it be accompanied by the a vit of the sureties,
that they are each worth the amount specified therein, over
and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of propertiy exempt from execution; except where the judgment excee s three thousand dollars, and the uudertakin g on appeal is
executed by more than two sureties, they may state in their
affidavit that they are severally worth amounts less than that

expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two sumcient sureties. The adverse party may,
however, except to the sufliciency of the sureties within five
days after the filing of the undertaking; and unless they or
other sureties justity before a judge of t e court below, or a
probate judge, or the county clerk, within five days thereafter,
upon notice to the adverse party, to the amount stated in
their aiiidavit, the appeal shall be regarded as if no such
undertaking had been given ;' and in all cases where an undertaking is required on appeal, by the provisions of this chapter
of this act, a deposit in the court below of the amount of the
judgment a pealed from, and three hundred dollars in addition, shall e e uivalent to filing the undertaking; and in
all cases, the un ertaking or deposit may be waived, by the
written consent of the respondent. '

Sec. 804. In cases not provided for in sections two hundred and ninety-seven, two hundred and ninety-eight, two
hundred and ninety-nine, and three hundred, the perfecting
of an appeal, by giving the undertaking and the justification
of the sureties thereon, if required, or making the deposit
mentioned in section two hundred and ninet -six, shall stay
proceedin in the court below upon the ju gment or order
a pealed rom; except, that where it directs the sale of perisha e pro erty, the court below may order the roperty to be
sold, an the proceeds thereof deposited, to a ide the judgment of the appellate court.

SEC. 305. Appeals in the supreme court may be brought
to a hearing by either party, upon a notice of three days to
the opposite party. Before the argument, each party shall

furnish to the other a copy of his p‘oints, and authorities, and
file one copy thereof with the cler

Size. 806. When judgment is rendered upon the appeal,
it shall be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to the
clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed from is entered. case of appeal from the judgment,
the clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment
of the supreme court on the docket against the original entry.
In cases of appeal from an order, the clerk shall enter at
length in the record of the court the certificate received, and
minute a inst the entry of the order appealed from a reference to t e certificate, with a brief statement that such order
had been affirmed, reversed, or modihed, as the case may be,
by the supreme court, on appeal.

CHAPTER III.

APPIAL8 TO THE DISTRICT COUKP FROI TIE PROBATE COCIIP.

B80. 307. In what cases taken.
308. When to be token.

309. Hearing.

SEC. 307. An appeal may be’ taken from a probate court
to the district court of the district in which the probate court
is held, in the following cases: First. From an order or decree admitting a will to probate, or refusing the same.

Second. From an order setting apart property, or making an
allowance for the widow or children. hird. From anorder

granting letters testamentary, or of administration, or appointing a guardian of an infant, or of an insane person, or
of a person incompetent to manage his own property, or refusing to grant such letters, or to make such a ointment, or
making such letters or appointment. Fourth. rom an order
directing the sale or conveyance of real property. Fifth.
From an order or decree by which a debt, claim, legacy, or
distributive share is allowed, or payment thereof directed, or
b which such allowance or direction is refused. Sixth.
Fyrom an order made on the settlement of an executor, administrator, or guardian. Seventh. And from any other final
judgment or order made by said court in any case, civil or
criminal.

SEC. 808. The a peal shall be taken within thirty days
aflzeli; the order or ecree appealed from is entered with the
c er .

SEO. 309. Appeals from the probate court shall be brought
to a hearing at the earliest period practicable. For a failure
to prosecute an appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to
a hearin , the district court may order the appeal to be

dismisse .

CHAPTER IV.

APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT COURTS FROM JUSTIOES’ COURTS.

B30. 310. How taken and tried.
311. When heard on statement of case, new trial, dismissed, judgment.

SEC. 310. Judgments in all civil cases rendered by justices

may be reviewed by the district court. When the appeal is
taken on questions of law alone, it shall be heard on a statement of the case prepared as prescribed in title nine of this
act. When the appeal is taken on questions of fact, the action
shall be tried anew in the district court, and either party may,
on such trial, demand a jury.

SEC. 311. Upon an appeal heard u on a statement of the
ease, the district court may review al orders aiecting the
judgment appealed from, and may set aside, or connrm, or
mo 11y, any or all of the proceedings subsequent to or dependent upon said judgment, and may, if necessary or proper,
order a new trial. For a failure to prosecute an appeal, or
unnecessary delay in bringin it to a hearing, the district
court, after notice, may order t e appeal to be d1smissed.

TITLE X.
CHAPTER I.

or wnrrs or" ERROR.

Bus. 312. Judgment, etc., re-examined on writ of error.

313. Time for prosecution of writ, proviso.

314. When deemed issued.

315. Notice to defendant in error, form of.

316. How served, return of.
. Transcript of, what to contain.
. Assigning errors and filing joinders.
. Judgment, etc., complained of, may be amrmed or reversed.
. Additional undertaking to pay judgment. '
. Undertaking for writ of error, form of.
. Death of party after tiling undertaking.

. Prosecution of writ of error, reversal of judgment.
. Not to afoot title of property sold.

. Supreme court, decision of.
. Questions of law on special verdicts, adjourned to the supreme court.

.SE_c. 312. Every final judgment, order, or decision of a
d1s_tr1ct court, except in chancery, may be re-examined upon a
writ of error in the same court, for error in fact; in the suprcgme court, fgr error in law.

no. 313; ve' such writ shall be prosecuted within six
months, and not agar. But if the party entitled to have such

‘shall issue a notice to the

writ shall be absent from the territory, and shall not have been
personally served with process, nor a peared to the action, or
If such party he an infant, or marrie woman, or imprisoned,
or insane, then such writ may be prosecuted within two years
from the removal of such disability, and not after: Provided,
That the absence from the territory shall not entitle the party
to a longer time than live years; the time limited shall include the day on which the jud lent is rendered, or the
order or decision is made, or on w ich the disability ceases.
SEC. 314. A writ of error shall be deemed to have issued
on the day on which the plaintifff in error shall file in the
oliice of the clerk of the district court, where the record is, a
written undertaking, executed by two sureties, to be approved
by the clerk, for the payment of all the costs of such proceeding; and it shall not be necessary, in any stage of the proceedings, actually to sue out the writ of error.
SEC. 315. On the filing of such undertaking, the clerk
efendant in error, under the seal
of the court, specifying the court in which, and the time when
he is to appear to protect his interests; and if the prcecipe
direct the writ of error to be made returnable to the supreme
court, he shall send thither a transcript of the record under
the seal of the court; such notice may be, as nearly as applicable, in the following form:

TERRITORY or IDAHO,
County of .

To C D : You are hereby notified that
A. B. has sued out a writ of error from the supreme court, to

reverse the decision of the district court of said county, given

in your favor against the said A. B. at the term of’

18-—, and unless you appear in the said supreme court on

the Monday of , 18-, the cause will be heard in
your absence.

Witness the seal of the district court, the —— day of
, 18-.

[Seal.] E. F., Clerk.

Sec. 316. The notice may be served on the defendant in
error, or his attorney of record, by any sheriff within his
county, and shall be by delivering him a copy thereof, or it
may be served by any other disinterested person ; and the return of the sheriff indorsed thereon, or the affidavit of such
other disinterested person, shall be evidence thereof, and if
served ten days before the return day, the cause may be heard

at that term. If returned not found, the court of error may
make such order for the service or publication of notice, as
shall appear most likely, in the particular case, to convey
knowledge of the proceeding to the defendant in error, and
may then proceed as if the notice had been personally served.

SEC. 317. The transcript shall contain a copy of the writ
and return, the pleadings, the journal entries and the bills of
exception, the exception and return, and such other matters as
the court or judge shall have ordered to be made a part of the
record. Either party may have a certiorari to supply any
diminution of the record.

SEC. 318. The court of error may aiiix the time for’ assigning errors and filing joinders. If errors in law be assigned,
no joinders shall be necessary; one or more errors in fact may
be assigned, and the defendant may put in the common joinder as a demurrer thereto, or may traverse or confess, and

avoid the facts assigned for error, and a separate issue shall be
made on each.

SEO. 319. The judgment or other matter complained of,
may be afiirmed, or may be reversed or set aside, in whole or
in part, or may be modiiied, or a different jud ent or order
may be substituted for that complained of, an the cause may
be remitted to the district court for such further proceedings
as the supreme court by mandate shall direct. Execution may
issue from the supreme court. or its 'udgments may be executed by the distrlct court, on a man te for that purpose.

Size. 320. If the undertaking for costs contain an additional
undertaking to pay the 'udgment, if affirmed, and damages,
or an new and modified ju ment that may be given against
the praintiif in error, then algfurther proceedings, b way of
executing the judgment, shall forthwith cease until the further

_ order of the court of error. In such case, if the judgment be

ailirmed or modified, or any new jud ment be given against
the laintiff in error, damages may gbe awarded to the defen ant in error, not exceeding ten per cent. upon the amount
of the judgment, exclusive of interests and costs, if it manifestly appears that the proceeding was without probable cause
and merely for delay. And in cases where judgment is rendered amst the plaintifff in error, judgment shall also be
renderelg against the sureties in the undertaking, to the extent
of their liability, and execution shall issue against themaccordingly.

Sec. 821. The undertaking for a writ of error may be in
the following form:

_A—— B—— District Court, County of —— ; Judgment
vs. . '
C.— D—— at -—— term, 18—.

We romise to pay all costs that may be awarded against
A—— — on his writ of error in this cause, (and also the
judgment, if affirmed) and the damages, or any new or- modilied judgment that may be given against him. E. F.

G. H.

Sac. 322. If, after the undertakin be filed, either party
shall die, or, being a single woman, s all marry, the proper

persons may, on motion, be made parties, and the causes shall
proceed to judgment. SEC. 323. Any persons who may be a party or privy in any
judgment, order, or decision, ma prosecute a writ of error to
reverse the same, and the reversa shall enure to the benefit of
all arties and privies therein; and no other party or privy
sha 1 afterwards prosecute a writ of error for the same cause.

SEO. 324. The reversal of a judgment, order or decision,
shall not affect the title of property sold upon an execution
issued upon such jud ment, order or decision, if such propert be purchased at t e sale by a stranger; but if purchased

y t e 'ud ent creditor, the plaintifff in error may bring an
action or e recovery thereof, and the court may award restitution or render such other judgment as justice shall require.

SEC. .325. When the supreme court shall be equally divided‘

in opinion, the cause shall stand continued until all the judges
are present.

SEC. 826. Whenever, on the trial‘ of an action at law, in
the district court, it shall be found to turn on important or
doubtful princi les of law, the court may direct a special verdict to be foun ; and in all cases the parties may agree upon
the facts—and such agreement, in writing, signed by the parties or their attorneys, shall be made part of their record;
and all questions of law arising on special verdicts, agreed
cases, motions for new trial and all others in any manner
arising in the district courts, in law or equity, may be adjourned into the supreme court for decision; and the supreme
court may give jud ent, or remand the cause, or make any
order according to t e law and justice of the case.

TITLE XI.

MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS.

‘CHAPTER I.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTOBS.

81m. 327. How those not served may be bound by judgment.
328. Summons to show cause.
330. Answer and defense.
331. _When defendant denies liability.
332. Issues formed, how tried.

SEC. 327. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation,
by proceeding as provided in section thirty-two, those who
were not originally served with the summons and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why they
should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner
as though they had been originally served with the summons.

Sec. 328. The summons, as provided in the last section,
shall describe the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by it, and
shall be served in the same manner and returnable within the
same time as the original summons. It shall not be necessary
to file a new complaint.

S130. 329. The summons shall be accompanied by an aflip
davit of the plaintifff, his agent, representative or attorney,
that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied,
and shall specify the amount due thereon.

SEC. 830. Upon such summons, the defendant may answer
within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or
setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently,
or he may deny his liability on the obligation upon which the
judgment was recovered, except a discharge from such liability
by e statute of limitation.

SEC. 331. If the defendant in his answer deny the judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with the afhdavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitue the written allegations in the case; if
he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and
judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the
answer, shall constitute such written allegations.

81:0. 832. The issue formed ma be tried as in other cases;
but when the defendant denies, in is answer, any liability on
the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, if a
verdict e found against him, it shall be for the amount renl1laining uusatisfie on such original judgment, with interest
t ereon.

CHAPTER II.

OONFESBION O!‘ JUDGXENT WITHOUT ACTION.

B30. 333. lay be entered.
334.. How entered.
336. To be filed.

Sac. 833. A judgment by confession may be entered without action, either for money due or to become due, orto secure
any person against contingent liabilit on behalf of the degalndant, or both, in the manner prescri ed by this chapter ot

is act.

SEC. 334. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by
the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
First. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified
sum. Second. If it be for money due or to become due, it
shall state concisely the fact out of which it arose, and shall
show that the sum confessed therefore is justly due or to become due. Third. If it be for the purpose of securing the
plaintifff against a contin ent liability, it shall state concisely
the facts constituting the iability, and shall show that the sum

confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
SEC. 335. The statement shall be filed with the clerk of the

court in which the judgment is to be entered, who shall endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a judgment of
such court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs ;
the statement and aiiidavit, with the judgment endorsed, shall
thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER III.
sumnrrme A corrrnovsnsr wrrnour ACTION.

830. 336. How controversy may be submitted.

Bio. 337. Judgin nt, li tend.
338. How eiiforcclir ‘n

SEO. 336. Parties to a question in difference’ which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, Without action, agree
upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy

depends, and present a submission of the same to any court,

which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought;
but it must ap ear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real
and the procee ings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall theroupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
de ending. .

£120. 337. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, as in other cases, but without costs, for any proceeding
prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the
judgment, shall constitute the judgment roll.

SEC. 338. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall be in the
same manner subject to appeal.

CHAPTER IV.

03' ARBITRATION 8.

8:0. 339. What may be submitted.
3&0. How submission made, revocation of, award, how enforced.

342. Power of arbitrators.

343. Proceedings of arbitrators.

844. Award, how made, enect ‘of.

345. In what case vacated.

346. In what case modmed.

347. Appeal.

348. Submission revoked, amount recoverable.

81-30. 339. Persons capable of contracting may submit to
arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of a
civil action between them, except a question of title to r_eal
property in fee or for life. This qualification shall not include
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real

P’°BPe"*3'- . . . . . . .
1-20. 340. The submission to arbitration shall be in writing,
and may be to one or more persons.

Sac. 341. It may be stipulated in the submission, that it

be entered as an order of the district court, for which purpose
it shall be filed with the clerk of such court in the district
Where the parties, or one of them reside. The clerk shall thereupon enter in his register of actions a note of submission, with
the names of the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date
of the submission, when filed, and the time limited by the

' submission, if any, Within which theaward shall be made.
When so entered, the submission shall not be revoked except
by the consent of both parties. The arbitrators may be compelled by the court to make an award, and the award may be
enforced by the ‘court, in the same manner as a judgment. If
the submission be not made an order of the court, it may be
revoked at any time before the award is made.

SEC. 342. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjlourn from time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to ear the allegations and evidence
of the parties, and to make an award thereon. a “

SEC. 343. All the arbitrators shall meet and act together
during the investigation ; but when met, a ma'ority may determine an question. Before acting, they shall be sworn before an o cer authorized to admimster oaths, faithfully and
fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the
parties in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make
a just award according to their understanding.

SEC. 344., The award shall be in writing, and signed by the
arbitrators, or a majority of them, and dehvered to the parties.
When the submission is made an order of the court, the award
shall be filed with the clerk, and a note thereof made in his
register. After the expiration of five days from the ‘dllin g of
the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing} an
aiiidavit, showing that notice of filing the award has een
served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days
prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry
of judgment has been served, the award shall be entered by
the clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have the
effect of a jud ment.

Sac. 345. e court on motion, may vacate the award
upon either of the following grounds, and may order a new
hearing before the same ar itrators, or not, in its discretion :
First. That it was procured by corruption or fraud. Second.
That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hear1ng, or refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted
impro erl , in a manner in which the rights of the party were
preju ice . Third. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers
1n making their award; or, that they refused, or improperly omitted to consider a part of the matter submitted to
them '; or, that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed.

SEC. 346. The court ma , on motion, modify or correct the
award, where it appears: irst. That there was a miscalculae
tion in ii res, upon which it was made, or that there is amistake in t e description of some person or property therein.
Second. When a art of the award is upon matters not submitted, which can e se arated from other arts, and does not
affect the decision on t e matter submitte . Third. When
the award, though imperfect in form, could have been amended
if it had been a vereict, or the imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 347. The dcision u on the motion shall be subject to
appeal or writ of error, in e same manner as an order which
is subject to appeal or writ of error in civil actions; but the
judgment entered before a motion is made shall not be subject
to appeal or writ of error.

SEC. 348 If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and
an action be brought therefore, the amount to be recovered
shall only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for
and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER V.

OFFER OF THE DEFENDANT T0 COMPROIIISE THE WHOLE OR A PART OF AN ACTION.

SEC. 349. The defendants may, at any time before the trial
or judgment, serve upon the plaintifff‘ an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him for,the sum or pro e1-%, or to
the effect therein specified. If the plaintifff accept tll1)e 0 er, and
give notice thereof within five days he may file the summons,
complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice of acceptance,
and the clerk shall enter judgment accordin ly. If the notice
of acceptance be not given, the offer shall%)e deemed withdrawn, and shall not be 'ven in evidence; and if the plaintifff
fail to recover a more avora-ble judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defendant's costs from the time
of the offer,

TITLE XII.

01' WITNIBSIS AND THEIR XANNER 0!‘ OBTAINING IVIDINGI.

CHAPTER I.

0? WITNESSES.

8:0. 350. Religious belief not to disqualify, interest when to disqualify.

351. Test of.
352. Who shall not be witnesses.

353. Husband and wife cannot be witnesses against each other.
354.. Attorney not to disclose communication of client.

355. Clergyman not to disclose confession.

356. Physician not to disclose information given by patient.

357. Public officers not to disclose, etc.
358. Judge or juror may be witneu.

359. Interpreters.

Size. 350. All persons, without exception, otherwise than
as specified in this chapter of this act, may be witnesses in
any action or proceeding. N 0 person ofiered as a witness
shall be excluded on account of his opinions on matters of religious belief, nor shall any person be excluded on account of
his interest in the event of the action or proceeding, except
in the following cases: First. When he is a party to the action or proceeding, or the action or proceeding is rosecuted
or defended for his immediate benefit. Second. hen his
interest is a present, certain, and vested interest.

SEC. 351. The true test of the interest of a person, which
shall render him incom etent as a witness, shall be, that he
will gain or lose by the ‘met legal operation and effect of the
judgment, or that the record of the judgment, will be legal
evi ence for or against him in some other action; but nothing
in this or the last section, shall prevent a party calling as a
witness the adverse party to the action, or a person whose interest is adverse, nor a art being a witness in the case mentioned in section three un ed and ei ht .

Size. 352. The following persons s all not be witnesses:
First. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. Second. Children under ten
years of age, who, in the opinion of the court, appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the facts res ecting which
they are examined, or of relating them truly. hird. Chinamen or persons having one-half or more of China blood;
Indians, or persons having one-half or more of Indian blood,

and negroes, or persons having one-half or more of negro
blood, in an action or proceeding to which a white person is a
part . Fourth. Persons against whom judgment has been
ren ered upon a conviction or felony, unless (pardoned by the
governor, or such judgment has been reverse on appeal.

SEC. 858. A husband shall not be a witness for or against
his wife, nor a wife a witness for or a inst her husband; nor

can either, during the marriage or r, be, without the con- .

sent of the other, examined as to anycommunication made by
one to the other, during the marna e. But this exception
shall not apply to an action or procee ing by one against the
other. Sec. 354. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without th
consent of his client, be examined as a witness to any communication made by the client .to him, or his advice given
thereon in the course of professional employment.

SEC. 855. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the
consent of the person making t e confession, be examined as
a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs.

SEC. 856. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not, without
the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness as to any

information acquired in attending the patient, which was
e

necessary to enable him to prescri or act for the patient.

Sac. 857. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to communications made to him in oiiicial confidence,
when the public interest would suffer by the disclosure.

Sac. 858. The judge himself, or any juror may be called as
a witness by either party; but in such case it shall be in the
discretion of the court or judge to order the trial to be postpo3e_d or suspended, and to take place before another judge
an jury. Size. 859. When a witness does not understand and speak

the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret
for him.

CHAPTER H.

[A3323 0!‘ COHPEIJJNG THE ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES, AND THEIR RIGHTS
ARD DUTIES.

Etc. 360. Snbpcana, duos: team», when not required to attend.

8:0. 361. Subpoena, how issued and how served.
364. Person present need not be subpcened.
365. Duty of witness.
366. What questions witness must answer.
368. Penalty for disobedience to subpmna.
369. Failure to attend may be arrested.
370. Confinement in jail, testimony, how taken.
373. Witness exonerated from arrest.
874.. Liability of odioer making arrest.

Sue. 360. A subpuana ma require not only the attendance
of the person to whom it is irected, at a particular time and
place, to testify as a witness, but may also reqpire him to bring
any books, documents or other things under is control, to be
used as evidence. No person shall be required to attend as a
witness before any court, judge, justice, or any other oiiicer
out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be
lqss thlan thirty miles from his place of residence to the place
0 tria .

Sac. 361. The subpoena shall be issued as follows: First.
To require attendance before a court, or at trial of an issue
therein; it shall be issued in the name and under the seal of
the court before which the attendance is required, or in which
the issue is pending. Second. To require attendance out of
court, before a judge, justice or any other officer authorized to
administer oaths or take testimony in any matter,‘ under the
laws of this territory, it shall be issuedby the judge, justice or
other ofiieer before whom the attendance is required. Third.
To require attenandance before a commissioner appointed to
take testimony by a court of any other state, territory or
county, it may be issued by any judge or justice of the peace,
in places within their respective jurisdictions, with like power
to enforce attendance, and upon certificate of contumacy to
said court, to punish for contempt of their process, as such
judge or justice could exercise if the subpoena directed the
attendance of the witness before their courts in a matter
pending therein. ’

Sac. 362. The service of a subpoena shall be made by delivering a copy thereof to the witness, or by leaving such copy
with some suitable person at the place of his abode, giving or
offering to him at the same time, If demanded b him, the fees
to which he is entitled for travel to and from t e place designated, and one day’s attendance there. Such service may be
made by any white male person over eighteen years of age ;
but when made by any other person than an oiiicer authorized

to serve process, it shall be proved by the aiiidavit of the person making it. .

SIG. 863. If a witness be concealed in a building or vessel,
so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon him, any court
or jud e or any officer ‘issuing the sub na may, u n proof
by am avit of the concealment, and o the materia ity of the
witness, make an order that the sheriff of the county serve the
subpoena, and the sheriff shall serve it accordin ly, and for
that purpose may break into the building or vesse where the
witness 18 concealed.

SEC. 364, A person present in court, or before a judicial
odicer, may be required to testify, in the same manner as if he
wéaire in attendance upon a subpmna issued by such court or
0 cer. .

830. 365. It shall be the duty of a witness, duly served
with a sub oena, to attend at the time appointed, with any
papers un er his control required by the subpoena, to answer
allpertinent and legal questions, and, unless sooner discharged,
to remain until the testimony is closed.

Sac. 366. A witness shall answer questions legal:and ertinent to the matter in issue, though his answers may estab ish
a claim against himself; but he need not 've answer which
shall have a tendency to subject him to punis ment for a felony,
nor need he 've answer which shall have a direct tendencyto
degrade his c aracter, unless it be to the very fact in issue, or
to a fact from which the fact in issue would be presumed; but
a witness shall answer as to the fact of his previous conviction
for felony.

SEC. 367. Disobedience to a subpcsna, or a refusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or
deposition when required, may be punished as a contempt by
the court, or officer issuing the subpcnna, or requiring the witness to be sworn ; and if the witness be a party, his complaint
may be dismissed, or his answer stricken out.

SEC. 368. A witness disobeying a subpoena, shall also forfeit
to the party aglgrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all
dam es whic he may sustain by the failure of the witnessto
atten ; which forfeiture and damage may be recovered in a
civil action. .

S120. 369. In case of failure of awitness to attend, the court
or oiiicer issuin the subpasna, upon proof of the service
thereof, and of t e failure of the witness, may issue a warrant
to the sheriff of the county to arrest the witness and brin

him before the court or oiiicer where his attendance is requir . .

SEC. 370. If the Witness be a prisoner, confined in jail
or prison within this territory, for any other cause than a
sentence for felony, an order for his examination in the prison
upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production

before acourt or omer for the purpose of being orally examined,
may be made as follows: First. By the court itself, in which
the action or special proceeding is pending. Second. By a

judge of the supreme court, district court,‘ or probate judge of

the county where the action or proceeding is pending, if before
a judge or other erson out of court.

SEC. 371. Suc order can only be made upon atiidavit,
showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
e ected from the witness, and its materiality. _

xgiszc. 372. If the witness be imprisoned in the county where
the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause other than
a sentence for a felony, his production may be re uired. In
all other cases, his examination, when allowed, sha 1 be taken
upon deposition.

SEC. 373. Every person who has been in good faith served
with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge,
commissioner, referee or other person, in a cause where the
disobedience of the witness may be punished as a contempt,
shall be exonerated from arrest, in a civil action, while goin
to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, an
returnin therefrom.

SEC. 3 4. The arrest of a witness, contra to the last section, shall be void; but an officer shall not e liable to the

party for making the arrest, in ignorance of the facts creating
the exoneration, but shall be liable for any subsequent detention of the party, if such party claim the exemption, and make
an affidavit statin : First. That he has been served with a
subpcsna to atten as a Witness before a court, officer or other
person; specifyin the same, the place of attendance, and the
action or rlproce ing in which the subpoena was issued.

Second. hat he has not been thus served by his own procurement with the intention of avoiding an arrest. Third.
That he is, at the time, going to the place of attendance, or
returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the
subpoena. The affidavit may be taken by the oiiicer, and shall
exonergte him from liability for discharging the witness when
arreste .

CHAPTER III.

0!‘ THE EXAHINATION OP PARTIES TO AN ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND OF P33‘
SONS FOR WHOSE IIIHEDIATE BENEFIT SUCH ACTION OB PROCEEDING
18 PBOSBCUTED OR DBFENDID.

BIO. :75. Discovery under oath, how bad.

Bio. 376. Party may be examined at instance of adverse party.
377. lay be rebutted.

378. Party refusing to testify judgment go against him.
379. Examination of witness in his own behalf.

380. When parties may be witneu in own behalf.

SEC. 375. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in
aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceeding, shall be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be
had on behalf the adverse party, except in the manner provided
in this act.

SEC. 376. A party to an action or proceeding may be
examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party or
of any one of several adverse parties; and for that purpose
may be compelled, in the same manner and subject to the

same mle of examination, as any other witness, to testify at the
trial, and he may be examined on a commission.

Sec. 377. The examination of apparty thus taken may be
rebutted by adverse testimony.

SEC. 378. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial
or to give his deposition before trial, or upon a commission,
when required, his complaint, answer or rep y may be stricken
out and Judgment taken against him; and he may be, also, in

the discretion of the court, proceeded against as 1n other cases
for contempt.

Sec. 379. A arty examined byan adverse party, as in this
chapter provide , may be examined on his own behalf in
respect to any matter pertinent to the issue; but if he testify
to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him
by the adverse party‘, or necessary to explain or qualify his
answer thereto, or 'scharge, when his answer would charge
himself, such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on

his own behalf, in respect to such new matter, and shall be so
received.

Sac. 380. A person for whose immediate benefit the action
is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action,
may be examined as a witness, in the same manner and subject to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as

a party. V
Sac. 381. Parties may be witnesses on their own behalf,

when the action is brought for the settlement of or in relation

to the business and accounts of a co-partnership] then existing,
or which had previously existed etween t em, to prove

vouchers or items of account under one hundred dollars.

CHAPTER IV.

ON AFFIDAVITS.

Sac. 382. How taken.
383. In another state or territory.

384. In a foreign country.
385. How certified when taken out of territory.

SEC. 382. An affidavit to be used before any court, judge, or
officer of this territory, may be taken before any judge or clerk
of any court, or any justice of the peace or notary public in
this territory.

SEC. 383. An affidavit in another state or territory of the
United States, to be used in this territory, shall be taken before
a commissioner a ointed by the governor of this territory to
take affidavits ancfge ositions in such other state or territory,
or before the judge o a court of record having a seal.

SEC. 384. An affidavit taken in a foreign country, to be
used in this territory, shall be taken before an embassador,
minister, or consul of the United States, or before any judge
of a court of record, having a seal, in such foreign country.

SEC. 385. When an affidavit is taken before a judge of a
court in another state or territory, or a foreign country, the
genuineness of the signature of the judge, the existence
of the court, and the fact that such judge is a member thereof,
shall be certified by the clerk of the court under the seal
thereof‘.

CHAPTER V.

DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS TERRITORY.

Sec. 386. In what cases may be taken, and how.
388. Manner of examinatlon, and transmission.
389. May be used by either party.

Sec. 386. The testimony of a witness of this territory may
be_taken b deposition in an action, at any time after the
service of e summons or the appearance of the defendant;
and in a special proceeding, after a question of fact has arisen

therein, in the following cases: First. When the witness is
a party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended. Second. When the witness resides out of the county
in which his testimony is to be used. Third. When the witness is about to leave the county where the action is to be tried,
and will probably countinue absent when the testimony is
required. Fourth. When the witness, otherwise liable to
attend the trial, is nevertheless too iniirm to attend.

Sec. 387. Either party may have the deposition taken of a
witness in this territory, before any judge or clerk, or any
justice of the peace, or notary public in this territory, on
servingupon the adverse party previous notice of the time
and place of examination, together with a copy of affidavit,
showing that the case is one mentioned in the last section, at
any time after the service of summons, or the ap earance of
defendant, or during the fort days immediate y after the
service of the summons by pu licatiou has been completed,
and at any thereafter, when the defendant has not a peared,
the notice required b this section ma be served on t e clerk
of the court where t e action is pen ing. Such notice shall
be at least five days, in addition, one day for every twenty-five
miles of the distance of the place of examination from the
residence of the person to whom the notice is given, unless for
a cause shown, a judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time.
When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall
be served with the notice. '

SEC. 388. Either party may attend such examination, and
put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The
deposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the
witness, and corrected b him in any particular, if desired;
it shall then be subscri ed by the witness, certified by the
judge or officer taking the deposition, enclosed in an envelope
or wrapper, sealed, and directed to the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending, or to such erson as the parties
in writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the judge
or officer to the clerk or such person, ..or transmitted through
the mail, or by some safe private o portunity ; and thereu on
such deposition may be used by eitgler party upon the tria or
other proceeding, against any party glvin or receiving the
notice, subject to all legal exce tions. g.But if the parties
attend at the examination, no 0 jection to the form of an
interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was
stated at the time of the examination. If the deposition be
taken by reason of the absence or intended absence from the
county of the witness, or because he is too infirm to attend,

proof by affidavit or oral testimony shall be made at the trial,
that the witness continues absent, or infirm, to the best of the
deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken
ma be also read in case of the death of the witness.

EC. 389. When a deposition has been once taken, it may
be read in any sta e of the same action or proceeding by either

party, and shall en be deemed the evidence of the party
reading it.

CHAPTER VI.

0!‘ DIPOBITIONB TAKEN OUT OF THIS TERRITORY.

8:0. 390. When may be, and how taken.
391. Settling interrogatories.
393. Commission, what to contain.
89‘. Postponement of trial for non-return of.

SEC. 390. The testimony of a witness out of the territory may
be taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service of the summons or the appearance of the defendant; and
in a special proceeding, at any time after a question of fact
has arisen therein.

Sec. 391. The depositim of a witness out of this territory
shall be taken upon commission issued from the court, under
the seal of the court, upon an order of the judge, or court, or
ggobate judge, on the application of either arty, upon five

ys previous notice to the other. It shall e issued to the
person agreed upon by the parties, or if they do not agree, to
any judge or justice of the peace selected by the officer granting the commission,,or to a commissioner a pointed by the
governor of this territory to take aiiidavits an depositions in
other states.

Sac. 392. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, as
the respective parties may pre are, to be settled, if the parties
disagree as to their form, by e judge or officer granting the
order for the commission, at a day fixed in the order, may be
annexed to the commission; or, when the parties agree to that

mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories. ‘

SEC. 393. The commission shall authorize the commissioner
to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his deposition
in answer to the interrogatories, or when the examination is
to be without interro tories, in respect to the question in
dispute; and to the deposition to the court, in a sealed

envelope, directed to the clerk, or other person designated or
agreed upon, and forward to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance. A

81:0. 394. A trial, or other proceeding, shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon
evidence, satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the

witness is necessary, and that proper dilligence has been used
to obtain it.

CHAPTER VII.

0!‘ PROCEEDINGS TO’ PERPETUATE TISTIIONY.

SIG. 395. 'l'estimony,_how perpetuated.
896. Manner of proceeding.
898. Examination and deposition.
399. Anidavit, etfect of.
400. Deposition, when to be used as evidence.

8:0. 395. The testimony of a witness may be taken and
perpetuated as rovided in this chapter of this act.

SEC. 396. e applicant shall produce to a district jud e,
or to a probate judge, an aiiidavit stating: First. That e
applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
territory, and in such case, the name or names of the person
or persons whom he expects will be adverse parties; or, Second.
That the proof of some fact or facts is necessary to perfect the
title to property in which he is interested, or to establish marriage descent, heirship, or any other matter which may hereafter
become material to establish, though no suit may at the time
be anticipated, or if antici ated, he may not know the parties
to the Slllt; and, Third. }'.l'he name or names of the witness
or witnesses to be examined at his or their place of residence
and a general outline of the facts expected to be proved. The
judge to whom such petition is presented shall make an order
allowing the examination and prescribing the notice to be
given, which notice, if the parties are known and reside in this
territory, shall be ersonall served on them; and if unknown,
such notice shall e serve on the clerk of the coun where

the_property to be affected by such evidence is situat , and a

notice thereof published in some newspaper to be designated
by the judge making the order.

Sac. 397. Upon proof of service of the notice, as provided

in the last section, it shall be the du of the judge before whom
the depositions are ordered to be ta on, to proceed to take the
depositions of the witnesses named in such petition, upon the
facts therein set forth; and the taking of the same may be
continued from time to time, in the discretion of the jud e.

SEC. 898. The examination shall be by uestion an answer, _unless the arties otherwise agree. he de osition,
when taken, shall e carefully read to, and subscribe by the
witness, then certified by the judge, and immediately thereafter filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county where the same was taken; together with the order
for the examination, the petition on which the same was
granted, and the proof of service of notice.

SEC. 399. The affidavits or proof filed with the deposition,
or certified copies thereof, shal be prima facie evidence of the
facts stated therein. \

SEC. 400. If a trial be had between the parties named in
the petition as parties expectant, or their successors in interest,
or between any parties wherein it may be material to establish
the fact which such depositions prove, or tend to prove, upon
proof of the death or insanity of the witness or witnesses, or
of his or their inabilit to attend the trial, by reason of age,
sickness, or settled in rmity, the de osition or depsitions, or
certified copies thereof, may be use by either party, subject
to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be
made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER VIII.

ADIINISTRATION OP OATE8 Al\'D AFFIRHATION8.

SIG. 401. Who authorized.
402. How administered.
403. Amrmatlon, form of.

SEC. 401. Every court of this territory, eve judge or clerk
of any court, every justice of the peace, an every notary
public, and every oiiicer authorized to take testimony, or to

ecide up‘on evidence in any proceeding, shall have power to
administer oaths or afhrmations.

S130. 402. When a person is sworn who believes in any

other christian religion, he may be sworn according to thepeculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

830. 403. Any witness who desires it, may, at his, option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn afiirmation or
declaration, by assenting, when addressed, in the followin
form: “ You do solemnly affirm that the evidence you sha 1
give in this issue (or matter), pending between and ,
shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the trut .”
Assent to this affirmation shall be made by the answer, “I do.”
A false affirmation or declartion shall be deemed perjury
equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER IX.

INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AS TO RECORDS
AND WRITINGS.

SEC. 404. Court may order party to allow.

405. Evidence of the contents of a writing.

406. Alterations in writing to be accounted for.

407. Judicial record how proved.

409. Judicial record of foreign country, how proved.

410. Copy of when admissible.

411. Printed volumes of statutes to be admitted as evidence.
(12. Seal of court, how impressed.

SEC. 404. Any court in which an action is pending, or a
judge thereof, or a probate judge, may, upon notice, order
either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an
inspection and copy, or ermission to take a co yof any book,
document, or aper in is possession, or under his control,
containing evi ence relating to the merits of the action or the
defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the
court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being
given in evidence; or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
al eges it to be, and the court may also punish the party refusing for a contempt. This section shall not be construed to
prevent a party from compelling another to produce books,
papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness. .

SEC. 405. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a
writing other than the writing itself, except in the following
cases : First. When the original has been lost or destroyed, in

which casevproof of the loss or destruction shall first be made.
Second. hen the original is in the possession of the party
against whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce
it, after reasonable notice. Third. When the original is a
record or other document in the custody of a public otilcer.
Fourth. When the original has been recorded, and a certified
copy of the record is made evidence by statute. Fifth. When
the original consists of numerous accounts, or other documents,
which cannot be examined in court without reat loss of time,
and the evidence sought from them is only tie general result
of the whole.

Sec. 406. The party producing a writin as genuine, which
has been altered, or appears to have been a tered, after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and such
alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for the
appearance or alteration. He may show that the alteration
was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the
writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

SEC. 407. A judicial record of this territory or of the United
States may be proved by the production of the original or a
copy thereof, certified by the clerk or other person having the
legal custod thereof, under the seal of the court, to be a true
copy of suc record.

SEO. 408. The records and judicial proceedings of the
courts of any state of the United States may be proved or admitted ‘in the courts of this territory, by the attestation of the
clerk and the seal of the court annexed (if there be a seal,
together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice or presi ing ma ' trate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is
in due orm. ,

Size. 409. A judicial record of a foreign country may be
proved by the production of a copy th’ereof, certified by the
clerk, with the seal of the court annexed (if there be a clerk
and seal , or by the le 1 keeper of the record, with the seal
of his 0 cs annexed (i there be a seal), to be a true copy of
such record, together with a certificate of a jud e of the court
that the erson making the certificate is the cler of the court
or legal eeper of the record—and in either case that the signature is genuine and the certificate in due form; and also,
together with the certificate of the minister or embassador of
the United States, or of a consul of the United States, in such
foreign country, that there is such a court, specifying generally
the nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the signature of
the judge and clerk, or other legal keeper of the record.

8:0. 410. A cop of the judicial record of a foreign counshall also be missible in evidence upon proof: First.
T t the co y offered has been compared by the witness with
the origina , and is an exact transcript of the whole of it.
Second. That such original was in the custody of the clerk
of the court or other legal keeper of the same; and, Third.
That the copy is duly attested by a seal, which is proved to be
the seal of the court where the record remains, if it be the
record of a court; or (if there be no such seal, or if it be not
a recoril of a court) by the signature of the legal keeper of the
on na .
no. 411. Printed copies, in volumes of statutes, codes or
other written law, enacted by any other state or territory, or
forei government, purporting or proved to have been publish by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing aw in the courts and 'udicial tribunals of such state, territory or government, shall be
admitted by the courts and officers of this territory, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.
SEC. 412. A seal of acourt or public officer, when required
to any writ, or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a
e

cop of any record or document, ma impressed with wax,

w er or any other substance, and en attached to the writ,

process or proceeding, or to the copy of the record or document, or it may be impressed on the paper alone.

TITLE XIII.

OP ‘PHI WRIT OI‘ GlRl'IORA3I AND OF ILIDAIUB.

CHAPTER I.

THE WRIT OF CKRTIOBARI, OR RIVIIW.

BIO. 413. Denomination.

414. By what courts, and in what cases granted.
415. Application for, how made.

416. To whom to be directed.

417. Writ, what to contain.

419. How served.

420. Review upon extent of.

42!. Return of, judgment.

Bno. (22. Copy of to he tnunlttod.
423. Judgment roll, appeal.

SEC. 413. p The writ of certiorari may be denominated the
writ of review.

Sac. 414. This writ may be granted on application by an
court of this territory, except a Justice's court. The writ sha
be granted in all cases where an inferior tribunal, board or
officer, exercisingjudicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board or officer, and there is no appeal,
nor, in the judgment of the court, any other plain, speedy
and adequate remedy.

SEC. 415. The a plication shall be made on affidavit, by
the part beneficial y interested, and the court may require a
notice 0 application to be given to the adverse art , or may
grant an order to show cause why it should not e a lowed, or
may grant the writ without notice.

Sac. 416. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal,
board or officer, or to any other person havin the custody of
the record or proceedings to be certified. When directed to a

tribunal, the clerk, if there be one, shall return the writ, with
the transcript required.

SEC. 417. The writ of review shall command the party to
whom it is directed to certify fully to the court issuing the writ,

at a specified time and place, and annex to the writ a transcript
of the record and proceeding (describin or referring to them
with convenient certainty), that the sam may be reviewed by
the court; and requiring the arty, in the meantime, to desist
from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 418. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the
words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ; these
words may be mserted or omitted, in the sound discretion of
the court; but if omitted, the ower of the inferior court or
or officer shall not be suspende , nor the proceedings stayed.

SEC. 419. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a

summons in a civil action; except when otherwise expressly

directed by the court.

SEC. 420. The review on this writ shall not be extended
further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal, board,

or officer has regularly pursued the authority of such tribunal,
board, or officer.

Sec. 421. If the return of the writ be defective, the court
may order a further return to be made. “Then a full return
has been made, the court shall proceed to hear the parties, or
such of them as shall attend for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment, either afiirming or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.

Ssc. 422. A co y of the judgment signed by the clerk,
shall be transmitte to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer
having the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.

830. 423. A copy of the judgment, signe by the clerk,
entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall constitute
the judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other than
the supreme court, an a peal may be taken from the judgment
in the same manner, an upon the same terms, as from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER II.

THE WRIT OF‘ llANliATE OR HANDAHUS.

Ste. 424. Denomination.

425. By what court and in what cases may be ianed.

427. Alternative or peremptory denned.

428. When alternative or peremptory to be issued, notice of application, answer to writ.

430. When court may order trial by jury.

431. Objections to sumciency of answer.

432. New trial, other party may move for.

433. Duty of clerk to transmit a verdict, argument of application.‘
435. Judgment and execution.

436. Writ how served.

437. Penalty for disobeying peremtory mandamus.

SEC. 424. The writ of mandamus may be denominated the
writ of mandate.

SEC. 425. It may be issued in any court in this territory,
excegt by justice’s court, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
boa or person, to compel the performance of an act, which
the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the
use and enjo ment of a right or office to which he is entitled,
and from w ich he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior
tribunal, corporation, board or person.

SEC. 426. This writ shall be issued in all cases where there
is not a plain, s eedy and, adequate remedy, in the ordinary
course 0 law. , gt shall be issued upon affidavit, on the application of the party beneficially interested.

Bio. 427. The writ shall be either alternative or eremptory; the alternative writ shall state generally the a e tion
against the party to whom it is directed, and eomman such
party, immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some
other eciiied time, to do the act required to be erformed,
or to s ow cause before the court, at a specific time and
place, why he has not done so. The eremptory writ shall be
in similar form, exce t that the wo s requiring the party to
show cause why he not done as commanded shal be
omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

Size. 428. When the application to the court is made without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, the
alternative shall be first issued; but if the application be upon
due notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may be
issued in the first instance. The notice ot ap lication, when
given, shall be at least ten days. The writ shal not be nted
as default. The case shall be heard by the court, whet er the

verse party appear or not.

Sac. 429. On the return da of the alternative, or the day
on which the application of t e writ is noticed, or such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ
or notice shall have been served, may show cause by answer
under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

Size. 430. If an answer be made, which raises a question
as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the motion, and affectin the substantial rights of the arties, and
upon the suppose; truth of the allegation on whic the application for the writ is based, the court may, in its discretion,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the
argument until such trial can be had, and the verdict certified
to the court. The question to be tried shall be distinctly
stated in the order for trial, and the county shall be designated
in which the same shall be had. The order may also direct
the jury to assess any dama es which the applicant may have
sustained, in case they find or him.

Sac. 431. On the trial, the a plicant shall not be precluded by the answer of any vali objection to its suiliciency,
and may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by
way of avoidance.

830. 432. If either party he dissatisfied with the verdict
of the jury, he ma move for a new trial, upon a statement
giglapared as provide in section one hundred and ninety-live.

e motion for a new trial ma , upon reasonable notice, be
brought on before the judge o the court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial he

granted, the jury shall, within five (lays thereafter, unless the
parties agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue.
sAhRlcir a setcoiligd verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial

a not e .

SEC. 433. If no notice of a new trial be given, or if given,
be denied, the clerk, within five days after the rendition of the
verdict or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the court in
which the application for the writ is pending, a certified cop
of the verdict attached to the order of trial; after_ which
either party may bring on the argument of the application,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.

Sec. 434. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard u

on the papers of the applicant. If answer be made, which
does not raise a question such as is mentioned in section four
hundred and thirty, but only such matters as may be explained or avoided y a re ly, the court may, in its discretion,
grant time for replyin . the answer or answer and reply
raise only questions 0 law, or put in issue immaterial statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the
court shall proceed to hear or fix a day for hearing the arguments of the case.

Sac. 435. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, as found
by the ju , or as may be determined by the court or referees,
upon a re erence to be ordered, together with costs; and for
such damages and costs an execution may issue, and a peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.

SEC. 436. The writ shall be served in the same manner as v

a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by order of the court.

81:0. 437. When a peremptory mandate has been issued
and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or
person, if it appears to the court that any member of such triunal, corporation or board, or such person upon whom the
writ has been personally served, has, without Just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceedin one thousand dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal o obedience, the court may
order the rty to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
three men s, and may make an order necessary and proper
for the complete enforcement o the writ. If a fine be imposed upon a judge or officer who draws a salary from the
territory or couny, a certified copy of the order shall be forwarded to the an itor or county treasurer, as the case may be,

and the amount thereof may be retained from the salary of

such judge or oiiicer. Such judge or officer, for his willful
disogiecdience, shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
m o e.

TITLE XIV.

ON CONTEHPPS AND THEIR PUNISHMENTS.

. Gontsmpts, what constitutes.

. When punishable summarily. . Attachment for commitment for, when issuable.
. Bail.

. Duty of sherin.

. Discharge from arrest.

. How effected.

. Return or warrant.

. Penalty if found guilty. .
(47. Same, for omimion to perform certain acts within power.

443. Indictment.
-M9. Proceeding when defendant does not appear.

450. Duty of officer having defendant in custody.
451. Judgment to be final, punishment.

SEC. 438. The followin acts of omissions shall be deemed
contempts: First. Disor erly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the’ judge, whilst holding court or engaged in
his judicial duties at chambers, or toward referees or arbi-‘trators, whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of a trial, reference or arbitration,or other judicial proceeding. Second. A breach of the
peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance, in presence
of the court or its immediate vicinit , tending to interru t the
due course of a trial or other ju icial proceeding. hird.
Disobedience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or

rocess, issued by the court or judge at chambers. Fourth.

isobedience of a subpoena dul served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness. ifth. Rescuing any person
or property in the custody of an officer, b virtue of an order
or process of such court or judge at cham rs.

Sec. 439. VVhen a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or jpdge at chambers,
it may be punished summarily—-for whic an order shall be

made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view
and resence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
there y guilty. of a contem t, and that he be punished as
therein prescribed. When e contem t is not committed in
the immediate view and resence of e court, or judge at
chambers, an affidavit shal be presented to the court or jud e
of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of e
facts by the referees or arbitrators. .

SEC. 440. When a contempt is not committed‘in the immediate view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant
of attachment may be issued to bring the person charged to
answer; or without a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment may, u on notice, or upon an order to show cause, be
granted; an no warrant of commitment shall be issued
without such previous attachment to answer or such notice or
order to show cause.

Size. 441. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued,
Rprisuant to this chapter of this act, the court or judge shall

' ct, by an indorsement on each warrant, that the person
charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount
to be specified in such indorsement.

SEC. 442. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the
sheriff shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the
court or jud e, and detain him until an order be made in the
premises, un ess the person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

Sac. 443. When a direction to let the person arrested to
bail is contained in the warrant of attachment or indorsed
thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon executin and delivering to the officer. at any day before the return ay of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the erson arrested will appear on the return of the warrant, an abide the order of the
court or judge thereupon; or they will pay, as may be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

B20. 444. The officer shall return the warrant of arrest and
the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person
arrested, by the return day specified therein. .

Sac. 445. When the person arrested has been brought up
or appeared, the court orjudge shall roceed to investigate the
charge, and shall hear any answer w ich the person arrested
may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time
to time if necessary.

Sac. 446. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court
or judge shall determine whether the person proceeded

against is guilty of the contempt ch ed, and if it be adjudged
that he is guilty of the contempt, a nc may be imposed on
him not exceeding five hundred dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceedin five days, or both.

Sac. 447. When e contempt consists in the omission to

rform an act which is yet in the ower of the person to rorm, he may be imprisoned until e shall have rform it,
and in that case the act shall be specified in e warrant of
commitment.

8:0. 448. Persons proceeded against accordin to the (provisions in this chapter of this act, shall also be lia le to in ‘ctment for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense;
but the court before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted.

SEC. 449. When the warrant of arrest has been returned
served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return day,
the court or judge may issue another warrant of arrest, or may

order the undertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of the damages in the
action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained by the
aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding.

SEC. 450. Whenever by the revisions of this cha terbf
this act, an onicer is required to ieep a person arres on a
warrant of attachment in custody, and to brin him before a
court or judge, the inability from illness or ot erwise of the
person to attend, shall be a sufficient excuse for not bringin

im u ; and the oiiiccr shall not confine a person arrested
upon t e warrant, in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of
personal libert , except so far as may be necessary to secure his
personal atten ance.

SEC. 451. The judgment and order of the court or jud
made in cases of contempt, shall be iinal and conclusive. TE:
punishment shall be by fine or imprisonment, but no line shall
exceed the sum of five hundred dollars, and no imprisonment
shall exceed the period of five days, except as provided in
section four hundred and forty-seven.

TITLE XV.

OI‘ CORPS.

Bio. 452. Compensation of attorney; prevailing party allowed.
458. Docket fee, proviso.
454. When allowed, of course, to plaintifff.
455. When several actions on one bond.

(56. To whom allowed.
457. When allowed or not.
458. When plaintifff fails to recover against all defendants.

459. Of appeal.
460. Of referees.

461. Costa when trial postponed.
462. When defendant has tendered amount due.

463. In action where administrator, eto., is party.

464. On review.
466. Iemorandum of, to be delivered to clerk.

466. To be included injudgment.
461. Security for costs.

SEC. 452. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counsellors shall be left to the a eement, express
or implied, of the parties; but there shall e allowed to the
preva1ling part in any action in the supreme court, district
courts, and pro ate courts, his costs and necessary disbursements in the action, or special proceedings in ‘the nature of

the action.
SEC. 453. There shall be taxed and collected on the commencement of each action or proceeding in the nature of an
action in the district court, and on each ap eal or writ of error
had to or from said court, the sum of ten dollars, which shall
he termed a docket fee, which shall be collected by the clerk,
and such clerk shall pay over the same to the jud e of his
district and take and file and preserve his receipt t erefor:
Provided, That in all actions, appeals or other proceedings
now pending, or that may be commenced before notice to said
clerk of this law, he may collect said fee at any time before
said cases are tried and determined, or otherwise disposed of,
or it may be collected with the other costs of the suit or proceeding. Sec. 454. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintifff
upon a judgment in his favor in the following cases: First.
In an action for the recovery of real property. Second. In
an action to recover possesslon of personal property when the
value amounts to one hundred dollars or over; such value

shall be determined b the jury, court or referee by whom the
action is tried. Thir . In an action for the recovery of money

or damages where the plaintifff recovers one hundred dollars.

or over. Fourth. In a special proceeding in the nature of an
action.

SEC. 455. When several actions are brought on one bond,
undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing, or 111 any other case for the same cause of
action, against several parties who might have been joined as
defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to the
plaintifff in more than one of such actions, which may be at his
election, if the party proceeded a ainst in the other actions
were at the commencement of t e previous action open]
within this territory; but the disbursements of the plaintili:
shall be allowed to him in each action.

SEO. 456. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the defendant
upon a judgment in his favor in the action mentioned in section four hundred and fifty-four, and in a special proceeding in
the nature of an action.

SEC. 457. In other actions than those mentioned in section
four hundred and fifty-four, costs may be allowed or not; and
if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court; but no
damages, when the plaintifff recovers less than one hun red
dollars, nor in an actlon to recover the possession of ersonal

ropertg, when the value of the property is less t an one
undre dollars.

SEC. 458. When there are several defendants in the actions
mentioned in section four hundred and fifty-four, not united
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
and the plaintiffffails to recover judgment against all, the court
shall award costs to such of the defendants as have judgments
in their favor.

SEC. 459. In the following cases the costs of an appeal, or
writ of error, shall be in the discretion of the court: First.
When a new trial is ordered. Second. When’ the judgment
is modified.

SEC. 460. The fees of referees shall be ten dollars to each
for eve day spent in the business of the reference, and the
parties s all not agree upon any other rate of compensation,

nor shall any other rate of compensation be allowed by the
courts.

S10. 461. When an application is madoto acourt or referee
to postpone a ‘trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the

costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or

postponement may be imposed, in the discretion of the court
or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

Sun. 462. When, in action for the recovery of money only,
the defendant alleges in his answer that, before the commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff the full amount
to which he was entitled, and thereu on deposits in court for
plaintifff the amount so tendered, an the allegation be found
to be true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but shall pay
costs to the defendant.

81:0. 463. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in an
action b or against a person prosecuting or defending in his
own rig t, but such costs shall,.by the judgment, be made
chargeable only upon the estate, fund, or party re resented,
unless the court shall directthe same to be paid b t eplainiff
or defendant, ersonally, for mismanagement or ad faith in
the action or efense.

SEC. 464. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction, in a special proceeding, is brought before a court of
higher jurisdiction for a review, in any other way than by
appeal, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appea ,
and may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
court may direct, according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 465. The party in whose favor judgment is rendered,
and who claims his costs, shall deliverto the clerk of the court
within two days after the verdict or decision of the court, a
memorandum of the items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, which memorandum shall
be verified by the oath of the arty, or his attorney, stating
that the items are correct, an that the disbursements have
been necessaril incurred in the action or proceeding.

Sac. 466. he clerk shall include, in the judgment entered
up by him, the costs, per centage allowed, and any interest on
the verdict from the time it was rendered. ,

SEC. 467. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the
territory, or is-a foreign co oration, security for the costs and
charges which may be aw ed against such plaintifff, ma be
required by the defendant. When re uired, all proceeclings
in the action shall he stayed until an un ertaking,.executed by
two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, to the effect that
they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintifff by 'udgment, or in the progress of the
action, not exceeding e sum of three hundred dollars. A
new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the court
or judge, upon proof that the original undertaking is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until such
new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.

SEC. 468. Each of the sureties on the undertakino mentioned above, shall annex to the same an aiiidavit thatlie is a
resident within the county, and is worth double the amount
specified in the undertaking, over and above all just debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

SEC. 469. After the lapse of thirty da 's from the service of
notice that security is required, or an or er for new and additional securit , upon proof thereof, and that no undertaking as

required has een filed, the court may order the action to be
dismissed.

TITLE XVI.

OF MOTIONS, ORDERS, SERVICE OF PAPERS, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Ste. 470. Motions, etc., delined.

471. Where to be made, notice of.

473. . May be transferred.

474. Service of papers, how made.

476. When served by mail. ' '
478. When defendant deemed to have appeared.
479. Service of, after appearance.

480. Successive actions on same contract.
481. When my be consolidated.

482. Action to settle adverse claim.

4.83. Register of action.

484. Referees, majority may act.

485. Time, how computed. .
486. Paper without the title of the action.

SEC. 470. Every direction of a court or judge made or
entered in Writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 471. Motions shall be made in the county in which
the action is brought, or in an adjoining county in the same
district.

SEC. 472. When a written notice of a motion is necessary,
it shall be given, if the court be held in the same district with
both parties, five days before the time appointed for the hearin ; otherwise ten days; but the court or judge, or probate
~ju ge, may prescribe a shorter time.

Snc. 473. When a notice of motion is 'ven, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a ju ge out of court, and
at the time fixed for the motion or on the return day of the
order, the judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter may
be transferred b his order to some other judge, before whom
it might origina ly have been brought.

SEC. 474. Written notices and other papers, when required
to be served on the party or attorney, shall be served in the
manner prescribed in the next three sections, when not otherwise provided; but nothing in this title shall be applicable to
original or final process, or any proceedings to bring a party
into contempt.

SEC. 475. The service may be personal, by delivery to the
party or attorney on whom the service is required to be made,
or it may be as follows: First. If upon an attorney, it may
be made during his absence from his office by leaving the
notice or other papers with his clerk therein, or with a person
having charge thereof; or when there is no person in the
office, by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in
the office; or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service,
then by leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some
person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be
not known, then by putting the same, enclosed in an envelope,
into the post office, directed to such attorney. Second. If
upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the
mornin and six in the evening, with some person of suitable
age an discretion; and if his residence be not known, by
putting the same enclosed in an envelope, into the post office,
directed to such party.

Sac. 476. Service by mail may be made where the person
making the service and the person on whom it is to be made
reside in different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail.

Sac. 477. In case of service by mail, the notice or other
paper shall be deposited in the post office, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his place of residence,
and the postage paid; and in such case the time of service
shall be increased one day for every twenty miles distance
between the place of deposit and the place of the address.

SE01 478. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an
action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintifff written
notice of his appearance, or when an attorne °ves notice of
appearance for him. _ .A_tter appearance, a e endant or his
attorney shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is required to be given. But where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or paper need not
be made u n him, unless he be im risoned for want of bail.

SEC. 47 . When a plaintifff or ade endant who has appeared
resides out of the terntory and has no attorney in the action
or proceeding, the service may be made on the clerk for him.
But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the action or
proceeding, the service of papers, when required shall be upon
the attorney, instead of the party, except in subpoenas or write
and other process issued in the suit, and of papers to bring
him into contempt.

SEC. 480. Successive actions may be maintained upon the.

same contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action
a new cause of action arise therefrom.

SEC. 481. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time, between the same parties and in the same court,
upon cause of action which might have been joined, the court
ma order the action to be consolidated into one.

gllc. 482. An action ma ' be brought by one person against
another for the purpose of etermining an adverse claim which
the latter makes against the former, for money or property,
upon alleged obli tion; and also against two or more persons,
for thepurpose o compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the
other, for which the plaintifff is bound as security.

SEC. 483. The clerk shall keep among the records of the
court two registers of actlons ; one for action at law and the
other for roceedings at chancery. He shall enter in them,
respective y, the title of the action, with brief notes under it,
from time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had
therein.

S120. 484. ‘When there are three referees or three arbitrators,
all shall meet, but two of them may do any act which might
be done by all.

SEC. 485. The time within which an act is to be done, as

rovided in this act, shall be computed by excluding the lirst
gay and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded.

B30. 486. An aiiidavit, notice or other paper without the
title of the action or proceedin in which it is made, or with a
defective title, shall be as vali and effectual for any purpose
as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to such action or
proceeding.

TITLE XVII.

or rnocnmncs IN crvn. cxsss IN Jusrxcss’ counrs.
CHAPTER I.

or rm: PARTIES, Ann -rm: -run: AND men or coiursxcmc ACTIONS IN
Jusrrcss’ couars.

83c. 487. Parties to action.
488. Hey appear in person or by attorney.
489. Jurisdiction of.
490. Judgment by confession.
491. Jurisdiction by consent of parties.

Sec. 487. The provisions of title one of this act, as to
parties to actions, shall be applicable to actions of which a

justice’s court has jurisdiction.

See. 488. Parties in justices’ courts may prosecute or
defend in person or by attorney; and any person, on the
request of a party, may act as his attorney, except that the
constable by Whom the summons orjury rocess was served
shall not appear or act on the trial in beha f of either part .

SEC. 489. The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace s all
be co-extensive with the limits of the county in which they
are elected, and no other or greater, unless otherwise expressly
provided by statute.

SEC. 490. Judgment upon confession may be entered up in
an justices’ court in this territory, spccihed in the confession.

£30. 491. Justices’ courts shall have jurisdiction of an
action upon the voluntary appearance of the parties without
summons, without regard to their residences, or the place
where the cause of action arose or the subject matter of the
action may exist.

CHAPTER II.

smnroxs, ARREST, A'l'l'ACH)lEN'l‘, AND cunt or PERSOJIAL Pnornrrr.

Sac. 492. Action how commenced.
493. Guardian, how appointed.
494. Summons, form of.

Bio. 495. Time of service and appearance.

496. How served and by whom.

497. Service by publication.

(98. When order for arrest may be indorsed.

500. When defendant may be taken before another justice.
501. Duty of officer making arrest.

503. Deiendant under arrest may demand immediate trial or bail.
504. How defendant may obtain adjournment.

505. Attachment, when may be issued.

507. Prerequisite to issuance.

508. Writ of, form.

509. Previous provisions made applicable.

510. Plaintiff may claim delivery of property.

511. Delivery, how claimed.

512. Order for.

513. Duty of onicer in the premises.

514. Excepting to sureties.

515. How defendant may reclaim property.

516. J ustification of sureties of defendant, duty of officers asto hidden property.
518. Disposition of property by oillcer. 5

519. Proceedings in case property is claimed by third party.

520. Return of order.

521. Qualification of sureties.

522. Justification of sureties how conducted.

523. Bureties sufficient, proceedings of Justice.

SEC. 492. Actions in justices’ courts shall be commenced
by filing a copy of the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument
upon which the action is brought, or a concise statement in
Writin of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons t ereon, or by the voluntary ap earance and pleading of
the parties without summons; in t e latter case, the action
shall be deemed commenced at the time of appearance.

Sec. 493. When a guardian is necessar , he shall be
a pointed by the justice as follows: First. if the infant be
p aintiif, the appointment shall be made before the summons
18 issued, upon the application of the infant, it’ he be of the
age of fourteen years or upwards ; if under that age, upon the
application of some relative or friend. The consent in
Writing of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible
for costs, if he fail in the action, shall be first filed with the

justice. Second. If the infant be defendant, the guardian

shall be appointed at the time the summons is returned, or
before the pleadings. It shall be the right of the infant to
nominate his own guardian, if the infant be over fourteen
years of age, and the proposed uardian be present and consent
111 writin to be appointed; 0 erwise, the justice may appoint
any suita le person who gives such consent.

SEC. 494. The summons shall be addressed to the defendant
by name, or if his name be unknown, by a fictitious name;
and shall summon him to appear before the justice at his office,
naming its township or city, and at a time specified therein, to
answer the complaint of the plaintifff, for a cause of action
therein described, in general terms, sufiicient to apprise the
defendant of the nature of the claim against him; and in an
action for mone or damages, shall state the amount for which
the plaintifff wil take jutfoment, if the defendant fail to appear and answer. It shallllwe subscribed by the justice before
whom it is returnable. , ,

SEC. 495. The time mentioned in the summons for the apearance of the defendant and the time of service shall be as
ollows: First. When the summons is accompanied with an
order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable immediately. Second. In all other cases, it shall be returnable in
not less than four, or more then ten days from its date, and
shall be served at least four da s before the time for appearance.

SEC. 496. The summons s all be served by the sheriff or a
constable of the county, or any white male person of lawful
age, as follows : First. If the action be against a corporation,
by the delivery of a copy to the president or other head of the
corporation, or to the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof; or when no such oiiicer resides in the county, to a director resident therein. econd. If against a minor under
the age of fourteen years, y delivery of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if there be
none within the county, then to any person having the care or
control of such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose
service he is. Third. If against a erson judicially declared
to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own
affairs, and for Whom a guardian has been a pointed, by delivery of a co y to such guardian. Fourth. n all other cases,
by delivery 0 a copy to the defendant personally.

SEC. 497. When the person upon whom the service is to be
made resides out of the territory, or has departed from the territory, or cannot, after due diligence, be found within the territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons, and
the fact shall appear, by affidavit, to the satisfaction of the justice, and it shall, in like manner, appear that a cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be
made, the justice shall grant an order that service be made by

ublication of the summons. The order shall direct the pubication to be made in a newspaper, to be desi ated as most
likely to give notice to the person to be serve , and for such
length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a

week: Provided, That a publication against a defendant residing out of the territory or absent therefrom, shall not be less
than one month. The service of summons shall be deemed
complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order
of publication ; the 'ustice shall also direct a copy of the summons to be forthwit deposited in the post office, directed to

the person to be served, at his, or his last known place of
residence.

SEC. 498. An order to arrest the defendant may be endorsed
on a summons issued by the justice, and the defendant may be
arrested thereon by the sheriff or constable, at the time of
servin the summons, and brought before the justice, and
there §letained until duly discharged, in the following cases,
arising after the passage of this act: First. In an action for
the recovery of money or damages, and a cause of action arising on contract, express or implied, when the defendant is
about to depart from the territor , with intent to defraud his
creditors; or when the action is or a willful injury to the person, or for the taking, detaining, or injuring personal property.
Second. In an action for a line or penalty, or for money or
property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted

‘to his own use, by an attorney, factor, broker, agent or- clerk,

in the course of his employment as such, or by any other erson in a iiduciary capacity. Third. When the defendant as
been guilty of afraud in contracti the debt, or incurrin the
obli ation for which the action is rought. Fourth. hen
the efendant has removed, concealed, or disposed of his progerty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
ut no female shall be arrested in any action.

SEC. 499. Before an order for arrest shall be made, the party
applying shall prove to the satisfaction of the justice, by the
a davit of himself or some other person, the facts on which
the a plication is founded. The plaintifff shall also execute
and eliver to the justice a written undertaking, with two or
more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pa to him all costs that may be awarded
to the defendant, and al dama es which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, not excee ing the sum speciiied in the
undertaking, which shall be at least two hu udred dollars.

SEC. 500. The defendant, immediately upon being arrested,‘

shall be taken to the office of the justice who made the order,
and if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it be made
to appear to him by the aftidavit of the defendant, that he is a
material witness in the action, the officer shall immediately
take the defendant before the next justice within the county,

who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon,
as if the summons had been issued and the order of arrest
made by him.

SEC. 501. The officer making an arrest shall immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintifff’, or his attorney or agent,
and endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certificate,
stating the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and
of his giving notice to the plaintifff.

Sec. 502. The oiiicer making the arrest shall keep the defendant in custody until duly discharged by the order of the
justice.

Sac. 503. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance
with the oiiicer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon
such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond
three hours, except by the trial of another action pending at
the time; or he may have an adjournment, and be discharged
on giving bail, as provided in the next section. An adjournment at the re nest of the plaintifff, beyond three hours, shall
discharge the defendant from arrest, but the action may proceed, notwithstanding; and the defendant shall be subject to

arrest on the execution, in the same manner as if he had not‘
been so discharged.

S130. 504. If the defendant on his appearance demand an
adjournment, the same shall be granted. on condition that he
execute and file with the justice an undertaking, with two or
more suiiicient sureties, to be approved b the 'ustice, to the
effect that he will render himself amenable to t e process of
the court durin the endency ot the action, and such as may
be issued to en orce the judgment therein ; or that the sureties
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment which
he may recover in the action. On tiling the undertaking specified in this section, the justice shall order the defendant to be
discharged from custody.

SEC. 505. In an action upon a contract, express or implied,
made after the passage of this act, for the direct payment of
money, which contract is made or is payable in this territory,
and is not secured by mor ge, lien or pledge on real or personal property, the plainti ' at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of the
defendant attached as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give security
to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided.

830. 506. A writ to attach the property of the defendant
shall be issued by the justice, on receiving an affidavit by or

on behalf of the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required to be shown by the aiiidavit in cases of attachment in
the district court.

SEC. 507. Before issuin the writ, the justice shall require
a written undertaking on e part of the plaintifff, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that-if the defendant recover judgment, or if the attachment be dismissed, the plaintifff will ay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
attachment.

SEO. 508. The writ may be directed to the sherifi or any
constable of the county, and shall require him to attach and
safely keep all the property of the defendant in his county, not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifffs demand—the amount of which
shall be stated, in conformity with the complaint, unless the defendant give him security, by the undertaking of two sufhcient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs ; in which case, to take such undertaking.

Sac. 509. The sections of this act, from section one hundred and twenty-four to section one hundred and forty-one,
both inclusive, shall be a plicable to attachments issued in
justices’ courts—the wor “constable” being substituted for
the word “ sheriff,” whenever the writ is directed to a constable, and the word “justice” being substituted for the word
“judge.” _.

SEC. 510. The plaintifff, in an action to recover possesion
of personal pro erty, may, at the time of issuing the summons
or at any time efore answer, claim the delivery of such property to him, as provided in this act.

SEC. 511. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be
made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his hehalf, showing:
First. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof. Second. That the roperty is wrongful] detained by the defendant. Third. '.Fhe alleged cause 0 the
detention thereof; accordin to his best knowledge, information and belief. Fourth. hat the same has not been taken
for a tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to statute, or seized, under an execution or an attachment against the property of the
plaintifff ; or, if seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure ; and, Fifth. The actual value of the property.

Sac. 512. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or a constable

of the county to take the same from the defendant, and deliver
it to the lamtiff, upon receiving the undertaking mentioned
in the fol owin section. '

SEC. 513. pen the receipt of the affidavit and order, with
a written undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient
sureties, approved by the officer, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the
aiiidavit for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the
property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, he
recovered against the plaintifff, the officer shall forthwith take
the property described in the aiiidavit, if it be in possession of
the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He
shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the
affidavit, order and undertaking, by delivering the same to
him personally, if he can be found within the county, or to
his agent, from whose possession the propert is taken ; or if
neither can be found within the county, by eaving them at
the usual place of abode of either, wlthin the county, with
some person of suitable age and discretion ; or if neither have
any known place of abode within the county, b putting them
in the nearest ost office, directed to the defen ant.

S120. 514. he defendant may, within two days after the

service of a copy of the affidavit and undertakinfg, g1ve notice

to the officer that he excepts to the sufhciency 0 he sureties;
if he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties
shall justify, on notice, before the justice; and the officer
shall be responsible for the sufiiciency of the sureties until
the objection to them is either waived, as above provided, or
until they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he
cannot reclaim the propert , as provided in the next section.

SEC. 515. At any time efore the delivery of the property
to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintifff, require t e return thereof, upon giving to the officer a written undertaking, executed by two or
more suiiicient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of
the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for payment to him of such
sum as may, from any cause, he recovered against the defendant. If a return of the pro erty be not so required within
two days after the taking an service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in this act.

Sac. 516. The defendant's sureties, upon reasonable notice

to theplaintifff, shall justify before the justice; and upon such
'ustification, the officer shall deliver the property to the deendant. The officer shall be responsible for the defendant's
sureties until the justify, or until the justification is completed or express y waived, and may retain the property until
that time; but if they, or others in their place, fai to justify
at the fftime appointed, he shall deliver the property to the
lainti .
P SEC. 517. If the property, or any art thereof, be con-cealed in a building or enclosure, the o ‘cer shall publicly demand its delivery, and if it be not delivered, he shall cause
the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession.

SEC. 518. When the oihcer shall have taken pro erty, as
in this act provided, he shall keep it in a secure p ace, and
deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his
lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same.

SEC. 519. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make
affidavit of his title thereto, or rig t to the possession thereof,
stating the rounds of such title or right, and serve the same
upon the o cer, the officer shall not be bound to keep the
gzopergv, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on

man of him or his agent, indemnify the officer against
such claim, by an undertaking executed by two sufficient sureties accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth ~

double the value of the property as ecified in the anidavit
of the plaintifff, over and above their ebts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and are property
holders of the county; and no claim to such pro erty by any
other person than the defendant, or his agent, s all be valid
against the officer, unless so made.

SEC. 520. The officer shall return the order and affidavit,
with his proceedings thereon, to the justice, within five days
after taklng the property mentioned therein.

SEC. 521. The qualification of snreties on the several undertakings re%uired by this act, shall be as follows: First. Each
of them s all be a resident and property holder within the
count . Second. Each shall be worth double the amount
state in the undertaking, over and above all his debts and
liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.

SEC. 522. For the purpose of justification, each of the
snreties shall attend before the justice at the time mentioned
in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the
adverse party, touching his sufliciency, in such manner as the

justice, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination
shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the sureties,
if required.

SEC. 523. If the justice find the sureties sufiicient, he shall
annex the examination to the undertakin , indorse his allowance thereon, and file the same, and the o 'cer shall thereupon
be exonerated from liability.

CHAPTER III.

PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

8:0. 524. Pleading: defined.

525. When to be in writing and verified.

526. Oral, to be entered; written, to he died.
527. Complaint, what to state.

528. -Answer, what to contain.

529. Certain statement in equal to denial.

530. When cause arises on instrument for payment of money.
531. Instrument, genulneness of to be admitted.
532. Objection to pleadings.

533. Variance between proof and allegation.
534. Amendment of pleadings.

235. Title of real property not to be raised, proceedings, when in question.
536. When action to be transferred, and how, adjournment of trial»

540. Plaintiff not appearing action dismissed.

541. Defendant not appearing case may proceed.

542. Trial by jury, when demanded, proceedings when jury trial demanded.
545. Challenging jurors.

830. 524. The pleadings in justices’ courts shall be—First.
The complaint by the plaintifff, stating the cause of action.
Second. The answer by the defendant, stating the grounds of
the defense.

SEC. 525. The pleadings shall be in writing and verified by
the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action
is—First. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien, on personal property. Second. For a
forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions. Third. To

recover possession of a mining claim. In other cases the
pleadings may be oral or in writing.

Suc. 526. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of
them shall be entered b the justice in his docket; when in
writing, they shall be file in his office, and a reference to them
made in the docket. Pleadin shall not be required to be in
any particular form, but shall %: such as to enable a person of
common understanding to know What is intended.

Sac. 527. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct
manner, the facts constituting the cause of action.

SEC. 528. The answer may contain a denial of any of the
material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a plain and direct
manner, of an other facts constituting a defense, or a counter
claim, upon W ich an action might be brought by the defendant against the plaintifff, in a justice’s court.

SEC. 529. A statement in an answer that the party has not
sufficient knowledge or information, in respect to a particular
allegation in the previous pleadings of the adverse party, to
form a belief, shall be deemed equivalent to a denial.

Sac. 530. When the cause of action, or counterclaim,
arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of
money only, it shall be sufficient for the party to deliver a
copy of the account or instrument to the court, and to state
that there is due to him thereupon from the adverse part a
specif1ed sum, which he claims to recover or set oil. "he
court may, at the time of the pleading, require that the original account or instrument be exhibited to the inspection of
the adverse arty, and a copy to be furnished ; or, if it be not’
so exhibited) and a co y furnished, may prohibit its being
afterwards given in evidence.

SEC. 531. If the plaintifff annex to his complaint, or file
with the justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy
of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the payment of money, upon which the action is
brought, the defendant shall be deemed to admit the genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers or assignors
thereof, unless he s ecifically deny the same in his answer,
and verify the same y his oath. ‘

SEC. 532. Either party may object to a pleading of his adversa , or to any part thereof, that is not sufficiently explicit
to ena le him to understand it, or that it contains no cause
of action or defense, although it be taken as true. If the
court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended; and if the party refuse to amend,
the defective pleading shall be disre arded.

Sec. 533. A variance between t e proof on the trial and
the allegations in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his rejudice thereby.

SEC. 534. The p eadings may be amended at any time before the trial, to supply a ejiciency or omission, when b such
amendments ‘substantial justice will be promoted. the
amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear
to the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amend’ment, the payment of costs to the ‘ adverse party, to be fixed
by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars; but such payment
shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary
by the amendment; nor shall an amendment be allowed after
a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary. '

Size. 585. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence by which the question of title to real property shall be
raised on the trial before ajustice, and if it appear from the
plaintifff’s own showing on the trial, or from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath, or that of his agent or attorne , that the determination of the action will necessarily inv0 ve the decision of a question of title to real pro erty, the
justice shall suspend all further proceedings in t e action,
and certify the pleadings; or if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same from his docket to the district court of the
county; and from the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the clerk, the district court shall have over the action the same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced
therein: Provided, That when the pleadings or transcript are
certified to the district court upon_ the answer of the defendant,
he shall file an undertakin , with two or more suilicient
sureties, to be approved by t e justice, to the effect that they
will pa all costs of the action if it be decided against him
by the district court.

SEC. 536. If at any time before the trial it appear, to the
satisfaction of the justice before whom the action is brought,
by affidavit of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either party make affidavit that he
has reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial before such justice, the action shall be
transferred to some other justice of the same county; and in
case of a ‘my being demanded, and affidavit of either party
is made, that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens of the precinct
or township against him, the action shall be transferred to

some other justice of the peace in the county. The justice
to Whom an action may be transferred by the provisions of
this section, shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over
the action as if it had originally commenced before him. The
justice ordering the transfer of the action to another justice,
shall immediately transmit to the latter, on ayment of costs,
all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from his docket, of the proceedin therein. Upon the
return day of the summons, if a jury is required, or if the
justice be actually en aged in other official business, he ma
adjourn the trial witiout the consent of either party, as fo lows: First. When a party, who is not a resident of the
county, is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed
twenty-four hours; when the defendant in attendance is under
arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours. Second.
In other cases, not to exceed five days.

SEC. 537. The trial may be adjourned by consent, or upon
the application of either party, Without the consent of the
other, for a period not exceeding ten days (except as rovided
in the next section), as follows: First. The party as ing the
adjournment shall, if required by his adversary, prove, by his
own oath, or otherwise, that he cannot, for Want of material
testimon , which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial,
and shal show in what respects the testimony expected is material, and that he has used due diligence to procure it, and
has been unable to do so. Second. The party asking the
adjournment shall, also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any Witness of such adverse party
who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition before the
justice, which shall accordingly be done, and the testimony
so taken ma be read on the trial, with the same effect, and
subject to t e same objections as if the witness were produced; but such objections shall be made at the time of taking
the deposition. Third. The court may also require the
moving party to state, u n affidavit, the evidence which he
expects to obtain, and i the adverse party thereupon admit
that such evidence would be given, and that it is to be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be postponed.

‘SEC. 538. An adjournment may be had, either at the time
of joining issue, or atany time subsequent to which the case
may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a
period longer than ten days, 111: not to exceed four months,
from the time of the return of the summons, upon proof, by
the oath of the party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the

time to which he desires an adjournment, for want of material evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay
has not been made necessary by any act of negligence on his

art since the action was commenced; that he has used due

iligence to procure the evidence, and has been unable to do
so, and that he expects to procurethe evidence at the time
stated by him: .P‘rovz'cled, That if the adverse party admit that
such evidence would be given, and consent that it may be
considered as given on the trial, or offered, or overruled as
improper, the adjournment shall not be had.

SEC. 539. No adjournment shall be granted for a period
longer than ten days, upon the application of either party, except on condition that such party file an undertaking, with
sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they
will pay to the opposite party the amount of any judgment
which may be recovered against the party applying.

SEC. 540. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the return day
of the summons, the action shall be dismissed.

SEC. 541. If the defendant fail to ap car at the return day
of the summons, or if either party fail) to attend at a day to
which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleadin or proof on his part, the case may nevertheless
proceed, at t e request of the adverse party, and judgment
shall be given in conformity with the pleadings and proofs.

SEC. 542. A trial by jury shall he demanded at the time  

of joining issue, and shall bedeemed Waived if neither part
then demand it. VVhen demanded, the trial of the case sha 1
be adjourned until a time and place fixed for the return of the
jury,’ If neither party desire an adjournment, the time at a
place shall be determined by the justice, and shall be on the
same day, or Within the next two days. The jury shall be
summoned, upon an order of the justice, from the citizens of
the city or township, and not from the bystanders.

Sac. 543. At the time appointed for the trial, the justice
shall proceedto call, from the jurors summoned, the names
of the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue.
The jury, by consent of the parties, may consist or any number not more than six nor less than three. ‘

SEC. 544. If asufficient number of competent jurors do
not attend, the justice shall direct others to be summoned
from the vicinity, and not from the bystanders, sufficient to
complete the jury.

SEC. 545. Either party may challenge the jurors. The
challenges shall be either peremptory or for a cause. Each
party may challenge for cause, on any grounds set forth in

section number one hundred and sixty-two. Challenges for
cause shall be tried by the justice in a summary manner, who
may examine the juror challenged and witnesses.

CHAPTER IV. JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION. /

\

B30. 546. Judgment of dismissal without prejudice, in what cases entered.
547. Judgment by default.

5-18. Proceeding when jury trial not demanded.

549. Judgment, how and when entered.

550. Proceedings when amount due exceeds jurisdiction of justice.

551. Effect of defendant offering to allow judgment for specined sum.

552. Judgment when defendant is subject to arrest.

553. Costs to be included in judgment.

554 . How execution may be issued to sheriiih on judgment of justice, process

on judgment, how issued, lien of judgment.
555. Execution, form of.
557. How executed, examination of debtor on oath.

SEC. 546. Judgment that the action be dismissed without
prejudice to a new action may be entered, with costs, in the
following cases: First. When the laintiff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is fina ly submitted. Second.
When he fails to appear at the time ecified in the summons,
or upon adjournment, or within one our thereafter. Third.
When it is objected at the trial and appears by the evidence

. that the action is brought in the wron%county; but if the

objection be taken and overruled, it shall e cause only of reversal, on ap cal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the
judgment. not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed
waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.

S130. 547. When the defendant fails to appear and answer,
judgment shall be given for the laintiif, as follows: When
a copy of the account, note, bill? or other obligation upon
which the action is brought was filed with the justice at the
time the summons was issued, judgment shall be given, without further evidence, for the sum specified in the summons.

SEC. 548. Upon issue 'oined, if a ju tria1'be not demanded, the justice shall hear the evi ence, and decide
all questions of fact and of law, and render judgment
accordingly.

Ssc. 549. Upon a verdict, the justice shall immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the c ose
of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody; in other cases, it shall be entered within four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on contract
against two or more defendants, and the summons is served
on one or more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered
up on] against those who were served, if the contract be a
seve or a joint and several contract; but if the contract he
a joint contract onl , the judgment shall be entered up against
all the defendants, ut shall only be enforced against the 'oint
pmpeeiny of all, and the separate property of the defen nts
serv .

SEC. 550. When the amount found due to either party exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter
judgment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment
may be rendered for the residue.

SEC. 551. If the defendant, at any time before the trial,
offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken a ainst him
for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately ave judgment therefore, with the costs then accrued; but if he do not
accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the
action a sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but
costs shall be adjudged against him, and, if he recover, be
deducted from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accegt it shall not be given in evidence to effect the recovery,
ot erwise than as to costs, as above provided.

SEC. 552. When a judgment is rendered in a certain case
where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment
thereon, it shall be so stated in the judgment, and entered in
the docket.

Sec. 553, When the revailing party is entitled to costs by
this chapter, the justice s all add their amount to the verdict ;
or, in case of the failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case

of a dismissal of the action, shall enter up judgment in favor

of the defendant for the amount of such costs.

SEC. 554. The justice, on demand of the party in whose
favor the judgment is rendered, shall °ve him a transcript
thereof, which may be filed and docketeglin the oiiice of the
district clerk of the county where the judgment was rendered.
The time of the receipt of the transcript by the district clerk
shall be noted by him thereon and entered in the docket;

and from that time executions may be issued b the district

- clerk on such judgment to the sheriff of any ot er county of

the territory, in the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher courts. All process upon judgments
recovered in justices’ courts to be executed within the same
county, shall be issued b the justice or his successor in oiiice.
No judgment rendered y a. justice of the peace shall create
any lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript
of such judgment, certified by the justice, be filed and recorded in the office of the recorder. \Vhen such transcript
is to be filed in any other county than that in which the justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with the
certificate of the county clerk, as to the otiicial character of
the justice. \Vhen so filed and recorded in the oiiice of the
recorder for any county, such judgment shall constitute a lien
upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor situated in the county, where such transcript may be
filed and recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as
if such judgment had been rendered in the district court of
such county.

SEC. 555. Execution for the enforcement of judgment in a
justice’s court, may be issued on the application of the party
entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the entry
of the judgment.

SEC. 556. The execution, when issued by a justice, shall be
directed to the sheriff, or to a constable of the county, and
subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment was rendered,
or by his successor in office, and shall bear date the day of its
delivery to the oiiicer to be executed. It shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and
the name of the justice before whom, and of the county where,
and the time when, it was rendered; the amount of the judgment, if it be for money; and if less than the whole is due,
the amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases, similar directions to the sheriff or constable, as are required by the
provisins of title seven of this act, in an execution to the
sheriff.

SEC. 557. The sheriff or constable to whom the execution
is directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same
manner as the sheriff is required by the provisions of title
seven of this act, to roceed upon executions directed to him ;
and the constable, W en the execution is directed to him, shall
be vested for that purpose with all the power of the sheriff;
and, after issuing an execution, and either before or after its
return (if the same be returned unsatisfied, either in whole or
in part), the judgment creditor shall be entitled to an order
from the justice requirin the judgment debtor to attend at a
time to be designated in sic order, and answer concerning his
property before such justice, and the attendance of such dgbtor

may be enforced by the justice ; on his attendance, such debtor
may be examined under oath concerning his property, and any
person alleged to have in his hands property, monies, effects
or credits of the judgment debtor, may also be required to
attend and be examined; and the justice may order any property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or an other person, not exempt from execution, belon iug to sue debtor, to
be applied toward the satisfaction of t e judgment; and the
justice may enforce such order by imprisonment until complied with; but no judgment debtor, or other person, shall be
required to attend before the justice out of the county in which
he resides.

CHAPTER V.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Sac. 558. Applicable tojustices’ courts.
559. Docket, how to be kept.

580. Same, entries to be evidence, index to.
562 Dockets, with whom to be deposited.

563. Any justice may issue executions, creation of new counties or dhanged
of boundaries.

564. Who deemed successor.
566 Papers, how filled up.

567. Sickness of justice.
568. Special deputation to serve papers.

569. Authority of deputation.
570. Constable, when to complete execution of process.
571. Contempt, what acts to constitute.
572. When and how punished summarily, not in view of court.
573. Conviction for, how entered, justice may issue subpoenas.
575. Commisioners to take depositions.
576. lining claims in action, what evidence admissible.
New trial, for what cause granted.
Application for, how granted.
Appeal, how taken.
. Statement of party appealing.
. When action tried anew.
. Certided copy of docket to be transmitted.
. How made effectual, undertaklngand justiilcation of surcties.
. Stay of proceedings.
. Costs allowed to prevailing party.
. Justice, duty of in paying over money, penalty for failure.
Security for costs.
Justices’ courts, certain provisions applicable to.

‘ either party, and his decisions thereon. Fifth.

SEC. 558. Those provisions‘ of this act which are referred.
to in this title, and no other, shall, in addition to the provisions
embraced in this title, be applicable to justices’ courts and
proceedin thereinSEC, 55 . Every justice shall keep a book denominated a
docket, in which he shall enter: First. The title of every action or proceeding. Second. The object of the action or
proceeding, and if a sum of money be claimed, the amount
of the demand. Third. The date of the summons and the
time of its return, and if an order to arrest the defendant be
made, or a writ of attachment be issued, a statement of these
facts. Fourth. The time when the parties, or either of them,
appear, or their non-appearance if default be made ; a minute
of the pleadings and motions, if in writin , refering to them;
if not in writing, a concise statement of tge material parts of
the pleadings, and of all motions made durin the trial by

ilvery adjournment, stating on whose application, whether on oath, evidence,
or consent, and to what time. Sixth. The demand for a trial
by jury, when the same is made, and by whom made, the order
for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and return
of the jury. Seventh. The names of the jury, who ap ear
and are sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn, and atw ose
request. Ei hth. The verdict of the jury, and when received;
if the jury isagree and are dischar ed, the fact of such disagreement and discharge. Ninth. he judgment of the court,
s ecifying the costs included, and time when rendered. Tenth.
he issuing of the execution, when issued, and to whom, the
renewals thereof, if an ', and when made, and a statement of
any money aid to t e justice, and when, and by whom.
Eleventh. he receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the ap eal bond, if any be filed.

SEC. 560. he several particulars of the last section s ecined shall be entered, under the title of the action to w ich
they relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries
in a justice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the
justice or his successor in office, shall be primary evidence to
prove the facts so stated therein.

SEC. 561. A justice shall keep an alphabetical index to his
docket, in which shall be entered the names of the parties to
each judgment, with a reference to the page of entry. The
names of the laintiffs shall be entered in the index, in the
alphabetical or er of the first letter of the family names.

SEC. 562. It shall be the duty of every justice, upon the
expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor
his official dockets, as well his own as those of his predecessors, which ma be in his custody, to be kept as public
records. If the ce of a justice become vacant by his death
or removal from the township or city, or otherwise, before his
successor iselected and qualified, the dockets in possession of
such justice shall be deposited with the county clerk of the
county, to be by him delivered to the successor in ethos of the
justice.

Sac. 563. Any justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is deposited may issue execution or other process upon
a judgment there entered and unsatisiied, in the same manner
and Wlth the same effect as the justice by whom the judgment
was entered might have done. In case of the creation of a
new county or the chan e of the bounda between two
counties, any justice into w ose hands the doc et of a justice
formerly acting as such, within the same territory, ma come,
shall, for the purposes of this section, be considered t e successor of said former justice.

Sac. 564. The justice elected to fill a vacancy shall be
deemed the successor of the justice whose office became vacant
before the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires,
the same or another person elected to take office in the same
township, or cit , from that time shall be deemed the successor.

SEC. 565. en two or more °ustices are equally entitled
under the last section to be deemed the successor in oiiice of a
justice, the probate judge shall, by a certificate subscribed b
him, and filed in the oiiice of the county clerk, designate whic
justice shall be deemed the successor of a justice going out of
office, or whose oiiice has become vacant.

S130. 566. The summons, execution, and every other pap
made or issued b a justice, exce t a subpcsna, shall be til
pp wit(l11out a blan left to be filled y another, otherwise it shall

e V01 . .

SEC. 567. In case of sickness, or other disability or necessary absence of a justice on a return of summons, or at time
appointed for a trial, another justice of the same county may,
at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become vested with the power, for the time bein , of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable. n that case, the
proper ent of the roceedings before the attending justice,
subscribed y him, s all be made in the docket of the justice
before whom the summons was returnable.

SEC. 568. A 'ustice may, at the request of a party, and on
being satisfied t at it is expedient, specially depute any discreet person, of suitable age and not interested 1n the action,
to serve a summons or execution, with or without an order to
arrest the defendant, or, with or without a writ of attachment.

er
ed,

Said justice shall be liable on his otlicial bond for all official
acts of the erson so deputed. Such deputation shall be in
writing on t c rocess.

Size. 569. T e person so deputed shall have theauthority
of a constable in relation to the service, execution and return
of such process, and shall be snbj ect to the same obligations.

SEC. 570. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of
his term of oiiice, may proceed and complete the execution of
all final process which he has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he were still in office, and his sureties shall be
liable to the same extent.

SEC. 571. A. justice may punish, as for a contem t, persons
guilty of the followin acts and no others: First. lgisorderl ,
contemptuous or inso ent behavior toward the justice, while
holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a
trial or other judicial roceeding. Second. A breach of the
peace, boisterous con uct or violent disturbance in the presence of the justice or in the immediate vicinity of the court
held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceeding. Third. Disobedience or resistance
to the exeeutlon of a lawful order or process made or issued
by him. Fourth. Disobediance to a subpoena duly served, or
refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of any officer, by

vlrtue of an order or process of the court eld by him.

SEC. 572 When a contempt is committed in the immediate

view and presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily,
for which an order shall be made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the
person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and
that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the contem t is not committed in the immediate view and presence
of t e justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and
brouget before the justice immediately, when an opportunity
to be heard in his defense, or excuse, shall be given. The
justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of
the offense. A justice may punish for contem ts by fine or
imprisonment, or both; such fine not to excec in any case
one hundred dollars, and such imprisonment one day.

SEC. 573. The conviction, specifying particularl the offense and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by t e justice
in his docket.

SEC. 574. Justices of the peace may issue subpoenas in any
action or proceeding in the courts held bythem, and iina1process on any judgment recovered therein, to any part of the
county.

SEC. 575. Justices of the peace may issue commissions to
take depositions of witnesses out of the territory, and settle

interro etories to be annexed thereto, and direct the manner_

in whic the commissions shall be returned. The provisions
of title eleventh of this act, so far as the same are consistent
with the jurisdiction and powers of justices’ courts, shall be
applicable to justices’ courts, and to actions and proceedings
therein. _

SEC. 576. In actions respecting mining claims, proof shall
be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established
and in force in the mining district embracing such claim; and
such customs, usages, or regulations, when not in confiict with
the laws of this territory, shall govern the decision of the
action.

Sac. 577. A new trial may be granted by the justice on
motion, within ten days after the entry of judgment, for any
one of the following causes: First. Accident or supprise,
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
Second. Excessive damages, ap eating to ave been given
under the influence of passion. hird. Insufficienc of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision. ourth.
Newly discovered evidence, material for the part making the
application, which he could not, with reasona le diligence,
have discovered and produced at the time.

SEC. 578. The application shall be made upon affidavit and
notice. The atlidavlt shall be filed with the justice, with
a statement of the grounds upon which the party intends to
rely. The adverse party may use counter affidavits on the

_ motion, provided they be filed one day previous to the hearing

of the motion.

SEC. 579. Any party dissatisfied with a jud ent rendered
in a justice’s court, may appeal therefrom to t e district court
of the county, at any time within twent days after the rendition of judgment. The appeal shall e _ taken by filing a
notice of appeal with the justice, and serving-ha copy on the adEgrse plzlzrty. The notice shall state whether t e appeal is taken

In t e whole or a part of the judgment, and if from a part
whlat part, End whether the appeal is taken on questions of law,
or act, or 0th.

SEC. 580. When a party appeals to the district court on
questions of law alone, he shal within ten days of the rendinon of judgment, prepare a statement of the case and file the
same with the justice. The statement shall contain the
grounds on which the party intends to rely on the appeal, and

so much of the evidence as may be necessa to explain the
grounds and no more. Within ten days a°ter he receives
notice that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisiied with the same, may file amendments; the proposed
statement and amendments shall be settled by the justice, and
if no amendments be filed, the original statement shall be
adopted. The statement thus adopted, or as settled by the

justice, with a copy of the docket of the justice, and all motions filed with him by the parties during the trial, and the
notice of appeal, shall be used on the hearing of the appeal
before the district court.

SEC. 581. When a party appeals to the district court on
questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact, no
statement need be made, but the action shall be tried anew in
the district court. 7

SEC. 582. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on
payment of the fees of the justice, and filing an undertaking
as required in the next section, the justice shall, within five
days, transmit to the clerk of the district court, if the appeal
he on a question of law alone, a certified copy of his docket,
the statement as admitted, or as settled, the notice of appeal,
and the undertaking filed; or, if the a peal be on questions
of fact, or both law and fact, a certilie copy of his docket,
the pleadin s, all notices, motions, and other papers filed in
the cause, t e notice of appeal, and the undertaking filed;
and the justice may be compelled by the district court, by an
order entered u on motion, to transmit such papers, and may
be fined for neg ect or refusal to transmit the same; a certified
copy of such order may be served on the justice by the party
or his attorney. In the district court either party shall have
the benefit of all legal objections made in the justice’s court.

SEC. 583. An appeal from a justice’s court shall not be
effectual for any purpose unless an undertaking be filed, with
two or more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, for
the payment of the costs on the ap eal; or if a stay of proceedin s be claimed, in a sum equa to twice the amount of
the juggment, including costs, when the judgment is for the
payment of money, or twice the value of the property, including costs, when the judgment is for the recovery of specific
personal property; and shall be conditioned, when the action
is for the recover of money, that the applicant will pay the
amount of the 'u<lgment appealed from, and all costs, if the
appeal be with rawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment and all costs that may be recovered against him in said
action in the district court; where the action is for the recovery
of specific personal property, the undertaking shall be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and costs appealed from, and obey the order of the court made therein, if
the ap cal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any (judgment and
costs t at may be recovered against him in sai action in the
district court, and will obey any order made b the court
therein. The undertakin shall be accompanied y the affidavit of the sureties that they are residents of the county, and
are each worth the amount specified in the undertaking, over
and above all their ' just debts and liabilities, exclusive of proerty exempt from execution, or the bond shall be executed
hy a suilicient number of sureties, who can justify in the aggregate to an amount equal to double the amount specified in
the bond; or a deposit of the amount of the judgment
(iucludin the costs) appealed from, or of the value of the property, inc uding all costs, in actions for the recovery of specific
personal property, with the justice; and such deposit shall be
equivalent to the tiling of the undertaking in this act mentioned; and in such cases the justice shall transmit the money
to the clerk of the district court, to be by him paid out upon
the order of the court. The adverse party may, however,
except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five days after
filing of the undertaking, and unless they, or other sureties,
justify before the justice before whom the appeal is taken,
within five days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse party,
to the amount stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall be
rewarded as if no undertaking had been given.

§1-:c. 584. If an execution be issued on the iilin of the
undertaking, staying all proceedings, the justice s all, by
order, direct the oiiicer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer shall upon payment of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property
levied upon and deliver the same to the judgment debtor,
together with all monies collected from sales or otherwise.
If his fees be not paid, the oiiicer may retain so much of the
property, or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the
same.

SEC. 585. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in
a justice’s court.

Sac. 586. Justices of the peace shall receive from the
sheriff or constables of their county all monies collected on
any process or order issued by their courts respectively, and
all monies paid to them in their official capacity, and shall pay
the same over to the parties entitled or authorized to receive
them, without delay. For a violation of this section, they
may be removed from their office, and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. .

SEC. 587. Justices of the peace may, in all cases, require a
deposit of money or an undertaking, as security for costs of
court, before issuing a summons. _ . _

SEC. 588. The provisions of section thirty-two, three hundered and twenty-seven, three hundred and twenty-eight,
three hundred_ and twenty-nine, three hundred and thirty,
three hundred and thirty-one, three hundred and thirty-two,
four hundred and seventy-four, four hundred and seventy-five,
four hundred and seventy-eight, four hundred and eighty, four
hundred and eighty-one, four hundred and eicrhty-two, and
four hundred and eighty-six shall be applicab e to justice's
courts and actions therein.

TITLE XVIII.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

Sac. 589. Rules of court, how made.

590. Action against sheriff, etc.

591. Terms explained.

592. Suretics, how to justify.

593. Actions respecting mining claims in justices’ courts.
594. Duty of receiver.

595. Writs of certtorari, atc., by whom issued.
596. Sale of property under writ of attachment
597. Certitied copies of papers to be evidence.
598. Co-partners, when summoned in iirm’s name.
599. Decisions on appeal to be in writing, etc.
600. Substitution of real party defendant.

601. Intervention, when allowed.

602. Who may intervene.

608. How and what set forth.

604. Court to determine.

605. Testimony to he in writing.
606. When taken during postponement of trial.
607. Execution for costs.

SEO. 589. The supreme court may make rules, not inconsistent With the constitution and laws of the territory, for its
own government and the government of the district courts;
but such rules shall not be In force until thirty days after their
adoption and publication.

SEC. 590. If an action be brought against a sheriff for an
act done by virtue of his oilice, and he give written notice
thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received by
him, the judgment recovered therein shall be conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such sureties; and the
court or judge ID vacation may, on motion, upon notice of five
days, order judgment to be entered up against them for the
amount so recovered, including costs.

SEC. 591. Words used in this act in the present tense, shall
be deemed to include the future as well as the present; words
used in the singular number shall be deemed to include the
plural, and the plural the singular; writing shall be deemed
to include printing or printed paper; oath to include affirmation or declaration; signature or subscri tion to include mark
when the person cannot write, his name eing written near it,
and witnessed by a person who writes his own name as a
witness. .

SEC. 592. In all cases where an undertaking with sureties
is required by the provisions of this act, the judge, justice,
clerk, or other oilicer taking the same, shall require the sureties
to accompany the same w1th an affidavit that they are each
worth the sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all
their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt
from execution: Provided, That when the amount specified
in the undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there
are more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their
aiiidavits that they are severally worth amounts less than that
expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be
equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties.

SEC. 593. In actions respecting mining claims, in a justice’s

court, the justice shall have power, upon application of the 0

party out of possession of the claim or claims, after notice of
one day to the adverse party, to appoint a receiver of the proceeds of the claim, pending the action. If the parties agree
upon a person, he shall be appointed such receiver; if the
parties do not agree, the justice shall a point a receiver, who
shall take an oath, which shall be file with the justice, that

' he is not interested in the action between the parties, and that

he will honestly keep an account of all gold dust or metals of
any kind, the proceeds of the claims in dis ute’. After the
appointment of such receiver, the justice sha l have power to
issue a written order to any sherifl or constable, to put such
receiver into possession of such claim, which order said sheriff
or constable shall execute, and the receiver shall remain in
possession of the claim or claims so lon as the said action
may remain undetermined in any court. he court in which

the action may be pending, shall have the authority, upon the
application of either partyfwith two days’ notice to the other,
from time to time, to make such orders for the disposition of
the proceeds of such claim or claims, for the safety of the
same, as may seem proper. The court in which the action
may be pending, shall also have ower, upon application of
the receiver, based u on his aili avit, to punish, as for contempt, all persons w 0 have been guilty of disturbing the
receiver in the ossession of the claims. '

SEC. 594. e receiver mentioned in the last section shall
keep an accurate account of all the proceeds of the claim
pending the action, and of all amounts paid out for Working
the same, and shall retain the proceeds and pay the same over,

ursuant to the order of the court. The receiver shall also

e required, on demand of either party, to give security for
the faithful performance of his trust; and sha 1 be allowed for
the same a reasonable compensation, to be paid out of the proceeds of the claim in his hands, but in no case exceeding ten
per cent. upon such proceeds.

Sac. 595. Writs of certiorari and mandamus may be issued
in the cases prescribed by this act, by a judge of the supreme
court, district court, or probate court, in vacations; and may,
in the discretion of the judge issuing the writ, be made returnable, and a hearing may be had on the return thereof in the
vacation.

Sac. 596. Whenever property has been taken by an officer,
under a writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of
this act, and it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the
court, ora judge thereof, or a rebate judge, that the interest
of the parties to the action wil be subserved by a sale thereof,
the court or judge may order such property to be sold, in the
same manner as proper? is sold under an execution, and the
proceeds to be deposite in court, to abide the judgment in
the action. Such order shall be made only upon notice to the

‘adverse party or his attorney, in case such party has been personally served with a summons in the action.

Sac. 597. A copy of an record or document or paper in
the custody of a public 0 cer of this territory, or of the
United States within this territory, certified under the oiiicial
seal, or verified by the oath of such officer, to be a true, full
and correct copy of the original in his custody, may be read in
evidence in an action or proceeding in the courts of this territory, in the like mannner, and with the like effect as the
original could be, if produced.

Size. 598. When two or more persons, associated in any
business, transact such business under a common name,

whether it comprise the names of such persons or not, the
associates may be sued by such common name, the summons
in such cases being served on one or more of the associates ;
but the jud ment in such cases shall bind only the joint
property of t e associates.

Sac. 599. All decisions given upon an appeal, in any appellate court in this territory, shall be given 1n Writing, with
the reasons therefore, and filed with the clerk of the court; but
this section shall not apply to actions tried with a jury anew
in the district court on an appeal from a justice’s court.

SEC. 600. A defendant, against Whom an action is pending
upon a contract or for specific personal property, may, at any
time before answer, upon aiiidavit that a person not a party to
the action makes against him, and without any collusion with
him, a demand‘ upon the same contract or for the same property, upon due notice to such person and the adverse party,

a ply to the court for an order to substitute such person in his

p e, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his
dc ositing in court the amount claimed on the contract, or
degvering‘ the property or its value to such person as the court
maiy direct; and .the court may, in its discretion, make the
or er.

SEC. 601. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action, who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the
success of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
against both. An intervention takes place when a third person
is permitted to become a party to an action between other
persons, either by joining the plaintifff in claimin what is
sought by the comp ainant, or by uniting with the c efendant
in resisting the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant.

SEC. 602. Any third person may intervene either before or
after issue has been joined in the cause.

SEC. 603. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint Iiled in the court-in which the action is pending, and it
must set forth the grounds on which the intervention rests. A
copy of the petition or complaint shall be served upon the
parties to the action against whom anything is demanded,
who shall answer as if it were an original complaint in the
action.

SEC. 604. The court shall determine upon the intervention

rat the same time that the action is decided ; if the claim of the

party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs
mcurred by the intervention.

SEO. 605. On the trial of any action in a court of record, at
the request of either party, the court may, in its discretion,

appoint a competent person to take down the testimony in
writing. .

Sac. 606. The par? obtaining the postponement of a trial
in any court of recor , shall also, if required by the adverse
party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken by deposition
before a judge or clerk of the court in which the cause is pending, or before such notary ublic as the court may indicate,
which shall accordingly be clbne, and the testimon so taken
may be read_ on_the trial with the same effect, an subject to
the same object1ons, as If the wltness were produced.

SEC. 607. Whenever costs are, awarded to a party by an
appellate court, such party _may have an execution for the
same, on filing a remittitur w1th the clerk of the court below,
and it shall be the duty of such clerk, whenever the remititur‘
is filed, to issue the execution upon application therefore; and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
court, such party may have an execution therefore inlike manner
as upon a judgment.

CONCERNING COURTS OF’ JUSTICE OF THIS TERRITORY AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

SEC. 608. The following shall be the courts of justice of this
territory: First. The supreme court. Second. The district
courts. Third. The probate courts. Fourth. The justices’
courts. '

SUPREME COURT.

SEC. 609. The supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction in all civil cases where the amount in dispute exceeds in
value one hundred dollars, and in all criminal cases tried in
district courts; and shall hold its sessions at the capital, at the
times fixed by law.

DISTRICT COURTS.

Sec. 610. The territory shall be divided into three judicial

districts. A
Sac. 611. There shall be a district. judge for each of the

judicial districts. The courts held by them shall be the district
courts of the territory.

SEC. 612. The jurisdiction of these courts shall be of two
kinds : First. Original. Second. Appellate.

SEC. 613. The district court shall have original jurisdiction
in civil cases where the amount in dispute exceeds one hundred
dollars, and in all criminal cases not otherwise provided for.

Provided, The district court may enter jud ent fora less sum
than one hundred dollars upon the plainti "s paying costs. .

81:0. 614. The appellate jurisdiction of these courts shall
extend to hearing upon appeal, an order or judgment of a probate court or justice of the peace, in the cases prescribed by
statute. Site. 615. The courts and judges thereof shall have power
to issue all writs necessary or. roper to the complete exercise
of the power conferred upon them by the constitution and the
or ic act.

‘:0. 616. The terms shall be held at such times and places
as provided by law; if a room for holding the court be not
provided by the county, together with attendants, fuel, lights
and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of
business, the court may direct the sheriff to provide such -room,
attendants, fuel, lights and stationery, and the expenses shall
be a county charge.

830. 617. The district judges shall, at all reasonable times,
when not engaged in holdin courts, transact such business at
their chambers as may be one out of court, at chambers;
they may try and determine writs of mandamus, certiorari, and
qou warranto, hear and dispose of all a plications for? orders
and writs, which are usually granted, in t e first instance, upon
an ea: parts application ; and may, in their discretion, also hear
applications to discharge such orders and Writs.

no. 618. Whenever an action or proceedin is commenced
in a district court, in which a probate court as concurrent
jurisdiction, the district court may, if the parties consent, by
order, transfer the same to the probate court of the same
county ; upon such transferrence, the probate court shall have
and exercise over such action or proceeding the same jurisdiction as if originally commenced therein.

Sec. 619. Each district court shall have power. to make
rules, not inconsistant with the constitution and laws of this
territory, for its own government and the government of its
oiiicers, but such rules shall not be in. force until thirty days
after their adoption and publication, and no rule shall be made
im sing any tax or charge upon any legal proceeding, or
mgng an allowance to any officer for servlces.

THE PROBATE COURTS.

B20. 620. There shall be in each county a probate court,
with the 'urisdiction conferred by this chapter.

830. 6&1. The ‘probate court shall have power to open and
receive the proof 0 last wills and testaments, and to admit them

to probate; to grant letters testamentary, of administration,
and of guardianship, and to revoke the same, for cause shown,
according to law; to compel executors, administrators and
guardians to render an account when required, or at the period
lixed by law; to order the sale of property of estates, or belonging to minors; to order the payment of debts due by
‘estates; to order and regulate all partitions of property or
estates of deceased persons ; to compel the attendance of witnesses; to awpoint appraisers or arbitrators; to compel the
production 0 title deeds, papers, or other property of an estate,
or of a minor; and to make such other orders, as may be necessary and proper, in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred
upon the probate court.

Site. 622. The probate judge shall have power in vacation
to a point appraisers; to receive inventories and accounts. to
be ti ed in his court; to suspend the powers of executors, administrators or guardians, in the cases allowed by law; to
grant letters of administration or guardianship; to approve
claims and bonds, and to direct the issuance from this court
of all writs and process necessary, in the exercise of his powers
as robate jud e.

 623. '1ghe probate court shall have original civil jurisdiction: First. Of an action to enforce the lieu of mechanics
and others. Second. It shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with the district court of the territory, in all civil actions
when the amount in controversy shall not. exceed five hundred
dollars. The probate court, and the judge thereof, shall have
power at chambers to try and determine suits of mandamus,
certiorari, and quo warrants, and to issue all Writs necessary or
proper to the complete exercise of the powers conferred upon
it by this and other statutes, and in the absence of the district
judge from the county, to issue Writs of habeas corpus and injunction. If a room for holding the court he not provided by
the county, together with attendants, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and sufficient for the transaction of business,
the court may direct- the sheriff to procure such room, attendants, fuel, light, and stationery, and the expenses thereof
shall be a county charge. ~

SEC. 624. A regular term of the probate court shall be held at
the county seat of each county, commencing on the fourth
Monday in January, April, July, and October, for the transaction of all business of which said court has jurisdiction:
Provided, however, That if the district court of the district embracing any county be in session at such time, the probate
court of the county in which said district court is held, shall
stand adjourned until the first Monday of the ensuing month.

330. 625. That if said court shall not be held on the first
day of the term, such court shall stand adjourned from day to
day until the evening of the third day. If at that time the
jud shall not have appeared and opened court, the same
shal stand adjourned until the next regular term. Special
adjourned terms may be held in continuation of the regular
term, upon its bein so ordered by the court in term time, and
entered by the cler upon the record of the court.

Sec. 626. In all actions, the jurisdiction of which has been

' en by this act to the probate courts, the party plaintifff shall,
glefore his complaint and notice, writ, record or papers upon
which his action is founded, be filed by the clerk, pay into the
hands of said clerk a docket fee of ten dollars, which shall be

pgld to the probate judge by the clerk, and no docket fee shall
-allowed attorneys in the probate court. '

Sec. 627. That if the judge be disqualified for any cause
from sitting on the determination of any cause or roceeding
pending before him, the same shall be certified wit the or’ 'nal papers to the district court of the district including t e
county, which shall proceed thereon to final judgment and
determination.

Sac. 628. That each judge of the probate court shall be a
conservator of the eace throughout his county.

Site. 629. In all civil cases within their urisdiction, the
probate courts and the judges thereof shall] have the same
power to grant all orders, writs and process which the district
courts or the judges thereof have power to grant within their
jurisdiction, and to hear and determine all questions arising
within their jurisdiction, as fully and completely as the district
courts or the judges thereof have power to do under the laws
of this territo .

S130. 630. uries in all civil actions in the probate courts
shall consist of six persons having the qualifications of electors,
who shall not be summoned until the cause is at issue and set
for trial, and a demand is made in writing therefore by one or
more ot' the parties, and their legal fees paid into the hands of
the clerk by the party making the demand.

Sac. 631. The clerk shall issue a venire returnable on the
day upon which the cause is set for trial, and if on the return
day the anel be not full, it may be filled by summoning talesmen. 0 challenges shall be allowed either party except for
cause.

msrtéss’ cocars.

Sac. 682. The courts held by justices of the peace in this
territory, shall be denominated justices’ courts, and shall have

$

the urisdiction conferred by this act, but nothing contained
in this act shall affect their jurisdiction in actions or proceedin « now pendin therein, nor shall it affect any judgment or
015:1‘ already m e, or proceedin already taken.

SEC. 633. Justices’ courts shal have jurisdiction of the fol‘lowing actions and proceedings: First. Of an action arising
on contracts for the recovery of mone onl , if the sum
claimed does not exceed one hundred dol rs. ‘econd. Of an
action for damages for injury to the_ person, or for taking or

. detaining personal propert ', or for injuring real or ersonal

property, if the damages c aimed do not exceed one undred

I ollars. Third. Of an action for a fine, penalty or forfeiture,

not exceeding one hundred dollars, given by statute, or the
ordinance of an incorporated city. Fourth. Of an action
upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money not exceeding one hundred dollars though the penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due;
when the payments are to be made by installments, an action
may be brought for each installment as it becomes due. Fifth.
Of an action upon a surety bond or nndertakin taken by
them, though the penalty exceed, if the amount cfaimed does
not exceed one hundred dollars. Sixth. Of an action for the
foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any lien
on real or personal roperty, when the debt secured does not
exceed one hundr dollars. Seventh. Of an action to recover the possession of personal property, when the value of
such roperty does not exceed one hundred dollars. Eighth.
To ta e and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant
when the amount confessed does not exceed one hundred dollars. Ninth. Of an action for a forcible or unlawful entry
upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tenements,
or other possessions. Tenth. Of an action to determine the
right to a mining claim, and for damages for injury to the
same, when the dama es claimed do not exceed one hundred
dollars. Eleventh. f proceedings respecting vagrants and
disorderly persons. .

SEC. 634. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section
shall not extend, however, to a civil action in which the title
to real propert shall come in question.

SEC. 635. ’lYhese courts shall also have jurisdiction of the
followin public otfenses, committed within the res ective counties in w ich such courts are established: First. etit larceny.
Second. Assault and battery, not char ed to have been committed upon a public officer in the disc ar e of his duties, or
with intent to kill. Third. Breaches o the peace, riots,
affrays, committing a willful injury to property, and all misdemeanors, punishable by fine, not exceeding five hundred dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding six months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.

Snc. 636. There shall be no terms in justices’ courts; these
courts shall be always open.

SEC. 637. Each justice, before entering upon the discharge
of his duties, shall take the constitutional oath of office, and
shall execute a bond to the territory, in the sum of two thousand dollars, conditioned for the faithful erformance of his
duties, and file the same with the county c erk.

GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING THE COURTS OF JUSTICE AND JUDICIAL
OFFICERS.

Sec. 638. The supreme court, the several district courts,
and the several probate courts of this territory shall be courts
of record.

SEC. 639. The sittings of every court of justice shall be
public, except as is provided in the next section.

SEC. 640. In an action for divorce, the court may direct
the trial of any issue of fact joined therein to be(private, and
upon such directions, all persons may be exclude , except the
officersl of the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.

SEC. 641. Every court shall have power—-First. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence. Second.
To enforce order in the proceedin s before it, or before a person or persons empowered to con not a judicial investigation
under its authority. Third. To compel obedience to its lawful judgments, orders and process, and to the lawful orders
of its jud e out of court, in an action or proceeding pending
therein. §‘ourth. To control, in furtherance of justice, the
conduct of its ministerial officers.

PARTICULAR DISQUALII-‘ICATION OF JUDGES.

Sec. 642. A judge shall not act as such in any of the following cases: First. In an action or proceeding ‘to which
he is a party or in which he is interested. Second. When he
is related to either party, by consan uinity or affinity, within
the third degree. Thlrd. When 6 c has been attorney or
counsel for either party in the action or proceeding. But this
section shall not apply to the arrangement of the calendar or
the regulation of the order of business.

Sac. 643. A judge shall not act as attorney or counsel in a
wurt in which he is jud e, or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom to anot er court for review, or in any action

or proceeding from which an appeal may lie in his own
court.

SEC. 644. A judge of the supreme court or of the district
court shall not act as attorney or counsel in any court, except in an action or proceeding to which he is a party on the
record.

SEC. 645. A judge or justice of the peace shall not have
a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any court in this
territory.

JUDICIAL DAYS AND PLACES OF HOLDING COURTS.

SEC. 646. The court’-'. of justice may be held and judicial
business may be transacted on any day except as provided in
the next section.

SEC. 647. N o court shall be opened, nor shall any judicial
business be transacted on Sunday, on New Year’s da , on the
Fourth of July, on Christmas day, on Washini ton’s irthday,
on Thanksgiving day, or on a day in which t re general election is held, except for the following purposes: First. 'l‘o
give, upon their request, instructions to a jury then deliberating on their verdict. Second. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury. Third. For the exercise of the powers of a
ma 'strate in a criminal action, or in a proceeding of a crimina nature; Provided, That when the day fixed for opening a
court shall fall on any of the days mentioned in this section,
the court shall be opened on the next or succeeding day.

SEC. 648. Every court of justice, except a just1ce’s, shall
sit at the county seat of the county in which it is held, except
in cases provided by law, a proved December eighteenth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-giree. N 0 justice of the peace

shall hold a court in any other county or city than the one for
which he shall have been elected.

SEALS OF THE COURTS OF JUSTICE.

SEC. 649. Each of the following courts, and no others, shall
have a seal: First. The supreme court. Second. The district courts. Third. The probate courts.

SEC. 650. The clerk of each court shall keep the seal
thereof. *

Size. 651. The seal of the court need not be affixed to any
proceeding; therein, except—First. To a summons or writ.
becond. o the proof of a will, or the appointment of an
executor, administrator or guardian. Third. To the authentication of a copy of a record, or other proceeding of the

court, or an oiiicer thereof‘, for the purpose of evidence in
another court.
Sac. 652. The seal may be aifixed by impressing it on the

paper, or on a substance attached to the paper, and capable
of receiving the impression.

‘»

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS RBSPECTING COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

SEC. 653. If an application for an order, made to a judge
of a court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be
refused in whole or in part, or be granted condltionally, no
subsequent application for the same order shall be made to
any other judge, except of a higher court; Provided, That
nothin in this section be so construed as to apply to motions
refuse for any informality in the papers or proceedings
necessar to obtain an order.

SEC. 54. A violation of the last section may be punished
asa contempt; and an order made contrary thereto may be
revoked by the jud e who made it, or vacated by a judge
of a court in which 1: e action or proceeding is pending.

SEC. 655. The judges of the supreme court, of the district courts and of the probate courts shall have power in any
part of the territory, and justices of the peace within their
respective counties, shall have power to take and certify-—
First. The proof and acknowledgement of a conveyance of
real property, or of any other written instrument. Second.
The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment of any
court. Third. An affidavit to be used in any court of justice
of this territory.

SEC. 656. No action orvproceeding in a court of justice
shall be affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the
judges, or by the failure of a term thereof.

SEC. 657. Every written proceeding in a court of justice in
this territory, or before a ju icial oiiicer, shall be in the En lish language; but such ‘abbreviations as are now common y
used in that language may be used, and numbers may be expressed by figures or numerals, in the customary manner.

FORCIBLR ENTRY AND UNLAWFUL DETAINER.

. Entry into lands, how made.

' . Justice of the peace may inquire into, and have restitution.
. Proceedings on complaint to justice.
. Proceedings when defendant absent from county.
. Adjournment of trial, when to be made.

. Testimony, how taken.

Ste. 666. What complainant required to show, what defendant may show in defense.

667. Proceedings on decision of case.

668. When jury cannot agree.

,669. Damages, rents, atc., on verdict for complaint.

670. Proceedings against tenants holding over.

671. Preceding article not applicable to certain cases.

672. Penalty for not attending as a juror or witness.

673. Appeals, when and how to be taken.

67¢. Appeal to stay proceedings and trial, statement of case not necessary.
675. Appeal to stay proceedings on writ of restitution.

676. Matter of form immaterial.

677. Amendments to pleadings.

678. Summons, form of.

679. Form of writ of restitution.

SEC. 658. No person or persons shall hereafter make any
entry into lands, tenements or other possessions, but in cases
where entry is given by law; and in such cases not with strong
band nor with multitude of people, but only in a peaceable
manner; and if any person from henceforth do to the contrary,
and thereof be duly convicted, he shall be unished by hue.

SEC. 659. Any Justice of the peace.shal have authority to
in uire, as hereinafter directed, as well against those who make
nu awful or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, and detain the same, as againstthose who, having
lawful and eaceful entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, un awfully detain the same; and if it be found, upon
such inquiry, that an unlawful or forcible entry hath been
made, and that the said lands, tenements, or other possessio
after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then such Justice shal
cause the arty complaining to have restitution thereof‘.

SEC. 666). When any complaint shall be made in writing
to any justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry,
or unlawful detaincr, said justice shall issue a summons,
directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the person or persons against whom
such complaint shall have been made, to appear before the
said justice on a day in such summons named, which shall not
be more than ten days from the issuing of such summons, and
at the place therein mentioned.

SEC. 661. Such summons shall be served n on the person
or persons against whom the same is issued, y delivering a
certified copy thereof to such person or persons at least four
days before the return da thereof; and the officer serving the
same shall make a specia return of the time and manner of
serving such summons.

Sec. 662. After the return of the summons, served as

hereinbefore provided, and at the time and place ap ointed in
said summons, the justice shall proceed to hear and etermine
said complaint, unless either party shall demand a jury; in
which case, the justice shall issue a venire for a jury, in the same
manner, and upon the same terms, as in other cases provided
for trial by jury in justices’ courts, and such jury shall e sworn
as in other cases.

SEC. 663. If, at the time of making such complaint, it shall
be made to appear that such person or persons against whom
said complaint is made, or either of them, are absent from the
county, it shall be the duty of the justice before whom the
same 18 made, to issue his summons, as hereinbefore provided,
and the same may he served by leavin a certified copy thereof
at the last and usual place of abode 0 such person or ersons,
not less than four days before the return day thereo , which
copy shall be left with some member of the family, or some
person residing at such place, of suitable age and discretion,
to whom the contents thereof shall be explamed. by the officer
leaving the same, and the officer shall make a special return
of the time and manner of serving said summons, and the suit
shall thereafter proceed the same as though a personal service
were had of such summons.

SEC. 664. The justice may, in his discretion, adjourn any
trial under this act, not exceedin ten days; and when the defendant, his agent or attorney, s all make oath that he cannot
safely proceed to trial, for want of some material witness,
nammg him, that he has made due exertion to obtain such
witness, and believes, if an adjournment be allowed, he will
be able to procure the attendance of such witness, or his
deposition, In time to produce the same upon the trial, in
which case, if such person or persons will give bond, with one
or more sufficient sureties, conditioned to pay the said complainant for all rent that ma accrue during the pending of
such suit, and all costs and ama es consequent upon such
adjournment, the said justice sha l adjourn said cause for
such reasonable time as may appear necessary, not exceeding
three months. '

SEC. 665. The testimony of any witness, which may be
considered necessary b elther party, may be taken in the
same manner, and Wi the like effect, as is provided for the
taking of testimon in other cases in justices courts.

SEC. 666. On t e trial, the complainant shall only be required to show, in addition to the forcible entry or detainer
complained of, that he was peaceably in actual possession at
the time of a forcible entry, or was entitled to the possession
of the premises at the time of a forcible holding over. The

defendant may show in his defense that he, or his ancestors,
or those Whose interest in such premises he claims, -have been
in quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole year
together next before the said inquisition, and that his interest
therein is not then ended or determined, and such showing
shall be a bar to the prosecution; and in no case when the
title of land is necessarily involved, shall a justice of the peace
have co izance.

SEO. 67. If upon the trial of any complaint under this act,
the justice or jury shall find the defendant or defendants, or
either of them, guilty of the allegations in the complaint, said
'ustice shall there_upon enter judgment for the complainant to

ave restoration of the premises, and shall impose such fine,
not exceeding one hundred dollars, considering all the circumstances, as he may deem just, and shall tax the costs for the
complainant, and may issue execution therefore; and the said
justice shall award and issue a writ of restitution; but if the
said justice or jury iind that the person complained of is not
guilty, the justice shall tax the costs against the complainant,
and issue execution therefore.

SEO. 668. If the jury empanneled cannot agree upon a
verdict, the justice may, with the consent of the parties, discharge them, and issue a venire returnable forthwith, or at

some other time agreed upon by the parties.
SEC. 669. In all cases of a verdict by the justice or jury for

the complainant, the damages shall be assessed as wel for
waste and injury committed upon the premises, as for the
rents and profits during such detainer, and the verdict shall
also find the monthly va ue of the rents and profits of the said
premises; and the complainant shall be entitled to recover
treble damages against the persons against whom judgment
has been rendered, which damages shall be assessed by the
justice or jury, and when so assessed shall be trebled by said
justice, and entered as a judgment in the cause, upon which
execution may issue.

SEC. 670. When any person shall hold over any lands,
tenements, or other possessions, after the termination of the
time for which they are demised, or let him or her, or to the
person under whom he or she holds possession, or contrary to
the conditions or covenants of the lease or a reement under
which he or she holds, or after any rent shall ecome due according to the terms of such lease or agreement, and shall
remain unpaid for the space of three days; in all such cases, if
the lessor, his heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, agent,
or attorney, shall make demand in Writing of such tenant, that
he or she shall deliver possession of the premises held as afore' in the case shall be thereby staye

said, and if such tenant shall refuse or neglect. for the ‘space
of three days after such demand, to quit the possession of such
lands or tenements, or to pay the rent thereof, due and unpaid
as aforesaid, upon complaint thereof to any justice of the peace
of the proper county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try,
and determme the same, in the same manner as in other cases
herein before provided for, but shall impose no line upon any
such case mentioned in this section.

See. 671. The preceding section shall not extend to any
person who has, or shall have continued in possession one
year after the termination of the time for which the premises
were demised, or leased, or let to him or her, or those under
whom he or she holds possession, or to any person who continues in possession three years, quietly and peaceably.

SEC. 672. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpm-ned as a witness, who shall not appear, or who, appearing,
shall refuse to serve or give evidence in any rosecution instituted under this act, shall forfeit and pay or every such
default, or refusal, to the use of the county, unless some reasonable cause be assigned, such fine, not exceeding twenty dollars,

as the said justice shall think proper to impose, and execution
may be issued ‘therefore.

SEC. 673. If either party shall feel a grieved by the verdict
of the jury, or decision of the justice, e may appeal within
ten days, as in other cases tried before justices of the peace,
to the district court, and he shall 've bond, with two or more
sufficient sureties, to be approve by said justice, conditioned
to pay all costs of such appeal, and abide the order the court
may make therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly
accruin during the pending of such ap eal; and upon the
tiling 0% the notice of appeal, and the a davit of the appellant that the appeal is taken in good faith, and that he intends
to perfect said appeal, the justice shall grant a stay of the writ
of restitution for not exceeding two days, for the pur ose of

allowing the appellant an opportunity to file his appea bond,
and for no other.

SEC. 674. Upon taking such appeal, all further proceedings

, and the appellate court, in
all cases which are now pending, or which may hereafter be
brought, shall proceed to try the case anew, and shall issue all
necessa writs and process to cart out the provisions of this
act. Al laws, or parts of laws, w ich require a statement of
the case, or evidence, or exceptions, to be taken before a justice of the peace, on the trial of a case for forcible entry and
unlawful detainer, in order to perfect an appeal, are hereby

repealed, and the same shall be tried in the appellate court on H

the evidence introduced before said appellate court.

SEC. 675. If a writ of restitution shall have been issued
previous to the taking of the a eal, the justice shall give the
appellant a certificate of the a Ihwance of such a peal; and
upon the serving of such certificate u on the o cer having
such writ of restitution, said oiiicer sha l cease all further proceedings by virtue of such writ, and if such writ shall not
have been completely executed, the parties in possession shall
remain in (possession of the premises until the appeal shall be
determine .

SEC. 676. In all cases of appeal under this act, the appellate

— court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedings for want of

form, only provided the roceedings have been conducted
substantially according to the provisions of this act.

SEC. 677. Amendments to the complaint, answer, or summons, in matters of form only, may be allowed by the court
at any time before final judgment, upon such terms as may be
just, and all matters of excuse, justification, or avoidance of
the allegations in the complaint, may be given in evidence
under the answer.

SEC. 678. The following, or equivalent forms, may be used
in proceedings under this act, to wit:

BUMHONS.

The eoplc of the United States, of the Territory of Idaho,
to the s eriff or any constable of the county aforesaid:

Wnnnus, A. B., of the county of , hath exhibited
unto me, a justice of the peace for said county, a com laint
a ainst O. D., of the county of , for that the said . D.,
0% the county of , on the —— day of , A. D. —,
at the county of , [here insert the substance of the complaint, with sufiicient certainty.] You are thereforee commanded to summon the said O. D., if he be found in your
county, to be and appear before me, at my office (or statin
the place), on the day of -—, A. D. , then an
there to make answer unto the com laint aforesaid. Given
under my hand and seal, this —— ay of , A. D. .

E. F., justice of the peace.

WRIT OF RESPITUTION.

SEC. 679. The people of the United States, of the Territory of Idaho, to the sheriff or any constable of the county
aforesaid:

WHEREAS, A. B., of the county of ————, at a court of inqui of an unlawful or forcible entry, or unlawful detainer
(as e case may bef, held at my oiiice (or state the place), in
the county aforesai , on the —— day of —, A. D., , before me, a justice of the peace for the county aforesaid, by the
consideration of the court, hath recovered 'udgment against
C. D., to have restitution of [here describe e premises, as in
the complaint] You are thereforee commanded that, taking
with you the force of the county, if necessary, you cause the
said O. D. to be immediately removed from the aforesaid
premises, and the said A. B. to have peaceable restitution
of the same ; and you are also commanded that, of the goods
and chattels of the said C. D., within said county, you cause
to be made the sum of -——- dollars for the said plaintifff,
together with costs of suit indorsed thereon, and make return hereof within thirty days from this date. Given under

.mfy hand this —- day of , A. D. . E. F., justice
0 the peace. '

ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

. Actions by tenants in common.
. Complaint, what to set forth.
. Who need not be made parties.

. Notice to he died in recorders office.
. To whom summons directed.

. Publication of.

Answers, what to set forth.

. Right of parties may be determined.
. Certificates as to liens on property.

. Persons holding liens to be made parties.
. Notice to be given.

. Sale of property, when may be ordered.
. Partition, how to be made.

. Report of referees.

. Judgment on, effect of.

. Expenses of referees.

. Lien on undivided interest.

. lhtate for life or years, how set off.

. Proceeds of sale of incumbered property how applied.

700 When there are other securities.

701. Proceeds, how to be distributed.
70!. Determination of conflicting claims.
703. Sales, how made.

706. How tenant for life, etc., may receive satisfaction for estate sold.

Bsc. 709. Contingent future right or estate, how settled.

710. Terms and mode of sale.

711. Certain parties not to be interested in purchase, report of sale.
713. Order to execute conveyance.

714. Where party entitled to share purchases.

715. Conveyance, where recorded and elfect.

716. Disposition of proceeds of sale, unknown owner is interested.
718. Duty of referees in relation to partition, etc.

720. Compensation when partition is unequal.

721. Proceeds of sale, infant's share paid to guardian.

722. Proceeds of sale, share of insane person.

723. Partition may be consented to by guardian.

724. Cost of partition.

725. Single referee may be appointed.

726. Mining claims. partition of, how made.

727. lining claims, sale injurious, court to appoint commissioners.
728. How sold, purchasers, who deemed.

730. Claims bid for to be segregated.

732. Court may dispose of report of commission.
733. Commissioners expenses, etc.

SEC. 680. When several persons hold and are in possession
of real property, as joint tenants or as tenants in common, in
which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or
for life or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by one

or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according to
the respective rights of the persons interested therein ; a.nd for
a sale of such property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.
SEC. 681. The interests of all persons in the property,
Whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth
in the complaint, specifically and particularly, as far as known
to the plaintifff; and if one or more of the parties, or the share
or quantity of interest of any of the parties, be unknown to
the laintiif, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership
of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the
remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.
SEC. 682. No persons who have or claim any liens upon the
property, b mortgage, judgment or otherwise, need be made
parties to t e action, unless such liens be matters of record.
SEC. 683. Immediatel after tiling the complaint, the
plaintifff shall file with t e recorder of the county in which
the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action
containing the names of the parties, so far as known, the
object of the action, and a description of the props to be

attected thereby. From the time of the filing, it s all be
deemed notice to all persons.

Sac. 684. The summons shall be directed to all the joint
tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having any
interest in or any liens of record, by mortgage, judgment or
otherwise, u on the ropexlry, or upon any particular portion
thereof; an genera ly to -1 persons unknown, who have or
claim any interest in the property.

SEC. 685. If a arty having a share or interest is unknown,
or any one of the Enown partles reside out of the territory, or
cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by
allidavit, the summons may be served on such absent or unknown party by ublication, as in other cases. When the
publication 1s ma e, the summons, as published, shall be accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the
subject of the action.

Sac. 686. The defendants who have been personally served
with the summons and a certified copy of the complaint, shall
set forth in their answers, fully and particularly, the nature
and extent of their interest in the property; and if such defendants claim a lien upon the pro erty, by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, they shall state t e amount and date of the
same; and the amount remaining due thereon, and whether
the amount has been secured in any other way or not; and if
secured, the extent and nature of the security, or they shall
be deemed to have waived their right to such lien.

SEC. 687. The rights of several parties, laintiifs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried and etermined by such
action; and when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title
shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court,
before the judgment of sale shall be made; and where service
of the complaint has been made by publication, like proof
shall be required of the right of the absent or unknown
parties, before such judgment is rendered; except that where

‘there are several unknown persons having an interest in the

pro erty, their rights may be considered together inthe action,
an not as between themselves.

SEC. 688. The plaintifff shall produce to the court, on the
hearing of the case, the certificate of the recorder of the
county where the property is situated, showing whether there
were or not any liens outstanding of record upon the property, or any part therof, at time of the commencement of
the action.

SEC. 689. If it appears by the certificate of the recorder
that there were outstanding liens of record at the time of the
commencement of the action, and the persons holding or
claiming such liens were not made parties to the action, the
court shall either order such parties to be brought in by an

amendment, or supplemental complaint, or appoint a referee
to ascertain whether their liens have been aid; or if not aid,
what amount remains due, and their or er among the iens
held by the parties who have appeared and answered; and
whether the amount remaining due thereon has been secured
in any way, and if secured, the extent and nature of the
security.

SEC. 690. The plaintifff shall cause a notice to be served a
reasonable time (previous to the day for appearance before the
referee appointe , as provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to
the action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof by his own affidavit or otherwise of’ the
true amount due, or to ecome due, contin gently or absolutely
thereon. In case such erson be absent, or his residence be
unknown, service may e made by publication, or notice to
his ent, under the direction of the court, in such manneras
may e proper. The report of the referee thereon shall be
made to the court, and shall be conhrmed, modified, or set
aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case
may require. .

SEC. 691. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be established b evidence, or if it appear by the evidence without
such al egation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the
court, that the property, or any part of it, is so situated that
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners, the court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon
the requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition,
according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained
by the court, and appoint three referees therefore; and shall
designate the portion to remain undivided, for the owners
Whose interests remain unknown or are not ascertained.

SEC. 692. In making the partition, the referees shall divide
the property, and allot the several portions thereof to the
respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered,
according to the respective rights of the parties, as determined
by the court, designatin the several portions by proper landmarks; and may emp oy a surveyor, with the necessary
assistants, to aid them therein.

SEC. 693. The referees shall make a report of their roceedin s, specifying therein the manner of executin t eir
trust, escrlbing the propert divided, and the shares a otted
to each party, with a particu ar description of each share.

Sec. 694. The court may confirm or set aside the report,
and if necessary appoint new referees. Upon the report being
confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be

e§'ectual forever; which judgment shall be binding and conclusive: First. On all persons named as parties to the
action, and their legal representatives, who have at the time
any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
owners in fee, or as tenants for life, or for years; or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property, or of any part thereof‘, after the termination of a particular estate therein; and who, by any contingency, may be
entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have
an interest in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years
or for life. Second. On all ersons interested in the property
who may be unknown, to W cm notice shall have been given
of the action for partition by publication; and, Third. ‘On
all other persons claiming from such parties or persons, or
either of them.

SEC. 695. But such 'udgment and partition shall not affect
tenants for years less t an ten, to the whole of the property
which is the subject of the partition.

SEC. 696. The expenses of the referees, includin those of
a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, shal be ascertained and allowed by the court; and the amount therof, together with the fees allowed by law to the referees,.shal1 be
apportioned among the different parties to the action.

SEC. 697. _ When a lien is on an undivided interest or estate
of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition ‘be made, shall
thenceforth be a charge only on the share assi ned to such
party; but such share shall be first charged witg its just proportion of the costs of partition, in preference to such lien.

SEC. 698. When a part of the roperty only is ordered to
be sold, if there be an estate for li e or years, in an undivided
share of the_whole property, such estate may be set off in any
part of the pro erty not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 699. he proceeds of the sale of the encumbered
roperty shall be a plied under the direction of the court, as
ollowsz First. 0 pay its 'ust pro ortion of the general

costs of the action. Second. 0 pay tlie costs of the reteren ce.
Third. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their
order of priority, by payment of the sum due and to become
due; the amount to be verified by affidavit at the time of payment. Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to their respective shares therein.

Sec. 700. When any party to an action who holds a lien
upon the property, or any part thereof, has other securities for
the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its
discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction

to be made from the amount of the lien on the property, on
account thereof. .

Sac. 701. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by
the referees, or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them
to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the court so directs.
But in case no direction be given, all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited therein, or as directed
by the court.

SEC. 702. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or
parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and
who are known, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such parties, for the determination of their
res ctive claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and ad. ju ged by the court. Further testimony may be taken in
court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the
court ma , if necessary, require such parties to present the
facts or aw in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original
action.

Sac. 703. All sales of real property, made by referees under
this chapter, shall be made by public auction to the highest
bidder, upon notice published in the manner required for the
sale of real property on execution. The notice shall state the
terms of sale, and if the property, or any art of it, is to be

sold, subject to a prior estate, charge, or ien, that shall be
stated in the notice.

SEC. 704. The court shall, in the order for sale, direct the
terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase money
of any portion of the premises of which it may direct a sale
on credit, and for that portion of which the purchase money
is required, by the rovisions hereinafter contained, to be invested for the bene t of unknown owners, infants, or parties
out of the territory.

SEC. 705. The referees may take separate mortgages and
other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the
urchase money, of such parts of the pro erty as are directed
y the court to be sold on credit, for the s ares of an known
owner of full age, in the name of such owner; an for the
shares of an infant, in the name of the guardian of such infant;
and for other shares, in the name of the clerk of the county
and his successors in office.

SEC. 706. The person entitled to a tenancy for life or years,
whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to receive
such sum as ma be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such
estate, and whic the person so entitled may consent to acce t,
instead thereof, by an instrument in writing, filed with the

clerk of the court. Upon the .tiling of such consent, the
clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the court.

SEC. 707. If such consent be not given, filed and entered,
as provided in the last section at or before a jud ent of sale
is rendered, the court shall ascertain and determigrig what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting expenses,
w1ll be a Just and reasonable sum to be allowed on account of
(s)1:c(l11eestate,da_nd shaltl fordlernthel signs to be paideto _s1:ch party,

posi e in cour or 1 , s e case may r quir .

SEC. 708. If the person entitled to such estate for life or
years be unknown t e court shall provide for the protection
of their rights, in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they
were known and had appeared.

S30. 1729. In all cases of sale, when it appears that any
person s a vested or contingent future right or estate in any
of the property sold, the court shall ascertain and settle the
pro ortional value of such contin ent or vested right or estate,
an shall direct such proportion o the proceeds of the sale to
be ixtigested, secured, or paid over, in such manner as to protect e ri hts and interests of the arties.

SEC. 71 . In all cases of sale 0 property, the terms shall
be made known at the time; and it the premises consist of
disézinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately.

E0. 711. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the
benefit of either of them, shall be interested in any purchase;
nor shall a guardian of an infant party be interested in the
purchasfe of any real property, being the subject of the action,
exce t or the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be void.

8ECt.h712. After completin a sale of the property, or 31111]
part creof ordered to be so d the referees shall report t e
same to the court, with a descri tion of the different parcels
of land sold to each purchaser, t e name of the purchaser, the
plilice paid as secured,) the termsTand conditionls 0;‘ this s&v.le, aztild
t e securities (if an taken. he report shal e e in t he
office of the clerk o the county where the property is situafded.

Sec. 713. If the sale be confirmed by the court an o er
shall be entered, directing the referees to execute cohveyances
and take securities, pursuant to such sale+which they are
hereby authorized to do. Such order may also give directions
to them respecting the disposition of the roceeds of the sale.

Sac. 714. When a part entitled to a s are of the property,
or an encumbrancer, entit ed to have his lien paid out of the
sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt

or so much of the proceeds of the sale as elon to him.

SEC. 715. The conveyances shall be recordedliii the county

where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar a ainst all
persons interested in the property, in any way, who s all have

een named as parties in the action ; and against all such parties and persons as were unknown, if the summons have been
served by publication, and against all persons claiming from
them, or either of them.

SEC. 716. When there are proceeds of sale belongin to an
unknown own er, or to persons without the territory, w 0 has
no legal representative within it, the same shall be Invested in
securities, on interest, for the benefit of the persons entitled
thereto.

SEC. 717. When the security of ‘the proceeds’ of sale is
taken, or when an investment of an such proceeds is made,
it shall be done (except as herein otlyierwise provided) in the
name of the clerk of the county where the apers are filed,
and his successors in office, who shall hold t e same for the
use and benefit of the parties interested—subject to the order
of the court.

Sec. 718. When security is taken by the referees on asale,
and the parties interested in such security, by an instrument
in writing, under their hands, delivered to the referees, agree
upon the shares and proportions to which they are respectively
entitled, or when shares and proportions have been previously
adjudged by the court, such securities shall be taken in the
name of, and payable to, the parties respectively entitled
thereto, and shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned
and filed with the clerk.

SEC. 719. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or
by whom an investment is made, and his successors in office,
shall receive the interest and principal as it becomes due, and
apply and invest the same, as the court may direct; and shall
ii e in his office all securities taken, and keep an account, in a
book provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk's office,
free for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies
received b him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEO. 72 . When it appears that partition cannot be made
equal between the parties, according to their respective ri hts,
without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of t em’,
and apartition be ordered by judgment, the court may adjudge
compensation to be made by one party to another, on account
of the inequalit of partition; but such compensation shall not
be required to be made to others, by owners unknown, nor by
infants—unless, in case of an infant, it appear that he has personal property suilicient for that purpose, and that his interest
will be promoted thereby.

SEC. 721. When the share of an infant is sold, the roceeds
of the sale ma be paid by the referee making the sa e to his
general gua ‘an, or the splecial guardian appointed by him
in the action, upon iving t e security required by law, or directed by order of t e court. ' V

Sac. 722. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or
other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs,
whose interest in real property shall have been sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share of the proceeds of
such real property, from the referees, on executing, with sufiicient sureties, an undertaking approved by a jud e of the
court, or by a county judge, that he will faithfully ischarge
the trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled, or his legal representative.

SEC. 723. The general guardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custody and mana ement of the estate of an insane person, or other person agjudged incapable
of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate
held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner
so as to authorize his being made a party to an action for the
partition thereof, may consent to a artition without action,
and agree to the share to be set oil? to such infant, or other
person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the
owners of the shares of the parts to which ‘they may be
respectivel entitled, upon an order of the court, which partition shal be approve or disapproved by the court.

SEC. 724. The costs of partition, including fees of referees
and other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in pro ortion to
their respective interests therein, and may be 1nc uded and
specified 111 the 'udgment. In that case, they shall be a lien
on the several s ares, and the judgment ma be enforced by
execution against such shares, and against o er property held
by the respective parties. \Vhen, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the
expense of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto,
or any of them.

SEC. 725. The court, with the consent of the parties, may
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings under the provisions of this chapter; and the single
referee, when thus appointed, shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties required of the three referees.

SEC. 726. When several persons hold and are in possession
of mining claims, as joint tenants, or tenants in common,
upon the petition of one or more of the joint tenants or ten

ants in common, the court havin jurisdiction shall appoint a
commissioner, who shall procee to make a partition of the
property to be divided, and make a report to the court, as
provided in this act.

SEC. 727. In case of partition of a mining claim, any of
the tenants in common, or joint tenants,’ interested therein,
may file an affidavit showing to the court that a sale for cash
would be injurious to him, her or them; the court shall, upon
such showing, appoint a commissioner, who shall decide such
claim as hereinafter provided for.

Size. 728. The commissioner provided for in the last section shall proceed to the place where such claim is located,
and at such time as the court may direct, within not less than
twenty, nor more than forty days after such sale shall have
been ordered by the court, shall sell such claim at auction to
the highest bidder, in parts or parcels, to the joint tenants, or
tenants in common, and shall receive bids in shares or undivided interests; or parts of such claim to be divided.

SEC. 729. The party or parties seekin the partition of
such mining claim, shall be deemed t e highest bidder,
within the meaning of the last preceding section, who will
take the least part or partition of such mining claim, at a
place upon such claim to be selected by him, her or them, in
pro ortion to the whole share, shares, or interest, held by
suc party or parties; Provided, That if the remainder of the
'oint tenants, or tenants in common, shall fail to make a

ighcr bid, in proportion to their joint shares or interests in
such claim, then the bid of the party or parties seeking the
partition, shall be received and declared to be the highest bid;
and the commissioner shall proceed to measure oil‘ such claim
to the party or parties, as hereinafter provided, and such
claim, or part of the claim, so measured off by the said commissioner to the highest bidder, shall be, and is hereby, con:
sidered as an entire surrender to the opposing part of the
remainder of his or her shares or interests in sucll claim,
thereby relinquishing the residue of the shares or interests
held by the party to whom was awarded the highest bid (not
included in the measurement of said commissioner) to the
adverse party.

SEC‘. 730. Whenever any such bid as mentioned in sections
seven hundred and twenty-eight and seven hundred and
twenty-nine shall have been received and declared, the commissioner shall go upon the claim and measure off to such
bidder the amount of such claim so bid off, at such place as
the bidder shall elect.

SEC. 731. After setting off such bids, as provided in the

last section, the commissioner shall a ain receive bids, as
hereinbefore provided, and shall therea er measure off such
bids, as provided for in section seven hundred and twe tynine, and shall continue in the same manner to receive ids
and set apart the same from such claims, until the parties who
still hold an undivided portion of such mining cla1m shall be
satisfied that the sale cease, and are content to hold the remaining portion of such claims as joint tenants, or tenants in
common, as the case may be.

SEC. 732. The court may confirm or set aside the report,
and, if necessary, appoint a new commissioner. Upon the
report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such
partition be effectual forever—which judgment shall be bindin and conclusive. gas. 733. The expenses and reasonable compensation of
the commissioner, including those of the surveyor, when emloyed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and shall
e apportioned among the parties to the action.

See. 734. This act shall take eifect and be in force &om

and after its approval by the governor.

APPROVED, February 1st, 1864.


