Section 2979. Title of Act and how Divided: act shall be known as the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of Idaho, and whenever cited, enumerated, referred to or amended, may be designated simply as the Code of Civil Procedure, adding, when necessary, the number of the Section. ties, as tollows: Tifile XV. Courts of Justice and Judicial Title XVI. Civil Procedure in District Courts. Title XVII. Title XVIII. It is divided into seven Ti Oﬁicers. Civil Procedure in Probate and Justices’ Courts. Miscellaneous Provisions. Title XIX. Special Proceedings of a Civil Nature. Title XX. Proceedings in Probate Courts Relating to Probate Matters. Title XXI. Evidence.
Section 2980. Civil and Criminal Remedies not Merged: When the violation of a right admits of both civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in the other.
Section 2981. The Courts Enumerated: are the courts of justice of this State having jurisdiction in civil ac tions: I. The supreme court; 2. The district courts; 3. 4. The probate courts; The justices’ courts.
Section 2982. Courts of Record Designated: The courts enumerated in the first three subdivisions of the preceding Section are courts of record.
Section 9983: Jurisdiction: The jurisdiction of this court is of two kinds: I. Original; and 2. Appellate.
Section 9984. 0riginaI Jurisdiction: Its original juris diction extends to the issuance of writs of mandamus, certiorari, pro hibition. habeas corpus. and all writs necessary or proper to the exer cise of its appellate jurisdiction. It shall also have original jurisdic tion to hear claims against the state. but its decision shall be merely recommendatory; no process in the nature of execution shall issue thereon; they shall be reported to the next session of the legislature for its action.
Section 2985. Appellate Jurisdiction: The appellate jurisdiction extends to zl review. upon appeal, it under such regulations as are or decisions of all cases removed to may be prescribed by law. froln the of the district courts. or of any judge thereof.
Section 2986. Written Decisions Required: The decisions of the supreme court shall be in writing. 
Section 2986. Written Decision8 Required: The decisions of the supreme court shall be in writing.
Section 2987. Pre!!leo~e o, Tw·o J ustice8: The presence
of two justices is necessary for the transaction of business, but one of
the justices may adjourn the court from day to day with the same ef­
fect as if all were present. 
Section 29~~. Uenc11rrenc.-e ot· T11'0 J 11Mti~~= The
concurrence of two justices is necessary to pronounce a judgment: if
two do not concur. the case must he reheard. 
Section 2989. 
At least four terms of the supreme court sha11 he held annually; two
terms at the seat of State gm·ernment. and two terms at the city of
Lewiston. in Xez Perce county. 
Section 2990. na,· Hold Elsewl1e1·.- h1 CaN_. of· Enu~r­
gency: In case of epidemic. pesfilence. or destruction of court 
houses. the justices may hold the terms of the supreme court pro­ 
vided by the preceding Section at ()t her couvenient places. to he fixed
by a majority of said justices.
Section 2991. Order Fhi111{ 'l,erntN: I'he supreme court.
or any two of the judges thereof. may. hy an order. fix the times for 
holding the terms of the supreme court. which shall not he changed
oftener than twice in each Year: hut additional terms mav also he held 
by order ,,f the c,,urt.
Section 2199~. Wht-re (;auseflll Co be n e ard: l 'nless Irv 
ag-reement of parties causes in which writs of error or appeals are t;;­ 
ken to the supreme cc mrt of the State of T claho fn mi the counties of 
Kootenai. ~h11:--hn11r. Latah. Xez Perce and Idaho or counties hereaf­
ter created therefrom. shall he heard at Lewist on : and causes in which
writs nf error or appeals are taken to said supreme court. from the
counties of Ada, Boise, Owyhee, Elmore, Cassia, Logan, Alturas,
Oneida, Bear Lake, Bingham, Lemhi, Washington, Custer and Can­
yon, ur counties hereafter created therefrom, shall be heard at Boise
City: Provided, That in criminal cases, writs of error, habeas corpus,
certiorai and appeals, may on motion of defendant be heard before the
supreme court either at the city of Lewiston or at Boise City. 
Section 2993. Distrid (;ourt• E1!11abli11hed: District
courts are hereby established, to be held in each of the counties of 
this State which have been or may hereafter be organized by law, for
the purpose of hearing and determining all matters and causes arising
under the laws of the State.
Section 299.tl. Judicial Di•tricb•: The State is divided
into five judicial districts constituted of the following counties, re­
spectively : 
First district, Shoshone and Kootenai.
Second district, Latah, Nez Perce and Idaho.
Third district, Washington, Ada, Boise, Owyhee and Canyon.
Fourth district, Blaine, Lincoln, Cassia, Custer and Elmore.
Fifth district, Bear Lake, Bingham, Oneida, Fremont, Bannock and 
Lemhi. 
Section 2993. Orisinal .J urisdi~tio11: 'l'he district court
has original jurisdiction : 
1. In all cases both at law and in equity. 
2. In all special proceedings.
3. To issue writs of mandate, review, prohibition. habeas corpus, 
and all writs necessary to the exercise of its powers.
4. In the trial of all indictments and informations. 
Section 2998. A..ppellatc Juriadiction: Its appellate
jurisdiction extends to all cases arising in probate or justices' courts;
and to all other matters and cases wherein an appeal is allowed by
law.
Section 9997. Fixing Tim«-' for Holding Terms: The
judge of the district court of each of the judicial districts of the State 
must. annually. fix the time for holding the district court in the sev­ 
eral counties of his district bv an order filed and entered by the clerk 
in each county of his district. and said order must be published two
consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in his district.
Section 999"· Special Ter••· Order f'or: A special
term of the district court may be held in any county, by an order of
the judge of the district fixing the time of holding the same, and such
order must be published fur two consecutive weeks in some newspaper
printed in the county in which the special term is to be held, and in
case no newspaper is printed in the county, then in some newspaper
printed in the State nearest to the county in which said special term is 
to be held.
Section 9999. ~um.her and Duration ot· Term.•: 
There must be held at least two terms of the district court in each
county 111 each year and each term must continue until the business is
disposed of, or until a day fixed for the commencement of some other
term in the district.
Section 1000. A.djeurnmentw: The court may adjourn
from time to time during the term, and may, when the public con­
venience requires, adjourn the term over the time fixed by law for the
commencement of another term in the same district. 
Section 3001. .Judgment• and Orden Entered iu 
Vacatien: Judgments and orders of this court may be entered either
in term or vacation.
Section 3009. Court in Each Uounty: There must he
a probate court held in each of the counties. 
Section 3003. .Juri•di~tion. oi· Probate Uourt: The
probate court has jurisdiction : 
I. To open and receive proof of last wills and testaments and to
admit them to proof;
To grant letters testamentary of administration and of guard­
.ship, and to revoke the same;
:, To appoint appraisers of estates of deceased persons; 
4. To compel executors. administrators and guardians to render 
;:l ccunts ; 
t: To order the sale of property of estates, or belonging to mm­
ors; 
6. To order the payment of debts due from estates:
7. To order and regulate all distributions of property or estates 
n f deceased persons ;
8. To compel the attendance of witnesses and the production uf title deeds, papers and other property of an estate or of a minor;
9. To make such orders as may be necessary to the exercise of the 
powers conferred upon it. 
In addition to their probate jurisdiction, to hear and determine all
civil causes wherein the damage or debt-claimed does not exceed the
sum of five hundred dollars. exclusive of interest, and concurrent
jurisdiction with justices of the peace in criminal cases. 
Section 300~. Preti1umptiool!f as to Probate Proceed­
in,r11: The proceedings of this court are construed in the same man­
ner and with like intendments as the proceedings of courts of general
jurisdiction, and to its records, orders, judgments and decrees there
is accorded like force, effect and legal presumptions as to the records,
orders, judgments and decrees of district courts, Provided, That this Section shall be applicable to its probate proceedings, records, orders,
judgments and decrees only.
Section 3003. Term• in the !!Jeveral Uo11ntie•: The
terms of the probate courts in the several counties for the transaction
of all probate business, except that specially authorized by law to be
done in vacation, must be held on the fourth Monday in each month.
For the transaction of all civil, other than probate business, and all 
criminal business. these courts are always open. 
1887 R. S. Sec. 3843. 
Section 3088. Terms, Wber~ Held. Clerk. The terms
of the probate courts must be held at the county seats. There shall 
he a clerk ,A said court to be appointed by the judge thereof or the
probate judge may act as clerk of his own court. Every probate
judge shall be responsible upon his official bond, for every default or 
misconduct in office of his clerk. 
Section 3807. Ju8tice M118t Hold Co11rt Where: Everv
justice of the peace must hold a justice's court in the precinct or cit)~ 
for which he is elected or appointed. 
Section 3008. Uivil Jurit1dictioo: The civil jurisdiction
of these courts within their respective precincts or cities extends: 
1. To an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars ; 
2. To an action for damages to the person, or for taking or de­
taining personal property, or for injuring personal property, or for an
injury to real property, where no issue is raised by the answer involv­
ing the plaintifff's title, or posesssion of the same, if the damages
claimed do not exceed three hundred dollars; 
3. To an action for a fine, penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding
three hundred dollars, given .by statute or the ordinance of an incor­ 
porated city;
4. To an action upon a bond or undertaking conditioned for the 
payment of money not exceeding three hundred dollars, though the
penalty exceed that sum; the judgment to be given for the sum ac­
tually due. When the payments are to be made by installments, an ac­
tion may be brought for each installment as it becomes due; 
5. To an action to recover the possession of personal property
when the value of such property does not exceed three hundred dol­
lars; 
6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant,
when the amount confessed does not exceed three hundred dollars. 
Section 3009. Jurhtdiction Retltricted: The jurisdic­
tion conferred by the last Section shall not extend however to a civil
action in which the boundaries. title or possession of real property is
put in issue. 
Section 3010. Juri•diction Extend• to Cou._ty: Mesne
and final process of justices· courts may be issued to any part of the
county in which they are held. 
Section 3011. Sitting• Public: The sittings of every
court of justice are public, except as provided in the next Section. 
Section 901~. LimUation on Pre~eding ~ection: In 
an action for divorce, criminal conversation, seduction, or breach of
promise of marriage, the court may direct the trial of any issue of
fact joined therein to be private, and may exclude all persons except
the officers of the court, the parties, their witnesses, and counsel; 
Provided, That in any cause the court may. in the exercise of a sound
discretion during the examination of a witness. exclude any and all
witnesses in the cause.
Section 3013. Powen Respecting the Conduct 01· 
.Judicial Proceedingw: Every court has power: 
1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence; 
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it or before a per 
son or persons empowered to conduct a -judicial investigation under
its authority; 
son
or
persons empowered
to conduct a
-judicial
investigation
under
its
authority;
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it or
its officers; 
4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders and process, and
to the orders of a judge out of court in an action or proceeding 
pending therein; 
5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its minis­
terial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with 
a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto; 
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in an action or
proceeding pending therein. in the cases and manner provided in this
Code; 
7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending there­
in, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise of
its po·wers and duties; 
8. To amend and control its process and orders, so as to make
them conformable to law and justice. 
Section 3014. Courts of· Record .May .Make Hulett: 
Every court of record may make rules not inconsistent with the laws
of this State, for its own government and the government of its of­ 
ficers, but such rules must neither impose a tax or charge upon any 
legal proceeding nor give an allowance to any officer for services. 
Section 3013. Wlle11 Rules Take Effect: The rules
adopted hy the supreme court take effect sixty days. and those adopt­
ed hy other courts. thirty days after their publication.
Section 3016. Dayw on Whfoh Court May be Held: 
The courts of justice may be held and judicial business be transacted
on any day except as provided in the next Section. 
Section 301'7. Shall not be 8pened on Certain Day8: 
·;No court can be opened nor can any judicial business be transacted
on Sunday. on the first day of January. on the fourth day of July. 
on Christmas. or Thanksgiving day. or on a day on which the gen­
eral election is held, except for the following purposes. 
I. To give. upon their request. instructions to a jury when delib­
erating on their verdict; 
2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury:
~- For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal 
action or in a proceeding of a criminal nature: Provided. That in
civil causes orders of arrest mav be made and executed: writs of at­
tachments. executions. injunctions and writs of prohibition may he
issued and served : proceedings to recover possession of personal prop­
erty may be had: and suits for the purpose of obtaining any such writs
amt proceedings may he instituted on any day. 
Section 3010. Co11rt so Appointt-d~ Deemed for ~e~• 
Day: If any of the <lays mentioned in the ·last Section happen to
he the <lay apnointerl for the holding of a court or to which it is ad­
journed. it is deemed appointed for. or adjourned to the next day. 
Section :1019. 1'fl.io11rnment ot· Co11rf ror Ah11ct8t 
oC Jud,c-e: If no judrre attend on the clay appointed for hol.g.
the court. or on the flay to which it may have been ad iourned, before
'loon. the sheriff or clerk must ad iourn the .court until the next dav
at ten o'clock a. m.: and if no judrre attend on that dav before noon,
the sheriff or clerk must ad iourn the court until the following <lay at
the same hour. and so on from dav to dav for one week. unless the
iudze hv written order directs it to. he ad iourned to some dav certain
fixed in. said order, in which case it shall he so adjourned.
Section 30~0. Samf'!: T f no judge attend for one week and
no written order is made as provided in the last Section, the sheriff
or clerk shall adjourn the session until the time · appointed for the 
holding of the next regular session.
Section 3021. EmerJ{ency~ Chan.-e Place o, Holdinc: 
. \ judge authorized to hold or preside at a court appointed to be hefrl
in a countv. citv or town. mav, bv an order filed with the clerk amt
published as he. may prescribe. direct that the court be held or con- 
tinued at any other place in the city, town or county than that ap­
pointed, when war, insurrection. pesfilence or any other public ca­ 
tinned at
any
other
place
lamity or the danger thereof, or the destruction or danger of the
building appointed for holding the court may render it necessary, 
and may in the same manner revoke the order. and in his discretion
appoint another place in the same city, town or county for hot--· " 
the court. 
Section 30~"· Partief!I to A.ppear at Place A.ppointed: 
When the court is held at a place appointed as provided in the last Section. every person held to appear at the court must appear at the 
place so appointed. 
Section 30~3. RoonH, Etc., When J11d&"e 1'1.ay Or­
der: If suitafile rooms for holding the district courts and the cham­
hers of the judges of such courts be not provided in any county by
the commissioners thereof. together with attendants, furniture, fuel,
lights and stationery sufficient for the transaction of business, the
court may direct the sheriff of such county to provide such rooms,
attendance. furniture. fuel. lig-hts and stationery. and the expenses
thereof are a charge against such county. 
Section 30"4. What (;ourt8 Rave Seal8: Each of the
following courts has a seal : 
1 The supreme court;
The district court:
The probate court. 
Section 30"3. Seals, by Whom Kepf: The clerk of the
court must keep the seal thereof. 
Section 30"6. Seal, to What Proceeding8 A.fflxed: 
The seal of the court need not he affixed to any proceeding therein,
or document except: 
T. To a writ; 
2. To the certificate of the probate of a will. or of the appoint­
ment of an executor, administrator or guardian; 
3. To the authentication of a copy of a record or other proceed­
ing of a court. or of an officer thereof. or a copy of a document on
file in the office of the clerk. 
Section 1097. Di•trict Judge• May Hold Co11rh1 in
.&nother Di11trict: A district judge may hold a court in any
county in this State upon the request of the judge of the district in
which such court is to be held: and when by reason of sickness or
absence from the State. or from anv other cause a court cannot he
held in any county in a district hy the judge thereof. a certificate of
that fact must he transmitted by the clerk to the governoc who may
thereupon direct some other district judge to hold such court. 
But a cause in the district court may 'be tried by a judge pro tern­ 
pore who must he a memher of the bar agreed upon hy the part~
igant. or their attorneys of record. and sworn to try the cause.
Section 309S. Powf'rtii of Db,trict Jud5n af Uha~­
Mrs: District judges. at chambers. may grant all orders and writs
which are usua11y granted in the first instance upon ex par~e applica­
tions. and may. at chambers, hear and dispose of such writs and of
motions for new trials, and try and determine writs of review. mandate and prohibition. and may· hear applications to discharge all such
orders and writs. In case of vacancy in the office of any district judge,
or his absence from the State. motions may be made before and orders
granted by any other district judge
Section 30~9. When Db1qualifled: . \ judge cannot act
as such in any of the following cases: 
t. In an action or proceeding to which lie is a party, or in which
he is interested ; 
2. \Vhen he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity
within the third degree. computed according to the rules of Jaw; 
3. When he has heen attorney or counsel for either party in the
action or proceeding. But this Section does not apply to the arrange­
ment of the calendar or the regulation of the order of business, nor
to the power of transferring the cause to another county.
Section 8030. Not to Act •• A.ttorney in Bl• Own
~eort: A judge cannot act as attorney or counsel in a court in 
which he is judge. or in an action or proceeding removed therefrom
to another court for trial or review. or in an action or proceeding
from which an appeal may lie to his own court. 
Section 3031. Certain J 11d1"e11 not to A.ct as A ttor­
neyw: A justice of the supreme court. or judge of the district court.
cannot act as attorney or counsel in any court. except in an action or
proceeding to which he is a party on the record. 
Section 3032. No J11diclal o•ur to Ba•e a Part­
ner: No judge or other judicial officer. shall have a partner acting 
as attorney or counsel in any court of this State.
Section 3033. General Powen o, .J••d«n Out oC
£oort: .-\ judge may exercise, out of court. all the powers express­ 
ly conferred upon a judge. as contradistinguished from the court. 
Section 3034. Incidental Pow·en o, J11dicial Offl­
cer11: Every judicial officer has power: 
r. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and
in the oroceedings hefore him. when he is engaged in the perform­
ance of an official duty; 
. To compel obedience to his lawful orders. as provided in this
Code; 
2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in this Code; 3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding hefore him. in the cases and manner provided in this Code;  3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a proceeding before him. in the cases and manner provided in this Code;
4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding pending before
him. and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the exer­
cise of his powers and duties, 
Section 1033. 1'1ay Pu11i•h ror C,ontempt: For the ef­
fectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last Section. a judicial
officer may punish for contempt. in the cases provided in this Code. 
Section :1038. May Take Acknowledgment and .&.,. 
fldaTit11: The justices of the supreme court. and the judges of the
district courts. have power in anv part of the State. and probate
judges and justices of the peace within their respective counties. to
take and certify : 
I. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real prop­
ertv or of anv other written instrument : 
2. The acknowledgment of a satisfaction of a judgment of anv 
court: T ··-, 
3. An affidavit or deposition to he used in this State.
Section 3037. ~u1Meq11ent Applicationfl ror Ordena, 
When Prohibited: J f an anplication for an order. made to a
judge of a court in which the action or proceeding is pending, is re­
fused. in whole or in part. or is granted conditionally. no subsequent
application for the same order can he made to any other judge. ex­
cent of a higher court: hut nothing in this Section applies to motions
refused for any informality in the paners or nroceedings necessary to 
obtain the order or to motions refused, with liberty to renew the same. 
Section 3088. Violation~ of La111t Section: A violation
of the last Section may he punished as a contempt. and an order
made contrary thereto may he revoked by the judge who made it. or 
vacated by a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is 

Section 3039. No Proceedings Aliected by Vacancy: 8ectioa SD:19. Ne Proceedln~• A.ffected by Vacancy:  No proceeding in any court of justice in an action or special proceed­ ing pending therein. is affected by a vacancy in the office of all or any of the judges. or by the failure of a term thereof. 
Section 3048. Pr~eedin~• to be In the Engll•h Lan­
pa1e: Every written proceeding in a court of justice in this State
shall he in the English language. and judicial proceedings shall be
conducted. preserved and published in no other.
Section 1041. AbbreYiatlone and Flgnrn: Such abbre­
viations as are in common use may be used and numbers may be ex­
pressed by figures or numerals. in the customary manner. 
Section 8049. 1'1ean11 to be 1J•ed to Esecute .Judlt-ial
Powen in Certain Ca•e.: When jurisdiction is. by this Code 
or by any other statute. conferred on a court or judicial officer all the
means necessary to carry it into effect are also given: and in the 'ex­
ercise of the jurisdiction if the course of proceedings be not specially
pointed out by this Code. or the statute, any suitable process or mode
of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable
to spirit of this Code.
Section 304:1. J11ry Deftned: .-\ jury is a hody of men
temporarily selected from the citizens of a particular district and in­
vested with power to present or indict a person for a public offense
or to try a question of fact. 
Section 3044. Cla8t.dfl..-ation 01· J 11rit"fl!I: Juries are of
three kinds: 
r. Grand juries; 
2. Trial juries;
3. Juries of. inquest. 
Section 304~. Grand Jury Defln~d: .-\ grand jury is a
body of men. sixteen in number. returned in pursuance of law from 
citizens of the county hefore a court of competent jurisdiction. and
sworn to inquire of public offenses committed or triable within the 
county. 
Section 3048. Trial .Jur,· Deaned. v~rdicf by 
Three-FourthtJ: .\ trial jury is a hody of men returned from the
citizens of a particular <listrict before a court or officer· of competent
jurisdiction and sworn to try and determine by a verdict a question of
fact. Three-fourths of the jury may render a verdict in a civil action
and such verdict shall have the same effect as a unanimous verdict. 
Section 38-1:7. ~umber oC 'I rial Jury: A trial jury
consists of twelve men, Provided, that in civil actions or in misde­
meanor cases the jury may consist of twelve, or of any number less
than twelve upon which the parties may agree in, open court; 
Section 304:S. J11ry oC lnqoe•t Deftned: A jury of
inquest is a body of men summoned from the citizens of a particular 
district, before the sheriff, coroner or other ministerial officer to in­
quire of particular facts.
Section 384:9. Qualiftcatlon oC Juron: A person is 
competent to act as a juror if he be: 
1. A citizen of the United States and an elector of the county; 
2. In possession of his natural faculties and not decrepit; 
3. Possessed of sufficient knowledge of the language in which the
proceedings of the courts are held. 
Section 3830. Pen•n• Compete•• aM Juren: A per­
son is not competent to act as a juror : 
I. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed by the pre­
ceding Section. 
2. Who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude.
Section 38:n. E1e1option of Certain PenonL11: A per­
son is exempt from liability to act as a juror if he be: 
1. A judicial, civil or military officer of the United States or of
the State of Idaho
2. .\ person holding a county office;
3. An attorney and counse1Ior at law;
4. . \ minister of the gospel or a priest of any denomination; 
J" • \ teacher in a college, academy or school :
6. A practicing physician; 
7. An officer. keeper or attendant of an almshouse. hospital, asy­
lum. or other charitable institution
8. Engaged in the performance of duty as officer or attendant of
a county jail or the state prison; 
a
9. An express agent, mail carrier, telegraph operator, telephone
agent, or keeper of a public ferry or toll gate. 
1 o. A dispensing druggist of a prescription drug store; 
1 1. A superintendent, engineer, conductor, fireman, or station
agent of a railroad; 
12. A person drawn as a juror in the district court, and who has
served as such within a year; but this exemption shall not apply to a
person who is summoned on a special venire, or to serve as a juror
in the probate or justices' court.
Section 303~.· Firemen Exempt: Twenty regularly en­
rolled active members of any fire department for every thousand in­ 
habitants of the town or city where such fire department is located, are
exempt from jury duty, and the chief engineer or foreman of the de­
partment must designate from the active members, and the county
recorder must issue certificates of exemption for one year to the num­
ber of active members so exempt. 
Section 3033. Who 1'1ay be Extm•ed: A juror cannot
be excused by the court for slight or trivial cause, or for hardship,
or inconvenience to his business, but only when material injury or de­
struction to his property, or that of the public intrusted to him is 
threatened, or when his own health or the sickness or death of a mem­
ber of his family, requires his absence.
Section 3034. May Tran•mit A.tftdal"it oC Excu11e: 
If a person exempt from liability to act as a juror, as provided in Section 3051, be summoned as a juror, he may make and transmit
his affidavit to the clerk of the court for which he is summoned, stat­
ing his office, occupation or employment; and such affidavit shall be 
delivered by the clerk to the judge of the court when the name of such
person is called, and, if sufficient in substance, it shall be received as
an excuse for non-attendance in person. The affidavit shall then be
filed by the clerk.
Section 3033. Li•t or Penon• to Serl'e: The board of
commissioners of each county must, at their first regular meeting in
each year. or at any other meeting, if neglected at the first, make a
list of persons to serve as jurors in the district court of the county, 
for the ensuing year.
Section 3056. llow Selection Made: They must proceed to select and list from the poll lists of the several precincts in their Sf ction 3038. Ho,v Selection .Mad e : They must proceed  to select and ]ist from the poll lists of the several precincts in their respective counties. last returned to the clerk of their board, the names 
of one hundred and fifty persons competent to serve as jurors; and
in makingssuch selection, they must take the names of such only as
are not exempt from serving, who are in possession of their natural
faculties, and not infirm or decrepit, of fair character, of approved in­
tegrity, and of sound judgment: Provided, That if, in any of the
counties, the county commissioners shall not be able to select the num­
ber required by this section, for jurors, they may select a less num­
ber and the highest possible. 
Section :1037. Li1d to be Placed with Clerk: Certified
lists of the persons selected to serve as jurors must at once be placed 
in the possession of the clerk of the district court. 
Section 3038. Duty oi· Clerk on ReceiYiog Li•t: On 
receiving such lists, the clerk must file the same in his office, and
write down the names contained therein on separate pieces of paper,
of the same size and appearance, and fold each piece so as to conceal
the name thereon, and deposit them in a box to be called the "jury 
box."
Section 3039. Re&"ular Juron to ~rl'e One Year: 
The persons whose names are so returned are known as regular jur­
ors, and must serve for one year, and until other persons are selected
and returned. 
Section S080. Order Cor Bra wiol' Jury: The district
court, or the judge thereof, if a trial jury will be required at any term
of the district court, must make and file with the clerk an order that
one be drawn. The number to be drawn must be fixed in the order;
if to form a grand jury, it must be twenty, and if a trial jury, such
number as the judge may direct. 
Section 3081. Cler&. to Notify Judl'e and ~heriff of· 
Drawiag: .\t least one day before the drawing. the clerk must
notify the sheriff and probate judge of the time when such drawing
will take place. which time must not be more than three days after
the receipt by him of the order for such drawing. 
Section 3062. Sheriff"and Judge to Witoe88 Dra11·­
ing: At the time so appointed, the sheriff, in person or Ly deputy.
and the probate judge. must attend at the clerk's office to witness
such drawing. and if they do so. the clerk must. in their presence.
proceed to draw the jurors.
Section 3083. DrawiDI' When to be Adjourned: If
the officers so notified do not appear, the clerk must adjourn the draw­
ing until the next day, and, by written notice, require two electors of
the county to attend such drawing on the adjourned day
Section 3084. lihall Proceed, When: If, at the adjourned
day, the sheriff, probate judge, and electors, or any two of such per­
sons, appear, the clerk must in their presence proceed to draw the 
jurors.
Section 3083. Dra11·ing Bow Conducted: The clerk
must conduct such drawing as follows : 
I. He must shake the box containing the names of jurors re­
turned to him, from which jurors are required to be drawn, so as to
mix the slips of paper upon which such names were written, as much
as possible ; 
2 He must then publicly draw out of the box as many such slips
of paper as are ordered by the judge; 
3. A minute of the drawing must be kept by one of the attending
officers, in which must be entered the names contained on every slip
of paper so 4'1rawn, before any other slip is drawn; 
4. If after drawing the whole number required, the name of any
person has been drawn who is dead or insane, or who has perma­
nently removed from the county, to the knowledge of the clerk or
any other attending officer, an entry of such fact must be made in
the minutes of the drawing, and the slip of paper containing such
name must be destroyed ; 
• 5. Another name must then be drawn, in place of that contained
on the slip of paper so destroyed, which must in like manner, be en­
tered in the minutes of the drawing; 
6. The sam~ proceeding must be had as often as may he neces­
sary, until the whole number of jurors required are drawn; 
7. The minutes of the drawing must then be signed by the clerk 
and the attending officers or persons, and filed in the clerk's office; 
. 8. Separate lists of the names of the persons so drawn for trial
jurors, and of those drawn· for grand jurors, specifying for what court
they were drawn, must be made and certified by the clerk and the at­
tending officers or persons, and delivered to the sheriff of the county; 
9. If both a grand and petit Jury are ordered at the same drawing,
the grand jury shall be drawn first.
Section 3066. Disposition of Ballots Alter Adjourn St-~tioo 3088. Disposition oC Ballo1M A.Her A.djo11ro­  nlent: After the adjournment of any court at which jurors have n1e111: .:\ fter the adjournment of any con rt at which jurors h-ivc been ret 11r~· eel a~ herein proved .. ·d. the clerk must inclose the bal! )L,  her.-n retnrretl as herein proveded, the clerk must inclose the ballwta c, 11ai~11 ·1g· the names of those "'in attended and served as jurors i.. a11 envelpe. under seal. and the ballots of those who did not attend and serve must be returned to the jury box. The ballots sealed m
envelopes must not be returned to the jury box. 
Section 3067. Copy of List lo be Fllrnishcd by Section 8087. ~opy or Li•t to be l,urni•hed b)' Clerk: The clerk of the district court must furnish any person ap­ plying therefore and paying the fees allowed by law for the same, a copy of the list of jurors drawn to attend any court. 
Section 3068. Sheriff to Summon .J11ron, Bow: As
soon as he receives the list of jurors drawn, the sheriff must sum­
mon the persons named therein to attend by giving personal notice
tc each, or by leaving a written n »ice at his place of residence, with
some person of proper age, and must return the list to the court at
the time fixed in the order for their appearance, specifying the names
of those who are summoned and the manner in which each person
was notified. The grand jurors shall be summoned to appear on the
first day of the term, at the hour of eleven o'clock in the forenoon,
and the trial jurors on such day of the term, and at such hour as the
presiding judge of the court may by order direct. 
Section
3069. Court May 0rder Jury Drawn, When: Section 8069. Court May Order J11ry Drawn, When:  Whenever jurors are not drawn and summoned to attend any court of record, or a sufficient number of jurors fail to appear, such court may, in its discretion, order a sufficient number to be drawn and summoned to attend such court; or it may, by an order entered on its minutes, direct the sheriff of the county to summon so many good and lawful men of his county to serve as jurors as the case may re­ quire. And in either case such jurors must he summoned in the man­ ner provided by the preceding section.
Section 301'0. Completed Crom Body of· County or
Crom By•taoder•: When there are not competent jurors
enough present to form a panel. the court may direct the sheriff or
other proper officer to summon a sufficient number of persons having
the qualifications of jurors. to complete the panel from the body of
the county or from the bystanders. and the sheriff must summon the
number so ordered. accordingly. and return the names to the court.
The jurors summoned under this or the preceding section. may be
: equired to appear forthwith or at a time to be named in the order, 
as the court may direct, and the officer summoning such jurors shall
return the order as , c.reinbefore provided. 
Section 3071. For Probate and Jll•ti~es £our1, by
Who1n Summoned: \ Vhen jurors are required in any probate
or justice's court, they must, upon the order of the judge or justice
thereof, be summoned by the sheriff, marshal or constable of the jur­
isdiction. 
Section 307g. How Summoned: Such jurors must be
summoned from the persons resident of the city or precinct competent 
to serve as jurors, by notifying them orally that they are so sum­
moned, and of the time and place at which their attendance ir re­
quired. 
Section 3073. oacer'• Return: The officer summoning
such jurors must, at the time fixed in the order for their appearance, 
return the venire with a list of the persons summoned indorsed there- 
on.
Section 3074-. Jorie• oC lnque•t, Bow Sunamoned: 
Juries of inquest must be summoned by the officer before whom the
proceedings are had, or any sheriff or constable, from the persons
resident of the county competent to serve as jurors, by notifying
them orally that they are so summoned, and of the time and place
at which their attendance is required. 
Section 3073. Obedience fo Summons, 0011· En­
Coreed: Any juror summoned who willfully and without reasonable
excuse, fails tc attend, may be attached and compelled to attend, and
the court may also impose a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars,
upon which execution may issue. If the juror was not personally
served, the fine must not be imposed until, upon an order to show 
cause, an opportunity has been offered the juror to be heard.
Section 3078. Gra11d Jury, When to be Enapaneled: 
At the opening of any term of the district court for which a grand
jury has heen ordered and summoned, unless otherwise directed by
the court, and as often thereafter as to the court may seem proper. a
grand jury may he empaneled.
Section 8877. Grand Jury, How Con8tiluted: Sixteen
persons shall constitute a grand jury, twelve of whom shall consti­
tute a quorum, and when of the jurors summoned, no more nor less 
than sixteen attend they shall constitute the grand jury. If more
than sixteen attend the clerk must call. over the list summoned, and 
tbe sixteen first answering shall constitute the grand jury. If less
than sixteen attend, the panel may be filled to sixteen as provided in section 3o6g. 
Section 801'8. Bow Empaneled: Thereafter such pro­
ceedings shall be had in empaneling the grand jury as are prescribed
by the criminal practice.
Section 3079. Name• oi· Trial J uron, Bo.w Kept 
At the time when the order for the trial jurors was made returnable,
or as soon thereafter as convenient, the clerk, under the direction of
the courtvmust call the names of those summoned, and the court
may then hear the excuses of jurors summoned. 
'!'he clerk must then write the names of jurors present, and not
excused, upon separate slips or ballots of paper, and fold such slips
so the names are concealed, and then in the presence of the court,
deposit the slips or ballots in a box, which must be kept sealed un­
til ordered by the court to be opened. 
Section 8080. To be Empaaeled as Pre•cri~d in thi11
(}ode: When thereafter an action is called for trial by the jury,
such proceedings shall be had in empaneling the trial jury as are pre- 
scribed in this Code. 
Section 8081. Proceeding• in FormiDA" Jllry in
(}ourt• not oC Re~ord: At the time appointed for a jury trial,
in probate or justices' courts, the list of jurors summoned shall be
called. If a sufficient number of jurors are in attendance, the pro­
bate judge or justice may proceed to empanel the jury. When there
are not competent jurors enough present to form a panel the judge or
justice may direct the proper officer to summon a sufficient number 
of persons, having the qualifications of jurors to complete the panel
and such officer must summon the number so ordered, accordingly
and return the same into court forthwith or at such time as may be
designated in the order. 
Section 308~. lo Urhninal Ca8es: Thereafter, if the ac­
tion is a criminal one, the jury must be empaneled as provided by 
the statutes relating thereto. If a civil one as provided by th~s Code. 
Section 3083. 1'1od~ and .Manner of' Empaneliul'
Inque•t Juries: The mode and manner of empaneling juries of
inquest are provided for in the provisions of the different statutes re­
lating to such inquests. 
Section 3084. Fee• oC Juror• in Di•t rict Uourt•: The
pay of grand and petit jurors in the district court, is three dollars per
day for each day of actual attendance at court, and fifteen cents per
mile for each mile necessarily traveled in going to and returning from
co!-lrt, which must be paid out of the county treasury.
Section 308:i. Clerk to Pay Juror, How: At the end
of each term of a district court the clerk must make out a,certificate 
to each juror entitled thereto, certifying the number of days such
juror has attended court, and the amount remaining due to him for
per diem and mileage. Each juror must state on oath to the clerk 
tire number of miles traveled for which he is entitled to pay; but no
juror must receive mileage for going to, or returning from court more
than once during the same term ; and no person summoned as a juror
and excused at his own request, must receive any per diem or mileage. 
Section 30~6. Fees oC Juror• in Ju•tice and Pro­
bate Courts: Jurors in civil and criminal cases in the probate and
justices courts are entitled to receive two dollars per day for each
d actually e:1gaged in the trial of a case. And twenty-five cents 
p:· mile, one way. Such mileage and per diem in all civil cases must
he entered and taxed up as costs against the losing party, and in
all criminal cases. must be paid out of the county treasury of the
county where such probate or justice court is held. upon the certifi­
cate of the probate judge or justice hefore whom such case was tried. 
l«, he audited and paid as other claims against the county. 
Section 3087. Who may be Admitted: Any citizen or person. resident of this state. who has bona ﬁde declared his inten Se~tion 3087. Who may be A.doaltted: Any citizen or person. resident of this state. who has bona fide declared his inten­ tion to become a citizen in the manner required by law: of the age  tion to become a citizen in the manner required by law: of the age of twenty-one years, of good moral character. and who possesses the necessary qualifications of learning. and ability, is entitled to admis­ sion as attorney and counselor in all courts of this state. 
Section 10Sij. Q11allflcafion8 or£ Uorney: Every ap­
plicant for admission as an attorney and counselor must produce sat­ 
isfactory testimonials of good moral character. and, except as here­
inafter provided, undergo a strict examination in open court as to
his qualifications. hy the justices of the supreme court: Provided, 
That the several district courts of this state may admit applicants to
practice as attorneys and counselors in their respective courts upon
like testimonials and examination.
Section 3089. Certiftcafe or A.d1niHion.. Lieent~e: If. 
upon such examination in the supreme court. the applicant is found
qualified. the court shall admit him as attorney and counselor in all the
courts of this state. and shall direct an order to he entered to that
effect unon its records. and that a certificate of such record be given
to him by the clerk of the court. which certificate is his license. 
Section 1098. Oath and Admirt8ion Fe~: Every per­
son. before receiving license to practice law. shall take the oath pre­
scribed hy law. and shall nay to the state treasurer the sum of twenty­
five dollars for the use of the state lihrary fund. and the clerk of the 
court shall require of the person so admitted the receipt of the said
treasurer, before issuing- such license, and in no case shall the oath
be administered or the license issued until such receipt is produced
and filed in the office of the clerk.
Section 8091. A.ttorney oC Other 8tate11 and Ter­
rltorle•: The examination may be dispensed with in the case of a
person who has been admitted attorney and counselor, and is still in
good standing as such, in the highest court of any other state or ter­
ritory, and his affidavit of such admission and standing, showing• the
county. state or territory, the name of the court. and the time when
such admission was obtained. or his license showing the same. shall
be deemed sufficient to entitle him to admission, with affidavit of such
standing. 
Section 309~. Roi I oC A.ttorney•: Each clerk must keep
a roll of attorneys and counselors admitted to practice by the court of
which he is clerk. which roll must be signed by the person admitted
before he receives a license. 
Section 3098. Penalty Cor Pradicinc without Li­
cen.e: If any person shall practice law in any court. except a jus­
tice's court. without having received a license as attorney and coun­
selor, he is guilty of a contempt of court.
Section 3094. General Dutiew: It is the duty of an attor­
nev and counselor: 
~I. To support the constitution and laws of the United States and
nf this state; 
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judi­
cial officers: 
~- To counsel or maintain such actions. proceedings, or defenses
only as appear to him legal or just. except the defense of a person
charged with a public offense: 
4. To employ. for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided
to him. such means onlv as are consistent with truth. and never
seek to mislead the judges by an artifice or false statement of fact
or law: 
~- To maintain inviolate the confidence. and at every peril to
hiri-tself. to preserve the secrets of his clients: 
6. To abstain from all offensive personality. and to advance no
fact pre judicia 1 to the honor or reputation of a party or witness. un­
less required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged: 
7. Not to encourage either the commencement or the continuance
nf an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest: 
R Never to reject for any consideration personal to himself the
cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.
Section 3093. A.uthority eC A1tor11ey: An attorney and
counselor has authority: 
I. To bind his client in any of the steps of an action or proceed­
ing. by his agreement filed with the clerk. or entered upon the min­
utes of the court and not otherwise; 
2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or pro­
reeding during· the pendency thereof. or after judgment. unless a
revocation of his authority is filed. and upon the payment thereof.
and not otherwise. to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction
of the judgment.

Section 9098. Compen11atio11 ot• Atto1•neyllf: The meas­
ure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is 
Jeft to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties.

Section 3097. Uhange ot· A.Uorne,·: The attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time hefore judg­
ment or final deter mination as follows : 
1. Upon his own consent, filed with the clerk. or entered upon
the minutes; 
2. Upon the order of the court or judge thereof. upon the appli­
cation of the client. after notice to the attorney. 

Section 3098. ~otiee of· (~hange: When an attorney is
changed. as provided in the last section. written notice of the change 
and of the substitution of a new attorney. or of the appearance of the
party in person. must he gfren to the adverse party; until then. he 
must recognize the former attorney. 
 
Section 3099. Deatlt or Re11101·aJ of· A.ttor11ey: When
an attorney dies. or is removed or suspended. or ceases to act as
such. a party to an action for whom he was acting as attorney must.
before any further proceedings are had against him. he required by
the adverse party. by written notice. tn appoint another attorney or 
to appear in person

Section 3100. Ca11•._.• Cor Remo,·al or Sul!lpeD8ien: 
.-\ n attorney and counselor may be removed or suspended by the
supreme court and by the district courts for either of the following
causes. arisinz after his admission to practice: 1. His conviction
, if a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude in which case
the record of convicition is conclusive evidence. 2. Wilful dis­ 
obedience 01· violation of an order of the court. re<1niring him to do
or forbear. an act connected with or in course of his profession and
any violation of the oath taken by him or his duties as such attorney
and counselor. 3. Corruptly and without authority appearing as
attorney for a party to an action or proceeding. 4. Lending his
name to be used as an attorney and counselor by any other person
who is not an attorney and counselor. 5. Failure for ten days after
written demand, and payment or tender of the fees and expenses due
him from his client to pay over or deliver any money or other prop­
erty belonging to his client which he shall have received in his
office of attorney or counselor in the course of collection or settle­
ment of any claim or demand. 6. Habitual intemperance to such
an extent that it disqualifies such attorney from faithfu1ly discharg­
ing the duties devolving upon him. And in all cases where an
attorney is removed or suspended by a district court, the judgment
or order of removal or suspension may be reviewed on appeal by the 
supreme court. 

Section 1101. Conviction of· Felo11y, lftoral Tur­ 
pitude: In case of the conviction of an attorney or counselor of a
felony. or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, the clerk of the
court in which a conviction is had. must. within thirty days there­
after. transmit to the supreme court a certified copy of the record of
conviction. 
 
Section 3109. Proceedins• tor Remo"Val or Sm1pen­ 
•lon: The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney and coun­
selor under the first sub-division of section 3 I oo. must be taken by
the court on receipt of a certified copy of the record of conviction.
The proceedings under the second sub-division of section 31 oo. may
he taken by the court for matters within its knowledge, or mav he 
taken upon the information of another.

Section 3103. A.ccu81ltion: If the proceedings arc upon 
the information of another. the accusation must he in writing, stating the matters charged and be ~erified by the oath of some person
to the effect that the charges therein contained are true. 

Section 3104-. Citation to A.nswer: After receiving the
accusation the court must. if in its opinion the case requires it, make 
an order requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusation
at a specified time in the same or subsequent term, and must cause a
copy of the order and of the accusation to be served upon the accused
within a prescribed time hefore the day appointed in the order.

Section 310:5. Appearance: The accused must appear at
the time appointed in the order and answer the accusation, unless for
sufficient cause the court assign another clay for that purpose; if he
does not appear, the court may proceed and determine the accusation 
in his absence.

Section 9106. Plea to A.ccusatien: The accused may
answer to the accusation either by objecting to its sufficiency or deny­ 
ing it.

Section :1107. De1n11rr~r: If he object to the sufficiency of
. the accusation. the objection must he in writing. but need not he in 
any specific form. it being- sufficient if it presents intelligibly the
grounds for the objection. T f he deny the accusation. the denial may
be oral and without oath. and must he entered upon the minutes. 

Section :nos. AnMwer: If an objection to the sufficiency of
the accusation he not sustained. the accused must answer within such
time as may he designated hy the court. 

Section 3109. Trial: If the accused plead J{ttilty. or refuse
to answer the accusation. the court must proceed to judgment of re­ 
moval or suspension. If he deny the matters charged. the court must.
at such time as it may appoint. proceed to try the accusation. 

Section at to. Rerere11c~: The court mav. in its discre­
tion. order a reference to a committee to take depositions in the matter

Section 3111. Jodl'Rlent: Upon conviction. in cases aris­
ing under the first sub-division of section 3100, the judgment of the 
court must be that the name of the party must be stricken from the 
roll of attornevs and counselors of the court. and that he be pre­
duded from ·practicing as such attorney or counselor in all the 
courts of this state. and upon conviction in cases under the other sub-divisions of that section, the judgment of the court may be accord­
ing to the gravity of the offense charged-deprivation of the right to practice as an attorney or counselor in the courts of this state, per­  divisions of that section, the judgment of the court may be accord ing to the gravity of the oﬁense charged—deprivation of the right to attorney or counselor in the courts of this state, per manently, or for a limited period. practice as an manently, or for a limited period.

Section 311~. One Form or Ci~U A..ctioo Only: There
is in this state but one form of civil actions for the enforcement or 
protection of private rights or the redress or prevention of private wrongs:
Provided, That in all matters not regulated by this Code,
in which there is any conflict or variance between the rules of equity
jurisprudence and the rules of the common law, with reference to
the same matter, the rules of equity shall prevail.

Section 3113. Partie• to Action• how Designated: In 
such actions the party complaining is known as the plaintifff, and the
adverse party as the defendant. 
 
Section 3114. Special 1 .. uee, Bow Tried: A question
of fact not put in issue by the pleadings may be tried by a jury upon
an order for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the question of
fact to be tried ; and such order is the only authority necessary for a 
trial. 

Section 3113. Commencement or CiYil A.c1ion11:
Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods prescribed
in this Chapter, after the cause of action shall have accrued, except
when in special cases. a different limitation is prescribed by statute. 

Section 3118. A.etien by the 8ta1e: The people of this
State will not sue any person for or in respect to any real property or
the issues or profits thereof, by reason of the right or title of the
people to the same unless: 
I. Such right or title shall have accrued within ten years before
any action or other proceeding for the same is commenced; or 
2. The people or those from whom they claim, shall have re­
ceived the rents and profits of such real property. or of some part 
thereof within the space of the ten years.

Section 3117. · A.etion• Uoncerniol' Real Propert,·: 
Xo action for the recovery of real property. or for the recovery of
the possession thereof. can be maintained. unless it appear that the
plaintifff. his ancestor, predecessor or grantor. was seized or possessed
of the property in question within five years before the commence­
ment of the action: and this Section includes pnssessory rights to lands
and mining claims.

Section 31 IS. A.c1ion or Defense A.rl8ing «tut oa·
Real Preper1y: No cause of action, or defense to an action
arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or profits out of
the same, can be effectual unless it appears that the person prosecut­
ing the action, or making the defense is made, or the ancestor, prede­
cessor, or grantor, of such person was seized or possessed of the prem­
ises in question within five years before the commencement of the act
in respect to which such action is prosecuted or defense made. 

Section 3119 Entry on Real E8tate: Xo entry upon
real estate is deemed sufficient or valid as a claim, unless an action 
be commenced thereupon within one year after making such entry,
and within five years of the time when the right to make it descended
or accrued. 
 
Section 3120. PNsef'•ion, When Pre•umed. Occu­
pation Deemed IJnder Title: In every action for the recov­
ery of real property. or the possession thereof, a person establishing
a legal title to the property is presumed to have been possessed thereof
within the tune required by Jaw. and the occupation of the property
by another person is deemed to have been under and in subordination
to the legal title. unless it appear that the property has been held and
possessed adversely to such legal title. for five years before the com­
mencement of the action.

Section 3121. O~copation 1Jnder Written ln11tru­
oaent or .Judgment, When Deemed A.dverae: When it 
appears that the occupant, or those under whom he claims, entered
into the possession of the property under claim of title, exclusive of
other right, founding such claim upon a written instrument, as being
a conveyance of the property in question, or upon the decree or judg­
ment of a competent court, and that there has been a continued occupa­
tion and possession of the property included in such instrument, decree
or judgment, or of some part of the property under such claim, for five
years, the property so included is deemed to have been held adversely
except that when it consists of a tract divided into lots, the possession
of one lot, is not deemed a possession of any other lot of the same tract. 

Section 3133. What f)onatit11tea A.dvene PoHe8sion: 
For the purpose of constructing an adverse possession by a person
claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment or
decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the fol­
lowing cases : 
I. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved; 
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
3. Where, although not inclosed it has been used for the supply 
of fuel, or of fencing timber for the purposes of husbandry. or for
pasturage, or for the ordinary use of the occupant; 
4. When a known farm or single lot has been partly improved.
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared,
or not enclosed according to the usual course and custom of the ad­
joining country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same
length of time as the part improved and cultivated. 

Section 3193. Presumption When Actually Occu­
pied Under Vlaim oC Title: Where it appears that there has
been an actual continued occupation of land. under a claim of title.
exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon a written instru­
ment. judgment or decree, the land so actually occupied. and no other.
is deemed to have heen held adversely. 

Section 3124. A.d't"ene P•••e••ioo. Ulaim of Tille.
Not Written: For the purpose of constituting an adverse posses­ 
Not
Written:
sion, by a person claiming title not founded upon a written instru­
ment, judgment, or decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and
occupied in the following cases only: 
sion,
ment,
I. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure ; 
2. 'Where it has been usually cultivated or improved. 
Provided, however, That in no case shall adverse possession be con­
sidered established under the provisions of any Sections of this Code,
unless it shall be shown that the land has been occupied and claimed
for the period of five years continuously, and the party or persons,
their predecessors and grantors, have paid all the taxes, State county,
er municipal, w.iich have beer. levied and assessed upon such land ac­
cording to law. 

Section 819:J. Relation of· Landlord and Tenant: 
When the relation of landlord and tenant has existed between any
persons, the possession of the tenant is deemed the possession of the
landlord until the expiraton of five years from the terminatiotrof the
tenancy or where there has been no written lease, until the expira­
tion of five years from the time of the last payment of rent, notwith­
standing that such tenant may have acquired another title, or may
have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord. But such presump­
tions cannot be made after the periods herein limited. 

Section 3126. Right of· Po .. et1•ion not A.ffeded b)·
De•cent Ca8t: The right of a person to the possession of real 
property is not impaired or affected by a descent cast in consequence
of the death of a person in possession of such property. 

Section 31W7. Certain DisabilitieN Excluded a·ron1
Time to ~ommence Actions: If a person entitled to com­
mence an action for the recovery of real property, or for the recoverv 
of the ;~·:,~session thereof. or ~"' make any entrv or defense founded 
on t~ic i.t le to real property. or to rents or services nut of the same. 
he at tiie t ·11e such title first descends or accrues. either: 
I. Within the age of majority: or
2. Insane; or 
2.
Insane;
or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution, upon con­
viction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life; or, 
3.
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary party with
her in commencing such action or making such entry or defense; 
The term during which such disability continuues is not deemed any
portion of the time in this Chapter limited for the commencement of
such action or the making of such entry or defense. but such action
may be commenced, or entry or defense made within the period of five
years after such disability shall cease. or after the death of the person
entitled who shall die under such disability hut such action shatl not 
be commenced, or entry or defense made, after that period. 

Section 3128. Period• oC Limitation• Prncribed: 
The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions other than
for the recovery of real property, are as fo11ows: 

Section 3129. Within Sb Yean: Within six years: 
I. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United
States. or of any State or territory within the United States. 
2. An action for mesne profits of real property. 

Section 3130. Within Fh·e Yean: \Vithin five years:
. \n action upon any contract. obligation. or liability founded upon 
an instrument in writing. 

Section 3131. Within Four 'l"ear.-: \Vithin four years:
An action upon a contract, obligation. or liability, not founded upon 
« n instrument of writing. 

Section 3132. Within Three years: Within three years:
I. An action upon a libility created by statute, other than a pen­
alty or forfeiture; 
I. An action upon a alty or forfeiture
;
2. An action for trespass upon real property; 
3. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring any goods or chat­
tels, includng actions for the specific recovery of personal property; 
4. An action for relief on 1 he ground of fraud or mistake. The
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until
the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the 
fraud or mistake. 

Section 3133. Within Two Years: \\'ithin two years: ~ection 3133. Within Two Years: \Yithin two years:  1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable. upon the liability incurred by the doing cf an act in his official capacity. and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty, includ­ ing the non-payment of money collected upon an execution:  1. An action against liability incurred by the doing a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon the of an act in his ofﬁcial capacity. and in virtue of his oﬂice, or by the omission of an official duty, includ ing the non-payment of money collected upon an execution: 2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to an individual. or to an individual and the State, ex­ cept where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitaton;  2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to an individual. or to an individual and the State, ex cept where the statute imposing it prescribes a different limitaton; 3. An action upon. ~ statute or upon an undertaking in a criminal 
action for a forfeiture or penalty to a county or to the people of the State;  action for a forfeiture or penalty to a county or to the people of the State; 4. An action to recover damages for the death of one caused by the wrongful act of another ;  the 5. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false imprison­ ment or seduction;  6. An action against a sheriff or other officer. for the escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process. 

Section 8184. Within One Year: Within one year
An action against an officer or officer de facto: 
1. To recover any goods, wares, merchandise, or other property
seized by any such officer in his official capacity as tax collector, or 
to recover the price or value of any goods, wares, merchandise or 
other personal property so seized. or for damages for the seizure, de­
tention, sale of or injury to. any goods. wares. merchandise, or other
personal property seized. or for damages done to any person or prop­
erty in making any such seizure : 
2. For money paid to any such officer under protest. or seized by
such officer in his official capacity as a collector of taxes; and which,
it is claimed, ought to be refunded. 

Section 3183. Within SiI Jftontl1t1: Actions on clairrs
against a county which have been rejected by the board of commis­
sioners. must he commenced within six months after the first rejection
thereof by such board. 

Section 3136. CamJe or A.ction A.~cr11e11 on . Jlutual
A.c~oun1: 1 n an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual. open and current account. where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties. the cause of action is deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on either
side.

Section 3137. No Limitation: To actions brought
to recover money or other property deposited with any hank, hanker,
trust company. or savings and loan society. no limitation begins to run
until after an authorized demand. 

Section 3138. Actions for Relief not Hereinbefore Provided for: An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for must be commenced within four years after the cause of action shall have accrued.

Section 3139. A.ctionw by the Peopl~ ~object •o
Limitation• oC Thi• Chapter: The limitations prescribed in
this Chapter, apply to actions brought in the name of the State. or
for the benefit of the State. in the same manner as to actions bv pri- 
vate parties. 

Section 3140. A..cti~n to Redeem a lffortga"e: An
action to redeem a mortgage of real property, with or without an
account of rents and profits. may be brought by the mortgagor or
those claiming under him, against the mortgagee in possession. or
those claiming under him. unless he or they have continuously main­
tained an adverse possession of the mortgaged premises for five years
after breach of some condition of the mortgage. 

Section 3141. When Therf" are Two or More Such
1'1orqage.: If there is more than one such mortgagor. or more
than one person claiming under a mortgagor. some of whom are not
entitled to maintain such an action under the provisions of this Chap­
ter. any one of them who is entitled to maintain such an action. may
redeem therein a divided or undivided part of the mortgaged prem­
ises. according as his interest may appear. and have an accounting for
a part of the rents and profits proportionate to his interest in the
mortgaged premises. on payment of a part of the mortgage money.
hearing the same proportion to the whole of such money as the value
of his divded or undivided interest in the premises. hears to the whole 
of such premises.

Section 3142. When an Action is Commenced: An
action is commenced within the meaning of this Chapter, when the complaint is filed.

Section 3143. Where De~ndant i• 8at ot· State: If, 
when the cause of action accrues against a person. he is out of the
State. the action may be commenced within the term herein limited,
after his return to the State, and it after the cause of action accrues,
he departs from the State, the time of his absence is not part of the
time limited for the commencement of the action. 

Seetion 8144:. Penena IJader Dit1Abllities: If a person 
entitled to bring an action, other than for the recovery of real prop­ 
erty, be, at the time the cause of action accrued, either :
r. Within the age of majority; or 
2. Insane ; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under the 
sentence of a criminal court for a term of less than for 1i fe; or
4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary party with 
her in commencing such action :
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the 
commencement of the action.

Section 3143. Where Penen Entitled Dies BeCor_.
Limitation lb:plrew: If a nerson entitled to bring an action <lie
hefore the expiration of the term limited for the commencement thereof.
amt the cause of action survive. an action may be commenced by his
representatives. after the expiration of that time, and within one year
from his death., If a person against whom an action may be brought
die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof. and the cause of action survive. an action may be commenced 
against Ms representatives, after the expiration of that time, and with­
in one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or of administra­
tion

Section 3148. In 811its by Alien•, Time of· War to 
be Deducted: When a person is an alien suhject. or citizen of a
country at war with the United States. the time of the continuance of 
the war is not part of the period limited for the commencement of the
action.

Section 3147. Where Judgment has been Reversed: Section :1147'. Where .Jod,rment ha• been ReTened:  If an action is commenced within the time prescribed therefore. and If an action is commenced within the time prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on appeal, the plaintifff. or if he die and the cause of action survive. his representatives may commence a new action within one year after the reversal. 

Section 1148. Where Ac1ion il!I Stayed by Injunc­ tion: \ Vhen the commencement of an action is stayed by injunc­ tion or statutory prohibition. the time of the continuance of the in­ junction or prohibition is not part of the time limited for the com­ mencement of the action.  Section 3148. \Vhen the commencement of an action is stayed by injunc tion or statutory prohibition. the time of the continuance of the in of the time limited for the com mencement of the action.

Section 3149. Disability must Exit when Right ot Ae tion Acerues: No person can avail himself of a disability, Section 3149. DiNability most Exi11t when Right of A.~­  tion A.ccroet1: No person can avail himself of a disability, unless  unless it existed when his it existed when his right of action accrued. 

Section 3150. When Two or More DieabilUi~ti E~­
i•t, Etc. \Vhen two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the
right of action accrues. the limitation does not attach until they are
removed.

Section 3151. A.ctionM A,rainlilt Director•, Etc.,
Limitations PN' scribed: This Chapter does not affect actions
against directors or stockholders of a corporation to recover a penalty
or forfeiture imposed. or to enforce a liability created hy law: but such
actions must be brought within three years after the discovery by the
aggrieved party of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture at­
tached. or the liability was created. 

Section 3139. A.cknowledcm e nt Mu~t b._. in Writ­ 
Inc: No acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evidence of a 
new or continuing contract, by which to take the case out of the o.p- 
eration of this Chapter, unless the same is contained m some writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby. 

Section 3153. Limitation Law• of' Other Sta1e8; Ef'· 
Cect oC When a cause of action has arisen in another State or ter­
ritory, or in a foreign country. and by the laws thereof an action there­
on cannot there be maintained against a person by reason of the lapse
of time. an action thereon shall not be maintained against him in this
State, except in favor of one who has been a citizen of this State. and
who has held the cause of action from the time it accrued. 

Section 3134. Word "A.dlen" Con•trued How: Thr
word "action" as used in this Chapter. is to be construed. whenever
it is necessary so to <lo. as including a special proceeding of a civil na­
ture.

Section 3155. Tobe in Name of Party in Intcrest= Section 313:1. To be In 1'ame oC Party in Intern•=  Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the rea1 party in in­ terest, except as otherwise provided hy this Code.

Section 31:18. A.Hil'DDlent not to Prejudice Def"en•e:
In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the as­
signee is without prejudice to any set-off, or other defense existing at
the time of, or before, notice of the assignment ; but this Section does
not apply to a negotiable instrument, transferred in good faith and
upon good consideration. before maturity. 

Section 3137. Executor, Tru.tee 1'1ay 8ue Without
Beneftciary: An executor, or administrator, or trustee of an ex­ 
press trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute may sue without 
joining with him the persons for whose benefit the action is prosecuted.
A person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the
benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning 
of this Section. 

Section 313S. Jffarried Woman atit Party: When a
married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, 
except: 
1. When the action concerns her separate property, or her right
or claim to the homestead property. she may sue alone; 
2. When the action is between herself and her husband. she may
sue or be sued alone; 
3. When she is living separate and apart from her husband, by
reason of his desertion of her. or by agreement in writing entered into
between them. she may sue or he sued alone. 

Section 3159. Wife May Defend, When: If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend her own right, and
if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

Section 8180. lnCant, Et~., to Appear by t.ioardian: 
When an infant, or an msane or incompetent person is a party, he
must appear either by his general guardian, or by a guardian ad litem
appointed by the court in which the action is pending in each case, or
by a judge thereof, or a probate judge. A guardian ad litem may be ap­
pointed in any case, when it is deemed by the court in which the action
or proceeding is prosecuted, or bv a judge thereof, expedient to repre-.
sent the infant, insane or incompetent person in the action or proceed­
ing, notwithstanding he may have a general guardian and may have
appeared by him.

Section 3181. Guardian, How &ppoin1ed: When a
guardian ad litern is appointed by the court or judge he must be ap­ 
pointed as follows: 
I. When the infant is plaintifff; upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon the
application of a relative or friend of the infant; 
2. When the infant is defendant; upon the application of the in­
fant, if he be of the age of fourteen years and apply within ten days
after the service of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen,
or neglect so to apply, then upon the application or any other party
to the action. or of a relative or friend of the infant; 
3. When an insane or incompetent person is party to an action 
or proceeding, upon the application of a relative or friend of such in­
sane or incompetent person. or of any other party to the action or pro­ 
ceeding.

Section 318~. Unmarried Female May Sue tltr Ber
Own !!lednctien: An unmarried female may prosecute, as plain­
tiff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such
damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as are assessed in her favor. 

Section 3183. 14,ather llay Sue Cor ~edu~tieo of·
Daol(hter: A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintifff for the seduction of a 
daughter, under the age of majority at the time of the seduction, and
the guardian for the seduction of a ward, under the age of majority
at the time of the seduction, though the daughter or ward be not liv­
ing with or in the service of the plaintifff at the time of the seduction
or afterwards, and there be no Joss of service. 

Section 3184. Suit for lnjnry or Death of' Child: 
A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother.
may maintain an action for the injury or death of a minor child, and
a guardian for the injury or death of his ward, when such injury or
death is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. Such action
may be maintained against the person causing the injury or death, or if
such person be employed by another person. who is responsible for his
conduct, also against such other person. 

Section 3183· When IRepre8eotath~tc 1'1aJ' So~,
Damag~t11: When the death of a person. not heing a minor, is
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. his heirs or per­
sonal representatives may maintain an action for damages against the 
person causing the death; or if such person be employed by another
person who is responsible for his conduct, then also against such
other person. In every action under this and the preceding Section
such damages may be given as under all the circumstances of the case
may be just. 

Section 3160. Who May be Joined as Plaintiffs:
:\11 persons having an interest in -fhe\_subject of the action, and in 
obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs, except when
otherwise provided in this Code.

Section 3167. Who May be Joined as Defendants: Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims an interest
in the controversy adv_erse. to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party 
to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved
therein. And in an. action to d.etermine the title or right of possession 
to real property which, at the time of the commencement of the action
is in the possession of a tenant, the landlord may be joined as a part;
defendant.

Sectien 3188. DeCendanttt in Action to Determio~
Adverse Clal•s: In an action brought by a person out of pos­
session of real property, to determine an adverse claim of an interest
or estate therein, the person making such adverse claim and persons
in possession may be joined as defendants; and if the judgment be
for the plaintifff, he may have a writ for the possession of the prem­ 
ises, as against the defendants in the action against whom the judg­
ment has passed. 

Section 3169. Claianaottt lJnder a £ommon Sour~e 
•C Title May Unite: Any two or more persons claiming any
estate or interest in lands under a common source of title, whether hold­
ing as tenants in common, joint tenants, coparceners, or in severalty,
may unite in an action against any person claiming an adverse estate
or interest therein, for the purpose of determning such adverse claim, 
or of establishing such common source of title, or of declaring the
same to be held in trust, or of removing a cloud upon the same. 

Section 3178. Parties in Interes1 When to b~
.Joined: Of the parties to the action, those who are united in in­
terest must be joined as plaintifffs, or defendants ; but if the consent
of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained,
he may be made a defendant. the reason thereof being stated in the
complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general in­
terest, of many persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is
impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue
or defend for the benefit of all.

Section 3171. Suing different parties to commecial paper: persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate instruments, may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the option of the plain-  instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same or separate any of tiff. 

Section 3179. A.•ociate• 1'1ay b~ Sued by Name· ·of 
~8NCiatioa: When two or more persons, associated in any busi­
ness, transact such business under a common name, whether it com­
prises the names of such persons or not, the associates may be sued
by such common name, the summons in such cases being served on
one or more of the associates; and the judgment in the action shall
bind the joint property of all the associates, in the same manner as
if all had been named defendants and had been sued upon their joint 
liability. 

Section 3173. Teaant• in Comm••, E1c., May 8e'l'er: 
All persons holding as tenants in common, joint tenants, or copar­
ceners, or any number less than all, may jointly or severally com­
mence or defend any civil action or proceeding for the enforcement
or protection of the rights of such party.

Section 317 4. A.ctiea, When aot to A.bate. Sub9ti·
tutioo: An action or proceeding does not abate by the death or any
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein. if the
cause of action or proceedings survive or continue. In case of the
death or any disability of a party. the court. on motion, may allow
the action or proceeding to be continued by or against his representa­
tive or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest,
the action or proceeding may be continued in the name of the original
party, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made
to be substituted in the action or proceeding. 

Section 7:5. A.nother Per11en may be 8ob81ituted
Cor Derendaot: A defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract, or for specific personal property, may, at any time be­
fore answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action
makes against him, and without any collusion with him, a demand
upon the same contract, or for the same property, upon notice to such
person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order to sub­
stitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liability to
either party, on his depositing in court the amount claimed on the con­
tract, or delivering the property or its value, to such person as the court
may direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.

Section at 78. Confl.ieting (~laims, lnterpleader, !!lub11titutien: Whenever conflicting claims are or may be made upon 
a person for or relating to personal property, or the performance of
an obligation, or any portion thereof, such person may bring an action
against the conflicting claimants to compel them to interplead and lit­
igate their several c1aims among themselves. The order of substi­
tution may be made, and the action of interpleader may be maintained,
and the applicant or plaintifff be discharged from liability to all or any
of the conflicting claimants. although their titles or cJaims have not a
common origin, or are not identical, but are adverse to and independ­
ent of one another. 

Section 31'1'1. Intervention, when and how: Any
person may, before the trial. intervene in an action or proceeding, who
has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the success of either of
the parties. or an interest against both. An intervention takes place
when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action or 
proceeding between other persons, either by joining the plaintifff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the de­
fendant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff. or by demanding
anything adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant. and is made
by complaint. setting forth the grounds upon which the intervention
rests. filed by leave of the court, and served upon the parties to the
action or proceeding who have not appeared and upon the attorneys of
parties who have appeared. who may answer or demur to it as if it 
were an original complaint. 

Section 31 '7~. When to Decide CoatroverAy or to
Order Other Partiet!I Brought in: The court may determine
anv controversy between parties before it. when it can he done with­
out prejudice to the rights of others, or hy saving their rights; .but
when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had with­
out the presence of other parties. the court must then order them to be
brought in. and thereupon the party, directed by the court. must cause
to be served a copy of the summons in the action. and the order afore­
said, in like manner as provided for the service of the summons, upon
each of the parties ordered to be brought in. who shall have ten days or
such time as the court may order. after service in which to appear and
plead and in case such party fail to appear and plead within the time
aforesaid. the court mav cause his default to he entered and pro­
ceed as in other cases of default. or make such other order
as the condition of the action and justice sha11 require, and when. in an
action for the recovery of real or personal property. a person not a 
party to the action, but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes 
application to the court to be made a party, it may order him to be
brought in by the proper amendment. 

Section 31,e. A.ction A.fl9 e ctlog Realty 'I riable where
Subject Situated: Actions for the following causes must
be tried in the county in which the subject of the action or some part
thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this Code: 
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein. or for the determination in any form of such right or interest
and for injuries to real property: 
2. For the partition of real property;
3. For the forec1osure of a mortgage of real property. Where 
the real property is situated partly in one county and partly in another,
the plaintifff may select either of the counties. and the county so selected
is the proper county for the trial of such action.

Section 9180. Other Actions w·t,ere the Ca11se Aro.-~: 
Actions for the following causes must be tried in the county where
the cause, or some part thereof. arose, subject to the like power r . i 
court to change the place of trial: 
T. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute,
except. that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake,
river or other stream of water. situated in two or more counties, the 
action may be brought in any county bordering on ~4Ch lake, river,
or stream. and opposite to the place where the offense was committed; 
2. Against a public officer. or person specially appointed to exe­
cute his duties, for any act done by him in virtue of his office; or
against a person who. by his command or in his aid, does anything 
touching the duties of such officer. 
Section 3181. Place eC Trial ot A.ctlon• A.gal•••
Ceontie8: An action against a county may be commenced and 
tried in such county, unless such action is brought by a county, in
which case it may be commenced and tried in any county. not a party 
thereto. 

Section 51S9. A.ctlon• According t• Re•idence oC
Partin: In all other cases the action must be tried in the county
in which the defendants. or some of them reside at the commence­
ment of the action : or. if none of the defendants reside in the State.
or; if residing in this State. the county in which they reside is un-l
known to the plaintifff. the same mav he tried in anv countv which the
plaintifff may designate in his complaint: and if the. defend~nt is about 
to depart from the State. such action may be tried in any county where
either of the parties reside or service is had: subject however. to the
power of the court to change the place of trial as provided in this Code.
Provided, That in all actions against life or fire insurance companies
suit or action mav he commenced and tried in the countv where the 
, death occurred or· the loss was sustained. 

Section 3183. Right WaiYed 1Jnle8fl Demanded by 
Def"endaat: 
f t}w countv in which the action is commenced is
not the proper county for the trial thereof. the action may. notwith­
standing, he tried therein. unless the defendant. at the time he appears
and answers or <lemurs. files an affidavit of merits, and demands, in 
writing, that the trial be had in the prop~r county. 

Section 8184. Grounds for
Change:
The court
may,
Sectlea 3184. Ground• Cor Change: The court may,
on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases : 
1. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county; 
2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot
be had therein; 
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice
would be promoted by the change; 
4. When from any cause the judge is disqualified from acting. 

Section 3183. Court to which Cause 1nm!lt be TranM­ 
rerred: If an action or proceeding is commenced or pending in a
court. and the judge or justice thereof is disqualified from acting as
such. 'or if for anv cause the court orders the place of trial to he
changed. it must be transferred for trial to a court the parties may
agree upon hy stipulation in writing. or made in open court and entered
in the minutes: or. if they do not so agree. then to the nearest court
where the like objection or cause for making the order does not exist, 
as follows: 
r. If in the district court. to another district court: 
2. If in the probate court, to the district court of the same county;
J. J f in a justice's court. to another justice's court in the same 
county. 

Section 3186. Paprr• to be Transmitted. Co8C8.
Jurisdiction: When an order is made transferring an. action or
proceeding for trial, the clerk of the court, or justice of the peace,
must transmit the pleadings and papers therein to the clerk or justice
of the court to which it is transferred. The costs and fees thereof,
and of filing the papers anew, must be paid by the party at whose in­
stance the order was made. The court to which an action or proceed­
ing is transferred has and exercises over the same the like jurisdiction
as if it had been originally commenced therein. 

Section 3187. Pro~eediog8 after Judgment in Cer­
tain Ca8H Traot1Cerred: When an action or proceeding affect­
ing the title to or possession of real estate has been brought in or
transferred to any court of a county other than the county in which
the real estate, or some portion of it. is situated, the clerk of such court
must, after final judgment therein. certify, under his seal of office, and
transmit to the corresponding court of the county in which the real es­
tate affected by the action is situated, a copy of the judgment. The
clerk receiving such copy must file. docket. and record the judgment in
the records of the court. briefly designating it as a judgment transferred from court ( naming the proper court). 

Section 31SS. Action, Bow Commenced: Civil actions
in the courts of this State are commenced by filing a complaint. 
The plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint in such action.
shall pay to the clerk of said court the sum of three dollars, which 
sum said clerk shall, on the first Monday of each month after the
receipt thereof, pay into the State treasury. and it sha11 be placed by
the State treasurer to the credit of the general fund. 
sum said clerk shall, on the ﬁrst Monday of each month after the receipt thereof, pay into the State treasury. and it shall be placed by the State treasurer to the credit of the general fund.
The clerk must indorse on the complaint. the year. month. day. hour
and minute that it is filed.

Section 3189. Notice oC Pendency oC &ctien, 8011· 
GiYen: In an action affecting the title or the right of possession of
real property, the plaintifff at the time of filing the complaint, and
the defendant at the time of filing his answer. when affirmative relief
is claimed in such answer, or at any time afterwards. may file for
record with the recorder of the county in which the property or some
part thereof is situated. a notice of the pendency of the action, contain­
ing the names of the parties, the object of the action or defense, 'and
a description of the property in that county affected thereby. From the
time of filing such notice for record only shal1 a purchaser or incum­
brancer of the property affected thereby he deemed to have construc­
tive notice of the pendency of the action. and only of its pendency
against parties designated by their real names. 

Section 3190. "ummon11, Wai'ver ofi .-\t any time within
one year after filing complaint the plaintifff may have a summons is­
sued ; and if the action be brought against two or more defendants
who reside in different counties, may have a summons issued for each 
of
of .sai~ counties. But at any time within the year after the com­
plaint is filed, the defendant may in writing, or by appearing and
answering or demurring, waive the issuing of summons, or if the ac­ 
_said_
tion be brought upon a joint contract of two or more defendants, and
one of them has appeared within the year, the other or others may 
be served or appear after the year, at any time before trial. 

Section 3191. Summon,, Row IHued, Dir~cted, and
what to Contain: · The summons must be directed to the defend­
ant, signed by the clerk, and issued under the seal of the court and 
must contain : 
1. The names of the parties to the action, the court in which it
is brought, and the county in which the complaint is filed; 
2. A statement of the nature of the action in general terms:
3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer the com­ 
plaint within ten days. if the summons is served within the county in
which the action is brought: within twenty (lays if served nut of the
county. but in the district in which the action is brought. and within
forty days if served elsewhere: 
4. In an action arising on contract. for the recovery of money or
damages only. a notice that unless the defendant so appears and an­
swers, the plaintifff will take judgment for the sum demanded in the
complaint ( stating it) ; 
.5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so appears and
answers. the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
in the complaint. The name of the plaintifff's attorney must be in­
dorsed on the summons. 

Section 8199. .~lias Summen•: If the summons is re­
turned without being served on any or all the defendants, the clerk,
upon the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias summons in the
same form as the original. 

Section 8198. Summons, how Sertred and Returo.-_d: 
The summons may be served by the sheriff of the county where the
defendant is found, or by any other person over the age of eighteen,
not a party to the action. A copy of the complaint must be served with
the summons, unless two or more defendants are residents of the same
county, in which case a copy of the complaint need only be served upon
one of such defendants. When the summons is served by the sheriff.
it must be returned with the certificate of its service. and of the service
of a copy of the complaint, when such copy is served, to the office of the
clerk from which it issued. When it is served by any other person. i~
must be returned to the same place. with an affidavit of such person. of
its service, and of the service of a copy of the complaint. when such
copy is served. 

Section. 319<1. Summons, 1'1anner oC Ser,·iee: The
summons must he served by delivering a copy thereof as follows : 
r , If the suit is against a corporation formed under the laws' of
this State to the president or other head of the corporation. secretary,
cashier or managing agent thereof. 
2. If the suit is against a foreign corporation. or a non-resident
joint stock company. or association doing business and having a man­
aging or business agent. cashier or secretary within this State to such 
agent, cashier or secretary, or to any station, ticket or other agent of
such corporation transacting business thereof in the county where the
action is commenced, and if there is no such agent in said county, then
service may be had upon any such agent in any other county. 
such corporation transacting business thereof in the county where the action is commenced, and if there is no such agent in said county, then service may be had upon any such agent in any other county.
3. And whenever any foreign corporation or non-resident joint
stock company or association, doing business within the State of
Idaho, shall not have any designated person actually residing in the
county in which said corporation or joint stock company shall be do­
ing business within this State upon whom process issued by author­
ity of or under any law of tnis State may be served as provided in Section 2162 of the Civil Code of Idaho, or when any such corpora­
tion or joint stock company having .appointed such person or agent as
provided in said Section 2 I 62, and said agent or person so designated,
shall have removed from, or ceased to be a resident. or be absent for
more than thirty days from said county, then the auditor of said coun­
ty shall be and is hereby designated as the authorized agent of said
corporation or joint stock company upon whom process issued by au­
thority of or under any law of this State may be served with like effect
as though said service were made upon the agent or person appointed
or designated as provided in Section 2162 of the Civil Code of Idaho. 
3.
4. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years residing
within this State, to such minor personally, and also to his father,
mother or guardian, or if there be none within this State, then to
any person having the care or control of such minor or with whom
he resides or in w hose service he is employed. 
5. If against a person residing in this State who has been judicially
declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own 
affairs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed. to such person
and also to ais guardian. 
6. If against a county, city or town. to the chairman of the hoard
of commissioners, president of the council. or trustee or other head
of the legislative department thereof. 
7. In all other cases, to the defendant personally. 

Section 3l95. Service
by
Publication,
(lrder for:
Se~tioo 319:1. Service by Poblieatioo, Order for: 
When the person on whom the service i's to be made resides out of the
State, or has departed from the State, or cannot, after due diligence,
be found within the State, or conceals himself to avoid the service
of summons, or is a foreign corporation having no managing or busi­
ness agent, cashier, or secretary within the State, and the fact appears
by affidavit to the satisfaction of the court or a judge thereof, or a pro­
bate judge, and it also appears by such affidavit, or by the verified com­
plaint on file that a cause of action exists against the defendant in re­
spect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or
proper party to the action, such court or judge may make an order that
the service be made by the publication of the summons. 

Section 3196. SerYice by Poblicatioa, Bow· .Mad~:
The order must direct the publication to be made in a newspaper to
~ .. e designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least
once a week; but publication against a defendant residing out of the
state or absent therefrom. must not be less than one month. In case
of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or absent de­
fendant is known, the court or judge must direct a copy of the sum­
mons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office. di­
rected to the person to be served at his place of residence. When
publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and
complaint out of the state, is equivalent to publication and deposit in
the postoffice; and in either case the service of the summons is com­ 
plete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publi­
cation. 

Section 319'7. Several Defendants, Part enly ~ern~d;
Proceeding: When the action is against two or more defendants
jointly or severally liable on a contract and the summons is served
on one or more but not on all of them, the plaintifff may proceed against
the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants. 

Section 3198. ProoC oC SerTice, Do"· Mad~: Proof of
the service of summons and complaint must be as follows : 
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; 
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his fore­ 
man or principal clerk, showing the same; and an affidavit of a de­
posit of a copy of the summons in the postoffice if the same has been
deposited; or, 
4. The written admission of the defendant. In case of service
otherwse than by publication, the certificate or affidavit must state
the time and place of service.

Section 3199. Jori•dictlon, When A.cquired, Ap­
pearance•: From the time of the service of the summons and of
a copy of a complaint in a civil action, where service of a copy of
the complaint is required, or of the completion of the publication,
when service by publication is ordered, the court is deemed to have
acquired jurisdiction of the parties and to have control of all the
subsequent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a defendant
is equivalent to personal service of the summons and copy of the
complaint upon him. 

Section 3900. Pleadin,r• Defined: The pleadings are
the formal allegations by the parties of their respective claims and
defenses, for the judgment of the court. 

Section 3901. Thi• Uode Pre.~rlbes Form and Boin: 
The forms of pleadings in civil actions, and the rules by which the
sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, are those prescribed
in this Code.

Section 390~. What Pleading• are A.llowed: The
only pleadings allowed on the part of the plaintifff are: 
1. The complaint; 
2. The demurrer to the answer ;
And on the part of the defendant : 
1. The demurrer to the complaint ; 
2. The answer. 

Section 3903. Complaint, Fir•t Pleading: The first
pleading on the part of the plaintifff is the complaint. 

Section 3904. ()omplaint, What to Contain: The
complaint must contain : 
I. The title of the action, the name of the court and county in
which the action is brought, and the names of the parties to the ac­
tion; 
2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action. in
ordinary and concise language; 
3--:-·· A demand of the relief which the plaintifff claims; if the re­
covery of money or damazes he demanded, the amount thereof must 
he stated. 

Section 3~0:J. What Causes or A.ction l11ay hf"
Joined: The plaintifff may unite several causes of action m the
same complaint, where they .. , 11 arise out of: 
I. Contracts! express or implied ; 
2. Claims to recover specific .real property. with or without dam­
ages for the withholding thereof. or for waste committed thereon. 
and the rents and profits of the same; 
3. Claims to recover specific personal property. with or without
damages for the withholding thereof; 
4. Claims against a trustee by virtue nf a contract. or by operation of law;
5. Injuries to character;
6. Injuries to person;
7. Injuries to property.
The causes of action so united must all belong to one only of these
classes, and must affect all the parties to the action and not require
different places of trial. and must be separately stated; but an action
for malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united
with an action for either an injury to the character or to the person. 

Section 3906. When DeCendant lffay Dt'mur: The
defendant may demur to the complaint within the time required in
the summons to answer, when it appears on the face thereof, either: 
r. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defend­
a11~ or the subject -r the action; or,
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or
3. That · uere is another action pending between the same parties
fnr the sarr e cause: or.
. That there is a defect or mis joinder of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or, . 
4.
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united: or.
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute 
a cause of action; or,
/ 7. That the comp1aint is ambiguous, unintelligible or uncertain. 

Section 3907. Speclflcatioa or Ground•, Extent or
Demurrer: The demurrer must distinctly specify the grounds
upon which any of the objections to the complaint are taken. Un­
less it do so it may be disregarded. It may be taken to the whole
complaint or to any of the causes of action stated therein, or the de­
fendant may demur and answer at the same time. 

Section 3~08. Proceeding• When Complaint I•
A.mended: 1f the complunt is amended, a copy of the amend­
ments mu-t Le filer' or the ,:,:,,1n may, in its discretion, require- the 
complaint. as amended, to be, filed: and a copr of the amendments
or amended complaint, must be served upon the defendants affected
therebv. The defendant must answer the amendment or the com­
plaint., as amended, within ten days after service thereof, or such
other time as the court may direct, and judgment by default may be
entered upon failure to answer, as in other cases.

Section 8989. Obj~tlon noi A.ppearing on C.om­
plaint Talie• by A.n811·er: \ Vhen any of the matters enumer­ 
ated in section 32o6 do not appear upon the face of the complaint.
the objection may be taken by answer. 

Section 3'118. Objection•, Wh~n Deemed Wah~d: 
If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer. the defendant
must be deemed to have waived the same excepting only the objec­
tion to the jurisdiction of the court. and the ohjection that the com­
plaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

Section 3~11. Answer, What to (;ontaln: The ans­
wer of the defendant shall contain: 
1. A general or specific 'denial of the material allegations of the
complaint controverted by the defendant; 
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or coun­
ter claim. If the complaint be verified, the denial of each allega­
tion controverted must be specified, and be made positively or accord­
ing to the information and belief of the defendant. If the defendant
has no information or belief upon the subject sufficient to enable him
to answer an a11egation of the complaint, he may so state in his ans­
wer, and place his denial on that ground. If the complaint be not
verified a general denial is sufficient, but only puts in issue the ma- 
terial allegations of the complaint. 

Section 3212. When Counter Claim to be Set lJpt
The counterclaim mentioned in the last section must be one exist­ 
ing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff, between whom a
several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of one
of the following causes of action: 
1. A cause of action arising out of the transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaitniff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action; 
2. In an action arising upon contract; any other cause of action
arising also upon contract and existing at the commencement of the action.

Ssection 3213. When the Defendant Omits to Set Up Counter Claim: If the defendant omits to set up a counterclaim in the cases mentioned in the first sub-division of the last section,
neither he nor his assignee can afterwards maintain an action against 
the plaintifff therefore. 

Section 9g14. cr .. 8 Demand• Deemed (;ompensated: 
When cross demands have existed between persons under such cir­
cumstances that, if one had brought an action against the other, a
counterclaim could have been set up, the two demands shall be
deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other, and neither
can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of
the other. 

Section 3215. An•wer ftay Con1ain Several Gro11nd8
oC DeCen11e: The defendant may set forth by answer as many de­
fenses and counterclaims as he may have. They must be separate­
ly stated, and the several defenses must refer to the causes of action
which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may
be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may also answer one or
more of the several causes of action stated in the complaint and de­ 
mur to the residue. 

Section 9918. Cross-Complaint, Service and Proceed­
ing•: Whenever the defendant seeks affirmative relief against any
party, relating to or depending upon the contract or transaction upon
which the action is brought, or affecting the property to which the
action relates, he may, in addition to his answer, file at the same
time, or by permission of the court subsequently, a cross-complaint.
The cross-complaint must be served upon the parties affected there­
by, and such parties may demur or answer thereto as to the original 
complaint. 

Section 3917'. Demurrer to A.n8wer: The plaintifff may,
within the same Jength of time after service. of the answer as the de­
fendant is allowed to answer after service of summons, demur to the
answer of the defendant, or to one or more of the several defenses or
counterclaims set up in the answer. 

Section 3918. Grouod8 oC Demurrer: The demurrer
may be taken upon one or more of the following ~unds: 
1. That several causes of counterclaim have been improperly
joined; - .. - ,_- 
2. That I he answer CJC'es no: state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense or counter c lairn : 
,. That the answer is ar, ·1~ig1: ous, unintelligible or uncertain. 

Section 3219. Veriftcation oC Pleadings: Every plead­
ing must be subscr.bed by the party or his attorney; and when the
complaint is verified, or when the state, or any officer of the state,
in his official capacity, is plaintifff, the answer must be verified unless
an admission of the truth of the complaint might subject the party
to a criminal prosecution, or unless an officer of the state, in his
official capacity, is defendant. In all cases of a verification of a
pleading, the affidavit of the party must state that the same is true of
his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated
to be on his information or belief, and as to those matters, that he
believes it to be true; and where a pleading is verified, it must be by
the affidavit of a party, unless the parties are absent from the county
where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable to verify it, or
the facts are within the knowledge of his attorney, or other person
verifying the same. When the pleading is verified by the attorney,
or any other person except one of the parties, he must set forth in
the affidavit the reasons why it is not made by one of the parties.
When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any 
officer thereof.

Section 3990. Written Inatrumeat•; 1Ja,·eriffed A.a­
•wer A.dmit•: When an action is brought upon a written instru­ 
ment, and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or a
copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such
instrument are deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same
he verified.

Section 3'1'11. GenuineneH oC la•tr11n1ent, Bow· Con1roYerted: When the defense to an action is founded on a written
instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the answer, or is an­
nexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of such instru­
ment are deemed admitted, unless the plaintifff file with the clerk,
within ten days after receiving a copy of the answer, an affidavit
denying the same, and serve a copy thereof on the defendant. 

Section 3~9g. E~ception8 to Rules Pre1t'ribed by
Two Pre,~eding Sec,ioo•i But the execution of the instruments
mentioned in the two preceding sections, is not deemed admitted by
a failure to deny the same under oath, if the party desiring to con­
trovert the same, is, upon demand, refused an inspection of the orig­
inal. Such demand must be in writing, served by copy, upon the ad­
verse party or his attorney, and filed with the papers in the case.

Section 3~.W:I. Pleading• to be Liberally Uon8troed:
In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its
effect, its allegations must be liberally construed with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.

Section 3224. Sham and Irrelevant A.n8wen, Et~., 
May be Stricken Out: Sham and irrelevant answers, and ir­
relevant and redundant matter inserted in a pleading, may be stricken
out, upon such terms as the court may in its discretion, impose.

Section 3~9:1. !!itatement eC Account, Demand Cor.
Item•: It is not necessary for a party to set forth in pleading the
items of an account therein alleged, but he must deliver to the ad­
verse party within ten days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy
of the account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The
court or a judge thereof, may order a further account when the one
delivered is too general or is defective in any particular. 

Section 3228. Dn~ription of' R~al Proper1y in a
Pleadinc: In an action for the recovery of real property. it must
he described in the complaint with such certainty as to enable an of­
ficer. upon execution, to identify it.

Section 3~97. Judgment•, Howp Pleaded: In pleading a
judgment or other determination of a court. officer or hoard. it is not 
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may he stated to have been duly given or made. If
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish on
the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction. 

Section 3228. Conditions Precedent, Hew Pleaded: 
T n pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, 
it is not necessary to state the facts showing such performance. but it
may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the con­
ditions on his part, and if such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish on the trial the facts showing such perform­
ance. 

Section 3"~9. Statute oC Limltafion8, Bow Pleaded: 
I n pleading the statute of limitations it is not necessary to state the
facts showing the defense. but it may be stated generally that the
cause of action is barred by the provisions of section . . . . . . ( giving
the number of the section and sub-division thereof. if it is so divided.
relied upon) of the Code of Civil Procedure; and if such a11egation fie
controverted. the party pleading must establish on the trial the
facts showing that the cause of action is so barred. 

Section nae. Private Statute, Bew Pleade-d: In
pleading a private statute or a right derived therefrom, it is sufficient 
to refer to such statute by its title and the day of its passage. 

Section 3231. Libel ••d •••oder, How Stated in
~omplalat: In an action for libel or slander, it is not necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for ·the purpose of show­ 
ing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of
which the cause of action arose; but it is sufficient to state, generally.
that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and
if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff must establish on the 
trial that it was so published or spoken.

Section 3232 A.newer in Such Uaeee: In the actions
mentioned in the last Section, the defendant may in his answer. al­
lege both the truth of the matter charged as defamatory. and any 
mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of damages: and
whether he prove the justification or not. he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances. 

Section 3983. A.llegatlone not Denied, When to bfa 
Deemed True: Every material allegation of the complaint not
controverted by the answer. must. for the purposes of the action, be
taken as true: the statement of any new matter in the answer, in
avoidance or constituting a defense or counterclaim. must. on the trial
he deemed controverted by the opposite party.

Section 3~34. A. Material A.llegafion Defined: A
material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or de­
fense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without
leaving it insufficient. 

Section 3"3:J. Supplementary Complainf and
A.nwwer: The plaintifff and defendant, respectively may be allowed,
on motion. to make a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts
material to the case occurring after the former complaint or answer. 

Section 1938. Pl~ding• to be Flied and 8erYed: All 
pleadings subsequent to the complaint must be filed with the clerk
and copies thereof served upon the adverse party, or his attorney 

Seetion 3937. Variance, When lllaterlal: No variance
between the allegation in a pleading and the proof is to be deemed
material, unless it has actually misled the adverse party to his preju­
dice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. When­
ever it appears that the party has been so misled, the court may or­
der the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as may be just.

Section 3238. Immaterial Variance, Row PreYided
Cer: Where the variance is not material. as provided in the last Sec­ 
tion. the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evi­
dence, or may order an immediate amendment, without costs. 

Section 3!139. What not to be Deemed a Variance: 
Where. however. the allegation of the claim or defense to which the
proof is directed. is unproved, not in some particular or particulars
only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a
case of variance. within the last two Sections, but a failure of proof. 

Section 3940. A.111eodment11 or Coone and Etrect or
Demurrer: Any pleading may be amended once by the party of
course. and without costs. at any time before answer or demurrer
filed. or after demurrer and before the trial of the issue of law there­
on, by filing the same as amended, and serving a copy on the adverse
party. who may have ten days thereafter in which to answer or de­
mur to the amended pleading. A demurrer is not waived by filing
an answer at the same time: and when the demurrer to complaint is
overruled and there is no answer filed. the court may upon such terms
as may be just! allow an answer to be filed. If a demurrer to the
answer be overruled. the facts alleged in the answer must be considered
as denied, to the extent mentioned in Section 3233. 

Section 3~41. A.mendmentt1, Discrdion and Pow·~r. 
oCCo11rt: The court may. in furtherance of justice and on such
terms as may be proper. allow a party to amend any pleading or pro­
ceeding hy adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correct­
ing a mistake in the name of a party. or a mistake in any other re­
spect. and may. upon like terms. enlarge the time for answer or de- 
terms as
, murrer. The court may likewise. in its discretion. after notice to the
adverse party, allow upon such terms as may be just. an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars and may. upon
like terms, allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this 
Code, and also relieve a party. or his leg-al representative from a 
judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against him through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect ; and when­
ever, for any reason satisfactory to the court or the judge thereof,
the party aggrieved has failed to apply for the relief sought during
the term at which such judgment, order, or proceeding complained
of was taken, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may grant
the relief upon application made within a reasonable time, not exceed­
ing six months after the adjournment of the term. When from
any cause the summons in an action has not been personally served 
on the defendant, the court may allow, on such terms as may be just,.
such defendant, or his legal representative at any time within . one :;., · ·. 
year after the rendition of any judgment in such action, to answer to .. - · 
the merits of the original action. When in an action to recover tht . 
possession of personal property, the person making any affidavit did
not truly state the value of the property and the officer taking the
property or the sureties on any bond or undertaking, is sued for taking the same, the officer or sureties may, in their answer, set up the
true value of the property, and that the person in whose behalf said
affidavit was made, was entitled to the possession of the same, when
said affidavit was made or that the value in the affidavit stated was
inserted by mistake, the court shall disregard the value as stated in
the affidavit and give judgment according to the right of possession of 
said property at the time the affidavit was made.

Section 3g~;UI. Suing a Party by a Fictitious Name,
When &llow~ed: When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of a 
defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, and such defendant
may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must 
be amended accordingly.

Section 3g43. Ne .Error or De.Cect Regarded 1Jnle88 
It A.fleets Substantial Rishts: The court must, in every
stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or
proceedings which does not affect the substantial rights of the par­
ties and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such 
error or defect.

Section 394 4. ~ rret1t11 Limited to Provision• of'
Cede: No person can be arrested in a civil action, except as pre­
scribed in this Code.

Section 3943. Defendant, When Subject to &rrnt: 
The defendant may he arrested as hereinafter prescribed, in the fol­
lowing cases: 
1. In an action for the recovery of money or damages on a cause
of action arising upon a contract express or implied where the de­
fendant is about to depart from the State with intent to defraud his
creditors, or when the action is for willful injury to person, to char­
acter. or to property. knowing the property to belong to another;
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry,
or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or
converted to his own use, by a public officer or an officer of a cor­
poration, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course
of his employment as such or by any other person in a fiduciary ca­
pacity; or for misconduct or neglect in office or in a professional em­ 
ployment or for a willful violation of duty ;
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property 
unjustly deatined when the property, or any part thereof, has been
concealed, removed, or disposed of to prevent its being found or taken 
by the sheriff ;
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting 
the debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought;
or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, deten­
tion, or conversion of which the action is brought; 
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property,
or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. 

Section 3948. Order Cor .&rre•t, by Whom Made: An
order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained from a judge 
of the court in which the action is brought or from a probate judge. 

Section 3247. A.tlldarit Cor Order oC A.rrest Reqoi­
~Ue: The order may be made whenever it appears to the judge,
by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or some other person, that a sufficient
cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned in Section 3245. The affidavit must be either positive or upon infor­
mation and belief; and when upon information and belief, it must
state the facts upon which the information and belief are founded. 
If an order of arrest be made, the affidavit must be filed with the
clerk of the court.

Section 3g-1:s. 1Jndertakiog Required oC Plaintiffl
Before making the order, the judge must require a written under­ 
taking on the part of the plaintifff. with sureties in an amount to be
fixed by the judge, which must be at least five hundred dollars, to
the effect that the plaintifff will pay all costs which may be adjudged 
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of
the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or without sufficient cause, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. The undertaking
must be filed with the clerk of the court.

Section 39~9. Order Wile• 1'1ade, and It• t,orm:
The order may be made at the time of the issuing of the summons,
or at any time afterwards before judgment. It must require the 
sheriff of the county where the defendant may be found, forthwith
to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified sum and to return
the order at a time therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending.

Section 8938. Service eC A.adaYit and Order: The
order of arrest, with a copy of the affidavit upon which it is made, 
must be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant,
must deliver to him a copy of the affidavit, and also, if desired, a 
copy of the order of arrest. 

Section 93l. A.rre.t, Bew 1'1ade: The sheriff must 
execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in
custody until discharged by law.

Section 3939. Def'endant te be Di•charged on Bail 
or Depo•U: The defendant, at any time before execution, must
be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or depositing
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest.

Section 8933. Ball, Bow GIYen: The defendant may
give bail by· causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or
more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest that the defendant will at
all times render himself amenable to the process of the court, during
the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein, or that they will pay to the plaintifff the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered in the action

Section 8934. Surrender eC DeCendant: At any time
before judgment or within ten days thereafter, the bail may sur­
render the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender him­ 
self to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested. 

Section 8933. Procedure upo11 ~urreoder when Bail 
Esooerated: For the purpose of surrendering the defendant. the
bail, at any time or place before they are finally charged, may them- 
selves arrest, or, by a written authority indorsed on a certified copy
of the undertaking, may empower the sheriff to do so. Upon the
arrest of defendant by the sheriff, or upon his delivery to the sheriff
by the bail, or upon his own surrender, the bail are exonerated, if 
such arrest, delivery, or surrender take place before the expiration of
ten days after judgment; but if such arrest, delivery, or surrender
be not made within ten days after judgment, the bail are finally
charged on their undertaking, and bound to pay the amount of the
judgment within ten days thereafter. 

Section 8~38. Ball, Row Proceeded A.gainst: If the
bail neglect or refuse to pay the judgment within ten days after they
are finally charged, an action may be commenced against such bail
for the amount of the original judgment. 

Section 1937. Ball, hew Exonera1ed: The bail are ex­
onerated by the death of the defendant or his imprisonment in the 
State _prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render
himself amenable to the process.

Section 1938. Return oC ProceH, Exception• to 1Ja­
dertaking: Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff 
must file the order of arrest in the office of the clerk of the court in
which the action is pending, with his return indorsed thereon; to­
gether with a copy of the undertaking of the bail. The original
undertaking he must retain in his possession until filed, as herein
provided. The plaintifff within ten days thereafter, may serve upon
the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he is deemed to
have accepted them, and the sheriff is exonerated from liability. If
no notice be served within ten days, the original undertaking must
be filed with the clerk of the court. 

Section 19:19. :Notice oC .Jo11tUlcatioa. New lJnder­
taking: Within five days after the receipt of notice, the sheriff or
defendant may give the plaintifff or his attorney, notice of the justi­
fication of the same, or other bail (specifying the places of residence
and occupation of the latter), before the judge of the court or pro­
bate judge. at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than
five nor more than ten days thereafter, except by consent of parties. 
In case other bail be given there must be a new undertaking. 

Section 3260. Q11alUlca1io118 or Bail: The qualifications
of bail are as fo11ows : 
I. Each of them must he resident and householder or freeholder
within the State; 
. Each must be worth the amount specified in the order of ar­
rest, or the amount to which the order is reduced, as provided in
this Chapter, over and above all his liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; but the judge on justification, may allow
more than two sureties to justify severally in amounts less than that 
expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that
of two sufficient bail. 

Section 8981. Jo•tiftcatiea eC Bail: For the purpose
of justification each of the bail must attend before the judge at the
time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on
oath on the part of the plaintifff touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the judge in his discretion, may think proper. The ex­
amination must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if
required by the plaintifff. 

Section 8989. A.llowance eC Bail: If the judge find
the bail sufficient, he must annex the examination to the undertak­
ing, indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and
the sheriff is thereupon exonerated from liability.

Section 8983. Depo•it oC 1'1oaey with ~herlff: The
defendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit
with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. In case the 
amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter, the de­
fendant may deposit such amount instead of giving bail. In either
case the sheriff must give the defendant a certificate of the deposit 
made, and the defendant must be discharged from custody.

Section 398.S.lf Payment oC 1'1oney Into Court: The
sheriff must, immediately after the deposit, pay the same into court 
and take from the clerk receiving the same, two certificates of such
payment, the one of which he shall deliver to the plaintifff's attorney
and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of
the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited as in other cases of delin­ 
quency. 

Section 398:S. 80,-•tltutla« Ball f"or Depo•it: If money
is deposited, as provided in the last two Sections, bail may be given 
and may justify upon notice, at any time before judgment; and on
the filing of the undertaking and justification with the clerk, the
money deposited must be refunded to the defendant.

Section 3W88. 1'1oaey Depo•ited, how A.pplied: Where
mon.ey bas been deposited, if it remains on deposit at the time of the 
recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintifff, the clerk must, un der the direction of the court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof;
and after satisfying the judgment, refund the surplus, if any to the de­
fendant. If the judgment is in favor of the defendant, the clerk must,
under like direction of the court, refund to him the whole sum deposit­
ed and remaining unapplied. 

Section 3987. Sheriff, When Liable •• Bail: If, after
being arrested, the defendant escape or is rescued, the sheriff is liable
as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability by griv­
ing bail at any time before judgment. 

Section 9~88. Proceedings on .Judgment A1ain11t
Sheriff: If a judgment is recovered against the sheriff upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon is returned unsatisfied in
whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on his official
bond, for the recovery of the whole of any deficiency, as in other
cases of delinquency.

Section 3~89. 1'1otion to ,·acate Order or Reduce
Ball: A defendant arrested may, at any time before the trial of the
action, or if there be no trial, before the entry of judgment, apply 
to the judge of the court in which the action is pending, or to the
court, upon reasonable notice, to vacate the order of arrest or to
reduce the amount of bail. If the application be made upon affi­
davits on the part of the defendant. but not otherwise, the plaintifff
may oppose the same by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to
those on which the order of arrest was made.

Section 3970. When Order Vacated or Bail Re­
duced: Ii. upon application. it appears that there was not suffi­
cient cause for the arrest. the order must be vacated : or if it appears
that the bail was fixed too high. the amount must be reduced. 

Section 3971. When Proceedins• May be Bad: ·The 
plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal property
may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before an­
swer, claim the delivery of such property to him as provided in this Chapter

Section 39'79. A.ffldaYit and it• R e qui•tt .. : Where a
delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the plaintifff, or by
some one in his behalf, setting forth: 
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed ( par­
ticularly describing it), or is entitled to the possession thereof; 
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant:
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof. according to his 
best knowledge. information and belief;
4. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pur­ 
suant to a statute; or seized, under an execution or an attachment
against the property of the plaintifff: or. if so seized, that it is by
statute exempt from such seizure. 
5. The actual value of the property. 

Section 8973. Requl•ition to Sheriff to Ta1'e Prop ..
erty: The plaintifff or his attorney may. thereupon. by an indorse­
ment in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county
where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the de­
fendant. 

Section 3~'74. Security by Plaintiff and SerYice oC
Order: Upon a receipt of the affidavit and notice. with a written
undertaking. executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved
by the sheriff. to the effect that they are bound to the defendant in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the 
prosecution of the action. for the return of the property to the defend­
ant. if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may from any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, 
the sheriff must forthwith take the pro~rty described in the affidavit, 
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it
in his custody. He must, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy
of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to his agent from whose pos­
session the property is taken: or, if neither can be found, by leav­
ing them at the usual place of abode of either, with some person 
. of suitable age and discretion, or, if neither have any known place
of abode, by putting them in the nearest postoffice, directed to the 
defendant.

Section 3275. Exception to Su retie. and Prot9eedinl'"
Thereon: The defendant may, within two days after the service of
a copy of the affidavit and undertaking. give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so he
is deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defend­
ant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in like manner as
upon bail on arrest; and the sheriff is responsible for the sufficiency
of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived or until
they justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot re­
claim the property as provided in the next Section.

Section 3978. Def"endant, When Entitled to Rede­ 
livery: At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff. the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintifff, require the return thereof. upon giving to the sheriff a
written undertaking. executed by two or more sufficient sureties, to
the effect that they are hound in double the value of the property. as
stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff. for the delivery thereof to the
plaintifff. if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him
of such sum as may. for any cause. be recovered against the defend­
ant. If a return of the property be not so required within five days
after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it must be de­
livered to the plaintifff. except as provided in Section 3281.

Section 3277. Justification
of Defendanvs
sureties:
Section 39'77. J111,tiftcation oC Derendant'• ~oretie11: 
The defendant's sureties. upon notice to the plaintifff of not less than
two or more than five days. must justify before the judge of the court
or probate judge. in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and up­
on such justification the sheriff must deliver the property to the de­
fendant. The sheriff is responsible for the defendant's sureties until
they justify. or until the justification is completed or waived, and 
may retain the property unti] that time, If they, or others in their 
place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed. he must deliver
the property to the plaintifff. 

Section 3g7s. QuallflcaCion eC S11retiefJ: The qualifica­
tion of sureties must be such as are prescribed by this Code. in respect
to bail upon an order of arrest. 

Section 39'79. ProperCy Concealed lo Building or
Inclo•ore: If the property, or any part thereof. be concealed in a 
building or enclosure, the sheriff must publicly demand its delivery.
If it be not sdelivered. he must cause the building or enclosure to he
broken open. and take the property into his possession: and. if nec­
essary, he may call to his aid the power of his county. 

Section 3'1SO. Property, How .KepC: Vvhen the sheriff
has taken property. as in this Chapter provided, he must keep it in a
secure place. and deliver it to the party entitled thereto. upon receiv­
ing his fees for taking. and his necessary expenses for keeping. the 
same. 

Section 3~Sl. Ulain1 or Propt-rCy by Third Pf"rson: 
If the property taken he claimed by any other person than the cll'­ 
fenclant or his agent. ancl such person make affidavit nf his tit'e
thereto. or right to the possession thereof. stating the grounds of such title or right. and serve the same upon the sheriff. the sheriff is not
hound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifff unless the
plaintifff. on demand of him or his agent. indemnify the sheriff against
such claim. by an undertaking hy two sufficient sureties. 

Section a~sg. ~oCic~ a1ul Affidavit. Reh1rn of· 
Sheriff: The sheriff must file the notice. undertaking and affidavit. 
with his proceedings thereon. with the clerk of the court in which 
the action is pending. within twcnt v clays after taking the propl'rty
men ti, med therein.

Section 3283. Injunction Deftned. Who 1'1ay 
Grant: An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to re­
frain from a particular act. It may be granted by the court in which
the action is brought, or by a judge thereof, and when made by a
judge, it may be enforced as the order of the court. 

Section 3984. 1'1ay be Grant~d, When: An injunction
may be granted in the following cases: 
. I. When it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled
to the relief demanded, and such relief or any part thereof. consists
in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained
of. either for a limited period or perpetually: 
2. When it appears by the complaint or affidavit that the com­
mission or continuance of some act during the litigation would pro­
duce waste, great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff: 
3. When it appears during the litigation that the defendant is do­
ing, or threatens. or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be
done, some act in violation of the plaintifff's rights. respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual: 
4. When it appears. by affidavit. that the defendant, during the
pendency of the action, threatens. or is about to remove. or to dis­
pose of his property with intent to defraud the plaintifff, an injunc­
tion order may be granted to restrain the removal or disposition: 
5. An injunction may also be granted on the motion of the de­
fendant upon filing a cross complaint. praying for affirmative relief
upon any of the grounds mentioned above in this Section, subject to
the same rules and provisions provided for the issuance of injunctions
or behalf of the plaintifff: 
6. The district courts or any judge thereof sitting in chambers.
in addition to the powers already possessed. shall have power to issrc
writs of injunction for affirmative relief having the force and effect
of a writ of restitution. restoring any person or persons to the posses­
sion of any real property from the actual possession of which he or
they may he ousted by force. or violence, or fraud. or stealth. or any
combination thereof. or from which he or they are kept out of posses­
sion by threats whenever such possession was taken from him or
them by entry of the adverse party on Sunday or a legal holiday, or
in the night time. or while the party in possession was temporarily
absent therefrom. The granting of such writ shall extend only to the
right of possession under the facts of the case. in respect to the man­
ner in which the possession was obtained, leaving the parties to their 
leza 1 rights on a11 other questions the same as though no such writ
had. is~ued ; . [!rovided, That no such writ shall issue except upon
notice m writing to the adverse party of at least five days of the time 
and place of making application therefore.

Section 3~~3. Wbeo Granted, Proc~dure K~q11h•t-d 
•• Obtain: The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing
the summons, upon the complaint, and at any time afterwards, before
judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case. and the
affidavits in the other must show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds 
exist therefore. ~ 1 > injunction can be granted on the complaint uu less it is verified. \Vhen the application is upon notice or order to
show cause, a copy of the moving papers must be served with the
notice or order; when granted without notice a copy of the moving­
papers must he served with the in junction. 

Section 3~88. ln.iuoctieo A.Cter Answer: An injunc­
tion cannot he allowed after the defendant has answered. unless upon
notice. or upon an order to show cause; but in such case the defend­
ant may be restrained until the decision of the court or judge grant­
ing or refusing the injunction. 

Section 3287. Undertaking on Injunction, Justifica­
tion of S11retie•: On granting an injunction, the court or judge
must require. except when the State. a county, or municipal corpora­
tion, or a married woman in a suit against her husband. is a party
plaintifff, a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff. with
sufficient sureties to .he effect that the plaintifff will pay to the party
enjoined such costs. damages and reasonable counsel fees. not ex­
ceeding an amount to he specified. as such party may incur or sus­
tain by reason of the injunction. if the court finally decide that the 
plaintifff \\·as not entitled thereto. \\'ithin five days after the sen ice
of the injunction. the· defendant may except to the sufficiency of the
sureties, If he fails to d1, so he is deemed to have waived all objec­
tions to them. \\'hen excepted to, the plaintifffs sureties, upon no­
tice to the defendant of not less than two or more than five davs, must
justi f y he fore the judge or a pro hate judge. in the same manner as
upon hail on arrest. and upon failure to justify. or if others in their
place fail to ju-ti fy at the time and place appointed. the order g-nnt ·
ing an injunction shall he dissolved. 

Section 39SS. Order to Show ~a11s~: If the court or
judge deem it proper that the defendant. or any of seyeral defendant .-·.
should be heard before granting the injunction. an order may be
made requiring cause to be shown at a specified time and place. why
the injunction should not he granted: and the defendant may, in the 
meantime, be restrained.

Section 3~89. lnj'unction 1o S111~pt-nd Business of a 
Corporation: An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
business of a corporation cannot be granted except by the court or
judge thereof; nor can it be granted without due notice of the app1i­ 
cation therefore to the proper officers or ag-ent of the corporation. e:-, cept when the people of this State are a party to the proceeding. 

Section 3~90. Re•triction• upon Injunction te Be­
•train State Otftcen: Where a duty is imposed by statute upon 
a State officer or officers. an injunction to restrain him or them, or 
a person employed by him or them, from the performance of that
duty, or to prevent the execution of the statute, shall not be granted, 
,, except by the district court, sitting in the couny in which the officer
or officers are located, or the duty is required to be performed; and
upon notice of the application therefore to the officer, or officers, or
other person to be restrained. 

Section 3'191. Motion to "acate Injunction: If an
injunction be granted without notice, the defendant, at any time be­
fore the trial, may apply to the judge who granted the injunction,
or to the court in which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify
the same. The application may be made upon the complaint and
the affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or the answer or
upon affidavit on the part of the defendant, with or without the an­
swer. If the application be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, it must be upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, and
in that case, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by
affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those on which the injunc­ 
tion was granted.

Section 3229. When to be Vacated or Modified: 
If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that there is not
sufficient ground for the injunction, it must be dissolved; or if it sat­
isfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it 
must be modified.

Section 3993. Proceedinl'• upon Hearin&" 01· A.pJdica­
tloo on 1'.lo11on: Upon the hearing of an application for an in­
junction upon notice to the adverse party, or upon return of an order
to show cause why an injunction should not be granted, or upon an
application to dissolve or modify an injunction granted without no­
tice, where the injunction was granted or is applied for wholly or in
part upon affidavits, the party resisting the application or moving to
dissolve the injunction may by three days' written notice require tl.e
adverse party to produce at the hearing for cross examination before
the court or judge, the affiants of the affidavits upon which he relies
for the injunction, or to resist the application for its dissolution; and
any party so requiring his adverse party to produce his witnesses at
such hearing must himself produce for cross examination, the wit­
nesses upon whom he relies upon such hearing; and either party may
have the same process, to secure the attendance of witnesses at such
hearing as upon· trial of issue of fact in the district court ; and in
such case, where the attendance of witnesses shall have been so re ·
quired, no· affidavit shall be read or considered hy the court or judge
upon such hearing unless the affiant is so produced for cross exami­
nation. Provided, That the court or judge may. at the conclusion of
the examination of the witnesses produced by the respective parties,
for good cause shown, adjourn the hearing to enable either party to
secure the attendance of an absent affiant. or may direct his exami­
nation to be taken in writing before such officer and at such time and
place as the court or judge may designate. The examination of any
witness produced before the court or judge must. upon reques. of
either party. be reduced to writing. subscribed hy the affiant. certi
fied by the judge and filed in the action. and with any examination
taken in compliance with the order of the court or judge, be made 
a part of the record upon appeal in the same manner as affidavits are
made a part of such record.

Section 3~94. Attachment, When and in What Uasetf
May 181111~: The plaintifff. at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time afterwards, may have the property of the defendant at­
tached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be
recovered. unless the defendant gave security to pay such judgment.
as in this Chapter provided. in the following cases: 
I. In an action upon a judgment. or upon contract, express or im­
plied. for the direct payment of money. where the contract is not se­
cured by any mortgage or lien upon real or personal property, or
any pledge of personal property: or. if originally so secured. such
security has. without any act of the plaintifff. or the person to whom 
the security w:ts gi,·en. become valueless : 
2. In an action upon a judgment or upon contract. express or im­ 
plied. against a defendant not residing in this State.

Section 399:J. A.ffldaYit t'or A.Uachm~nt, "1llat to
~ontain: The clerk of the court must issue the writ of attach­ 
ment. upon receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of plaintifff. setting
forth: 
I. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff ( specifying the
amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal set-offs or
counterclaims ) and whether upon a judgment or upon a contract.
for the direct payment of money. and that the payment of the same
has not heen secured h/ any mortgage or lien upon real or personal
property, or any pledge of personal property. or. if originally se­
cured. that such security has. without any act of the plaintifff. or the
person to whom the security was given. become valueless : or. 
2. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff ( specifying the
amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal set-offs or
counterclaims ) and t 'rat the defendant is a non-resident of the
State: and 
J. That the attachment is not sought, and the action is not prose­
cuted to hinder. ,le?;•y 1,: .lc fr~md any creditor nf the defendant. 

Section 3~96. 1Jndertaking. No1ice. Uredltor'8 Share
Pro Kata: Before issuing the writ the clerk must require a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff in a sum not Jess than two hun­
dred dollars, and not exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintifff,
with sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment. or, if the attachment he wrongfully issued. the plaintifff
will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all dam­
ages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment not exceed­
ing the sum specified in the undertaking: and two days after issuing
such writ and delivering it to the proper officer the clerk must post
at the front door of the court house and cause to he published in some
newspaper published in the county, if there he one, a notice, setting
out the title of the cause and the fact that an attachment has been
issued against the property of the defendant. Such notice shall be
kept posted at least ten days and shall be published. if a weekly pa­
per. in three issues thereof. and if any other than. a weekly paper,
in at least six issues. Anv creditor of the defendant. who: within
sixty days after the first posting and publication of such notice, shall
commence and prosecute to final judgment his action for his claim
against the defendant shall share pro rata with the attaching creditor
in the proceeds of defendant's property where there is not sufficient 
to pay all the judgments in full against him. 

Section 3~97. Writ, fo Whom Directed and What
to State: The writ must be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which property of such defendant may be, and must require him
to attach and sa fely keep a11 the property of such defendant, within
his county. not exempt from execution or so much thereof as may
he sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand. the amount of which
must be stated in conformity with the complaint. unless the defend­
ant give him security by the undertaking of at least two sufficient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides costs,
or in an amount equal to the value of the property which has been,
or is about to he, attached; in which case. to take such undertaking.
Several writs mav he issued at the same time to the sheriffs nf differen.
counties: and the plaintifff may have other writs of attachment as
often as he may require at any time before judgment. 

Section 3~9S. Sharf's o.f· Stock and Debts Due De­
Cendant, HOii" A.ttached: The rights or shares which the de­
fendant may have in the stock of any corporation or company, to­
gether with the interests and profit thereon and all debts due such
defendant. and all other property in this State of such defendant
not exempt from execution may be attached. and if judgment be
recovered. he sold to satisfy the judgment and execution. 

Section 3'199. How· Kral anti Personal Propert,·
Shall be A.Uadaed: The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered. must execute the same without delay. and if the undertaking
mentioned in Section 3297 be not gi,·en. as follows: 
T. Real property. standing upon the records of the county in the
name of the def eurlant. must he attached. hy filing with the recorder 
< .f the county a copy nf the writ. together with a description of
the property attached. and a notice that it is attached: and by leav­ 
ing a similar copy of the writ. description and notice with an occu­
pant of the property. if there is one, if not. then by posting the same 
111 a conspicuous place on the property attached: 
...?. Real property or an interest therein. helnng·ing to the defend­
ant. and held by any other person. or standing on the records of 
the county in the name of any other person, must be attached, Ly
filing with the recorder of the county a copy of the writ together
with a description of the property, and a notice that such real prop­
erty, and any interest of the defendant therein, held by or standing
in the name of such other person ( naming him), are attached; and
by leaving with the occupant. if any, and with such other person,
or his agent, if known and within the county, or at a residence of
either, if within the county, a copy of the writ, with a similar de ...
scription and notice. If there is no occupant of the property. a copy
of the writ. together with such description and notice, must be posted
in a conspicuous place upon the property. The recorder must index
such attachment when filed, in the names, both of the defendant and
of the person by whom the property is held. or in whose name it
stands on the records ; 
3. Personal property, capable of manual delivery must be at­
tached by taking it into custody: 
4. Stock or shares. or interest in stock or shares, of any corpora­
tion or company, must be attached by leaving with the president, or
other head of the same. or the secretary. cashier, or other managing
agent thereof, a copy of the writ. and a notice stating that the stock
or interest of the defendant is attached. in pursuance of such writ: 
5. Debts and credits. and other personal property, not capable of
manual delivery. must be attached by leaving with the person owing
such debts. or having in his possession. or under his control. such
credits or other personal property. or with his agent. a copy of the writ.
and a notice that the debts owing- by him. to the defendant. or the
credits or other personal property in his possession. or under his con­
trol. belonging to the defendant . are attached in pursuance of such 
writ. 

Section 8300. A.ttorney 1'1ay Glwe Written lnti11r11c­ 
tlon• What to A.Uacb: Upon receiving information in writing
from the plaintifff or his attorney, that any person has in his posses­
sion or under his control, any credits or other personal property be­ 
longing to the defendant, or is owing any debt to the defendant, the
sheriff must serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and a notice
that such credits, or other property or debts. as the case may be. are
attached in pursuance of such writ.

Section 3301. Garnishment, when Garnishee Liable
to Plaintiff: All persons having in their possession or under
their control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the
defendant. at the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ
and notice. as provided in the last two Sections, shall be, unless
such property he delivered up or transferred. or such debts be paid to
the sheriff. liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits,
property. or debts. until the attachment be discharged or any judg­
ment recovered by him be satisfied.

Section 398~. CUatio11 to Garni•hee to Appear Be­
Cere Court: Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having,
in his possession or under his control, any credits or other personal
property belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend· be­
fore the court or judge or a referee appointed by the court or judge
and be examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may 
also be required to attend for the purpose of giving information re­
specting his property and may be examined on oath. The court or
judge may. after such examination. order personal property capable 
of manual delivery to be delivered to the sheriff on such terms as may 
be just. having reference to any liens thereon or claims against the
same. and a memorandum to be given of all other personal property,
containing the amount and description thereof. 

Section 3303. Inventory, 1'1emorandum, ('199t•, when
Re.Coaed: The sheriff must make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to
make such return as to the debts and credits attached, he must re­
quest, at the time of service, the party owing the debt or having the
credit to give him a memorandum, stating the amount and descrip­
tion of each and if such memorandum be refused, he must return the
fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing to give the memo­
randum may be required to pay the cost of any proceedings taken for
the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amounts and
description of such debt or credit. 

Section 1304. Peri•hable Propt"rty, Bow Sold; Ae­ 
coont• to be Collt"c.-ted: If any of the property attached be
perishable, the sheriff must sell the same in the manner in which such
property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other property
attached by him must be retained by him to answer any judgment that
may be recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution
upon another judgment recovered previous to issuing of the attach­
ment. Debts and credits attached may be collected by him if the
same can be done without suit. The sheriff's receipt is a sufficient
discharge for the amount paid. 

Section 330:1. Property A.ttached May be Sold,
When: Whenever property has been taken by an officer under a 
writ of attachment and it is made to appear satisfactory to the court,
or a judge thereof, that the interest of the parties to the action will
be subserved by a sale thereof, the court or judge may order such
property to be sold in the same manner as property is sold under an
execution. and the proceeds to be deposited in the court co abide the 
judgment in the action. Such order can be made only upon notice 
to the adverse party or his attorney, in case such party has been per­
sonally served with a summons in the action. 

Section 3306. Wbea Property ~laimed by Third
Party: If any personal property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the sheriff may summon a jury of six men to
try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be had
thereon, with the like effect as in case of a claim after levy upoo 
execution. 

Section 8:107. If Plalatifr Obtain• Jodgmeat, How
8ati•ffed: If judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the sheriff
must satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has
not been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore
provided or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered
previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that 
purpose; 
1. By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property sold by him or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment; 
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been is­
sued on the judgment. he must sell under the execution so much of
the property, real or personal as may 'be necessary to satisfy the
balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of 
the sale must he given. and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales
on execution. 

Section 3308. fl1hen there Remain• a Balan£e Due,
How Uollected: If, after selling all the property attached by
him remaining in his hands and applying the proceeds together with
the proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his
fees, to the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due,
the sheriff must proceed to collect such balance, as upon an execution
in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the
sheriff, upon reasonable demand. must <leliver over to the defend­
ant the attached property remaining in his hands. and any proceeds
of the property attached unapplied on the judgment. 

Section 3309. When Suit• 1'1ay be Uommenced on
1Jndertaking: If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole
or in part, the plaintifff may prosecute any undertaking given pur­
suant to Section 3297 or Section 3312, or he may proceed as in other
cases upon the return of an execution. 

Section 3310. If' Def'e11daut Recover Judgment,
Sherifr to Deliver Property: If the defendant recover judg­
ment against the plaintifff. any undertaking received in the action,
all the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all
the property attached remaining in the sheriff's hands must be de­
livered to the defendant or his agent. The order of attachment shall
he discharged and the property released threfrom. 

Section 3311. Preceedin,ts te Releat1t-, Detore Whona
Taken: Whenever the defendant has appeared in the action, he 
may, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, apply to the court in
which the action is pending, or to the judge thereof for an order to
discharge the attachment wholly or in part; and upon the execution
of the undertaking mentioned in the next Section, an order may be
made, releasing from the operation of the attachment any or all of
the property attached. and all of the property so released, and all of
the proceeds of the sales thereof must be delivered to the defendan-,
upon the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, if required
by the plaintifff. 

Section 8319. Relea•e From A.t1acbmeot, on Wbat
'l'erm•: Before making such order, the court or judge must require
an undertaking on behalf of the defendant by at least two sureties,
residents, and freeholders, or householders, in the county, to the
effect that in case the plaintifff recover judgment in the action, de­
fendant will, on demand, redeliver the attached property so released
to the proper officer, to be applied to the payment of the judgment,
or, in default thereof, that the defendant and sureties will, on de­
mand, pay to the plaintifff the full value of the property released.
The court or judge making such order may fix the sum for which
the undertaking must ~ executed, and, if necessary in fixing such
sum to know the value of the property released, the same may be
appraised by one or more disinterested persons, to be appointed for·
that purpose. The sureties may be required to justify before the
court or judge, and the property attached cannot be released from
the attachment without their justification if the same be required. 

Section 3313. Motion Cor Di•eharge, When and Bf'·
Core Whom 1'1ade: The defendant may also at any time, either
before· or after the release of the attached property, or before any at­ 
tachment shall have been actually levied, apply on motion upon rea­
sonable notice to the plaintifff. to the court in which the action is
brought, or to the judge thereof. that the writ of attachment be dis­
charged on the ground that the same was improperly or irregularly 
issued.

Section 3314. Motion 1'1ade on A.atdavit 1'1ay be 
Oppoaed by A.tlldavit: If the motion be made upon affidavits
on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may
oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to those
on which the attachment was made. 

Section 3315. When Writ 1'1u•t be Di•chaq~d: If
upon such app1ication. it satisfactorily appears that the writ of at­
tacl -rnent was improperly or irregularly issued. it must be discharged. 

Section 3316. Di•~hargiag Lien Upo• Real E•tate: 
Whenever in any action, real estate has been levied upon under
writs, either of attachment or execution, and the lien of the writ has in
any maner been lost or destroyed, the court out of which the writ is­
sued or the judge thereof, may on application by any person interested
make an order discharging said lien and the order or a certified copy
thereof may be filed in the office of the county recorder in which the
notice of the levy has been filed, and indexed in like manner as said
notice.

Section 8317. When Writ to be Returned: The
sheriff must return the writ of attachment with the summons, if is­
sued at the same time: otherwise within twenty days after its receipt
with a certificate of his proceedings indorsed thereon or attached
thereto; and whenever an order has been made discharging or releas­
ing an attachment upon real property, a certified copy of such order
may be filed in the office of the county recorder in which the notice of
attachment has been filed. and he indexed in like manner. 

Section 3318. A.ppointment of" Reeeit'er: A receiver
may be appointed by the court in which an action is pending or has
passed to judgment, or by the judge thereof: 
I. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his
claim, or between partners or others jointly owning or jointly inter­
ested in any property or fund, or the application of the plaintifff or
of any party whose right to, or interest in the property, or fund, or
the proceeds thereof is probable, and where it is shown that the
property or fund is in danger of being lost. removed or materially 
injured. 
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of· his mort­
gage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the
mortgaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially
injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has not been per­
formed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge 
the mortgage debt ;
3. After judgment to carry the judgment into effect;
4. After judgment to dispose of the property according to the 
judgment or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in
proceedings in aid of execution. when an execution has been returned
unsatisfied, or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his prop­
erty in satisfaction of the judgment; 
5. In the case when a corporation has been dissolved, or is in­
solvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency. or has forfeited its cor­ 
porate rights ; 
6. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been ap­
pointed by the usages of courts of equity. 

Section 8319. A.ppolatmeat of' Re~elverw Upon DI•·
••lotion oCCorperatlon: Upon the dissolution of any corpora­
tion. the district court of the county in which the corporation carries 
( .n its business. or has its principal place of business, on application
of anv creditor of the corporation. or of any member or stockholder
thereof, may appoint one or more persons to be receivers or trus­
tees of the corporation. to take charge of the estate and effects thereof, 
and to collect the debts ancl property due and helnnging to the corpo­
ration. and to pay the outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the
monies an<l other property that shall remain over, among the stock­
holders and members. 

Section 83~0. lnternted Penon Ineligible; tJnder­
takias ex parte A.pplicatlo•: No party, or attorney, or per­
son interested in an action. can be appointed receiver therein, with­
out the written consent of the parties, filed with the clerk. If a re­
ceiver be appointed upon an ex parte application, the court.. before
making the order, may require from the applicant an undertaking,
with sufficient sureties, in an amount to be fixed by the court, to the
effect that the applicant will pay to the defendant all damages he
may sustain by reason of the appointment of such receiver and the
entry by him upon his duties, in case the applicant shall have pro­
cured such appointment wrongfully, maliciously. or without sufficient
cause; and the court may, in its discretion, at any time after said ap­
pointment. require an additional undertaking.

Section 91. Oath and IJndertaking: Before entering
upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faith­
fully, and with one or more sureties, approved by the court or judge,
execute an undertaking, to such person, and in such sum as the court
or judge may direct, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the
duties of receiver in the action. and obey the orders of the court there­ 
in.

Section 99. Power of Receiwf'r•: The receiver has
under the control of the court, power to bring and defend actions in
his own name, as receiver ; to take and keep possession of the prop­
erty, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise
the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such acts respect­
ing the property as the court may authorize. 

Section 3398. lnvn1meat eC Fonds: Funds in the
hands of a receiver may be invested upon interest, by order of t'he
court ; but no such order can be made, except upon the consent of all 
the parties to the action. 

Section 8394. Deposit in Court: When it is admitted by
the pleading, or shown upon the examination of a party, that he has
in his possession, or under his control any money or other thing ca­ 
pable of delivery. which, being the sub!ec~ of litigation, is held by 
him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to an­
other party, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be de­ 
posited in court or delivered to such party, upon such conditions a"
may be just, subject to the further direction of the court. 

Section 33~3. lffoney Paid to Clerk Depo•Ued with
County Trea8urer: If the money is deposited in court it must
be paid to the clerk. who must deposit it with the county treasurer,
bv him to be held subject to the order of the court. For the safe 
keeping of the money deposited with him the treasurer is liable on
his official bond. 

Section 3398. 1'1anner oC EnCorcing Order: When­
ever. in the exercise of its authority. a court has ordered the deposit
or delivery of money. or other thing, and the order is disobeyed,
the court. beside punishing the disobedience. may make an order
requiring the sheriff to take the money. or thing. and deposit. or
deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court. 

Section 33'17. Juriwdiction. Procedure. "Notice to
Pre8ee11ting Attorney: The district courts of the several ju­
dicial districts of this State shall have jurisdiction of actions for di­
vorce under the provisions of Section 2028 of the Civil Code, and
such action shall be brought in the county of this State in which
the plainciff resides. A nd the court in which such action is about to be
commenced shall upon the filing by the plaintifff of a petition duly
verified showing that a cause of action exists under this Chapter.
appoint some person to act as guardian of such insane person in such
action. and the summons and the complaint in such action shall be
served upon the defendant by delivering a copy of such summons and
complaint to such guardian and by delivering a copy thereof to the
prosecuting attorney of the district in which such action is brought. 

Section 3398. Pro•ecutinl' .&.ttorney to .&.ppe•r and
DeCead: It shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney upon
whom the summons and complaint in such action shall be served.
to appear for such defendant in such action and def end the same. and
no divorce shall be granted under the provisions of this Chapter ex­
cept in the presence of the county attorney. 

Section 3399. Alimony, Di•tributlon ot· Propt-rty,
Cu1todJ oC Children: In any action brought under the pro­
visions of this Chapter the said courts and the judges thereof shall
possess all the powers relative to the payment of alimony, the dis­
tribution of property and the care and custody of children of the par­
ties that such courts now have, or may hereafter have in other actions
for divorce. 

Section 3330 Cost, to be Paid by Plaintiff: All the
costs of the court in such action, as well as the actual expenses of
the county attorney therein. together with the expenses and fees of 
the guardian therein. shall be paid by the plaintifff; such expenses
of the county attorney and the expenses and fees of the g·n~nli '.11 
shall be fixed and allowed by the court, and the court. or the judge
thereof, may make such order as to the payment of such fees and
expenses as to the court. or judge, may seem proper.

Section 3331. Proceeding• in Foreclo8ureo Sult•: 
There can be but one action for the recovery of any debt. or the en­
forcement of any right secured by mortgage upon real estate or per­
sonal property, which action must be in accordance with the provis­
ions of this Chapter. In such action the court may, by its judgment.
direct a sale of the incumbered property ( or so much thereof as may be
necessary) and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs of the court and the expenses of the sale, and the
amount due to the plaintifff; and sales of real estate under judgment of
foreclosure of mortgages and liens are subject to redemption as in
the case of sales under execution; and if it appear from the sheriff's
return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a balance still remains
due, judgment can then be docketed for such balance against the de­
fendant or defendants personalty liable for the debt, and it becomes
a lien on the real estate of such judgment debtor. as in other cases on
which execution may be issued. No person holding a conveyance
from or under the mortgagor of the property mortgaged, or having
a lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does not appear. of record
in the proper office at the commencement of the action, need be made
a party to such action ; and the judgment therein rendered, and the
proceedings therein had, are as conclusive against the party holding
such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if he had been made a party to 
the action. 

Section 3339. Surplu• Money to be DepNited in
(}ourt: If there be surplus money remaining, after payment of
the amount due on the mortgage. lien or encumbrance, with costs,
the court may cause the same to be paid to the person entitled to it, 
and in the meantime may direct it to be deposited in court. 

Section 3333. Preceeding• when Debt Necured Fall•
Due at Difrerent Thnet1: l f the debt for which the mortgage,
lien or encumbrance is held is not all due, so soon as sufficient of the
property has been sold to pay the amount due. with costs, the sale
must cease; and afterwards, as often as more becomes due, for prin­
cipal or interest. the court may. on motion. order more to be sold.
But if the property cannot be sold in portions. without injury to the
parties. the whole may be ordered to be sold in the first instance, and
the entire debt and costs paid, there being a rebate of interest where
such rebate is proper. 

Section 88:14. A. Mortl'Al'e 1'1oet not be Deemed a
CoaYeyaoce: A mortgage. of real property shall not be deemed a 
conveyance, whatever its terms, so as to enable the owner of the
mortgage to recover possession of the real property without a fore­
closure and sale.

Section 3335. Lien Cor Work and 1'1nt~rial Fur­
alshed: Every person performing labor upon or furnishing mate­
rials to be used in the construction, alteration or repair of any min­
ing claim, building, wharf, bridge, ditch, dike, flume, tunnel, fence,
machinery, railroad, wagon road, acqueduct to create hydraulic power
or any other structure, or who performs labor in any mine or min­
ing claim, , has a lien upon the same for the work or labor done or
or materials furnished, whether done or furnished at the instance of f 
the owner of the building or other improvement or his agent ; and
every contractor, sub-contractor, architect, builder or any person hav­
ing charge of any mining or of the construction. alteration or repair
either in whole or in part, of any building or other improvement, as
aforesaid shall be held to be the agent of and owner for the purpose
of this Chapter: Provided, That the lessee or lessees of any mining
claim shall not be ~onsidered as the agent or agents of the owner
under the provisions of this Chapter.

Section 3338. Lien on Municipal Building•, Etc.: 
Every sub-contractor, laborer or other person, who performs labor
or furnishes material for any original contractor or sub-contactor,
to be used in the construction, alteration or repair of any building,
machinery or other structure, for any county, city. town or school
district has a lien upon such building, machinery or structure, and
all the provisions of this Chapter respecting the securing and enforce­
in~ of mechanic's lien shall apply thereto thereto, so far as applicable. 

Section 333'7. Lien on Lot Cor C.rading, Filling, Etc.: 
Any person who at the request' of the owner of any lot in any incor­
porated city or town grades, fills in. or otherwise improves the same
or the street in front of or adjoining the same. has a lien upon such
lot for his work done or material furnished. 

Section 3338. What Land or Interest Subject to Lien: 
The land upon which any building. improvement or structure is
constructed, together with a convenient space about the same, or so
much as may be required for the convenient use and occupation there­
of to be determined by the court on rendering judgment, is also sub­
iect to the lien, if, at the commencement of the work or of the fur­
nishing of the material for the same, the land belonged to the person
who caused said building, improvement or structure to be construct­ 
ed, altered or repaired, but if such person owns less than a fee simple 
estate in such land, then only his interest therein ts subject to such
lien.

Section 3339. Mechanic'• Lie•• PreCflrred Claim• ••
Wha1 Extent: The liens provided for in this Chapter are preferred 
to any lien, mortgage or other encumbrance, which may have at­
tached subsequent to the time when the building, improvement or
structure was commenced. work done, or materials were commenced
to be furnished ; also to any lien, mortgage, or other encumbrance,
of which the lien holder had no notice, and was unrecorded at the
time the building, improvement or structure was commenced, work
done. or the materials were commenced to be furnished. 

Section 3340. Claim of Lien, When Filed and What
te Contain: Every original contractor claiming the benefit of this Chapter must, within ninety days, and every other person must,
within sixty days, after the completion of any building, improve­
ment or structure, or after the completion of the alteration or re­
pair thereof, or in case he ceases to ]abor thereon before the comple­
tion thereof, then after he so ceases to labor or after he has ceased
to labor theeron for any cause. or after he has ceased to furnish ma­
terials therefore, or after the performance of any labor in a mine or 
mining claim. filed for record with the county recorder for the
county in which such property or some part thereof is situated a claim
containing a statement of his demand. after deducting all just credits
and offsets. with the name of the owner. or reputed owner, if known,
;!nd also the name of the person by whom he was employed or to
whom he furnished the materials. and also a description of the proper­ 
ty to ~ ,c charged with the lien, sufficient for identification, which 
claim n-ust be verified by the oath of the claimant, his agent or at­
torney to the effect that the affiant believes the same to be just. 

Section 3341. Claims Against Two or More Build
Ing•, What to Dnipate, Effect of9: In every case in which 
one claim is filed against two or more buildings, mines, mining
claims, or other improvements, owned by the same person, the per­
son filing such claim must at the same time designate the amount
due him on each of said buildings, mines, mining claims, or other
improvement, otherwise the lien of such claim is postponed to other
liens. The lien of such claim does not extend beyond the amount
designated as against other creditors having liens by judgment, mort­
gage, or otherwise, upon either of such buildings, or other improve­
ments, or upon the land upon which the same are situated. 

Section 334g. Length of" Time Property Bound by 
Lien: No lien provided for in this Chapter binds any building.
mining claim, improvement or structure for a longer period than six
months after the claim has been filed. unless proceedings be com­
menced in a proper court within that time to enforce such lien; or.
if a credit be given. then six months after the expiration of such
credit; but no lien shall continue in force under this Chapter for a
longer period than two years from the time the work is completed, or
credit given, unless proceedings to enforce the same shall have been
commenced. 

Section 334:1. Contracton 1'1ay Re.-o-Yer What.
Rlghtw et'Owner and Contractor: The original or sub-con­
tractor shall be entitled to recover upon the claim filed by him only
such amount as may be due to him according to the terms of llis
contract, after deducting all claims of other parties for work done
and materials furnished to him as aforesaid. of which claim of lien
rhall have been filed as required by this Chapter. and in all cases where
a claim shall be filed under this Chapter for work done or materials 
irrnished to any sub-contractor, he shall defend any action brought 
tnereupon ,:t his own expense; and during the pendency of such ac­
tion, the person indebted to the contractor may withhold from such
contractor the amount of money for which claim is filed; and in case
of judgment UJ).Pn the Hen, the person indebted in the contract shall
be entitled to deduct from any amount due or to become due by him
t\ such contractor, the arnc unt of such judgment and costs and if the
amount of such judgment and costs shall exceed the amoupt due from
him to such contractor. if the person indebted in the contract shall
have settled with such contractor in full, he shall be entitled to re­
cover back from &Hd1 contractor any amount so paid by him in excess
of the contract price and for which such contractor was originally 
the party liable.

Section 9944. .Judgment to Dt-clare Priority: In 
every case in which different liens are asserted against any property,
the court in the judgment must declare the rank of each lien or class
of liens which shall be in the fo11owing order : 
First. All laborers, other than contractors or sub-contractors.
Second. All material men. other than contractors or sub-contrac­ 
tors.
Third.· Sub-contractors.
Fourth. The original contractor. 

Section 394:5. Proceeds of" Sale, How A.pplit"d: In 
case the proceeds of sale under this Chapter shall be insufficient to
pay all lienholders under it; 
First. The lien of all laborers. other than the original contractor
and sub-contractor. shall first be paid in full. or pro rata, if the pro­
ceeds be insufficient to pay them in full. 
Second. The lien of material men, other than the original con­
tractor or sub-contractor. shall be paid in full. or pro rata, tf the pro­ 
ceeds be insufficient to pay them in fuil.
Third. .\nd out of the remainder. if anv, the sub-contractors 
shall be paid in full or pro rata. if the remainder be insufficient to pav 
them in full. and the remainder if any. shall he paid to the original
contractor: and each claimant shall be entitled to execution for any
balance due him after such distribution such execution to he issued
hv the clerk of the court upon demand. at the return of the sheriff o .. 
other officer making the. sale. showing such balance due.

Section 9346. Jlatt-rial8 F11rni•hed. Exemption or..
Crom A.ttachment or Exec11tion: Whenever materials sha11
have been furnished for use, in the construction. alteration or repair
of any buildings, or other improvem~nt. such materials shall not be 
subject to attachment, execution or other legal process, to enforce
any debt due by the purchaser of such materials, except a debt due
for the purchase money thereof so long as in good faith the same are
being applied to the construction, alteration, or repair of such build­
ing, mining claim, or other improvement. 

Section 334'7. Lien upon Saw-Legs, Etc., Cor 8erw-icf't1:
Every person performing labor upon, or who shall assist in obtain­ 
ing or securing saw-logs, spars, piles, cord wood. or other timber.
has a lien upon the same for the work or labor done upon or in obtain­
ing or securing the same, whether such work or labor was done at
the instance of the owner of the same or his agent. The cook shall
be regarded· as a person who assists in obtaining or securing the
timber herein mentioned. 

Section 3348. Lien upon Saw Lo«w 1'1ano,adur~d
into Lon1be-r: Every person performing labor upon or who shall
assist in manufacturing saw-logs into lumber has a lien upon such
lumber while the same remains at the mill where manufactured.
whether such work or labor was done at the instance of the owner of
such logs or his agents.

Section 33'99. Lien f"or Porcha~ Price 11pon Log•"
Etc., Cut 011 One'• Land: Any person who shall permit another
to go upon his timber land and cut thereon. saw-logs, spars. piles.
cordwood. or other timber has a lien upon such logs. spars. piles.
cord wood and timber for the price agreed to be paid for such privi­
lege or for the price such privilege would be reasonably worth in case
there was no express agreement fixing the price. 

Section 33:10. Prr.Cerred l,ien•, not DiYeAted by Sal~ 
or Tranwler: The liens provided for in this Chapter are prior to
any other liens. and no sale or transfer of any saw-logs. spars. piles.
cord wood or other timber or manufactured lumber shall divest the
lien thereon as herein provided. and such lien shall follow such prop­
erty into any county in this State into which the same may be re­ 
moved: Provided, Notice of such lien shall have heen filed in such
county.

Section 33:11. Time Dorin~ w·hich l,ienor it1 En1if l~d
to Lien: The T,erson rendering the service or doing the work or la­ 
bor named in Sections 3335 and 3336 of this Chapter is only entitled
to the liens as provided herein for services. work or labor. for the pe­ 
riod of eight calendar months. next oreceding the filing of the claim,
as provided in Section 3353 of this Chapter. 

Section 3339. Time During which One Granted
PriTilege i• Entitled to Lien: The person granting the priv­
ilege mentioned in Section 3349 of this Chapter is entitled to the lien
as provided therein for saw-logs, spars, piles, cord wood and other
timber cut during the eight months next preceding the filing of the
claim, as provided in the next succeeding Section of this Chapter. 

Section 3333. Verified Claim to ~ Filed: Every per­
son within sixty days after the close of the rendition of the services.
or after the close of the work or labor mentioned in Sections 3347 and 
3348 of this Chapter, claiming the benefit hereof, must file for record
with the county recorder of the county in which such saw logs. spars, 
piles, cord wood or other timber was cut, or in which such lumber
was manufactured, or if removed to another county then in such coun­
ty. a notice of claim containing a statement of his demand, and the
amount thereof. after deducting as near as possible, all just credits
and off sets. with the name of the person by whom he was employed. 

Section 333t:. Requirement• and Ferm of" State­
naent: The notice of claim shall state what such service, work or
labor is reasonably worth : and it shall also contain a description of
the property to be charged with the lien. sufficient for identification
with reasonable certainty. which notice of claim must he verified by
the oath of himself, his agent or attorney. to the effect that the affiant
believes the same to be true, and such notice of claim shall be sub­
stantially in the following form : 
.................. claimant, vs. . .
Notice is hereby given that. . . . . . . . . . . . of. . . . . . . . county, State 
.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
.
. . .claimant, vs.
. . . .
. . . .
. .
.
. . .
.
. . . . . .
. . .
Notice
is
hereby‘
given
that . .
. . . .
. .
.
.
.. of
. . . . . . ..
county,
State
of
Idaho,
claims a
lien
upon
a
. . . .
. . . .
. .
. .
.
.of .
.
. . . . . . . .
..being
of Idaho, claims a lien upon a of being
about in quantity. which were cut in .
county. State of J daho, are marked thus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and are
now Tying in for labor performed upon and assistance
rendered in said : that the name of the 
about
.
.
.
. . . . . .
.
.
.
.
.in
quantity.
which were cut
in . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .
county.
State
of
Idaho,
are
marked thus
. . . . . . . . . . .
. . .
..
and
are
now
lying
in .
. . . . .
.
. . . . . .for labor
performed
upon
and assistance
rendered in
.
.
. .
.
. . .
.
. . . .
.said . . .
.
.
. .
.
. . . . .
;
that the name
of
the
owner
or
reputed
owner
is
.
. . . . . . . . . . ..
:
that
. .
.
. . . . . . .
.
. ..em
owner or reputed owner is : that em- 
ployed said to perform such labor and render such
assistance upon the following terms. to-wit: The said .
agreed to pay the said for such labor and assistance
.............. : that said contract has been faithfully performed and
fully complied with on the part of said who performed
labor upon and assisted in said for the
period of that said labor and assistance were so performed and rendered upon said between the . 
ployed
said . .
.
. . . . . . . .
.
. .
. .to
perform
such labor
and render such
assistance
upon
the
following
terms.
to-wit: The
said
. . .
.
. . . .
. . . .
agreed
to
pay
the said .
. . .
. . . . .
.
.
.
..for such
labor
and
assistance
.
.
.
. . .
. .
.
.
. . . .
:
that
said contract
has
been
faithfully
performed
and
fully
complied
with
on the
part
of said . .
. . . . . . . . .
..
who
performed
labor
upon
and assisted
in . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..said
. . . . .
.
.
. .
..for
the
period
of . .
.
.
. . . . . . . . . . .
.that said
labor and assistance
were
so
per
formed and rendered
upon
said
. . .
. . . . . . .
. ..between
the . .
. . . . ..
. . .
.
. . . . .
..day
of............and
the.................day
of
. . . . . . . . . . . day of and the day of
.............. and the rendition of said services was closed on the
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . dav of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and . . . . . . . . . . days
have not elapsed since that time that the the amount of claimant's demand for said services is : that no part thereof has been 
. .
. . . . . . . . . .
..and
the rendition
of said
services was closed
on the
. . . .
. . .
.
. . . . . .
..
day
of
and
days
have
not
elapsed
since
that
time that
the the
amount
of claimant’s
de
mand
for said services
is
. . . . . .
. . ..
:
that
no
part
thereof
has
been
paid except. , , , , . , , , .. and there ~s !low due and unpaid 
thereon, after deducting all just credits and offsets, the sum of .
in which amount he claims a lien upon said . 
thereon,
after
deducting
State of Idaho l 
.......... County. j ss .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , being first duly sworn, on oath says that he is 
................ named in the foregoing claim, has heard the same
read and knows the contents thereof, and believes the same to be 
true .
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of 
...........•. , 18 .•.. 

Section 3833. Penon Claiming Lien Cor Purcha•e
Price lfluttt File Claim: Every person mentioned in Section
3349 of this Chapter, claiming the benefit hereof, must, within ninety
days after such cutting file for record with the county recorder of the
county in which such saw-logs, spars, piles, cord wood, or other
timber was cut, a claim in substance, the same as provided in the last
two preceding Sections of this Chapter and verified as therein pro­ 
vided.

Section 8338. Length oC Time Lien Bind• Pro~rty: 
No lien provided for in this Chapter binds any saw-logs, spars, piles,
cord wood or other timber, or any lumber for a longer period than
six calender months after the claim as herein provided has been filed,
unless a civil action be commenced in a proper court within that time
co enforce the same.

Section 83:17. Lien May be EnCorced Apia•• Part or
Whole oC Property: Any person who shall bring a civil action
to enforce the lien as herein provided for, or any person having a
lien as herein provided for, who shall be made a party to any such civil
action has a right to demand that such lien be. enforced against
the whole or any part of the saw logs, spars, piles, cord wood or other
timber or manufactured lumber, upon which he has performed labor
or which he has assisted in obtaining or securing, or which has been
cut on his timber land during the eight months mentioned in Sections 
335 I and 3352 of this Chapter, for all his labor upon, or for all his
assistance in obtaining or securing said logs, spars, piles, cord wood 
or other timber, or in manufacturing said lumber during the whole
or any part of the eight months mentioned in Section 3351 of this Chapter, or for timber cut during the whole or any part of the eight
months mentioned in Section 3352 of this Chapter. 

Section 3338. Judg1oents in Lien Ca8eN, En.forc~­ 
meot or: In such civil action judgments must be rendered in
favor of each person having a lien for the amount due to him, and 
the court or judge thereof shall order any property subject to the
lien herein provided for to be sold by the sheriff of the proper county
in the same manner that the personal property is sold on execution,
and the court or judge shall apportion the proceeds of such sale for the
payment of each judgment pro rata, according to the amount of such
judgment.

Section 3339. Penonal Properly May be Sold to
Sati•Cy Lien, When: The court or judge may order any prop­
erty subject to a lien as in this Subdivision provided to be sold by the
sheriff as personal property is sold on execution, either before or at
the time judgment is rendered as provided in the Section next pre­
ceding, and the proceeds of such sale must be paid into court to be 
applied as in such Section directed.

Section 3380. Liability Cor InterCereoce with Prop­
erty Subject to Lien: Any person who shall injure, impair,
or destroy, or who shall render difficult, uncertain or impossible of 
identification, any saw-logs, spars, piles, cord wood, or other timber,
upon which there is a lien as herein provided without the express
consent of the person entitled to such lien, shall be liable to the lien
holder for the damages to the amount secured by his lien, which may
be recovered by civil action against such person. 

Section 3381. Farm Laborer•' Lien•: Priority: Any 
person who does any labor on a farm or land in tilling the same, or
in cultivating, harvesting, or housing any crop or crops raised there­
on has a lien on all such crop or crops for such labor, and such lien
shall be a preferred and prior lien thereon to any crop or chattel mort­
gage placed thereon, and all chattel or crop mortgages of any crop or
crops, upon which any person shall perform labor in cultivating, har­
vesting, or housing the said crop, shall take such mortgage subject to,
and said mortgage shall be a subsequent lien to that of the person or
persons performing such labor as to a reasonable compensation for 
such labor.

Section 338~. LeHor'• lntere•t in Crop Excepted:
The interest in any crop of any lessor or lessors of land where the
premises are leased in consideration of a share of the crop raised
thereon is not subject to such lien.

Section 3383. Claim to be Verified and Filed. How
Enforced: Any person claiming the benefit of Section 336r, must
within sixty days after the close of said work or labor filed for rec- 
ord with the county recorder of the county in which said work or
labor was performed, a claim which shall be in substance in accord­
ance with the provisions of Section 3353 of this Chapter, so far as
the same may be applicable, which said claim shall be verified, as pro­
vided in Section 3354, and said liens may be enforced in civil action,
in the same manner, as near as may be, as provided in Section 3366
of this Chapter. 

Section 3884. CJounty Recorder to keep Record oC
Lien•: The county recorder must record any claim filed under this Chapter in a book kept by him for that purpose, which record must 
be indexed as deeds and other conveyances are required by law to be
indexed and for which he may receive the same fees as are allowed
by law for recording deeds or other instruments. 

Section 3383. CJlahnant• may Join in Action. Con­
solidation. CJo8tw: Any number of persons claiming liens against
the same property may join in the same action, and when separate
actions are commenced, the court may consolidate them. The court
shall also allow as part of the costs the monies paid for filing and
recording the claim, and reasonable attorney's fees.

Section 3988. LieD8 may be EoCorced by Ch'il A.e­ 
tion, bow: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the 
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of Idaho re- 
lating to civil actions, new trials and appeals are applicable to, and
constitute the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter; Provided, That the district courts of this State shall have 
jurisdiction of all actions brought under this Chapter. 

Section 3387. Risht or A.ction to Recover Debt not
Impaired: Nothing- contained in this Chapter shall be construed
to impair or affect the right of any person to whom any debt may be
due for work done or materials furnished to maintain a personal
action to recover such debt against the person liable therefore. 

Section 3388. PreCerred Creditors on A..ssisnmeot•: 
In all assignments of property made by any person to trustees or as­
signees, or in proceedings in insolvency, the wages of the miners,
mechanics, salesman, servants, clerks or laborers for services ren­
dered within sixty days next preceding such assignment not exceed­
ing one hundred and fifty dollars are preferred claims, and must be
paid by such trustees or assignees before any creditor or creditors of
the assignor or insolvent debtor: Provided, That whenever any such
miner, mechanic, salesman, servant, clerk or laborer has filed a notice
of lien against any property of the assignor, he may elect between the 
provisions of this Seeton and his lien. 

Section 8389. Pret'erred Credlten A.1alnst E11tate:
In case of the death of any employer the wages of each miner,
mechanic, salesman, clerk, servant and laborer for services rendered
within the sixty days next preceding the death of the employer not
exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars, rank in priority next after
the funeral expenses ; expenses of the last sickness, the charges and
expenses of administering upon the estate, and the allowance to the
widow and infant children, and must be paid before any other claims
against the estate of the deceased person.

Section 3370. Prererred Crediten in t:Ja•e.oi· Exe~u­
tion and Attachment: In cases of executions, attachments
and writs of similar nature issued against any person or his property,
except for claims for labor done, any miners, mechanics, salesmen,
servants, clerks or laborers who have claims against the defendant
for labor done upon the property levied on may give notice of their
claim and the amount thereof, sworn to by the person making the
claim, to the creditor or his agent or attorney and the officer execut­
ing any of such writs, at any time before the actual sale of the prop­
erty levied upon; and, unless such claim is disputed by the debtor
or creditor, such officer must pay to such person out of the proceeds
of the sale of any property on which such person has bestowed labor
the amount he is entitled to receive for his services rendered within 
the sixty days next preceding the levy of the writ. 

Section 887'1. Di11puted Claim•, Procedure 1Jpon: 
If any, or all other claims so presented and claiming preference under
the preceding Section are disputed by either the debtor or a creditor,
the person presenting the same must commence an action within ten
days for the recovery thereof and must prosecute his action with due
diligence or be forever barred from any claim of priority of payment
thereof; and the officer shall retain possession of so much of the pro­
ceeds of the sale as may be necessary to satisfy such claim until the
determination of such action; and in case judgment be had for the
claim· or any part thereof carrying costs the costs taxable therein shall
likewise be a preferred claim with the same rank as the original claim. 

Section 337'9. Det,tor or (JredUor fo File Stafemenl: 
The debtor or creditor intending to dispute a claim presented under
the provisions of the last Section shall within ten days after receiving
notice of such claim, serve upon the claimant and the officer execut­
ing the writ. a statement in writing verified by the oath of the debtor
or the person disputing such claim, or his agent or attorney, setting
forth that no part of said claim or not exceeding a sum specified is
justly due from the debtor to the claimant for services rendered with­
in the sixty days next preceding the levy of the writ. If the claim­
ant brings suit on a claim which is disputed in part only, and fail to 
recover a sum exceeding that which was admitted to be due, he shall
not recover costs, but costs shall be adjudged against him.

Section 9373. Nuisance Defined and Actions Cor: 
Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a
nuisance and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought
by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose per­
sonal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment
the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages recovered. 

Section 3374. Wawte, A.ctioat1 Cor: If a guardian, ten­
ant for life or years, joint tenant or tenant in common of real prop­ 
erty, commit waste thereon, any person aggrieved by the waste may
bring an action against him therefore. in which action there may be
judgment for treble damages. 

Section 3373. Trewpa8w f~r Cutting Tret-t1, ete., A.c­
tioow ,or: Any person who cuts down or carries off any wood or
underwood. tree, or timber, or girdles, or otherwise injures any tree
or timber on the land of another person. or on the street or highway
in front of any person's house. village, or city lot, or cultivated
grounds; or on the commons or public grounds of or in any city or
town, or on the street or highway in front thereof. without lawful
authority, is liable to the owner of such land. or to such city or town,
for treble the amount of damages which may be assessed therefore. in
a civil action, in any court having jurisdiction. 

Section 3376. ExeeptionM in Uertain Ua•e• under
the La•1 8ection: Nothing in the last Section authorizes the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from uncul­
tivated woodland for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon the 
land, or adjoining it. 

Section 3377. Damage. ror Forcible Ea try, ete., 
may be Trebled: If a person recover damages for a forcible or
unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of any building or any culti­
vated real property, judgment may be entered for three times the
amount at which the actual damages are assessed. 

Section 337S. Action• Cor Injury by Per••n• Un­
law.Cully Brou,;ht into the State: Any person, officer, com­ 
pany, association or corporation who shall knowingly bring, or cause
to be brought, or aid in bringing, into this State any armed or un~ 
armed police force, detective agency or force, or armed or unarmed
body of men for the suppression of domestic violence shall be liable
in a civil action to any person for any injury to. person or property
through the action or as the result of the coming or bringing into
the State of such body of men, or any of them, whether acting to­
gether or separately in carrying out the purpose for which they were
brought or came into the State. 

Section 3379. ParticN to an A.ctioa to Quid 'l"itl~:
An action may be brought by any person against another who claims 
an estate ?r interest in real pro.Perty adverse to him, for the purpose
of determmmg such adverse claim. 

Section 3380. When Plaintiff Cannot Reeow-er U•t•: 
If the defendant in such action disclaim in his answer any interest
or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against
him without answer, the plaintifff cannot recover costs. 

Section 3381. Proceeding• where PlaintiW'• Tith•
'rerminatn Pending Suit: In an action for the recovery of
real property. where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time
the action was commenced, .hut it appears that his right has termi­
nated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment
must be according to the fact and the plaintifff may recover damages 
for withholding the property. 

Section 3389. Whe• Value of Improvements ean 
be Set-ofr: When damages are claimed for withholding the prop­
erty recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been made
by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color
of title adversely to the claim of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value
of such improvements must be allowed as a set-off against such dam­ 
ages. 

Section 3883. Order for ~urvey and lo•pection of·
Pre-mises in Di•po1e: Any person having a bona fide claim to
the possession. title of, or interest in any real property or mining claim.
including any ledges thereof. which is, or which he has good reason 
to believe, is in the possession of another, either by surface or under­
ground holdings or workings, and it is necessary for the ascertain­
ment, enforcement or protection of such rights or interests, that an ex­
amination or survey of such property be had, and the person in the pos­
session thereof, fails or refuses for three days after demand on him
made in writing, to permit such examination or survey to be made, the
party desiring the same may apply to the court or the judge thereof,
whether he have an action concerning such property, pending in such
court or not, for an order for such examination and survey. 
to
believe,
is in
the
possession
of
another,
either
by
surface or
under
ground
holdings
or
workings,
and it is
necessary
for the ascertain
ment,
enforcement
or
protection
of such
rights
or interests,
that an ex
amination
or
survey
of such
property
be
had,
and the
person
in
the
pos
session
thereof,
fails or
refuses
for three
made
in
writing,
to
permit
such
examination
or
days
after
demand on him
survey
to be
made,
the
party desiring
the same
may
apply
to
the court or the
judge
thereof,
whether he
have an action
concerning
such
property, pending
in
such
court or
not,
for
an
order for
such examination
and
survey.
Such
application must be
made
upon
a
written
petition
or statement
Such application must be made upon a written petition or statement
under oath, setting out a description of the property, interest of the
party therein, that the premises are in the possession of a party, nam­
ing him, the reason why such survey or examination is asked, the de­
mand made for same, and refusal thereof. 

The court or judge must appoint a time and place for hearing, of
which notice, with a copy of the petition, must be served upon the
adverse party, at least three days before the hearing and one addi­
tional day for each twenty-five miles between the place of service of
notice and the hearing, and such hearing must be had and the testi­
mony must be produced in the same manner as provided by Section
3293 for hearings on injunctions. 

If upon such hearing the court or judge is satisfied either party is
entitled to any relief or order, for examination or survey of any prop­
erty in the possession of the other, which has by the papers in the
proceedings been put in controversy an order must be granted for such
examination, survey and other privileges as the 'court or judge may
deem just and the order must specify as nearly as possible what the
person in whose favor such order is granted, may do. 
That thereupon, such person may have free access, with such agents
and assistants as may be allowed, to all parts of such property, with
right to remove any loose rock, debris or other obstacle, when the
same is necessary to the making of a full inspection or survey of such
property, but no such removal must be made without the consent of
the adverse party or the order of the court or judge permitting the
same. 
The court or judge may also upon proper showing, with the view
of producing such evidence as may be needed to determine the rights
of the parties, allow work to be done on such property, but any work
so permitted must be allowed only after the same is particularly de­
fined and must not be allowed in such manner as to interfere with
the workings of the adverse party, and then only when the court is
satisfied the adverse party is acting in bad faith and is infringing or at­
tempting so to do, upon the rights of the party asking to do such work,
and when there is no other reasonable or convenient mode for the pro­
duction of the evidence necessary to settle the rights of the parties. 
The party so asking to do work upon the premises of, or in the
possession of another, must give good and sufficient security for the
payment of all damages he may do the adverse party by reason of
such work and the court or judge must at every stage of the proceed­
ings have due regard for the rights of all parties in interest. 

Section 338,. Order. 8erYice. Liability Cor 1Jn­
aecet1nry Injury: The order must describe the property, and
a copy thereof must be served on the owner or occupant; and there­
upon such party may enter upon the property, with necessary surveyors
and assistants, and make such survey and measurement but if any
unnecessary injury be done to the property, he is liable therefore. 

Section 3383. Injunction Doring ForeclNure, .&Rer
Sale on Eiecutioa: The court may, by injunction, on good
cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing any act to
the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage
thereon; or, after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

Section 3388. Damage. .ror Injury to the Po••n•ion
after 8ale: When real property has been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof, or any person who may have succeeded to his
interest, or any redemptioner, may, after his estate becomes absolute,
recover damages for injury to the property by the tenant in possession
after sale, and before possession is delivered under the conveyance. 

Section 3387'. .&lieaatlon Peadinl' 8ull, .&.ction not
Prejudiced: An action for the recovery of real property against a
person in possession cannot be prejudiced by any alienation made by 
such person, either before or after the commencement of the action. 

Section 3388. 1'1iaing Claim•, A.etions Con~erning,
Local Ruin: In actions respecting mining claims, proof must
be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established and in
force at the bar or diggings embracing such claim and such cus­
toms. usages, or regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of this
State, must govern the decision of the action.

Section 33S9. Settlement Required, !!!ieTeral Pro­
Yi•len•: Any person being a citizen of the United States, or hav­ 
ing in accordance with law declared his intention to become a citizen,
occupying and settled upon, any of the public lands of the United
States in this State, for the purpose of cultivating or grazing the same"
may commence and maintain any action for interference with, or injurj
to his po=session of such land against any person interfering with or
injuring the same; but if such land contains mines of any of the pre­
cious metals,· the possession or claim of the person occupying the same
for the purposes aforesaid must not prevent the working of such
mines or persons desiring to work the same, as fully as if no such claim
for agricultural or grazing purposes had been made thereon: Provided, 
That this Chapter must not be so construed as to allow a person, subse­
quent to the location of land for agricultural or grazing purposes, to go
upon such lands for the purpose of mining without first paying the
owner thereof the value of any growing crops they may destroy; this
provision does not extend to any crops planted subsequent to their lo­
cation for mining purposes ; and this Chapter must not be construed to
authorize the maintenance of any claim upon lands which at the com­
mencement of any such action, may have been selected by the United
States, and reserved for any purpose. 

Section 3390. ~laim, what to Contain: Every claim,
to enable the holder to maintain any action as aforesaid, must con­
tain not more than one hundred and sixty acres of land, to be in a
compact form. and so distinctlv marked that the boundaries thereof 
may be easily traced. 

Section 3391. Claim, how De8~ribefl, Reeordinl( oC: 
Every such claim must be accurately described in a written notice.
which must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county
wherein the claim is situated, in a book to be kept for the purpose, to­
gether with an affidavit of the claimant setting forth : 
First. That such claim does not embrace more than one hundred
and sixty acres of land; 
Second. That he holds no other claim under the provisions of this Chapter; 
Third. That to the best of his information and belief, no part of
said land is claimed under any existing adverse title. 

Section 339g. 1'lu8t lmpreYe, Time: Within ninety days
after the date of such record, said claimant must improve the land so 
recorded, unless the same has been previously improved by him, or
some one through w horn he claims, by putting such improvements
thereon as partake of the realty to the value of two hundred dollars,
and ivust continue to occupy and cultivate or graze the same or some
portion thereof, either in person or by his agent or employe, and no 
person is entitled to maintain any such action unless he has complied
with all the provisions of this Chapter. 

Section 3393. A.ction f'or P••n•ion, Plaintifr what
te Pro1'e: In any action for the possession of, or for any injury
done to a lot or parcel of land, situated in any city, town, or village
on the public lands, the plaintifff must be required to prove either an
actual enclosure of the whole lot claimed by him, or the erection of a
dwelling house or other substantial building, on some part thereof,
by himself or some person through whom he claims, and proof of
such building, with or without enclosure, is sufficient to hold such
lot or parcel to the bounds thereof, as indicated by the plat of such
city, town, or village, if there be one, and if there be no such plat,
then to hold the same, with its full width and extent from and in ..
eluding such building to the nearest adjacent street, where the interven­
ing space has not been previously claimed by adverse possession

Section 939.S. Who ••Y Bri•I' A.ction• Cor Partition:
-Vhen several co-tenants hold and are in possession of real prop- 
ty as parceners, joint tenants or tenants in common, in which one
or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, 
c r for years, an action may be brought by one or more of such persons
for a partition thereof. according to the respective rights of the per­
sors interested therein, and for a sale of such property, or a part 
thereof, if it appears that a partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners. 

Section 339:1. Inter~••• ot all PartieN mu•t be !kt 
Forth ia Uomplaint: The interests of all persons in the prop­
erty, whether such persons be known or unknown, must be set forth
in the complaint specifically and particularly, as far as known to the
plamtiff : and if one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity
of interest of any one of the parties, be unknown to the plaintifff, or
be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance de­
pend upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent re­
minder, so that such parties cannot be named, that fact must be set forth
in the complaint. 

Section 3398. Lienholderw not or Record need not 
be made Partlew: No person having a conveyance of or claiming
a lien on the property. or of some part of it. need be made a party
to the action. unless such conveyance or 1ien appear of record. 

Section 1197'. Plaintiff nau8t File Notice or llt1
Pf"ndent1: Immediately after filing the complaint in the destrict
court. the plaintifff must file with the recorder of the county, or of
the several counties in which the property is situated. either a copy
of such complaint or a notice of the pendency of the action. contain­
ing the names of the parties so far as known. the object of the action,
and a description of the property to be affected thereby. From the time
of the filing it shall be deemed notice to a11 persons. 

Section 3398. Summon• 1nu8t be dlreded to •II 
Person• Intereeted: The summons must be directed to all the
joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons having any in­
terest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise
upon the property, or upon any particular portion thereof and gener­
ally, to all persons unknown. who have or claim any interest in the
property. 

Section 3399. tlnkoow·n Partie• may be Served by 
Publicatien: If a party having a share or interest is unknown.
or any one of the known parties reside out of the State, or can­
not be found therein, and such fact is made to appear by affidavit,
the summons may be served on such absent or unknown party by pub­
lication , as in other cases. When publication is made, the summons,
as published, must be accompanied by a brief description of the prop­
erty which is the subject of the action. 

Section 3488. A.n11wer o, De.Cendantw, what to Coa­
taln: The defendants who have been personally served with the
summons and a copy of the complaint, or who have appeared without
such service, must set forth in their answers, fully and particularly,
the origin, nature, and extent of their respective interest in the property,
and if such defendants claim a lien on the property by mortgage, judg­
ment or otherwise, they must state the original amount and date of the
same, and the sum remaining due thereon; also whether the same has
been secured in any other way or not; and if secured, the nature and ex­
tent of such security. or they are deemed to have waived their right to
such lien.

Section 3-1:01. Right• or all Parties must be &•cer­
taioed: The rights of the several parties, plaintifff as well as de­ 
fendant, mav be put in issue, tried and determined in such action; .and
when a sale of the premises is necessary, the title must be ascertamed 
by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the judgment of sale
can be made; and where service of the complamt has been made by pub­
lication, like proof must be required of the right of the absent or
unknown parties before such judgment is rendered except that where
there are several unknown persons having an interest in the property,
their rights may be considered together in the action. and not as be­ 
tween themselves

Section 1489. Partial Partition: Whenever from any
cause it is, in the opinion of the court, impracticable or highly inconven. ient to make a complete partition in the first instance, among all the
parties in interest, the court may first ascertain and determine the
shares or interest respectively held by the original co-tenants, and
thereupon adjudge and cause a partition to be made as if such original
co-tenants were the parties, and sole parties, in interest, and the only
parties to the action, and thereafter may proceed in like manner to ad­
judge and make partition separately of each share or portion so ascer­
tained and allotted, as between those claiming under the original
tenant to whom the same shall have been so set apart, or may allow
them to remain tenants in common thereof as they may desire. 

Section 1483. Court may Order Salt! or Partition
and Appoint ReCeree• thereCor: If it be alleged in the com­
plaint and established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence with­
out such a11egation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the court.
that the property, or any part of it, is so situated that partition cannot
he made without great prejudice to the owners. the court may order a
sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it must
order a partition. according to the respective rights of the parties, as
ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees therefore; and
must designate the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose
interests remain unknown or are not ascertained. 

Section 3404. Court, by Consent may Appoint a
~Hagle Re.Cerce: The court, with the consent of the parties, may
appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in the proceedings
under the provisions of this Chapter; and the single referee, whe.i
thus appointed, has all the powers and may perform all the duties re­
quired of the three referees. 

Section 340:5. Partition mu8t be made A.ccordin&
to Right• oC the Parties: In making the partition the ref­
erees must divide the property and allot the several portions thereof
to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered,
according to the respective rights of the parties as determined by the
court. pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. designating the sev­
eral portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a surveyor, with
the necessary assistants, to aid them. 

Section 3406. Referees 111u•t MaLe Report or Their
Proceediog8: The referees must make a report of their proceed­
ings, specifying the manner in which they executed their trust, and de­
scribing the property divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with
a particular description of each share. 

Section 3407. Proceedina-8 open Report, Jud.-ment
and Efrect: The court may confirm. change, modify, or set aside
the report. and if necessary. appoint new referees. Upon the report
being confirmed. judgment must be rendered that such partition be ef­ 
fectual forever. which judgment is binding and conclusive: 
1. On all persons named as parties to the action, and their legal
representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property _divided, or any part thereof. as owners in fee or as tenants for life or for
years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of
such property or of any part thereof. after the determination of a par­
ticular estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a 
heneficial interest in the property. or who have an interest in any un­
divided share thereof. as tenants for years or for life: 
2. On all persons interested in the property. who may be unknown,
to whom notice has been given of the action for partition by publica­
tion; 
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons or
either of them. And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the
death of any party before final judgment or decree: but such judg­
ment or decree is as conclusive against the heirs, legal representatives. 
o rassigns of such decedent, as if it had heen entered before his death. 

Section 34.0S. Judgment not te A.fleet Tf'nan1s ror 
Y ean: The judgment does not affect tenants for years less than
ten to the whole of the property which is the subject of the partition. 

Section 3409. Sales by Referees mu•• be a1 P1ll,1ie
Auction: .\11 sales of real property made by referees, under thi ... Chapter, must be made at public auction to the highest bidder. upn.t 
notice published in the manner required for the sale of real property
on execution. The notice must state the terms of sale, and if the
property or any part of it is to he subject to a prior estate. charge c >i. 
lien. that must be stated in the notice. 

Section 3~10. Court mu1t Direct '.rerms or Sale 01· 
(;redi1: The court must. in the order of sale. direct the terror ni 
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit. and for that por­
tion of which the purchase money is required by the provisions here- 
inbefore contained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners,
infants or parties out of the State. 
contained.

Section 3411. Re.f'eirees may Take Securitie• for
Porcha•e Money: The referees may take separate mer! gages
and other secureties for the whole or convenient portions of the pur­
chase money, of such parts of the property as are directed by the
court to be sold on credit for the shares of any known owner of full
age, in the name of such owner; and for the shares of an infant in
the name of the guardian of such infant: and for other shares in the
the name of the clerk of the court and his successors in office.

Section 34UJ. When Interettt• oC Partle8 A.Mcer­
talned. SecuritietJ Taken in Their :Nameis: When secur­ 
ity is taken by the referees on a sale, and the parties interested in such
security by an instrument in writing. under their hands, delivered to
the referee. agree upon the shares and proportions to which they are
respectively entitled. or when shares and proportions have been pre­
viously adjudged by the court. such securities must be taken in the
names of and payable to the parties respectively entitled thereto, and
must be delivered to such parties upon their receipt therefore. Such
agreement and receipt must he returned and filed with the clerk. 

Section 3413. Terms must be :Mad.- Known. Lot•
Sold Separately: In all case of sales of property the ten ;1s must 
he made known at the time: and if the premises consist of distinct
farms or lots, they must he sold separately. 

Section 3414. Who may not be Purcha•er11: Neither
of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of either of them. can be
interested in any purchase; nor can a guardian of an infant party
be interested in the purchase of any real property being the subject
nf the action. except for the benefit of the infant. ..\11 sales contrary to 
the provisions of this Section are void.

Section 3413. ReCeret-8 mus1 Make a Report oC
Sale: .\ fter completing a sale of the property, or any part thereof
ordered to he sold. the referees must report the same to the court
with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each pur­
chaser; the name of the purchaser: the price paid or secured; the terms
and conditions of the sale. and the securities. if anv, taken. The re- 
port must be filed in the office of the clerk.

Section 3416. If' Conftrmed Conveyances may br
Executed: If the sale be confirmed by the court, an order must be 
entered directing the referees to execute conveyances and take securities
pursuant to such sale. which they are hereby authorized to do. Such
order may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the 
proceeds of the sale. 

Section 3417. Proceed ins IC a Lien holder Bef!oDln
a Purchataer: When a party entitled to a share of the property,
or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, be­
comes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of
the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him. 

Section 3-tlS. ConYeyanf!e mo•t be Be~orded, a Bar
A.galn•t Partle•: The conveyances must be recorded in the
county where the premises are situated. and shall be a bar against
all persons interested in the property in any way. who shall have
been named as parties in the action. and against all such parties and
persons as were unknown, if the summons was served by publication.
and against all persons claiming under them, or either of them, and
against all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at the com­
mencement of the action. 

Section 3419. When tJnequal Partition Ordered,
Compen•atlon Adjudged: When it appears that partition can­
not be made equal between the parties, according to their respective
rights. without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them.
and a partition be ordered, the court may adjudge compensation to
he made by one party to another. on account of the -inequality: but
such compensation shall not be required to be made to others by own­
ers unknown. nor by an infant unless it appears that such infant has
personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will
he promoted thereby. And in all cases the court has power to make
compensatory adjustment between the respective parties according to 
the ordinary principles of equity. 

Section 3-1:~0. Esta1e tor LiCe or Y~ars in Part ot
Property: When a part of the property only is ordered to he sold, if 
Property:
\/V hen :1
there be an estate for life or years, in an undivided share of the whole
property, such estate may be set off in any part of the property not
ordered to be sold. 

Section 34~1. Tenants Whose E81ate has been Sold
Shall Receh·e £ompen8ation: The person entitled to a
tenancy for life or years. whose estate has been sold. is entitled to re­
ceive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for such
estate, and which the person so entitled may consent to accept in­
stead thereof. by an instrument in writing filed with the clerk of the
court. Upon the filing of such consent the clerk must enter the same
in the minutes of the court. 

Section 3-1:9~. The (Jourt 1'1ay :t"ix Such Compen•a­
tion: If such consent be not given. filed and entered as provided
in the last Section. at or before a judgment of sale is rendered. the
court must ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds
of the sale, after deducting expenses. will he a just and reasonable
sum to be allowed on account of such estate. and must order the
same to be paid to such party or deposited in court for him. as the
case may require. 

Section 3493. Tile (Jourt 1'11111t Prote«-t Tenan18 1Jn­
known: T f the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown. the court must provide for the protection of their rights
in the same manner as far as rnav he. as if thev were known and ha, 1 
appeared. 

Section 34'14. ~ourt Must A11certain and Se~11r~
Future, (Jon11Dl'ent or Ve,ded Interests: In all cases of 
sales when it appears that any person has a vested or contingent future
right or estate in any of the property sold, the court must ascertain
and settle the proportional value of such contingent or vested right
or estate, and must direct such proportion of the proceeds of the sale to 
he invested. secured. or paid over. in such manner as to protect the rights
and interests of the parties. 

Section 34~:J. Lienltolder8 M111t be Mad.- PartieM,
or ReCeree A.1,pointed: If it appears to the court. by the cer­
tificate of the county recorder or clerk. or bv the sworn or verified
statement of any person who may have exami;..ed or searched the rec­
ords that there are outstanding liens or encumbrances of record upon 
such real property, or any part or portion thereof, which existed and
were of record at the time of the commencement of the action, and
the persons holding such liens are not made parties to the action, the
court must either order such persons to be made parties to the action,
by an amendment or suppplemental complaint, or appoint a referee
to ascertain whether or not such liens or encumbrances have been paid,
or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon, and their order
among the liens or encumbrances severally held by such persons and
the parties to the action, and whether the amount remaining due thereon
has been secured in any manner, and if secured, the nature and extent
of the security. 

Section 3498. Lieuholden lftu•t be :Notified to Ap­
pear BeCore ReCeree: The plaintifff must cause a notice to be
served, a reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before
the referee appointed as provided in the last Section, 011 each person
having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to the action,
to appear before the referee at a specified time and place, to make
proof by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the amount due or to be­
come due, contingently or absolutely thereon. In case such person
he absent or his residence be unknown, service may be made by 
publication or notice, to his agents, under the direction of the court,
in such manner as may be proper. The report of the referee thereon
must be made to the court, and must be confirmed, modified, or set
aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case may re­
quire. 

Section 3"97'. Lien oo IJadiYided lnt~re1tt, a Char~c
only on Share A.Higaed to ~Heh Party: When a lien is 
on an undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if
a partition be made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share
assigned to such party; but such share must first be charged with its
just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such lien. 

Section 34gs. A.pplieation ••t• Proeeedt1 oC Sale of·
lncambered Property: The proceeds of the sale of incumbered
property must be applied under the direction of the court as follows: 
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the action; 
2. To pay the costs of the reference;
3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in their order of 
priority. by payment of the sums due and to hecome due the amount 
due to he verified hy affidavit at the time of payment:
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according 
to their respective shares therein. 

Section 3429. quired to ExhauMt Them: Whenever any party to an action
who holds a lien upon the property. or any part thereof, has other 
securuies for the payment of the amount of such lien, the court may,
in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a dis­
tribui ;01, of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just reduction to be
-made from the amount of the lien on the property on account thereof. 

Section 3430. Proceed8 oC Nale, Di•position ot·: The
:proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the referees, or any part 
thereof, must be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto,
whenever the court so directs. But in case no direction be given, 
all of such proceeds and securities must be paid into court or de­
posited therein, or as directed by the court.

Section 8481. Caoile 1'1ay be Continu~d Cor the De­
termination. Claim• .&.t'ter Sale: When the proceeds of the
sale of any share or parcel belonging to persons who are parties to
the action, and who are known, are paid into court, the action may
be continued as between such parties for the determination of their
respective claims thereto, which must be ascertained and adjudged
by the court. Further testimony may be taken in court or by a
referee, at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if neces­
sary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy.
by pleadings as in an original action.

Section 348~. Proceed• Belonging to Partin IJn­ 
kaown 1'1o•t be In-ve•ted: When there are proceeds of sale
belonging to an unknown owner, or to a person without the State.
who has no legal representative within it, the same must be invested 
in securities at interest for the benefit of the person entitled ; hereto, 

Section 8488. lnYntment 1'lu8t be Mad~ in :Nam.­
oC: When the security of the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an
investement of any such proceeds is made it must be done, except as
herein otherwise provided, in the name of the recorder of the county
where the papers are filed, and his successors in office, who must
hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties interested, subject
to the order of the court. 

Section 8484. Duties oC Making lnTe•tment.: The
recorder in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an invest- 
ment is made, and his successors in office, must receive the interest
and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the
court may direct; and must deposit with the county treasurer all se­
curities taken and keep an account in a book provided and kept for
that purpose in the recorder's office, free for inspection, by c-.11 per­
sons of investments in monies received by him thereon, and the 
disposition therof. 

Section 8433. Share of' aa Iafllnt Paid to Hi• Guar­
dian: When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referee making the sale to his general guardian, 
or the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon giving
the security required by law or directed by order of the court. 

Section 1438. Share of' loeane Penon Payable to
Guardian: The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate of an insane person or other person ad­ 
judged incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in
real property has been sold. may receive in behalf of such person. his 
share of the proceeds of such real property from the referees on exe­
cuting, with sufficient sureties, an undertaking approved by a judge
of the court, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed in
him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled or
to his legal representative. 

Section 3437. G11ardian ltlay Con•ent to Partition
Without .tl.ctlon: The general guardian of an infant, and the
guardian entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an
insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his
own affairs. who is interested in real estate held in joint tenancy, or
in common, or in any other manner so as to authorize his being made
a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a par- 
. tition without action. and agree upon the share to be set off to such
infant or other person entitled and may execute a release in his De­
haJf to the owners of the shares of the parts to which they may h~
respectively entitled. upon an order of the court. 

Section 3438. The costs of partition. inch1d;!~g reasonable
counsel fees, expended by the plaintifff or either of the defendants. 
for the common benefit. fees of referees. and other disbursements,
must be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands
divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein, and may
be included and specified in the judgment. In that case they shall 
be lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by
execution against such shares, and against other property hel<l by 
the respective parties. When, however, litigation arises between
· some of the .parties only, the court may require the expenses of such
litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.

Section 3439. A.b8traet ot· Title: If it appears to the
court that it was necessary to have made an abstract of. the title to 
the property to be partitioned, and such abstract shall have been
procure<l by the plaintifff, or if the plaintifff shall have failed to have
the same made before the commencement of the action, and any one
of the defendants shall have had such abstract afterwards made, the
cost of the abstract, with interest thereon from the time the same is
subject to the inspection of the respective parties to the action. must
be allowed and taxed. 

Section 3440. Expent1es oC Partition. A.ppor1ion­
•ent: The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistants, when employed, must be ascertained and allowed
by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed
by the court, in its discretion, to the referees, must he apportioned
among the different parties to the action, equitably.

Section 34.fl. Natur~ oC Action: An action may be
brought in the name of the people of the State against any person 
who usurps. intrudes into, holds or exercises any office or franchise.
real or pretended, within this State. without authority of law. 

Section 344g. ,,Tho 1'1ay Pro•~ute: Such action shall
be brought by the prosecuting attorney of the proper county, when
the office or franchise relates to a county, precinct or city, and when 
such office or franchise relates to the State, hy the attorney general;
and it shall be the duty of the proper officer, upon proper showing,
to bring such action whenever he has reason to believe that any such
office or franchise has been usurped, intruded into, held or· exercised
without authority of law. Any person rightfully entitled to an office
or franchise may bring an action in his own name against the person
who has usurped, intruded into, or who holds or exercises the same.

Section 3443. Order ot· A.rrest in u~rtain Ua11e11: 
\V:~never such action is brought in the name of the people of the
State, the prosecuting attorney at the request of the person entitled
to the office or franchise, in addition to the cause of action in behalf 
of the people of the State, may set forth the name of the person so entitled, with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case, upon
proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments
belonging to the office, and by means of usurpation therof, an order
may be granted by the judge, or court wherein the case is pending,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to bail; and there­
upon he may be arrested and held to bail, in the same manner and with
the same effect. and subject to the same rights and liabilities, as in other
civil actions where the defendant is subject to arrest. 

Section 3444. Judgment May Determine Right8 or
Both Ine11mbent and Claimant: In every such case judg­
ment may he rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also 
upon the right of the party so alleged to be entitled. or only upon
the ~ight of the defendant rt<. the form of the action and justice may
require. 

Section 3-1:43. When Rendered in FaTor oC .Appli­
cant: If the judgment be rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he
shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing such
official bond as may be required by law to take upon himself the execu­
tion of the office.

Section 3448. Damages 1'1ay be RecoTered by 8uc­
ce88tul A.pplica11t: If judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may
recoved by action, the damages which he may have sustained by reason
of the usurpation of the office by the defendant. 

Section 3447. When Several Persons Claim Sam~ 
Office: When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such per­
sons in order to try their respective rights to such office or franchise. 

Section 3448. IC DeCendaot Found GuiltJ·, What 
Judgment te be Rendered: \Vhen a defendant against whom
such action has heen hrought is adjudged guilty of usurping nr 
intruding into or unlawfully holding any office, franchise or privilege.
judgment must he rendered that such defendant he excluded from 
the office, franchise or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the ac­
tion. The court may also, in its discretion, in action to which the peo­
ple of the State are a party, impose upon the defendant a fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars, which fine, when collected, must be
paid into the treasury of the State. 

Section 3449. IJndertaklng,When ~quired: When
the action is brought upon the information or application of a private
party, the prosecuting attorney may require such party to enter into
an undertaking, with sureties to be approved by the said officer, con­
ditioned that such party or the sureties will pay any judgment for costs
or damages recovered against the plaintifff, and all the costs and ex­
penses incurred in the prosecution of the action. 

Section 3430. l8811e Defined. Kind•: Issues arise upon
the pleadings when a fact or a conclusion of law is maintained by
the one party and is controverted by the other. They are of two 
kinds: 
I. Of law; and, 
2. Of fact,

Section 3.t:31. IHue of' Law, Bow Rai•ed: An issue of
law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or answer, or to some 
part thereof. 

Section 343~. IH11e oC Fact, Row Rai11ed: An issue of
fret arises: 
1. Upon a material allevation in the complaint controverted by
the answer; and, 
2. Upon new matters in "the answer, except an issue of law is
joined thereon. 

Section 3433. IHue ot• l .. aw, Row Tried: An issue of
law must be tried by the court, unless it is referred upon consent. 

Section 3434. l8sue•, by Whom tried, and Order of
Trial: In actions for the recovery of specific real or personal prop­
erty, with or without damages, or for money claimed as due upon
contract, or as damages for breach of contract. or for injuries, an
issue of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived,
or a reference is ordered. as provided in this Code. Where, in these
cases, there are issues hoth of law and fact. the issue of law must be
first disposed of. In other cases, issues of fact must be tried by the
court subject to its power to order an issue to be referred to a referee,
as provided in this Code.

Section 34:13. Clerk nowt Enter Cao8ew on ~al e udar: 
The clerk must enter causes upon the calendar of the court according
to the date of issue. Causes once placed on the calendar must re­
main upon the calendar from court to court. until finally disposed
of: Provided, That causes may he dropped from the calendar hy con­
sent of parties, or by order of court, and may be again restored upon 
notice. 

Section 3438. Parties Jlay Brin« IHH~ Co Trial: 
Either party may bring an issue to trial. or to a hearing. and in the
«bseuce of the adverse party. unless the court, for good cause, other­
wise direct. may proceed with his case and take a dismissal of the
action. or a verdict, or judgment. as the case may require. 

Section 3437'. Jlotion •• Postpone Trial, RequisUeta 
er: .·\ motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence of
evidence can only be made upon affidavit showing the materiality of 
the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has
been used to procure it. The court may also require the moving
party to state, upon affidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain;
and if the adverse party thereupon admits that such evidence would
he given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or
offered and overruled as improper, the trial must not be postponed. 

Section 34:IS. In Case• oC A.djouro1Dent Party May 
Have Te•ti1Dony oC WitneH Taken: The party obtaining
a postponement of a trial in any court of record must, if required by
the adverse party. consent that the testimony of any witness of such
adverse party, who is in attendance, he then taken by deposition before
a judge or clerk of the court in which the case is pending, or before such 
notary public as the court may indicate, which must accordingly be
done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the trial, with the
same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses were
produced. 

Section 3439. Jury, Bow Drawn: \Vhen the action i . .;
called for trial by jury, the clerk must draw from the trial jury box
of the court, the ballots containing the names of the jurors. until the
jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted. 

Section 9460. Challenge., Peremptory, Row Talui!n: 
Either party may challenge the jurors, but where there are several
parties on either side, they must join in a challenge before it can be
made. The cha11enges are to individual jurors, and are either per­
emptory or for cause. Each party is entitled to four perernptorv
cha11enges. If no peremptory challenges are taken until the
panel is full, they must be taken by the parties alternately, commencing 
with the plaintifff.

Section 1481. Grounds oC Challenge: Challenges for
cause may be taken on one or more of the following grounds: 
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by this Code to
render a person competent as a juror: 
:!. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree to any party:
3. Stanrlmg in the relation of debtor or creditor, guardian and 
warrl 111-:i:,kr and servant. employer and clerk. or principal and agent
t, • either party or being a member of the family of either party, or a
partner, or united in business with either party. or surety on any bond
or obligation of either party;
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
·between the same parties for the same cause of action, or being then
a witnes- or suboecnaed therein; 
5. Pecuniary interest on the part of the juror in the event of the
action or in the main question involved in the action, except his interest
as a member or citizen of a municipal corporation; 
5.
6. Having an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits o i
the action, or main question involved therein. founded upon knowl­
edge or information of its material facts or of some of them; 
i· The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against or bias to or against either party. 

Section 34eg. Challenge8, Ho11· Tried: Challenges for
cause must he tried by the court. The juror challenged and any
other person, may be examined as a witness on the trial of the chal­
lenge.

Section 3463. Jury to be S11·orn: As soon as the jury
is completed. an oath must be administered to the jurors in sub­
stance. that they and each of them will well and truly try the matter 
in issue between. . . . . . . . . . . the plaintifff. and , the defendant, and a true verdict render according to the evidence,

Section 3464. Order oC Proceeding"' on 'rrial: When
the jury has been sworn. the trial must proceed in the following 
order. unless the judge for special reasons otherwise directs: 
1. The plaintifff. after stating the issue and his case, must pro­
duce the evidence on his part; 
2. The defendant may then open his defense and offer his evi­
dence in support thereof; 
3. The parties may then respectively offer rebutting evidence
only. unless the _court. for g-ood reason. in furtherance of justice, 
permit them to offer evidence upon their original case;
4. When the evidence is concluded. unless the case is submitted
to the jury on either side or on both sides without argument, the
plaintifff must commence and may conclude the argument ; 
5. If several defendants having separate defenses, appear by differ­
ent counsel, the court must determine their relative order in the evi­ 
5.
dence and argument;
6. The court may then charge the jury. 

Section 3483. CharKe to the Jury. Staten1ent or
Point. eC Law Contained: In charging the jury the court
may state to them all matters of law which he thinks necessary for
their information in giving their verdict; and if it states the testimony
of the case it must inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges
of all questions of fact. The court must furnish to either party at the
time, upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law con­
tained in the charge or sign at the time a statement of such points pre­
pared and submitted by the counsel of either party.

Section 3488. Special lo•truetion•: Where either party
asks. special instructions to be given to the jury, the court must either
give instructions, as requested, or refuse to do so, or give the instruc­ 
tions with a modification, in such maner that it may distinctly appear
what instructions were given in whole or in part.

Section 8467. View by Jury oC Premise.: When, in
the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of 
the property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred; it may order them to be conducted,
in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall 
be shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that
purpose. While the jury are thus absent no person, other than the
person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected witn
the trial. 

Section 8468. Admonition When Jury Permitted to 
Separate: If the jury are permitted to separate, either during the
trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished
by the court that it is their duty not to converse with, or suffer;
themselves to be addressed by any other person, on any subject of
the trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion
thereon until the case is finally submitted to them; Provided, how­
ever, That in all actions involving the title or right to possession of
mines or mining claims, or for damages thereto, if any party to such
action shall so request, the court shall not permit the jury to separate
during the trial, and in such case, the court shall not disclose to the
jury which party made such request, and no comment shall be made
thereon by either party to the action.

Section 3469. Jury May Take with Th~m Certain
Paper•: Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take with
them all papers which have been received as evidence in the cause,·
except depositions, or copies of such papers as ought not in the
opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in
possession ; and they may also take with them notes of the testimony
or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or any of them,
but none taken bv a~y other person
.
Section 3470. Deliberation oC Jory, how Conduded:
When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide in
court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept
together, in some convenient place, under charge of an officer. until
they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the court. Unless
by order of the court the officer having them under his charge must
not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make any him­
self, except to ask them if they are agreed upon their verdict; and
he must not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. 

Section 3471. nay Uo•e iu•o Uourt Co.r Further
ID•tructiou•: After the jury have retired for deliberation, 1£ 
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testi­
mony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law arising in
the cause, they may require the officer to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court, the information required must
'be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or counsel. 

Section 347~. Proceedins• in Ua•e a Juror llffome"
Sick: If, after the empaneling of the jury, and before verdict, a 
juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed
with the other jurors, or another juror may be sworn and the trial
begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or
afterwards empaneled

Section 3473. When P.reYented F.rom CiHwing
Verdict, ('au•e May be Retried: In all cases where the jury
are discharged or prevented from giving a verdict, by reason of ac­
cident or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after the
cause is submitted to them, the action may be again tried immediately,
or at a future time, as the court may direct.

Section 3474. Proceeding• While Jury are &bMent.
Sealed 'Verdict. Final &djoornment: While the jury are
absent the court may adjourn from time to time, in respect · to other
business but it is nevertheless open for every purpose connected with
the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is rendered or the jury
discharged. The court may direct the jury to bring in a sealed ver­
dict, at the opening of the court, in case of an agreement during a
recess or adjournment for the day. A final adjournment of the court
for the term discharges the jury.

Section 3473. Verdict, how Declared, Corm ot; Poll­
ing Jury: When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they
must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk and
the verdict rendered by their foreman. The verdict must be in writ­
ing. signed by the foreman, and must be read by the clerk to the
jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict. If more than 
three jurors disagree, they must be sent out again ; but if no disagree­
ment be expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled,
the ,·~rdict is complete and the jury discharged from the case. Either
party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the court or
clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict. If more than three an­
swer in the negative, the jury must again be sent out.

Section 3478. Proceeding• when Verdict•~ Informal:
When the verdict is announced, if it is informal or insufficient in
not covering the issue submitted, it may be corrected by the jury
under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out. 

Section 3,177. General and Special Verdict DeOned:
The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict
is that by which they pronounce generally upon all or any of the 
issues either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant ; a special verdict i:;
that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to
the court. The special verdict must present the conclusions of fact
as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them ;
and those conclusions of fact must be so presented as that nothing
shall remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

Section 34'78. When G~neral or Special ,·erdi~t
1'1ay be Rendered: In an action for the recovery of money
only. or specific real property. the jury, in their discretion. may ren­ 
der a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may 
direct a jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of 
the issues, and in a11 cases may instruct them, if they render a gen­
eral verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. 
The special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk and
entered upon the minutes. Where a special finding of facts is in­
consistent with the. general verdict, the former controls the latter,
and the court must give judgment accordingly.

Section 34:79. Verdict, A.ction• f'or BecoYery of'
1'1oney; Counterclaim: \Vhen a verdict is found for the plain­
tiff in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant, when
a counterclaim for the recovery of money is established, exceeding
the amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, the jury must also 
find the amount of the recovery. 

Section 8480. Verdl~t ia &etion• .f'or Speelftc Per­
•onal Property: In an action for the recovery of specinc per­
sonal property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff,
or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury, ii 
their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or, if being in favor of the
defendant, they also find that he is entitled to a return thereof, must
find the value of the property, and if so instructed, the value of spe­
cific portions thereof, and may at the same time, assess the damages,
if any are claimed in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing
party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention of such prop- 
erty. 

Section 3.fSI. Eatry oC Verdict: Upon receiving a
verdict, an entry must be made by the clerk in the minutes of the
court, specifying the time of trial, the names of the jurors and wit­
nesses, and setting out the verdict at length; and where special ver­
dict is found. either the judgment rendered thereon, or if the case be
reserved for argument or further consideration, the order thus re­
serving it.

Section 3482. Trial by Jory, when and how "1aiY~d: 
I. By failing to appear at the trial ; 
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed by the clerk;
3. By oral consent, in open court entered in the minutes. 

Section 3483. Decision ef'Uourt on Que8tion ot· Fact: 
Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its decision must be
given in writing and filed with the clerk within twenty days after
the cause is submitted for decision. 

Section 3484. Facts and Uonclusions or Law Sep­ 
arately Stated, Jud&ment on: In giving a decision, the facts
found and the conclusions of law must be separately stated. Judg­
ment upon the decision must be entered accordingly. 

Section 3483. Findlnsw 1'1ay he WaiYed, How: Find- 
ings of fact may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact : 
1. By failing to appear at the trial; 
2. By consent in writing, filed with the clerk :
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes. 

Section 3488. Preceedinl'• After Deter1oination or 
IHUf! oC Law: On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue of
Jaw, he may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two subdivisions of Section 3501 upon the failure of the defendant to an­
swer. If judgment be for the defendant upon. an issue of law. and
the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to
enable the court to complete the judgment. a reference may be or­
dered, as in that Section provided. 

Section 1487. ReCerence Ordered IJpon Agreement
oC Partin: A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of
the parties filed with the clerk. or entered in the minutes: 
I. To try any or all the issues in an action or proceeding, whether
of fact or of law, and to report a finding and judgment thereon; 
2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the court to determine
an action or proceeding. 

Section 8488. ReCerence Ordered on ftetion, in what
Ca.ee: When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the 
1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of
a long account on either side; in which case the referees may be
directed to hear and decide the whole issue or report upon any specific
question of fact involved therein; 
a
2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the informa­
tion of the court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or
order into effect ; 
3. When a question of fact other than upon the pleadings, arises
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action ; 
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a spe­
cial proceeding. 

Section 3489. Number of ReCeree8, Qualiflcation8,
Etc.: A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not ex­
ceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not
agree the court or judge must appoint one or more referees, not ex­
ceeding three. who reside in the count)' in which the action or pro­
ceeding is triable. and against whom there is no legal objection. 

Section 3490. Either Party 1'1a!' Object: Either party
may object to the appointment of any person as referee, on one or
more of the fol1owing grounds : 
1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by statute to
render a person competent as a juror; 
2. Consanguinity '·or affinity within the third degree to either
party; 
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and
servant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party, 
or being a member of the family of either party; or a partner in busi­
ness with either· party; or being security on any bond or obligation
for either party; · 
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on any tria1 between
the parties for the same cause of action ; 
5. Interest on the part of such person in the event of the action,
or in the main question involved in the action ; 
6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief
as to the merits of the action ; 
7. The existence of a state of mind in such person evincing enmity
against or bias to either party .

Section 9491. Objedion•, how Di•po•ed oC: The ob­
jections taken to the appointment of any person as referee must be
heard and disposed of by the court. - Affidavits may be read and wit­
nesses examined as to - such objections. 

Section 3499. ReCereee •• Report Within Twenty
Daye: The referees must report their findings in writing to the
court within twenty days after the testimony is closed; and the facts
found and conclusions of Jaw must be separately stated therein. 

Section 8493 Effect oC Referee'• Flndlnc: The find­
ing of a referee upon the whole issue must stand as the finding of
the court. and upon filing the finding with the clerk of the court.
judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action
had been tried by the court. 

Section 9494. Bow Eicepted to, Etc.: The findings of
the referee may be expected to and reviewed in like manner as if
made by the court. \Vhen the reference is to report the facts. the find­
ing- reported has the effect of a special verdict.

Section :1493. .Jodsment Deftned: A judgment is the
final determination of the rights of the parties in an action or prt•· 
ceedings. 

Section 496 . .Judgment when Me•eral Partie• Plain­
tiff and DeC~odant: Judgment may be given for. or 'again:-t 
one or more of several plaintifffs. and for or against one or more oi 
several defendants: and it may, when the justice of the case requires it. 
determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side. as between
themselves.

Section 8497'. Jodl'•e•t A.l'•l••t Oae PartJ, A.ctioo
te Preceed •• to Othen: In an action against several defendants 
the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others whenever ,t 
several judgment is proper. 

Section 3498. Relief' te he A. warded to Plaio1Uf: 
The relief granted to the plaintifff. if there be· no answer. cannot ex­
ceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint: hut in any
other case, the court may grant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.

Section 3499. Action may be Dismissed or Nonit
‘Entered:
An
action
may
be
dismissed,
or
a
judgment
of
Solt ·Entered: An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of
non-suit entered, in the following cases: 
non-suit
entered,
in
the
following
cases:
1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time before trial, upon the
.payment of costs; Provided, A counterclaim has not been made or
affirmative relief sought by the cross-complaint or answer of defend­
ant. If a provisional remedy has been allowed the undertaking must
thereupon be delivered by the clerk to the defendant, who may have
2. By either party, upon the written consent of the other;
3. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and 
the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal ;
4. By the court, when, upon the trial, and before the final submis­ 
sion of the case, the plaintifff abandons it;
5. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when, upon the 
trial, the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient case for the jury. The
dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions is made by an entr I 
in the clerk's register. Judgment may thereupon be entered accord­
ingly. 

Section 3:100. A.II ether Judpnent• are on the
-'ll.eri1•: In every case, other than those mentioned in the last Sec­
tion, judgment must be rendered on the merits. 
I. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money
or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the
court within the time ~1. eciried in t l-e summons. or such further time
as may have been granted, the clerk, upon application of the plaintifff,
must enter the default of the -lefendant, and immediately thereafter
enter judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including
the costs against the defendant, or against one or more of several de­
fendants, in the cases provided for in Section 3197. 
2. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of
the court within the time specified in the summons, or such further
time as may have been granted, the clerk must enter the 'default of
the defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or
any subsequent term of the court for the relief demanded in the com­
plaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is neces­
sary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment
into effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof or may.
in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the
action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court
may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or if, to determine
the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be in­
volved by a reference as above provided; 
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publica­
tion, the plaintifff upon the expiration of the time for answering,
may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been 
filed, apply for judgment; and the court may thereupon require proof
to be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint and if the de­
fendant be not a resident of the State, must require the plaintifff or his
agent to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been
made to the plaintifff or to any one for his use, on account of such de­
mand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled 
to recover.

Section 330~. Judgment to be Entered in Twenty­
Ceur Roon: When trial by jury has been had, judgment must
be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, within twehty­
four hours a Iter the rendition of the verdict, unless the court order the
case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant
a stay of proceedings. 

Section 130:1. Caoee may be Broor;ht ae,ore Court
Cor A.rsument: When the case is reserved for argument or
further consideration, as mentioned in the last Section, it may be
brought by either party before the court for argument. 

Section 9304. When Counter Claim E•tabliehed Exeeeds PlaintiW'• ~Bland: If a counterclaim, established at
the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand, judgment for the defendant
must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to arty other affirmative relief, judgment must be given ac­ 
cordingly,

Section 3505. In Replevin: In an action to recover the
possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be
for the possession or the value thereof, in case a deli very cannot he
had, and damages for the detention. If the property has been de­
livered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judg­
ment for the defendant may be for a return of the property or the
value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking
and withholding the same. 

Section 3506. Gold Col~ or Currency, Judgment: 
In C\u action on a contract or obligation in writing. for the direct 
payment of money. made payable in a specified kind of money. or
currency, judgment for the plaintifff, whether it be hy default or after
verdict, or decision. may follow the contract or obligation, and be
made payable in the kind of money or currency specified therein, and
in all actions for the recovery of money. if the plaintifff allege in his
complaint that the same was understood or agreed by the respective
parties to be payable in a specified kind of money or currency. and this
fact is admitted by the default of the defendant or established by evi­
dence, the judgment for the plaintifff must be made payable in the
kind of money or currency so alleged in the cornplaint : and in an ac­
tion against any person for the recovery of money received by such
person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another Judgment for
the plaintifff, must be made payable in the kind of money or currency
so received by such person.

Section 187. 4'odgment Beek to be Kept by Clerk:
The clerk must keep with the records of the court, a book to be 
caheu the "judgment book." in which judgments must be entered.

Section 1308. If' a Party Die A.Uer Verdict, Judg­
•eat aot a Lie•: If a party die after a verdict or decision upon 
any issue of fact, and before judgment, the court may nevertheless
render judgment thereon. Such judgment is not a lien on the real
property of the deceased party, but is payable, in the course of admin­
istration on his estate. 

Section 3309. .Judgment Roll, what ·coastitute•: 
Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk must attach to­
gether and file the following papers, which constitute the judgment 
roll: · 
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the
summons with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint,
with a memorandum endorsed thereon that the default of the defend­
ant in not answerinz was entered, and a copy of the judgment; 
2. In all other cases, the pleadings, a copy of the verdict of the
jury, or finding of the court, or referee, all bills of exceptions taken
and filed, and a copy of any order made on demurrer, or relating to
a change of parties, and a copy of the judgment. If there are two
or more defendants in the action, and any one of them has allowed
judgment to pass against him by defaulj, the summons, with proof
of its service upon such defendant, must also be added to the other
papers mentioned in this subdivision. 

Section 318. .Judgment Lien, wllen Begin• and
when Es:pire•: Immediately after filing the judgment roll, the
clerk must make the proper entries of the judgment. under appro­
priate heads, in the docket kept by him, and from the time the judg­
ment is docketed it becomes a lien upon all the real property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the county. owned
by him at the time or which he may afterwards acquire, until the lien
expires. The lien continues for two years unless the judgment be 
previously satisfied. ·~T unless the enforcement of the judgment he 
stayed on appeal by the execution of a sufficient undertaking as pro­ 
vided in this Code. in which case the lien of the judgment ceases.

Section 3:HI. Docket, how Kept, w·bat to Contain: 
The docket mentioned in the last Section is a book which the clerk
keeps in his office with each page divided into columns and headed
as follows: 
Judgment debtors; Judgment creditors; Judgment-time of en-­
try; Where entered in judgment book; Appeals--when taken; J udg­
ment of appellate court: Satisfaction of Judgment-when entered.
J f judgment be for the recovery of money or damages, the amount
must be stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the judg­
ment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the general character
of the action or of the relief granted must be stated. The names of
the defendants must be entered in alphabetical order. 

Section 3512. Docket Open Cor lnepection Wlfhont
Charse : The docket kept by the clerk is open at all times during 
office hours for the inspection of the public, without charge. The
clerk must arrange the several dockets kept by him in such a manner ct:,; 
to facilitate their inspection. 

Section 3313. Tran•c'rlpt Filed in any County,
Judr;ment Become. a Lien there: A transcript of the 
original docket certified by the clerk, may he filed with the recorder
of any other county. and from the time of the filing the judgment
becomes a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor, not
exempt from execution in such county. owned by him at the time )r
which he may afterwards and before the lien expires, acquire. The
lien continues for two years, unless the judgment be previously satis­ 
:~ect. or unless the enforcement of the judgment be stayed upon appeal.
as hereinbefore provided. 

Section 8314. 8ati•fllctlon •C .Judgment, hew 1'1ade: 
Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in the clerk's docket
upon an execution returned satisfied, or upon an acknowledgment of 
satisfaction filed with the clerk, made in the manner of an acknowl .. 
edgment of a conveyance of real property by the judgment creditor;
or by his endorsement on the face, or on the margin of the record of
the judgment, or by the attorney, unless a revocation of his author­ 
ity is filed.
Whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon an 
execution, the party or attorney must give such acknowledgment or
make such indorsement, and upon motion the court may compel it.
or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made without it. 
llectioa UUi. Eiceptlea DeOued, when Taken, 
Tinale .f'or Settlement: An exception is an objection upon a
matter of law, to a decision made either before or after judgment, 
by a court, tribunal, judge, or other judicial officer in an action or pro­
ceeding. 
Except as provided in the next Section, the exception must be
taken and settled at the time the decision is made, and no order of
court shall be made for the settlement of such exception at any other
time except by the agreement of both parties. 
When an exception is taken, the court, judge, tribunal, or judicial
officer shall allow sufficient time for the reduction to writing, and
settlement of the same, and in case such time shall not be allowed,
or such exception shall not be fairly settled, the facts may be shown
by affidavit, and the party taking such exception may apply to the
court, or tribunal. to which an appeal lies, in the action or proceed ing, to settle the same fairly, according to the facts. and when so
settled, the same shall become a part of the record in such action or 
proceeding. 

Section 3318. What Deemed Eic~pted to: The ver­
dict of the jury, the final decision in an action or proceeding, an
interlocutory order or decision, finally determining the rights of the
parties. or some of them; an order or decision made upon a contested
motion; an order or decision from which an appeal may be taken:
an order sustaining or overruling a demurrer, allowing or refusing to
allow an amendment to a pleading. striking out a pleading or a por­
tion thereof, refusing a continuance an order made upon ex-parte
application. and an order or decision made in the absence of a party.
are deemed to have been excepted to and such exception to the verdict
of a jury ; to the final decision of an action or proceeding; to an or­
der or decision finally determining the rights of the parties or any of
them; to an order sustaining or overruling a demurrer; or to any other
order or decision included within the terms of this Section, wh-re such
order or decision and the papers upon which it is made are a part of
the records and files in the action. need not, unless desired by the party
objecting thereto. he embodied in a bill of exceptions. but the same.
appearing in the record or files. may he reviewed upon appeal as
though settled in such hill of exceptions. 

Section 3317. Exception, Form ot·: No particular form
of exception is required. But when the exception is to the verdict
or decision. upon the grounds of the insufficiency of the evidence to
sustain it. the objection must specify the particulars in which such
evidence is a11eged to be insufficient. The objection must be stated.
with so much of the evidence or other matter as is necessary to ex­
plain it. and no more. Only the substance of the reporter's notes of
the evidence shall be stated. Documents on file in the action or pro­
ceeding may be copied. or the substance thereof stated, or a reference
thereto. sufficient to identify them may be made. 

Section 3518. Biii eC Eseeplion11: A bill containing the
exception to any decision may be presented to the court or judge for
settlement at the time the decision is made, and after having been
settled, shall be signed by the judge and filed with the clerk. \ Vhen
the decision excepted to is made by a tribunal other than a court, or
by a judicial officer, the bill of exceptions shall be presented to, and
settled and signed by such tribunal or officer.

Section 3519. Bill oC Eseeptlea•, Prepara1ien and
8ettlement eC: When a party desires to have exceptions taken
at a trial" settled in a bill of exceptions, he may, within ten days after
the entry of judgment. if the action were tried with a jury, or after
receiving notice of the entry of judgment, if the action were tried
without a jury, or such further time as the court in which the action
is pending, or a judge thereof. may allow, prepare the draft of a bill,
and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse party. With­
in ten days after such service, the adverse party may propose amend­
ments thereto, and serve the same. or a copy thereof, upon the other
party. The proposed bill and amendments must within ten days
thereafter, by the party seeking the settlement of the bill, be de­
livered to the clerk of the court for the judge who tried or heard the
case. When received by the c1erk. he must immediately deliver
them to the judge. if he be in the county; if he be absent from the
county. amt within the State, and either party desire the papers
toebe forwarded to the judge, the clerk must. upon notice in writ­
ing of such party. immediately forward them by mail, or other
safe channel: if not thus forwarded, the clerk must deliver them to
the judge immediately after his return to the county. When re­
ceived from the clerk. the judge must designate the time at which
he will settle the bill, and the clerk must immediately notify the
parties of such designation. A t the time designated. the judge must
settle the bi 11. If the action was tried before a referee, the proposed
bill. with the amendments. if any. must be presented to such refere
for settlement within ten days after service of the amendments, and
thereafter. upon notice of five days to the adverse party. the referee
shall settle the bill. If no amendments are served. or if served are
allowed. the proposed bill may be presented. with the amendments,
if any. to the judge or referee. for settlement without notice to the
adverse party. It is the duty of the judge or referee. in settling the
bill. to strike out of it all redundant ary.<1 useless matter, so that the 
exceptions may be presented as briefly as possible. When settled, the
bill must be signed by the judge or referee, with his certificate to
the effect that the same is allowed and shall then be filed with the 
clerk. 

Section 3390. Exceptioa• .&ner Jotlg111ent, etc.: Ex­ 
ceptions to any decision made after judgment. may be presented to
the judge at the time of such decision and be settled or noted as
provided in Section 3518. and a bill thereof may be presented and
settled afterwards, as provided in Section 3519, and within like periods
after entry of the order upon appeal from which such decision is re­ 
viewable 

Section 3:191. Exception Refo•ed, Application to
Supreme £ourt: If the judge in any case refuse to allow an
exception in accordance with the facts, the party desiring the bill
settled may apply by petition to the supreme court to prove the 
sarr ~- The application may he made in the mode and manner, and
, . er such regulations as that court may prescribe; and the bill 
whr-n proven. must be certified by a justice as correct. and filed with
the clerk of the court in which the action was tried, and when so
filed it h..« the same force and effect as if settled by the judge who 
tried the cause. 

Section 3:J~g. Proceedin«• where .Judge Cea~N to
Bold OfB.ee, etc: \Vhen the decision excepted to was made by any
judicial officer other than a judge. the hill of exceptions shall he pre­
sented to such judicial officer and be settled and signed by him. in
the same manner as it is required to he presented to, settled and
signed hy a court or judge. A ju<lge or judicial officer mav settle 
and sign a bill 'Of exceptions after as well as before he ceases to be
such judge or judicial officer. If such judge or judicial officer, before
:the bill of exceptions is settled, dies, is removed from office, be­ 
·comes disqualified, is absent from the State, or refuses to settle the
· bill of exceptions, or if no mode is provided by law for the settlement
· of the same, it shall be settled and certified in such manner as the su­
preme court may, by its order or rules, direct. Judges, judicial of­
ficers, and the supreme court shall respectively possess the same power,
in settling and certifying statements as is by this Section conferred
upon them in settling and certifying bills of exceptions. 

Section 33g3. New Trial Deflntid: A new trial is a re­
examination of an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and
decision by a jury or court or by referees.

Section 3:1'14. When New Trial may be Granted: 
The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a new trial
granted on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the fol­
lowing causes. rnateriallv affecting the substantial rights of such
party: 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury. or adverse
party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial ; 
2. Misconduct of the jury; and when any one or more of the
jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict,
or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a
resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved
by the affidavit of any one of the jurors; 
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against ; 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the
application, which he could not. with reasonable diligence. have dis­
covered and produced at the trial; 
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the in­
fluence of passion or prejudice; 
5.
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other de­
cision, or that it is against law; 
7. Error in law, occurring at the trial. and excepted to by the party
making the application. 

Section 8393. ·on what Paprn 1'1oYed: "When an ap­
")hcation is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third, 
and fourth subdivisions of the .last Section it must be made upon affi­
davits; for any other cause it may be made at the option of the
moving party either upon the records, and files in the action, or the
minutes of the court or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case
prepared as hereinafter provided. 

Section 3398. ~o1ice: 1'1e&ien, !!t1atemeat, Prot~edure 
tJpoa Application: The party intending to move for a new
trial must, within ten days after the verdict of the jury, if the action
were tried by a jury, or after notice of the decision of the court or
referee, if the action was tried without a jury, file with the clerk and
serve upon the adverse party a notice of his intention, designating the
grounds upon which the motion will be made, and whether the same
will be made upon affidavits, or the records and files in the action, or
the minutes of the court or a bill of exceptions, or the statement of
the case; 
I. If the motion is to be made upon affidavits, the moving party
must, within ten days after serving the notice, or such further time
as the court in which the action is pending, or a judge thereof may
allow, file such affidavits with the clerk and serve a copy upon the ad­
verse party, who shall have ten days to file counter affidavits, a copy 
of which must be served upon the moving party; 
2. If the motion is to be made upon a bill of exceptions, and no
bill has already been settled as hereinbefore provided, the moving
party shall have the same time after service of the notice to prepare and
obtain a settlement of a bill of exceptions. as is provided after the
entry of judgment or after receiving notice of such entry by Sec- ·
tion 3519, and the bill shall be prepared and settled in a similar man­
ner. If a bill of exceptions has been already settled and filed, when
the notice of motion is given. such bill shall be used on the motion; 
3. If the motion is to be made on a statement of the case, the
moving party must. within ten days after the service of the notice, or
such further time as the court in which the action is pending, or the
judge thereof may allow, prepare a draft of the statement. and serve
the same, or a copy thereof upon the adverse party. 
If such proposed statement he not agreed to by the adverse party.
he must. within ten days thereafter, prepare amendments thereto.
and serve the same or a copy thereof. upon the moving party. T f
the amendments be adopted. the statements shall be amended ac­
cordingly and then presented to the judge. who tried or heard the
cause. for settlement, or be delivered to the clerk of the court for the 
judge. If not adopted, the proposed statement and amendments
shall, within ten days thereafter, be by the moving party delivered
to the clerk of the court for the judge and thereupon the same pro­
ceedings for the settlement of the statement shall be taken by the par­
ties, and clerk and· judge, as are required for the settlemnt of bills
of exception by Section 3519. If the action was heard by a referee,
the same proceedings shall be had for the settlement of the statement
by him as are required by that Section for the settlement of bills of
exception by a referee. If no amendments are served within the
time designated, or, if served are allowed, the proposed statement
and amendments, if any, may be presented to the judge or referee
for settlement without notice to the adverse party. When the notice
of the motion designates as the ground of the motion, the insuffi­
ciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence i~
alleged to be insufficient. 
When the notice designates as the ground of the motion. errors in
law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the moving party, or
deemed excepted to, the statement shall specify the particular errors
upon which the party will rely. If no such specifications be made,
the statement shall be disregarded on the hearing of the motion. It
is the duty of the judge or referee in settling the statement, to strike
out of it all redundant and useless matter, and to make the state­
ment truly represent the case, notwithstanding the assent of the
parties to such redundant or useless matter, or to any inaccurate state­
ment. When settled, the statement shall be signed by the judge
or referee, with his certificate to the effect that the same is allowed
and shall then be filed with the clerk; 
4. \Vhen the motion is to be made upon the minutes of the
court, and the ground of the motion is the insufficiency of the evi­
dence to justify the verdict or other decision. the notice of motion
must sped fy the particulars in which the evidence is a11eged to be
insufficient: and. if the ground of the motion be errors in law. O('.­ 
curring at the trial. and excepted to by the moving party. or deemed
excepted to. the notice must specify the particular errors upon which
the party will rely., If the notice do not contain the specifications
here indicated. when the motion is made on the minutes of the
court. the motion must he denied. 

Section 3527. Motion, when to Heard; The appli
cation for a new trial shall be heard at the earliest practicable period
after notice of the motion, if the motion is to be heard upon the min­
utes of the court, and in other cases, after the affidavits, bill of ex­
ceptions, or statement, as the case may be, are filed, and may be
brought to a hearing upon motion of either party. On such hearing
reference may be had in all cases to the pleadings and orders of the
court on file, and when the motion is made on the minutes, refer­
ence may also be had to any depositions, documentary evidence, and
stenographic report of the testimony on file. 

Section 83,,8. What Cenetifutew Record to be IJ•~d 
on Appeal: The judgment roll and the affidavits, or the records and
files in the action, or bills of exceptions. or statement, as the case
may be, used on the hearing, with a copy of the order made, shall
constitute the record to be used on appeal from the order granting or 
refusing a new trial. unless the motion be made on the minutes of
the court, and in that case the judgment roll and a statement to ht! 
subsequently prepared, with a copy of the order. shall constitute the
record on appeal. Such subsequent statement shalt be proposed hy
the party appealing, or intending to appeal. within ten days after
the entry of the order, or such further time as the court in which
the action is pending, or a jttdge thereof, may allow and the same.
or a copy thereof be served upon the adverse party. who shall have
ten <lays thereafter to prepare amendments thereto, and serve the same
or a copy thereof, upon the party appealing, or intending to appeal:
and thereafter proceedings shall he had. and within like periods, for
the settlement of the statement. as provided by Section 3526, but the
statement shall only contain the grounds argued before the court for
a new trial, and so much of the evidence or other matter as may "l~
necessary to explain them; and it shall be the duty of the judge to
exclude all other evidence or matter from the statement. 

Section 3:1~9. New Trial by Order ef •he Court: 
The verdict of a jury may also be vacated. and a new trial granted
by the court. in which the action is pending. on its own motion.
without the app1ication of either of the parties. when there has been
such a plain disregard by the jury of the instructions· of the court, or
the evidence in the case. as to satisfy the court that the verdict was
rendered under a misapprehension of such instructions. or under the
influence of passion. or prejudice. The order of the court may be
reviewed on appeal in the same manner as orders made on motions
for a new trial. and a statement to be used on such appeal may be 
prepared in the same manner as statements after a motion is heard
upon the minutes of the court, as provided in Section 3528.

Section 3330. lff otloa, when may be Beard: The
motion for a new trial may he brought to a hearing before the judge
who tried or heard the case. at chambers or in open court. in any 
county of the State. 

Section 3:131. Within what 'I ime Exec11tion may 
1 .. 11e: The party in whose favor judgment is gfren. may. at any
time within five; years after the entry thereof. have a writ of execu­
tion issued for its enforcement. 

Section 3532. · hsuanee, Form and Requirement•: 
The writ of execution must be issued in the name of the people.
sealed with the seal of the court. and subscribed bv the clerk, and be
directed to the sheriff. and it must intelligibly refe~ to the judgment.
stating the court. the county where the judgment roll is filed. and i 7 
it be for money. the amount thereof. and the amount actually due
thereon. and if made payable in a specified kind of money, or cur­
rency. as provided in Section 3.c,06. the execution must also state
the kind of money or currency in which the judgment is payable.
and must require the sheriff substantially as follows: 
r. If it be against the nronerty of the judgment debtor, it must
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment. with interest. out of the
personal property of such debtor. and if sufficient nersonal property
cannot be found. then out of his real nroperty : or if the iudgment be
a lien upon real property. then out of the real property belonging to 
him on the day when the judgment was docketed. or at any time 
thereafter;
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the
personal representatives. heirs. devisees, legatees, tenants, or trustees;
it must require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment. with interest. 
out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor. it must re­ 
quire the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of
the county until he pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged 
according to law;
4. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a specified kind 
of money or currency. as provided in Section 35o6, it must also re­
quire the sheriff to satisfy the same in the kind of money or currency
in which the judgment is made payable, and the sheriff must refuse
payment in any other kind of money or curency : and in case of levy
and sale of the property of the judgment debtor. he must refuse pay­
ment from any purchaser at such sale in any other kind of money or
currency than that specified in the execution. The sheriff collecting
money or currency in the manner required by this Chapter. must
pay to the plaintifff or party entitled to recover the same, 'the same
kind of money or currency received by him, and in case of neglect or
refusal so to do, he shall he liable on his official bond to the judg­
ment creditor in three times the amount of the money so colJected; 
~- If it he for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property. it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, describing it. to the party entitled thereto. and may at the
same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs. damages, rents, or
profits recovered hy the same judgment. out of the personal property 
of the person against whom it was rendered, and the value of the
property. it must require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
property for which the judgment was rendered. to he specified therein.
if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and if sufficient personal property
cannot he found then out of the real property. as provided in the first Subdivision of this Section. 

Section 3333. Wh~n 1'1ade Returnable: The execu­
tion may be made returnable, at any time not less than ten nor more
than sixty days after its receipt by the sheriff, to the clerk with
whom the judgment roll is filed. When the execution is returned.
the clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If any real estate be
levied upon, the clerk must record the execution and the return thereto
at large and certify the same under his hand as true copies in a
book to he ca11ed the "execution book," which book must be indexed
with the names of the plaintifff's and defendants in execution alpha­
betically arranged, and kept open at a11 times during office hours for
the inspection of the public without charge. It is evidence of the con­
tents of the originals whenever they or any part thereof, may be de­
stroyed. mutilated or Jost.

Section 3334. It• Dire«!tion• may Follew .Judsment: 
When the judgment is for money. or the possession of real or per­
sonal property, the same may be enforced by a writ of execution;
and if the judgment direct that the defendant be arrested, the execu­
tion may issue against the person of the judgment debtor, after the
return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or
part: when the judgment requires the sale of property. the same
may be en forced by a writ reciting such judgment, or the material
parts thereof. and directing the proper officer to execute the judg­
ment by making the sale and applying the proceeds in conformity
therewith; when the judgment requires the performance of any other 
act than as above designated. a certified copy of the judgment may 
be served upon the party against whom the same is rendered, or upon
the person or officer required thereby or by law to obey the same,
and obedience thereto may be enforced by the court.

Section 3:JS:J. Exe~ulion After FiYe Yean: In all cases
other than for the recovery of money. the judgment may be enforced 
or carried into execution after the lapse of five years from the date
of its entry, by leave of the court, upon motion. or bv judgment for
that purpose, founded upon suppleme_i:i~a} pleadings. 

Section 3:198. Eie~11tlon11 A.gain•t Property of' a Party
A.fter his Death: ~ otwithstanding the death of a party after the
judgment execution thereon may he issued, or it may be enforced as
follows: 
r. In the case of the death of the judgment creditor. upon the
application of his executor or administrator, or successor in interest: 
2. In the case of the death of the judgment debtor. if the judgment
he for the recovery of real or personal property. or the enforcement 
of a lien thereon. 

Section 939'7. E·H~cutioo, how and to whom IHued: 
Where the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor,
it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in the State. Wheret
it requires the delivery of real or personal property. it must he issued
to the sheriff of the county where the property. or some part thereof.
is situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to different
counties.

Section 3:138. Property Liable- 1• Seizure-, G~nf'rally: 
.\11 g-oo<ls. chattels. monies. and other property. both real and per­
sonal. or any interest therein of the judgment debtor. not exempt by
law. and a11 property and rights of property. seized and held under
attachment in the action. are liable to execution. Shares and inter-­
est in any corporation or company. and debts and credits. and all
other property both real and personal. or any interest in either real 
or personal property. and all other property not capable of manual
delivery. may he attached on execution in like manner as upon writs
of attachment. Gold dust must be returned hy the officer as so
much money collected. at its current value. without exposing the 
same to sale.

Section 3539. ~ot A.~c1ed 1Jntil Le~y Madtf. Until 
a levy. property is not affected by the execution. 

Section 8340. Property Claimed by Third Party,
how Rl~ht Tried: If the property levied on be claimed by ~l 
third person as his property. the sheriff may summon from his coun­
ty six persons qualified as jurors. between the parties. to try the va1idity of the claim. He must also give notice of the claim and nf 
the time of trial to the plaintifff. who may appear and contest the
claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses must be sworn hv
the sheriff. and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant. the sheriff
may relinquish the levy. unless the judgment creditor give him :'.
sufficient indemnity for proceeding thereon. The fees of the jurv,
the sheriff and the witnesses must be paid by the claimant. if the
verdict be against him: otherwise by the plaintifff. Each party must
deposit with the sheriff. before the trial. the amount of his fees and
the fees of the jury. and the sheriff must pay the same to the prc:­ 
vailing party. 

Section 3341. Preperty oC Married Women, EI·
empt: All real and personal estate belonging to any married
woman at the time of her marriage. or to which she subsequently
becomes entitled in her own right, and all the rents, issues and
profits thereof, and all compensation due or owing for her personal
services, is exempt from execution against her husband. 

Section. 334~. Proper1y Exemp1ed: In addition to the
homestead exempted by the Civil Code, the following property be­
longing to an actual resident of the State, is exempt from execution, 
except as herein otherwise specially provided. 
Frnsr. Chairs. tables. desks and books to the value of two hundred 
dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor. 
SECOND. Necessary household, table and kitchen furniture be
longing to judgment debtor, including one sewing machine in actual 
use in a family or belonging to a woman, stoves, stove pipe and stove
, furniture, beds, bedding and bedsteads, not exceeding in value three 
use in a
hundred doJlars ; wearing apparel, hanging pictures, oil paintings, anJ
drawings, drawn or painted by any member of the family and family
portraits and their necessary frames, provisions actually provided for
individual or family use sufficient for six months, two cows with their
sucking cakes and two hogs with their sucking pigs. 
THIRD. The farming utensils or implements of husbandry oi a
farmer not exceeding in value the sum of three hundred dollars ; also
four ( 4) oxen or four ( 4) horses, or four ( 4) mules to be selected by
claimants, and their harness, one cart or wagon, and food for such
oxen, horses or mules for six months ; also a water right not to ex­ 
ceed one hundred and sixty inches of water, used for the irrigation
. of lands actually cultivated by him; also the crop or crops growing
or grown on fifty acres of land, leased. owned or possessed by the
person cultivating the same. 
FouRTH. Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan neces­
sary to carry on his trade, not exceeding in value the sum of five
hundred dollars; the notarial seal and records of a notary public; the 
instruments and chest of a surgeon, physician. surveyor and
dentist, necessary to the exercise of their profession! with their scien­
tific and professional libraries: the law professional libraries and office 
furniture of attorneys. counselors and judges and the libraries of min­
isters of the gospel. 
FIFTH. The cabin or dwelling of a miner. not exceeding in value
the sum of five hundred dollars; also his sluices. pipes. hose. windlass.
derrick, cars. pumps and tools not exceeding in value two hundred dol­
lars; also one saddle animal and one pack animal together with their
saddles and equipments belonging to a miner actually engaged in
prospecting . not exceeding in value two hundred and fifty dollars. 
SIXTH. Two oxen. two horses, or two mules and their harnes»:
and one cart. wagon. dray or truck by the use of which a cartrnan.
drayrnan, truckrnan, huckster, peddler, hackman, teamster or other
Jaborer habitually earns a Jiving; and one horse . with vehicle and
harness or other equipment used by physician, surgeon or minister n f
the gospel in making his professional visits with food for such oxen. 
horses or mules for six months.
SEVENTH. The earnings of a judgment debtor for his personal 
services rendered at any time within thirty days next preceding the
levy of the execution. or levy of attachment, when it appears by the
debtor's affidavit or otherwise that such earnings are necessary for
the use of his family residing in this State supported wholly or in part 
by his labor. .
EIGHTH. The shares held by a member of a homestead associa- 
tion. or building or loan association duly incorporated. under the
laws of the State of Idaho not exceeding in value one thousand doi­
lars-if the person holding the shares is not the owner of a home­ 
stead under the laws of this State. 

or in any manner growing out of any life insurance on the life of the
debtor, to an amount represented by an anuual premium not exceed­
·ing two hundred and fifty dollars. 
TENTH. All fire engines, hooks and ladders with the carts,
trucks and carriages, hose, buckets, implements and apparatus thereto
appertaining and all furniture and uni forms of any fire company or 
department organized under any law of this State.
ELEVENTH. All arms. uniforms and accoutrements required b_i
law to be kept by any person, also one gun. 
TWELFTH. All court houses, jails, public offices and buildings,
school house lots, grounds and personal property appertaining
thereto, the fixtures, furniture, books, papers and appurtenances
belonging and· pertaining to the court house. jail and public offices
belonging to any county of this State. or for the use of schools, and
a11 cemeteries, public squares, parks and places. public buildings,
town halls, market buildings for the use of fire departments anJ
military organizations, and the lots and grounds thereto belonging
and appertaining, owned or held by any town or incorporated city,
or dedicated by such town or city to health. ornafnent or public use,
or for the use of any fire or military company organized under the
laws of this State. No article or species of property mentioned ill 
this Section is exempt from execution issued upon a judgment recov­
ered for its price or upon a mortgage thereon. 

Section 33'13. fl1rit, how Exec111ed: The sheriff must
execute the writ against the property of the judgment debtor. by 
levying on a sufficient amount of property if there be sufficient: col­
lecting or selling the things in action. amt selling the other property
and paying to the plaintifff or his attorney so much of the proceeds as 
will satisfy the judgment. Any excess in the proceeds over the jud:;·
ment and accruing costs must be returned to the judgment debtor, un­
less otherwise directed by the judgment or order of the court. When
there is more property of the judgment debtor than is suffiicient to
satisfy the judgment and accruing costs within the view of the sheriff,
he must levy only on such part of the property as the judgment debtor
may indicate, if the property indicated be amply sufficient to satisfv
the judgment and costs. 

Section 334-1:. Noti~e of· Sale, how Gi ... en: Before
the sale of the property on execution, notice thereof must be given, as 
follows: 
I. In case of perishable property, by posting written notice of
the time and place of sale in three ( 3) public places of the precinct
or city where the sale is to take place, for such time as may be reason­
able, considering the character and condition of the property. 
2. In case of other personal property, by posting a similar notice
in three public places in the precinct or city where the sale is to take
place for not less than five nor more than ten days before the time
set for the sale, and by publishing a copy thereof at least one ,veek.
and not more than two weeks. in a newspaper published in the county,
if there be one. 
3. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particu­
larly describing the property, for twenty days, in three public places i ri 
the precinct or city where the property is situated, and also where the
property is to be sold, and by publishing a copy thereof once a week
for the same period before the time set for the sale. in a newspaper
published in the county. if there be one. When judgment, under
which the property is to be sold is made payable in a specified kind
of money or currency, the several notices required by this section must
state the kind of money or currency in which bids may be made at
such sale. which must he the same as that specified in the judgment. 

Section 9:143. Selling Without Nolie~, Penalty, De­
,aeins Notice: . \n officer selling without the notice prescribed
bv the last Section forfeits five hundred dollars to the aggrieved
p~rty. in addition to his actual damages: and a person willfully tak­
ing down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the 
satisfaction of the judgment ( if the judgment be satisfied before sale).
forfeits five hundred dollars. 

Section 8346. Condod or Sale, Officer Cannot
Purchaae: .-\11 sales of property under execution must be made
at auction. to the highest bidder. between the hours of nine in the
morning and five in the afternoon. After sufficient property has
been sold to satisfy the execution. no more can be sold. Neither the
officer holding the execution nor his deputy can become a purchaser.
or be interested in any purchase. at such sale. When the sale is of
personal property, capable of manual delivery. it must be within
view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are
likely to bring the highest price: and when the sale is of real prop­
erty, consisting of several known lots or parcels, they must be sold
separately. or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a
third person, and he requires it to be sold separately. such portion
must be thus sold. The judgment debtor. if present at the sale.
may also direct the order in which property, real or personal. sha11 be
sold. when such property consists of several known lots or parcels,
or of articles which can be sold to advantage separately. and tho
sheriff must follow such directions.

Section 834'7. Pro~eedlns• on Reruul Co Pay Pur­
chase 1'1oney: If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid hy
him for property struck off to him at a sale under execution. the
officer may again sell the property at any time to the highest bidder,
and if any loss be occasioned thereby. the officer may recover the
amount of such loss. with costs, from the bidder so refusing. in any
court of competent jurisdiction.

Section 3348. When Sheritr may R«an1se Bid: Wben
a purchaser refuses to nav. the officer may. in his discretion. thereafter,
reject any subsequent hid of such person. 

Section 3:549. Officer'" Liabilit,- l,imited: The two
preceding Sections must not be constructed to make the officer liable 
for any more than the amount bid by the second or subsequent pur­
chaser and the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to pay. 

Section 3330. Personal Property, Delivered to Pur­
cha•er: \Vhen the purchaser of any personal property capable of 
manual delivery. pays the purchase money. the officer making the
sale must deliver to the purchaser the property. and if desired, exe­
cute and deliver to him a certificate of the sale. Such certificate
conveys to the purchaser all the right which the debtor had in such
property on the day the execution or attachment was levied.

Section 3551. Property not Uapable of Manual Bf"·
livery, llow Sold: Whe n the purchaser of any personal prop­
erty not capable of manual delivery pays the purchase money, the
officer making the sale, must execute and deliver to the purchaser a
certificate of sale. Such certificate conveys to the purchaser all the
right which the debtor had in such property on the day the execution
or attachment was levied.

Section 333~. Real Property, what Certificate mu•t
Contain; A.b•olutf" Sale, when: Upon a sale of real property,
the purchaser is substituted to, and acquires all the right, title, in­ 
terest and c1aim of the judgment debtor thereto: and all his right title, interest. and claim thereto at any time during any subsisting
lien thereon by attachment in the action. or by the docketing of the
judgment. When the estate is less than a leasehold of two years·
unexpired term, the sale is absolute. In all other cases the property
is subject to redemption, as provided in this Chapter. The officer
must give to the purchaser a certificate of sale containing: 
1. A particular description of the real property sold: 
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel:
3. The whole price paid; 
4. When subject to redemption. it must he so stated. And when
the judgment. under which the sale has been made is made payable
in a specified kind of money or currency. the certificate must also
show the kind of money or currency in which such redemption may
be made, which must be the same as that specified in the judgmen:. 
A duplicate of such certificate must be filed for record by the officer
in the office of the recorder of the county.

Section 1:138. Real Property, by whom it may ht­
Redeemed: Property sold subject to redemption. as provided fr,
the last Section. or any part sold separately. may be redeemed in the
manner hereinafter provided, by the following persons. or their suc­
cessors in interest: 
1. The judgment debtor. or his successor in interest. in the whole
or any part of the property : 
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment or mortgage on the
properly sold, on some share or part thereof. subsequent to that on 
which the property was sold. The persons mentioned in the second subdivision of this Section are. in this Chapter, termed redernp­
tioners. 

Section 3554. The judgment debtor or redemptioner may redeem 
~etion 83:14. When it may be Rede~med, Redemp­
the property from the purchaser within one year after the sale. on
paying the purchaser the amount of his purchase with ten per cem.
thereon in addition, together with the amount of any assessment or
taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after the put-­
chase, and interest on such amount; and, if the purchaser be also a
creditor having a prior lien to that of the redemptioner. other than
the judgment under which such purchase was made the amount of
such lien with interest. 

Section 3555. Redemption Right. Notice. Sheriff'•
Deed: If property be so redeemed by a redemptioner. another re­ 
demptioner may. within sixty days after the last redemption and 
within one year after the sale, again redeem it from the last redemp­
tioner on paying the sum paid on such last redemption with four per
cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessment or taxes
which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon. after the re­
demption by him with interest on such amount, and in addition the
amount of any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own.
with interest: but the judgment under which the property was sold
need not be so paid as a lien. 
within
The property may be again, and as often as a redemptioner is so
disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty 
days after the last redemption and within one year after the sale, on
paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption with four per
cent. thereon in addition and the amount of any assessemnts or taxes
which the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption by
him, with interest thereon. and the amount of any liens, other than
the judgment under which the property was sold, held by the last
redemptioner previous to his own, with interest. 
Written notice of redemption must be given to the sheriff, and a
duplicate filed for record with the recorder of the county: and. if any
taxes or assessments are paid by the redemptioner. or. if he has or
acquires any lien other than that upon which the redemption was 
made, notice thereof must in like manner be given to the sheriff and
filed with the recorder. and if such notice be not filed. the property may
be redeemed without paying- such tax. assessment or lien. 
If no redemption be made within one year after the sale. the pur
chaser. or his assignee. is entitled to a conveyance; or, if so redeemed,
whenever sixty days have elapsed and no other redemption has been
made. and notice thereon given. the time for redemption by a re­
demptioner has expired. and the last redemptioner or his assignee. fa
entitled to a sheriff's deed at the expiration of one year after the sale:
hut in all cases the judgment debtor shall have the entire period of one
year from the date of· the sale to redeem the property. 
If the judgment debtor redeem. he must make the same payments
as are required to effect a redemption by a redemptioner. 
If a debtor redeem. the effect of the sale is terminated and he is
restored to his estate. 
Upon a redemption by the debtor. the person to whom the pay­
ment is made must execute and deliver to him a certificate of redernn­
tion, acknowledged and proved before an officer authorized to 1:ake
acknowledgments of conveyances of real property. Such certificate
must be filed and recorded in the office of the recorder of the countv
in which the property is situated. and the recorder must note the
record thereof in the margin of the record of the certificate of sale.

Section 8338. To whem Payment• are to be :rtlade: 
The payments mentioned in the last two Sections may be made to 
the purchaser or redemptioner, or for him. to the officer who made
the sale. When the judgment under which the sale has been made
is payable in a specified kind of money or currency. payments ~m~t
he made in the same kind of money or currency. and a tender of the
money is equivalent to payment. 

Section 8337. What Redemptioner mast do to Re­
deem: A redemptioner must produce to the officer or person from
whom he seeks to redeem and serve with his notice to the sheriff: 
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he claims
the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of the court, or recorder
of the counuty where the judgment is docketed or filed; or, if he
redeem upon a mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof,
certified by the recorder; 
2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim.
verified by the affidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness thereto: 
3. An affidavit by himself or his agent. showing the amount then
actually due on the lien.

Section 1338. Court may Re•traln Wa•te •• Prop­
erty: Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the 
court may restrain the commission of waste on the property, by or­
der granted with or without notice, on the application of the pur­
chaser or the judgment creditor. But it is not waste for the person
in possession of the property at the time of sale, or entitled to pos­
session afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption. to con­
tinue to use it in the same manner in which it was previously used ;
or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the
necessary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on
the property therefore or for the repair of fences: or for fuel in his
family, while he occupies the property. 

Section 1339. Rents and Protlt•: The purchaser, from
the time of the sale until a redemption. and a redemptioner. from
rhe time of his redemption until another redemption, is entitled to
receive, from the tenant in possession. the rents of the property sold,
,,r the value of the use and occupation thereof. But when any rents
or profits have been received by the judgment creditor or purchaser,
or his or their assigns. from the property thus sold preceding such
redemption. the amount of such rents and profits shall be a credit
upon the redemption money to be paid; and if the redemptioner or
judgment debtor. before the expiration of the time allowed for such
redemption demands in writing of such purchaser. or creditor, or his
assigns, a written and verified statement of the amounts of such rents
and profits thus received. the period for redemption is extended five
days after such sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his
assigns. to such redemptioner or debtor, If such purchaser or his
assigns shall, for a period of one month from and after such demand,
fail or refuse to give such statement, such redemptioner or debtor, mav,
within sixty _days after said demand, bring an action in any court
of competent jurisdiction, to compel an accounting and disclosure of
such rents and profits, and until fifteen days from and after the final
determination of such action, the right of redemption is extended to
such redemptioner or debtor. 

Section 3:160. Failure oC Title. Right• et'Purchaffr·
Rewival of Judgment: If the purchaser of real property sold on
execution. or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in conse­
quence of irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of
the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover the price
paid, with interest. from the judgment creditor. If the purchase!"
of property at sheriff's sale. or his successor in interest, fail to re­
cover possession in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings
concerning the sale. or because the property sold was not subject to 
execution and sale. the court having jurisdiction thereof must, after
notice and on motion of such party in interest. or his attorney, re­
vive the original judgment in the name of the petitioner. for the
amount paid hy such purchaser at the sale. with interest thereo-i
from the time of payment at the same rate that the original judg­
ment bore; and the judgment so revived has the same force and effect
as would an original judgment of the date of the revival, and no 
more. 

Section 8381. Proceedl•I'• to Uompel Contribution: 
When upon an execution against several persons more than a due
proportion of the judgment is satisfied out of the proceeds of the
sale of the property of one of them. or one of them pays, witho~ a
sale, more than his proportion, he may compel contribution from the
others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an ob­
ligation of one of them, as security for another, and the surety pays
the amount. or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before
sale, he may compel repayment from the principal. In such case, the
person so paying or contributing is entitled to the benefit of the judg­
ment, to enforce contribution or repayment, if, within ten days after
his payment, he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment
was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or re­
payment. Upon a filing of such notice. the clerk must make an entry
thereof in the margin of the docket.

Section 8369. Debtor Required lo A..aHrer Uoncern­
lng Hit1 Property, when: When an execution against property
of the judgment debtor or of any of several debtors in the same judg­
ment. issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides. or if he
do not reside in this State, to the sheriff of the county where the
judgment roll is filed. is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part. the
judgment creditor at any time after such return is made, is entitled
to an order from the judge of the court, requiring such judgment
debtor to appear and answer upon oath concerning his property. he- 
fore such judge, or a referee appointed by him. at a time and place
specified in the order; but no judgment debtor must be required to
attend before a judge or referee out of the county in which he resides. 

Section 3:563. Proc~ediag to ()ompel Debtor'• Ap­
pearance. .&btJcondiog, A.rre1t of·: After the issuing of an 
execution against property, and upon proof by affidavit of a party or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court or of a judge thereof, that
any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply
towards the satisfaction of the judgment, .such court or judge may,
hy an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time
and place before such judge or a referee appointed by him to answer
upon oath concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor
toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are provided upon the
return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring the attend­
ance of the judgment debtor, the judge may upon affidavit of the
judgment creditor. his agent or attorney, if it appear to him that
there is danger of the debtor absconding, order the sheriff to arrest
the debtor and bring him before such judge. Upon being brought
before the judge, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking,
with sufficient surety. that he will attend from time to time before
the judge or referee. as may be directed during the pendency of pro­
ceedings and until the final termination thereof, and will not in the
meantime dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from
execution. In default of entering into such undertaking he may he 
committed to prison. 

Section 138.t. Debtor oC the .Jodsmeat Debtor may
Pay llherHI: After the issuing of an execution against property
and before its retum, any person indebted to the judgment debtor
may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof is
may be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the sheriff's receipt
is a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid. 

8ectiea 3383. Examination or Tbo11e Hawi•I' Prop­
erty Belonsing to J udsment Debtor: After the issuing 1r 
return of an execution against property of the judgment debtor or of
ony one of several debtors in the same judgment, or upon proof by
affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any per­
son or corporation has money or property of such judgment debtor, or
is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars. the judge
may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any officer
or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before him,
or a referee appointed by him. and answer concerning the same. 

Section 3388 .. Wltae.. Required t• Te•tlCy: Wit­
nesses may be required to appear and testify before the judge or ref­
cree, upon any proceeding under this Chapter. in the same manner
a.:. upon the trial of an issue. 

Section 3387. .Jud5e may Order Property te be Ap­
plied· OD Eiecutien: The judge or· referee may order any 
money or property of a judgment debtor not exempt from execution.
in the hands of such debtor or any other person, or due to the judg­
ment debtor. to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment. 

Section 3:188. Proceedl•I'• upon A.dwene Claim by 
Third Partle•: If it appears that a person or corporation. allegel 
w have money or property of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted 
t•> him. claims an interest in the money or property adverse to him. ·
or denies the debt, the court or judge may authorize, by an order
made to that effect. the judgment creditor to institute an action
;.gainst such person or corporation. for the recovery of such interest
or debt: and the court or judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or
ether disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can be
«ommenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modi- 
tied or vacated by the judge granting the same, or the court in which
the action is brought. at any time. upon such terms as may be just. 

Section 3389. Di•obedieoce eCOrden how Puai•hed: 
If any person, party, or witness disobey an order of the referee prop­
erly made in the proceedings before him under this Chapter, he may 
he punished by the court or judge ordering the reference, for a
contempt. 

Section 3370. Judsment and Orden may be Re­ 
A judgment or order, in a civil action, except when expressly made final, may be reviewed as prescribed m this Code, and
not otherwise. 

Section 3371. Order• made Without Notfoe may be
Reviewed by the Judge: An order made out of court, with­
out notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without
notice, by the judge who made it or may be vacated or modified on 
notice in the manner in which other motions are made.

Section 337~. Party A.gsrieved may Appeal. De•­
iguation oC Partie•: Any party aggrieved may appeal in the
cases prescribed in this Code. The party appealing is known as
the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent.

Section 3373. Within 11·bat Time Appeal may be 
Taken: An appeal may he taken to the supreme court. from a
district court. 
, . From a final judgment in an action or special proceeding com­
merced in the court in which the same is rendered. within one year
after the entry of judgment. But an exception to the decision or
verdict on the ground that it is not supported by the evidence. can­
not be reviewed on an appeal from the judgment. unless the appeal
is taken within sixty days after the rendition of the judgment. 
2. From a judgment rendered on an appeal from an inferior 
court, within ninety days after the entry of such judgment. 
J. From an order granting or refusing a new trial from an order
gr;;nting or dissolving an injunction: from an order refusing to grant
or dissolve an. injunction: from an order dissolving or refusing L"
dissolve an attachment ; from an order granting or refusing to grant
a change of the place of trial ; from any special order made after
final judgment : and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for
partition of real property. within sixty days after the order or in­
rerlocutory judgment is made and entered on the minutes of the 
court, or filed with the clerk.
4. From a judgment rendered as an appeal for an order, decision 
or action of a board of county commissioners. within ninety days
after the entry of such judgment. 

Section 3574.
is taken by filing with the clerk of the court in which the judgm~n~ 
or order appealed from is entered. a notice stating the appeal from
the same, or some specific part thereof. and serving a similar notice
on the adverse party. or his attorney. The order of service is im­
material, but the appeal is ineffectual for any purpose, unless within
five days after service of the notice of appeal, an undertaking be
filed, or a deposit of money be made with the clerk. as hereinafter
provided. or the undertaking be waived by the adverse party in
writing. 

Section 937:J. 1Jnder1akinr; or Dep"it on A.ppeal: 
The undertaking on appeal must be in writing. and must be ex­
ecuted on the part of the appellant by at least two sureties, to the
effect that the appellant will pay all damages and costs which may
be awarded against him on the appeal. or on a dismissal thereof, not 
exceeding three hundred dollars: or that sum must be deposited with
the clerk with whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide
the event of the appeal: Proridcd . That when more than one appeal
in the same action. whether from the judgment and an appealable
order or orders. or from two or more appealable or<lers. are taken at 
the same time. but one such undertaking or deposit for damages
and costs need he filed or made. 

Section 178. IJadertaklag en A.ppeal from a 1'1oney
Judsmt-nt: If the appeal be from a judgment or order directing
the payment of money, it does not stay the execution of the judg­
ment or order, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant by two or more sureties to the effect that they are
bound in double the amount named in the judgment or order; that
if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part thereof be af­
firmed or the appeal be dismissed the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment or order, or the part of such
amount as to which the judgment or order is affirmed, if affirmed
only in part, and all damages and costs which may be awarded
against the appellant upon the appeal, and that if the appellant does
not make such payment within thirty days after the filing of the
remittitur from the supreme court in the court from which the appe-il
is taken, judgment may be entered on motion of the respondent, in
his favor against the sureties, for such amount together with the
interest that may be due thereon, and the damages and costs which
may be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. If the
judgment or order appealed from, be for a greater amount than two
thousand dollars, and the sureties do not state in their affidavits of
justification· accompanying the undertaking that they are each worth
the sum specified in the undertaking, the stipulation may be that
the judgment to be entered against the sureties shall be for such
amounts only as in their affidavits, they may state they are severally
worth. and judgment may be enetred against the sureties by the
court from which the appeal is taken pursuant to the stipulations
herein designated. When the judgment or order appealed from, is
made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, the judgment
entered against the sureties upon the undertaking. must be made 
payable in. the same kind of money or currency.

Section 33'77. A.ppeal Crom Jud«ment ,or Deli'ver,r
oC Property: If the judgment or order appealed from direct the
assignment or delivery of documents or personal property, the ex­
ecution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed by appeal. unless
the things required to be assigned or delivered be placed in the
custody of such officer or receiver as the court or judge thereof may
appoint ; or unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the
appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court.
or judge thereof, may direct. to the effect that the appellant will obey
the order of the appellate court upon the appeal. 

Section 37S. A.ppeal Crom Judsment Directiu«
Ei:ecution oC ConTeyanee: If the judgment or order appeale<l
. rom. direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the
execution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed by the appeal
until the instrument is executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment or order is entered. to abide the judgment of the
appellate court. 

Section 3379. 1Jndertaklns en &ppeal Concerliin«
Real Property: If the judgment or order appealed from, direct
the sale or delivery of possession of real property the execution of
the same cannot be stayed. unless a written undertaking be execut.I
on the part of the appellant. with two or more sureties, to the effect
~ hat <luring the possession of such property by the appellant, he will
not commit. or suffer to be committed. any waste thereon. and that
if the judgment be affirmed. or the appeal dismissed. he will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judq­
ment or order. not exceeding a sum to be fixed by the judge of the
court by which the judgment was rendered or order made. and which
must be specified in the undertaking. When the judgment is for
the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency
arising upon the sale, the undertaking must also provide for the pay­
ment of such deficiency.

Section 3SO. Stay •• Preceediog11. Effed of' A.p­
Jteltl: Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the pr~ecl .. 
ing Sections of this Chapter, it stays all further proceeding in the
court below, upon the judgment or order appealed from, or upon the
matters embraced therein, and releases from levy property which
has been levied upon under execution issued upon such judgment;
but the court below may proceed upon any other matter embraced
in the action, and not affected by the order appealed from. And the
court below may, in its discretion, dispense with or limit the se­
curity required by this Chapter, when the appellant is an executor.
administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another's right. An
appeal does not continue in force and attachment unless an under­
taking be executed and filed on the part of the appellant, by at least
two sureties, in double the amount of the debt claimed by him that
the appellant will pay all costs and damages which the respondem
may sustain by reason of the attachment, in case the order of the
court below be sustained and unless, within twenty days after the
entry of the order appealed from. such appeal be perfected. 

Section 3:181. 1Jndertaldn5 may be lo one Instru­
ment or 8eYeral: The undertakings prescribed by Sections 
3575, 3576. 3577 and 3579. may be in one instrument or several, at
the option of the appellant. 

Section 3:189. .Ju•tHlcatlon oC Sureties on 1Jnder­
taldn5: The adverse party may except to the sufficiency of the 
sureties to the undertakings mentioned in Sections 3575, 3576, 357i 
and 3579, at any time with thirty days after the filing of such un­
dertaking; and. unless they or other sureties. within twenty days 
cl fter the appellant has been served with notice of such exception.
justify before a judge of the court below. or the probate judge of
the county. upon five days' notice to the respondent, of the time
and place of justification, execution of the judgment. order, or decree
appealed from is no longer stayed: and in alt cases where an under­
taking is required on appeal by the provisions of this Chapter, a de­ 
posit in the court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from. and three hundred dollars, in addition, is equivalent to filing
the undertaking; and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may he
waived by the written consent of the respondent. 

Section 3:183. . lJndertakins in Ca•n not Specified: 
In cases not provided for in Sections 3576. 3577, 3578 and 3579. 
the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, or making the
· deposit mentioned in Section 357 5, stays proceedings in th- court 
below, upon the judgment of the order appealed from, except where
it directs the sale of perishable property; in which case the court
he low may order the property to be sold and the proceeds thereof
:o be deposited. to abide the judgment of the appellate court. And
except, also, where it adjudges the defendant guilty of usurping )1· 
intruding into. or unlawfu11y holding a public office, civil or mili­
tary. within this State. And except, also, where the order grants,
or refuses to grant. a change of the place of trial of an action.

Section 3384. What Paper• to be u•ed on Appeal
Crom Judpnen1 : In an appeal from a final judgment, the appel- 
1ant must furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of
the judgment roll. and of any bill of exceptions or statement in the
case. upon which the appellant relies. Any statement used on mo­
tion for a new trial. or settled after decision of such motion. when
the motion is made upon the minutes of the court, as provided in Section 3528 or any bi11 of exceptions settled. as provided in Section
3518 or 3519. or used on motion for a new trial. may be used on 
appeal from a final judgment equally as upon appeal from the order
granting or refusing the new trial. 

Section 3585. Paper• IJsed OD A.ppeal Croo1 Judg1'1eDt. Order: On appeal from a judgment rendered on an
appeal, or from an order, except an order granting or refusing a new
trial, the appellant must furnish the court with a copy of the notice
of appeal, of the judgment or order appealed from, and of papers
used on the hearing in the court below. 

Section 3:188. R~cord Required OD A.ppeal from
Order Granting er Refusing New Trial: On an appeal 
from an order granting or refusing a new trial, the appellant must
furnish the court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the order
appealed from, and of the papers designated in Section 3_528 of this
Code. 

Section 3387. Copies and 1Jodertaking•, how Certi­
fled: The copies provided for in the last three Sections must be
certified to be correct by the clerk or the attorneys, and must be 
accompanied with a certificate of the clerk or attorneys, that m
undertaking on appeal, in due form, has been properly filed or a
stipulation of the parties waiving an undertaking. 

Section 3:ISS. When Appeal may be Di•mi .. ed: If 
the appellant fails to furnish the requisite papers. the appeal may Le
dismissed; but no appeal can be dismissed for insufficiency of the un­
dertaking thereon if a good and sufficient undertaking approved by
a justice of the supreme court, be filed in the supreme court before
the hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal. 

Section 3389. Efrect oC Di•ml••al: The dismissal of an
appeal is in effect an affirmance of the judgment or order appealed 
from, unless the dismissal is expressly made without prejudice to
another appeal. 

Section 3590. What may be Be1'iewed OD A..ppeal 
Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court 
may review the verdict or decision, and any intermediate order or
decision, if excepted to, which involves the merits or necessarily af­
fects the judgment, except a decision or order from which an appeal 
might have been taken. 

Section 191 .. Di•pe•ition, Law Df'termlaed: The
court may reverse, affirm. or modify any order or judgment appealed
from. and may direct the proper judgment or order to be entered, or
direct a new trial or further proceedings to be had. Its judgment
must he remitted to the court from which the appeal was taken. In 
giving a decision. if a new trial be granted, the court shall pass
upon, and determine all the questions of law involved in the case,
presented 'upon such appeal, and necessary to the final determination 
of the case.

Section 3592. Remedial Power8 •f' Appellate Court: 
When the judgment or order is reversed or modified, the appellaie
court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost
hy the erroneous judgment or order. so far as the restitution is 
cons! stent wi th the protection of a purchaser of property at a sale ordered by the judgment. or had under process, issued upon the judg­
ment on the appeal from which the proceedings were not stayed:
and for relief in such cases. the appellant may have his action against
the respondent enforcing the judgment for the proceeds of the sale
of the property, after deducting therefrom the expenses of the sale.
Wht!11 it appears to the appellate court that the appeal was made for
delay, it may add to the cost such damages as may be just. 

Section 3393. Re1nittU11r mu•• be Uer1ified to
Clerk ~~ t)eurt Belo1': When the judgment is rendered upon
the appeal, it must be certified by the clerk of the supreme court to 
the clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed. or the order ap­
pealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the
clerk with whom the roll is filed must attach the certificate to the
judgment roll. and enter a minute of the judgment of the supreme
court on the docket. against the original entry. In cases of appeal
from an order. the clerk must enter at length in the records of the
court the certificate received. and minute against the entry of the
order appealed from. a reference to the certificate, with a brief state­
ment that such order has been affirmed. reversed. or modified by the
supreme court on appeal.

Section 3394. Practice a•d Preceedl•p, Rule• A.p­ 
plieable: The process, provisional remedies, supplementary proceed­
iugs, and the rules of practice and pleading in the probate court, when
the debt or sum claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars, shall
lt the same as in justices' courts ; in all other cases within its civil jur1s, hction, the same as in the district courts, except when other provis­
ioi is made by this Code.

Section 3:193. &ction, where may be Commenced: 
Action tn justices' courts must be commenced, and sub ject to the
right to change the place of trial ( as in this Chapter provided), must
be tried: 
I. If there is no justices' court for the precinct or city in which
the defendant resides, in any city or precinct of the county in which
he resides; 
2. When two or more persons are jointly, or jointly and sever ·
ally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the
same action, and reside in different precincts or different cities of 
the same county. or in different counties, in the precinct or city in
which any of the persons liable may reside; 
3. In cases of injury to the person or property; in the precinct
or city where the injury was committed, or where the defendant re­ 
sides;
4. If for the recovery of personal property, or the value thereof. 
or damages for taking or detaining the same; in the precinct or city
in which the property may be found, or in which the property was
taken, or in which the defendant resides; 
5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county; in any
precinct or city wherein he may be found; 
6. When the defendant is a non-resident of the State in any pre­
cinct or city in the State: 
7. When a person has contracted to perform an obligation at a
particular place and resides in another county, precinct or city; in
the precinct or city in which such obligation is to be performed or
in which he resides: 
8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead without sum­
mons: in any precinct or city in the State; 
9. In all other cases: m the precinct or city in which the defend­
~·nt resides. 

Section 1498. Chan.-e oC Place oC Trial in ~rtaln
Ca8e8: The court may at any time before the trial. on motion.
change the place of trial in the fo11owing cases: 
1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the justice before whom
the action is pending. by affidavit of either party. that such justice 
is a material witness for either party; 
2. When either party makes and files an affidavit that he believes
that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice hy
reason of the interest. prejudice or bias of the justice; 
3. When, from any cause. the justice is disqualified from acting. 

Section 8397. Limitation on the Right 1o Uhange: 
The place of trial cannot be changed in justice's court on motion of
the same party. more than once. upon any or all of the grounds spec­
ified in the first and second subdivisions of the preceding Section. 

Section 3398. To What Court Trao11Cerred: When
the court orders the place of trial to be changed, the action must be 
transferred for trial to a court the parties agree upon; and if they do
not agree, then to the probate court or to another justice's court in
the same county. 

Section 9399. Proceedlns• A.ner Order Cha•glng
Place ot Trial: After an order has been made transferring the
action for trial to another court. the following proceedings must be 
had: 
I. The justice ordering the transfer must immediately transmit
to the clerk of the probate court, or to the justice to whom it is
transferred, on payment of his costs by the party applying, all the
papers in the action. together with a certified transcript from his
docket of the proceedings therein; 
2. Upon the receipt by him of such papers, the clerk or justice
must issue a notice stating when and where the trial will take place,
which must be served upon the parties at least one day before the
time fixed for trial. 

Section 3600. Effe~t oC Order Chanpag Pla~e oC 
Trial: From the time the order changing the place of trial is
made, the court to which the action is thereby transferred has the
same jurisdiction over it as though it had been commenced in such
court. 

Section 3601. Tran•.rer oC Ua•e• t• the Dltttrlct
Court: The parties to an action in a probate or justice's court can­ 
not give evidence upon any question which involves the title or
possession of real property. nor can any issue presenting such ques­
tion be tried by such court; and if it appear from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath. or that of his agent or attorney, that 
the determination of the action will necessarily involve the ques­ 
tion of title or possession to real property. the probate court or ju--­
rice must suspend all further proceedings in the action and certify
the pleadings. and. if any of the pleadings are oral. a transcript , ,i
the same. from his docket to the clerk of the district court of the
county and from the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with
the clerk. the district court has over the action the same jurisdiction
as if it had been commenced therein: Provided, That this Section
shall not be construed to extend to or include actions of forcible
entry, forcible detainer or unlawful detainer. 

Section 3602. A.ction•, how £ommenced : An action
in a justice's court is commenced by filing a complaint. 

Section 3606. Summon• may Issue within oae
Year : The court must indorse on the complaint the date upon
which it was filed. and at any time within one year thereafter the 
plaintifff may have summons issued. 

Section 3804. Defendant may Waive S11mmon•: At
any time after the complaint is filed the defendant may, in writing,
or by appearing and pleading, waive the issuing of summons. 

Section 880:i. Partie• may Appear lo Penon or bJ'
A.ttorn~y: Parties in a justice's court may appear and act in per­ 
son or by attorney; and any person, except the officer by whom the
summons or jury process was served. may act as attorney. 

Section 3808. &ppearanee oC laCant, ln•ne or In­ 
competent Penon: When an infant, insane, or incompetent
person is a party, he must appear either by his general guardian, ii
he have one, or by a guardian ad litem appointed by the justice.
When a guardian ad litem is appointed by the justice, he must be
appointed as follows : 
1. If the infant insane. or incompetent person, be plaintifff, the
appointment must be made before the summons is issued, upon the
application of the infant. if he be of the age of fourteen years; ii 
under that age, or if insane or incompetent upon the application of
a relative or friends. 
2. If the infant, insane or incompetent person, be defendant, the
appointment must be made at the time the summons is returned,
or before the answer, upon the application of the infant, if he be of
the age of fourteen years and apply at or before the summons is re­
turned, if he be under the age of fourteen, or be insane or incom­
petent, or neglect so to apply, then upon the application of a re­
lative or friend, or any other party to the action. or by the justice on 
his own motion. 

Section 3807. Summ•n•, Requir~ment• oC: The
summons must be directed ro the defendant, signed by the justice,
and must contain: 
1. The title of the court, the name of the county, the name of
the precinct or city, in which the action is commenced, and the names
uf the parties thereto; 
2. A sufficient statement of the cause of action, in general terms,
to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him; 
3. A direction that the defandant appear and answer at a time
specified in the summons; 
4. In an acf ion arising on a contract, for the recovery of money
or damages on y, a notice that unless the defendant so appears and
answers, the plaintifff will take judgment for the sum claimed hy him
( stating it) ; 
5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so appears and
answers, the plaintifff will apply to the court for the relief demanded.
If the plaintifff has appeared by attorney, the name of the attorney
must be indorsed on the summons. 

Section 3608. '.rime 01· A.ppearance oC Deteodaat : 
The time specified in the summons for the appearance of the defend­
ant must be as follows : 
1. If an order of arrest is endorsed upon the summons, forth­
with; 
2. In all other cases not less than three nor more than twenty
days from its date. 

Section 3609. A.Ha• Summon•: If the summons is re­
turned without being served upon any or all of the defendants, the
justice, upon the demand of the plaintifff, may issue an alias sum­
mons, in the same form as the original, except that he may fix the
time for the appearance of the defendant at a period not to exceed
ninety <lays from its date. 
The justice may within a year from the date of the tiling of the
complaint, issue as many alias summons as may be demanded by the
plaintifff. 

Section 3610. Sum1noos, Limitatiou on Nerw-ice of':
The summons cannot be served out of the county in which the action 
is brought, except where the action is brought upon a joint contract,
or obligation of two or more persons who· reside in different coun­
ties, and the summons has been served upon the defendant, resident of
the county in which case the summons may be served upon the other
defendants out of the county; and except, also, when an action is
brought against a party who has contracted in writing to perform an
obligation at a particular place, and resides in a different county, in
which case summons may be served in the county where he resides.
\ Vhen the defendant resides in the county, the summons cannot be
served within two days of the time fixed for the appearance of the
defendant; when he resides out of the county, and the summons is
served out of the county, the summons cannot be served within
twenty days of such time. 

Section 3811. ~ummoos, by whom and laow~ 8erved: 
The summons in the cases mentioned in the preceding Section may
be served by a sheriff or constable of any of the counties of this
State; Provided, That when a summons issued by a justice of the
peace, is to he served out of the county in which it was issued, the
summons shall have attached to it a certificate under seal by the clerk 
of the district court of such county, to the effect that the person issu­
ing the same was an acting justice of the peace at the date of the
summons; or the summons may be served by any male resident over
the age of twenty-one years, not a party to the suit.. within the
county where the action is brought and must be served and returned
as provided in actions commenced in the district court; or it may be
served by publication and the Sections of this Code providing for the
publication of summons issued out of the district court are applicable
to the probate and justices' courts. the necessary changes and substi­
tutions being made therein. 

Section 361~. Hour Cor A.ppearanee : The parties are
entitled to one hour in which to appear after the time fixed in the
summons, but are not bound to remain longer than the time unless
both parties have appeared, and the justice heing present, is engaged
in the trial of another cause.

Section 3613. Form oC Pleading•: Pleadings 111 justices' 
courts: 
1. Are not required to be in any particular form, but must be
such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what
is intended ; 
2. May, except the complaint, be oral or in writing;
3. Need not be verified, unless otherwise provided m this Code ~
4. If in writing, must be filed with the justice; 
o- 1 f oral. an entry of their substance must be made in the docket. 

Section 3614. Pleading•: The pleadings arc: 
1. The complaint by the plaintifff; 
.2. The demurrer to the complaint;
3. The answer by the defendant; 
-+· The demurrer to the answer. 

Section 3813. Uomplaiot Deftned: The complaint in
these courts is a concise statement, in writing. of the facts constitur­ 
ing the plaintifff's cause of action; or a copy of the account, note,
bill, bond, or instrument upon which the action is based. 

Section 3818. Demurrer to Complaint: The defend­
ant may, at any time before answering, demur to the complaint.

Section 3817. A.nswer, what may Contain: The an­
answer may contain a denial of any or all of the material facts stated
in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue; also a
statement in a plain and direct manner, of any other facts constitu­
ting a defense or counterclaim, upon which an action might be 
brought by the defendant against the plaintifff in that court. 

Section 3818. 01niHion to 8et 1Jp Counter Claim,
Effe~t: If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim in the cases
mentioned in the last Section, neither he or his assignee can after­
wards maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore.

Section 3819. When Plaintiff may Demur te A.n­
•wer: When the answer contains new matter in avoidance, or con­
stituting a defense or a counterclaim, the plaintifff may, at any
time before the trial, demur to the same for insufficiency, stating
therein the grounds for such demurrer.

Section 8"0. Pr•ceedioss on Demurrer: The pro­
ceedings on demurrer are as follows : 
1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained, the plaintifff
may, within such time. not exceeding two days. as the court allows,
amend his complaint; 
2. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled. the defendant
may answer forthwith; 
3. If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the defendant may
amend his answer within such time, not exceeding two days. as the
court may allow; 
4. If the demurrer to an answer is overruled the action must pr.i­
ceed as if no demurrer had heen interposed. 

Section 38~1. A.mendment of' Pleadin&"•: Either party
mav, at anv time before the conclusion of the trial, amend anv plead­
ing: but i { the amendment is made after the issue. and it appears to 
the satisfaction of the court, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary
to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, an ad­ 
journment must be granted. The court may also, in its discretion,
when an adjournment will, by the amendment, be rendered neces­
sary, require as a condition to the allowance of such amendment,
made after issue joined, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to
be fixed by the court, not exceeding twenty dollars. The court may
also, on such terms as may be just, and on payment of costs, relieve a
party from a judgment by default taken against him by his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; but the application for
such relief must be made within ten days after the entry of the judg­
ment, and upon an affidavit showing good cause therefore. 

Section 38~9. il.aHrer on De•urrer to A.mended
Pleadin&•: When a pleading is amended, the adverse party may
answer or demur to it within such time, not exceeding two days, as 
the court may allow. 

Section 38~3. Order 01· A.rr~•t oa· Defendant : An or­
der to arrest the defendant may be indorse<l on a summons issued out 
of a justice's court. and the defendant may be arrested thereon by
the sheriff or constable. at the time of serving the summons, and
brought before the justice, and there detained until duly discharge<l,
in the following cases: 
cause of action arising upon contract when the defendant is about i» 
depart from the State, with intent to defraud his creditors; 
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money or property em­
bezzled or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use by one
who received it in a fiduciary capacity; 
3. \Vhen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought; 
4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or disposed • >f 
his property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
But no female can be arrested in any action. 

Section 38~4. Order E:secuted in any Part of" State: 
In cases under the first subdivision of the last Section, or when the
defendant is about to depart from the State. the order of arrest may
be executed, and the defendant arrested in any part of the State. 

Section 1. A.ftidavit and 1Jndertakin1 for Order
of" A.rrest: Before an order for an arrest can be made, the 
party applying must prove to the satisfaction of the justice by the
affidavit of himself, or some other person. the facts upon which the 
app]ication is founded. The plaintifff must also · execute and file a 
written undertaking in the sum of three hundred dollars, with sui­ 
ficient sureties. to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all costs
that may he adjudged to the defendant. and all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the arrest. if the same be wrongful, or 
without sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the un­
dertaking. 

Section 39g&. Delfendant mu1t be Take• BeCore a
.Justice Immediately: The defendant, immediately upon be­
ing arrested. must he taken to the office of the justice who made the
order. and if he is absent or unable to try the action. or if it appears
to him by the affidavit of the defendant that he is a material witness
in the action. the officer must immediately take the defendant before
another justice of the precinct or city. if there is another. and if not
then before the just ice 11f an adjoining precinct or city. who must 
take jurisdiction of the action, and proceed thereon. as if the sum­
mons had been issued and the order of arrest made by him. 

Section 3897'. Officer mu•t liYe Notice to Plaintiff: 
The officer making the arrest must immediately give notice thereof
to the plaintifff. or his attorney or agent, and indorse op the sum­
mons, and subscribe a certificate. stating the time of serving the
same, the time of the arrest. an<l of his giving notice to the plaintifff~ 

Section 3898. Officer muet Detain Def'endant : The
officer making the arrest must keep the defendant in custody until he
is discharged by order of the court. 

Section 3899. Writ oC Attachment Shall IHue
open A.OldaYit: A writ. to attach the property of the defendant 
must be issued by the justice at the time of, or after issuing sum­
mons and before answer. on receiving an affidavit by or on behalf oi 
the plaintifff, showing the same facts as are required to be shown by
the affidavit for attachment out of the district court.

Section 3830. IJndertaking en A1tachn1ent mu•t be 
Required: Defore issuing a writ. the justice must require ct 
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff. with two or more
sufficient sureties. in a sum not less than fifty nor more than three
hundred dollars, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgement
the plaintifff will pay all costs that may he awarded to the defendant.
and a11 damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment.
not exceeding- the sum specified in the undertaking. 

Section 3881. Writ or A.ttachment, S11bstaoce of·: 
The writ may be directed to the sheriff or any constable of the
county. or the sheriff of any other county. and must require him t.-:-, 
attach and safely keep a11 the property of the defendant within his
county not exempt from execution. or so much thereof as may be 
sufficient to satisfy the plaintifffs demand, the amount of which
must be stated in conformity with the complaint. unless the defend. 
ant give him security by the undertaking- of two sufficient sureties.
in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demand besides costs, in which
case to take such undertaking, 

Section 383'1. Certain Provi•ion• oC Code A.pply to: 
The Sections of this Oode providing for attachments out of the dis­
trict court, except as in this Chapter expressly provided, are applica ble to attachments issued out of justices' courts, the necessary changes 
and substitutions being made therein. 

Section 3833. Hew Claim and Delivery Ent'er~ed:
In an action to recover possession of personal property, the plaintifff
may at the time of issuing summons or at any time thereafter before
answer, claim the delivery of such property to him : and the Sections 
of this Code providing the practice in proceedings for claim and de­
livery of personal property in the district court are applicable to like
proceedings in justices' court. the necessary changes and substitu­
tions being made therein.

Section 3834. Time when Trial m11st be C,ommen~ed: 
Unless postponed as provided in this Chapter, or unless transferred
to another court. the trial of the action must commence at the ex­ 
piration of one hour from the time specified in the summons for the
appearance of defendant, and the trial must he continued. without
adjournment for more than twenty-four hours at any one time. until 
a11 the issues therein are disposed of.

Section 38:1:i. Postponement on Court's own Motion: 
The court may, of its own motion, postpone the trial: 
r. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time fix~ by law or by
an order of the court for the trial. the court is engaged in the trial of
another action ; 
2. For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment of the
pleadings, of the a11owance of time to make such amendment or to
plead, a postponement is rendered necessary; 
3. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon issues of
fact, and a jury has been demanded. 

Section 3838. Po•tponeme•t by Con.eat: The court
may. by consent of the parties. given in writing or in open court ..
postpone the trial to a time agreed upon by the parties. 

Section 3837'. Po•tponement on ~pplicatien ot a
Party: The trial may be postponed upon the application of either
party for a period not exceeding four months : 
1. The party making the application must prove, by his own
oath or otherwise. that he cannot, for want of material testimony,
which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial, and must show
in what respect the testimony expected is material. and that he has
used due diligence to procure it. and has been unable to do so; 
2. If the app1ication is on the part of the plaintifff, and the de­
fendant is under arrest. a postponement for more than three hours
discharges the defendant from custody, but the action may proceed
notwithstanding, and the defendant is subject to arrest on execution,
in the same manner as if he had not been discharged; 
~· If the application is on the part of a defendant under arrest,
before it can he granted he must execute an undertaking, with two or
more sufficient sureties. to be approved by. and in a sum to be fixed
by. the court. to the effect that he will render himself amenable to
the process of the court <luring the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein or that the
sureties will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment whicn
he may recover in the action. not exceeding the amount specified in
the undertaking. On filing the undertaking specified in this subdivision, the court must order the defendant to be discharged from
custody; 
4. The party making the application must. if required by the
adverse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of such ad­ 
verse party. who is in attendance. may be then taken by deposition be­
fore the court, and that the .. testimony so taken may be read on the
trial with the same effect. and subject to the same objections as if 
the witness was produced: but the court may require the party mak­
ing the application to state, upon affidavit. the evidence which he
expects to obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon admits that
such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually
given on the trial or offered and overruled as improper. the trial
must not be postponed, 

Section 3838. Continuance Exceeding Ten Day11, 
Vonditioas in Force, Effect of1 No adjournment must, un­
less by consent. be granted for a period longer than ten days, upon
the application of either party, except upon condition that such party
file an undertaking in an amount fixed by the court. with two sureties,
to be approved by the court. to the effect that they will pay to the op­
posite party the amount of any judgment which may be recovered
against the party applying. not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking. 

Section 3839. 1 .. ue Defined, Kinds: Issues at rse upon 
the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained bv the
one party and is controverted hy the other. They are of two kinds: 
1. Of Jaw; and 
2. Of fact. 

Section 3840. )Hue oCLaw, hew Rai8~d: An issue of 
Jaw arises upon a demurrer to the complaint or answer. or to some
part thereof. 

Section 3841. ls8ue of· Fad, how Rai8~d: An issue of 
fact arises : 
I. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted hv
the answer; and, 
2. Upon new matter in the answer. except an issue of law i~ 
joined thereon. 

Section 384". IHue of· IAaw·, ho"· Tri~d: An issue of
law must be tried by the court. 

Section 384:1. bwue oC Fad, bow· Tried : . \ n issue nf 
fact must be tried by a jury. unless a jury is waived. in which case
it must be tried by the court. 

Section 3844. .Jury, how Waived: 
waived:
T. By the consent of parties. entered in the docket: 
2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury hefore the com­
mencement of the trial of an issue of fact
3. By the failure of either party to appear at the time fixed for the
trial of an issue of fact. 

Section 3843. Either Party Failing to Appear: H
either party fails to appear at the time fixed for trial, the trial may 
proceed at the request of the adverse party. 

Section 38,18. Challeagn to .Juron: The challenges are
either peremptory or for cause. Each party is entitled to three per­
emptory challenges. Each party may challenge for cause on any
grounds set forth as grounds of such challenge in the district court.
Challenges for cause must be tried by the court.

Section 3847. Manner of"Productloa of Wrlttea In­
•troment: When the cause of action or counterclaim arises upon
an account or instrument for the payment of money only, the court, at
any time before the trial, may, by an order under his hand, require
the original to be exhibited to the inspection of, and a copy to ht! 
furnished, to the adverse party, at such time as may be fixed in the or­
der ; or, if such order is not obeyed, the account or instrument can­
not be given in evidence.

Section 3848. Ir Copy or la•trument Filed, Sig­
nature• Deemed Admitted : If the plaintifff annex to his
complaint or file with the court at the time of issuing the summons,
the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or
other written obligation for the payment of money; upon which the
action is brought, the defendant is deemed to admit the genuineness
of the signatures of the makers. indorsers, or assignors thereof, un­
less he specifically deny the same in his answer. and verify the answer 
by his oath. 

Section 3G49. Judgment w·hen DeCeodaot Fails to
A.ppear; When the defendant fails to appear and answer or demur
at the time specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter.
the court must hear the evidence offered by the plaintifff, and must
render judgment in his favor for such a sum ( not exceeding the 
amount stated in the summons), as appears by such evidence to be
just. 

Section 3830. Judgment Against DeCendant on De­
murrer: In the fol1owing cases the same proceedings must be had. 
and judgment must be rendered in like manner, as if the defendant
had failed to appear and answer or demur: 
I. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant fail t·J 
answer it as amended, within the time allowed by the court; 
2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled, and the defendant
fails to answer at once; 
J. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained, and the defendant
fails to amend the answer within the time allowed by the court. 

Section 3831. Jud&"ment by Conre.slon: Judgments
upon confession may be entered in any justice's court specified in the 
confession. in any amount of which the court has jurisdiction. 

Section 38:J~. Judcment, Dit1missal: Judgment that the
action be dismissed, without prejudice to a new action. may be en­ 
tered with costs, in the following cases: 
r. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is
finally submitted ; 
2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons,
or at the time to which the action has been postponed, or within one 
hour thereafter:
3. When. after a demurrer to the complaint has been sustained, 
the plaintifff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court;
4. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence. 
that the action is brought in the wrong county, or precinct. or city:
but if the objection is taken and overruled. it is cause only of re­ 
versal on appeal. and does not otherwise invalidate the judgment: if 
not taken at the trial it is waived. 

Section 88:18. .Jod~•e•t upon Verdict: When a trial
by jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the court at once.
in conformity with the verdict.

Section 88114. .Judpnent after Trial by the Court:
When the trial is by the court, judgment must be entered at the
close of the trial.

Section 3833. .Joda-ment, hew Entered: The judgment
must be entered substantially in the form required by this Code. 

Section 3838. When Def'endant Subject to A.rrnt:
When the judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is sub­ 
ject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact that the defendant
is so subject must be stated in the judgment. 

Section 8837. Som Exceeding Jorl•dlctlon, Exce•• 
may be Remitted: When the amount found due to either party
exceed the sum for which the court is authorized to enter judgment, 
such party may remit the excess, and judgment may be rendered for
the residue.

Section 8838. Offer to CelDproml•e BeCore Trial:
If the defendant, at any time before the trial. offer in writing to
allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the
plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with the costs
then accrued ; but if he do not accept such off er before the trial, and 
fail to recover in the action a sum in excess of the offer, he cannot
recover costs; but costs must be adjudged against him. and if he
recover, be deducted from his recovery. The offer and failure l') 
accept cannot be given in evidence, nor affect the recovery other­
wise than as to costs. 

Section 38:59. V••t• Ta:sed Included In .J11d1D1ent: 
The court must tax and include in the judgment the costs allowed
by 1\w to the prevailing party. 

Section 8888. A.bstract of" .Judsmeot: The probate
court or justice of the peace. on the demand of a party in whose
favor judgment is rendered. must give him an abstract of the judg­
ment in the fo1lowing form ( fi11ing blanks according to the facts) : 
State of Idaho, County of plaintifff,
vs , defendant, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . In probate Court of County. (or. In Justice Court, before : .
Justice of the Peace, of Precinct, or City), . 
I 9 .... , . . . . ( insert date of abstract). Judgment entered for plaintiff ( or defendant) for dollars, on the day of, , 
19 ....
I certify that the foregoing is a correct abstract of a judgment 
rendered in said action in my court, or ( as the case may be) in the
court of .... , justice of the peace, as appears by his docket, now in
my possession. as his succesor in office, signed by the clerk of the
probate court and attested by its seal, or signed by the justice. as the
case may be.

Section 3881. A.b8trad Filed and Doeketed in ~•~rk'•
Office: The abstract may be filed and docketed in the office of the
district clerk of the county in which the judgment was rendered,
and must be docketed in the judgment docket of the district court.
The time of the receipt of the abstract by the clerk must be noted 
hy him thereon. and entered in the docket. 

Section 3889. EO-ect et Docketio~: From the time of
docketing in the district clerk's office. execution may be issued
thereon by the district clerk to the sheriff of any county in the State.
in the same manner and with like effect as if issued on judgments ,)f
the district courts. 

Section 3883. Judgment not a Lien IJnleH A.b8trad
Docketed: A judgment rendered in a probate or justice's court
creates no lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless such an ab­
stract is filed and docketed in the office of the clerk of the district
court of the county in which the lands are situated. When so filed 
and docketed. such )udgm(nt is a lien upon the lands of the judg- 
ment debtor situated in that connty, not exempt from execution
owned by him at the time, or which he may afterwards, and before 
the lien expires acquire. The lien continues for two years, unless
the judgment be previously satisfied. 

Section 3884. Execution may 1 .. ue within Fh'e
Y ean: Execution for the enforcement of a judgment may be issued
by the clerk of the probate court under the seal of the court, or by
the justice who entered the judgment, or his successor in office, on
the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within five
years from the entry of judgment. 

Section 3883. Execution, Conteat• ot·: The executions
must be directed to the sheriff or to a constable of the county, and 
must be subscribed by the clerk or justice and bear date the day of its
delivery to the officer. It must intelligibly refer to the judgment,
by stating the names of the parties and the name of the court or
justice before whom, and of the county where, and the time when
it was rendered; the amount of judgment if it be for money; and if 
less than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must
contain in like cases, similar directions to the sheriff or constable as
are required in executions issued from the district court. 

Section 3888. Renewal ot Ex~cution: An execution
may, at the request of the judgment creditor be renewed before the 
expiration of the time fixed for its return, by the word "renewal"
written thereon, with the date thereof, and subscribed by the clerk or
justice. Such renewal has the effect of an original issue, and may
be repeated as often as necessary. If an execution is returned un­
satisfied, another may be afterwards issued.

Section 8887. Duty oC omeer Receiving Es.et~utiea:
The sheriff or constable to whom the execution is directed must ex­ 
cute the same in the same manner as the sheriff is required to proceed
upon execution directed to him; and the constable, when the execution
is dircted to him, is vested for that purpose with all the powers of the
'sheriff. 

Section 3888. Certain Provi•lon• made .A.ppli~able:
The provisions of this Code as to proceedings supplementary to ex­
ecution in the district court are applicable to probate and justices'
courts, the necessary changes and substitutions being made therein. 

Section 3889. Centempt•, may Puni•h Cor: A probate
judge or justice may punish as for contempt, persons guilty of the
following acts, and no other: 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior towards the
judge or justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial proceeding; 
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturb·
ance in the presence of the judge or justice, or in the immediate
vicinity of the court held by him, tending to interrupt the due course
of a trial or other judicial proceeding; 
3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a lawful order
or process, made or issued by him; 
4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be 
sworn or to answer as a witness;
5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an officer 
by virtue of an order or process in the court held by him. 

Section 8870. Proceeding• Cor Contempt, bef'oft
.Judge: When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the judge or justice, it may be punished summarily; 
to that end an order must be made reciting the facts as they occurred,
and adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of
contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. 

Section 1871. Proceeding• Cor Centempt: When the
contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of 
the judge or justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued by such judge
or justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and broughc
before the judge or justice immediately, when an opportunity to be
heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The judge or justice
may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offense. 

Section 187g. Pooi8hment• f'or Contempt: The judge
or justice may punish for contempts by fine or imprisonment, or both, 
such fine not to exceed, in any case, one hundred dollars, and such
imprisonment one day. 

Section 187:1. Conviction 1nu•t be Eo1ered in Docket: 
The conviction specifying particularly the offense and the judgment
thereon, must be entered in the docket. 

Section 187 4. Docket, what to Ceotaio: Every pro­
bate court and justice must keep a book denominated a "docket." in
which must be entered: 
1. The title of every action or proceeding; 
2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a sum of money
he claimed, the amount thereof; 
3. The date of the summons and the time of its return and if ail 
order to arrest the defendant be made. or a writ of attachment he
issued. a statement of the fact; 
4. The time when the parties. or either of them appear. of their
non-appearance. if default be made; a minute of the pleadings and 
motions: if in writing, referring to them; if not in writing. a concise 
statement of the material parts of the pleading;
~- Every adjournment, stating on whose application and to what 
time; 
6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and
by whom made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for
the return of the jury and for the trial; 
7. The names of the jurors who appear and are sworn, and the
names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request; 
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disa­
gree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge; 
9. The judgment of the court specifying the costs included and
the time when rendered ; 
10. The issuing of the execution, when issued, and to whom;
the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a statement of any 
money paid to the court, when and by whom; · 
I I. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given, and of the
appeal bond, if any be filed. 

Section 367~. Entrie•, Primary ETidenee oC the
Fact: The several particulars of the last Section specified must be
entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and ( un­
less otherwise in this Code provided), at the time when thy occur.
Such entries in a probate or justice's docket, or a transcript thereof,
certified by the clerk or justice, or his successor in office, are primary
evidence of the fact stated.

Section 3878. Index to Docket m11•t be Kt'!pt: The 
clerk of the probate court and every justice of the peace must. keep
an alphabetical index to his docket, in which must be entered the
names of the parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page
of entry. The names of the plaintifff must be entered in the index,
in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the family name. 

Section 3677. l'1u8t DellTer Records, ere., to Suc­
ce•1or: Every probate judge and every justice of the peace upou 
the expiration of his term of office, must deposit with his scucessor,
his official dockets, statutes, and session laws, and all other books,
papers and documents pertaining to his office, as well his own as
those of his predecessor, or any other which may be in his custody to
be kept as public records.

Section 3678. Ne&"lect to Deliver Record• to Succew­
wor, Penalty: Every probate judge and every justice of the peace
whose duty it is to deliver over the dockets, books, records, and pa­
pers as prescribed in Section 3677, shall forfeit and pay, for the 
use of the county, twenty-five dollars, for every three months neg­
lect, after due demand in writing by his successor in office, to per­
form such duty, which sum may be recovered at the suit of any per­
son. The sum so recovered shall be paid into the current expense
fund of the county. 

Section 3879. Preceedlns•, o•ce Vacant, SucceNer
aot A.ppoin1ed: If the office of justice becomes vacant by his 
death or removal from the precinct or city or otherwise, before his
successor is elected and qualified, the docket, and papers in possession
of such justice must be deposited in the office of some other justice
in the precinct, to be by him delivered to the successor of such jus­
tice. If there is no other justice in the precinct, then the docket
and papers of such justice must be deposited in the office of the
county recorder of the county, to be by him delivered to the succes­
sor in office of the justice. 

Section 3880. 1'1ay l••ue Proce•• open Beckel •C 
Iii• Predecea11or: Any probate judge having the docket of his
predecessor, and any justice with whom the docket of his predeces­
sor, or of any other justice, is deposited, has and may exercise over
all actions and proceedings entered in such docket, the same juris­
diction as if originally commenced before him. In case of the crea­
tion of a new county, or the change of the boundary between two
counties, any justice into whose hands the docket of a justice for­
merly acting as such within the same territory may come, is, for the
purposes of this Section, considered the successor of such former
justice.

Section 38SI. 8ucce••or oC a .Ju•tl~e, who 8hall be 
Deemed: The justice elected to fill a vacancy is the successor of
the justice whose office became vacant before the expiration of a 
full term. When a full term expires, the same or another person
elected to take office in the same precinct or city, from that time is 
the successor. 

Section 3682. Two .Ju•tlcea Equally Entitled; Pr•·
bate .Judse Detlipate•: \Vhen two or more justices are equally
entitled, under the last Section, to be deemed the successors in office
of the justice, the probate judge must by a certificate subscribed by
him and filed in the office of the county recorder, designate which
justice is the successor of a justice going out of office, or whose of­ 
fice has become vacant. 

Section 3883. Appeal Crom .Judgment: Any party dis­ 
satisfied with a judgment rendered in a civil action in a probate or
justice's court, may appeal therefrom to the district court of the
county, at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the
judgment. The appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the
justice or judge, and serving a copy on the adverse party. The no­
tice must state whether the appeal is taken from the whole or a part
of the judgment, and if from part, what part, and whether the appeal
is taken on questions of law or fact, or both. 

Section 1884. A.ppeal. Quntloa oC Law, 8tatemeat
Required: When a party appeals to the district court on questions of 
law alone, unless the question arises upon the pleadings or files in the
action, or appears from the docket of the court, he must, within ten
days from the rendition of judgment prepare a statement of the case,
and file the same with the justice or judge. The statement must
contain the grounds upon which the party intends to rely on the
appeal, and so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
grounds and no more. With ten days after he receives notice that
the statement is filed, the adverse party if dissatisfied with the same,
may file amendments. The proposed statement and amendments must
be settled by the justice or judge, and if no amendment be filed, the
original statement stands as adopted. The .statement thus adopted,
or as settled by the justice or judge, with a copy of the docket of the
justice or judge, and all motions filed with him by the parties during
the trial, and the notice of appeal, may be used on the hearing of the
appeal before the district court.

Section 3883. A.ppeal upon Que•tion• 01· Fact: When
a party appeals to the district court on questions of fact, or on ques­
tions of both law and fact, no statement need be made, but the
action be tried anew in the district court.

Section 1888. Tran•miHlon or the Ca•e, Record Re­
quired: Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on payment of
the fees of the court or justice and filing an undertaking as required
in the next Section, and after settlement or adoption of statement, if 
any, the clerk or justice must, within five days, transmit to the clerk
of the district court. if the appeal be on questions of law alone, the
pleadings and files in the action. a certified copy of his docket, the
statement, if any, as admitted or as settled, the notice of appeal 
and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal be on questions of fact,
or both law and fact, a certified copy of his docket, the pleadings, all
notices, motions, and other papers filed in the cause, the notice of ap­
peal and the undertaking filed and the justice or judge may be com­
pelled by the district court, by an order entered upon motion, to trans­ 
mit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to trans.
mit the same. A certified copy of such order may be served on the jus­
tice or judge by the party or his attorney. In the district court, either
party may have the benefit of all legal objections made in probate or
justices' courts. And the district court has the same power to grant
relief by amendment and otherwise, as in actions commenced in the 
district court. 

Section 3887. 1Jodertalda~ on A.ppeal, Ju•tiftca1ioo 
oC Suretin: An appeal from a justice's or probate court is not
effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or
more sureties, in the SUllJ of one hundred dollars, for the payment of
the costs on the appeal; or, if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in 1. 
sum equal to twice the amonut of the judgment, including costs,
when the judgment is for the payment of money; or twice the value
of the property, including costs, when the judgment is for the re­
covery of specific personal property, and must be conditioned, when
the action is for the recovery of money, that the appellant will pay
the amount of the judgment appealed from and all costs, if the ap­
peal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment, and
all costs that may be recovered against him in the action in the dis­
trict court. \Vhen the action is for the recovery of specific personal
property, the undertaking must be conditioned that the appellant
will pay the judgment and costs appealed from, and obey the order
of the court made therein, if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed,
or any judgment and costs that may be recovered against him in said
action in the district court, and will obey any order made by the
court therein. When the judgment appealed from directs the deliv­
ery of possession of real property, the execution of the same can­
not be stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part
of the appellant. with two or more sureties, to the effect that during
the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not com­
mit or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the
appeal be dismissed or withdrawn, or the judgment affirmed, • or
judgment be recovered against him in the action in the district court.
he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property from
the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof; or that 
he will pay any judgment and costs that may be recovered against
him in said action in the district court, not exceeding the sum to he 
fixed by the judge or justice of the court from which the appeal is tak­
en, and which sum must be specified in the undertaking. A deposit
of the amount of the judgment. including all costs appealed from, or
of the value of the property including all costs in actions for the re­
covery of specific personal property, with the justice or judge. is
equivalent to the filing of the undertaking; and in such cases the jus­
tice or judge must transmit the money to the clerk of the district court,
to be by him paid out on the order of the court. The adverse party
may except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five days after
the filing of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties jus­ 
tify before the justice or judge from whom the appeal is taken. with­
in five days thereafter. upon notice to the adverse party. to the
amounts stated in their affidavits, the appeal must he regarded as if no
such undertaking had been given. 

Section 3888. On Fllln1r 1Jndertaktn.-~ Eieeotl••
Stayed: If an execution he issued. on the filing- of the undertaking 
staying proceedings. the iustice or judge must. by order. direct the
officer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such officer must. upon
payment of his fees for services rendered on the execution. thereupon
relinquish all property levied upon and deliver the same to the judg­
ment debtor, together with all monies collected from sales or other­
wise. If his fees he not paid. the officer may retain so much of the
property or proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the same. 

Section 3889. 1'1i~eellaneout11 ProYlslons on Trial•: 
Poon an appeal on questions of law alone. the district court mav
review all orders affecting- the jud~eni appealed from, and mar ~ 
aside, or confirm, or modify any or all of the proceedings subsequent
to and dependent upon such judgment, and may, if necessary or
proper, order a new trial in the district court. When the action is
tried anew on appeal, the trial must be conducted in all respects as
trials in the district court. The provisions of this Code as to chang­ 
ing the place of trial, and all the provisions as to trial in the district
court, are applicable to trials on appeal in the district court. For a
failure to prosecute on appeal, or unnecessary delay in bringing it to
a hearing, the district court. after notice, may order the appeal to
be dismissed with costs; and if it appear to such court that the ap­
peal was made solely for delay, it may add to the costs such dam­
ages as may be just. not exceeding twenty-five percent of the judg­
ment appealed from. Judgments rendered in the district court on
appeal have the same force and effect, and may be enforced in the
same manner as judgments in actions commenced in the district court. 

Section 8890. Proce .. IHued to any Part of" County:
Subpoenas ·out 9£ any probate or justice's court, and final process on 
any judgment recovered therein, may be issued to any part of the
county. 

Section 8891. Bla•k• mu•t he Fiiied: The summons, ex­
ecution, and every other paper made or issued by a probate court or
justice. except a subpoena, must be issued without a blank left to be
fi11ed by another, otherwise it is void. 

Section :1899. .Juetlce to RecelYe all Money• f"el·
lected: Probate judges and justices of the peace must receive from
the sheriff's or constables of their county, all monies collected on any
process or order issued from their courts respectively, and all monies
paid to them in their official capacity, and must pay the same over
to the parties entitled or authorized to receive them. without delay. 

Section 3893. Disability •C .Ju•tltt, Anether may
A.ttend: In case of the sickness or other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice. on a return of a summons or at the time ap­
pointed for a trial. another justice of the same precinct or city may,
at his request. attend in his behalf. and thereupon is vested with the
power. for the time being, of the justice before whom the summons
was returnable. In that case. the proper entry of proceedings before
the attending justice subscribed by him. must be made in the docket
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. If the case
,~ adjourned. the justice before whom the summons was returnable
may resume jurisdiction. 

Section 3894. Security fer f"•t•: Probate and justices ·
courts may in all cases require a deposit of money or an undertaking. 
as security for costs of court, before issuing a summons. 

Section 8893. CNt•: The prevailing party in probate and
justices' courts is entitled to costs of the action and also 'of any pro­
ceedings taken by him in aid of an execution, issued upon any .judg­
ment recovered therein. 

Section 8898. ProYl•l•n• oC Code A.ppll~able: The
probate courts in the exercise of their civil jurisdiction, and justices'
courts, being courts of peculiar and limited jurisdiction, only those
provisions of this Code which are, in their nature, applicable to the
organization. powers. and course of proceedings in these courts, or 
which have been made applicable by special provisions in this Code,
are applicable to these courts and the proceedings therein. 

Section 8897. DepNlt la Lieu or IJndertakintr: Ju 
all civil cases arising in probate and justices' courts, where an under­
taking is required by this Code, a deposit with the court of a sum
of money equal to the amount of the required undertaking, may he
received and held by the court in place of said undertaking. 

Section 8898. Par1ie8 no1 Summoned may be A..R~r
Jodgmeat: When a judgment is recovered against one or more
of several persons jointly indebted upon an obligation. by proceed·
ing as provided in Section 3 I 97. those who were not originally 
served with the summons. and did not appear to the action, may h~
summoned to show cause why they should not be hound by the judg­
ment in the same manner as though they had been originally served
with the summons. 

Section :1899.. 8ummon8 In that Cast". Requisite•,
how Served: The summons. as provided in the last Section.
must describe the judgment. and require the person summoned to
show cause whv he should not he bound by it. and must be served
in the ~ame manner, and returnable within the same time as the
original sumrnow It is not necessary to file a new complaint. 

Section 8700. A.tlldavlt to A.ccompany Mummon•: 
The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of the plaintifff, 
his agent, representative or attorney, that the judgment, or some
part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due
thereon.

Section 8'701. A.nHYer, when Filed. De~n•e: Upon
such summons the defendant may answer within the time specified
therein. denying the judgment or setting up any defense which' 
may have arisen subsequently, except a discharge from liability bv
the statute of limitations: or he may deny his liability on the obliga­
tion upon which the judgment was recovered. 

Section 8'709. What Con•tltute the Pleading•: If the
defendant in his answer, deny the judgment. or set up any defense
which may have arisen subsequently, the summons with the affidavits
annexed. and the answer constitute the written allegations in the
case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judg­
ment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment,
the rummons with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute
such written allegations. 

Section 3'708. l••ue•, hew Tried. Verdict: The issues
formed may. be tried as in other cases, but when the defendant de- 
. nies in his answer. any liability on the obligation upon which the 
judgment was rendered. if a verdict be found against him, it must
be for not exceeding the amount remaining unsatisfied on such orig­
inal judgment, with interest thereon. 

Section 3704. Offer ot DrCendant to Uompromi•e: 
The defendant in any action may, at any time before the trial or
judgment. serve upon the plaintifff an offer to allow judgment to be
taken against him for the sum or property. or to the effect therein
specified. If the plaintifff accept the offer. and give notice thereof
within five days. he may file the offer. with proof of notice of accept­
ance and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly. Ii
the notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is to be deemed with­
d ra wn, and cannot he given in evidence upon the trial; and H the
plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment. he cannot recover
costs accruing subsequently to the offer. hut must pay the defend­
ant's costs from the time of the offer. 

Section 3703. Party may Demand ln•peetien and
Copy: Any court in which an action is pending. or a judge there­
of, may. upon notice, order either party to give to the other, within
a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a
copy. of entries of account in any book, or of any document, or paper 
in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating
to the merits of the action. or the defense therein. If compliance
with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book. docu­
ment. or paper from being given in evidence: or, if wanted as evi­
dence hy the party applying. may direct the jury to presume them
to he such as he alleges them to be and the court may also punish
the party refusing. for a contempt. This Section is not to be construed
to prevent a party from compe11ing another to produce books, papers,
or documents when he is examined as a witness. 

Section 3706. Order and Motion D~flned: Everv di.
rcction of a court or judge. made or entered in writing. and not in­
cluded in a judgment. is denominated an order. An application foe 
;111 order is a motion. 

Section 3707. lffotioo8 and Order~, where 1'1ade: 
Motions may be made in the county in which the action is pending, 
or in any county in the same judicial district. Orders made out of
court may ~e made by the judge of the court in any part of the · 
State. 

Section 3708. :Notice of"1'1otion: When a written notice 
of a motion is required by this Code, it must be given, unless a
different time is prescribed, if the hearing is had in the same district
in which the action is pending or the proceeding had, five days be­
fore the time appointed for the hearing; otherwise. ten days. When
the notice is served by mail, the number of days before the hearing
must be increased one day for every twenty-five miles of distance be­ 
tween the place of deposit and the place of service; such increase, 
however. not to exceed in alt thirty days; but the court or judge may
prescribe a shorter time. Copies of all the moving papers, except,
records of the court and files in the action. must be served with the
notice, or with an order to show cause. But no written notice of
any motion affecting the pleadings or for judgment, or of any mo­
tion made during the progress of the trial shall be required. 

Section 3709. Tran•f9~r o, 1'1otion• and Ordf'n to
Show ~aoflle: When a notice of motion is given, or an order to
show cause is made returnable before a judge out of court, and at
the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of the order, the
judge is unable to hear the parties. the matter may be continued or
transferred by his order to some other judge. 

Section 3710. Order oC Payment o, Money, how
Ea,or~ed: \Vhenever an order for the payment of a sum of money
is made by a court or judge pursuant to the provisions of this Code,
it may be enforced by execution in the same manner as if it were ;i 
judgment. 

Section 8711. When and how SerY~d: The service of
notice or other paper may be personal, by delivery to the party or 
attorney on whom the service is required to be made. or it may be as
follows: 
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made <luring his absence from
his office, by leaving the notice or other papers with his •c1erk there·
in, or with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no per­
son in the office by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous place in the
office; or if it be not open so as to admit of such service. then by
leaving them at the attorney's residence, with some person of suit·
able age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by 
putting the same. enclosed in an envelope. into the postoffice, di­
rected to such attorney; 
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence. between the hours of eight in the morning.
and six in the evening. with some person of suitable age and discre­
tion; and if his residence be not known, by putting the same, en­
closed in an envelope into the postoffice, directed to such party.

Section 371~. Service by Rail, when: Service by mail
may he made. where the person making the service, and the person
on whom it is to be made. reside or have their offices in different 
places. between which there is a regular communication by mail. 

Section 3713. Service by l'flail, how: In case of ser­
vice by mail the notice or other paper must he deposited in the post­ 
office, addressed to the person on whom it is to he served. at his of­
fice or place of residence, and the postage paid. The service is com­
plete at the time of the deposit, but if within a given number of days
after such service a right may he exercised or an act is to he
done by the adverse party. the time within which such right may be
exercised or act be done is extended one day for every twenty-five
miles distance between the place of deposit and the place of addresv:
such extension. however. not to exceed thirty days in all. 

Section 3714. Appearance. Notit-es A.ffer A.ppearanc~: 
.\ defendant appears in an action when he answers. demurs. or
g-ives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance. or when an at­
torney gives notice of appearance for him. After appearance. a d~­
fendant or his attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceed­
ings of which notice is required to be given. But where a defen­
dant has not appeared. service of notice or papers need not be mack 
upon him unless he is imprisoned in the action for want of bail,

Section 3713. ~ervice on ~on-Resident•: When ·
plaintifff or a defendant. who has appeared. resides out of the State,
and has no attorney resident of the State in the action or proceeding.
the service may be made on the clerk for him. But in all cases where
a party has such resident attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service of papers, when required, must be upon the attorney instead
of the party, except of subpoeenas, of writs, and other process issued
in the suit. and of papers to bring him into contempt. · If there be no
such resident attorney of record. service may be made upon the party. 

Section 3718. Not to A.pply lo Proceeding Cor Con­
tempt: ·The foregoing provisions of this Chapter do not apply to
the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to bring a
party into contempt. 

Section 371?. ~erl'ice by Telegraph: Any summons,
writ, or order in any civil suit or proceeding, and all other papers 
requiring service, 'may be transmitted by telegraph for service in any
place, and the telegraphic copy of such writ or order, or paper so
transmitted, may be served or executed by the officer or person to 
whom it is sent for that purpose, and returned by him, if any return
be requisite, in the same manner and with the same force and effect
in all respects, as the original thereof might be if delivered to him.
and the officer or person serving or executing the same, has the same
authority, and is sub ject to the same liabilities, as if the copy were
the original. The original, when a writ or order, must also be file.l 
in the court from which it was issued, and a certified copy thereof 
preserved in the telegraph office from which it was sent. In sending
it, either the original or the certified copy may be used by the opera­
tor for that pttr}H ise. \ Vhenever any document to be sent by telc ·
graph bears a seal. either private or official, it is not necessary fc ,:·
the operator. in sending the same. to telegraph a description of th»
seal, or any words or device thereon. hut the same may he exprcsse \
in the telegraphic copy by the letters ''L. S." or by the word "seal. ..

Section 3718. Co•t11 to Partie•: Parties to actions or pro·
ceedings are entitled to costs and disbursements. as hereinafter pro· 
vided. 

Section 3719. When A.llowed et Cour•e Co PlaintiO-: 
Costs are allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon a judgment in his
favor, in the foJlowing cases: 
1. In an action for the recovery of real property ; 
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal" property
where the value of the property amounts to one hundred dollars or
over; such value shall be determined by the jury, court. or referee,
by whom the action is tried ; 
3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, when
plaintifff recovers one hundred dollars or over ; 
4. J n a special proceeding; 
5 In an action which involves the title or possession "f real 
c-tite, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment toll, or -nunici­
:·'l! fine.

Section 37~0. Several A.ctiona; ~Ingle Cause Ce•1• in
bot 8ne: When several actions are brought on one bond, under­
taking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instruv-eut .n
wr:t,m.{, or in any other cause for the same cause of action, against
-eve .. al parties who might have been joined as defendants in t!1·~ same 
actum. no costs can be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such 
.icrions. which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against
in 'the other actions were at the commencement of the previous action
oper. ly within this State, but the disbursements of the plaint.ff must
ne al'cwed to him in each action. 

Section 3'791. A.c11en for Wage•, A.ttoroey'• Fee A.1lewed: \Vhenever a mechanic, artisan, miner, laborer, servant or
employ ee, shall have cause to bring suit for wages earned and <.ke,
according to the terms of his employment, and shall establish by
the decision of the court or verdict of the jury, that the amount for
which he has brought suit is justly due, and that a demand has been
made in writing. at least fifteen days before suit was brought, for a
sum not to exceed the amount so found due; then it shall be the duty
of the court, before which the case shall be tried, to allow to the 
plaintifff a reasonable attorney's fee, in addition to the amount found
due for wages. to be taxed as costs of suit. In a justice's court, such
attorney's fee shall not be -rnore than five dollars, and in the district
court, not more than ten dollars, except in cases on appeal from jus­ 
tice's court, when the plaintifff may recover an attorney's fee not ex­
ceeding twenty-five dollars. 

Section 379~. Det·endant'• Uo1t11 A..llewed in Cer­
tain Ua11et1: Costs must be allowed. of course, to the defendant
upon a judgment in· his favor in the actions mentioned in Section 
3iI9, and in special proceedings. 

Section 37~3. UNtl!), when in Di•cretioa er Ueurt: 
In other actions than those mentioned in Section 3719, costs may be
allowed or not. and. if allowed, may be apportioned between the
parties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the court.
but no costs can be allowed in an action for the recovery of money
or damages. when the plaintifff recovers less than one hundred dollars.
nor in an action to recover the possession of personal property whet
the value of the property is less than one hundred dollars. 

Section 37~t:. Several Def'eodaots no1 United in
lotereat, Uo1118 8e1'ered: \ Vhen there are several defendants in 
the actions mentioned in Section 3719. not united in interest. and
making separate defenses by separate answers. and plaintifff fails to r·~- 
cover judgment against all, the court must award costs to such of the
defendants as have judgment in their favor. 

Section 37'13. Co•1• eC Appeal Di•cretiooary in
Certain Uaees : In the following cases the costs of appeal are in
the discretion of the court : 
1. When a new trial is ordered ; 
2. When a judgment is modified. In all other cases the pre­
vailing party shall recover costs, including his costs below when the
appeal is to the district court. 

Section 8798. Ref'eree'• Fees: The fees of referees are
five dollars to each for every day spent in the business of the re­
ference; but the parties may agree in writjng upon any other rate of 
compensaton, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed. 

Section 3797. Contiauance, Cos18 Impo11ed •• Con­
dilion oC: When an application is made to a court or referee to 
postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by the postpone­
ment may be imposed, in the discretion oif the court or referee, as a 
condition of granting the same. 

Section 3798. Co•t• when a Tender 18 1'1ade: When
in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges
in his answer that before the commencement of the action he ten­
dered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, and
thereupon deposits in court, for plaintifff, the amount so tendered, 
and the allegation be found to· be true, the plaintifff cannot recover
costs, but must pay costs to the defendant. 

Section 1799. Co8te in A.ction by or A.gainst A.d­
mioietrator, ete.s In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of express trust. or a person ex­
pressly authorize<l by statute, costs may be recovered as in action hv
and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; but
such costs must. by the judgment, be made chargeable only upon
the estate, fund or party represented, unless the court directs the
same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant. personally for mis­
management or bad faith in the action or defense. 

Section 3730. Coat• on Re't'iew Other than by A.p·
peal: When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in ,~
special proceeding is brought before a court of higher jurisdiction for
a review, in any other way than by appeal, the same costs must be
allowed as in cases on appeal, and may be collected by execution, or
in such manner as the court may direct, according to the nature of
the case. 

Section 3731. 1'1emorand11m oC Co•t•. Ta1.ation: 
The party in whose favor the judgment is rendered and who claims
his costs. must within five davs after the verdict or notiee of the 
decision of the court referee, ., file with the clerk, and serve upon
the adverse party or his attorney a copy of a memorandum of the 
items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or pro­
ceeding, which memorandum must be verified by the oath of the
party or his attorney or agent, or by the clerk of his attorney, stating
that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the items are correct and
that the disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or
proceeding. 
A party dissatisfied with the costs claimed, may within five days
after the service upon him of a copy of the memorandum, file and
serve upon the adverse party or his attorney a notice of a motion to
have the same taxed by the court in which judgment was rendered,
or by the judge thereof at chambers. 

Section 373g. Co•t8 en A.ppeal, hew Claimed and
Ret-.overed: Whenever costs are awarded to a party by an appel­
late court, if he claims such costs, he must within. thirty days after
the remittitur is filed with the clerk below, deliver to such clerk a
memorandum of his costs, verified as prescribed by the preceding
Section, and thereafter he may have an execution therefore as upon ~~
judgment. 

Section 3733. lntere•t and Co•t• Included by Clerk 
I• Judgment: The clerk must include in the judgment entered
up by him, any interest on the verdict or decision of the court, from
the time it was rendered or made, and the costs, if the same have
been taxed or ascertained ; and he must, within two days after the
same are taxed or ascertaine<l, if not included in the judgment, insert
the same in a blank left in the judgment for that purpose and must
make a similar insertion 'of the costs in the copies and docket of the
judgment. 

Section 3734. Security for Ce•t•: When the plaintifff
in an action resides out of the State, or is a foreign corporation,
security for the costs and charges, which may be awarded against
such plaintifff may be required by the <lefen<lant. When required .
• ill proceedings in the action must be stayed until an undertaking,
executed by two or more persons, is filed with the clerk to the effect
that they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against
the plaintifff by judgment. or in the progress of the action, not ex­
ceeding the sum of three hundred dollars. A new or an additional
undertaking may be ordered by the court or judge upon proof that
the original undertaking is insufficient security, and proceedings in
the action stayed until such new or additional undertaking is exe 
c..·.1ed and filed.

Section 3733. Security not Given, A.ction DiamiHed: 
. \ fter the lapse of thirty days from the service of notice that security
is required. or of an order for new or additional security, upon 
l rrof thereof, and that no undertaking as required has been filed,
the court or judge may order the action to he dismissed. 

Section 1'7:16. Co•t• when State i• a Party: When
the State is a party and costs are awarded against it, they must b~
paid out of the State treasury, and the State auditor shall draw his 
warrant thereforee on teh general fund.

Section 3731. Co•t8 when County i• a 
-~ county is a party and costs are awarded against 
paid out of the county treasury. 

Section 3738. Lost Papers, l1ow Supplied: If ail 
original pleading or paper Le Jost, the court may authorize a copy
thereof to he filed and used instead of the original.

Section 9739. Papers Without Title oC A.ctie11, 
Valid: An affidavit. notice. or other paper. without the title of the
action or proceeding in which it is made, or with a defective title. 1~ 
as va lid and effectual f« rr any purpose as if duly entitled. if if intelli­
gently re fer tu such act ion or proceeding. 

Section 37' 40. 8occeHiTe A.ctiOD8 on 'Same Con fact: 
Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or
transaction, whenever. after the former action. a new cause of action
a rises therefrom. 

Section 3741. Consolidation of Several Actions:
Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between the
same parties and in the same court. upon cause of action which
might have been joined. the court may order the actions to 111• con­
solidated.

Section 37''1~. Action•, when Deemed Pendin.-: An
action is deemed to be pending from the time of its commencement
until its final determination upon appeal. or until the time for ap­
peal has passed. unless the judgment is sooner satisfied.

Section 3'7 43. A.ction8 to Determine A.d1·er8e Claim• 
and by Sureties: . An action may be brought by one person
against another for the purpose of determining an adverse claim.
which the. latter makes against the former for money or property up­
on an alleged obligation; and also against two or more persons. for
the purpose of compelling one to satisfy a debt -rlue to the other. fnr
which plaintifff is hound as a surety. 

Section 3744. 'lime may be Extended: When an act
. to be done. as provided in this Code, relates to the pleadings in the 
action, or the undertakings to be filed, or the justification of sureties.
or the preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions, or '){
amendments thereto. or to the service of notices. other than of ap­
peal, the time a1Iowed by this Code may be extended, upon good
cause shown. by the court in which the action is pending, or the
judge thereof.

Section 3743. Te•timooy, when Taken by (;lerk: Ou
the trial of an action in a court of record, if there is no short-hand
reporter of the court in attendance, the court may require the clerk
to take down the testimony in writing. 

Section 37 48. (;Jerk must Ket-p a ReSi1ter oC Ac­
tion•: The clerk must keep among the records of the court a register
of actions. He must 'enter therein the title of the action, with brief
notes under it. from time to time. of all papers filed and proceeding= 
;n<l therein. 

Section 3747. Two Bef'eref'8 may Act A.lone: When
there are three referees. or three arbitrators. all must meet. but two
of them may do any act which might he done by all. 

Section 3748. Actions Against Sh~riff' f'or Offldal
A.ct•: If an action is brought against a sheriff for an act done by
virtue of his office. and he gives written notice thereof to the sure­
ties on any bond of indemnity received by him. the judgment re­
covered therein is conclusive evidence of his right to recover against
such sureties: and the court, or ju<lge in vacation. may. on motion. 
upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered up against
them for the amount so recovered. including costs. 

Section 37 49. 1Jndertaklngs lffentloned, Requisitett
of': In a11 cases where an undertaking, with sureties .is required by
the provisions of this Code, the officer taking the same, must require
the sureties to accompany it with an affidavit that they are each resi­
dents and householders or freeholders within the State. and each
are worth the sum specified in the undertaking. over and above all
their just debts and liabilities. exclusive of property exempt from ex­
ecution: but when the amount specified in the undertaking exceeds
two thousand dollars. and there are more than two sureties thereon.
they may state in their affidavits that they are severally worth
amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking. if the whole
amount be equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties. 

Section 87:JO. ~Hate aot Requln-d te GI-Ye Bend•:
In any civil action or proceeding wherein the State or the people of
the State is a party plaintifff. or any State officer. in his official ca­
pacity. or on behalf of the State or any county. or city. is a party
:>laintiff or defendant, no bond, written undertaking, or security can
J-,e required of the State. or the people thereof, or any officer thereof,
or of any county. or city: but on complying with the other provis­
ions of this Code. the State. or the people thereof. or any State of­
ficer acting in his official capacity, or any county or city. have the
same rights. remedies. and benefits as if the hond. undertaking. or
security were given and approved as required by this Code.

Section 97':JI. ~orety, A ppt-al Bond wh .. n 8obtltt­ 
tated to Richt11 o, Creditor: Whenever any surety on an un­
dertaking on appeal. executed to stay nroceedinzs upon a monev
judgment. pays the judgment. either with or without action after 
:~!-= affirmation hy the appellate court. he is substituted to the rights
of the judgment creditor. and is entitled to -control, enforce. and
satisfy such judgments in all respects as if he had recovered the 
,: '71 .e. 

Section 9739. ~tatotory Corm oC 1Jnd«artakinl': 
Whenever a party to anv action or proceeding- desires to give an un­
dertaking provided to he e-iven hy law. it shall be sufficient if
the sureties sign an undertaking indicating that they are thereby
bound to the obligations of the statute requiring the undertaking to 
be given.
Such underaking may be in form as follows: 
(Title of Court).
( Title of Cause). 
Whereas, the .. ·. . . . . . . . . . desires to give an undertaking for
( state what) now thereforee. we the undersigned sureties.
do hereby obligate ourselves jointly and severally, to .
( name who) under said statutory oh ligations in the sum
of dollars. 
The sureties so sig-ning- such undertaking are hound to the fuil 
statutory obligations of the statute reriniring- the undertaking. 

Section 3'733. Proceeding• to RelieTe Sureties : The sure­
ty or the representative of any surety, upon the bond of any trustee.
committee. guardian. assignee. receiver. executor. or administrator. or
other fiduciary may apply by petition to the court wherein said bond =s 
directed to he filed or which may have jurisdiction of such trustee, com­
mittee, guardian. assignee. receiver, executor or administrator, praying
to be relievecl from further liability as such surety for the acts or omis­
sions of the trustee, committee, guardian. assignee, receiver, ex-'
ecutor or administrator, or other fiduciary. which may occur aft, r
the date of the order relieving such surety to be granted as herein 
provided for and to require such trustee, committee, guardian, as­ 
signee. receiver. executor or administrator, or other fiduciary, to
show cause why he should not account and said surety be relieved
from such further liability as aforesaid and said principal be required
to give a new bond; and thereupon. upon filing of said petition, said
court shall issue such order returnable at such time and place and
to be served in such manner as said court sha11 direct and may restrain
such trustee. committee, guardian, assignee. receiver. executor or ad­
ministrator or other fiduciary from acting except in such manner as it 
may direct to preserve the trust estate: and upon the return of such
order to show cause if the principal in the bond account in due form
of law and file a new bond duly approved. then said court must
make an order releasing said surety filing the petition as aforesaid,
from liability upon the hond of any subsequent act or default of the
principal : and in default of said principal thus accounting and filing 
such new bond said court shall make an order directing such trustee.
committee. guardian. assignee. receiver. executor or administrator
or fiduciary to account in due form of Jaw within thirty days. and
that if the trust fund or estate shall he found or made good and paid
over or properly secured such surety sha11 he discharged from any
and all further liability as such for the subsequent acts or omission"
of the trustee. committee. guardian. assignee. receiver. executor er: 
administrator or fiduciary. after the date of such surety heing so re­
lieved or discharged and discharging such trustee. committee. guar­ 
dian, assignee. receiver. executor or administrator. , .r fiduciary. 

Section 3'734. S11rt-1ies Agr~t"mt-nt to Dt"po,d1 Money: 
It shall he lawful for any party of whom a 'bond. undertaking. 
or other obligation is required. to ag-ree with his surety or sureties
for the deposit of any or all monies and assets f< .r which such surety
or sureties are or may be held responsible. with a hank. savings bank.
safe, deposit or trust company. authorized hy law to do business as
such. or other depository approved hv the court. or a judge thereof. ii 
such deposit is otherwise proper. for the safe keeping thereof, amt 1!1 
-uch manner as to prevent the withdrawal of such monies and as­
sets or any part thereof. without the written consent of such sureiv 
cir sureties or an order of the court. or a judge thereof. made on suc'i 
notice to such surety or surities as such court or judge may direct. 

Section 3733. Suretln Retm•une•ent Cor Guaranty
Premium: Any receiver, assignee, guardian, trustee, commit­
tee, executor, administrator or curator, or other fiduciary, required
by law or the order of any court or judge, to give a bond or other
obligation as such, may include as a part of the lawful expense of
executing his trust, such reasonable sum paid a company authorized
under the laws of this State so to do, for becoming his surety on
such bond as may be allowed by the court in which, or a judge before
whom, he is required to account, not exceeding one per centum per
annum on the amount of such bond; and in all actions and proceed­
ings a party entitled to recover disbursements therein shall be allowed
and may tax and recover such sum paid such company for executing
any bond, recognizance, undertaking, stipulation, or other obliga­
tion therein not exceeding, however. one per cent. on the amount of
the liability upon such bond. recognizance. undertaking, stipulation.
or other obligation during each year the same has been in force. 

Section 37:19. OfDcial Noticn, Rate to be tJharl'ed
f'or Po.bllcation: The rate to be charged for all official
notices required to be published in any newspaper in this State by
any village. city, or county official or other person shall he one dollar
per folio, "straight matter," nonpareil type, or its equivalent. for first
msertion, and fifty cents per folio for each subsequent insertion, and
for table or figure matter one dollar and fifty cents per folio for first
insertion. and seventy-five cents for each subsequent insertion, non­
pareil type or its equivalent: one inch single column measure to be
considered a folio ; fractional folios to be charged for pro rata : Pro­ 
vided, No charge shall be made for less than one folio in any case. 

Section 37:57. £ertiorarl De.tined: The writ of certiorai
may be denominated the writ of review. 

Section 87:IS. When and by what £ourt• Granted: 
A writ of review may be granted by the supreme court or any dis­
trict court, when an inferior tribunal, board or officer exercising
judicial functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal,
board or officer. and there is no appeal. nor, in the judgment of the
court any plain. speedy and adequate remedy. 

Section 37':19. A.pplieation t'or, how Made: The appli­
cation must be made on affidavit by the party beneficially interested,
and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to 
i he adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it should 
n t he allowed. or may grant the writ without notice. 

Section 3780. Writ Directed to Inferior Tribunal, 
,tc~; TJi~ writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board or 
officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record
or proceedings· to be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the
crerk, if there be one. must return the writ with the transcript re­
quired. 

Section 1761. Content8 •f' Writ: The writ of review 
t' ust command the party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the
court issuing the writ. at a specified time and place, a transcript of the
record and proceedings ( describing or referring. to them with con venient certainty), that the same may be reviewed by the court and
requiring the party in the meantime to desist from further proceed·
ings in the matter to be reviewed. 

Section 176~. Preceeding• in Interior Ceurt, Stay
o,: If a stay of proceedings be not intended. the words requiring
the stay must be omitted from. the writ; these words may be inserted 
or omitted in the sound discretion of the court, but if omitted, the
power of the inferior court or officer is not suspended or the proceed­
ings stayed. 

Section 3769. SerYicf' •' Writ: The writ must be
served, in the same manner as a summons in civil action except when
otherwise expressly directed by the court. 

Section 376.tl. Review under Wril, Eifent o,: The
review upon this writ cannot be extended further than to determine
whether the inferior tribunal. board or officer has regularly pursued
the authority of such tribunal, board or officer.

Section 3763. Return Perfected. H~aring and
Judgment: T f the return of the writ be defective, the court rnav 
order a further return to he made. When a full return has been
made. the court must hear the parties. or such of them as may attend
for that purpose. and may thereupon give judgment, either affirming.
or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below. 

Section 1766. Copy of' .Judgment muet be Sent to
Iat'erior Tribunal: A copy of the judgment signed by the
clerk, must be transmitted to the inferior tribunal, board or officer
having the custody of the record or proceedings certified up.

Section 17'67. Judgment Roll: A copy of the judgment
signed by the clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ and return,
constitute the judgment roll.

Section 37'68. .Mandamus Deftned: The writ of manda­
mus may be denominated a writ of mandate. 

Section 3'7.69. Whea a•d by wha1 Court IHued: I. 
may be issued by the supreme court or any district court, to any infe­
rior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the performance 
ot an act which the law especially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust or station ; or to compel the admission of a party to the
use and the enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled.
and from which he is unlawfully preclhded by such inferior tribunal. 
corporation. hoard or person. 

Section 9770. When and upon what te ls•ue;: The
writ must be issued in all cases where there is not a plain, speedy
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. It must be issue-I
upon affidavit, on the application of the party beneficially interested. 

Section 3771. Wril either il..lternative er Peremp­
tory: The writ may be either alternative or peremptory. The al­
ternative writ must state genera1ly the allegation against the party
to whom it is directed, and command such party immediately after
the receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the
act required to be performed, or to show cause before the court at a
specified time and place, why he has not done so. The peremptor,v
writ must be in a similar form except that the words requiring the
party to show cause why he has .not done as commanded must be
omitted, and a return day inserted. 

Section 3779. A.pplication without Notice, A.lter­
natlve Writ, Otherwi•e Peremptory: When the applica­
tion to the court is made without notice to the adverse party, and
the writ be allowed the alternative must be first issued; but if the
application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed, the peremp­
tory may be issued in the first instance. The notice of the applica­
tion, when given, must be at least ten days. The writ cannot be
granted by default. The case must be heard by the court whether
the adverse party appear or not. 

Section 3773. A.dTerae Party may A.nswer under
Oath: On the return of the alternative, or the day on which the
application of the writ is noticed, the party on whom the writ or no­
tice has been served may show cause by answer, under oath, made
in the same manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action. 

Section 3774. IJpoo Question oC Fact, Court may
Order Jory Trial: If an answer be made which raises a ques­
tion as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the mo­
tion and affecting the substantial rights of the parties, and upon the
supposed truth of the allegation of which the application for the 
writ is based, the court may, in its discretion, order the question to
be tried before a jury and postpone the argument until such trial can
be had and the verdict certified to the court. The question to be
tried must be distinctly stated in the order for trial, and the county
must be designated in which the same shall be had. The order may
also direct the jury to assess any damages which the applicant may
have sustained in case they find for him. 

Section 17'7'3. A.ppllcan1 may Demur to A.aewer or
C.untenail hy Proof': On the trial, the applicant is not pre­
cluded by the answer from any valid objection to its sufficiency, and
may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by way of avoid­
ance.

Section 37'78. :notion Cor New Trial, where made: 
The motion for new trial must be made in the court in which the is­
sue of fact is tried. 

Section 17'77'. Tranemi••i•u o.C Verdict. Argument 
el" A.pplieation: If no notice of a motion for a new trial be
given, or if given, the motion be denied, the clerk, within five days
after rendition of the verdict or denial of the motion, must trans­
mit to the court in which the application for the writ is pending, :t 
certified copy of the verdict attached to the order of trial; after which
either party may bring on the argument of the application, upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party. 

Section 3778. Proceeding• when Question or Law
.I.lone lavolved: If no answer he made. the case must be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If the answer raises onlv
questions of law, or puts in issue immaterial statements. not affect­ 
in!.!" ti re substantial rights of the parties. the court must proceed to hear
or fix a day for hearing the argument of the case. 

Section 1779. .Judgment, Damage., Ceet•, Peremp­
tory Mandate: If judgment be given for the applicant, he
may recover the damages which he has sustained, as found by the
jury, or as may be determined by the court or referee, upon a re­
ference to be ordered, together with costs ; and for such damages
and costs an execution may issue; and a peremptory mandate must
also be awarded without delay. 

Seetion 3780. Serwice o.t·Wrlt: The writ must be served
in the same manner as a summons in a civil action, except when
otherwise expressly directed by order of the court. Service upon a 
majority of the members of any board or body is service upon the
board or body, whether at the time of the service the board or body
was in session or not. 

Section :1781. Penalty Cor Di•obedien~e of Writ: 
When a peremptory mandate has been issued and directed to any in­
ferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, if it appear to the court
that any membef of such tribunal, corporation or board, or such per­
son upon whom the writ has been personally served, has, without
just excuse, refused or neglected to obey the same, the court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not' exceeding one thousand dollars. In case
of persistence in a refusal of obedience, the court may order the
party to be imprisoned until the writ is obeyed, and may make any
orders, necessary and proper for the complete enforcement of the
writ. 

Section 978~. Prohibition Defined: The writ of pru­
hibition is the counterpart of the writ of mandate. It arrests the
proceedings of any tribunal. corporation, board. or person. whe.i
such proceedings are without or in excess of the jurisdiction of such 
tribunal. corporation. hoard or person. 

Section 3783. Whea aad where l••ued: It may be 
issued by the supreme or any district court, to an inferior tribuna1,
or to a corporation, board, or person, ip all cases where there is not
a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of law. 
It is issued upon affidavit, on the application of the person benefi­
cia11y interested.

Section 3784. Writ n1ay be A.lternaUve er Peremp­
tory: The writ must be either alternative or peremptory. The
alternative writ must state generally the allegation against the party
to whom it is directed, and command such party to desist or refrain
from further proceedings in the action or matter specified therein,
until the further order of the court from which it is issued, and to
show cause before such court, at a specified time, and place, why
such party should not be absolutely restrained from any further pro­
ceedings in such action or matter. The peremptory writ must be in
a similar form, except that the words requiring the party to show
cause why he should not be absolutely restrained, etc .. must be omit­ 
ted and a return day inserted. 

Section 3783. C~rtaia Provi•lon• of Precedia« Chapter A.ppllcable: The provisions of the preceding Sections 
from 3772 to 3781, both inclusive, apply to the proceedings for writ
of prohibition. 

Section 3788. Partin, how Desicnated: The party
prosecuting a special proceeding may be known as the plaintifff, and
the adverse party as the defendant. 

Section 3787. Jud«ment and 8rder• Deflaed: A
judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the
rights of the parties therein. The definitions of a motion and an
order in a civil action are applicable to similar acts in a special pro­ 
ceeding. 

Section 37SS. Writ• may Issue and be Beard at
Uhambers: Writs of review. mandate, ancl prohibition may be
issued by any of the justices of the supreme court. or by any district
judge, in vacation, an<l may. in the discretion of the justice or judge
issuing the writ. he made returnable and a hearing thereon be had 
in vacation. 

Section 3789. Practice aad &ppeal•, ProYi•i•n• A'.p­ 
plica ble: Except as otherwise provided, the provisions of this
Code relative to civil actions in the district court. including those
relating to new trials and appeals therefrom, are applicable to and i··,
as far as not inconsistent with the special provisions relating thereto,
constitute the rules of practice in certiorari, mandamus, and prohibi­ 
tion proceedings. 

Section 3798. Writ oC •cire facias Abolished: The
writ of scire facias is abolished. 

Section 3791. Neti~e oC Clailn, B~quJ•lte• and P11b­
licatlon: In all cases of claimants of any of the water of any 
stream, where the water of said stream has been adjudicated by de··
cree of court, who shall claim the right to the use of any of the water
of such stream. and shall not have included in said degree for any
cause, may have his right, which he so claims to use any of such 
water summarily adjudicated by the district court of the county when
said claim is given by notice by publication in a newspaper in said
county, if one be published there, if not then by filing such notice with
the clerk of said district court of said county, which notice shall be ·
published for thirty days in such paper. and if there be no paper
published in said county, then such notice shall be posted in the of­
fice of the said clerk of the court, which notice shall contain substan­
tially the following: That the claimant claims of the water of such
stream for irrigation or domestic use certain quantities, naming the
quantities and cubic feet per second of time. describing in such notice
the place of diversion of such water. the land upon which it is to be
or has been used the amount of land in cultivation at the date of the
notice. that the land is arid land, the date of diversion of the water.
the amount then diverted and put to a useful purpose. the amount of 
land in cultivation at the date of such diversion, 

Section 179~. Complaint, when Filed. A.llqation
EHentlal: Such claimant. mentioned in Section 3791 shall
file his complaint in the district court at least three days before
the, first day of the term: his complaint shall substantially set out the
state of facts contained in the notice required by the provisions of
Section 3791, together with the allegation that such notice has been
published in a newspaper, naming the paper, or filed with the clerk
cf the district court at least six weeks prior to the first day of said
term, and praying the court to take proof of claimant's claim to the
use of a proportion of such water. and adjudge and decree his right 
to the same. 

Section 179:1 'J'rial, Findingt1 and Decree: The dis­
trict court shall try such claim of said applicant in the same manner,
and be governed by the same law and rules as govern the court in
the trial of water rights between individual litigants, and shall de­
termine from the evidence the right said applicant shall have, if any.
to the use of water of such stream; and shall file such findings.
which shall thereafter become a decree in favor of said applicant
against any person trespassing upon the rights established by said
decree. 

Section 3794. A.n8wer, Contesting Claim, Co•t1: 
Upon filing the complaint as provided by Section 3792. pray­
ing for a decree awarding to any person a right to the use of any ot
the water in any stream of which this chapter treats, any owner of wa­
ter of· such stream, or any person to whom the court may have hereto­
fore decreed the right of the use of any such water. may file an answer
to such complaint, denying generally or specifically the allegations
of said complaint. and such person may produce witnesses to disprove
the allegation of such complaint. or rebut any testimony offered by
such claimant and establishing his right to the use of any such wa­
ter, and in all such trials any such applicants shall pay all costs in­
curred by him, and in case any person by answer to such complaint
shall create any costs, shall he responsible for a11 such costs. 

Section 8793. .Jutlldal o•~fl. Supreme (!ourt te
Bear: The supreme court shall hear and determine contests of the
election of judges of the supreme court, judges of the district courts,
and district attorneys ; and in case they shall disagree, the governor
shall act with them in determining the contest. but no judge of the
supreme court shall sit upon the hearing of any case in which he is 
a party. 

Section 8798. RemoYal ~ounty Seat, ete., District
Court to Hear: The district courts of the respective counties
shall hear and determine contests of election in regard to the removal
of county seats, and in regard to any other subject which may by
law be submitted to the vote of the people of the county, and the
proceedings therein shall be conducted as near as may be hereinafter
provided for contesting the election of county officers.

Section 3797. County and other o•~es . .J11risdldion.
Distri~t ~eurt: The district courts shall hear and determine
contests of a11 other county. township and precinct officers. and
officers of the cities and incorporated villages within the county. 

Section 3798: Who may Contest: The election of any
person declared elected to any office other than executive State officers
and members of the legislature, may be contested by any elector of
the State. judicial district, county, township. precinct, city or incorpo­
rated -village in and for which the person is declared elected. 

Section 1799. Complaints, A.lleJ(ation• EHentlal.
CNt Bond: The contestants shall file in the proper court, within 
twenty days after the votes are canvassed. a complaint, setting forth
the name of the contestant. amt that he is an elector competent to
conest such election: the name of the incumbent, the office contest­
ed. the time of the election, and the particular causes of contest, which
complaint shall be verified by the affidavit of the contestant, that the
causes set forth are true as he verily believes. The contestant must
also file a bond, with security, to be approved by the clerk of the court,
or district judge, as the case may be, conditioned to pay all costs in
ease the election he confirmed. the complaint dismissed, or the prosecu­
tion fail. 

Section 3800. Conte•ted Ballot•, :Name• oC Penoo•
Votln5: \Vhen the reception of illegal or the rejection of legal 
votes is alleged as a cause of contest, the names of the persons who
so voted, or whose votes were rejected. if known. with the precinct,
township or ward where they voted or offered to vote, shall be set
forth in the complaint. 

Section 3801. 811mmons, C,opy oi· Uomplaint: Upon
the filing of such complaint summons shall issue against the person 
whose office is contested. in the same manner as in civil actions. and
a copy of the complaint sha11 in aJI cases accompany the summons. 

Section 3802. T~ial, when: The cause shall stand for
trial at the expiration of thirty days from the time of service of the 
summons and complaint. if the court shall then be in session: other­
wise, on the first day of the next term thereafter. 

Section 3803. PMtponement•: The trial shall proceed at
the time appointed. unless postponed for good cause shown by affi­
davit, the terms of which postponement are in the discretion of the 
court.

Section 3S04. Rulee of Pra~tlce and Evidence.
Power oC Co11rt: The proceedings shall be similated to those in
an action. so far as practicable, but shall be under the control and
direction of the court. which shall have all the powers necessary to
the right hearing and determination of the matter: to compel the
attendance of witnesses. swear them and direct their examination;
to punish for contempt in its presence or by disobedience to its law­
ful mandate; to adjourn from day to day; to make any order con­
cerning immediate costs. and to enforce is orders by attachment. It
shall be governed hy the rules of law and evidence applicable to the 
case.

Section 380:1. Tes1imony. Deposition•. Subpoena•: 
The testimony may he oral. or hy depositions taken as in other
actions in the court where the case is tried. Subpoenas for wit­
nesses may he issued as in other cases any time after the filing of the
complaint. 

Section 3806. S11fflciency oC Complaiat. A.mend·
ment. Di8mitil8RI: The proceedings sha11 not be dismissed for
want of form. if the particular causes of contest are alleged with such
certainty as will sufficiently advise the incumbent of the real grounds
of contest. If any part of the causes are held insufficient they may
be amended, but the incumbent will be entitled to an adjournment
if he state on oath that he has a matter of answer to the amended,
causes, for the preparation of which he needs further time. Such
adjournment shall be upon such terms as the court deem reasonable;
but if all the causes are held insufficient. and an amendment is asked.
the adjournment sha11 he at the cost of the contestant. If no amend­
ment is asked for or made. or in case of entire failure to prosecute. the
proceedings may he dismissed. 

Section 3807'. Process, Service, Fee8: The style, form
and manner of service of process and papers. and the fees of officers
and witnesses shall be the same as in other cases in the court where
the cause is tried. 

Section 1808. Voter11 Required to TntiCy: The court
may require any person called as a witness. who voted on such elec­
tion, to answer touching his qualifications as a voter; and if he was
not a qualified voter in the county where he voted, then to answer
for whom he voted; and if the witness answer such questions no part
of his testimony on that trial shall be used against him in any crimi­ 
nal action.

Sectien 3809. lo11pection oC Ballot11 and Poll
Book•: If an inspection of the ballots or poll hooks of any elec­
tion district in this State shall become necessary for the determina ·
tion of any election contest before any court, the presiding judg(:
thereof may by order, naming the district or districts. require the
proper officer to procure the same from the county auditor, or other
person in whose possession or custody the same may be, and such
clerk or person shall deliver the same to said officer, who shall deliver
them unopened to such presiding judge. 

Section 8810. Pro~eedinl'• 1Jpon ln•pection: The
presiding officer shall open and inspect the same in open court, in
the presence of the parties or their attorneys, and immediately after
such inspection shall again seal them in an envelope and return
them. by mail, or otherwise. to the office of the county auditor in
which they were at first required to be filed. 

Section 181 I. Uo8t•, Jod&"ment Cor: The contestant and
the incumbent are liable to the officers and witnesses for the costs
made by them respectively. But if the election be confirmed, or the
complaint be dismissed. or the prosecution fail, judgment shall be 
rendered against the contestant for costs; and if the judgment be
against the incumbent, or the election be set aside it shall be against
him for costs.

Section 1819. Jodsm~nt, Matter• Determined: The
judgment of the court in cases of contested election shalt confirm or 
annul the election according to the right of the matter: or, in case
the contest is in relation to the election of some person to an office
shall declare as elected the person who shall appear to be duly elected. 

Section 181:1. Tie ,·ote. Deci8ion by Lot: If it appears
that two or more persons have-or would have had if the legal bal­ 
lots cast or intended to be cast for them had been counted-the
highest and equal number of votes for the same office, the persons 
receiving such votes shall decide by lot, in such manner as the court 
shall by written order direct, which of them shall be declared duly
elected ; and the judgment shall be entered accordingly. 

Section 3814. Order to Put in Po81Jet1eion: When
either the contestant or incumbent shall be in possession of the office
by holding over, or otherwise, the court shall, if the judgment be
against the party so in possession of the office and in favor d Ins
antagonist, issue an order to carry into effect the judgment of the
court, which order shall be under the seal of the court, and shall com­
mand the sheriff of the county to put the successful party into pos­
session of the office without delay, and to deliver to him all books
and papers belonging to the same : and the sheriff shall execute such 
order as other writs. 

Section 381:1. Party Davin• Plurality, lnelipfile;
Election Vold: When the person whose election is contested is
found to have received the highest numbers of legal" votes, but the
election is declared null by reason of legal disqualifications on his part,
or for other causes, the person receiving the next highest number of
votes shall not be declared elected, but the election sha11 be declared
void.

Section 3818. Appeal•, 8upf'rsedf'a11 Bond Rttoulrf'd: 
The party against whom judgment is rendered in cases tried in the
district court may appeal to the supreme court, and if the appellant
he in possession of the office. such appeal shall not supersede the ex­
ecution of the judgment of the court. as provided in the preceding
Section. unless he give a bond with security. to be approved by the
court. in a sum to be fixed by the court. and which shall be at least
rloul.le the probable compensation of such officer for six months.
which bond shall be conditioned that he will prosecute his appeal
without delay. and that if the judgment appealed from be affirmed.
he ~·c1Hl pay over to the successful oarty all compensation received 
by him while in possession of said office after the judgment appealed
from was rendered. and such bond shall contain the express consent
that judgment may be rendered against the sureties on the appeal
as provided in the following Section. 

Section 44l '7. Judgment in A.ppellate Uourt: If upon
the appeal the judgment be affirmed, the appellate court shall ren­
der judgment against the appellant and the sureties on his bond, or
either of them, for the amount which the appellee is entitled to re­
cover from the appellant on account of such contest, together with
the costs; but in such case the sureties, or either of them, shall be entitled to produce and examine witnesses concerning the amount of 
such recovery. 

Section 3818. Bend Cor Uoet• by A.ppellant: If upon
appeal the appellant shall not be in possession of the office, he shall
give bond. with security to be approved by the court where the 
_111dgment is rendered, conditioned to pay all costs that may be ad­
judged against him upon such appeal.

Section 3819. What A.ct~ er Omi88ions are Uon­
tempts: The following acts or omissions in respect to a court of
jus: ice. or proceeding therein. are contempts of the authority of the
court: 
I. Disorderly. contemptuous or insolvent behavior toward the
judge while holding the court. tending to interrupt the due course of 
a trial or other judicial proceedings
2. A breach of the peace. boisterous conduct, or violent disturb­
ance tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial 
proceedings 
3. Misbehavior in office or other willful neglect or violation of
duty by an attorney, counsel, clerk, sheriff, coroner or other person 
3.
,1 ppointed or elected to perform a judicial or ministerial service;
4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by 
a party to an action or special proceeding;
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order. or process of the 
court ;
6. Assuming to be an officer, attorney, counsel of a court, and 
acting as such without authority ;
7. Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an officer 
bv virtue of an order or process of such court;
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action while go­ 
ing to, remaining at, or returning from the court where the action is
on the calendar for trial ; 
9 Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceed­
ings of the court; 
Io. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served. or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a witness; 
~ 1. When summoned as a juror in a court, neglecting to attend
or serve as such, or improperly conversing with a party to an action
to be tried at such court, or with any other person, in relation to
the merits of such action, or receiving a communication from a
party or other person in respect to it. without immediately disclos­
ing the same to the court; 
I 2. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal. magistrate or officer
of the lawful judgment. order or process of a superior court. or pro­ 
ceeding in an action or special proceeding contrary to law. after such
action or special proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such
inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer. Disobedience of the lawful
orders or process of a judicial officer is also a contempt of the author­
ity of such officer. 

Section 38~0. Re-entry on Property after Eviction,
when a Contempt: Every person dispossessed or ejected from 
or out of any real property by the judgment or process of any court
of competent jurisdiction, and who, not having right so to do, re-en­
ters into or upon, or takes possession of, any such real property, or
induces or procures any person not having right so to do, or aids o: 
abets him therein, is guilty of a contempt of the court by which such
judgment was rendered, or from which such process issued. Upon
a conviction for such contempt, the court or justice of the peace must
immediately issue an alias process directed to the proper officer, and
requiring him to restore the party entitled to the possession of such
property under the original judgment or process, to such possession. 

Section 38~1. Uootempt Uommitted in Pre•ence oi·
Uourt, Puoislaed Summarily: When a contempt is commit­
ted in the immediate view and presence of the court, or judge at
chambers, it may be punished summarily; for which an order must
be made, reciting the facts as occuring in such immediate view and
presence. adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby
guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed. 

Section 3822. When not •• CJommlUed, Aftldawit
or Statement ehall be 1'1ade : When the contempt is not
committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or judge
at chambers. an affidavit shall be presented to the court, or judge of
the facts constituting the contempt. or a statement of the facts by
the referees or arbitrators, or other judicial officer.

Section 3823. Warrant oC Attachment or :Notice to
Show Cau•e: When the contempt is not committed in the imme­ 
diate view and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attach­
ment may be issued to bring the person charged to answer, or, without
a previous arrest, a warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or
upon an order to show cause, be granted ; and no warrant of com­
mitment can be issued without such previous attachment to answer,
or such notice or order to show cause. 

Section 88~4. Bail may be GiYeo by Person A.r­
reated: \Vhenever a warrant of attachment is issued, pursuant to
this Chapter, the court or judge must direct, by an indorsement on
such warrant, that the person charged may be let to bail for his
appearance, in an amount to be specified in such indorsement. 

Section 38~3. Sheriff' mu•t A.rreat and Detain the
Person: Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the sheriff
must keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge,
and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the
person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the
next Section.

Section 3826. Bail Rood, Forni and Condition11 01·:
When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is contained in the 
warrant of attachment. or indorsed thereon, he must be discharged
from the arrest. upon executing and delivering to the officer, at any 
time before the return day of the warrant. a written undertaking,
with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person arrested will
appear on the return of the warrant and abide the order of the court
or judge thereupon; or they will pay as may be directed, the sum
specified in the warrant. 

Section 3827. Offl.cer mu1t Return ,varran1 and
1Jndertaking: The officer must return the warrant of arrest and
undertaking, if any. received by him from the person arrested, by
the return day specified therein. 

Section 3828. Hearinl': When the person arrested has
been brought np or appeared, the court or judge must proceed to in­
vestigate the charge, and must hear any answer which the person
arrested may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or
against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time LO 
time, if necessary. 

Section 98,JB. Judgment and Penalty, iC Guilty: 
Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge must de­
termine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the con­
tempt charged. and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the con­
tempt, a fine may be imposed on him not exceeding five hundred
dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both. 

Section 3830. OaniHieo te PerCerm A.ct, Per•on hn·
pri•oued until Performance: When the contempt consists
in the omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the
person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he has performed ic,
and in that case the act must be specified in the warrant of commit­ 
ment. 

Section 3S31. Proceeding8 u· Party Fail to A.ppear: 
When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the person
atrested do not appear on the return day, the court or judge may is­
sue another warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be pro­
secuted. or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure of
damages in the action is the extent of the loss or injury sustained by
the aggrieved party by the reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceeding. 

Section 3S3~. lllo~H8 Suffldent Cau•e Cor Non­
Appearanf'e of" Party A.rre!il1f'd: Whenever, by the provisions 
of this Chapter. an officer is required to keep a person arrested on a
warrant of attachment in custody. and to bring him before a court
or judge. the inability, from illness or otherwise, of the person to at­
tend. is a sufficient excuse for not bringing him up: and the officer must
not confine a person arrested upon the warrant. in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal liberty, except so far as may be neces­
sary to secure his personal attendance. 

Section 3833. Judgment and Orden in •ucb Ca•n
Fiaal: The judgment and orders of the court or judge, made in
cases of contempt, are final and conclusive. 

Section 3834. How Di .. olYcd: A corporation may be
dissolved by the district court of the county where its office or prin­
cipal place of business is situated, upon its voluntary application for
that purpose.

Section 3833. A..pplication, what to Contain: The
application must be in writing and set forth: 
1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members called for
that purpose. the dissolution of the corporation was resolved upon by
a two-third vote of all the stockholders or members: 
2. That all claims and demands against the corporation have
been satisfied and discharged 

Section 3838. A..pplication, how Signed and Verified: 
The application must be signed by a majority of the board of trus­
tees, directors. or other officers having the management of the affairs
of the corporation. and must be verified in the same manner as a com­ 
plaint in a civil action. 

Section 3S37. Fillo& A..pplication aud Publication 
of' Noti~e: If the judge is satisfied that the application is in con­
formity with this Chapter. he must order it to be filed with the clerk.
and that the clerk give not less than thirty days notice of the applica­
tion. hy publication 111 ~< une newspaper published in the county. and
if there arc none such, then by advertisements posted up m three of
the principal public places in the county. 

Section 3~38. Objection• may be Flied: At any time
before the expiration of the time of publication, any person may file
his objections to the application. 

Section 3839. Dearing oC Application: After the time
of publication has expired, the court may, upon five days notice to 
the persons who have filed objections, or without further notice, if 
no objections have been filed, proceed to hear and determine the
application; and if all the statements herein made are shown to b~
true, he must declare the corporation dissolved. 

Section 3840. .Judgment Roll and .Appeal: The ap­
plication, notices, and proofs of publication, objections (if any), and
declaration of dissolution, constitute the judgment roll, and from
the judgment an appeal may be taken as from judgments of the db­
trict courts. 

Section 8841. 178e tor which Eminent ltomain Es.­
ercl•ed : Subject to the provisions of this Chapter. the right of 
eminent domain may be exercised in behalf of the following public
uses: 
I. Public buildings and grounds for the use of the State and all
other public uses authorized by the legislature; 
2. Public buildings and grounds for .the use of any county, in­
corporated city, village, town or school districts, canals, aqueducts,
flumes, ditches, or pipes for conducting water for the use of the in­
habitants of any county, incorporated city, village, or town, or for
draining any county, incorporated city, village, or town; raising
the banks of streams, removing obstructions therefrom, and widen­
ing, deepening, or straightening their channels; roads, streets, and al­
leys, and all other public uses for the benefit of 3.ny county, incor­
porated city, village or town, or the inhabitants thereof; 
3. \Vharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries, bridges, toll
roads, by roads, plank and turnpike roads, steam and horse railroads ;
canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts and pipes, for public transporta­
tion, supplying mines and farming neighborhoods with water, and 
draining and reclaiming lands, and for floating logs and lumber on
streams not navigable ; 
4. Roads, tunnels, ditches, flumes, pipes and dumping places for
working mines; also, outlets, natural or otherwise, for the flow, de­
posit, or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from mines; also, an
occupancy in common by the owners or possessors of different mines
of any place for the flow, deposit or conduct of tailings or refuse
matter from their several mines ; 
5. By-roads leading from highways to residences and farms;
6. Telegraph and telephone lines; 
7. Sewerage of any incorporated city. 

Section 3842. E8tates and Rights Subj~ct to Condemnation: The following is a classification of the estates and
rights in lands subject to be taken for public use: 
I. A fee simple. when taken for public buildings or grounds, or 
for permanent buildings. for reservoirs and dams and permanent
flooding occasioned thereby, or for an outlet for a flow. or a place for
the deposit of debris or tailings of a mine; 
2. An easement. when taken for any other use;
3. The right of entry upon and occupation of lands. and the right 
to take therefrom such earth. gravel. stones. trees. and timber a s
may be necessary for some public use. 

Section 3843. Private Property DeOned., Cla8set1
Enumerated: The private property which may be taken under 
this Chapter includes:
1. All real property belonging to any person; 
2. Lands belonging to this State, or to any county. incorporated
city, or city and county. village or town. not appropriated to some 
public use;
3. Property appropriated to public use; but such property sha 1 
not be taken unless for a more necessary public use than that to which
it has been already appropriated; 
4. Franchises for toll roads. toll bridges. and ferries, and all
other franchises: but such franchises shall not be taken unless for free
highways. railroads, or other more necessary public use; 
5. A 11 rights of way for any and all the purposes mentioned in Section 3841. and any and all structures and improvements thereon.
and the lands held or used in connection therewith. shall be subject
to be connected with. crossed. or intersected by any other right of
way or improvements or structures thereon. They shall also oe 
subject to a limited use. in common with the owner thereof. when
necesary: but such uses, crossings. intersections and connections shall 
he made in manner most compatible with the greatest public benefit
and least private injury: 
6. All classes of private property not enumerated may he· taken
for public use. when such taking is authorized by law. 

Section 44. Fact• 'Necew•ary to be Found Bef'ore
Cendemnatlen: Before pronerty can be taken. it must appear: 
, . That the use to which it is to he applied is a use authorized
hv law: 
., 2. That the taking is necessary to such use:
3. If already appropriated to some public use. that the public use 
to which it is to be applied is a more necessary public use

Section 3843. !lltate may 1'1nk~ Lo~a1ion and 8ur­
'f'eyt1: ln all cases where land is required for public use. the state or 
its agents in charge of such use, may survey and locate the same; 
but it must be located in the manner which will be most compatible
with the greatest public good and the least private injury, and sub­
ject to the provisions of this title. The state or its agents in charge
of such public use, may enter upon the land and make examinations,
surveys, and maps thereof. and such entry shall constitute no cause
for action in favor of the owners of the land, except for injuries
resulting from negligence. wantonness or malice. 

Section 3846. Jori•didlon in District Court: All
proceedings under this Chapter, must be brought in the district court 
for the county in which the property is situated. They must be com­
menced by filing a complaint and issuing a summons thereon. 

Section 3847'. The Complaint and it• Content•: 
The complaint must contain: 
1. The name of the corporation, association. commission, or per­
son in charge of the public use for which the property is sought.
who must be styled plaintifffs; 
2. The names of all owners and claimants of the property ii 
known, or a statement that they are unknown. who must he styled <le­
fendants; 
3. A statement of the right of the plaintifff:
4. If a right of way be sought. the complaint must show the lo­ 
cation, general route, and termini. and must he accompanied with
maps thereof; 
5. A description of each piece of land sought to be taken, and
whether the same includes the whole or only a part of an entire par­
cel or tract. All parcels lying in the county. and required for the
same public use, may be included in the same or separate proceed­
ings, at the option of the plaintifff. hut the court mav consolidate or
separate them, to suit the convenience of parties. 

Section 3848. S11mn1on,-, what to Uontaio, hew
IH11ed and SerYed: The clerk must issue a summons; which
must contain the names of the parties. a general description of the
whole property. a statement of the public use for which it is sought,
and a reference to the complaint for descriptions of the respective
parcels. and a notice to the defendants to appear and show cause 
why the property described should not be condemned as prayed for
in the complaint. In all other particulars it must be in the form of
a summons in civil actions. and must be served in like manner. 

Section 9849. Who may DeCeod, what Answer
may Show: All persons in occupation of, or having or claiming
an interest in any of the property described in the complaint, or in
the damages for the taking thereof, though not named, may appear,
plead and defend, each in respect to his own property or interest, or
that claimed by him, in like manner as if named in the complaint. 

Section 9838. Power oC Court, may Determine
what: The court shall have power: 
I. To regulate and determine the place and manner of making
connections and crossings. or of enjoying the common use mentioned 
in the fifth subdivision of Section 3843; 
2. To hear and determine all adverse or conflicting claims to the
property sought to be condemned, and to the damages therefore ; 
3. To determine the respective rights of different parties seek­
ing condemnation of the same property. 

Section 3851. Court or .Jory to A.Hesw Damagn: 
The court, jury, or referee must hear such legal testimony as may be
offered by any of the parties to the proceedings. and thereupon must 
ascertain and assess : 
I. The value of the property sought to be condemned. and all
improvements thereon pertaining to the realty. and of each and every
separate estate or interest therein; if it consists of different parcels,
the value of each parcel and each estate or interest therein shall be
separately assessed; • 
2. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes only. a
part of a larger parcel. the damages which will accrue to the portion
not sought to be condemned, by reason of its severance from the
portion sought to be condemned, and the construction of the improve·
ment in the manner proposed by the plaintifff; 
3. Separately. how much the portion not sought to be con­
demned, and each estate or interest therein. will be specially and di­
rectly benefited, if at all, by the construction of the improvement
proposed by the plaintifff; and if the benefit shall he equal! to the
damages assessed. under subdivision 2. the owner of the parcel shall
he allowed no compensation except the value of the portion taken;
hut if the benefit sha11 be less than the damages so assessed, the for­ 
mer shall be deducted from the latter, and - the remainder shall Ile 
the only damages allowed in addition to the value;
. 4. If the property sought to he condemned he for a railroad,
the cost of good and sufficient fences along the line of such railroad,
and the cost of cattle guards where fences may cross the line of such
railroad; 
5. As far as practicable. compensation must be assessed for each
-ource of damages separately. 

Section 3852. Uompen8ation A.•se8eed, 1'1easure
Ther~oC: For the purpose of assessing compensation and dam ages, the right thereto shall be deemed to have accrued at the date
of the summons, and its actual value, at that date, shall be the
measure of compensation for all property to be actually taken, and
the basis of damages to property not actually taken, but injuriously
affected, in all cases where such damages are allowed, as provided
in the last Section. No improvements put upon the property, sub­
sequent to the date of the service of summons. shall be included in
the assessment of compensation or damages. 

Section 38:13. New Proceeding• to Cure DereetiYe
Tltlq: If the title attempted to be acquired is fou~d to be defective
from any cause. the plaintifff may again institute proceedings to
acquire the same. as in this Chapter prescribed. 

Section 8S:itl.. Payment .of Damages, or" DepNit of
Bond Therefor: The plaintifff must. within thirty <lays after
final judgment. pay the sum of money assesscd : but may. at the time 
of or before payment. elect to build the fences and cattle guards:
and if he so elect. shall execute to the defendant a bond. with sure­
ties to be approved bv the court in double the assessed cost of the
same. to build such fe~ces and cattle g-uards within eight months from
the time the railroad is built on the land taken. amt if such bond is
given. need not pay the cost of such fences and catle guard. In an
action on such bond the plaintifff mav recover reasonable attorney's
fees.

Section 88:J:i. Damat;e8, to 11·hom Paid: Payment may
be made to the defendants entitled thereto. or the money may be de­
posited in court for the defendants. and he distributed to those entitled
thereto. If the money be not so paid or deposited. the defendants may
have execution as in civil cases: and if the money cannot be made on
execution, the court upon a showing to that effec.t. must set aside and
annul the entire proceedings. and restore possession of the property
to the defendant. if possession has been taken by the plaintifff. 

Section 3838. Final Order oCUondemnation. When 
Filed, Title Te•t•; When payments have been made and the 
bond given, if the plaintifff elects to give one, as required by the
last two Sections, the court must make a final order of condemna­
tion, which must describe the property condemned and the purposes
of such condemnation. A copy of the order must be filed in the of­
fice of the recorder of the county, and thereupon the property de­
scribed therein shall vest in the plaintifff for the purposes therein speer­ 
fied. 

Section 8837. Potttn« Plaintiff In PN11et111ion: At
any time after trial and judgment entered or pending on appeal from
the judgment to the supreme court, whenever the plaintifff shall have
paid into the court for the defendant, the full amount of the judg­
ment, and such further sum as shall be required by the court as r.
fund to pay any further damages and costs that may be recovered in
said proceedings as well as all damages that may be sustained by the
defendant, if for any cause the property shall not be finally taken
for public use. the district court in which the proceeding was tried
may, upon notice of not less than ten days, authorize the plaintifff if 
already in possession to continue therein, and if not, to take posses­
sion of and use the property during the conclusion of the litigation.
and may, if necessary, stay all actions and proceedings against the
plaintifff on account thereof. 
The defendant who is entitled to the money paid into court for
him upon any judgment, shall be entitled to demand and receive the
same at any time thereafter upon obtaining an order therefore from
the court. It sha11 be the duty of the court or the judge thereof, upon
application being made hy such defendant. to order and direct that
the money so paid into court for him, to be delivered to him upon his
filing a satisfaction of the judgment or upon his filing a receipt
therefore and an abandonment of all defenses to the action or proceed­
ing except as to the amount of damages that he may be entitled to in
the event that a new trial shall be granted. A payment to a de­ 
fendant as aforesaid sha'I be held to be an abandonment by such de­
fendant of all defenses interposed by him excepting his claim for
greater compensation. The court may order· the money to be depos­
ited in the county treasury, and in such case it shall be the duty of
the treasurer to receive a11 such monies. duly receipt for, and safely
keep the same and to p~.y out such monies in such manner, and at
such times as the court or judge thereof may direct. and for such
duty he shall be liable to the plaintifff on his official bond. Pro­
vided, further, That at any time after the commencement of proceed­
ings, in the district court, as provided for in this Chapter, to condemn 
property and upon ten days' notice to the adverse party, the district
court or the judge thereof, mcly appoint three disinterested persons.
who shall be residents of the county in which the land is situated us
commissioners to assess and determine the damages that the defend­
ant will sustain by reason of the condemnation and appropriation of
the property described in the complaint. and the said commissioners
shall. before entering upon the discharge of their duties, take and
subscribe an oath to faithfully and impartially discharge their duties
as such commissioners. Such commissioners shall give in writing at 
least five days' notice of the time and place where they will meet for
the purpose aforesaid, which place. unless agreed upon between the
two parties. shall be within five miles of the premises aforesaid : at
the time and place mentioned in such notice they may administer
oaths to witnesses. and hear the evidence offered by the parties. and
after viewing the premises shall report in writing their procedings
and the damages which they find the defendant will sustain by rea­
son of the condemnation and appropriation of said property, which re­
port shall he signed by said commissioners. or a majority thereof.
and be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court in which
such action shall be pending: and at any time after payment to the
defendant of the amount so assessed and found bv said commissioners
as damages. or in case the defendant shall refuse to receive the same.
then at any time after such amount shall be deposited with the clerk
of said court to abide the result of said action. the plaintifff may en­
ter upon and take possession of and use the property mentioned in
the complaint. until the final conclusion of the litigation concerning
the same. Prorided . further. That at the time of making such pay­
ment to the defendant of the amount so assessed and found by said
commissioners as damages. or in case the defendant shall refuse tn 
receive the same. then at anv time after such amount shall be de­
Posited with the clerk of said· court to abide the result of said action.
the plaintifff may elect to build the fences, cattle guards and other
structures by said commissioners found to he necessary: and may ex­
ecute to the defendants a hond as provided in Section ~854.

Section 3858. Cost11 Allowed, Distribution Thetto,: 
Costs may he allowed or not. and if allowed, may be apportioned
between the parties on the same or adverse sides. in the discretion of
the court.

Section 3859. Provlsion11 Applicable to Proceedlngt11·
11nder thlt1 Chapter: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of this Code relative to civil actions and new
trials and appeals. are applicable to and constitute the rules of prac ·
tice in the proceedings in this Chapter. 

Section 3860. Exceptions: Nothing in this Code must be construed to abrogate or repeal any statute providing for the taking of property in any city or town for street purposes.

Section 8881. A.ctlon f'or Ri,rht of Way. Petillo•: 
When the owner, claimant. or occupant of any mine or mining
claim desires to work the same, and it is necessary to enable him to d«
so successfully and conveniently. that he have a right of way for any of
the purposes mentioned in Sections 2572 and 2573 of the Civil Code, 
if such right of way cannot be acquired by agreement with the claim­
ant or owner of the lands or claims over, under, through, across or
upon which he seeks to acquire such right of way. he may commence
an action in the district court in anll for the county in which such
right of way, or some part thereof, is situated, by filing a verified
complaint containing a particular description of the character and ex­
tent of the right sought, a description of the mine or claim of the plain­
tiff, and of the mine or claim and lands to be affected by such right of
way or privilege, with the name of the occupant or owner thereof. He
may also set forth any tender of compensation that he may have made.
and demand the relief sought. 

Section 3889. Sommons, ln•oran~e and 8erTlce: 
Upon the filing of such complaint the clerk must issue a summons as
provided in other civil actions, and the same must be served in the
manner prescribed by law for service in ordinary actions. 

Section 3883. Bearing. £omm1Hlener•. Trial: At 
any time after the service of the summons the plaintifff may upon
ten days notice to the defendant apply to the district court or the
judge thereof for the appointment of commissioners. to assess the
damages resulting from the grant of such right of way. If upon the
Ii earing of such motion. and the affidavit and proofs offered by the
respective parties. the judge shall be of the opinion that the plaintifff
has made a prima facie case entitling him to the relief demanded in
the complaint. or any part thereof. he shall appoint three commis­
sioners, who must he disinterested persons. residents of the county.
to assess the damages resulting to the claims. mines. or lands of de­
fendant. But if such commissioners are not applied for and ap­
pointed. or their award is not approved by the judge or court, or if 
an appeal is taken from their award as hereinafter provided. the
action shaII hue tried and determined by the court, and the provisions
of the Code of Civil Procedure applicable thereto shall govern the
proceedings therein as in other civil actions; either party shall be
entitled to a jury trial and may move for a new trial and appeal as in
other cases. 

Section 188.f. Oath, Report: The commissioners so a!)­
pointed must be sworn to faithfully and impartially discharge their
duties, and must proceed without unreasonable delay to examine the
premises and assess the damages resulting from such right or priv­ 
ilege prayed for. and report the amount of the same to the judge ap­
pointing them, and if such right of way affects the property of more
than one person or company, such report must contain an assessment
of damages to each company or person. 

Section 388:1. Repert. when 8et A•ide: For g-oGd
cause shown, the judge may set aside the report of such commission­
ers. and appoint three other, commissioners whose duty shall be the
sa me as above mentioned. 

Section 3868. Right• 11pen Payment or Tender: 
Upon the payment of the sum assessed as damages as aforesaid. to
the persons to whom it is awarded, or a tender thereof to them. then 
the person petitioning as aforesaid, is entitled to the right of way
prayed for in his petition. and may immediately proceed to occupy
the same and erect thereon such works and structures. and make
therein such excavations as may be necessary to the use and enjoy­
ment of the right of way so awarded. 

Section 887. Appeal: Appeals from the assessment. of
damages made by the commissioners, may be made and prosecuted
in the proper district court by any party interested, at any time
within ten days days after the filing of the report of the commissioners .
A written notice of such appeal must be served upon the appellee in
the same manner as summons are served in civil actions. The
appellant must file with the clerk of the court to which the appeal is 
made, a bond of the sureties to be approved by the clerk in the
amount of the assessment appealed from in favor of the appellee, con­
ditioned that the appellant will pay any costs that may be awarded
to the appellee. and abide any judgment that may be rendered in 
the cause. 

Section 8S. Trial eo Appeal: An appeal brings before
the district court the necessity of the right of way or easement for 
the successful and convenient working of the mining claim and the
amount of damages : and upon such appeal the case must be tried
anew, and either party is entitled to a jury. 

Section 8889. Rights Pending Appeal: The prosecu­
tion of an appeal from the award of the commissioners or from the
judgment of the district court does not hinder, delay or prevent the
plaintifff from exercising all the rights and privileges granted by the 
award or judgment, if he deposit with the clerk of the district court
the full amount of the damages awarded or adjudged the defendant
and execute and deliver to the clerk a bond with sufficient sureties
to be approved by the clerk, in an amount to be fixed by the judge
of the district court, conditioned to pay to the defendant any addi­
tional amount, over and above the amount so deposited, that defend­
ant may recover, and all costs to which he may be entitled under the
provision- of this Chapter. At any time after such deposit and he­
fore the final determination of the action the defendant may, upon
demand, receive from the clerk the amount so deposited, but his
acceptance of the same, or any part thereof, shall bar any further
prosecution of the appeal and shall be deemed an acquiescence and
consent to the award and judgment, and the defendant shall not be
entitled to any costs subsequent to the deposit. 

Section 3870. CNt• on Appeal: If the defendant recover
judgment against the necessity of the easement, or for fifty dollars
more damages than the plaintifff has tendered him as provided in the
next Section, or for, fifty dollars more damages than the commis­
sioners or judgment of the district court awarded him, he shall re­
cover the costs of the appeal, otherwise he must pay all such costs.

Section 3871. Ce•t•: The cost and expenses of proceedings
under the provisions of this subdivision, except as herein otherwise
provided, must be paid by the party making the application; pro­
vided, that if the applicant before the commencement of such pro­
ceedings, has tendered to the parties owning or occupying the lands
or mining claims. a sum equal to or more than the amount of dam­
ages recovered. all of the costs and expenses must be paid by the
party or parties owning the lands or claims affected by such right of
way, and who appeared and resisted the claim of the applicants 
thereto. 

Section 387g. .Jnri•dietion: Application for change o i 
names must be heard and determined by the district courts. 

Section 3S73. A.pplicaUon ror Chanse oC Name of
Corporation: AlI applications for change of names must be made
to the district court of the county where the person whose name is
proposed to he changed resides. by petition. signed by such person ; 
and if such person is under twenty-one years of age, if a male, and
under the age of eighteen years, ii a female, by one of the parents,
if living; or if both be dead, then· by the guardian; and if there be
no guardian, then by some near relative or friend. The petition
must specify the place of birth and residence of such person, his or
her present name, the name proposed, and the reason for such change
of name, and must, if the father of such person be not living, name,
as far as known to the petitioner, the near relatives of such person,
and their place of residence. Any religious, benevolent, literary, or
scientific corporation, or any corporation bearing or having for its
name, or using or being known by the name of any benevolent or
charitable order, or society, may by petition, apply to the district
court of the county in which the property of said corporation is
situated, for a change of is corporate name. Such petition must be
signed by the trustees of the corporation, or by a majority of them,
and must specify the date of the formation of the corporation, its
present name, the name proposed, and the reason for such change of
name. Upon filing such petition on behalf of such corporation, the
same proceedings must be had as upon applications for changes of 
names of natural persons. 

Section 387 4. Publica1ioo ot· Pe1ition for: A copy oi 
such petition must be published for four successive weeks, in some
newspaper printed in the county, if a newspaper be printed therein,
but if no newspaper be printed in the county, a copy of such peti­
tion must be posted at three of the most public places in the county
for a like period, and proofs must be made of such publication before
the petition can be considered. 

Section 3873. Bearios oC A.pplicatioo and Remoo­
etrance: Such application must be heard at such time during term
as the court may appoint, and objections may be filed by any person
who can, in such objections, show to the court, good reason against
such change of name. On the hearing the court may examine, up­
on oath, any of the petitioners, remonstrants, or other persons, touch­
ing the application, and may make an order changing the name or
dismissing the application, as to the court may seem right and proper. 

Section 3878. What Submitted te A.rbitratietn: Per­
sons capable of contracting may submit to arbitration any contro­ 
versy which might be the subject of civil action between them, ex­
cept a question of title to real property in fee or for life. This quali­
fication does not include questions relating merely to the partition or
boundaries of real property. 

Section 3877. SubmiHion to Arbitrati•n to be in
Wri tins: The submission to arbitration must be in writing, and
may be to one or more persons. 

Section 387S. Snbmi••ion Ealered a• an Order of
Court. Revocation: It may be stipulated in the submission,
that it be entered as an order of the district court, for which purpose
it must be filed with the clerk of said court for a county where the
parties, or one of them reside. The clerk must thereupon enter in
his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of
the parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission,
when filed, and the time limited by the submission, if any, within
which the award must be made. When so entered, the submission
cannot be revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitra­
tors may be compelled by the court to make an award, and the award
may be enforced by the court in the same manner as a judgment.
If the submission is not made an order of the court, it may be revoked
at any time before the award is made. 

Section 3879. Pewen oC A.rbitrater•: Arbitrators
have power to appoint a time and place for hearing, to adjourn from
time to time, to administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations
and evidence of the parties, and to make an award thereon. 

Section 3880. Majority oC A.rbitrator8 Determine
Qaetttlone. Must be Sworn: All the arbitrators must meet
and act together during the investigation; but when met, a majority
may determine any question. Before acting they must be sworn be­
fore an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithful1y and fairly
to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in
relation to the matters in controversy. and to make a just award 
according to their understanding.

Section 3881. A.ward to be in Writins. When
.Judg•ent Entered: The award must be in writing. signed by 
the arbitrators. or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties.
When the submission is made an order of the court. the award must
he filed with the clerk. and a note thereof made in his register .
. \ fter the expiration of five days from the filing of the award, upon 
the application of a party and on filing of an affidavit showing that
notice of filing the award has been served on the adverse party or his
attorney at least four days prior to such application, and that no
order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the award must
be entered by the clerk in the judgment book, and thereupon has
the effect of a judgment. 

Section 388~. A.ward may be Vacated in Uertain
Ua•e•: The court on motion may vacate the award upon either or 
the following grounds, and may order i new hearing before the same
arbitrators, or not, in its discretion: 
1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud; 
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or committed
gross error in refusing on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or
in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise acted improperly;
in a manner by which the rights of the party were prejudiced; 
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their
award; or that they refused, or improperly omitted to consider a part 
of the matters submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite or
cannot be performed. 

Section 3883. Court may, on 1'1.otion, Modify the 
.A.ward: The court may, on motion, modify or correct the awarcl
where it appears: 
1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon which it was
made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or
property therein ; 
2. When a part of the award is upon matters not submitted,
which part can be separated from other parts, and does not affect the
decision on the matters submitted; 
3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could have been
amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded. 

Section 38S4. Deci•ion on 1'1otioo, Subject to A.p­ 
peal: The decision upon either motion is subject to appeal in the
same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action; 
but the judgment, if entered before a motion made. cannot be sub­
ject to appeal. 

Section 3~8:1.~lt ~ubmi .. ion BoYoked and .&ctlon
Brought, what RecoYered: If a submission to arbitration be
revoked, and an action brought therefore, the amount to be recovered
can only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and at­
tending the arbitration. 

Section 3888. Who may Become Nole Traden: A
married woman may become a sole trader by the judgment of the dis­
trict court of the county in which she has resided for six months
next preceding the application. 

Section 3887. .Netice, how GiYen and what to Uon­
tain : A person intending to make application to become a sole
trader, must publish notice of such intention in a newspaper pub­
lished in the county, or if none, then in a newspaper published in an
adjoining county, for four successive weeks. The notice must specify
the term, and the day upon which the application will be made, the
nature and place of the business proposed to be conducted by her, and
the name of her husband. 

Section 3888. Petition, 11·hat to Contain: Ten days
prior to the day named in the notice, the applicant must file a veri­ 
fied petition, setting forth: 
1. That the application is made in good faith, to enable the ap­
plicant to support herself, or herself and others dependent upon her,
giving their names and relation; 
2. The fact of insufficient support from her husband, and the
causes thereof, if known; 
3. Any other grounds of application which are good causes for a
divorce, with the reason why a divorce is not sought; and, 
4. The nature of the business proposed to be conducted, and the
capital to be invested therein. if any. and the sources from which it 
is derived. 

Section 3SS9. A.mount oC Capital Limited: The ap­
plicant may invest in the business proposed to be, a sum derived
from the community property, or of the separate property of the 
husband, not exceeding five hundred dollars. 

Section 3890. Who may Oppo•e it and how: Any
creditor of the husband may oppose the application, by filing in the 
court (prior to the day named in the notice) a written opposition
verified, containing either; 
1. A specified denial of the truth of any material allegation of
the petition ; or setting forth, 
2. That the application is made for the purpose of defrauding the
opponent; or, 
3. That the application is made to prevent, or will prevent, him
from collecting his debt. 

Section 3891. Trial or Bearing: On the day named in
the notice, or on such other day to which the hearing may be post­
poned by the court, the applicant must make proof of publication of
the notice hereinbefore required, and the issues of fact joined, if
any, must be tried as in other cases; if no issues are joined, the court
must hear the proofs of the applicant, and find the facts in accord­
ance therewith. 

Section 3899. Decree what it mu•t be: If the facts
found sustain the petition, the court must render judgment, author­
izing the applicant to carry on in her own name and on her own ac­
count, the business specified in the notice and petition. 

Section 3893. Oath, Copy or Order to be Becordf'd: 
The sole trader must make, and file with the clerk of the court, an
affidavit, in the following form: "I, A. B., do, in the presence oi 
Almighty God. solemnly swear that this application was made in
good faith, for the purpose of enabling me to support myself ( and 
any dependant. such as husband, parent, sister, child, or the like,
naming them, if any), and not with any view to defraud, delay or
hinder any creditor, or creditors of my husband; and that, of the
monies so to be used by me in business, not more than five hundred
dollars have come. either directly or indirectly. from my husband. 
So help me God."
A certified copy of the decree. with this oath indorsed thereon. 
must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the county where
the business is to he carried on. in a hook to he kept for such purpose. 

Section 389t:. Ri&"ht• and Liabllidf'• of" 8ole
Trader•: \ Vhen the judgment is made and entered. and a copy
thereof, with the affidavit provided for in the last section duly re- 
corded, the person therein named is entitled to carry on the business
specified, in her own name, and the property, revenues, monies, and
credits so by her invested, and the profits thereof, belong exclusiely
to her, and are not liable for any debts of her husband ; and she
thereafter has all the privileges of and is liable to all legal processes
provided for debtors and creditors, and may sue and be sued alone,
without being joined with her husband; Provided, however, That
she shall not be at liberty to carry on said business in any other
county than that named in the published notice, until she has re­
corded in such other county a copy of said judgment and affidavit. 

Section 3893. Sole Trader mu•t Maintain Ber
Children: .:\ married woman who is adjudged a sole trader is
responsible and liable for the maintenance of her minor children. 

Section 3896. Bu•baod oCSole Trader not Liable .f'or
Debt•: The husband of a sole trader is not liable for any debts
contracted by her in the course of her sole trader's business, unless
contracted upon his written consent. 

Section 3897. RelieC ProYided; other A.ssisnment•
Void: Every insolvent debtor may, upon compliance with the pro­
visions of this Chapter, be discharged from his debts and liabili­ 
ties.

Section 3S9S. Commencement oC Proceeding•: 1'he
filing of the petition upon which an order of adjudication in in­
solvency may be made. shall be deemed to be the commencement of 
proceedings in insolvency under this Chapter. 

Section 3899. Petition: An insolvent debtor. owing debts
exceeding in amount the sum of three hundred dollars. may apply 
y petition to the district court of the county, in which he has re­
sided for six months next preceding the filing of his petition, to be
discharged from his debts and liabilities. In his petition he must
set forth his place of residence. his inability to pay all his debts in
full. his wi11ingness to surrender all · his estate and effects· for the
benefit of his creditors, and his desire to obtain a discharge from his
debts and liabilities. and must annex thereto a schedule and inven­
tory. and valuation, in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
The filing of such petition is an act of s insolvency. and thereupon 
such petitioner must be adjudged an insolvent debtor. 

Section 3900. Mch~dole: Said schedule must contain a fut1
and true statement of all his debts and liabilities. exhibitinz, to the
best of his knowledze and belief. to whom said debts or liabilities
are due. the place of residence of his creditors. and the sum due to
each: the nature of the indebtedness or demand, whether founded on
written securitv. obligation. contract or otherwise: the true cause
and consideration thereof. and the time and nlace when and where
said indebtedness accrued, and a statement of any existing- pledze.
lien. mortgage. judgment. or other security for the payment of the
same. 

Section 3901. lnYentory: ~airl inventorv must contain ~-~
accurate description of all the estate. hoth real amt nersonal, of the
netitioner, includinz his homestead, if anv, and all nropertv exempt
hv law from execution. and where the same is situated. and all incurn- 
brances thereon. 

Section 8909. A.flldarit: The netition, schedule. and in­
ventory must be verified by the affidavit of the petitioner. annexed
thereto. and must be in form substantially as follows: 
[ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . do solemnly swe::tr that the schedule and
inventory now delivered by me contain a full. nerfect and true dis­ 
covery of all the estate. real. personal and mixed v.no<ls and effects.
to me fo any way belonging': all such debts as are to me owing. or
to any person or persons in trust for me. and all securities and con­
tracts. and contracts whereby any money may hereafter become pay­
able. or any benefit or advantage accrue to me or to my use. or to
any other person or persons in trust for me: that I have no fonds.
monev. stock or estate. reversion or exnectancv. beside that set forth
in rnv schedule and inventorv : that T have in· no instance created or
:1ckn~wledP-ect a debt for a · ~reater sum than I honestlv and trnlv
owe: that T have not directly or Indirectly. sold or otherwise dis­
nosed of or concea led. anv nart of mv nronertv. effects or contracts :
that I have not. in contemplation of insolvency. in any way com- 
pounded with my creditors whereby to secure the same, or to receive.
or to expect any profit or advantage therefrom, or to defraud or
deceive any creditor to whom I am indebted in any manner. So 
help me God.

Section 9903. Order TrausCerring Prope-rty. 8tay 
of Pr~eediogtu Upon receiving and filing such petition,
schedule and inventory, the court. or the judge thereof, must make
an order declaring the petitioner insolvent, and directing the sheriff
of the county to take possession of all the estate, real and persona),
of the debtor, except such as may be by law exempt from execution,
and of all his deeds. vouchers. books of account and papers, and to
keep the same safely until the appointment of an assignee. Such
order must further forbid the payment of any debts and the delivery
of any property belonging to such debtor. to him or for his use, and
the transfer of any property by him. and must further appoint a
time and place, in open court or at chambers, for a meeting of the
creditors to prove their debts and choose an assignee of the estate.
which must not be less than thirty days after the making of said
order. and shall designate a newspaper or newspapers of general
circulation in which publication thereof must be made. Upon the
granting of said order. all proceedings against the said insolvent are
stayed. 
.

Section 3904. Publication: A copy of said order must irr­
mediately be published by the clerk of said court. in the newspaper
or newspapers designated therein. as often as the newspaper is
printed before the meeting of creditors, and he served by the clerk
forthwith by United States mail, postage prepaid. or personally. on alt
creditors named in the schedule. The order of adjudication must
direct the publication ther eof in ?. newspaper published in the county
in which the petition is filed. if there be one. and if there be none.
in a newspaper published. nearest to such county: Provided, That no
order of adjudication must be entered unless there first be deposited
with the clerk in addition to the usual cost of commencing said pro­
ceedings. a sum of money sufficient to defray the cost of the publica­
tions ordered by the court. and ten cents for each copy to be mailed
to. or served on, the creditors. which. latter sum is hereby constituted
the legal fee of the clerk for the mailing or service required in this Section. 

Section 9983. Eledion of' A.Hil'nec; Bond: At the time 
and place a~pointed for the m~etin~ of the creditors to prove their 
debts and choose an assignee, those having proven their claims, by fil­
ing a verified statement showing the amount, nature and security, if
any, must proceed to the election of one assignee. The assignee
must be a resident of the county where the insolvent resides, or
where he has carried on his business. In electing an assignee, the
opinion of the majority in amount of claim must prevail. If the
meeting of the creditors is held in open court the clerk of the court
must keep a minute of the deliberations of the creditors, and of the
election and appointment of the assignee. If the meeting be at
chambers, the judge must certify the result of the deliberations of the
creditors, and of the election and appointment of the assignee. and
shall file said certificate with the clerk of the court. The assignee
must file. within five days. unless the time be extended by the court
or judge. with the clerk. a bond. in an amount to be fixed by the
court, or judge. with two or more sufficient sureties to be approved
by the court or judge, and conditioned for the faithful performance
of the duties devolving upon him. The bond is not void upon the
first recovery. but may be sued upon from time to time by any credi­
tor aggrieved. in his own name. until the whole penalty is exhausted.
The sureties on such bond may he required to justify upon the applica­
tion of any party interested. in the same manner as bait upon arrest in
civil cases. 

Section 3908. Awtd,rnee, wh .. n Appointed: If. on the 
<lay appointed for the meeting. the creditors do not attend, or refuse
to elect an assignee. or if after election. the assignee fails to qualify
within the proper time. the court or judg-e. before whom the said
meeting takes place. may appoint an assignee and fix the amount of
his bond. 

Section 390'7. .&wsl,rnment: As soon as the assignee is ap­
pointed and qualified. the clerk of the court must. by an instrument
under his hand and seal of the court. assign and convey to the
assigneee all the estate. real and personal. of the debtor. with all his
deeds. books. and papers relating thereto. and such assignment re­
lates hack to the commencement of the proceedings in insolvency. 
and by operation of law vests the title to all such property and
estate. both real and personal. in the assignee. Such assignment 
vests in the assignee all the estate of the insolvent debtor not exempt 
by law from execution, suhject to the lawful and bona fide liens and
encumbrances thereon. 

Section 3908. A.nthority oC A.l!i•lgnee: The assignee has
the right to recover all estate, debts and effects of said insolvent. 
If, at the time of the commencement of proceedings in insolvency,
an action is pending in the name of the debtor, for the recovery of a
debt or other thing which might or ought to pass to the assignee by
the assignment, the assignee must be allowed and admitted to prose­
cute the action in like manner and with like effect as if it had been
originally commenced by him. In suits prosecuted by 'the assignee,
a certified copy of the assignment made to him is conclusive evidence
of his authority to sue. 

Section 3909. Re~ordiDI' A.Hignments: The assignee
must within one month after the making of the assignment to him. 
cause the same to be recorded in every county within this State.
where anv lands owned bv the debtor are situated and the record of
such assignment. or a duh· certified copy thereof. is conclusive evi­
dence thereof in all courts. 

Section 3910. Re,dgoation eC A.Hignee: Any assignee
may at any time. by writing filed in court. resign his appointment,
having first settled his accounts, and delivered up all the estate to
such successor as the court or judge may appoint; Provided, That !!
in the discretion of the court or judge the circumstances of the case
require it, upon good cause being shown. the court or judge may at
any time before such settlement of account and delivery of the estate
is completed, revoke the appointment of such assignee. and appoint
another in his stead. The liability of the outgoing assignee, or of 
the sureties on his bond is not in any manner discharged. released or 
affected by such appointment of another in his stead. 

Section 3911. Pow en or A.Hi~n e ._.: The assignee has
power: 
I. To sue in his own name, and recover all the estate, debts, and
things in action. belonging or due to such debtor. and no set-off or 
counterclaim must be allowed in any such suit for any debt, unless
it was owing to such creditor by such debtor at the time of the ad­
judication of his insolvency; 
2. To take into his possession all the estate of such debtor, ex­ 
cept property exempt by law from execution. whether delivered to
him or afterwards discovered. and all books. vouchers. evidences of
indebtedness, and securities belonging to the same; 
3. From time to time to sell at public auction all the estate, real
and personal. vested in him as such assignee. as ordered by the 
court; 
4. On such sales to execute the necessary conveyances and bills of
sale; 
sa e;
14.
5. To redeem all valid mortgages and conditional contracts, and
a11 valid pledges of personal property. and to satisfy any judgments
which may be an encumbrance on any property sold by him, or to
sell such property subject to such mortgage, contracts, pledges, or 
5.
judgments;
6. To settle all matters and accounts between such debtor and 
his debtors, subject to the approval of the court;
7. Under the order of the court appointing him. to compound 
with any person indebted to such debtor, and thereupon to discharge
all demands against such person; 
8. To have and recover from any person receiving a conveyance,
gift, transfer, payment or assignment, made fraudulently or contrary
to any provisions of this Chapter. the property thereby transferred or
assigned. or in case a redelivery of the property cannot be had, to
recover the value thereof. with damages for the detention.

Section 391~. DeliYery oC Reola and Papen: The
insolvent must. either before or on the day appointed for the meeting 
of creditors. deliver to the court a11 the commercial or account books
he may have kept. which hooks must be deposited in the clerk's office
of said court. 
Said insolvent must also deliver to the court. at the same time. all
vouchers. notes, bonds. hills. securities. or other evidences of debt. 
in °any manner relating to or having any bearing upon or connection
with the property surrendered hy said debtor. and a 11 such papers or
securities must he deposited in the clerk's office of said court. and 
the clerk must deliver them. together with the hooks of the insolv­
ent. to the assignee who may he appointed. 

Section 991 a. Embezzlement: If any person, before the
assignment is made. having notice of the commencement of proceed­ 
ings in insolvency. embezzles or disposes of any of the monies.
goods. chattels. or effects of the insolvent. he is chargeable there­
with. and liable to an action by the assignee for double the value of
the property so embezzled or disposed of. to he recovered for the 
benefit of the estate. 

Section 3914. PenaUieti, Pencon!I Uoncealing Prop­
erty oCDebtor: The same penalties. forfeitures. and proceedings
by citation. examination. and commitment apply on behalf of an
assignee against persons suspected of having concealed. embezzled.
conveyed away or disposed of any property of the debtor. or of hav­
ing possession or knowledge of any deeds, conveyances. bonds, con· 
tracts, or other writings which relate to any interest of the debtor in
any real or personal estate, as provided in the case of the estates of
deceased persons. 

Section 3913. •:xaanination oC Debtor: The court or
judge may. upon the application of the assignee, or of any creditor
of the debtor or without any application before or after adjudication
in insolvency, examine upon oath the debtor in relation to his prop erty and his estate, and any person tendering or making proof of
claims. may subpoena witnesses to give evidence relating to such
matters. All examinations of witnesses must be had and depositions
must be taken in accordance with and in the same manner as is pro­
vided by the Code of Civil Procedure.

Section 3916. Estate ()ooTerted into l'flooey. Prh'at~
~•le: The assignee must. as speedily as possible, convert the
estate. real and personal, into money. He must keep a regular ac­
count of all monies received by him as assignee, to which every
creditor, or other person interested therein may, at all reasonable
times. have access. No private sale of any property of the estate of 
an insolvent dehtor is valid unless made under the order of the court 
upon a petition in writing. which must set forth the facts showing
the sale to be necessary. If it appears that a private sale is for the
best interests of the estate. the court or judge may order it to he 
made.

Section 3917'. Sale of Perl•hable Property: When it
appears to the satisfaction of the court or judge that the estate of the
debtor. or any part thereof. is of a perishable nature, or is liable ro 
deteriorate in value. or is disproportionately expensive to keep. the
court or judge may order the same to be sold in such manner as may
he deemed most expedient, under the direction of the sheriff or as­
signee. as the case may be. who must hold the funds reecived in
place of the property sold until the further order of the court. 

Section 391~. Otltstanding Debt8: Outstanding debts,
or other property due or belonging to the estate. which cannot be 
collected and received hy the assignee without unreasonable or incon­
venient delay or expense. may he sold and assigned in like manner
as the remainder of the estate. 

Section 3919. A.II Debt• may bf' Proved: All debts
due and payable from the debtor at the time of the adjudication of 
insolvency, and all debts then existing but not payable until a fu­
ture time. a rebate of interest being made, when no interest is pay­ 
able by the terms of the contract, may be proved against the estate
of the debtor. 

Section 3990. Proot· of Demandtt f'or Tortiou8 A.d•:
All demands against the debtor for or on account of any goods or chat­ 
tels wrongfully taken, converted, or withheld by him may be proved
and allowed as debts. to the amount of the value of the property so
withheld, from the time of the conversion. 


Se~tion 8991. ProoC Demand• A.gain•t Debtor a11 
Surety: If the debtor is bound as indorser. surety. bail or guar­
antor. upon any bin. bond, note. or other specialty or contract, or
for any debt of another person. and his liability has not become ab­
solute until the adjudication of insolvency, the creditor may prove
the same after such Iiabilitv becomes fixed, and before the final dividend is declared. · 

Section 3999. Contingent Llabiliflew: In all cases of con­
tingent debts. and contingent 1iabi1ities contracted by the debtor and
not herein otherwise provided for. the creditor may make claim
thereforee and have has claim a11owed, with the right to share in the
dividends if the contingency happens before the order for the final
dividend. or he may. at any time. apply to the court or judge to 
have the present value of the debtor 1iabi1ity ascertained and liqui­
dated. which must be done in such manner as the court or judge may
order. and must he allowed to prove for the amount so ascertained. 

Section 3993. Penon I~inble ror Debtor may Pro~e
Debt: Any nerson liafile as hai1. surety. or guarantor. or other­
wise. for the debtor who has paid the debt, or any part thereof. in
discharge of the whole. is entitled to prove such debt. or to stand in
the place of the creditor. if he has proved the same. although such
payments are made after the nroceedings in insolvency were com­
menced: and anv person so liable for the debtor. and who has not
paid the whole ~f said debt, hut is still liable for the same. or anv
part thereof. may. if the creditor fails or omits to prm·e such dehi.. 
prove the same in the name of the creditor.

Section 3994. Rent and lntttallment Debtw: When~
the debtor is liable to nay rent. or other debt falling due at fixed and
stated periods. the creditor may prove. for a proportionate part there­
of up to the time of the insolvency. as if the same became due from
day to <lay. and not at such fixed and stated periods. 
 
Section 399:1. lffotual Credit", Set-ofi and Counter­
Claims: In all cases of mutual debts and mutual credits between 
the parties, the account between them must be stated, and one debt
set off against the other. and· the balance only allowed and paid.
But no set-off or counterclaim must be allowed of a claim in its
nature not provable against the estate, or in favor of any debtor to
the insolvent of a claim purchased by or transferred to him after the
filing of the petition, for the purpose of making such set-off or coun­ 
terclaim. 

Section 39~6. l'tlortgage• and Pled&"ell!I A.a-ainat Debtor: 
When a creditor has a mortgage or pledge of real or personal prop­
erty of the debtor, or a lien thereon, for securing the payment of a
debt owing to him from the debtor. he must be admitted as a cred­
itor only for the balance of the debt, after deducting the value of
such property. to be ascertained by agreement between him and the
assignee. or by a sale thereof. to be made in such manner as the
court or judge may direct: or the creditor may release or convey his
claim to the assignee. upon such property. and be admitted to prove
his whole debt. If the value of the property exceeds the sum for
which it is so held as security. the assignee may release to the cred­
itor the debtor's right of redemption thereon on receiving such ex­
cess; or he may sell the property. subject to the claim of the creditor
thereon, and in either case the assignee and creditor respectively must
execute all deeds and writings necessary or proper to consummate the
transaction. If the property is not sold or released. and delivered up.
the creditor must not be allowed to prove any part of his debt.

Section 392'7. At1achnu~nt Liens. Co8t8 in Conte8ted
Jffatter8: When an attachment has heen made and is not dissolved
hefore the commencement of proceedings in insolvency. or is dis­
solved by an undertaking given hy the defendant. if the claim upon
which the attachment suit was commenced is proved against the es­ 
tate of the debtor. the plaintifff may prove the leg-al costs and dis­
hursernents of the suit. and of the keeping of the property. and the
amount thereof is a preferred debt. 

Section 39~S. Creditor Pro,·inr; Clainn Wahe,i Right
oC A.ction: No creditor proving his debt or claim must he allowed 
to maintain any suit at law or in equity therefore against the debtor, 
but is deemed to have waived all right of action and suit against
him, and all proceedings already commenced, are deemed to be dis­
charged and surrendered thereby; Provided, That no valid lien ex­
isting in goo<l faith thereunder is thereby affected ; and, further
provided, That a creditor proving his debt or claim is not held to have
waived his right of action or suit against the debtor where a discharge
is refused, or the proceedings are determined without a discharge. 

Section 39g9. Account• ot· A.Higoee: At the expiration
of three months from the appointment of the assignee in any case, or
as much earlier as the judge may direct, the assignee must exhibit to 
the judge and to the creditors, and file, just and true accounts of all
his receipts and payments, verified by his oath, and a statement of
the property outstanding, specifying the cause of its outstanding; also
what debts or claims are yet undertermined, and stating what sum re­
mains in his possession, and thereupon a dividend must be made,
unless for cause the court or judge otherwise order. Thereafter,
further accounts, statements, and dividends must be made in like man­
ner as often as occasion requires. 

Section 3930. Orden for Accounts and Di•tribu­
tion: The court or judge must at any time, upon the motion of any
two or more creditors, require the assignee to file his account, and if
he has funds subject to distribution, he must be required to distribute
them without delay. 

Section 3931. Di•charge ot· A.1111ignee: Should the a~- 
siguee refuse or neglect to render his accounts, or to pay over a di \·i­
dend when he has, in the opinion of the court or judge, sufficient
funds for that purpose, the court or judge must immediately dis­ 
charge such assignee from his trust, and appoint another in his place.
The assignee so discharged must forthwith deliver over to the as­
signee appointed, all the funds, property, books, vouchers, or securities
belonging to the insolvent, without charging or retaining anv c..r.i­ 
mission or compensation for his personal services

Section 393~. Final Account of· A.s,dgnee: Prl'p;1ra­ 
tory to the final account and dividend, the assignee must sul ,mi t his 
account to the court, and file the same, and must at the time of fil­ 
ing. accompany the same with an affidavit that notice by m.i il has
been gi,·en tu all the creditors who have proved their claims : that he 
will apply for a settlement of his account, and for a discharge trorn
all liability as assignee at a time specified in such notice, whicn time
must be not less than ten or more than twenty days from such filing.
At the hearing, the court must audit the account, and any person
interested may appear and file exceptions in writing, and contest the
same. The court thereupon must settle the account and order a
dividend of any portion of the estate remaining undistributed, and
discharge the assignee, subject to compliance with the order cf the
court, from all liability as assignee to any creditor of the insolvent. 

Section 3933. Ureditor11 to l!lhare Pre, Kata: Ali
creditors whose <lebts are duly proved and allowed are entitled to 
share in the property and estate pro rata, without priority or prefer­
ence whatever, other than as provided in this Chapter; Provided, That
any debt proved by any P' ~ u11 lml-le as l-arl. surety, guarantor, or
otnerwise, for the debtor, must not be paid to the person so proving
the same until satisfactory evidence is produced of the payment of
such debt by such person so liable; and the share to which such debt
would be entitled may be paid into court, or otherwise held fur the
benefit of the party entitled thereto, as the court may direct, 

Section 3934. Dh'ideods not Dilfturbed Cor Sub·
sequeolly Proved Debt•: No dividend already declared,
must be disturbed by reason of debts being subsequently proved, but
the creditors proving such debts, are entitled to a dividend equal to
those already received by the other creditors, before any further divi­
dend is made to the latter; Provided, The failure to prove such claim 
has not resulted from the creditor's own neglect. 

Section 8933. E1.pea•et1, Management ot· Property,
£ommis1!1ioo•: Assig_nees must be allowed all necessary ex­
penses in the care, management, and settlement of the estate, and
are collectively entitled to charge and receive for their services, com­
missions upon all sums of money coming to their hands and account­
ed for by them, as follows: For the first thousand dollars, at the
rate of ten per cent; for all above that sum and not exceeding ten thou­
sand dollars, at the rate of five per cent; and for all above that sum,
at the rate of four per cent.

Section 3936. Petition ,or Di•charge. ~o1ice to
Creditors: :\t ar y Lim" 1 r!~r t -c e vpiration of three months from
the adjudication of insolvency, the debtor may apply to the court or
the judge thereof at chambers, for a discharge from his debt. and the
court, or the judge thereof, either in open court, or in chambers, must
thereupon order notice to he· given to all creditors who have proved
their debts, to appear on a day appointed for that purpose in open 
court, and show cause why a discharge should not be granted to the
rlebtor : said notice must be given either by serving at least thirty
days before the day set for the hearing, a copy thereof personally 011 
each creditor who has proved his claim, or his attorney; or by the,
clerk of the court mailing to each of said creditors who have proved 
i heir claims, a copy of said notice properly addressed to each of said
creditors at his place of residence or business, postage prepaid; which
said notice must be mailed at least thirty days before the day set for
the hearing, or if any creditor have an attorney, said notice may he
served upon said attorney; Provided, That if no debts have been
proved, such notice is not required.

Section 3937. Di•charge, w·hen not Granted: No
discharge must be granted, or if granted is valid, if the debtor has 
sworn falsely in his affidavit annexed to his petition, schedule. or
inventory, or upon any examination in the course of the proceedings
in insolvency, in relation to any material fact concerning his estate,
or his debts, or to any other material fact; or if he has concealed any
part of his estate or effects, or any books or writings relating thereto ; 
or if he has been guilty of fraud or willful neglect in the care, cus­ 
iody, or delivery to the assignee of the property belonging to hin, at
the time of the presentation of his petition and inventory excepting
-uch property as he is permitted to retain under the provisions of 
this Chapter, or if he has caused or permitted any loss or destruct» 111 
thereof; or if. within one month before the commencement of such
proceedings, he has procured his lands, goods, money, or chattels to
be attached, or seized on execution; or if he has destroyed, muti­
lated. altered, or falsified any of his books, documents, papers, writ­
ings, or securities, or has made or been privy to the making of any
false or fraudulent entry in any book of account or other document
with intent to defraud his creditors; or if he has made any fraudulent
gift, transfer. conveyance, or assignment of any part of his property,
or has admitted a false or fictitious debt against his estate, or if, hav­
ing knowledge that any person has proven such false or fictitious
debt, he has not disclosed the same to his assignee within one month 
after such knowledge; or it being a merchant or tradesman, he has
not. subsequently to the passage of this Chapter. kept proper hooks 
of account; or if he or any any other person on his account or in his
behalf, has influenced the actiori of any creditor at any stage of the
proceedings, hy any pecuniary consideration or obligation; or if he
has, in contemplation of becoming insolvent, made any pledge, trans­
fer, assignment, or conveyance of any part of his property, directly
or indirectly, absolutely or conditionally, for the purpose of prevent­
ing the property from coming into the hands of the assignee, or of
being distributed under this chapter in satisfaction of his debts; or
if he has been convicted of any misdemeanor under this chapter, or
has been guilty of fraud contrary to the true intent of this chapter,
or has received the benefits of this or any other act of insolvency or
bankruptcy within three years next preceding his application for
discharge, and before any discharge is granted, the debtor must take
and subscribe an oath to the effect, that he has not done, suffered, or
been privy tu any act, matter or thing specified in this chapter, as
ground for withdrawing such discharge or as invalidating such dis­ 
charge if granted. 
 
Section 3938. Opp08i1ion to Diecharg~: Any creditor
opposing the discharge of a debtor, must file specifications, in writ­
ing, of the grounds of his 'opposition, and after the debtor has filed
and served his answer thereto, which pleadings must be verified, the
court must try the issue or issues raised, with or without a jury, ac­
cording to the practice provided by law in civil cases. 

Section 3939. Uertiffcate et· Di•~harge: If it appears
to the court that the debtor has in all things conformed to his duty
under this chapter, and that he is entitled, under the provisions
thereof, to receive a discharge, the court must grant him a discharge 
from all his debts, except as hereinafter provided, and must give
him a certificate thereof, under the seal of the court, in substance,
as follows: 
ln the district court of the judicial district of Idaho State, in
and for county. Whereas, has been duly adjudged
an insolvent under the insolvent laws of this state, and appears to
have conformed to all the requirements of law in that behalf, it is
thereforee ordered by the court that said be forever discharged from all debts and claims, which by said insolvent laws, are
made provable against his estate, and which existed on the day
of , on which the petition for adjudication was filed by
him, excepting such debts, if any, as are, by said insolvent laws,
excepted from the operation of a discharge in insolvency. 
Given under my hand, and the seal of the court, this day of
............. ~·\. D. 19. . . . Attest, , clerk. 
( Seal). . , Judge. 

Section 3940. .t"raudulent Debt• not .Di•~harged: No
debt created by fraud or embezzlement of the debtor, or by his de­
falcations as a public officer, or while acting in a fiduciary charac­
ter, and no indebtedness or liability for funds, deposits, or goods 
received as a banker, broker, commission merchant or factor, can be
discharged under this chapter, but the debt may be proved and the
dividend thereon is a payment on account of said debt; and no dis­
charge granted under this chapter releases, discharges or affects any
person liable for the same debt for or with the debtor, either as pan­
ner, joint contractor, indorser, surety or otherwise. 

Section 394~. Refu@al ot· Di8charge, Effect oC: The
refusal of a discharge to the debtor does not affect the administra­ 
tion and distribution of his estate under the provisions of this chap­
ter. 
 
Section 3941. Effect and Operation of Di•charge: 
A discharge duly granted under this chapter, with the exceptions
aforesaid, releases the debtor from all claims, debts, liabilities and de­
mands set forth in his schedule, or which were or might have been
proved against his estate in insolvency, and may be pleaded by a
simple averment that on the day of its date such discharge was
granted to him, setting forth the same in full, and the same is a com­
plete bar to all suits brought on any such debts, claims, liabilities or
demands, and the certificate is prima facie evidence in favor of such
fact, and of the regularity of such discharge: Provided, however, 
That any creditor of said debtor whose debt was proved, or provable,
against the estate in insolvency, who sees fit to contest the validity
of such discharge on the ground that it was fraudulently obtained,
and who has discovered the facts constituting the fraud subsequent to
the discharge, may, at any time within two years after the date
thereof, apply to the court which granted it, to set aside and annul
the same ; or if the same is pleaded, the effect thereof may be avoided 
collaterally upon any such grounds. 

Section 3943. lneolveocy of· Partnerships: Two or
more persons who are partners in business may be adjudged insol­ 
vent, either on the petition of such partners, or any of them, in 
which case an order must be issued in the manner provided by this chapter, upon which all the joint stock and property of the partnership, 
and also all the separate estate of each of the partners must be taken,
excepting such parts thereof as may he exempt by law, and all the
creditors of the company. and the separate creditors of each partner. 
may proYe their respective debts; and the assignee must he chosen
hy the creditors of the co-partnership. and must keep separate ac- 
counts of the joint stock or property of the co-partnership, and of the
separate estate of each member thereof; and after deducting out of
the whole amount received by such assignee the whole amount of
the expenses and disbursements, the net proceeds of the joint stock
must be appropriated to pay the creditors of the co-partnership, and
the net proceeds of the separate estate of each partner must be appro­
priated to pay his separate creditors; and if there is any balance
of the separate estate of any partner after the payment of his
separate debts, such balance must be added to the joint stock for the
payment of the joint creditors, and if there is any balance of the joint
stock after the payment of the joint debts, such balance must be di­
vided and appropriated to and among the separate estate of the sev­ 
eral partners according to their respective rights and interest therein,
as it would have been if the partnership had been dissolved
without insolvency; and the sum so appropriated to the separate
estate of each partner must be applied to the payment of his separate
debts, and the certificate of discharge must be granted or refused to
each partner as the same would or ought to be if the proceedings had
been by him alone under this Chapter; and in all other respects the pro
ceedings as to partners must be conducted in the like manner as if
they had been commenced and prosecuted by or against one person
alone. 
If such co-partners reside in different counties, that court in which
· the petition is first filed may retain exclusive jurisdiction over the 
case. If the petition be filed by less than all the partners of a co­
partnership, those partners who do not join in the petition must be
ordered to show cause why they should not be adjudged to be in­ 
solvent.

Section 9944. Applicable to Uor1,oration•: The pro­
visions of this Chapter apply to corporations, and upon petition of
any officer of any corporation duly authorized by the vote of the
board of directors or trustees, at a meeting specially called for that 
purpose. or by the assent in writing of a majority of the directors or 
trustees, as the case may be. the like proceedings shall be had and
taken as are provided in the case of individual debtors. All the
provisions of this Chapter which apply to the debtor or set forth his
duties. examination and liabilities, or prescribe penalties, or relate 
to fraudulent conveyances. payments and assignments. apply to each
and every officer of any corporation in relation to the same matters
concerning the corporation. \Vhenever any corporation is declared
insolvent. all its property and assets must he distributed to the crerli­
tors; but no discharge can he granted to any corporation.

Section 3943. Statute of Limita1ion~, not to R11n: 
Pending proceedings hy any person, co-partnership or corporation, 
no statute of limitations runs against a claim which m its nature ts 
provable against the estate of the debtor. 

Section 3948. Bepre.entation by A..ttorney: Any
creditor at any stage in the procee<lings, may be represented by h1..; 
attorney or duly authorized agent. 

Section 3948. Death ot· ln•ol vent, Pending Proceed­
ing•: If any debtor dies after the order of adjudication, the pro­
ceedings may be continued and concluded in like manner and with
like validity and effect as if he had lived. 
Section 39-19. Dome•tead• and E~~mption•: It is the
duty of the court or judge having jurisdiction of the proceedings, to
exempt and set apart for the use and benefit of said insolvent, such
real and personal property as is by law exempt from execution. 

Section 3947. ReceiY~n: A receiver may be appointed by 
the court or ju<lge in which an insolvent proceeding is- pending be­
fore the election of an assignee: 
1. Upon the application of creditors, where it is shown that the
property, or any portion thereof, is in danger of being lost, removed
or materially injured; 
2. In all other cases where receivers are appointed by the usage
of the courts of equity. And thereupon the appointment, oath, under­
taking and powers of such receiver are in all respects regulated by
the general laws applicable to receivers. 

Section 3948. Death ot· ln•ol vent, Pending Proceed­
ing•: If any debtor dies after the order of adjudication, the pro­
ceedings may be continued and concluded in like manner and with
like validity and effect as if he had lived. 

Section 39-19. Dome•tead• and E~~mption•: It is the
duty of the court or judge having jurisdiction of the proceedings, to
exempt and set apart for the use and benefit of said insolvent, such
real and personal property as is by law exempt from execution. 

Section 39~0. Di•miHal• and Dh1continuaoce•: The 
court or ju<lge may, upon the application of the debtor, dismiss the
petition and discontinue the proceedings at any time before the ap­
pointment of assignee. :\ fter the appointment of assignee no dis­
missal must be made without "the consent of a11 parties interested in 
• ir affected thereby. 

Section 3931. .4.ppeal11: An appeal may be taken to the ,11- 
preme court in the following cases:
I. _ \lluwing or rejecting a creditor's claim. 111 whole or in p.•.rt: 
2. Overruling a motion for a new trial;
3. Settling an account of an assignee;
4. Against or in favor of setting apart homestead or other prop­ 
erty claimed as exempt from execution; 
5. Granting or· refusing a discharge to the debtor. The notice,
undertaking, and procedure on appeal must conform to the general 
laws of this State, regulating appeals in civil cases except that when
the assignee has given an official undertaking and appeals from a 
• judgment or order in insolvency his official undertaking stands in the
place of an undertaking on appeal, and the sureties therein are liable 
on such undertaking.

Section 393~. Contempt8: All sections of the Code of Civil
Procedure relating to contempts are hereby made applicable t'J "11 
proceedings under this Chapter. An appeal is allowed to the ~ upreme
court from any order adjudging any person guilty of rn:•tempt of
court. 

Section 3933. Co818: In all contested matters in insolvency
the court may, in its discretion, award costs to either party, n ;)~ 1, 'd
by the other, or to either or both parties, to be paid out of the estate
as justice and equity may require. 1n awarding costs the court may
issue execution therefore.

Section 3934. Certain Word• Defined: Words ,1.:- : 1 m
this Chapter in the singular, include the plural, and in the »lnral.
the singular, and the word "debtor" includes partnerships and corpora­
tions.

Section 993:1. lffay be · ror Debt du~ on Coatin«~nt
Liability: A judgment hy confession may he entere-l without ac­ 
t.on, either for money due or to become due. or to secure any per­ 
son against contingent liability on behalf of the defendar+. .r borh, 
in the manner prescribed hy this Chapter. Such judgment may be 
entered in any court having; jurisdiction for like amounts. 

Section 99:18. Statement in Wrl1in.- and i-orm Thf'rf'·
or: A statement 1•1 wrrt nu; -nust he made. signed by the defendant
and verified hy his oath. to the following effect: 
r , It must authorize the entry of judgment for a specified suru : 
2. If it he for monev due or to become due. it must state con­
cisely the facts out of which it arose. and show that the sum confes­ 
sed therefore is [ustlv due or to become due:
~- If it he for the purpose of seeming the plaintifff against a r-nn­ 
tingent liability. it must state concisely the farts constituting t!l ~ 
liabilitv, and show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed 
the same.

Section 3937. Fllln&" Statement and Enterin&" 3od&"­
ment: The statement must be filed with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment is to be entered, who must endorse upon it and
enter in the judgment book. a judgment of such court for the amount
confessed. with five dollars costs. The statement and affidavit witi:
the judgment indorsed, thereupon becomes the judgment roll. 

Section 1938. In Probate and Juwtlcet1' Ceurtw: In 
a probate or justices' court. where the court has the authority to
enter the judgment. the statement may be filed with the court or 
justice. who must thereupon enter in hie; docket a judgment of his
court for the amount confessed. with three dollars costs. Tf a tran­ 
script of such judgment he filed with the district clerk. a copy of the
statement must he filed with it. 

Section 1939. Conlroveny, how Submitted with­ 
out 1'.ction: Parties to a question in difference. which might be
the subject of a civil action. may. without action. agree upon .t case
containing the facts upon which the controversy d~1,emb. and p: esent
a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction
if an action had heen brought: but it must appear hy affidavit. that
the controversy is real and the proceedings in good faith. to deter­
mine the rights of the parties. The court must thereupon hear and
determine the case and render judgment thereon. as if an action 
were depending.

Section 3980. .Jud&"menf a8 in Other Casn bot
Without Co8ts: Judgment must be entered in the judgment 
hook as in other cases. but without costs for any proceeding prior to
the trial. The case. the submission amt a copy of the judgment 
constitute the judgment roll. 

Section 3981. Judcment, EoCorcement or A.pp«aal
ft-om: The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as ii 
it had been rendered in an action. and is in the same manner subject
to appeal. 

Section 398~. Penout11 Confined, bow Di8t·barged: 
Any person confined in jail on an execution issued on a judgment
rendered in a civil action. must be discharged therefrom upon the con­
ditions in this Chapter specified. 

Section 9989. Notice 01· A.ppllcatioo: Such person must 
cause a notice in writing to be given to the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, that at a certain time and place he will apply to the judge
of the district court nf the county in which such person may be con­
fined: or. in case of his absence or inability to act, to the judge of 
the probate court of the county in which such person may be im­
prisoned. for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprison­
ment. 

Section 9984. 8erYiCf' of" Neticc: Such notice must be
served upon the plaintifff. his agent or attorney, one day at least be­
fore the hearing of the application, 

Section 398:J. Examination beCore Judge: At the
time and place specified in the notice, such person must be taken be­
fore such judge. who must examine him under oath concerning his
estate. and property. and effects. and the disposal thereof. and his
ability to pay the judgment for which he is committed, or any part
thereof, and such judge may also hear any other legal and pertinent
evidence that may be produced by the debtor or the creditor.

Section 3988. Interrogatori~• may be in "'riling: 
The plaintifff in the action may. upon such examination, propose to
the prisoner any interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry, and they
must if required by him, be proposed and answered in writing and 
the answer must be signed and sworn to by the prisoner. 

Section 3987. Oath to be A.dmioi8tered : If. upon the
examination. the judge is satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his 
discharge. he must administer to him the following oath, to-wit: 
"I. do solemnly swear that I have not any estate, real or 
personal, ti) the amount of fifty dollars, except such as is by law ex­
empted from being taken in execution: and that T have not any other
«surtc 110,r conveyed or concealed. or in any way disposed of, with 
design to secure the same to my use, or to hinder, delay, or defraud
my creditors, so help me God." 

Section 3988. Order ot· Oi8charge: After administering
the oath the judge must issue an order that the prisoner be discharged 
from custody, and the officer upon the service of such order, must
discharge the prisoner forthwith. if he be imprisoned for no other 
cause. 

Section 9969. Prisoner may A.gain Apply, W,hen: 
If such judge does not discharge the prisoner, he may apply for his 
discharge at the end of every succeeding thirty days, in the same
manner as above provided and the same proceedings must thereupon 
be had. 

Section 9970. Discharge Final: The prisoner after being
so discharged. is forever exempt from arrest or imprisonment for the
same debt. unless he he convicted of having willfully sworn falsely
upon his examination before the ~mtge, or in taking the oath before 
prescribed. 

Section 3971. Judgment Remains in Force: The
judgment against any prisoner who is discharged, remains in full
force against any estate which may then or at any time afterward dur­
ing the Ii fe of the judgment belong to him. and the plaintifff may take
out a new execution against the g-()ods and estate of the prisoner ;11 
like manner as if he hacl never been c, nnmitterl. 

Section 397~. Plaintiff nta)' Ordf'r Ditilcharge of'
Priso11er: The plaintifff in the action may at any time order the
prisoner to be discharged. and he is not thereafter liable to imprison­
ment for the same cause of action. 

Section 3973. Plaintiff to Ad1'ance Fund•. S11pport 
oC Prisoner: \Vhene,·er a person is committed to jail on an exc­
cution issued 011 a judgment recovered in a civil action. the creditor,
his agent or attorney must advance to the jailer on such commit­
ment. sufficient money for the hoard of the prisoner at the rate pro­
vided hv law. for one week. and must make the like advance for
cverv successive week of his imprisonment: and in case of failure to
do so, the jailer must forthwith discharjre such prisoner from ens­
tody, and si1ch discharge has the same effect as if made by order of 
the creditor.

Section 397 4. Forcible Entry -,e .. ~f'~ : Evcrr person
is guilty of a forcible entry who either 

I. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts of a house,
or by any kind of violence or circumstance of terror enters upon or
into any real property; or, 
2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property, turns out
by force, threats, or menacing conduct, the party in possession. 

Section 897':I. Forcible Detainer Defined: Every per­
son is guilty of a forcible detainer who either: 
1. By force. or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully
holds and keeps possession of any real property, whether the same
was acquired peacefu11y or otherwise; or, 
2. Who, in the night time. or during the absence of the occu­
pant of any lands. unlawfully enters upon real property, and who.
after demand made for the surrender thereof. for the period of five
<lays. refuses to surrender the same to such former occupant. 
The occupant of real property. within the meaning of this suhdivision. is one who. within five days preceding such unlawful entry,
was in peaceable and undisturbed possession of such lands. 

Section 397'8. IJnlawC1d Detainer D~flned: A tenant
of real property. for a term less than life. is guilty of an unlawful
detainer : 
r , When he continues in possession. in person or hy sub-tenant of
the property. or any part thereof. after the expiration of the term for 
which it is let to him: without the permission of his landlord, or the
successor in estate of his landlord. if anv there be: but in a case of a
tenancy at will. it must first be terminat~d hy notice. as prescribed in
the Civi 1 Code ; 
2. \Vhere he continues in possession, in person or hy sub-tenant.
without permission of his landlord. or the successor in estate of his 
landlord. if any there be, after default in the payment of rent, pur­ 
suant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held,
and three days' notice. in writing. requiring its payment, stating the 
amount which is due, or possession of the propert~'· shall have been 
served upon him, and if there be a sub-tenant in actual occupation of
the premises, also upon such sub-tenant. Such notice may be served
at any time within one year after the rent becomes due. In all cases
of tenancy upon agricultural lands, where the tenant has held over
and retained possession for more than sixty days after the expiration
of his term without any demand of possession or notice to quit bf
the landlord. or the successor in estate of his landlord, if any there be,
he shall be deemed to be holding by permission of the landlord, or
the successor in estate of his landlord. if any there be. and shall be
entitled to hold under the terms of the lease for another full year.
and sha11 not be guilty of an unlawful detainer during said year. and
such holding over for the period aforesaid shall be taken and con­
strued as a consent on the part of a tenant to hold for another year; 
3. \\~here he continues in p.issession in person. or by sub-tenants. 
after a neglect or failure to perform other conditions or covenants 0£ 
the lease or agreement under which the property is held. includ­
ing any covenant not to assign or sublet. than the one for payment
of rent. and three days' notice. in writing. requiring the performance
of such conditions or covenants. or the possession of the property.
shall have been served upon him. and if there be a sub-tenant in ac­
tual occupation of the premises. also upon such sub-tenant. With­
in three days after the service of the notice. the tenant, or any sub­
tenant in actual occupation of the premises. or any mortgagee of
the term. or other person interested in its continuance. may perform
the conditions or covenants of the lease. or pay the stipulated rent.
as the case may he. and therehy save the lease from forfeiture: Pro­ 
iid cd, If the covenants and conditions of the lease. violated hy the
lessee. cannot a fterwards he performed. then no notice, as last pre­
scribed herein. need he given to said lessee or his sub-tenant demand­
ing the performance of the violated covenant or conditions of the
lease. A tenant may take proceedings similar to those prescribed
in this chapter. to obtain possession of premises let to an under-tenant.
in case of his unlawful detention of the premises under-let to him. 
4. :\ tenant or sub-tenant, assigning or sub-letting, or commit­
ting waste upon the demised premises. contrary to the covenants of
his lease. therehv terminates the lease. and the landlord. or his suc­
cessor in estate.· shall. upon service of three <lays' notice to quit. up­
on the person or persons in possession. he entitled to restitution of
possession of such demised premises under the provisions of this chapter. 

Section :1977. SerYiee oCNoti~e: The notices required
hy the preceding section may he served, either: 
1. By delivering a copy to the tenant personally: or. 
2. If he be absent from his place of residence and from his usual
place of business, by leaving a copy with some person of suitable age 
and discretion at either place. and sending a copy through the mail
addressed to the tenant at his place of residence; or, if such place of
residence and business cannot be ascertained, or a person of suitable
age or discretion cannot be found there. then by affixing a copy in
a conspicuous place on the property, and also delivering a copy to ,t 
person there residing. if such person can be found: and also sending
a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant at the place where
the property is situated. Service upon a sub-tenant may be made in
the same manner. 

Section 89'78. Dlw1rict Court• haYe Juri11didioa: The
district court of the county in which the property or some part of it.
is situated. has jurisdiction of proceedings under this chapter. 

Section 9'79 . .Jori•dldiono,Probate ~ourt- LiMit~d: 
The probate court of the county in which the property. or some-part
of it. is situated. has jurisdiction of proceedings under this chapter
when the whole amount of rent and damages claimed does not exceed
five hundred <lollars

Section 9SO. Juri11dl~tioa of .Jn11tice11' "ourf• Lim·
lted: Justices· courts have jurisdiction of proceedings under this chapter where the whole amount of rent and damages claimed does
not exceed three hundred dollars. 

Section 3981. Partin De,endant: No person other than
the tenant of the premises. and suh-tenant. if there he one. in the
actual occupation of the premises when the notice herein provided 
for was served. need he made parties defendant in the proceeding.
nor shall any oroceeding abate nor the nlaintff he non-suited for the
non-joinder of any persons who might have been made parties
defendant: but when it anpears that any of the oarties served with
process or appearing in the proceeding are g-uilty of the offense
charged. judgment must be rendered against him. Any person who
shall hecome a sub-tenant of the premises or anv nart thereof after
the service of notice as provided in this chapter shall be bound bv 
th~ judgment. In case a married woman he a tenant or a sub-ten- 
ant, her coverture shall constitute no defense ; hut in case her hus­
band be not joined. or unless she be doing business as a sole trader;
an execution issued upon a personal judgment against her. can only
be enforced against property on the premises at the commencement
of the action. 

Section 898~. Partie• Generally: Except as provided in 
the preceding section the provisions of this Code. relating to parties
to civil actions, are applicable to this proceeding. 

Section 8983. Thf" Complaint. Summon• te l••ue:
The plaintifff in his complaint. which shall be in writing. must set
forth the facts on which he seeks to recover and describe the prem­
ises with reasonable certainty and may set forth therein any cir­
cumstances of fraud. force. or violence which may have accompanied
the alleged forcible entry. or forcible or unlawful detainer. and claim
damages therefore. In case the unlawful detainer charged be after de­
fault in the payment of rent. the complaint must state the amount of
such rent. Upon filing the complaint. a summons must be issued
thereon returnable as in other cases. 

Section 39S4. A.rre•t: I f the complaint presented estab­
lishes. to the satisfaction of the judge or justice. fraud. force. or ,·in­ 
lence in the entry or detainer. and that the possession held is un­ 
lawful. he may make an order for the arrest of the defendant.
.

Section 39S:i. Verification of tJomplainC and A.n­
•wer: The complaint and answer must -he verified. 

Section 39S6. Judgment by Default: If. at the time 
appointed. the defendant do not appear and defend. the court must
enter his default and render judgment in favor of the plainitff as; 
prayed for in the complaint. 

Section 39~7. Trial by Jury: \ Vhenever an issue of fact
is presented by the pleadings. it must be tried by a jury, unless such
jury be waived as in other cases. The jury shall be formed in the 
same manner as other trial juries in the court in which the action fr, 
pending.

Section 3988. Showing Required of" Plaintiff: De­
Cendant; Deten•e: On the trial of any proceeding for any forci­ 
ble entry or forcible detainer, the plaintifff shall only be required to
show, in addition to the forcible entry or forcible detainer complained
of, that he was peaceably in the actual possession at the time of the
forcible entry, or was entitled to the possession at the time of the
forcible detainer. The defendant may show in his defense that he
or his ancestors, or those whose interest in such premises he claims,
have been in the quiet possession thereof for the space of one whole
year together next before the commncement of the procedings, and
that his interest therein, is not then ended or determined; and such
showing is a bar to the proceedings. 

Section 3989. Complaint mu•t be A.mended, whea: 
When upon the trial of any proceeding under this thapter, it ap­
pears from· the evidence that the defendant has been guilty of either
a forcible entry or a forcible or unlawful detainer, and other than
the offense charged in the complaint, the judge must order that such
complaint be forthwith amended to conform to such proofs. .Sucn
amendment must be without any imposition of terms. No contiu­
uance shall be permitted upon account of such amendment, unless the
defendant, by affidavit filed. shows to the satisfaction of the. court
good cause therefore. 

Section 3990. Verdict and Judgment: If, upon the
trial, the verdict of the jury, or, if the case be tried without a jury, 
the finding of the court, be in favor of the plaintifff and against the
defendant, judgment shall be entered for the restitution of the prem­
ises; and if the proceeding be for an unlawful detainer after neglect
or failure to perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or
agreement under which the property is held, or after default in the
payment of rent, the judgment shall also declare the forfeiture of
such lease or agreement. The jury or the court, if the proceeding
be tried without a jury, shall also assess the damages occasioned to
the plaintifff by any forcible entry, or by any forcible or unlawful
detainer, alleged in the complaint, and proved on the trial, and find
the amount of any rent due. if the alleged unlawful detainer be after
default in the payment of rent. and the judgment shall be rendered
against the defendant guilty of the forcible entry. or forcible or
unlawful detainer. for three times the amount of the damages thus
assessed. and of the rent found due. When the proceeding is for an
unlawful detainer after default in the payment of rent, and the lease
or agreement under which the rent is payable has not by its terms
expired, execution upon the judgment shall not he issued until the
expiration of five days after the entry of the judgment. within which 
time the tenant, or any sub-tenant, or any mortgagee of the term, or
other party interested in its continuance, may pay into court, for the
landlord, the amount found due as rent, with interest thereon, and the
amount of the damages found by the jury or the court for the unlaw­
ful detainer. and the costs of the proceeding, and thereupon the
judgment shall be satisfied and the tenant be restored to his estate:
but, if payment, as here provided, be not made within the five days,
the judgment may be enforced for its full amount, and for the pos­
session of the premises. In all other cases the judgment may be
enforced immediately. 

Section 3991., Effect oC an A..ppeal Crom Judg1nent: 
An appeal taken by the defendant does not stay proceedings upon
the judgment unless the court so directs. 

Section 399~. ProYi8ions A..ppli~able to pro~eeding•
under thi• (;bapter: The provisions of this Code, relative to
civil actions, appeals, and new trials, so far as they -are not incon­
sistent with the provisions of this chapter, apply to the proceedings
mentioned in this chapter. 

Section 3993. Territorial ~ 11risdi~tioo ot Proba1e
Court ever E•tate: Wills must be proved. and letters testa­
mentary or of administration granted: 
I. In the county of which the decedent was a resident at the
time of his death. in whatever place he may have died; 
2. In the county in which the decedent may have died. leaving
estate therein. he not being a resident of the state: 
3. In the county in which any part of the estate may he. the de­
cedent having died out of the state. and not resident thereof at the
time of his death ; 
4. In the county' in which any part of the estate may be. the de­
cent not being a resident of the state. and not leaving estate in the
countv in which he died: 
5. · In all other cases. in the county where application for letters
is first made.

Section 3994. "1 hen .J uri•dic1ion Decitled by Fir•t
A..pplication: When the estate of the decedent is in more than 
one county, he having died out of the state, and not having been a
resident thereof at the time of his death, or being such non-resident
and dying within the state, and not leaving estate in the county where
he· died, the probate court of that county in which application is first
made for letters testamentary or of administration, has exclusive jur­
isdiction of the settlement of the estate. 

Section 3993. Cu•todiaa oC Will to Deli'l'er ••
whom: Every custodian of a will, within thirty days after re­ 
ceipt of information that the maker thereof is dead, must deliver the
same to the probate court having jurisdiction 'of the estate, or to the
executor named therein. A failure to comply with the provisions of 
this section makes the person failing responsible for all damages sus­
tained by any one injured thereby. 

Section 8998. Who 1Day Petition tor Probate oC
Will: Any executor, devisee, or legatee named in any will, or any
other person interested in the estate, may, at any time after the 
death of the testator, petition the court having jurisdiction to have
the will proved, whether the same be in writing, in his possession or 
not, or is lost or destroyed, or beyond the jurisdiction of the state· or
a nuncupative will. 

Section 1991'. Uente•t• oC Petition: A petition for the
probate of a will must show : 
1. The jurisdictional facts; 
2. Whether the person named as executor consents to act, or re
nounces his rights to letters testamentary; 
3. The names, ages, and residence of the heirs and devisees of
the decedent, so far as known to the petitioner; 
4. The probable value and character of the property of the es­
tate; 
5. The name of the person for whom letters testamentary are
prayed. 
No defect of form, or in the statement of jurisdictional facts ac­
tually existing, shall make void the probate of a will.

Section 3998. When Executor ForCeit• Bight• to Let­
ten: If the person named in a will as executor, for thirty days
after he has knowledge of the death of the testator, and that he is
named as executor, fails to petition the proper court for the probate
of the will and that letters testamentary be issued to him, he may be
held to have renounced his right to letters, and the court may ap- ·
point any other competent person administrator, unless good cause 
for delay is shown. 

Section 1999. Will, Petition for Pre•entatieo, how·
EoCorced: If it is alleged jn any petition that any w'ill is in pos­ 
session of a third person, and the court is satisfied that the allega­
tion is correct. an order must he issued and served upon the person
having possession of the will. requiring him to produce it at a time
named in the order. 
If he has possession of the will and neglects or refuses to produce 
it in obedience to the order. he may by warrant from the court, be
committed to the jail of the county, and be kept in close confinement 
until he
produces
it.

Section 1000. N olice oC Petition for Probate: When
the petition is filed and the will produced, the probate. judge must fix 
a <lay for hearing the petition, not less than ten nor more than thirty
<lays from the production of the will. Notice of the hearing shall be
given by the clerk of the court, by publishing the same in a newspaper
of the county. If there is none, then by three written or printed no­
tices posted at three of the most public places in the county. If the
notice is published in a weekly newspaper, it must appear therein 011 
at least three different days of publication, and if in a newspaper pub­
lished oftener than once a week, it shall be so published that there must
be. at least ten days from the first to the last day of publication, both
the first and the last day being included. If the notice is by posting,
it must be given at least ten days before the hearing. 

Section 4001. Heir• and Named Executors Notified,
how: Copies of the notice of the time appointed for the probate of
the will must. be addressed to the heirs of the testator resident in the
State, at their places of residence, if known to the petitioner, and de­
posited in the postoffice, with the postage thereon paid, at least ten
<lays before the hearing. If their places of residence be not known,
the copies of notice may be addressed to them and deposited in the
postoffice at the county seat of the county where the proceedings are
pending. A copy of the same notice must in like manner be mailed
to the person named as executor, if he be not the petitioner; also to 
any person named as co-executor not petitioning, if their places of resi­
dence be known. Proof of mailing the copies of the notice must be
made at the hearing. Personal service of copies of the notice at least
ten days before the day of hearing. is equivalent to mailing. 

Section 4:00~. Petition Pre•ented to .Judse at
Cambers, Orders Thereon: The probate judge may, out of 
term time or at chambers. receive petitions for the probate of wills.
and make and issue all necessary orders and writs to enforce the pro­
duction of wills and the attendance of witnesses. and may appoir.t
special terms of his court for hearing the petitions. trials of issues.
and admitting to probate. 

Section 4003. Hr.arinl' Proof ot· Will; Serl'ic~ of ~o­
tiee: At the time appointed for, or to which the hearing may have
been postponed. the court must require proof. hy affidavit, that the 
notices hereinbefore required have been personally served or mailed
and published, which being made, the court must hear testimony in
proof of the will. 
If such notice is not proved to have been given, or if from any other
cause it is necessary, the hearng may be postponed to a day certain,
and notice to absentees given thereof as original notice is required to
be given. The appearance in court of parties interested is a waiver of
notice. 

Section 4004. Probat~, when no Contnt: If no per­ 
son appears to contest the probate of a will, the court may admit it so 
probate on the testimony of one of the subscribing witnesses only, if 
he testifies that the will was executed in all particulars as required
by law, and that the testator was of sound mind at the time of its ex­
ecution. 

Section 4003. Olo«raphic Will•: An olographic will may
be proved in the same manner that other private writings are proved.

Section 4008. Who may Coote•t the Will: Any per­
son interested may appear and contest the will. Devisees, legatees,
heirs, or creditors of an estate may contest the will through their
guardians, or attorneys appointed by themselves or by the court for
that purpose; but a contest made by an attorney appointed by the
court does not bar a contest after probate. by the party so representeu,
if commenced within the time provided in this Chapter; nor does the
non-appointment of an attorney by the court of itself invalidate the 
probate of a will.

Section 4007. Centesta11t'• Ground• or Conte•1,
Petitioner'• Reply: If anyone appears to contest the will, he
must, file written grounds of opposition to the probate thereof, and
serve a copy on the petitioner and other residents of the county inter­
ested in the estate, any one or more of whom may demur thereto upon
any of the grounds of demurrer to a complaint in civil actions. If the
demurrer is sustained. the court must allow the contestant a reasonabie 
traversing, or otherwise obviating or avoiding the objections. Any i"i­
sues of fact thus raised involving: 
1. The competency of the decedent to make a last will and testa­
ment; 
2. The freedom of the decedent at the timeof the execution of the
will from duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence; 
3. The due execution and attestation of the will by the decedent
or subscribing witnesses; or, 
4. Any other questions substantially affecting the validity of the
Must, on request of either party in writing (. filed three days prior
to the day set for the hearing), be tried by a jury. If no jury is
demanded, the court must try and determine the issues joined. On
the trial the contestant is plaintifff, and the petitioner is defendant. 

Section 4008. Row Jury Obtained and Trial Had: 
When a jury is demanded. the probate court must- summons and
empanel a jury to try the case. in the manner· provided for summon­ 
ing and empaneling trial juries in civil actions. and the trial must be 
conducted in the same manner as the trial of civil actions in the district
court. 

Section 1009. Verdict oC .Jury . .Judl'ment. A.ppeal: 
The jury, after hearing the case, must return a special verdict upon the
issues submitted to them by ·the court. upon which the judgment of
the court must be rendered. either admitting the will to probate or re­
jecting it. In either case, the proofs of the subscribing witnesses must
be reduced to writing. If the will is admitted to probate, the judg
ment, will and proofs must be recorded. 

Section 4010. WUnet1tle8, who Esamined. Proe.C of
Handwriting: If the will is contested. all the subscribing wit­
nesses who are present in the county. and who are of sound mind,
must be produced and examined: and the death. absence, or insan­
ity of any of them must be satisfactorily shown to the court. If none
of the subscribing witnesses reside in the county at the time ap­
pointed for proving the will. the court may admit the testimony o{
other witnesses to prove the sanity of the testator and the executio· ..
of the will: and. as evidence of the execution. it may admit proof of
the handwriting of the testator and of the subscribing witnesses, o: 
any of them. 

Section 4011. T e stimony Red11ced to Writing. EYi·
dence 8ub8eq11ent Uontests: The testimony of each witness.
reduced to writing and signed hy him. shall he good evidence in any
subsequent contests concerning the validity of the will. or the suf­
ficiency of the proof thereof. if the witness he dead. or has permanent·
ly removed from this State. 

Section 40UI. Ir ProYed, Oertifl~ate to be Attached: 
If the court is satisfied. upon the proof taken or from the facts found
by the jury. that the will was duly executed: and that the testator
at the time of its execution was of sound and disposing mind. and
not acting under duress. menace. fraud. or undue influence, a certifi­
cate of the proof and the facts found. signed hy the probate judge
and attested hy the seal of the court. must he attached to the will.

Section 4013. Will and Proof* Filed and Recorded: 
The will and a certificate of the proof thereof, must be filed by the
clerk and recorded by him in a book to be provided for the purpose.
A 11 testimony shall be filed by the clerk. 

Section '1014. PreYed in other State.. Recorded
When and Wher«a: Every will duly proved and allowed in any
part of the L' nited States. or in any foreign country or state, may Le 
allowed and recorded in the probate court of any county in which the
testator shall have left any estate. 

Section 40UI. Pro~eediol'• on Produclion or Foreign
Will: \ Vhen a copy of the will and the probate thereof, duly
authenticated. shall he produced by the executor, or by any other
person interested in the will with a petition for letters the same
must he filed. and the court or judge must appoint a time for the hear­
ing: notice whereof must be given as hereinbefore provided for an
original petition for the probate of a will. 

Section 4018. Rt-arlng Proo'8; Probate of" Foreign
Will: If. on the hearing. it appears upon the face of the record
that the will has heen proved. allowed and admitted to probate in the
United States. or in any foreign country. and that it was executed
according to the Jaw of the place in which the same was made, or in
which the testator was at the time domiciled. or in conformity with
the laws of this State. it must he admitted to probate. and have the
same force and effect as a will first admitted to probate in this State
and letters testamentary or of administration issued thereon. 

Section 4017. The Probate may be Contested within
8ne Year: \Vhen a will has been admitted to probate, any person
interested may at any time within one year after such probate contest
the same or the validity of the will. For .that purpose he must file 
in the court in which the will was proved a petition in writing
containing his allegations against the validity of the will or against 
the sufficiency of the proof. and praying that the probate may be re­
voked

Section 4018. Citation IHued te Partie• lntert"9ted: 
Upon filing the petition a citation must he issued to the executors of
the will or to the administrators with the will- annexed. and to all the
legatees and devisees mentioned in the will and heirs residing in the
State so far as known to the petitioners: or to their guardians. if any
of them are minors. or to their personal representatives. if any of
them are dead. requiring- them to appear before the court on some
<lay of a regular term therein specified. to show cause why the pro­
hate of the will should not he revoked. 

Section •o• 9. Rearing had on Proof o, Serwi~e: At
the time appointed for showing cause or at any time to which the
hearing is postponed. personal service of the citations having been 
made upon any persons named therein. the court must proceed to try
the issues of fact joined in the same manner as in an original contest
of a will.

Section 4090. Petitions to ReYoke Probate Trlt-d by
Jory or Court. Judgment: Tn all cases of netitions to re­
voke the probate of a will. wherein the original probate was granted
without a contest. on written demand of either party. filed three days
prior to the hearing. a trial hy jury must he had. as in cases of the
contest of an original petition to admit a will to probate. If. upon
hearing- the proofs of the narties. the jury shall find. or. if no jury is
had. the court shall decide, that the will is for any reason invalid. 
, r that it is not sufficientlv nroved to be the last will of the testator. 
t!·,e probate must he annulied and revoked. 

Section 4091. ReTocatlon oC Probate, Powen ot'E~­
_.~otor Cea11e: Upon the revocation being made, the powers of 
the executor or administrator with the will annexed, must cease; 
hut such executor or administrator shall not be liable for any act
clone in good faith previous to the revocation. 

Section 4899. £owt11 and Expen•ew, bJ Whem Paid : 
The fees and expenses must be paid by the party contesting the
validity or probate of the will. if the will in probate is confirmed.
If the probate is revoked. the costs must he paid by the party who
resisted the revocation. or out of the property of the decedent, as the
court directs. 

Section 409:1. Probate, when ~onch18iT_.: If no person
within one year after the probate of a will. contests the same, or the
validity thereof. the probate of the will is conclusive: saving to in­
fants and persons of unsound mind. a like period of one year after
their respective disabilities are removed.

Section 4094. ProoC or l,ot1t er Dewtroyed Wiii: 
Whenever any will is lost or destroyed the probate court must take
proof of the execution and validity thereof. and establish the same.
notice to all persons interested being first given. as prescribed in re­
gard to proofs of wills in other cases. Alt the testimony given
must he reduced to writing. and sig-ne<l hy the witnesses. 

Section 4og3, W1u1t haY .. Exb•t~d at Thne oC o .. ath : 
>Jo will shall he proved as a lost or destroyed will. unless the same
is proved to have heen in existence at the time of the death of the
testator. or is shown to have heen fraudulentlv destroyed in the life­
time of the testator. nor unless its nrovisions are clearly and distinctly
proved by at least two credible witnesses.

Section 4098. Certified and Recorded. J.,etten th e rt>on
Granted: When a lost will is established, the provisions thereof
must be distinctly stated and certified hy the nrohate judge under 
his hand and the seal of his court, and the certificate, together with 
the testimony upon which it is founded, must be filed and recorded
as other wills are filed and recorded. and letters testamentary or of
administration with the will annexed. must be issued thereon, in the
same manner as upon wills produced and duly proved. 


Section 40•7. Restrain lnjuriou1 A.etf!I of' Es:ecu­
tor8 During Proceedings: T f before or <luring the pendency of 
an application to prove a lost or destroyed will. letters of adrninistra­
tion are granted on the estate of the testator. or letters testamentary
of any previous will of the testator are granted. the court may re­
strain the administrators or executors so appointed. from any acts or
proceedings which would be injurious to the legatees or devisee­ 
claiming under the lost or destroyed will. 


Section 4099. A.ddifional Req11ir«amf"nt11,. Prehatf" N11n­
c11patiwe Will•: The probate court must not receive or entertain
a petition for the probate of a nuncupatve will. until the lapse of
fourteen days from the death of the testator. nor must such petition
at any time he acted on until the testamentary words are. or their
subsatnce is. reduced to writing and filed with the petition. nor until
the surviving husband or wife ( if any). and all other persons residen.
in the State. interested in the estate. are notified as hereinhefore pro­
vided. 

Section 40:10. Contestw and A.ppointment o, Eu•eo­
ton, etc. Noncopatiw-e Wiii•: Contests of the nrohate of nun­
cupative wills and appointments of executors and administrators of
the estate devised therebv must he had. conducted and made a ...
hereinbefore provided in cases of the probate of written wills. 

Section 40'1S. NoncopatlT«a Willt1, wht-n and how
Probated: Nuncupative wills may at any time within six months
after the testamentary words are spoken by the decedent, he admitted
to probate on petition and notice as provided for the probate of writ­
ten wills. The petition in addition to the jurisdictional facts. must
allege that the testamentary words, or the substance thereof. were re­
duced to writing within thirty days after they were spoken. which
writing must accompany the petition .. 

Section 4031. Lettt-r• to (Hue to E:i:ecutor Named: 
The court admitting a will to probate. after the same is proved and
allowed, must issue letters thereon to the persons named therein as 
executors, who are competent to discharge the trust, who must appear
~11d qualify, unless objection is made, as hereinafter provided. 

Section 4039. Who are lncompeteint a8 Exec11tons: 
No person is competent to serve as executor who. at the time the
will is admitted to probate, is : 
1. Under the age of majority: 
2. Convicted of an infamous crime:
3. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of 
the trust by reason of drunkenness. improvidence, or want of under­
standing or integrity. 
If the sole executor or all the executors are incompetent, or re­
nounce or fail to apply for letters, or to appear and qualify, letters
of administration with the will annexed must be issued. 

Section 4033. Objection to Execu1or, Pro~~edinJ(11
Thereon: Any person interested in a will may file objections in 
wrrtmg, or granting letters testamentary to the persons named .rs
executors. or any of them. and the objections must he heard an-I 
determined by the court. A petition may. at the same time. be filed
for letters of administration, with the will annexed.

Section 4034. Married Weman a8 Exf'cutrtu When
an unmarried woman. appointed as executrix. marries. her author­
ity is extinguished. When a married woman is named as executrix
she may be appointed and serve in every respect as a feme sole. 

Section 4093. Eiecutor of an EI~cntor: No executor
of an executor shall. as such. be authorized to administer on the
estate of the first testator. but on the death of the sole or surviving
executor of any last will. letters of administration with the will an­
nexed. of the estate of the first testator. left unadrninistered. must h~ 
issued. 

Section 4036. Procef"din,r,. when Minor A IN«an1_._.
Named Executor: \Vhere a person absent from the State. or rt 
minor is named executor-if there is another executor who accepts
the trust amt qualifies-the latter may have letters testamentary and
administer the estate until the return of the absentee or the ma ior­
itv of the minor. who may then be admitted as joint executor. · If
t!:?re is no other executor, letters of administration with the will an- 
nexed, must be granted; but the court may, in its discretion, revoke
them on the return of the absent executor or the arrival of the minor
at the age of majority. 

Section 887'. A.ct8 oC a Pertion eC Exet~utor• Valid: 
When all the executors named are not appointed by the court, those
appointed have the same authority to perform all acts and discharge
the trust required by the will, as effectually for every purpose as if
all were appointed and should act together; where there are two ex­
ecutors or administrators, the act of one alone shall be effectual, if 
the other is absent from the State or laboring under any legal dis­
ability from serving, or if he has given his co-executor or co-admin ·
istrator authority, in writing to act for both; and where there are 
more than two executors or administrators, the act of a majority is 
valid.

Section 4038. Form eC Letten Tntamentary: Let­ 
ters testamentary must be substantially in the following form:
"State of Idaho, county of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The last will oi 
A. B., deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed, having been
proved and recorded in the probate court of the county of ,
C. D., who is named therein. is hereby appointed executor. Witness, G. H., c1erk of the probate court of the county of ,
with the seal of the court affixed, the day of. . . . . . . . . . .A. 
D., 19 ...
[Seal.] 
By order of the court. G. H., Clerk." 

Section 4089. .tl.uthority oC &dminit1trator• witla
Will .A.nneied: Administrators with the will annexed have the
same authority over the estates which executors named in the will
would have, and their acts are as effectual for all purposes. Their
letters must be signed by the clerk of the court and bear the seal
thereof. 

Section 4840. Form oC Letten of· A.dtni11it1tration
with Will &nnesed: Letters of administration. with the will
annexed must be substantia11y in the following form: 
"The State of Idaho. county of. . . . . . . . . . The last will of A. B.,
deceased, a copy of which is hereto annexed. having been proved
and recorded in the probate court of the county of , and
there being no executor named in the will ( or as the case may be,) 
C. D .. is hereby appointed administrator with the will annexed.
Witness. G. H .. clerk of the probate court of the county of . 
with the seal of the court affixed, the day of. ,
A .. D., 19 ... 
with the seal of
the court aﬁixed,
the
. . . . .
.
. .
A.
D.,


Section 4041. Order of' Persons Entitled to A.dmiu­
i•iter: Administration of the estate of a person dying intestate must
be granted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned.
and they are respectively entitled thereto in the following order: 
1. The surviving husband or wife or some competent person
whom he or she may request to have appointed; 
2. The children ;
3. The father or mother ;
4. The brothers ; 
5. The sisters ;
6. The grandchildren ; 
7. The next of kin entitled to share in the distribution of the es- 
tate; 
8. Any of the kindred;
9. The public administrator; 
1 o. The creditors ; 
11. Any person legally competent;
lf the decedent was a member of a partnership at the time of hi-. 
decease, the surviving partner must in no case be appointed admin­
istrator of his estate.

Section 404~. Preference oC Pen•n• Equan,· Entitled: Of several persons claiming and equally entitled to admin­
ister, males must be preferred to females, and relatives of the whole 
to those of the half blood. 

Section 4043. lo Discretion o.t· ()ourt, wl,en: When 
there are several persons equally entitled to the administration, the
court may grant letters to one or more of them; and when a creditor
is claiming letters the court may, in its discretion, at the request oi
another creditor grant letters to any other person legally competent. 

Section 4044. When 1'1.inor Entitled, w·ho Ap­
pointed: If any person entitled to administration is a minor, let­
ters must be granted to his or her guardian, or any other person
entitled to letters of administration, in the discretion of the court. 

Section 4.043. Who ar~ (Jompet~n1 a11 Adnaini•tra­
ton: No person is competent to serve as administrator or admini-­ 
tratrix who is: · 
r. Xot a bona fide resident of the State; 
2. Under the age of majority;
3. Convicted of an infamous crime;
4. Adjudged by the court incompetent to execute the duties of 
the trust by reason of drunkenness, improvidence, or want of under­
standing or integrity.

Section 4046. 1'1arried Woman not to be Admiu­
i•tratriI: A married woman must not be appointed administratrix.
When an unmarried woman appointed administratrix marries, her
authority is extinguished. 

Section 4047. A.pplicatlon, how 1'1ade: Petitions for
letters of administration, must be in writing, signed by the applicant
or his counsel and filed with the clerk of the court, stating the facts
essential to give the court jurisdiction of the case, and when known
to the applicant, he must state the names, ages, and residence of the
heirs of the decedent, and the value and character of the property,
If the jurisdictional facts existed, but are not fully set forth in the
petition, the decree or order of administration and subsequent pro·
ceedings are not void on account of such want of jurisdictional aver­
ments.

Section 4.048. When Granted: Letters of administration ·
may be granted at a regular term of the court. or at a special term
apP.ointed by the judge for the hearing of the application.

Section 4049. ~otice of" .. -1.pplicatien: When a peti­
tion praying for letters of administration is filed, the clerk must give
notice thereof by causing notices to be posted in at least three public
places in the county. one of which must be at the place where the
court is held. containing the name of the decedent. the name of the
applicant, and the time at which the application will be heard. Sue: I 
notice must be given at least ten days before the hearing.

Section 4:0:50. ~oatnting A.pplkation: Any person in­
terested may contest the petition by filing written opposition thereto, 
on the ground of the incompetency of the applicant, or may assert
his own rights to the administration and pray that letters be issued to
himself. In the latter case the contestant must file a petition and
give the notice required for an original petition, and the court must
hear the two petitions together. 

Section 4031. Hearing oC Application: On the hear­
ing, it being first proved that notice has been given as herein required,
the court must hear the allegations and proofs of the parties, and order 
thereto.

Section 4-03,,. Evidence of ~o1ice: An entry in the 
minutes of the court, that the required proof was made and notice
given, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact of such notice. 

Section 4-033. Grant 1o A.ny Applicant: Letters of
administration must be granted to any applicant, though it appears
that there are other persons having better rights to the administra­ 
tion, when such persons fail to appear and claim the issuing of let­
ters to themselves. 

Section 4034. What ProeJN Detore Grantil•K Let1en oC A.dmini•tra1ion: Before letters of administration arc
granted on the estate of any person who is represented to have dieu
intestate, the fact of his dying intestate must be proved by the testi­
mony of the applicant or others; and the court may also examine
any other person concerning the time, place and manner of his death,
the place of his residence at the time, the value and character of his
property, and whether or not the decedent left any will, and rhav
compel any person to attend as a witness for that purpose. 

Section 4033. Let1en ••ranted upon Reque8t oa· Per­
•on Entitled: Administration may be granted to one or more
competent persons, although not otherwise entitled to the same, at
the written request of the person entitled, filed in the court. \Vhen
the person entitled is a non-resident of the State, affidavits taken ex
parte before any officer authorized by the laws of this State to take
acknowledgments and administer oaths out of the State. may be re­ 
ceived as primary evidence of the identity of the party. if free from
suspicion and the fact is established to the satisfaction of the court. 

Section 4038. Revocation or J.,euers oC &dnaini111tra­ 
tion: \Vhen letters of administration have heen granted to an.,·
other person than the surviving husband or wife. child. father. mothe.:
brother or sister of the intestate. any one uf them who is competent . 
or any competent person at the written request of any of them, may
obtain the revocation of the letters and be entitled to the administra ·
tion by presenting to the court a petition praying the revocation and
that letters of administration may be issued to him.

Section 4037. Uitatioo and Notice Required: When
such petition is filed, the clerk must in addition to the notice re­
quired on application for letters, issue a citation to the administrator
to appear and answer the same at the time appointed for the hearing. 

Section 4038. Hearin« ot Petition er Revocation: 
. \t the time appointed, the citation having been duly served and re­
turned, the court must proceed to· hear the allegations and proofs of
the parties, and if the right of the applicant is established and he is
competent, letters of administration must be granted to him and the
letters of the former administrator revoked. 

Section 4039. Prior Bigh1• 0.1· Relative• En1itleN 
them to B~voke: The surviving husband or wife, when letters
of administration have been granted to a child, father, brother, or
sister of the intestate; or any of such relatives, when letters have
been granted to any other of them, may assert his prior right, and
obtain letters of administration, and have the letters before granted
revoked in the manner prescribed in the three preceding sections. 

Section 4080. lt'orm or Le1tert1 ol' A dmini•tration: 
Letters of administration must be signed by the clerk under the seal
of the court, and substantially in the following form : 
"State of Idaho, county of. . . . . . . . C. D. is hereby appointed
administrator of the estate of A. B., deceased. 
[Seal.] Witness, G. H., Clerk of the Probate Court of the county
nf with the seal thereof affixed, the day of 
............ A. D .. 19 

Section 4081. Oatla. Recording J.,e1ter1, and Bo11d: 
Before letters testamentary or of administration are issued to the exc­
rutor or administrator, he must take and subscribe an oath before
s, une officer authorized to administer oaths. that he will perform. ac­
l·, irding to law. the duties of executor or administrator, which oath
must he attached to the letters. All letters testamentary and of ad­
ministration issued to. and all honds executed by executors or ad·
ministrators. with the affidavits and certificates thereon. must be forthwith recorded by the clerk of the court having jurisdiction of the es­
tates, in books to be kept by him in his office for that purpose. 

Section 408~. Bond ot· A.dmini•trator, t'orm and
Beq11irement1J: Every person to whom letters testamentary or
of administration are <lirected to issue, must, before receiving them,
execute a bond to the State of Idaho, with two or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the probate judge. In form, the bond
must be joint and several, and the penalty must not be less than
twice the value of the personal property, and twice the probable
value of the annual rents, profits and issues of the real property be­
longing to the estate, which .values must be ascertained by the pro­
bate judge, by examinig on oath the party applying, and any other
persons. 

Section 4063. A.dditional Bondl!I, when Required: 
The probate judge must require an additional bond whenever the sale
of any real estate belonging to an estate is ordered; but no sucn
additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily appears co 
the court that the penalty of the bond given before receiving letters,
or of any bond given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of
the personal property remaining in, or that will come into, the pos­
session of the executor or administrator, including the annual rents.
profits, and issues of real estate, and twice the probable amount c.:J 
be realized on the sale of the real estate ordered to he sold. 

Section 4084. (;ondilion• oC Bond•: The bond must oe
conditioned that the executor or administrator shall faithfully ex­
ecute the duties of the trust according to law. 

Section '1063. ~e1·~ral A..dministrators to Gh'e s~p­ 
araCe Bonds: \ Vhen two or more persons are appointed execu­
tors or administrators. the probate judge must require and take a sen­
arate bond from each of them

Section 4:088. Keco-verie• had •• Bond: The bond
shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may be sued and re­
covered upon from time to time, by any person aggrieved, in his
own name, until the whole penalty is exhausted. 

Section 1087. Bond•, J u11tiflcation 0.1· !!iuretie•. A..p­
pro-val : In all cases where bonds or undertakings are required co 
1Je given, under this Title, the sureties must justify thereon as re­
quired by this Code, and the certificate thereof must be attached tu,
and filed and recorded with the bond or undertaking. All such bonds
and undertakings must be approved by the probate Judge before being
filed or recorded. 

Section 4:08M. Requirement• ot· A.dditional Security: 
He fore the probate judge approves any bond required under this Title,
he may of his own motion, or at any time after the approval of sucn 
bond, upon the motion of any person interested in the estate, supporteJ 
by affidavit that any one or all of such sureties are not worth as much
as they have justified to, order a citation to issue, requiring such
sureties to appear before him, at a certain time and place, to testify
touching their property and its value; and the judge must, at the time
such citation is issued, cause a notice to be issued to the executor or ad­
ministrator, requiring his appearance at the return of the citation.
L pon the return of the citation, the judge may swear and examine the
sureties, and such witnesses as may be produced, touching the proper~·
CJf such sureties and its value; and if, upon such investigation, the
judge is satisfied that the bond is insufficient, he may require sufficient
additional security. within such time as may be reasonable, not less
than five days. 

Section 4089. Right Cea•e• when Security not
t.iwen: If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed by
the judge's order, the right of such executor or administrator to the
• administration shall cease, and the person next entitled to the admin­ 
istration on the estate, who will execute a sufficient, bond, must be ap­
pointed to the administration. 

Section 4070. Rood Di1tpen•ed 11·ith when Will l!JO 
Prowidet!I: When it is expressly provided in the will of a testator
that no bond is required of the executor. letters testamentary may 
i-sue and sales of real estate he made and confirmed without anv
honrl being gi,·en: hut an executor to whom letters are issued witl;11t1t lxuul, may at :u1y time a fterward ( when it appears from any
cause. m·ce~~ary ( rr pn ,per). he required t,, file a bond as in other 
cases.

Section 4071. Petition Nhowing .t,ailing· ~uretin
.t,urlher Bond•: Any person interested in an estate may, by
verified petition, represent to the probate judge that the sureties or 
the executor or administrator thereof have become or are becoming
insolvent, or that they have removed, or about to remove from the
State, or that from any other cause the bond is insufficient, and ask 
that
further
security
be
required.

Section 407». Uitation• to E1ecutor to Nhow t.;au•e: 
lf the probate judge is satisfied that the matter requires investi­
gation, a citation must be issued to the executor or administrator.
requiring· him to appear at a time and place to be therein specified,
to show cause why he should not give further security. The citation
must be served personally on the executor or administrator, at least
five days before the return day. If he has absconded or cannot bt;
found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it at his last place of 
residence or by such publication as tne court or judge may order. 

Section 4073. 14,urther Necurity may be Orde1•ed : 
On the return of the citation or at such other time as the judge may
appoint, he must proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the
parties. If it satisfactorily appears that the security is from any
cause insufficient, he may make an order requiring tne executor or
administrator to give further security or to file a new bond in the
usual form, within a reasonable time, not less than flve days. 

Section 4074. 1'e1"lectin5 to Obey Order: If the exe­
cutor or administrator neglects to comply with the order within the
time prescribed, the judge must, by order, revoke his letters, and his
authority must thereupon cease. 

Section 4073. N1111pending Power11 oC Executor: When 
a petition is presented praying that an executor or administrator be 
required to give further security, or to give bond, where, by the.
terms of the will, no bond was originally required, and it is allege<l
on oath that the executor or administrator is wasting the property
of the estate, the judge may by order suspend his powers until the
matter can be heard and determined. 

Section 4076. Further Necurity Ordered without
A.pplication: When it comes to his knowledge that the bond oi 
any executor or administrator is. from any cause, insufficient, the
probate judge, without any application. must cause him to be cited 
to appear and show cause why he should not g-iYe further security. 
and must proceed thereon a~ t1p1111 the application of any person in­
terested. 

Section 4077. Rti!lea•e of· Sure-tin: When a surety of
any executor or administrator desires to be released from responsibil­
ity on account of future acts, he may make application to the probate
court or judge for relief. The court or judge must cause a citation
to the executor or administrator to be issued, and served personally.
requiring him to appear at a time and place to be therein specified.
and to give other security. If he has absconded. left, or remove-I 
from the State, or if he cannot be found after due diligence and in­
quiry, service may be made as provided in Section 4072. 

Section 4078. New Sur~tiet1: If new sureties· be given to
the satisfaction of the judge. he may thereupon make an order that 
the sureties who applied for relief shall not be liable on their bond
for any subsequent act, default. or misconduct of the executor or a<l­
ministrator. 

Section 4079. :Necle~t to Gh·•, For,eit11 Letten: 1 f 
the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to give new sure­
ties. to the satisfaction of the judge. on the return of the citation, or
within such reasonable time as the judge shall allow, unless the surety
making the application shall consent to a longer extension of time.
the court or judge must. hy order. revoke his letters. 

Section 40~0. A ppli~a1ion8 may be Df't•rmlnf'd an,·
Time: The applications authorized hy the nine preceding section, 
of this Chapter may he heard and determined at any time. A 11
orders made therein must he entered upon the minutes of the cour:. 

Section 4081. ~pedal Admlniwtrat_or•, when Ai•· 
pointed : \ Vhen there is delay in granting letters testamentary o,..
nf administration, from any cause, or when such letters are granted
irregularly. or no sufficient bond is filed as required, or when no ap­
plication is made for such letters. or when an administrator or exe­
cutor <lies. or is suspended or removed. the probate judge must ap­
point a special administrator to collect and take charge of the estate
of the decedent. in whatever countv or counties the same mav be
found. and to exercise such other powers as may be necessary for
the preservation of the estate: or he may direct the public adrnini,s­
trator of his county to take charge of the estate.

Section 4082. Special Lettt-rl!I I1u1ued out ol Term: 
The appointment may be made at any time, and without notice, and 
must be made by entry upon the minutes of the court, specifying
the powers to be exercised by the administrator, upon such order be­
ing entered, and after the person appointed has given bond, the
clerk must issue letters of administration to such person, in con­ 
formity with the order. 

Section 4083. PreCerence Given Penons Entitletl to
Letten: In making the appointment of a special administrator,
the probate judge must give preference to the person entitled to let­
ters testamentary or of administration. hut no appeal must be al­ 
lowed from the appointment. 

Section 4084. Spe-cial Administrator, Bond and 
Oath: Before any letters issue to any special administrator, he 
must give bond in such sum as the probate judge may direct, with
sureties to the satisfaction of the judge. conditioned for the faithfrl
performance of his rluties : and he must take the usual oath and have
the same endorsed on his letters. '

Section 4083. Dutin of· Siwcial A.dmini'-ltrator: 
The special administrator must collect and nreserve for the executor
or administrator. all the goods. chattels. debts. and effects of the
decedent. an incomes. rents. issues and profits. claims and demands of
the estate: must take the charge and management of. enter upon and
preserve from· damage. waste. and injury. the real estate. and for
any such and all necessary purposes. may commence and maintain.
or defend. suits and other legal nroceedinzs. as an administrator: he
may sen such perishable nronerty as the probate court may order to
he sold. and exercise such other powers as are conferred upon him
hy his appointment. but in no case is he liable to an action by anv 
creditor on a claim against the decedent.

Section 40~8. When 8peeial Adminirilfrator'11 Pow­ 
en Cea•e: When letters testamentarv or of administration on
the estate of the decedent have been ~ranted. the powers of the 
special administrator cease. and he must forthwith deliver to the
executor or administrator. all the nronertv and effects of the deced­ 
ent in his hands: and the executor or administrator mav nrosecute t,1 
final judgment any suit commenced hv the special administrator. 

Section 4087. Special Administrator to Rf'nder Ac-­
count: The special administrator must render an account on oath.
of his proceedings. in like manner as other administrators are required 
to do. 

Section 4088. Proof of Will After Letters of Admini•tratlon Revoked: If. after granting letters of administra­
tion on the ground of intestacy. a will of decedent is duly proved
and allowed by the court, the letters of administration must he re­
voked, and the power of the administrator ceases, and he must ren­ 
der an account of his administration within such time as the court
shall direct. 

Section 4889. Power or Exf'~oter in tsu~h C;a-e: 111 
such case, the executor or the administrator. with the will annexed,
is entitled to demand. sue for. recover. and collect all the rights,
goods. chattels. debts. and effects of the decedent remaining unad­ 
ministered. and may prosecute to final judgment any suit commenced
by the administrator before the revocation of his letters of adminis­
tration.

Section 4090. llemalnina- Exe~otor to C;ontinnf"
when one Diwqualifled: :In case anv one of several executors
or administrators. to whom letters are gr~nted. dies. becomes a luna­
tic. is convicted of an infamous crime, or otherwise becomes incapa­
ble of executing the trust : or in case the letters testamentary or of
administration are revoked or annulled. with respect to any one exe­
cutor or administrator. the remaining- executor or administrator
must proceed to complete the execution of the wilt or administration. 

Section 4091. Prot•t•dor«a upon Df'ath or la~apa.-u,· 
of' A.II: T f a11 such executors or administrators die or become in­ 
capable, or the power and authority of all of them is revoked. the
nrobate court must issue letters nf administration with the will an­
nexed. or otherwise. to the widow. or next of kin, or others. in the
same order and manner as is directed in relation to original letters
of administration. The administrators so appointed must give bond
in the like penalty. with like sureties and conditions. as hereinheforc 
required of administrators. and shall have the like power and author­
ity.

Section 4092. R«at1ipation, Liability C;on11nu«a8, A p­ 
pointment oC8ucc~Hor: Any executor or administrator may. at
any time, by writing. filed in the probate court. resign his appoint­ 
ment. having first settled his accounts and delivered up a11 the
estate to the person whom the court shall appoint to receive the
same. T f. however, bv reason of anv rlelavs in such settlement an, 1
deliverng up of the estate, or for anv other cause. the circurnstances 
of the estate or the rights of those interested therein require it. the
court may. at any time- hefore settlement of accounts and delivering­
up of the estate is completed. revoke the letters of such executor or
administrator. and appoint in his stead an administrator. either special
or general. in the same manner as is directed in relation to original
letters of administration, The liahilitv of the outgoing executor or 
administrator, or of the sureties on his bond, shall not be in any man­
ner discharged, released, or affected, by such appointment or resigna­ 
tion.

Section 4099. A.ch of Ex .. eutor Valid until Pow«ar
ReYoked: All acts of an executor or administrator. as such, be­
fore the revocation of his letters testamentary or of administration.
are as valid. to all intents and purposes. as if such executor or ad­ 
ministrator had continued lawfully to execute the duties of his trust. 

Section 4094. TranMcript of" Court, M.in11tt""t11 at1 Evi­
dence: A transcript from the minutes of the court, showing the
appointment of any person as executor or administrator, together
with the certificate of the clerk under his hand and the seal of his
court. that such person has given hond and been qualified. and that
letters testamatary or of administration have heen issued to him
and have not been revoked. shall have the same effect in evidence as
the letters themselves. 

Section 409:J. When Judge Diwqualiflf'd: No probate
court shall admit to probate any will. or grant letters testamentary
or of administration, in any case where the judge thereof is interested
as next of kin to the decedent. or as a legatee or devisee under the will. 
or when he is named as executor or trustee in the will. or is a wit­ 
ness thereto, or is in any other manner· interested ar disqualified
from acting. 


Section 4096. Judge Di8quallfted, Proc«aeding• Tran11f"erred: \Vhen a petition is filed in the probate court praying for
admission to the probate nf a will. or for granting letters testamen­
tary or of administration. or when proceedings are pending in the
probate court for the settlement of an estate. amt the presiding judze
of the court is disqualified to act from any cause. upon his own or the
motion of any person interested in the estate. he must make an or­
der transferring the proceeding to the probate court of an adjoining
county; and the clerk of the court ordering the transfer must trans­
mit to the clerk of the court to which the proceeding is ordered to he
transferred, a certified copy of the order and all the papers on file in his
office in the proceeding: and thereafter the probate court to which 
the proceeding is transferred shall exercise the same authority and 
juirisdiction over the estate. and a11 matters relating to the adminis­
tration thereof. as if it had original jurisdiction of the estate. 

Section 4097. Tran•Cer not to Change •ighf to A.d­
mini•ter, Retran•rer: The transfer of a proceeding from one
court to another. as provided for in the preceding Section. shall not 
affect the right of any person to letters testamentary or of adminis­
tration on the estate transferred. but the same persons are entitled to
letters testamentary or of administration on the estate in the order
herein before provided. If before the administration is closed of any
estate so transferred as herein provided. another person is elected or 
appointed. and qualified as probate judge of the county wherein such
proceeding was originally commenced, who is not disqualified to act
in the settlement of the estate. and the causes for which the proceed­
ing was transferred no longer exist. any person interested in the es­
tate may have the proceeding returned to the court from which it
was originally transferred by filing a petition setting forth these facts 
.md moving the court therefore. 

Section 4098. When Proceedinst11 Returned to Ori«­
ioa I Court: On hearing the motion. if the facts required by the
preceding Section to be set out in the petition are satisfactorily
shown. and it further appears to the court that the convenience of par­
ties interested would he promoted hy such change. the judge must
make an order transferring the proceeding hack to the probate court
where it was originally comrnenced : and the clerk of the court order­
ing the transfer must transmit to the clerk of the court in which the
proceeding was originally commenced, a certified copy of the order
and all the original papers on file in his office in the proceeding; and
the court where the nroceeding was originally commenced shall
thereafter have jurisdiction and power to make all necessary orders
and decrees to close up the administration of the estate.

Section 4099. fllu•pension of Pow en o, Eie~11tor: 
Whenever the probate judge has reason to believe. from his own
knowledge or from credible information that any executor or admin­
istrator has wasted, embezzled. or mismanaged. or is about to waste
or embezzle the property of the estate committed to his charge. or
has committed or is about to commit. a fraud upon the estate. or 's
incompetent to act. or has permanently removed from the State. or
has wrongfully neglected the estate or has long neglected to perform
any act as such executor or administrator. he must. by an order
entered upon the minutes of the court. suspend the powers of such
executor or administrator until the matter is investigated. 

Section 4100. Notice oC So•pea•ion and Citation to
A.ppear: When such suspension is made, notice thereof must be
given to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear
and show cause why his letters should not be revoked. If he fails
to appear in obedience to the citation, or. if appearing, the court is sat­
isfied that there exists cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked
and letters of administration granted anew as the case may require. 

Section -1101. A.ppearaoce, Aller;ation, A.011wer,
Bearing: At the hearing. any person interested in the estate may,
appear and file his allegation in writing, showing that the executor
or administrator should be removed; to which the executor or admin­
istrator may demur or answer, as hereinbefore provided. The issues
raised must be heard and determined by the court. 

Section 4f Og. Netlce to 1'.bl'conding Exec11ton and
&dminl•traton : If the executor or administrator has ahsconde<l
or concealed himself, or has removed or absented himself from the
State, notice may he given him of the pendency of the proceedings by
publication in such manner as the court may direct. and the court
may proceed upon such notice as if the citation had been personally 
served. 

Section 4103. May Compel Attendanre: In the pro­
ceedings authorized by the preceding Sections for the removal of an
executor or administrator. the court may compel his atendance hv
attachment and may compel him to answer questions. on oath,
touching his administration, and. upon his refusal so to do. mav 
commit him until he obey, or may revoke his letters. or hoth.

Section 4104. lnYentory to be Ret11rned: Every
executor or administrator must make and return to the court, at its
first term after his appointment, a true inventory and appraisernent
of all the estate of the decedent, including the homestead, if any,
which has come to his possession or knowledge. 

Section ,1103. A.pprai8f•1Dent and Pay of A.pprais~r•: 
To make the appraisernent, the probate judge or court must appoint
three disinterested persons ( any two of whom may act), who are
entitled to receive a reasonafile compensation for their services, not
to exceed four dollars per day. to be allowed by the court or judge.
The appraisers must. with the inventory. file a verified account of
their services and disbursements. If any part of the estate is in any
other county than that in which letters issued. appraisers thereof may
he appointed, either hy the probate judge, having jurisdiction of the
estate. or by the probate judge of such other county. on request of
the judge having jurisdiction. 

Section 4108. Oath or >lpprai•en; Inventory, how
Jlade: Before proceeding to the execution of their duty, the ap­
praisers. hefore any officer authorized to adrninistre oaths. must take
and subscribe an oath. to he attached to the inventory, that they will
truly. honestly. and imnartiallv appraise the property exhibited to
them. or which shall come to their knowledge. according- to the be . st
of their knowledge and ability, They must then proceed to estimate
and appraise the property: each article must he set down separately.
with the value thereof in dollars and cents. in figures. opposite to
the articles resnectivelv : the inventorv must contain all the estate of
the decedent. real and personal. a statement of all debts. partne··­
ships. and other interests. bonds, mortgages. notes. and other secur­
ities for the pavment of money helonginz to the decedent, specifv ·
in~ the name of the debtor in each securitv. the date. the sum orizi­ 
na11y payable. the inrlorsernents thereon (if any). with their dates.
and the sum which. in the judzrnent of the aonraiser. may be col­
lected on each debt. interest. or security: the inventorv must show.
so far as the same can be ascertained h~ the executor ~r the admin­
istrator what nor+ion of the property · is community nroperty and
what portion is the separate property of the decedent. 

Section 4107. Jloney .. Inventory to Include. £.p­ 
prai•em~nt 1Tnnecet111ary: The inventory must also contain
an account of nll monevs belong-inv. to the decedent which have come
to the hands of the executor or administrator. and if none. the facr
must he so stated in the inventorv, T f the whole estate consists 0£ 
money, there need not be an annraisernent. hut an inventorv must •,e
made. and returned as in other cases: 

Section 410S. Efrect ot· .Nami•I' a Debtor Executor: 
The naming of a person as executor does not thereby discharge him
from any · just claim which the testator has against him, but the
claims must be included in the inventory. and the executor is liable
for the same. as for so much money in his hands. when the debt or
demand becomes due.

Section 4109. Di•~harge oC •qnettt or Debt: The
discharge or bequest in a will. of any debt or demand of the testator
against the executor named. or any other person. is not valid against
the creditors of the decedent. hut is a specific bequest of the demand
or debt. It must be included in the inventory, and, if necessary. ap­
plied in the payment of the debts. If not necessary for that pur­ 
pose. it must be paid -in the same manner and proportion as other
specific legacies.

Section 4110. Oath to Inventory: The inventory
must he signed hy the appraisers. and the executor or administrator 
must take amt subscribe an oath before an officer authorized to ad­
minister oaths. that the inventorv contains a true statement of all the
estate of the decedent which has ·come to his knowledge or possession.
and particularly of all money belonging to the decedent. and of al!
just claims of the decedent against the affiant. The oath must he
indorsed upon or annexed to the inventory. 

Section 4111. Lettera ReYoked Cor N~slect of' Ad­
mini•trator: If an executor or administrator neglects or refuses
to return the inventory within the time prescribed. or within such
further time. not exceeding two months. which the court or judze 
shall, for reasonable cause. allow. the court may. uoon notice revoke
the letters testarnentarv or of administration. and the executor or 
administrator is liable ·on his bond for any injury to the estate, or 
any person interested therein. arising from such failure. 

Section 4119. lnYentory of A.ft~r Dit1~ov~nad Prop­
erty: Whenever property of more than two hundred and fiftv
dollars in value. not mentioned in an inventorv that is made and
filed. comes to the possession or knowledge o( an executor or ad­
ministrator. he must cause the same to he appraised in the manner
prescribed in this chapter. and an inventorv thereof to he returned
within two months after the discovery: and the making of such in­
ventory may be enforced after notice. hv attachment or removal frnrn 
office

Section 4118. E.s:ecoter te P•••eu Real and Penoaal
Eetate: The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession
of all the real and personal estate of the decedent, and to receive the
rents and profits of the· real estate, until the estate is settled, or until
delivered over by order of the probate court to the heirs or devisees;
and must keep in good tenantable repair all houses, buildings, and
fixtures thereon, which are under his control. The heirs or devisees
may themselves, or jointly with the executor or administrator, main·
tain an action for the possession of the real estate or for the purpose
of quieting title to the same, against any one except the executor or
administrator; but this section shall not be construed as requiring
them so to do.

Section 4114-. To Denver Real E•tate to Heir•: Un­ 
uess it satisfactorily appears to the probate court, that, the rents,
issues and profits of the real estate for a longer period, are necessary 
10 be received by the executor or administrator, wherewith to pay
the debts of the decedent. or that it will probably be necessary to sell
the real estate for the payment of such debts, at the end of the time
limited for the presentation of claims against the estate, the court
rnurt direct the executor or administrator to deliver possession of all
the real estate to the heirs at law or devisees. 

Section 4113. Embezzling EeCate ae,ore Grant ot·
Letteir• Tntamentary: If any person before the granting of let­ 
tcr.s testamentary or of administration, embezzles or alienates any of
the: T110~1eys, goods, chattels or effects of a decedent, he is charge· 
abl- thei ewith :me! liable to an action by the executor or admin­
istrate. (it the estate for double the value of the property so embezzled
or alienated. to he recovered for the benefit of the estate. 

Section 4-118 Cita&ion to Penen 8u•pe~ted oC Em­
bezzlement, etf:.: If any executor. administrator or other person
interested in ~ he estate of a decedent. complains to the probate jndrre
on oath. that <'LY person is suspected to have concealed. ernl« ;;;.'k(l. 
smuggled. conveyed away or disposed of any monies, goods or chat­
tels of the decedent or has in his possession or knowledge, any d '!ed::,
conveyances, l onls, contracts or other writings which contain evi­ 
deuces of, 11r tend to disclose the right, title, interest or d~ im of the
decedent to any real or personal estate, or any claim or denand. or
any last -vill. . hf jt,rif,l' may cite such person to appear be.ore the
probate court. and may examine him on oath upon the matter of
such complaint. If such person is not in the county where letters
have been granted, he may be cited and examined, either before the
probate court of the county where he is found, or befor the court is­
suing the citation. But if in the latter case he appears and is found
innocent, his necessary expenses must be allowed him out of the
estate,

Section 4117'. Procedure, Penalty, Damagf'8, Order
and Commi1naent: If the person so cited refuse to appear and 
submit to an examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may
I.·· put to him, touching the matters of the complaint, the court may. 
by warrant for that purpose, commit him to the county jail, there to
remain in close custody until he submits to the order of the court, or
is discharged according to law. If upon such examination it appea1·:; 
that he has concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away or dis­
posed of any monies, goods or chattels of the decedent, or that he 
has in his possession or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds.
contracts or other writings tending to disclose the right, title, in­
terest or claim of the decedent to any real or personal estate. claim
or demand, or any last will of the decedent, the probate court may
make an order requiring such person to disclose his knowledge 
thereof to the executor or administrator, and may commit him to the
county jail there to remain until the order is complied with or he is
discharged according to law: and all such interrogatories and an­
swers must be in writing, signed by the party examined, and be filed
in the probate court. The order for such disclosure made upon such
examination, is primary evidence of the right of such administrator
to such property in any action brought for the recovery thereof: and 
any judgment recovered therein must be for double the value of the
property as assessed by the court or jury. or for return of the prop­
erty. and damages in addition thereto. equal to the value of suc'i 
property. In addition to the examination of the party. witnesses 
may be produced and examined on either side.

Section 4118. Per•on• En1rus1ed wif h E1da1e, Ci1t'd
to A.c~oun1: The probate judge. upon the complaint. on oath. 
c .f any monies. goods. chattels, bonds, accounts. or other propertv
or papers helong-ing to the estate. which ha H' come to his possession
in trust for the executor or administrator. and of his proceediuc- 
thereon; and if the person so cited refuses to appear and render such
account, the court may proceed against him as provided in the pre ceding section. 

Section 4119. Wldew and 1"inor Children Remain
la Decedent'• Bout1e: When a person dies leaving a widow or
minor children. the widow or children, until letters are granted and
the inventory is returned, are entitled to remain in possession of the
homestead. of all the wearing apparel of the family, and of all the
household furniture of the decedent. and are also entitled to a rea­
sonable provision for their support. to be allowed by the probate
judge. 

Section 4190. Property Exempt Crom Execution, Set
A.part .ror Family: Upon the return of the inventory, or at any
subsequent time during the administration, the court or the probate
judge may, on his own motion or on petition therefore, set apart for
the use of the surviving husband or wife, or the minor children of
the decedent, all property exempt from execution,- including the
homestead selected. designated, and recorded. If none has been se­
lected. designated, and recorded. the judge of the court must selecr, 
designate. set apart. and cause to be recorded. a homestead for the
use of the persons hereinhefore named in the manner provided in this chapter, out of the real estate belonging to the decedent. 

Section 41~1. May iftake Extra Allo11·ance: }f the
amount set apart be insufficient for the support of the widow and
children, or either, the probate court or judge must make such 
reasonable allowance out of the estate as shall be necessary for the
maintenance of the family, according to their circumstances, during
the progress of the settlement of the estate; which, in case of an in­
solvent estate, must not be longer than one year after granting let­
ters testamentary or of administration. 

Section 419~. Payment oC Allowance•: Any allow­
ance made by the court or judge, in accordance with the provisions 
of this chapter, must be paid in preference to all other charges ex­
cept funeral charges and expenses of administration; and any such
allowance, whenever made, may, in the discretion of the court or
judge, take effect from the death of the decedent. 

Section 4123. Apportionment Betw·een Surl'h"on
and Uhildren: When property is set apart to the use of the fam­
ily, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if the dece­ 
dent left a widow or surviving husband, and no minor child, such
property is the property of the widow or surviving husband. If the
decedent left also a minor child or children, the one-half of sucn
property shall belong to the widow or surviving husband, and the re­ 
mainder to the child, or in equal shares to the children, if there be
more than one. If there be no widow or surviving husband, the
whole belongs to the minor child or children. If the property set
apart be a homestead, selected from the separate property of the de­
ceased. the court can only set it apart for a limited period. to be des­
ignate<l in the order, and the title vests in the heirs of the deceased
subject to such order.

Section 41~4. E•tate11 LeH thaa Filleen Hundred
Dollars, Summarily Administered: If. upon the return or
the inventory of the estate of a deceased person. it shall appear 
therefrom that the value of the whole estate does not exceed the sum 
11f fifteen hundred dollars. and if there be a widow or minor chil 
drcn of the deceased. the court or a judge thereof shall. by order,
require all persons interested tu appear on a day fixed, to show cause 
why the whole of said estate should not be assigned for the use and
support of the family of the deceased. Notice thereof shall be given
and proceedings had in the same manner as upon the settlement of
accounts of executors and administrators. lf, upon the hearing, the
court finds that the value of the estate does not exceed the sum oi 
fifteen hundred dollars, it. shall, by a decree for that purpose, assign
for the use and support of the widow and minor children, if there ht!
a widow and minor children, and if no widow, then for the children,
if there be any, and. if no children, then for the widow, the whole
of the estate, after the payment of the expenses of the last illness of
the deceased, funeral charges and expenses of administration, and
there must be no further proceedings in the administration, unless
further estate be discovered; and when it so appears that the value of
the whole estate does not exceed the sum of fifteen hundred dollars,
it is in the discretion of the probate judge to dispense with the regu­
lar proceedings, or any part thereof, prescribed in this title, and there
must be had a summary administration of the estate, and an order
of distribution thereof at the end of six months after the issuing of
letters; the notice to creditors must be given to present their claims
within four months after the first publication of such notice, and those
not so presented, are barred as in other cases. 

Section 4Ul3. When all Property to 50 to Childrea: 
If the widow has a maintenance derived from her own property equal
to the portion set apart to her by the preceding sections of this chap­
ter, the whole property so set apart, other than her half of the home­
stead, must go to the minor children. 

Section 4198. Bisht• of" 8urYivor to Home•tead: If 
the homestead selected by the husband and wife or either of them,
<luring their coverture, and recorded while both were living, was se­ 
lected from the community property, or from the separate property
of the person selecting or joining in the selection of the same, it
vests, on the death of the husband or wife, absolutely in the sur vivor. If the homestead was selected from the separate property of
either the husband or the wife, without his or her consent, it vests,
on the death of the person from whose property it was selected.
in his or her heirs, subject to the power of the probate court
to assign it for a limited period, to the family of the decedent.
In either case it is not subject to the payment of any debt or liabil­
ity contracted by or existing against the husband and wife. or either
of them previous to or at the time of the death of such husband or
wife, except in satisfaction of judgments ohtained : 

3. On debts secured by mortgages on the premises, executed an<l
acknowledged for any portion of the pure' iase price thereof, or by 
3.
the husband and wife, or by an unmarried claimant;
4. On debts secured by mortgages on the premises executed and 
recorded before the declaration of homestead was filed for record. 

Section 41 ~,.. Rotnewtead Set on·; Lient.1 Paid by 
E•tate: If the homestead selected and recorded prior to the death 
of the decedent is returned in the inventory. appraised at not exceed­
ing five' thousand dollars in value, the probate court must. by order.
set it , ,ff to the persons in whom title is vested by the nreceding
section. If there are subsisting liens or incumhrances on the home.
stead, they must be paid out of the funds of the estate, if there remain sufficient for that purpose, after the payment of all claims al­
lowed against the estate. 

Section 4Ul8. Precedure; He•eatead DTortla over
Five Tlaeueand Dollar•: If the homestead, as selected and re­
corded, be appraised at more than five thousand dollars, the apprais ·
ers must, before they make their return determine whether the
premises can be divided without material injury, an<l if they find that
they can be thus divided, they must admeasure and set apart to the
parties entitled thereto such portion of the premises, including the
dwelling house, as will amount in value to the sum of five thousand
dollars, and make report thereof, giving the metes, bounds and full 
description of the portion set apart as a homestead. If the ap­
praisers find that the premises exceeded in value, at the time of their 
selection, the sum of five thousand dollars, an<l that they cannot be 
divided without material injury, they must report such finding, and
thereafter the court may make an order for the sale of the premises
and the distribution of the proceeds to the parties entitled therto.

Section 4199. Report of' .&pprai.er .. : Any two of the
appraisers concurring, may discharge the duties imposed upon the
three, and make the report. A dissenting report may be made by
the third appraiser. The report must state fully the acts of the ap
praisers. Both reports may be heard and considered by the court in
determining a confirmation or rejection of the majority report, but 
the minority report must in no case be confirmed. 

Section 130. Uonftrminl' er BejediDI' Report of'
A.pprai•en: When a report of the appraisers is filed, the court· 
must set a day for hearing any objections thereto. from any one
interested in the estate. Notice of the hearing must he given for 
such time and in such manner as the court mav direct. I f the court 
he satisfied that the report is correct. it must h~ c, mfirmed. otherwise
rejected. In case the report is rejected. the court may appoint new 
appraisers to examine and report upon the homestead. and similar
proceedings may he had for the confirmati. )11 or rejection of their 
report as upon the first report. 

Section 131. Uo•t11, to whom Uhar&"eable: The costs
of all proceedings in the probate court provided for in this chapter, 
must be paid by the estate as expenses of administration. Persons
succeeding by purchase, or otherwise, to the interests, rights and title
of successors to homesteads, or to the right to have homesteads set
apart to them as in this chapter provided, have all the rights and
benefits conferred by law on the persons whose interests and rights
they acquire. 

Section 4Ul9.• (Jertifled Uopie• oC Order• to be Re­
corded; A certified copy of every final order made in pursuance
of this chapter, by which a report is confirmed, property assigned or
sale confirmed, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county where the homestead property is situated. 

Section 4133. ~otice to UreditorN: Everv executor or
administrator must. immediately after his appointment. cause to he
published in some newspaper of the county. if there he one. if not.
then in such newspaper as may he designated hy the court. a notice 
to the creditors of the decedent. requiring all persons having claims 
again~t him to exhibit them with the necessary vouchers. to the ex­ 
ecut or or administrator, at the place nf his residence or business, L : 
he specified in the notice. Such notice must he published as often
as the judge or court shall direct. hut not less than once a week fur 
four weeks. The court or judge may also direct additional notice by 
publication or posting. In case such executor or administrator re­
signs. or is removed, before the time expressed in the notice. his
successor must give notice only for the unexpired time allowed for'
such presentation: Provided, That when no newspaper is published
in the county, the notice shall be posted in not less than three publi­
places in the county. one of which sha11 he at the court house door,
for such time, not less than four weeks. as the court may order. 

Section 41:14. Time ExpreHt-d in 'Nott~~= The time 
expressed in the notice must be ten months after its first publica ·
tion, when the estate exceeds in value the sum of fifteen hundred dol­
lars, and four months when it does not.

Section 41:1:1. Copy and Preer or "Notl~e Fllf'd,. Or­
der Made: After the notice is given. as required in the nrecedinz
section. a cony thereof. with the- affidavit of due publication or ,1f
publication and posting- must be filed and upon such affidavit or other
testimonv to the satisfaction of the court. an order or decree show­ 
ing that· due notice to creditors has been g-iven. and directing- that
such order or decree be entered in the minutes and recorded. must he
made by the court.

Section 41:18. Ti111f' within whlt"h Clainat1 1'111t1f ht­ 
Pr.-.11~11ted: :\11 claims arising- unon contracts. whether the same
he due. not due or contingent. must be nresented within the time 
limited in the notice. and anv claim not so nre=ented is barred for . 
ever : Provided. hotoercr, That when it is made to annear hv the
affidavit of the claimant. to the satisfaction of the court or a iudze
thereof that the claimant had no notice as nrovided in this chanter,
by reason of heinz out of the state. it may he presented at any time
before a decree of distribution is entered. 

Section 413'7. _Claim•, Pre•entation Cor A.llow·ance,
ln'tereet: Every claim which is due. when presented to the exe­ 
cutor or administrator. must be supported b! the affidavit of the
claimant, or some one in his behalf. that the amount is justly due.
that no payments have been made thereon which are not credited,
and that there are no offsets to the same, to the knowledge of the
affiant. If the claim be not due when presented. or be contingent,
the particulars of such claim must be stated. When the affidavit i..;
made by a person other than the claimant. he must set forth in the
affidavit the reason why it is not made by the claimant. The oath
may be taken before anv officer authorized to administer oaths.
The executor or administ~ator may also require satisfactory vouchers
or proofs to be produced in support of the claim. If the estate be
insolvent. no greater rate of interest shall he allowed upon any claim
after the first publication of notice to creditors than is allowed on
judgments obtained in the district court. 

Section 4UIS. Probatf' .Judge naay Pre11enl Claim,
A.dion Thereon: Any probate judge may present a claim against 
the estate of a decedent. for allowance. to the executor or adminis­
trator thereof: and if the executor or administrator allows the claim.
he must. in writing. designate some probate iudge of an adjoining
county. who. upon the presentation of such claim to him. is vested
with the same power to allow or reject it as he would have if the will
had heen proved or administration ~ranted in his own county: and the
probate judge nresenting such claim. in case of its rejection by the
executor or administrator. or by such probate judge as shalt have
acted upon it, has the same rig-ht to sue in a proper court for its re­
covery as other persons have when their claims against an estate are
rejected. 

Section 41:19. A.llowance and Reje~tioo or Claim11: 
When a claim. accompanied hy the affidavit required in this chan­
ter. is presented to the executor or administrator. he must indorse
thereon his allowance or rejection. with the dav and date thereof.
T f he allows the claim. it must he presented to tl~e orohate [udze for
his approval. who must. in the same manner. indorse upon. it his al­
lowance or rejection. If the executor or administrator. or the judge
refuse or neglect to indorse such allowance or re iection for ten davs
after the claim has been presented to him. such refusal or neglect ic.
equivalent to a rejection: and if the nresentation he made bv a notarv,
the certificate of such notarv, under sea l. is nrimarv evidence of such
nresentation and rejection. · T f the claim he nresented to the execn­
tor or administrator. before the exniration of the time limited for the
nresentation of claims. the same is nresented in time. though acte-l
upon hv the executor or administrator. and hv the judge. after the 
expiration of such time. 

Section 4140. JlpproTed Claims Filfld. Necurity De­
•crihed. Lest Claims: Everv claim allowed hv the executor 
pr administrator. and approved by the probate judge or a copy
thereof. as hereinafter provided, must, within thirty days thereafter, 
be filed in the probate court. and be ranked among the acknowl­
edged debts of the estate, to be paid in due course of administration.
If the claim is founded on a bond, bill, note, or any other instru­
ment, a copy of such instrument must accompany the claim, and the
original instrument must be exhibited if demanded, unless it is lost
or destroyed, in which case the claimant must accompany his claim
by his affidavit. containing a copy or particular description of such
instrument, and stating its loss or destruction. If the claim or any 
part thereof is secured hy a mortgage or other lien which has been
recorded in the office of the recorder of the county in which the land
affected by it lies. it is sufficient -to describe the mortgage or lien,
and refer to the date. volume. and page of its record. If. in any
case. the claimant has left any original voucher in the hands of the
executor or administrator. or suffered the same to be filed in cour-,
he may withdraw the same when a copy thereof has been already. or
is then, attached to his claim. A brief description of every claim
filed must be entered by the clerk in the register. showing the name
of the c1aimant. the amount and character of the claim, rate of in­
terest and date of allowance. 

Section 4141. Claims Barred by Statute or Limita11ons: No claim must be allowed bv the executor or administrator,
or by the probate judge. which was barred by the statute of limita­
tions, at the time of the death of the decedent. When a claim i,;
presented to the probate judge for his allowance, he may. in his dis­
cretion. examine the applicant and others. on oath. and hear any
other legal evidence touching the validity of the claim. 

Section 49. Rejected Claims; A.ctlon within Three
lffonth•: When a claim is rejected. either by the executor or ad­
ministrator. or the probate judge. the holder must bring suit in the
proper court against the executor or administrator, within three
months after the date of its rejection. if it be then due. or within two
months after it becomes due. otherwise the cJaim is forever barred.

Section 4143. Clai1n• Mm,t be Preeented be,ona 
Nolt: No holder of any claim against an estate shall maintain any
action thereon unless the claim is first presented to the executor or
administrator, except in the following case: An action may be
brought by any holder of a mortgage or lien to enforce the same
against the property of the estate subject thereto, where all recourse
against any other property of the estate is expressly waived in the 
com plaint. 

Section 4144. Tlmf' of' LimUatioo: The time durirn;
which there shall he a vacancv in the administration. must not he
included in any limitations herein prescribed. 

Section 4143. A.llowaoet~ oa· t~laim in Par1: 
ever any c1aim is presented to an executor or administrator. or to the
probate judge. and he is willing to allow the same in part. he must 
state in his indorsement the amount he is willing to allow. If the
creditor refuse to accept the amount allowed in satisfaction of hi.~
claim. he shall recover no costs in any action therefore. brought
against the executor or adrninstrator. unless he recovers a greater
amount than that offered to be allowed. 

Section 4148. E•ect er .Judsment A.pin11t Executor: 
.-\ judgment rendered against an executor or administrator upon any
claim for money against the estate of his testator or intestate, only
establishes the claim in the same manner, as if it had been allowed
by the executor or administrator and the probate judge, and the
judgment must he that the executor or administrator pay in due
course of administration the amount ascertained to be due. A certi­
fied transcript of the judgment must be filed in the probate court. No
execution must issue upon such judgment, nor shall it create any lien
upon the property of the estate or give to the judgment credtor any 
priority of payment. 

Section 4147'. 1'1aJ Refer Doobtf'ul ~laims; Ef'·
~tor: If the executor or administrator doubts the correctness of
any claim presented to him. he may enter into an agreement, :n
writing. with the claimant. to refer the · matter in controversy to
some dsinterested person. to be approved by the probate judge.
Upon filing the agreement and approval of the probate judge in the
office of the clerk of the district court for the county in which the
letters testamentary or of administration were granted. the clerk
must. either in vacation or in term, enter a minute of the order
referring the matter in controversy to the person so selected; or, if 
the parties consent. a reference may be had in the probate court:
and the report of the referee. if confirmed, establishes or rejects the
claim, the same as if it had been allowed or rejected by the executor 
or administrator and the probate judge. 

Section 4148. Trial by Referee, hew Conftrmed, 
alee~~ The referee must hear and determine the matter, and 
make his report thereon to the court in which his appointment is
entered. The same proceedings shall he had in all respects, and
the referee shall have the same powers. be entitled to the same com­
pensation and subject to the same control. as in other cases of refer­
ence. .The court may remove the referee. appoint another in his
place, set aside or confirm his report. and adjudging costs, as in actions
against executors or administrators. and the judgment of the court
thereon, shall be as valid and effectual. in a11 respects as if the same
had been rendered in a suit commenced hy ordinary process. 

Section 4149. Action Pendios at Time or Decea1e: 
If an action is pending against the decedent at the time of his death.
the plaintifff must in like manner present his claim to the executor
or administrator for allowance or rejecton. authenticated as required
in other cases; and no recovery shall be had in the action unless proof 
be made of the presentation required. 

Section 4130. What J11dsment bs not a Lien: A 
judgment rendered against a decedent. dying after verdict or de­
cision on an issue of fact. but before judgment is rendered thereon,
is not a lien on the real property of the decedent. but is payab'e in
rlue course of arlminstration.

Section 4131. Execution te l8111«a •fft-r Dea1h: When
any judgment has heen rendered for or against the testator or intestate
in his lifetime. no execution shall issue thereon after his death. ex­
cept as provided in Title XVI of this Code. :\ judgment aganst
the decedent for the recovery of money. must he presented to the
executor or admnistrator like anv other claim. If execution is ac­
tually levied upon any property· of the decedent before his death.
the same may he sold for the satisfaction thereof: and the officer
making the sale must account to the executor or administrator for
any surplus in his hands. A judgment creditor having a judgment
which was rendered against the testator or intestate in his lifetime. 
may redeem any real estate of the decedent from any sale under fore· 
closure or execution in 1ike manner and with like effect, as if the
judgment debtor was still living. 

Section 4UJ9. Ulalm• or Es:ecutor, Etc., .tl.gain•t
E•tate: If the executor or administrator is a cre<litor of the dece­
dent, his c1aim. duly authenticated by affidavits. must be presented for
allowance or rejection to the probate judge, and its allowance by the 
judge is sufficient evidence of its correctness. and it must be paid as 
other claims. in due course of administration. If. however, the pro­ 
bate judge rejects the c1aim. action thereon may he had against the
«state by the claimant. and summons must be served upon t'ie probate
judge, who may appoint an attorney at the expense of the estrte. to
defend the action. I f the claimant recovers no judgment he must pay
di costs, including defendant's attorney's fees.

Section 4UIS. Es.-cmtor Necleettns Notice 1o Uredt­ 
ton, Re1110Ted: T f an executor or a<lminstrato,,r neglects for two
months after his appointment to give notice to creditors. as pre­
scribed by this Chapter. the court must revoke his letters, and ap­
point some other person in his· stead equally or the next in order entitled to the appointment. 

Section 4Ul4. Executor to Return Statement o,
Claim•: At the same term at whch he is required to return his in­ 
ventory. the executor or administrator must also return a statement
of all claims against the estate which have been presented to him. if 
-.o requred by the court: and from term to term thereafter he n-ust
r.resent a statement of claims subsequently presented to him. J n a 1!
statements he must designate the names of the creditors, the nature
of each claim, when it becomes due or will become due. and whether
it was allowed or rejected by him. 

Section 4133. Payment or lnternt on Claim•: If 
t~~r! ~ apr debt of th~ decedent bearing interest, whether presented 
or not, the executor or administrator may, by order of the court,
pJv the amount then accumulated and unpaid, or any part thereof, at
any time when there are sufficient funds properly applicable thereto,
whether said claim be then due or not; and interest shall thereupon
cease to accrue upon the amount so paid. This Seeton does not apply
to existing debts, unless the creditor consent to accept the amount 

Section 41:56. Penonal E•tate First t"'hargeablfll,
Real Estate, when ~old: The personal estate of the decedent
which comes into the hands of the executor or administrator is first
chargeable with the payment of the debts and expenses; if the good:;.
chattels, rights and credits in the hands of the executor or adrninistra tor are not sufficient to pay the debts of the decedent, the expenses
of administration. and the allowance to the family, the whole of the
real estate may he sold f, ir that purpose hy the executor or adminis­
trator.

Section 41:57. Sale of· Per•onal in Lieu of' Keal
Propt'rty: Whenever it appears to the court on any hearing of an
application for the sale of real property, that it would be for the inter­
est of the estate that personal property of the estate, or some part of
such personal property should be first sold, the court may decree the
sale of such personal property. or any part of it, and the sale thereof
shall be conducted in the same manner as if the application had been
made for the sale of such personal property in the first instance. 

Section 4138. No Salee \'alid, Except by Order Pro­
bate C~ourt: Xo sale of any property of an estate of a decedent is
valid unless made under order of the probate court, except as other­
wise provided in this Chapter. .\11 sales must be reported under oath,
and confirmed by the pr. .hate court before the title of the property sold
passes. 

Section 4139. A.pplleationa Cor Orden o.t· Sale, et~: 
All petitions for orders of sale must be in writing, setting forth the
facts showing the sale to be necessary, and, upon the hearing, any
person interested in the estate may file his written objections which
must be heard and determined. A failure to set forth the facts show­
ing the sale to be necessary will not invalidate the subsequent pro­
ceedngs, if the defect be supplied by the proofs at the hearing, and
the general facts showing the necessity be stated in the order direct­
ing the sale.

Section 4188. But one Petition, Order, and Sale had,
When: When it appears to the court that the estate is insolvent,
or that it will require a sale of all the property of the estate, of every
character, to pay the family allowance, expenses of administration,
and debts, there need be but one petition filed, but one order of sale
made, and but one sale had, except in the case of perishable prop­
erty, which may be sold as provded in the next section. The pro­
bate court, when a petition for the sale of any property, for any of
the purposes herein named, is presented, must inquire fully into the
probable amount required to make all such payments, and if there
be no more estate than sufficent to pay the same, may require but
one proceeding for the sale of the entire estate. In such case the
petition must set forth substantially the facts required in a petition
for the sale of real estate. 

Section 4181. Peri•hable and Depredatlag Property: 
At any time after receiving letters the executor, administrator, or
special administrator, may apply to the court or judge and obtain an
order to sell perishable and other personal property likely to depre­
ciate in value, or which will incur loss or expense by being kept.
and so much other personal property as may be necessary to pay the
allowance made to the family of the decedent. The order for the
sale may be made without notice; but the executor, administrator,
or special administrator is responsible for the property. unless, after
making a sworn return, and on a proper showing, the court shall ap­ 
prove the sale.

Section 418g. Order to Sell P~nonal Property: If
claims against the estate have been allowed and a sale of property is 
necessary for their payment or the expense of administration, the ex ecutor, or admnistrator may apply for an order to sell so much of the 
personal property as may be necessary therefore. Upon filing his peti­
tion, notice of at least five days must be given of the hearng of the
application, either by posting notices or by advertising. He may
also make a similar application, either in vacation or term, from
time to time, so long as any personal property remains in his hands
and sale thereof is necessary. If it is made to appear for the best
interests of the estate, he may at any time after filing the inventory,
in like manner and after giving like· notice, apply for and obtain an
order to sell the whole of the personal property belonging to the
estate, whether necessary to pay debts or not.

Section 4183. Partaenhip Intern&• and C'hoeet1 in
A.ction•: Partnership interests or interests belonging to any es­
tate by virtue of any partnershp formerly existing, interest in per­
sonal property pledged, and choses in action, may be sold in the
same manner as other personal property when it appears to be for the
best interest of the estate. Before confirming the sale of any part­
nership interest, whether made to the surviving partner or to any
other person, the court or judge must carefully inquire into the con­
dition of the partnership affairs, and must examine the surviving
partner if in the county and able to be present in court,

Section 418..J.. Order ot· Sal~, w·hat to Direct, etc.: 
If it appears that a sale is necessary for the payment of debts or the
family allowance. or for the best interest of the estate and the per­
sons interested in the property to be sold, whether it is or is not
necessary to pay the debts or family allowance, the court or judge
must order it to be made. ln making orders and sales for the pay­
ment of debts or family allowance, the court or judge must so direct;
and such articles as are not necessary for the support and subsistarrce
of the family of the decedent, or are not specially bequeathed, must be
first sold. Articles bequeathed must not be sold to pay debts or family
allowance, until alf other personal estate has been applied to the pay­
ment thereof. 

Section 418:1. Sale ot Penonal Property: The! sale
of personal property must he made at public auction, and after pub­ 
lic notice, given for at least ten days, by notices posted in three public
places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, or both. con­
taining the time and place of sale. and a brief description of the prop­
erty to be sold: unless for good reason shown, the probate court or
judge orders a private sale. or a shorter notice. Public sales shall not
he made of any property which is not present at the time of selling it,
.mless the court otherwise order. 

Section 4188. Whea .Eatate Cen•i•t• or .Mine•.: When
the estate of any decedent consists, in whole or in part, of mines or
interests in mines in this State, the same may be sold under the or­
der of 'the probate court having jurisdiction of the estate. 
When the decedent, at the time of his death, was not a citizen of
this State, but had mining interests herein, the probate court of any:
county in this State, in which such mining interests are situated,
may, upon a proper petition of an heir at law of such decedent, or of
any of his co-owners or mining partners in any of said mining inter­
ests, or of any person having any interest in such mining properties.
or in the estate, appoint an administrator, who shall give bonds as
required by the court; that the probate court first acquiring jurisdic­
tion has exclusive jurisdiction of the administration of all of deced­
ent's mining interests in this State, and that after such appointment
of an administrator of such non-resident decedent, creditors may pre­
sent and prove their claims as in other cases, but within such time
as the court may order. 
The probate court may, when it shall appear that the decedent
has no creditors in this State, or, when for other cause it shall seem
best to the court, permit decedent's foreign administrator or repre­
sentative to file certified copies of his letters or authority to represent
the estate, and thereafter he has all the authority of an administrator
appoined under the laws of this State. 

Section 4187. Petitioa oC Sale. .Mining ln1ert'!•1•: 
In the administration of the estate of any decedent the adminis­
trator, or other proper legal representative thereof, or any heir at
law, or creditor of the decedent, or any of his co-owners or mining
partners in mines or mining interests, or any member of any mining
partnership, or mining company in which shares or stocks were held
by deceased, may file in the proper probate court a written petition de­
scribing the mine, interests, or shares which it is desired to sell, and
the condition and situation of the mine or mining interests, or of the
mining company in which such interests or shares are held, and the 
reasons why the sale is desired. 

Section 188. Order to !!!Jhow Uau•e: Upon the presen­
tation of such petition, the probate judge must make an order direct­ 
ing all persons interested to appear before him at a time and place
specified, not less than three nor more than eight weeks from the time
of making such order, or show cause why an order should not be
granted to the executor or administrator to sell such mines, mining
interests, shares, or stocks, as are set forth in the petition and belong·
ing to the estate. A copy of the order to show cause must be per­
sonally served on all persons interested in the estate. at least ten days
before the time appointed for hearing the petition, or published at 
least three successive weeks in such newspaper as the court shall spec- 
ity. If all persons interested Kl the estate, signify, m writing their
assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed with.

Section 4189. Hearing and Order oC !!iale; If, upon
hearing the petition it appears to the satisfaction of the probate judge 
that it is to the interest of such estate that such mining property
or interests of the estate should be sold, or if it appears to his satis­
faction that an immediate sale is necessary in order to secure the just
rights or interests of the mining partner, or tenants in common, such
probate judge must make an order authorizing such administrator or
other legal representative to sell such mines, mining interests or shares,
and for that purpose, when necessary, to enter into written bonds o,·
contracts with parties for the future sale upon such conditions and at
such price as may be considered best, subject to the approval of said
judge.

Section 4170. Sale or Boadio«, Diwpo11ition of· Pro­
ceed•: If the order is made for the sale of the property, such sale
must be made and such proceedings had as are provided for in the sale
of other real estate and property, but, if it be for the bonding or con­ 
tracting for the sale thereof, the administrator or legal representative
must be authorized to enter into a bond or contract for the sale, and,
when necessary, to make and fully execute and place in escrow at
some place approved by such judge, a proper deed of conveyance for
the property. In any case the proceeds of the sale of the property
shall be disposed of as other proceeds and assets of the estate; Pro­ 
uided, That when the decedent was not a citizen of this State, if no
claims are established in the probate court in this State against the
estate, such proceeds, in the absence of any proper objections by par·
ties interested in such estate, must, upon the order of the probate
court, be paid to the proper foreign administrator or representative
or heir of the estate, or to parties entitled thereto as may be deter­
mined by the court, less the cost of the proceedings in the probate
court in this State. 

Section 4171. To ~ell Real Ewtat~, when: When the
personal estate in the hands of the executor or administrator is ex­ 
hausted or insufficient to pay the allowance of the family, the debts
outstanding against the decedent. and the debts. expenses, and charges
of administration. the executor or administrator may sell the real es­
tate for that purpose. upon the order of the probate court. 

Section 117,,. Petition for Sale, what to ~ootaio: 
'l'o obtain such order he must present a verified petition to the pro- 
bate court, or to the judge at chambers, setting forth the amount of
personal estate that has come to his hands, and how much thereof,
if any, remains undisposed of; the debts outstanding against the de­
cedent, as far as can be ascertained or estimated ; the amount due
upon the family allowance, or that will be due after the same has
been in force for one year ; the debts, expenses, and charges of
administration already accrued, and an estimate of what will be or may
accrue during the administration; a description of all the real estate
of which the decedent died seized, or in which he had any interest,
or in which the estate has acquired any interest, and the condition
and value of the respective portions and lots thereof, and whether
the same be community or separate property; the names and ages 'lf
the devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the decedent. If all the mat­
ters above enumerated cannot be ascertained it must be so stated in
the petition. 

Section 4173. Ord~r to Penon• Intefttlted to A..ppear:
Tf it appears to the court of judge. from such petition. that it i.;
necesary to sell the whole or some portion of the real estate for the
purposes and reasons mentioned in the preceding Section. or any of
them. such petition must be filed and an order thereupon made,
directing all persons interested in the estate to appear before the court
at a time and place specified. not less than four nor more than ten
weeks from the time of making such order. to show cause why an
Imler should not be granted to the executor or administrator to sell 
so much of the real estate of the decedent as is necessary. 

Section 41'74. Copy Served, A.81eot Given, or Publi·
ca tio·n: :\ copy of the order tn show cause must be personally 
served on all persons interested in the estate. and on any general
guardian nf any minor. or devisee. or heir of the decedent resident
in the county, at least five days before the time appointed for hear- 
ing the petition, or must be published at least four successive weeks
in such newspaper as the court or judge shall direct. 
The notice is served if the publication is completed five days be­
fore the day set for hearing. If all persons interested in the estate
join in the petition for the sale, or signify in writing their assent
thereto, the notice may be dispensed with. 

Section 17:1. Bearing A.fter ProoC ot· Ser-Yi~e: The 
probate court, at the time and place appointed in such order, or at
such other time to which the hearing may be postponed, upon satis­
factiry proof of personal service or publication of a copy of the order,
by affidavit or otherwise, if the consent in writing to such sale of all
parties interested is not filed, must proceed to hear the petition, and
hear and examine the allegations and proofs of the petitioners, and of
all persons interested in the estate who may oppose the application

Section 1'8. A..d•ini•trator, ete., ••Y be Ex­
a•lned: The executor, administrator, and witnesses may be ex­ 
amined on oath by either party, and process to compel them to attend­
and testify may be issued by the probate judge, in the same manner
and with like effect as in other cases.

Section 4177. 'I e Sell Beal E•tatf', w·hen: If it ap­
pears necessary to sell a part of the real estate. and that by a sale
thereof the residue of the estate, real or personal. or some specific
part thereof, would be greatly injured or diminished in value, or
subjected to expense, or rendered unprofitable, or that after any such
sale the residue would be so small in quantity or value, or would be
of such a character with reference to its future disposition among the
heirs or devisees, as clearly to render it for the best interests of alJ
concerned that the same should be sold. the court mav authorize the 
sale of the whole estate or of any part thereof. necessary and for th­
hest interest of all concerned.

Section 4178. Order or ~ale, when to be madt·: If
the court is satisfied. after a full hearing upon the petition an<l an
examination of the proofs and allegations of the parties interested
that a sale of the whole nr s, .me portion of the real estate is necessary
for anv nf the causes mentioned in this Chapter, or if such sale be
assented to by all the persons interested, an order must be made to
sell the whole, or as much and such parts of the real estate describe.I
in the petition as the court shall judge necessary or beneficial. 

Section 4179. What Order mu•t Contain. Public
or Private Sale: The order of the sale must describe the lands
to be sold and the terms of sale, which may be for cash or on
credit not exceeding one year, payable in gross or in installments,
and such kind of money, with interest, as the court may direct. The
land may be sold in one parcel or in subdivisions as the executor or
administrator shall judge most beneficial to the estate, unless the court
otherwise specially directs. 
lf it appears that any part of such real estate has been devised and
not charged in such devise with the payment of debts or legacies,
the court must order the remainder to be sold before that so devised.
Every such sale must be ordered to be made at public auction unless,
in the opinion of the court, it would benefit the estate to sell the
whole or some part of such real estate at private sale; the court may,
if the same is asked for in the petition, order or direct such real
estate or any part thereof, to be sold at either public or private sale
as the executor or administrator shall judge to be most beneficial for
the estate. 
If the executor or administrator neglects or refuses to make a s ile
under the order and as directed therein, he may be compelled to sell
by order of the court, made on motion after due notice, by any p,1r~y 
interested. 

Section 41SO. loterettted Peraon• may A.pply Cor
Order: 1 i the executor or administrator negiects to apply for an 
order of sale when it is necessary, any person interested in the estate
.nav mal:e application therefore, in the same manner as the executor 
or administrator, and notice thereof must be given to the executor or
administrator before the hearing. The petition of such applicant must
contain as many of the matters required in petitions of executors
and administrators as he can ascertain, and the decree of sale must fix
the period of time within which the executor or administrator must 
make the sale. 

Section 4181. To Deli'ver Uopy oC Order to Execu­
tor: L pon making the order mentioned in the last Section, a certi­ 
fied copy of the order of sale must be delivered by the court or the
clerk t1 > the executor or administrator, who is thereupon authorized
and required to se11 the real estate as directed.

Section 418~. ~otice ot·sale: \\.hen a sale is ordered,
and is t(I be made al public auction, notice uf the time and place oi 
sale must be posted in three of the most public places in the county
in which the land is situated. and published in a newspaper, if there
be one printed in the same county. but if none. then in such paper
as the court may direct, for thee weeks successively next before the
sale. The lands and tenements to be sold must he described with
common certainty in the notice. 

Section 4183. Time a11d Plac.-: Sales at puhlic auction
must be made in the county where the land is situated: but when
the land is situated in two or more counties, it mav he sold in either.
The sale must be made between the hours of nine o\lock in the morn·
on the day named in the notice of sale. unless the same is postponed 

Section 4184. Prbate Sale, how Made; Bid•, how
ReceiYed: When a sale of real estate is ordered to be made nt nri­
vate sale. notice of the same must be posted up in three of the most 
public places in the county in which the land is situated. and pnh­ 
lished in a newspaper. if there he one printed in the same county­
if none. then in such paper as the court may direct-for two weeks
successivelv next before the dav on or after which the sale is to he
made. in ,;hich the lands and tenements to be sold must he described
with common certainty. The notice must state a day on or after
which the sale will he made. and a place where offers or bids wilt he
received. The day last referred to must he at least fifteen days from
the first publication of notice. and the sale must not be made before
that day. hut must be made within six months thereafter. The bids
or offers must he in writing. and may be left at the place designated
in the notice. or delivered to the executor or administrator personally.
or may be filed in the office of the clerk of the probate court. 1 o
which the return of sale must he made. at any time after the first puhli­
cation of the notice. and before the making of the sale. If it is shown
that it will be for the hest interest of the estate, the court or judge 
mav, hv an order. shorten the time of notice. which shall not. how­
eve.r. be less than one week. amt may provide that the sale may he made 
on or after a <lay less than fifteen. hut not less than eight <lays from
the first publication of the notice. in which case the notice of sale anci
the sale may be made to correspond with such order. 

Section 41~3. 1'inety Per ~ent. A.pprai~ed Valot"
:rtlu•1 be Ofrered: No sale of real estate at private sale shall he 
confirmed by the court unless the sum offered is at least ninety per
cent of the appraised value thereof, nor unless such real estate h;::-; 
been appraised, within one year of the time of such sale. If it has
not been so appraised. or if the court is satisfied that the appraise ·
ment is too high or too low, appraisers must be appointed and they
must make an appraisement thereof in the same manner as in ,~a~e 
nf" an original appraisernent of an estate, This may he <lone at :111y
time hefore the sale or the confirmation thereof.

Section 4188. Purcha111e Money on ~ale on Credle, how"
!!!Jecored: The executor · r admim 
ntor must, when the sale
is made upon a credit. take the notes of the purchaser for the pur­
chase money, with a mortgage on the property to secure their pay­
ment. 

Section 4181'. 8ale may be Po,dponed: If at the time
appointed for the sale. the executor or administrator deems it for the
interest of all persons concerned therein that the same be postponed. 
he may postpone it from time to time. not exceeding in all three
months.

Section 418~. Notice oC Pot1tpen e ment: In case of a
postponement. notice thereof must he given. hy a public declaration.
at the time and place first appointed for the sale. and if the post­
ponement be for more than one day. further notice must be gfiven,
hy posting notices in three or more public places in the county where
the land is situated, or publishing the same, or both. as the time and
circumstances will admit. 

Section 4189. Rearing and Settina- A•lde when Re­
sale Ordered: The executor or administrator. after making any
sale of real estate. must make a return of his proceedings to the court.
which must be filed in the office of the clerk at any time subsequent
to the sale. A hearing upon the return of the proceedings may he
asked for in the return or hy petition subsequently. and thereupon
the court or judge must fix the day for the hearing. of which notice
of at least ten days must he given hy the clerk bv notices posted in
three public places in the countv. or hv nuhlication in a newspaper
or both. as the court or judge ~hall direct, and must briefly indicate
the land sold. the sum for which it was sold. and must refer ~., the 
1 eturn for further particulars. Unon the hearinz, the court must ex­
amine the return and witnesses in relation to the same. and if the 
1 -roceedings were unfair. or the sum hid disnronortionate to the va'ue.
and if it anoear that a sum exceeding- such hid at least ten ner cent.
exclusive of the expenses of a new sale. rnav he obtained, the court
mav vacate the sale and direct another to he had. of which notice
must be given. and the sale in all respects conducted as if no nre­
vious sale had taken nlace : if an offer of ten ner cent more in amount
than that named in the return he made to the court fn writing- bv ~
responsible person it is in the discretion of the court to accept such
offer and confirm the sale to such person. or to order a new sale.

Section 4198. Ob.i~~tiont!I~ wh e n, who may Fllf': When
return of the sale is made amt filed. any person interested in the e,· 
fate may file written objections to the confirmation thereof and may 
be heard thereon when the return is heard by the court or judge. and may produce witnesses in support of his objections.

Section 4191. When Order oa· Vonflrmatien lfladf':
If it appears to the court that the sale was legally made and fairly
conducted. and that the sum bid was not disproportionate to the value
of the property sold. and that a greater sum. as above specified, can­ 
not be obtained. or if the increased bid before mentioned be made
and accepted by the court. the court must make an order confirming the
sale. and directing conveyances to be executed. The sale. from that
time. is confirmed and valid. and a certified copy of the order confirm ing it and directing conveyances to he executed must he recorded in
the office of the recorder of the countv within which the land sold (S 
situated. If after the confirmation. the. purchaser neglects or refuses to
comply with the terms of sale. the court may. on motion of the executor 
or administrator. and after notice to the purchaser. order a re-sale
to be made of the pronertv. If the amount realized on such re-sale
does not cover the hid and the exoenses of previous sale. such pur­
chaser is liable for the deficiency to the estate. 

Section 4199. Cen.-eyan~n: Conveyances must thereupon
he executed to the purchaser by the executor or administrator. and
they must refer to the orders of the probate court authorizing- and
confirming the sale of the property of the estate. and directing con­
vevances thereof to he executed. and to the record of the order of
c-n~firmation in the office of the countv recorder, either bv the date
nf such recording. or hv the <fate. volume. and paze of the record.
and such reference shall have the same effect as if the orders were,
at large. inserted in the convevance. Conveyances so made convey
all the right. title. interest. and estate of the decedent, in the nrern­
ises, at the time of his death: if nrior to the sale. by operation of law
or otherwise, the estate has acnuired any right. title. or interest in the
premises. other than. or in addition to. that of the decedent at the
time of his death. such right. title. or interest also passes by such con- 
veyances,

Section 4198. Order or Confirmation, what to State: 
Before any order is entered confirming the sale, it must be proved to
the satisfaction of the court that notice was given of the sale as
prescribed. and the order nf confirmation must show that such proof
was made. 

Section 4194. Payment oC Debt11 Provided ror by
Wiii: If the testator makes provisions by his will, or designates
the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the ex­
penses of administration. or family expenses. they must be paid ac­
cording to such provision or designation. out of the estate thus ap­ 
propriated, so far as the same is sufficient.

Section 4193. 8alet1 WUbout Order: When property ;s 
directed by the will to be sold. or authority is given in the will to
sell property, the executor may sell any property of the esstate with­
out order of the court. and at either public or private sale, and with
or without notice, as the executor mav determine: hut the executor must
make return of such sales as in other cases: and if directions are given
in the will as to the mode of selling. or the particular property to
he sold, such directions must he observed. In either case. no title
passes unless the sale he confirmed by the court. 

Section 4198. Wb_.n Provision b~· fl1ill ln111dllcient: 
If the provision made hy the will. or the estate aonropriated therefore.
is insufficient to pay the debts. expenses of administration. and fam­
ily expenses. that portion of the estate not devised or disposed of hv 
the will. if any. must he appropriated and disposed of for that purpose,
according- to the nrovisions of this Chapter.

Section 419'7. Estate 8obj~ct to Debt111: The estate.
real and personal. given by will to legatees or devisees, is liable for 
the debts, expenses of administration, and family expenses, in proportion to the value or amount of the several devisees or legacies. but
specific devisees or legacies are exempt from liability if it appears to
the court necessary to carry into effect the intention of the testator.
and there is other sufficient estate.

Section 4198. Contribution Amen« Legatees: When
an estate given by will has been sold for the payment of debts or ex­
penses. all the devisees and legatees must contribute according to their
respective interests to the devisee or legatee whose devise or legacy has
been taken therefore. and the probate court. when distribution is made.
made. must. by decree for that purpose. settle the amount of the sev­
eral liabilities. and decree the amount each person shall contribute.
and reserve the same from their distributive shares respectively, for
the purpose of paying such contribution. 

Section 99. Contrart ror P11r~ha•e oC Land•, Sold,
ho•: If a decedent. at the time of his death. was possessed of "-\
contract for the purchase of lands. his interest in such land and un­
der such contracts may be sold on the application of his executor or
administer in the same manner as ·if he had <lied seized of such land,
and the same proceedings may he had for that purpose as are pre­
scribed in this Chapter for the sale of lands of which he died seized.
except as hereinafter provided.

Section 900. Coodltionl!I oC Sale: The sale must be
made subject to all payments that may thereafter become due on such
contracts. and if there are anv such. the sale must not be confirmed 
by the probate judge until the purchasers execute a bond to the ex­
ecutor or administrator. for the benefit and indemnity of himself and
of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent in the lands so
contracted for. in double the whole amount of payments thereafter t;-,
become due on such contract. with such sureties as the probate judge
shall approve. 

Section 4901. Purcha•er to GiYe Bond: The bond
must be conditioned that the purchaser will make all payments for
such land that shall become due after the date of the sale. and will
fullv indemnifv the executor or administrator. and the persons S') 
entitled against all demands. costs. charges and expenses, by reason
of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract. 

Section 4909. Esecutor to A•tdp Centra~t: Upon
the confirmation of the sale. the executor or administrator must exe­
cute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract which vests in
the purchaser. his heirs and assigns, all the right. title and interest 
qf ihe estate, 9T of the persons entitled to the interest of the decedent, 
in the lands sold at the time of the sale, and the purchaser has the
same rights and remedies against the vender of such land as the
decedent would have had if he were living. 

Section 4~03. Sain ot· Land Subject to 1'1or1&•a~:
When any sale is made hy an executor or administrator. pursuant to
the provisions of this Chapter. of ]ands subject to any mortgage or
other lien, which is a valid claim against the estate of the decedent.
and has been presented and allowed, the purchase money must be
applied. after paying· the necessary expenses of the sale. first to the
payment and satisfaction of the mortgage or lien. and the residue,
if any, in due course of administration. The application of the pur­
chase money to the satisfaction of the mortgage or lien must be made
without delay: and the land is subject to such mortgage or lien until
the purchase money has been actually so applied. No claim against
any estate which has been presented and allowed is affected by the
statute of limitations, pending the proceedings for settlement of the 
estate. ·
The purchase money. or so much thereof as may be sufficient to 
pay such mortgage or lien. with interest, and any lawful costs and
charges thereon. may he paid into the probate court to be received
hy the clerk thereof. whereupon the mortgage or lien upon the land
must cease. and the purchase money must he paid over by the clerk
of the court without delay. in payment of the expenses of the sale.
and a satisfaction of the debt. to secure which the mortgage or other
lien was taken. and the surplus. if any. at once returned to the exe­
cutor or administrator unless for good cause shown, after notice to
the executor or administrator, the court otherwise directs. 

Section 4~04. Holder er Mortgage Lien may P11r­ 
ch11tJe LandtJ: .\t any sale under order of the probate court of
lands upon which there is a mortgage or lien. the holder thereof may
hecome the purchaser. and his receipt for the amount due him from
the proceeds of the sale is a payment protanta. If the amount for
which he purchased the property is insufficient to defray the expenses
and discharge his mortgage or lien. he must pay to the court or the
clerk thereof. an amount sufficient to pay such expenses. 

Section 4~0:i. Limitation ot· ~ction8 ror Vaca1ina­
Sal~: No action for the recovery of any estate sold hy an executor 
or administrator under the provisions of this Chapter. can be main­
tained by any heir or other person claiming under the decedent. un less it be commenced within three years next after the sale. .\n ac­
tion to set aside the sale may be instituted and maintained at any
time within three years from the discovery of the fraud. or other
grounds upon which the action is based.

Section 49H. Precf'dln« 8edion net to Apply, whf'n: 
The preceding section shall not apply to minors or others under any
legal disability. to sue at the time when right of action first accrues :
hut a11 such persons mav .comrnence an action at any time within
three years after the removal of the disability. 

Section 4907. Admlni•trator and E~«a~utor l.i•bl«a
f9or Bl•conduct: J f there is any neglect or misconduct in the
proceedings of the executor in relation to any sale. by which any per­
son interested in the estate suffers damages. the party aggrieved
may recover the same in an action upon the bond of the executor or
administrator. or otherwise. 

Section 4908. Fraudulf'nf Sain: Anv executor or ad­
ministrator who fraudulentlv sells anv real estate of a decedent con­ 
trary to or otherwise than ·un<ler the provisions of this Chapter, is
liable in double the value of the land sold. as liquidated damages, to 
he recovered in an action hy the person having an estate or inherit­
ance therein. 

Section 4909. Account o, Male to be Returned: 
When a sale has been made bv an executor or administrator of anv
property of the estate. real and personal. he must return to the probate
court, at its next term thereafter. an account of sales. verified by his
affidavit. If he neglects to make such return. he may be punished 
hy attachment. or his letters may he revoked. one day's notice hav­
ing been first given him to appear and show cause why such attach­
ment should not issue. or such revocation should not be made. 

Section 4910. E-see'.'uton, ete., not to b«a Pnrcha.en: 
No executor or administrator must. directly or indirectly. purchase
any property of the estate he represents. nor must he be interested 
in any sale.

Section 4~1 I. Executor to Take P••n•ion of' Entire
Eetate: The executor or administrator must take into possession
all the estate of the decedent. real and personal. and collect all debts
due to the decedent or to the estate. For the purpose of bringing
suits to quiet title. or for partition of such estate. the possession of
the executors or administrators is the possession of the heirs or
devisees; such possession hy the heirs or devisees is subject, however.
to the possession of the executor or administrator. for the purpose of
administration. as provided in this Title. 

Section 4~19. t:xe~11fon may Sue and IN- Sued: 
. vctions for the recovery of any property. real or personal, or for the
posses sion thereof. and all actions founded upon contracts, may bi!
maintained by and against executors and administrators, in all cases
in which the same might have been maintained by or against their
respec tive testators or intestates. 

Section 4g1a. Liability ~·· EI«utor, etc., Cor vo,te: 
\Vhen a judgment is recovered, with costs, against any executor or
administrator, he shall be individually liable for such costs, but they
must be allowed him in his administration accounts, unless it appears
that the suit or proceedings in which the costs were taxed was prose­
cuted or defended without just cause. 

Section 4g14. May ftailataio A.ctioa• ,or Wa•te: 
Executors and administrators may maintain actions against any per­
son who has wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted
to his own use, the goods of their testator or intestate, in his lifetime.
They may also maintain actions for trespass committed on the real
estate of the decedent in his Ii fetime.

Section 4913. May be Sued t'or Watte, etc.: Any per­
son or his personal representatives may maintain an action against
the executor or adrninstrator of any testator or intestate who in his
lfetirne has wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted
to his own use, the goods or chattels of any such person, or committed
any trespass on the real estate of such person. 

Section 4g1e. Murvivinl' Part11er to 8ettl~ ·Bu•ine ..
and Bender A.ccouot: \Vhen a partnership exists between
the decedent, at the time of his death, and any other person, the
surviving partner has the right to continue in possession of the part­
nership, and to settle its business, but the interest of the decedent frj 
the partnershp must be included in the inventory, and be appraised
as other property. The surviving partner must settle the affairs of
the partnership without delay, and account with the executor or ad­
ministrator, and pay over such balances as may from time to time
be payable to him. in right of the decedent. Upon the application oi
the executor or administrator, the probate judge may, whenever i;
appears necessary, order the surviving partner to render an accounr,
and in case of neglect or refusal may, after notice, compel it by at­
tachment; and the executor or administrator man maintain against
him any action which the decedent could have maintained. 

Section 4~17. A.ctioa• oa Bond of' Executor, etc.: An
administrator may, in his own name, for the use and benefit of all
parties interested in the estate, maintain actions on the bond of an
executor, or of any former admnistrator of the same estate

Section 4~1S. What Executon are aot Parlin to 
A..ctioo: In actions by or against executors, it is not necessary to 
join those as parties to whom letters were issued, but who have not
qualified. 

Section 4~19. May Compound: Wheneved a debtor of a
decedent is unable to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator.
with the approbation of the probate court or judge, may compound
with him, and give him a discharge upon receiving a fair and just
dividend of his effects. A compromise may also be authorized when
it appears to be just, and for the best interest of the estate.

Section 4~go. Property Fraudulently Di•powed ot· by
're•later: When there is a deficiency of assets in the hands of an
executor or administrator, and when the decedent, in his lifetime,
has conveyed any real estate, or any rights or interests therein,
with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid any right, debt, or 
duty of any person, or so conveyed such estate that by law the deeds
or conveyances are void as against creditors, the executor or adminis­
trator must commence and prosecute to final judgment any proper ac­
tion for the recovery of the same; and may recover for the benefit
of the creditors all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed; and
may also, for the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods,
chattels, rights or credits which have been so conveyed by the de­
cedent in his lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of such 
fraudulent conveyance. 

Section 4g"1. When Exec1dor Co Sue: No executor or
administrator is bound to sue for such estate as mentioned in the pre­
ceding section, for the benefit of the creditors, unless on application
of creditors, who must pay such part of the costs and expenses of the
suit or give such security to the executor or administrator therefore,
as the probate judge shall direct. 

Section 499~. Di•P••ition ol E•1ate RecoYered: AJl 
real estate so recovered must be sold for the payment of debts in the
same manner as if the decedent had died seized therof, upon ob­ 
taining an order therefore from the probate court; and the proceeds of
all goods, chattels, rights, and credits so recovered must be appro­
priated in payment of the debts of the decedent in the same manner
as other property in the hands of the executor or administrator. 

Section 4993. t"uodt1 Pend ins Settlement: Pending the
settlement of any estate, on the petition of any party interested
therein, and upon good cause shown therefore, the court may order 
any monies in the hands of the executors or administrators to be in­
vested for the benefit of the estate in securities of the United States
or of this state. Such order can only he made after publication of
notice of the petition in some newspaper to be designated by the
court or judge thereof. 

Section 4g~4. Conapletion 01· Contract• tor 8ale oC
Real E11tate: \\"hen a person who is hound by contract in writ­
ing to com·ey any real estate. dies before making the conveyance,
where such decedent. if living, might be compelled to make such
conveyance, the probate court may make a decree authorizing and
directing his executor or administrator to convey such real estate to
the person entitled thereto. 

Section 49it3. Petition for Exee11tor to 1'1ake Con1'eyance: On the presentatir m of a verified petition by any person
claiming to he entitled to such conveyance from an executor or ad­
ministrator. setting forth the facts upon which the claim is predi- 
cated, the probate court must appoint a time and place for hearing
the petition, at a regular term of the court, and must order notice
thereof to be published at least four successive weeks before

Section 49~8. lntere.ted Partiea, may Uonte•t: At
the time and place appointed for the hearing, or at such other time
to which the same may be postponed upon satisfactory proof, by
affidavit or otherwise, of the due publication of the notice, the court
must proceed to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate
may appear and contest such petition, by filing their objections if,
writing, and the court may examine on oath, the petitioner and .u 
who may be produced before him for that purpose. 

Section 4~~7. Conveyancn, when Ordered: If,· after 
a full hearing upon the petition and objections, and examination or 
the facts and circumstances of the claim, the court is satisfied that
the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the real estate described
in the petition, a decree authorizing and directing the executor or
administrator to execute a conveyance thereof to the petitioner must
he made, entered on the minutes of the court, and recorded. 

Section 49~8. .Execution oC Conveyance, ese., how·
Enforced: The executor or administrator must execute the con­
veyance according to the directions of the decree, a certified copy oi,
whi. h must be recorded with the deed in the office of the recorder of
the county where the land lies, and is prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the proceeding, and of the authority of the executor
or administrator to make the conveyance. 

Section 4~~9. Right• oC Petitioner to EaCorce «)on·
tra~t: If, upon hearing in the probate court, as hereinbefore pro­
vided, the right of the petitioner to have a specific performance oi
the contract is found to be doubtful, the court must dismiss the peti­
tion without prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may, at
any time within six months thereafter, proceed, in the district court,
to en force a specific performance thereof. 

Section 4~30. Efrect oC Uonveyancet1: Every convey­
ance made in pursuance of a decree of the probate court, as provided 
in this chapter, shall pass the title to the estate contracted for a ...
folly as if the contracting party himself was still living and executed
the conveyance. 

Section 4931. Etrect oC Recordias Uopy ot· Decree: 
.-\ copy of the decree for a conveyance made by the probate court, 
and duly certified and recorded in the office of the recorder of the
county where the lands lie, gives the person entitled to the convey­ 
ance a right to the possession of the lands contracted for, and to hold
the same according to the terms of the intended conveyance, in like
manner as if they had been conveyed in pursuance of the decree.

Section 4~8~. RecordiDI' Decree, etc.: The recording
of any decree, as provided in the preceding section, shall not preven;
the court making the decree from enforcing the same by other process. 

Section 4~83. Conveyance where Party Eatitled to
i• Dead: If the person entitled to the conveyance dies before 
the commencement of the proceedings therefore under this chapter,
or before the completion of the conveyance, any person entitled to
succeed to his rights in the contract, or the executor or administrator
of such decedent may for the benefit of the person· so entitled, com­
mence such proceedings, or prosecute any already commenced, and
the conveyance must be so made as to vest the estate in the person
entitled to it, or in the executor or administrator, for their benefit.

Section 4~34. Decree •av Direct ~urreoder oC Po•­
.e.•lon: The decree provided io; in this Chapter may direct the
possession of the property therein described to be surrendered to the
person entitled thereto, upon his producing the deed and a certified
copy of the decree, when by the terms of the contract, possession is to
he surrendered. 

Section 4"U. When Executor or A.dmioi•trater
Penooally Liable: No executor or administrator is chargeable
upon any special promise to answer damages or to pay the debts of
the testator of intestate out of his own estate, unless the agreement
for that purpose, or some memorandum or note thereof, is in writing
and signed by such executor or administrator, or by some other per·
son by him thereunto specially authorized. 

Section 4g3a. Executor Charged with all E•tate: 
Every executor and administrator is chargeable in his account with
the whole of the estate of the decedent which may come into his
possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in the inven­ 
tory, except as provided in the following sections, and with all the
interest, profit, and income of the estate.

Section 1ga7. Nol to Profit er Lo•e by E•tate: He 
shall not make profit by the increase, nor suffer loss by the de­
crease. or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the estate.
He must account for the excess when he sells any part of the estate
for more than the appraisernent, and if any is sold for less than the
appraisement. he is not responsible for the loss, if the sale has been
justly made.

Section 4238. Uncollected Debts Without Fault:
\" o executor or administrator is accountable for any debts due to the
decedent. if it appears that they remain uncollected without his fault.

Section 4"39. ~ot to Pureha111~ ClainH A.gaio11t
E•tate: ~o administrator or executor shall purchase any claim 
against the estate he represents : and if he pays any c1aim for any less 
than its nominal value he is only entitled to charge m his account
the amount he actually paid. 

Section 4940. Uompen•a1iea of Es.ecutor, etc: He 
shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care, management,
and settlement of the estate, an<l for his services such fees as provided
in this chapter; but when the decedent by his will, makes some
other provision for the compensation of his executor, that shall be a
full compensation for his services, unless, by a written instrument,
filed in the probate court, he renounce all claim for compensation
provided by the will.

Section 4g41. Eiecuter'• aad A.dmlni•tra&or'• Com' 
•iHion•: When no compensation is provided by the will, or the
executor renounces all claim thereto, he must be allowed comm is sions upon the amount of the estate accounted for by him, as follows:
For the first thousand dollars, at the rate of seven per cent; for all
above that sum and not exceeding ten thousand dollars, at the rate
of five per cent; for all above that sum. at the rate of four per cent;
and the same commission must be allowed administrators. In all
cases, such further allowance may be made as the probate judge may
deem just and reasonable, for any extraordinary service. The total
amount of such a11owance must not excee 1 the amount of comrnis­
sions allowed by this section. 

Section 4~4g. To Render an E~hibU of Receip1s,
et~: At the third term of the court after his appointment. and 
thereafter at any time when required hy the court. either upon its 
own motion or upon the application of any person interested in the
estate. the executor or administrate ,r must render. for the informa- ·
tion of the court. an exhibit under oath. showing the amount of
money received and expended hy him. the amount of all claims pre 
sented against the estate and the names of the claimants. and all 
, .ther matters necessary tc, show the condition of its affairs.

Section 4243. Ci&atioo to A.ccouut at &bird Ter•: 
If the executor or administrator fails to render an exhibit at the third
term of the court, the judge of the probate court must cause a cita­ 
. tion to be issued requiring him to appear and render it. 

Section 4244· Petition f'er Cita1ioa: Any person inter­
ested in the estate may, at any time before the final settlement of 
accounts, present his petition to the probate judge, praying that the
executor or administrator be required to appear and render such ex­
hibit, setting forth the facts showing that it is necessary and proper
that such an exhibit should be made. 

Section 1g,1:1. Uitatioa t• A.ccouat on A.pplicatlon: 
If the judge is satisfied, either from the oath of the applicant or
from any other testimony offered, that the facts alleged are true,
and considers the showing of the applicant sufficient, he must direct
a citation to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring him
to appear at some day to be named in the citation, which must be 
during a term of the court, and render an exhibit as prayed for.

Section 4~48. Objectio•• 1o .&ccouot, who may File: 
When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or administrator, any
person interested may appear and, by objections in writing, contest
any account or statement therein contained. The court may ex­
amine the executor or administrator, and if he has been guilty of
neglect, or has wasted, embezzled, or mismanaged the estate, his let­ 
ters must be revoked. 

Section 4~47. A.ttachmeot tor not Obeying Uitatioa: 
If any executor or administrator neglects or refuses to appear and
render an exhibit, after having been duly cited, an attachment may
he issued against him and such exhibit enforced, or his letters may
he revoked, in the discretion of the court. 

Section 4"48. Bender A.ccount• at Expiration et·
Term: \ Vithin thirty <lays after the expiration of the time men- 
• t ioned in the notice to creditors within which claims must be ex­
hibited. every executor or administrator must render a full account
and report of his administration. J f he fails to present his account, 
the court or judge must compel the rendering of the account by attach· 
meut, and any person interested in the estate may apply for and ob­
tain an attachment; hut no attachment must issue unless a citation
has been first issued. served. and returned. requiring the executor or 
administrator to appear and show cause why an attachment should
not issue. Every account must exhibit all debts which have been pre­
sented and allowed during the period embraced in the account. 

Section 4949. E:1.ec11tor to A..ccount A..tttir Bi11 A11thorlty ReTeked: When the authority of an executor or admin­
istrator ceases or is revoked for any reason. he may be cited to ac­
count before the probate court at the instance of the person succeed­
ing to the administration of the same estate in like manner as he 
might have been cited hy any person interested in the estate during:
the time he was executor or administrator. 

Section 49:10. Nea-lecC, ReYoking A u1herity oC Ex­
ttuter: T f the executor or administrator resides nut of the conntv,
or absconds, or conceals himself, so that the citation cannot hr ne~·
sonally served. and neglects to render an account within thirty days
after the time above nrescribed. or if he nezlects to render an ac­
count within thirty <lays after being committed where the attach­
ment has been executed. his letters must be revoked. 

Section 4931. To Produce and File 'Vo11eht-n: In ren
dering his account. the executor or administrator must prod-v= and
file vouchers for all charzes, debts, claims. and expenses which he
has naid, which must remain in the court: and he mav be examined o,,
oath touching such nayments, and also touching- anv nronertv and
effects of the decedent, and the disposition thereof. When anv
voucher is renuired for other nurnoses, it rnav he withdrawn on leav­
inz a certified conv on file: if a voucher is lost. or for other {?'oo<l rea son cannot he nroduced on the settlement. the payment may he prove, t 
hy the oath of anv competent witness.

Section 49tHI. Vo11.-h~rt1 ror It~m•. •~•• than Twrnty
Dollnn: On the settlement of his account he rnav he allowed anv 
item of expenditure. not exceedinz twentv dollars." for which no
YOUCher is nroduced, if '-UCP item he SUOT>Orted hv his OWn uncontra­
dieted oath nositive to the fact of nayrnent. snecifvinz when. where. 
nnd to whom it was made: but such allowances in the whole must
not exceed five hundred dollars ag-ainst any one estate. 

Section 4933. Day of'8ettlementw, 'Noti~f": When any 
account is rendered for settlement, the court or judge must appoi nt 
a day for the settlement thereof; the clerk must thereupon give no­
tice thereof, by causing notices tc > be posted in at least three public
places in the county, setting forth the name of the estate, the exe­
cutor or administrator, and the day appointed for the settlement of
the account, which must be on some day of a term of the court. The
court or probate judge may order such further notice to be given as 
may be proper.

Section 4934. Final ~f'tflem~nt and Distribution: 
If the account mentioned in the preceding section be for a final set­
tlement. and a petition for the final distribution of the estate be filed
with said account. the notice of the settlement must state those facts,
which notice must be given by posting or publication, as the court
may direct. and for such time as may be ordered. On the settle.
ment of said account. distribution and partition of the estate to all
entitled thereto may be immediately had without further notice o .- 
proceedings. 

Section 4933. lnterf't11ff'd Party may Fllf' Exception•
On the <lay appointed. or any subsequent day to which the hearing 
may he postponed hy the court. any person interested in the estate
may appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account and con­
test the same.

Section 4936. Rein IDAf Contf'l!lt all Matten. Rear­ 
i•s: All matters including allowed claims not passed upon on the
settlement .of any former account. or on rendering an exhibit. or on
making a decree of sale. may he contested hy the heirs for cause
shown. The hearing- and allegations of the respective parties may
he postponed from time to time. when necessary. and the court may
appoint one or more referees to examine the accounts and make re. port thereon. suhiect to confirmation: and may allow a reasonable
compensation to the referees. to he paid out of the estate of the de­ 
cedent. 

Section 4937. Settlement or tl.cco11nt11 to be Con­ 
clol!liTe: The settlement of the account and the allowance thereof
hv the court. or upon anneal. is conclusive ag-ainst all persons in am·
wav interested in the estate. savinz, however, to all persons laborinrr
under anv leg-al disabilitv, their ~iP."hts to- proceed ag-ainst the exe­
cutor or ~d~inistrator. either individuallv or unon his bond, within
two vears after their resnective <lisahilities cease: and in anv action
brought by any such nerson, the allowance and settlement of the
account is prirna facie evidence of its correctness: 

Section 4'1:IS. Proof' or Notice or Settlement: The ac­
count must not be allowed by the court until it is first proved tha: 
notice has been given as required by this chapter. and the decree
must show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the court!
and is conclusive evidence of the fact. 

Section 4939. 8rder In Whit-b Debt• to M Paid: 
The debts of the estate must be paid in the following order: 
r. Funeral expenses: 
2. The expenses of the last sickness.
3. Debts having preference hy the laws of the United States:
4. Judgments rendered against the decedent in his lifetime. amt 
mortgages in the order of their date;
5. All other demands against the estate. 

Section 4'188. Whf'n Property lnwofRcient to Pa,·
ftorqa,r;e: The preference given in the preceding section to ,1 
mortgage only extends to the proceeds of the property mortgaged. 
J f the proceeds of such property is insufficient to pay the mortgage.
the part remaining unsatisfied must he classed with the· other <le­
mands against the estate

Section 4'181. Estate ln1mfflcle11t, DiYidf'nd Paid: If
the estate is insufficient to nav all the debts nf anv one class. each 
creditor must he paid a dividen<l in proportion to his claim: and no
creditor of any one class shall receive any payment until all those of
the preceding class are fully paid. 

Section 4'189. Funeral E:1pen•et1: La•t Slcknet1t1; Fam­
ily ~llowan~f': The executor or administrator. as soon as he
has sufficient funds in his hands. must pav the funeral expenses and
the expenses of the last sickness. and the allowance made to the
farnilv of the decedent. He rnav retain in his hands the necessarv
exnenses of the administration. b{1t he is not obliged to pay any othe'.r
debt or any legacy until. as prescribed in this chapter. the payment
has been ordered by the court. 

Section 4g93. Order for Payment of Debt; Dit11charge ot Exe~11tor: Upon the settlement of the accounts of the
executor or administrator. as required in this chapter. the court must 
make ~n order for the pa!ment of the debts. as the circumstances of 
the estate require. If there is not sufficient funds in the hands of
the executor or administrator. the court must specify in the decree
the sum to be paid to each creditor. If the whole property or the
estate be exhausted by such payment or distribution, such account
may be considered as a final account. and the executor or administrator
is entitled to discharge. on producing and filing the necessary
vouchers and proofs showing that such payments have been made. and
that he has fully complied with the decree of the court.

Section 4l84. Prorision ror Di8p11ted and Uon•in­
l'ent Ulalm•: T f there is any claim not due. or any contingent or
disputed claim against the estate. the amount thereof. or such part
of the same as the holder would he entitled to if the claim were due.
established. or absolute. must he paid into the court. and there
remain. to be paid over to the partv when he becomes entitled
thereto: or. if he fails to establish his ·claim. to he paid over or <li~­ 
tributed as the circumstances of the estate require. Tf any creditor
whose claim has heen allowed. hut is not yet due. appears ~tic~ 
assents to a reduction therefrom of the legal interest for the time the
claim has yet to run. he is entitled to he paid accordingly. Tbe
payments provided for in this section are not to be made when the
estate is insolvent. unless a pro rata distribution is ordered. 

Section 498:J. Payment Dffreed. Executor Per•on­
a lly Liable to Uredltorf!I: "Then a decree is made by the nro­
hate court for the navment of creditors. the executor or adminis­
trator is personally liable to each creditor for his allowed claim. or
the dividend thereon. and execution mav he issued on such decree.
as upon a judgment in the district court." in favor of each creditor
and the same nroceedinz mav he had under such execution as if it
had been issued from the district court. The executor or administrator
is liable therefore on his bond, to each creditor. 

Section 4gaa. ~laim11 not lnclud_.d In Ordt-r: Whe»
the accounts of the administrator or executor have been settled. :rn<! 
an order made for the navment of debts and distribution of the
estate. no creditor whose claim was not included in the order for O<IY­ 
ment has anv rizht to call noon the creditors who have heen rrrid.
or noon the heirs. devisees, or lezatees to contribute to the navment 
of his claim. hut if the executor or ~<lministrntor has failed to zive
the notice to the creditors. · a" nrescribed hv this title. such cred­
itor rnav recover on the bond of the executor or administrator, the
amount ·of his claim. or such n:irt thereof as he would have been entitled to had it been allowed. This section shall not annlv to anv
creditor whose claim was not due ten months before the <laY of' settle­
ment. or whose claim wo s contingen! anrl <lfrl not become absolute ten 
months before such clay; 

Section 4987. Order for Payment oC Legaciet!i: If
the whole of the debts have heen paid by the first distribution. the
court must direct the payment of legacies and the distribution of
the estate among the heirs. legatees. or other persons entitled. :,_s
provided in the next chapter; but if there be debts remaining unpaid,
or if. for other reasons. the estate be not in a proper condition to be
closed, the court must give such extension of time as may be reason­ 
able for a final settlement of the estate. 

Section 4988. Final Aeceont, When te be Made: 
At the time designated in the last section, or sooner. if within that
time a11 the property of the estate has been sold. or there are suffi­
cient funds in his hands for the payment of alt the debts due by the
estate. and the estate be in a proper condition to be closed. the exe­
cutor or administrator must render a final account and pray a settle­
ment of his administration.

Section 4989. Nqlect to Render Final A~coont: If
he neglects to render his account. the same proceedings may be had 
as prescribed in this chapter in regard to the first account to be ren­
dered by him: and all the provisions of this chapter relative tn. the
last mentioned account. and the notice and settlement thereof. apply
to his account presented for final settlement. 

Section 4970. Pay•ent or Lq-a~ie• IJpon GiYin«
Bend•: A.t any time after the lapse of four months from the issu­
ing of letters testamentary or of administration, any heir. devisee.
or legatee may present his petition to the court for the legacy or
share of the estate to which he is entitled. to be given to him upon
his giving bonds. with security. for the payment of his proportion of
the debts of the estate. 

Section 4971. :Notice oC 1' ppli~ation ,or l.1q-acie-•: 
Notice of the application must be given to the executor or adminis­
trator personally, and to alt persons interested in the estate. in the
same manner that notice is required to be given of the settlement of
the account of an executor or administrator.

Section 4979. Eu~cuter, ete., may Resi•t Appll<-afioa: 
The executor or administrator or any person interested in the estate.
may appear at the time named and resist the application, or any
other heir. devisee. or legatee. and make a similar application for
himself. 

Section 4973. Decree to RN1oire Ro•d. Partltlo•
1'1ade when 'N ecet111ary. CMt•: If at the hearing it appears 
that the estate is hut little indebted and that the share of the party
applying may he allowed to him without loss to the creditors of the
estate. the court must make an order in conformity with the prayer
of the applicant. requiring: 
T. Each heir. legatee. or devisee obtaining such order before re­
ceiving his share or any portion thereof. to execute and deliver to
the executor or administrator a bond. in such sum as ... shall be desig­
nated hv the probate judge, with sureties to he approved by the
judge. payable to the executor or administrator. and conditioned for
the payment. whenever required. of his proportion of the debts due
from the estate. not exceeding- the value or amount of the legacy or 
proportion of the estate to which he is entitled; 
2. The executor or administrator to deliver to the heir, legatee
or devisee the whole portion of the estate to which he may be enti­
tled, or only a part thereof, designating it. If in the execution of
the order. a partition is necessary between two or more of the par­
ties interested. it must be made in the manner hereinafter prescribed.
The costs of these proceedings shall be paid by the applicant, or t f
there be more than one, to be apportioned equally amongst them. 

Section 4974. Order Cor Payment or Bond: When
any bond has been executed and delivered under the provisions of 
the preceding Section. and it is necessary for the settlement of the
estate to require the payment of any part of the money thereby se­
cured, the executor or administrator must petition the court for an
order requiring the payment and have a citation issued and served
on the party bound. requiring him to appear and show cause why the
order should not be made. At the hearing. the court, if satisfied of
the necessity of such payment. must make an order accordingly.
designating the amount and giving a time within which it must be
paid. If the money is not paid within the the time allowed. an action
may be maintained by the executor or administrator on the bond. 

Section 4973. Di•trlbotlo•, how 1'1ade and to whom: 
Upon the final settlement of the accounts of the executor or admin­
istrator. or at any subsequent time, upon the application of the exe­
cutor or administrator. or of any heir. legatee or devisee
the court must proceed to distribute the residue of the estate
in the hands of the executor or administrator, if any. among the pe= 
sons who by law are entitled thereto: and if the decedent has left a
surviving child and the issue of other children. and any of them, be­
fore the close of administration. have died while under age and not
having been married. no administration on such deceased child's
estate is necessary. but all the estate which such deceased child was
entitled to by inheritance. must. without administration. be dis­
trihuted to the other heirs at law. A statement of any receipts and
disbursements of the executor or administrator. since the rencfttion
of his final accounts, must be reported and filed at the time of mak­
ing such distribution. and a settlement thereof. together with an esti-­
mate of the expenses of closing- the estate. must be made by the court
and included in the order or decree; or the court or judge may order
notice of the settlement of such supplementary account. and refer the
same as in other cases of the settlement of accounts. 

Section 4'178. What the Decree 1'1.u•t Contain: In 
the order or decree the court must name the persons and the pro­
portions or parts to which each shall be entitled. and such persons
may demand and sue for. and recover their respective shares from the
executor or administrator. or any person having the same in posses­
sion. Such order or decree is conclusive as to the rights of heirs, leg­
atees or devisees, subject only to be reversed. set aside. or modified
on appeal. 

Section 4'177. Dlt1tributton when De~edeat wat11
not a Retddent: Upon application for distribution, after final
settlement of the accounts of administration. if the decedent was a
non-resident of this State. leaving a will which has been duly
proved or allowed in the State of his residence. and an authenticated
copy thereof. has been admitted to probate in this State. and it is
uecessary, in order that the estate or any part thereof may be dis­ 
t ributed according to the will. that the estate in this State shou1d be
delivered to the executor or administrator in the State or place of his
residence, the court rnav order such deliverv to be made. and if neces­
sary. order a sale of the real estate. anc1 a like deliverey of the pro­
( eeds. The deliverev, in accordance with the order of the court. is 't 
full discharge of the. executor or administrator with the will annexed.
in t1'is State. in relation to all property embraced in such order
which. unless reversed on appeal. binds and concludes all parties in
interest. Sales nf real estate ordered bv virtue of this Section. must
he made in the same manner as other sales of real estate of decedents
hy order 0f the probate court. 

Section 4~78. Decfte to be made After Notict-: The
order or decree may be made on the petition of the executor or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate. Notice of the
aJlplication must be given by posting or publication, as the cour,
may direct, and for such time as may be ordered. If partition be
applied for as provided in this Chapter, the decree of distributior:.
shall not divest the court of jurisdiction to order partition, unless the
estate is finally closed.

Section 4'179. No Dl•tribution Ordered till Taie•
Paid: Before any decree of distribution of an estate is made, the
probate court must be satisfied, by the oath of the executor or ad­
ministrator, or otherwise, that all State, county and municipal taxes.
legally levied upon personal property of the estate, have been fully
paid. 

Section 4280. 
questions as to advancements made, or alleged to have been made, 
by the decedent, to his heirs, may be heard and determined by the
· probate court, and must he specified in the decree assigning and distrib­ 
uting the estate ; and the final judgment, or decree of the probate court,
or, in case of appeal, of the district or supreme court, is binding on all
parties interested in the estate. 

Section 4gs1. DiepNitiea ot· LICe E•tate on Own­
er'• Death: If any person has died. or shall hereafter die, who at 
foe time of his death was the owner of a life estate which terminates 
hy reason of the death of such person, any person interested in
foe property, or in the title thereto, in which such life estate was held,
may file in the probate court of the county in which the property
is situated his verified petition. setting forth such facts, and there­
upon, and after such notice, hy publication or otherwise, as the court
may order, the court shall hear such petition and the evidence offered
in support thereof. and if, upon such hearing, it shall appear that such
life estate of such deceased person absolutely terminated by reason of
his death. the court shall make a decree to that effect, and thereupon
a certified copy of such decree may be recorded in the office of the comi­ 
ty recorder and thereafter shall have the same effect as a final decree of
distribution so recorded. 

Sec1ion 498". Etttate in Common. Comml88iont-n: 
\Vhen the estate, real or personal. assigned by the decree of distri- 
bution to two or more heirs, devisees or legatees, is in common and
undivided, and the respective shares are not separated and distln­
guished, partition or distribution may be made by three disinter ested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by the
probate court or judge, who must be duly sworn to the faithful di 5- 
charge of their duties. A certified copy of the order of their ap­
pointment, and of the order or decree assigning and distributing the
estate, must be issued to them as their warrant, and their oath must
be indorsed thereon. Upon consent of the parties, or when the court
deems it proper and just, it is sufficient to appoint one commissioner
only, who has the same authority and is governed by the same rules
as if three were appointed. 

Section 4~Sa. Partitioa aad ~otiee, Time ot· Filins: 
Such partition may be ordered and had in the probate court, on the
petition of any person interested. But before commissioners are ap­
pointed or partition ordered by the probate court, as directed in this Chapter, notice thereof must be given to all persons interested, who
reside in this State, or to their guardians, and to the agents, attor­
neys, or guardians, if any in this State, of such as reside out of the
State, either personally or by public notice, as the probate court
may direct. The petition may be filed, attorneys, guardians, and
agents appointed, and notice given, at any time before the order or
decree of distribution, but the commissioners must not be appointeu
until the order or decree is made distributing the estate. 

Section 4gs4. E•tale in Different Uountln, how Di­
Yided: If the real estate is in different counties, the probate court
may, if deemed proper, appoint a commissioner for all, or different com­
missioners for each county. The estate in each county must be
divided separately among the heirs, devisees, or legatees, as if there
was no other estate to be divided, but the commissioner first ap­
pointed must, unless otherwise directed by the probate court, make division of such real estate, wherever situated within this State. 

Section 4gs3. Partition and Di•1ribution wh~n
8hare8 A .. il'ned: Partition or distribution of the real estate
may be made as provided in this Chapter, although some of the orig­
inal heirs, legatees, or devisees may have conveyed their shares tu
other persons, and such shares must be assigned to the person hold­
ing the same, in the same manner as they otherwise would have been
to such heirs, legatees, or devisees. 

Section 4286. 8bar~8 Set out by .Metes and Bound•: 
When both distribution and partition are made, the several shares in
the real and personal estate must be set out to each individual in
proportion to his right. by metes amt bounds. or description, so that
the same can be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties 
interested consent to have their shares set out so as to be held by them
in common and undivided. 

Section 4987. Wlaole Eetate &••il'•ed to One, in
Certaba (}aeee: When the real estate cannot be divided without 
prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the probate court may as­
sign the whole to one or more of the parties entitled to share therein
who will accept it, always preferring the males to the females, and
among children preferring the elder to the younger. The parties
accepting the whole must pay to the other parties interested, their just
proportion of the true value thereof, or secure the same to their sat­
isfaction, or, in case of the minority of such party, then to the sat­
isfaction of his guardian. and the true value of the estate must be
ascertained and reported by the commissioners. \Vhen the commis­
sioners appointed to make partition are of the opinion that the real
estate cannot be divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the
owners, they must so report to the court, and recommend that the
whole be assigned as herein provided, and must find and report the
true value of such real estate. ,On filing the report of the commis­
sioners. and on making or securing the payment as before provided,
the court. if it appears just and proper, must confirm the report, and
thereupon the assignment is complete and the title to the whole of
such real estate vests in the person to whom the same is so assigned. 

Section 4gss. Payment• Cor Equality oC Partition: 
When any tract of land or tenement is of greater value than any
one's share in the estate to be divided. and cannot be divided with­
out injury to the same. it may be set off by the commissioners ap­
pointed to make partition to any of the parties who will accept it.
giving preference as prescribed in the preceding section. The party
accepting must pay or secure to the others such sums as the commis­
sioners shall award to make the partition equal, and the commission­
ers must make their award accordingly; but partition must not be
established by the court until the sums awarded are paid to the parties
entitled to the same. or secured to their satisfaction. 

Section 4989. Eelale may be ~old: When it appears to
the court. from the commissioners· report, that it cannot otherwise
be fairly divided. ,111<1 should be sold. the court may order the sale of
the whole or any part of the estate. real or personal, by the executor
or administrator. or by a commissioner appointed for that purpose.
and the proceeds distributed. The sale must be conducted, reported,
and confirmed in the same manner and under the same requirements
provided in Chapter CXCI of this Title. 

Section 4990. Notice to Per•••• lnterr.t1ted. DutieM
of ComDIIHlenertfl: Before any partition is made or any estate 
divided. as provided in this Chapter. notice must be given to all 
persons interested in the partition, their guardians, agents, or attor­
neys, by the commissioners, of the time and place, when and where
they shall proceed to make partition. The commissioners may take
testimony, order surveys, and take such other steps as may be neces­
sary to enable them to form a judgment upon the matters before 
them. 

Section 4~91. 'ro make Report; Recording Parti­
tion•: The commissioners must report their proceedings, and the
partition agreed upon by them, to the probate court, in writing, and
the court may, for sufficient reasons, set aside the report and commit
the same to the same commissioners or appoint others; and when
such report is finally confirmed, a certified copy of the judgment or
decree of partition made thereon, attested by the clerk, under the
seal of the court, must be recorded in the office of the recorder of the 
county where the lands lie. 

Section 4~9~. When (;ommiHionen not Nec~11•arJ': 
When the probate court makes a judgment or decree assigning the
'residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, ii: 
is not necessary to appoint commissioners to make partition or dis­
tribution thereof, unless the parties to whom the assignment is de­
creed, or some of them, request that such partition be made. 

Section 4~93. (;ourt may £.ppoint .&«eat for A.b­
eentees: When any estate is assigned or distributed by a judg­
ment or decree of tire court, as provided in this Chapter, to any per­
son residing out of and having no agent in this State, and it is neces­
sary that some person should be authorized to take possession and
charge of the same for the benefit of such absent person, the court
may appoint an agent for that purpose, and authorize him to take
charge of such estate as well as to act for such absent person in the
distribution. 

Section 4~9:1. A.rent to Give Rood. (;ompea .. ationt 
The agent must first give a bond to the probate judge, to be approved
by him, conditioned that he shall faithfully manage and account for
the estate. The court appointing such agent may allow a reasonable
sum out of the profits of the estate for his services and expenses. 

Section 4~9;J. lJnclaimed E8tate, how· Di8posed of: 
, \ Vhen personal property remains in the hands of the agent unclaimed
for a year, and it appears to the court that it is for the benefit of
those interested. it shall be sold under the order of the court: and the
proceeds. after deducting the expenses of the sale allowed by the
court. must he paid into the State treasury. \Vhen the' payment 
is made the agent must take from the treasury duplicate receipts,
one of which must be filed in the office of the State auditor and the 
other in the probate court. 

Section 4~98. 1'.b11eateet1, when Property of, to be
Seid: The agent must render to the probate court appointing him, 
annually, an account, showing : 
I. The value and character of the, property received by him,
what portion thereof is still on hand, what sold, and for what; 
!kctlon 4300. Di•~overy of· Property: The final settle­
ment of an estate does not prevent the subsequent issuance of letters 
Digitized by 
2. The income derived therefrom; 
3. The taxes and assessments imposed thereon, for what, and
whether paid or unpaid; 
4. Expenses incurred in the care, protection and management
thereof, and whether paid or unpaid. When filed, the probate court
may examine witnesses and take proofs in regard to the account;
and if satisfied from such accounts and proofs that it will be for the
benefit and advantage of the persons interested therein, the court
may, by order, direct a sale to be made of the whole or such parts of
the real or personal property as shall appear to be proper, and the
purchase money to be deposited in the State treasury. 

Section 4997. Liability ot• A.gent: The agent is liable
on his bond for the care and preservation of the estate while in his 
hands, and for the payment of the proceeds of the sale as required in
the preceding sections, and may be sued thereon by any person inter­
ested.

Section 4-aes. UertiJlcate te Ulaimant.: When any per­
son appears and claims the money paid into the treasury, the probate
court making the distribution, must inquire into such claim, and being
first satisfied of his right thereto, must grant him a certificate to
that 'effect, under its seal ; and upon the presentation of the certificate to
him, the auditor must draw his warrant on the treasurer for the
amount. 

Section 4999. Final !ijetUen1ent, De~ree, Di•charge: 
When the estate has been fully administered. and it is shown by the
executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory vouchers.
that he has paid all sums of money clue from him. and delivered up,
under the order of the court. al1 the property of the estate, to the
parties entitled. and performed all the acts lawfully required of him .. 
the court must make a judgment or decree discharging him from all 
liability to be incurred therea fter. 

Section 4300. Di•~overy of· Property: The final settle­
ment of an estate does not prevent the subsequent issuance of letters 
testamentary, or of administration with the will annexed, whenever
other property of the estate is discovered, or whenever it becomes
necessary or proper, from any cause, that letters should be again
issued. 

Section 430 I. Settlement by 'rru•tee• atlf!r Di•·
&ributioo: Where auy trust has been created by or un­
der any will to continue after distribution, the probate court
shall not lose jurisdiction of the estate by final distribution,
but shall retain jurisdiction thereof for the purpose of the
settlement of accounts under the trust. And any trustee 
created by any will, or appointed to execute any trust created by any
will, may from time to time, pending the execution of his trust, or may
at the termination thereof render and pay for the settlement of his ac­
counts as such trustee, before the probate court in which the will was
probated, and in the manner provided for the settlement of the ac­
counts of executors and administrators. The trustee, or in case of his
death, his legal representatives, shall for that purpose present to the
court his petition setting forth his accounts in detail ; and upon the
filing thereof the court or judge shall fix the day for the hearing, and :1 
citation shall be issued citing all the beneficiaries of the said trust to
appear and show cause why the account should not be allowed ; such
citation shall be served upon all the beneficiaries in the State, in the
manner provided for by the service of citations to show cause why the
final account of an executor or administrator should not be allowed
and approved. And any such trustee may, in the discretion of the
court, upon application of any beneficiary of the trust, be ordered to
appear and render his account, after being cited by service of citation,
as provided for the service of summons in civil cases. Upon the filing
of the account so ordered, the same proceedings for the hearing and
settlement thereof shall be had as are hereinbefore provided. 

Section 430". Uourt to FiI Uompen•atioo: Unless compen­
sation be provided for in the will the court shall allow the trustee
or trustees the proper expenses and such compensation for services as
the court may adjudge to be just and reasonable, and shall apportion
such compensation among the trustees according to the services ren­
dered by them respectively. and may, in its discretion, fix the yearly
compensation for the trustee or trustees to continue as long as the court 
may jud~e proper. 

Section 4303. ~ppeal Crom Decree Settling Ac~oun1: 
From a decree of the probate court settling such account, appeal may be
taken to the district court in a manner provided for an appeal from a 
decree settling the account of an executor or administrator. The de­
cree of the probate court. if affirmed on appeal, or becoming final
without appeal, shall be conclusive. 

Section 480,t. Orden and Decree• to be Enter~d: All 
orders and decrees made by the probate court during its terms, and
a11 orders which the probate judge is specially authorized to make out
of term time, or at chambers, must be entered at length in the min­
ute book of the court. Upon the close of each term the judge must
sign the minutes. 

Section 4303. Pablieatioo to be Made, laew Often: 
When any publication is ordered, such publication must be made
daily or otherwise, as often during the prescribed period as the paper
is regularly issued, unless otherwise provided in this Title. The
court or judge may, however, order a less number of publications
during the period. 

Section 4308. Beeerd~d Deere~ to Impart Notice: 
When it is provided in this Title that any order or decree of a pro­
bate court or judge, or a copy thereof. must be recorded in the office
of the county recorder, from the time of fi1ing the same for record,
notice is imparted to all persons of the contents thereof. 

Section 4308. Beeerd~d Deere~ to Impart Notice: 
When it is provided in this Title that any order or decree of a pro­
bate court or judge, or a copy thereof. must be recorded in the office
of the county recorder, from the time of fi1ing the same for record,
notice is imparted to all persons of the contents thereof. 
1887 R. S. Sec. 5657. 
1. The tit1e of the proceeding; 
2. _-\ brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;
3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and pla-:e 
specified.

Section 307. Citation, how Direded, what to Uon­
tala: Citations must be directed to the person to be cited, signed 
by the clerk, and issued under the sea] of the court. and must con­
tain: 
1. The tit1e of the proceeding; 
2. _-\ brief statement of the nature of the proceeding;
3. A direction that the person cited appear at a time and pla-:e 
specified.

Section 4308. Uitalion, how IHot-d: The citation may 
be issued by the clerk upon the application of any party, without an
order of the judge, except in cases in which such order is by the pro­
visions of this Title, expressly required . 

Section 4-909. Citation, how Served: The citation must 
he served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action. 

Section 4-SIO. Penenal Notice GiYeo by Citatien: 
When personal notice is required, and no mode of giving it is pre­
scribed in this Title, it must be given by citation. 

Section 4-811. When Citation le be SerYed: When no
other time is specially prescribed in this Title, citations must be served
at least five days before the return day thereof. 

Section 1819. De•criptioa ef' Beal E•tate; Oue Pobli·
cation Mofflcient: When a complete description of the real
property of an estate sought to be sold has been given and published
in a newspaper, as required in the order to show cause why the sale
should not be made, such description need not be published in any
subsequent notice of sale, or notice of a petition for the confirmation
thereof. It is sufficient to refer to the description contained in the
publication of the first notice, as being proved and on file in the
court. 

Section 4318. Service oC Proce.. on Guardian: 
Whenever an infant, insane, or incompetent person, has a guardian 
of his estate residing in this State, personal service upon the guar­
dian of any process, notice or order of the court concerning the
estate of a deceased person, in which the ward is interested, is equiva­
ient to the service upon the ward, and is the duty of the guardian to at­ 
tend to the interests of the ward in the matter. Such guardian may also 
appear for his ward and waive any process, notice or order to show
cause, which an adult or a person of unsound mind might do. 

Section 914. Role• oC Practice Generally: Except 
as otherwise provided in this Title, the provisions of this Code are
applicable to and constitute the mies of practice in the proceedings
mentioned in this Title. 

Section 4313. ~ew 'rrial• and .-1.ppealw: The provis­ 
ions of this Code. relative tu new trials and appeals--except in so 
far as they are inconsistent with the provisii ms of this Title-app1y
to the proceedings mentioned in this Title. 

Section 4318. Time oC &ppeal 1o ~ Taken: The ap!..
peal must be taken within sixty days afte~the order. decree. or judg­
ment is entered. 

Section 4817. IH11et1 in Prebate Ce11rt, hew Tried .
.Judpaeat: .-\II issues of fact joined in the probate court must be
tried in conformity with the requirements of Chapter CLXXXVI o~
this Title, in cases of contests of wills. and in a11 such proceedings the
party affirming is plaintifff. and the one denying 01· avoiding j:, de­
fendant. Judgment therein on the issues joined. as well as for costs,
may be entered and enforced by execution or otherwise. by the pro­
bate court. as in civil actions. 

Section 4818. Court 1o Try Caw when no .Jor,·
Demanded. I11u,11~t1: If nn jury is demanded. the court must 
try the issues joined. If. on writen demand. a jury is catted by
either party. and the issues are not sufficiently made up by the writ­
ten pleadings on file. the court. on due notice. to the opposite party.
must settle and frame the issues to be tried. and submit the same. to­
gether with the evidence of each party. to the jury, on which they
must render a verdict. Either may move for a new trial upon the same
grounds and errors. and in like manner. as provided in this Code for
civil actions. 

Section 4319. Attorney ,or Miiner, Ab8~n• a .. 1n, 
~•~., Compen•ation: .\t or before the hearing of petitions an-I 
contests for the prohate of wills. for letters testamentary or of ad­
ministration: for sales of real estate. and confirmations thereof;
settlements. partition. and distribution of estates. setting apart home­
steads. and a11 other proceedings where all the parties interested in
the estate are required to he notified thereof. the court may, in its
discretion. appoint some comneteut attorney at law to represent in
all such proceedings. the devisees, legatees. heirs. or creditors of the
decedent. who are minors <fnd have no general guardian in the
county. or whr > are non-residents of the State: and those interested
who. though they are neither such minors nor non-residents, are un­
represented. The order must specify the names of the parties. , o
far as known. for whom the attorney is appointed. who is thereby
authorized to represent such parties in a 11 such proceedings had sub­
sequent to his appointment. The attorney may receive a fee, to be 
fixed bv the court. for his services. which must be paid out of the 
funds of the estate as necessary expenses of administration, and upon
distribution may he charged to the party represented hy the attorney. 
If for anr cause. it becomes necessary, the court may substitute another attorney for the one first appointed, in which case the fee must
be proportionately divided. The non-appointment of an attorney will
not affect the validity of any of the proceedings. 

Section 48~0. Det·reoe RelatiTe to Homestead; Eff9ed
Thereof': When a judgment or decree is made, setting apart a
homestead, confirming a sale. making distribution of real estate, or
determining any other matter, affecting the title to real estate, a cer­
tified copy of the same must be recorded in the office of the recorder
of the county in which the land is situated. 

Section 4391. Co•t•, by Whom Paid in Cer1ain (;a9e9: 
When it is not otherwise prescribed in this Title. the probate court,
or the district or supreme court. on appeal. may. in its discretion,
order costs to be paid hy any party to the proceedings, or out of the
assets of the estate. as justice may require. Execution for the costs
may issue out of the probate court. 

Section 4899. Executor, ete., Removed When (}em­
mitted Cor Contempt: Whenever an executor, administrator, 
or guardian is committed for contempt, in disobeying any lawful or­
der of the probate court or the judge thereof, and has remained in
custody for thirty days without obeying such order or purging him­
self otherwise of the contempt. the probate court may. by order re­
citing the facts. and without further showing or notice. revoke his 
letters and appoint some other person entitled thereto. executor, ad­
ministrator. or guardian in his stead. 

Section 4898. County Treasurers Ex-Offl~io P11bll~ 
Admlnl•traton. Bond of: The county treasurers of the. vari­
ous counties of this State are hereby declared to be ex-officio public 
administrators in their respective counties. Each public administra­
tor shall. before he enters upon the duties of his office. take and
file his official oath and execute and file an official bond. conditioned
as the bonds of other county officers, with two good and sufficient
sureties. in a sum not less than two thousand dollars: Provided, That
the probate court may. upon reasonable cause therefore shown, require
at any time a new official bond. or an additional bond, to he given upon 
ten days' notice in writing. 

Section 4S94. E•tate• Admlnl11tered by Publi~ Ad­
mlnl•traton: Every public administrator duly qualified. must
take charge of the estates of persons dying within his county as fol­ 
lows: 
t. Of the estates of decedents for which no administrators are ap• pointed. and which. in consequence thereof. are being wasted. un- 
cared for or lost;
;z. Of the estates of decedents who have no known heirs:
3. Of estates ordered into his hands bv the probate court: and. 
4. Of estates upon which letters of administration have heen IS·· 
sued to him hy the probate court. as provided in Chapter CLXXXVTT
of this Title. 

Section 4:19:1. Pobll~ Adminl•trater, Letfen, Appll· cation: Bond and Oath: Whenever a nublic administrator 
takes charze of an estate which he is entitled under the provisions of
Chanter CLXXXVTT. of this Title. to administer without letters of ad­
ministration being- issued. or under order of the court. he must, with a 11
convenient dispatch. nrocure letters of administration thereon. N o
notice of annlication for letters hv a public administrator is necessarv,
and his official bond and oath are in lien of the administrator's hon,t
and oath: but when real estate ts ordered to he sold. another bond
may he required hy the court. 

Section 4398. Duty of PerNn• In whNf' Hou•_.
Any Ntrancer Din: Whenever ~ stranger or person without
known heirs <lies intestate in the house or premises of another. the pos­
sessor of such premises. or any one knowing the facts. must give
immediate notice thereof to the public administrator of the countv :
and in default of so doing. he is liable for any damage that may he
sustained therebv, to be recovered hv the public administrator. or anv 
party interested: 

Section 4397. · 'lffu•t Ret11rn In..-entory, et~: The public
administrator must make and return a perfect inventory of all estates 
taken into his possession. administer and account for the same, accord­
ing to the provisions of this Title. subject to the control and direction
of the probate court. When, as shown by the inventory, the estate
amounts to less than two hundred and fifty dollars. no notice to cred­
itors or other, formal proceedings by the public administrator are
required. but after the payment of the funeral expenses, the expenses
of the last sickness and of administration. the probate court must
order the residue. if any. converted into money and paid as may he
just to such creditors or heirs as may appear. or into the State treas­
ury as provided in this Chapter. 

Section 39S. Anotlaf'r Per•on Appoin1ed; Publk
A.dmlni•trator's D11ty: If. at any time. letters testamentary •
or of administration are regularly granted to any other person on an
estate of which the public administrator has charge. he must. under
the order of the probate court. account for. pay. and deliver to the
executor or administrator thus appointed, all the money. property.
papers. and estate of every kind in his possession or under his control. 

Section 4899. CIYII Officer• 1o t.iYe Ne1ice of Wa•te: 
All civil officers must inform the public administrator of all property
known to them, belonging to a decedent, which is liable to loss, in­
jury. or waste, and which, hy reason thereof. ought to he in the pos­
session of the public administrator.

Section 4SSO. S11its Cor Property of' Decedent•: The
public administrator must institute all suits and prosecutions neces­
sary to recover the property. debts. papers. or other estate of the de­
cedent.

Section 4381. Order to Exanllne Par1y Chars~d 11·ith
.EmbezzliDI' Esta1e: \ Vhen the public administrator complains
to the probate judge. on oath. that any person has concealed, em­
bezzled. or disposed of. or has in his possession, any money. goods,
property, or effects. to the possession of which such administrator is
entitled in his official capacity. the judge may cite such person to
appear before the probate court. and may examine him on oath touch­
ing the matter of such complaint. 

Section 4339.
Punishment
for
Refusing
to Attend:
Section 433". Puni•hn1ent f'or Re.-11•in« to Attend: 
All
such
.\JI such interrogatories and answers must be reduced to writing and
signed hy the party examined. and filed in the probate court. If the per­ 
son so cited refuses to appear and submit to such an examination, or 
to answer such interrogatories as may he put to him touching the
matter of such complaint. the court may commit him to the county 
ail. there to remain in close custody until he submits to the order of
the court. 

Section 4338. Order to Public Administrator to A.~­
connt: The probate court may at any time, order the public ad­
ministrator to account for and deliver all the money and property of
an estate in his hands. to the heirs, or to the executors or adrninistra­
tors regularly appointed. 

Section 4334. l'tl.o•t Puhli•h Condition of'Eliltate, etc: 
The public administrator must. once in every six months. make to
the probate judge. under oath. a return of all estates of decedents
which have come into his hands. the val~e of the same. the money
which has come into his hands from each estate. and what he has
done with it. and the amount of his fees and expenses incurred, and
the balance. if any. remaining in his hands. 

Section 4333. Moneys, ete., Paid int•· Nfate Trea•·
ory, when: .\ fter a final settlement of the affairs of any estate,
if there be no heirs or other claimants thereof. the public adminis­
trator must pay into the State treasury. all monies and effects in his
hands belonging to the estate. as provided in Chapter CXCV. of this Title for payments by agents. 

Section 336. Admlnl•trator not f o be lntere•ted In
Payment•: The public administrator must not be interested in
the expenditures of anv kind. made on account of any estate he ad­
ministers: nor must he he associated. in business or otherwise with any
one who is so interested. 

Section 4337. Failor_. te pay oYer 1'100 .. y, Proc-eed­
inl'• to RecoYer: When it appears, that any money remains in
the hands of the public administrator ( after a final settlement of the
estate) unclaimed. which should be paid over to the State treasurer.
the probate judge must order the same to he paid over: and. on fail­
ure of the public administrator to comply with the order within ten
<lays after the same is made. the prosecuting- attornev for the countv
must immediately institute the requisite legal proceedings against the
nublic administrator for a judgment against him and the sureties on
his official bond. in the amount of money so withheld. and costs.

Section 433~. Precedin_- Chapten A.pplicablf' to
Public A.dmini•trator: When no direction is given in this Chapter for the g-overnment or g11idance of a public administrator in
the discharge of his duties. or for the administration of an estate in 
his hands . ._the provisions of the preceding Chapters of this Title
must govern. 

Section 4339. Court te Appoint Guardian•, wh~n: 
The prohate court of each county. when it appears necessary or con­
venient. may appoint guardians for the persons and estates. or either
of them. of minors who have no guardian legally appointed by will 
or deed, and who are inhabitants or residents of the county, or who 
reside without the State and have estate within the county. Such
appointment may be made on the petition of a relative or other per­ 
son on behalf of the minor. or on the petition of the minor, if four­
teen years of age. Before making such appointment. the court must
cause such notice as such court deems reasonable to any person hav­
ing the care of such minor. and to such relatives of the minor in the
county as the court may deem proper. 

Section 4340. When Minor may :Nomlna1e Guard­
ian: If the minor is under the age of fourteen years, the probate
court may nominate and appoint his guardian. If he is above the
age of fourteen years. he may nominate his own guardian. who. !f 
approved by the court, must be appointed accordingly.

Section 4841. When Juda-e may Make Appointment: 
If the guardian nominated hy the minor is not approved hy the court,
or if the minor resides out of the State. or if. after being duly cited by
the court, he neglects for ten days to nominate a suitable person, the
court may nominate and appoint the guardian. in the same manner as if
the minor were under th~ age of fourteen years. 

Section 4349. "Nomination by Minon Ane·r ArriY•
lag at Feurfeen: \Vhen a g-uardian has been appointed by the
court for a minor under the age of fourteen. the minor at any time
after he attains that age. may appoint his own guardian, subject to 
. the approval of the probate court. 

Section 4343. Father or l'flother En titled to Guar­
dlan•hlp: Either the father or mother of a minor, being them­
selves respectively competent to transact their own business. and not
otherwise unsuitable, must he entitled to the guardianship of the 
minor. 
Section 4944. 1'1iner Ba-Ying no Parent•: If the minor
has no father or mother Jiving. competent to have the custody and
care of his education. the guardian appointed shall have the same.

Section 43,13. Powen and Du1ie• o, Guardian: 
Every guardian appointed shall have the custody and care of the
education of the minor. and the care and management of his estate.
until such minor arrives at the age of majority or marries, or until 
the guardian is legally discharged. 

Section 4348. Bond e£Gaardian, Condition11 ofi Be 
fore the order appointing any person guardian under this Chapter
takes effect. and before 1etters issue. the judge must require of sucn
person a bond to the minor. with sufficient sureties. to be approved
by the judge. and in such sum as he shall order. conditioned that the
guardian will faithfully execute the duties of his trust according to
law; and the following conditions shall form a part of such bond.
without being expressed therein: 
I. To make an inventory of a11 the estate. real and personal. of
his ward that comes to his possession or knowledge, and to return the
same within such time as the judge may order: 
2. To dispose of and manage the estate according to law and for
the best interest of the ward. and faithfully to discharge his trust in
relation thereto. and also in relation to the care, custody, and educa­
tion of the ward ; 
3. To render an account. on oath. of the property. estate. and
monevs of the ward in his hands, and all proceeds or interests derived 
therefrom. and of the management and disposition of the same.
within three months after his anointment. and at such other times
as the court directs : and at the expiration' of his trust to settle his
accounts with the court or with the ward, if he be of full age, or his
legal representatives. and to nav over and deliver all the estate.
monies. and effects remaining in his hands, or due from him on
such settlement. to the person who is lawfully entitled thereto. Upon
filing the bond. duly apnroved, letters of guardianship must issue to
the person appointed. T n form. the letters of R"t.1ardianship must he ·
substantiallv the same as letters of administration: and the oath of
the guardian must he indorsed thereon that he wilt perform the du­
ties of his office. as such guardian. according to law.

Section 4347. Special Conditions in Order Appoint­ 
inr;: When any person is appointed g-uardian of a minor. the pro­
bate court may. with t~e consent of such person. insert in the order
of appointment conditions not otherwise obligatory. providing fo:
the care. treatment. education. and welfare of the minor. The
performance of such conditions is a part of the duties of the g-uardian.
for the faithful performance of which he and the sureties on his bond
are responsible. 

Section 4848. Letter'-' or Goardian8l1ip, Bond: _\ 11 
letters of guardianshio issued. and all guardians' bonds executed
tinder the provisions of this Chanter, with the affidavits and certificates
thereon. must he recorded by the clerk of the probate court havinz
jurisdiction of the persons and estates of the wards. 

Section 4349. 1'1alntenance of" Miner out or Hl1
own Property: If any minor, having a father living, has
property, the income of which is sufficient for his maintenance and
education in a manner more expensive than his father can reasona­
bly afford, regard being had to the situation of the father's family
and to all the circumstances of the case, the expenses of the educa­
tion and maintenance of such minor may be defrayed out of the in­
come of his own property, in whole or in part, as judged reasonable,
and must be directed by the probate court; and the charges therefore
may be allowed accordingly in the settlement of the accounts of his 

Section 4330. A.ppointment by Will or Deed: A 
guardian of the person or estate, or of both, of a child born, or likely
to be born, may be appointed by will or by deed, to take effect upon
the death of the parent appointing: 
I. If the child be legitimate, by the father, with the written con­
sent of the mother, or by.either parent, if the other be dead or incapable
of consent; 
2. If the child be illegitimate, by the mother. 

Section 4331. Guardian to GiYe Bend; Power• Lim­
ited: Every testamentary guardian must give bond and qualify,
and has the same powers and must perform the same duties, with re­
gard to the person and estate of his ward, as guardians appointed by
the probate court. except so far as their powers and duties are le­
gally modified, enlarged. or changed by the will by which such guar­
dian was appointed.

Section 433". Power oC Court, to Appoint In 8uit11 
Nothing contained in this Chapter affects or impairs the power of
any court to appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any minor
interested in any suit or matter pending therein. 

Section 4333. ln•ane and Other Incompete•t Per­ 
••n•: When it is represented to the probate judge, upon verified
petition of any relative or friend. that any person is insane, or from
any cause mentally incompetent to manage his property, the judge 
must cause a notice to be given to the supposed insane or incompetent
person, of the time and place of hearing the case, not less than five
days before the time so appointed, and such person, if able to attend,
must be produced before him on the hearing. 

Section 4334. A.ppoiatment by Probate Jud5e A.t­
ter Bearinl': If, after a full hearing and examination upon such
petition, it appears to the probate court that the person in question
is incapable of taking care of himself and managing his property, the
court must appoint a guardian of his person and estate, with the
powers and duties in this Chapter specified. 

Section 1333. Power• and Dotie. oC tiiuch Guar­
dian•: Every guardian appointed, as provided in the preceding
Section, has the care and custody of the person of his ward, and the 
management of all his estate until such guardian is legally dis­
charged; and he must give bond to such ward in like manner and
with like conditions as before prescribed with respect to the guar­
dian of a minor. 

Section 4336. Proceedins• t'or Restoration oi· lu­
... e, etc: Any person who has been _ declared insane or incompe­
tent, or the guardian or any relative of. such person, or any frienc.l
may apply by petition, to the probate court of the county in which
he was declared insane, to have the fact of his restoration to capacity
judicially determined. The petition shall be verified and shall state
that such person is then sane or competent. 
Upon receiving the petition the court must appoint a day for ;i 
hearing before the court, and if the petitioner request it, shall order
an investigation before a jury, which shall be summoned and impan­
eled in the same manner as juries are summoned and empaneled in
civil actions. The court shall cause notice of the trial to be given
to the guardian of the person so declared insane or incompetent, 1 i 
there be a guardian, and to his or her husband or wife, if there be
one, and to his or her father or mother, if living i11; the county. On
the trial the guardian or relative of the person so declared insane or
incompetent, and, in the discretion of the court, any other person
may contest the right to the relief demanded. Witnesses may be
required to appear and testify, as in civil cases, and may be called
and examined by the court on its own motion. If it be found that
the person be of sound mind and capable of taking care of himself
and his property, his restoration to capacity shall be adjudged, and
the guardianship of such person, if such person be not a minor. shall 
cease. 

Section 4337. To Pay Debt• out of Ward'• E1111ate: 
Every guardian appointed under the provisions of this Chapter, 
whether for a minor or any other person, must pay all just debts due
from the ward, out of his personal estate and the income of his real
estate, if sufficient; if not, then out of his real estate, upon obtain­
ing an order for the sale thereof, and disposing of the same in the
manner provided in this Title for the sale of real estate of decedents. 

Section '1-338. To RecoYer Debt• doe Ward: Everv
guardian must settle all acounts of the ward, and demand, sue fo;, 
and receive all debts due to him, or may, with the approbation of the
probate judge, compound for the same and give discharges to the
debtors on receiving a fair and just dividend of his estate and effects;
and he must appear for and represent his ward in all legal suits and
proceedings, unless another person is appointed for that purpose. 

Section 48:19. ftanase E•tate, 1'1ain1aia Ward, Sell
Real E•tate: Every guardian must manage the estate of his
ward frugally and without waste. and apply the income and profits
thereof. as far as may be necessary. for the comfortable and suitable
maintenance. support and education of the ward and his family, ii 
there be any: and if such income and profits be insufficient for that
purpose. the guardian may sell the real estate, upon obtaining an
order of the court therefore, as provided, and must apply the proceeds
of such sale. as far as may be necessary, for the maintenance and
support of the ward and his family, if there be any.

Section 4380. Maintenance, Support and Educatlen 
oC Ward: When a guardian has advanced. for the necessary
maintenance. support. or education of his ward. an amount not dis­
proportionate to the value of his estate. or his condition of life, and
the same is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court by proper
vouchers and proofs, the guardian must be allowed credit therefore in his settlements.
Whenever a guardian fails, neglects, or refuses to furnish suitable
and necessary maintenance, support or education for his ward, the
court may order him to do so, and enforce such order by proper pro­
cess. Whenever any third person, at his request, supplies a ward
with such suitable and necessary maintenance, support, or education,
and it is shown to have been done after refusal or neglect of the guar­
dian to supply the same, the court may direct the guardian to pav
therefore out of the estate, and enforce such payment by due process. 

Section 4381. May A...-eut to Partitien oC Real E•­
tate: The guardian may join in and assent to a partition of the 
real estate of the ward, wherever such assent may be given by any
person. 

Section 438~. 1aventory. A.pprai•er• A.ppointed, &i:
ter A.cquired Property: Every guardian must return to the 
probate court an inventory of the estate of his ward within three
months after his appointment, and annually thereafter. The pro­
bate court may, upon application for that purpose by any person,
compel the guardian to render an account to the probate court of the
estate of his ward. The inventories and accounts so to be returned or
rendered must be sworn to by the guardian. • All the estate of the
ward described in the first inventory must be appraised by apprais­
ers appointed, sworn, and acting in the manner provided for regulat­
ing the· settlement of the estate of decedents. Such inventory, with
the appraisement of the property therein described, must be recorded
by the clerk of the probate court in a proper book kept in his office
for that purpose. Whenever any other property of the estate of any
ward is discovered, not included in the inventory of the estate already
returned, and whenever any other property has been succeeded to or
acquired by any ward, or for his benefit, the like proceedings must
be had for the return and appraisement thereof that are herein pro­
vided in relation to the first inventory and return.

Section 4383. 8ettlement• of· Guardians: The guardian
must, upon the expiration of a year from the time of his appoint­ 
ment, and as often thereafter as may be required, present his account 
to the probate court for settlement and allowance. 

Section 4364. Allowance ot· Account•: When an a~­
count is rendered by two or more joint guardians, the probate judge
may, in his discretion, allow the same upon the oath of any of them. 

Section 4383. .Expen-.e• and (;ompen•ation o.t· Guar­
dian: Every guardian must be allowed the amount of his reasona­
ble expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and he must also
have such compensation for his services as the court in which his ac­ 
counts are settled deems just and reasonable. 

Section 388. May Sell Property io (;ertaio fJa•et1: 
When the income of an estate under guardianship is insufficient to
maintain the ward and his family, or to maintain and educate the
ward when a minor, his guardian may sell his real or personal estate
for that purpose, upon obtaining an order therefore. 

Section '1387. Sale of B~I Eetat~ made upon Or­
der or (;ourt: When it appears to the satisfaction of the court,
upon the petition of the guardian, that for the benefit of his ward his
real estate, or some part thereof, should be sold, and the proceeds
thereof put out at interest, or invested in some productive stock, or
in the improvement or security of any other real estate of the ward,
his guardian may sell the same for such purpose, upon obtaining an 
order therefore. 

Section 438e. A.pplicatlen o.f Proceed11t ot· Sain: If 
the estate is sold for the purposes mentioned in this Chapter, the
guardian must apply the proceeds of the sale to such purposes, as far
as necessary, and put out the residue, if any. on interest, or invest i:
in the best manner in his power, until the capital is wanted for the
maintenance of the ward and his family, or the education of his chil­
dren, or for the education of the ward when a minor, in which case
the capital may be used for that purpose, as far as may be necessary,
in like manner as if it had been personal estate of the ward. 

Section 4389. love•1m~nt8 of· Pro~~eds o.t·~ale•: If 
the estate is sold for the purpose of putting out or investing the prn.
ceeds, the guardian must make the investment according to his best
judgment. or in pursuance of any < .rder that may he made by the pro­
bate court. 

Section 4370. Order oC Sal~, how· Ob1ain e d: 'T'o ob­
tain an order for such sale, the guardian must present to the probate 
court of the county in which he was appointed guardian, a verified
petition therefore, setting forth the condition of the estate of his ward,
and the facts and circumstances on which the petition is founded,
tending to show the necessity or expediency of a sale. 

Section 437'1. Notice to :Next oC Kin, how Given: If
it appears to the court or judge, from the petition, that is is neees­ 
sary or would be beneficial to the ward that the real estate, or some
part if it, should be sold; or that the real and personal estate should
be sold, the court or judge must thereupon make an order directing
the next of kin of the ward, and all persons interested in the estate,
to appear before the court, at a time and place therein specified. not
less than four nor more than eight weeks from the time of making
such order, to show cause why an order should not be granted for
the sale of such estate. If it appears that it is necessary or· would be
beneficial to the ward to sell the personal 

Section 437'". CJopy oC Order to be SerTed, etc: A 
copy of the order must be personally served on the next of kin of
the ward, and on all persons interested in the estate, at least fourteen
days before the hearing of the petition, or must be published at least
three successive weeks in a newspaper printed in the county, if there
he none printed in the county, then in such newspaper as may be
specified by the court or judge in the order. 
If written consent to making the order of sale is subscribed by all
persons interested therein. and the next of kin .. notice need not be 
served or published. 

Section 4379. Hearing oC Application: The probate
court. at the time and place appointed in the order, or such other
time to which the hearing is postponed, upon proof of the service or 
pub]ication of the order, must hear and examine the proofs and alle­
gations of the petitioner and of the next of kin, and of all other per­
sons interested in the estate who oppose the application. 

Section 437' -1. Wlao Examined on Sueh Bearing: 
On the hearing the guardian may he examined on oath, and wit­
neses may be produced and examined by either party. and process 
to compel their attendance and testimony may be issued by the pro­
hate court or judge. in the same manner and with like effect as in
other cases provided for in this Title.

Section 4373. C•t• to be A. warded, to wlaom: If 
any person appears and objects to the granting of any order prayed
for under the provisions of this Chapter, and it appears to the court
that either the petition or the objection thereto is sustained, the court
may, in granting or refusing the order, award costs to the party pre­
vailing, and enforce the payment thereof. 

Section 4378. Order of 8ale to SpecHy what: If, 
after a full examination, it appears necessary, or. for the benefit of
the ward, that his real estate, or some part thereof should be solo:
the court may grant an order therefore, specifying therein, the causes
or reasons why the sale is necessary or beneficial, and may, if the
same has been prayed for in the petition, order such sale to be made
either at public or private sale.

Section 4377. Bead llef'ore 8ellin5. Proceedins•: 
Every guardian authorized to sell real estate must, before the sale,
give bond to the "ward, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
court, or a judge thereof, with condition to sell the same in the man­
ner, and to account for the proceeds of the sale, as provided for iu
this Chapter, and Chapter CXCI of this Title. 

Section 4378. Proceedias• for Sale ot· Property: 
All the proceedings under petition of guardians for sales of property
of their wards, giving notice and the hearing of such petitions:
granting or refusing the order of sale, directing the sale to be made
at public or private sale, reselling the same property, return of sale
and application for confirmation thereof, notice and hearing of such
application, making orders rejecting or confirming sales and re­
ports of sales, ordering and making conveyances of property sold, a..:­
counting and the settlement of account, must be had and made as re­
quired by the provisions of this Title concerning estates of decedents.
unless otherwise specially provided in this Chapter. 

Section 48'79. Limit ot· Order ot· Sale: No order of
sale granted in pursuance of this €hapter continues in force more 
than one year after granting the same, without a sale being had, 

Section 4380. (}ondi1ioo• of· 8aleta oC Real EMtate.
ftortsage for DeCerred Payments: All sales of real estate
of wards must be for cash, or for part cash and part deferred pay- 
ments, not to exceed three years, bearing date from date of sale, as,
in the discretion of the probate judge, is most beneficial to the ward.
Guardians making sales must demand and receive from the pur­
chasers bond and mortgage on the real estate sold, with such addi­
tional security as the judge deems necessary and sufficient to secure
the faithful payment of the deferred payments and the interest
thereon. 

Section 438 I. May Order lnTeatm~nt oC Meney: The 
probate court, on the application of a guardian or any person inter­
ested in the estate of any ward, after such notice to persons inter­
ested therein as the probate judge shall direct, may authorize and re­
quire the guardian to invest the proceeds of sales, and any other of
his ward's money in his hands, in real estate, or in any other manner
most to the interest of all concerned therein; and the probate court
may make such other orders and give such directions as are needful
for the management, investment, and disposition of the estate and
effects, as circumstances require. 

Section 438g. Guardian ot· Non-Re•ident P~noos: 
When a person liable to be put under guardianship, according to the
provisions of this Chapter, resides without this State, and has estate
therein, any friend of such person, or anyone interested in his es­
tate, in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the probate court of
any county in which there is any estate of such absent person, for
the appointment of a guardian; and if, after notice given to all inter­
ested, in such manner as the judge orders, and a full hearing and ex­
amination, it appears proper, a guardian for such absent person may
be appointed. 

Section 4383. Power8 and Dutiea ot· Guardian: 
Every guardian. appointed under the preceding Section, has the
same powers and perform the same duties, with respect to the estate
of the ward found within this State, and with respect to the person
of the ward. if he shall come to reside therein as are prescribed with
respect to any other guardian appointed under this Chapter. 

Section 4384. G11ardian to GiYe Bond•: Every guar­
dian must give bond to the ward, in the manner and with the like con­
ditions as hereinbefore provided for other guardians. except that the
provisions respecting the inventory. the disposal of the estate and ef­
fects, and the account to he rendered hy the guardian, must be con­
fined to such estate and effects as come to his hands in this state. 

Section 43S.I. To What Guardianship •hall Ei:end: 
The guan.lianship which is first lawfully granted, of any person re- 
siding without this state, extends to a11 the estate of the ward within
the same, and excludes the jurisdiction of the probate court of every 
siding without this state, extends to all the estate of the ward within the same, and excludes the jurisdiction of the probate court of every other county.

Section 4388. RenaoYal or No11-Re.ideot Ward'"
Property: When the guardian and ward are both non-residents,
and the ward is entitled to property in this state which may be re­
moved to another state. territory or foreign country without conflict
with any restriction or limitation thereupon. or impairing the right >f 
the ward thereto. such property may be removed to the state. territory.
or foreign country of the residence of the ward. upon the application
of the guardian to the probate court of the county in which the es­
tate of the ward. or the principal part thereof. is situated. 

Section 4'387. Pro~eediDl{fl on such R,.moval: The
application must he made upon ten days' notice to the resident exe­
cutor. administrator. or guar<lian. if there he such. and upon such
annlication. the non-resident g-uar<lian must produce and file a cer­
tificate under the hand of the clerk. and seal of the court from which 
his appointment was derived. showing : 
1. A transcript of the record of his appointment
2. That he has entered unon the discharge of his duties:
~- That he is entitled hy the laws of the state or territory of his 
apnointrnent to the possession of the estate of the ward.
Upon such application. unless good cause to the contrarv is shown .. 
the probate court must make an order. f!rantin~ to such gnardian
leave to take and remove the nrooerty of his ward to the state .ir
place of his residence. which is authoritv to him to sue for amt
receive the same in his own name. for the use and benefit of his ward. 

Section 438@1. Dit1~ha...-~ o, Penon in Po••n•lon: 
Such order is a discharge of the executor. administrator. local g-u~r­
dian, or other person in whose nossession the property may he at. the
time the order is made. on filing- with the probate court the receipt
therefore of the foreign girnr<lian of such absent ward. 

Section 4390. G11ardiao'1.1 Bond to be Filed: Everv
bond given by a guardian must be filed and preserved in the office ~f
the clerk of the probate court of the county; and in case of a breach 
of a condition thereof. may be prosecuted for the use and benefit of
the ward or of any person interested in the estate. 

Section 433i. Limitation of Action on Bond: No 
action can be maintained against the sureties on any bond given by
a guardian, unless it be commenced within three years from the dis­
charge or removal of the guardian: but if at the time of such dic;­
charge. the person entitled to bring such action is under any legal
disability to sue, the action may be commenced at any time within
three years after such disability is removed. 

Section 4399. J.,imitatloa oC Action• Cor RecoYery oC
Property · ~old: . No action for the recovery of any estate sold by 
a guardian can be maintained by the ward or by any person
claiming under him. unless it is commenced within three years
next after the termination of the guardianship, or when a legal dis­
ability to sue exists by reason of minority or otherwise, at the time
when the cause of action accrues. within three vears next after the 
removal thereof. 

Section 4393. Certain ProTl•ion• £pply to Guar­
dian•: The nrovisions as to qualification and justification of sure­
ties to undertakings. are hereby declared to apply to guardians ap­ 
pointed by the court. and to the bonds taken. or to be taken. from
such guardians. and to the sureties on such bonds. 

Section 4394. Removal and Reai1"nation o, G11ar­
dlan. Surrender of" Et1tate: When a guardian. appointed 
either l.v the testator or the probate court. becomes insane or other­
, .. ise inca-nble of discharging his trust. or unsuitable therefore. or has
wasted or mismanaged the estate. or failed for thirty days after being
required to render an account or make a return. the probate court
may. upon such notice to the guardian as the court may require. re­
move him and comnel him to surrender the estate of the ward to the
person found to he la-. Fu 11y entitled thereto. Every guardia» me! y
re!=ig-n when it appears proper to allow the same: and upon the res­
ignation or removal of a g,rnrdian. as herein provided. the probate
court or the iu<lge I hereof may annoint another in the place of the
guardian who !,~,~ resigned or has been removed, 

Section 4S93. Guardian•hip, how Terminated: The
marriage of a minor ward terminates the guardianship, and the guar­
dian of an insane or other person may be discharged by the probate
court when it appears to him. on the application of the ward. or oth­ 
erwise. that the guardianship is no longer necessary. 

Section 398. Examination o, Penon• 8o•~ett-d or 
Defrauding Ward•': Upon complaint made to him by any 
g"tlat rlian, ward. creditor. or other person interested in the estate. or
. having a respective interest therein as heir or otherwise. against 
any one suspected of having concealed. embezzled. or conveyed
away. any of the money. g-oods. or effects. or an instrument in writ­
ing. belonging- to the ward or his estate. the probate judge may cite
such suspected nerson to appear before him. and may examine and
proceed with him on such charge in the manner provided in th is title with respect to persons suspected of and charged with conceal­
ing or embezzling the effects of a decedent. 

Section 4397. More than one Guardian may IN' Ap­
polnt .. d: The court. in its discretion. whenever· necessary. may
annoint more than one guardian of any person subject to g'tlardian­
ship. who must give bond and he governed and liable in all respects
as a sole guardian.

Section 4:198. Power o, ProbaC~ Jod,re at Cham­
ben: The nower conferred upon the probate judge in relation tr,
~uardians and wards, mav he exercised bv him at -chambers. or as
the act of the r-robate court. when holding- St1Ch court: and any order
annointing a g-nar<lian must he entered as. and become a decree of
the court. The provisions of this title relative to the estates of de­
cedents. so far as they relate to the nractice in the probate or district 
courts, anply to nroceedings under this chapter.


Section 4399. When may be Takt-n: An appeal may
hf' taken to the district court of the county from a judgment or order 
of the nrobate court in probate matters: 
r , Crantinz, refusinr- or revoking letters testamentary. or of ad­ 
ministration. or of guardiam;hap:
i. Admitting. or refusing to admit, a will to probate
3. Against or in favor of the validity of a will. or revoking the
probate thereof; 
3.
4. Against or in favor of setting apart property, or making an
allowance for a widow or child: 
5. Against or in favor of directing the partition, sale. or convey­
ance of real property; 
6. Settling an account of an executor. or administrator. or guar- 
dian;
7. Refusing. allowing. or directing the distribution or partition of
an estate. or any part thereof. or the payment of a debt, claim, legacy. 
or distributive share:
8. Confirming report of appraiser setting apart the homestead. 

Section 4400. Executon, ete., not Requir~d to Give
1Jndertaking: When an executor. administrator or guardian 
who has given an official bond. appeals from a judgment or order of
the probate court made in the proceedings had upon the estate of
which he is administrator, executor. or guardian, his official bond
stands in the place of an undertaking on appeal, and the sureties
therein are liable as on such undertaking.

Section 4401. A.ct8 not lnTalidated. ReYenal oC
Order A.ppointh1g En~c11tor, etc: When the order or decree 
appointing an executor. administrator. or guardian. is reversed on
appeal for error. and not for want of jurisdiction of the court, all law­
ful acts in administration upon the estate performed hy such executor.
administrator or guardian. if he have qualified. are as valid as if
such order or decree had been affirmed. 

Section 4409. Que•tlon• oCLaw AddreHed to Court: 
.·\11 questions of law arising upon the trial. including the admissi­
bility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such admission, and
the construction of statutes and other writings, and other rules of
evidence, are to be decided by the court when submitted and before
the trial proceeds, and all discussions of law are to be addressed to the 
court. 

Section 4403. •peciffeation oC Certain t,act. A.•­ 
w11med True: Courts take judicial notice of the following facts: 
1. The true signification of all English words and phrases, and of
legal expressions ; 
2. Whatever is established by law;
3. Public and private official acts of the legislative, executive and 
judicial departments of this state and of the United States.
4. The seals of all the courts of this state and of the United 
States;
5. The accession to office and the official signatures and seals of 
office of the principal officers of government in the legislative, ex­
ecutive and judicial departments of this state and of the United
States; 
6. The existence, title, national flag, and seal of every state or
sovereign recognized by the executive power of the United States; 
7. The seals of courts of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and
of notaries public; . 
8. . The laws of nature. the measure of time, and the geographi­
cal divisions and political history < f the world. In all these cases
the court may resort for its aid to appropriate books or documents of 
reference.
\Vhenever the knowledge of the court is by this section made evi­ 
dence of a fact. the court is to declare such knowledge to the jury,
who are bound to accept it.

Section 4404. Peno•• C1apablfl! ef' Perception may be 
Wltnn•n: AH persons. without exception. otherwise than is 
specified in the next two sections. who. having organs of sense. can
perceive. and. oerceiving. can make known· their perceptions to oth­
ers. may be witnesses. Therefore. neither parties nor other persons
who have an interest in the event of an action or proceedings are ex­
eluded : nor those· who have been convicted of crime : nor persons on
account of their opinions on matters of religious helief: although in
everv case the credibilitv of the witness mav he drawn in question.
by the manner in which he testifies. hy the character of his testi­
mony. or by evidence affecting his character for truth. honesty. or
integrity, or his motives. or hy contradictory evidence: and the jury
are the exclusive Judges of his credibility. 

Section 4403. Penon11 who ~anaot Tntit:v: The fol­
lowing persons cannot he. witnesses: 
r. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their produc­
tion for examination; 
2. Children under ten years of age. who appear incapable of re­
ceiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are ex­ 
amined. or of relating them truly;
3. Parties or assignors of parties to an action or proceeding. or 
persons in whose behalf an action or proceeding is prosecuted. against
an executor or an administrator. upon a claim or demand against the
estate of a deceased person. as to any matter of fact occurring before
the death of such deceased person. 

Section 4408. Tnthnony Violatinc UonOdential
Relations Prohibited: There are particular relations in whicn
it is the policy of the Jaw to encourage confidence and to preserve i~
inviolate: thereforee, a person cannot he examined as a witness in the
following cases : 
I. A husband cannot he examined for or against his wife. with­
out her consent. nor a wife for or against her husband. without his
consent; nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, he with-­
out the consent of the other. examined as to any communication made
by one to the other during the marriage: but this exception does not
apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to
a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed hy violence n f
one against the person of the other: 
2. An attorney cannot. without the consent of his client, be exam­
ined as to any communication made by the client to him, or his ad­
vice given thereon in the course of professional employment; 
~- A cJergyman or priest cannot. without the consent of the per­
son making the confession. he examined as to any confession made
to him in his professional character in the course of discipline ('.'tl- 
joined by the church to which h~ be~ongs ~ 
4. A physician or surgeon cannot, without · the consent of his
patient, be examined in a civil action as to any information acquired
in attending the patient which was necessary to enable him. to pre­
scribe or act for the patient ; 
5. A public officer cannot be examined as to communications made
to him in official confidence. when the public interests would suffer
by the disclosure. 

Section 448'7. Judie or Juror may he WitneH: The
judge himself, or any juror. may be called as a witness by either
party; but in such case it is in the discretion of the court to order the
trial to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before another 
judge or jury.

Section 4488. When an Interpreter to be Swern: 
When a witness does not understand and speak the English language.
an interpreter must be sworn to interpret for him. Any person. a
resident of the proper county. may be summoned hy any court or
judge to appear before such court or judge to act as interpreter in any
action or proceeding. The summons must he served and returned
in like manner as a subpoena. Any person so summoned who fails
to attend at the time and place named in the summons. is guilty of
a contempt. 

Section 4489. Citizen•1 Entitled to In11pect Puhlit­
"1ritinC": Every citizen has a right to inspect and take a copy of
any public writing of this state, except as otherwise expressly pro­
vided by statute. 

Section 4418. Puhlk OtnceN 1'1011t GiYe Cepin: 
Every public officer having the custody of a oublic writing. which a
citizen has a rizht to inspect. is hound to ~ive him. on demand. a
certified copy of it. on pavrnent of the leg-al fees therefore. and such
copy is admissible as evidence in like cases and with like effect a,
the original writing. 

Section 4411. Official Certiftcate•,rf'ent~nf, o'= ,vhen­
ever a copy of a writing is certified for the purpose of evidence. the 
certificate must state in substance. that the copv is a correct copy of 
the original. or of a snecified part thereof. as the case may be. The
certificate must he under the official seal of the certifying officer. if
there be any. or if he he a clerk of a court having a seal. under the 
seal of such court. 

Section 4419. 8tatutn Defined: Statutes are public or
private. A private statute is one which concerns only certain des­
ignated individuals. and affects only their private rights. A 11 other
statutes are public. in which are included statutes creating or affect­
ing corporations. 

Section 4413. Hind• of· Pttbli~ W,-tffJI'°•: Publk 
writings are divided into four classes ; 
1. Laws; 
2. Judicial records ;
3. Other official documents ; 
4. Public records kept in this state, of private writings. 

Section 114:. A11thorized Public.-ation ot· 8ia101orJ
Law Preeum~d Correct: Books printed or published under 
the authority of a state. territory, or foreign country, and purport­
ing to contain the statutes, code, or other written law of such state1I 
territory. or country. or proved to. be commonly admitted in the
tribunals of such state. territory, or country as evidence of the written
law thereof. are admissible in this state as evidence of such law.

Section 4413. Certified Copy of Law, or Publl~
Wrltlnl': A copy of the written Jaw. or other public writing of 
any state. territory. or country. attested by the certificate of the
officer having charge of the original. under the public seal of the
state, territory. or country. is admissible as evidence of such law or
writing. 

Section 4418. Oth~r Evldenc~ of' Lawe or 01her
State•: The oral testirnonv of witnesses skilled therein, is adrnis­
sible as evidence of the unwritten law of another state. territory. ot 
foreign country. as are also printed and published books of reports of
the decisions of the courts of such state. territory or country, com­
monly admitted in such courts.

Section 441'7~ Bet-Ital- In 81a1u1f'•, how Far ETI·
dence: The recitals in a public statute are conclusive evidence of
the facts recited for the puroose of carrying it into effect, but nn
further. The recitals in a nrivate statute are conclusive evidence he­
tween parties who claim under its provisions. but no further. 

Section 4418. Jodl~lal Ret-erd De-flnf'd: A. judicial
record is the record or official entry of the orocee<lings in a court of
justice. or of the official act of a judicial officer. in an action or spe­
cial proceeding. 

Section 4419. Record, how Authentltiate-d aw ETI·
dence: A judicial record of this state. or of the United States, may
be proved by the production of the original. or by a copy thereof. 
certified by the clerk or other person having the legal custody 
thereof. That of another state or territory may be proved by the
attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be
a clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the chief judge or
presiding magistrate. that the attestation is in due form. 

Section 44'10. R~cord or Forei.-n Country, how·
A.othenfieated: .-\ judicial record of a foreign country may be
proved by the attestation of the clerk, with the seal of the court an­
nexed. if there be a clerk or sea], or of the legal keeper of the rec­
ord, with the sea] of his office annexed. if there be a seal, together
with a certificate of the chief judge. or presiding magistrate, that
the person making the attestation is the clerk of the court or the
legal keeper .of the record. and, in either case, that the signature of
such person is genuine. and that the attestation is in due form. The
signature of the chief judge. or presiding magistrate. must be authen­
ticated by the certificate of .the minister or ambassador. or a con­
sul. vice-consul, or consular agent of the United States in such for­
eign country. 

Section 44g1. Oral ETidt-nc~ or a Foreign Record: 
A copy of the judicial record of a foreign country is also admissible
in evidence. upon proof: 
r. That the ropy offered has been compared hy the witness with
the original and is an exact transcript of the whole of it: 
2. That such original was in the custody of the clerk of the court. 
or other leg;ll keeper of the same: and.
3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is proved to he 
the seal of the court where the records remain. if it be the record
of a court. or if there he no such seal. or if it he not a record of <1 
court. hy the sig-nature of the legal keeper of the original, 

Section 44~9. Ju•tiees' Judsment how Prowed: A 
transcript from the record or docket of a justice of the peace of another
state or territory, of a judgment rendered by him, of the proceed­
ings in the action before the judgment, of the execution and return,
if any, subscribed by the justice and verified in the manner pre­
scribed in the next section, is admissible evidence of the facts stated 
transcript
from the record or docket of a justice of the peace of another state or territory. of a · therein. 

Section 4.J.93. A.otbenticatlon oC Justice'• Jod«­
ment: There must be attached to the transcript a certificate of the
justice that the transcript is in all respects correct. and that he
had jurisdiction of the action, and also a further certificate of the
clerk or prothonotary of the county in which the justice resided at
the time of rendering the judgment, under the seal of the county, or
the seal of the court of common pleas. or county court. or court of
general jurisdiction thereof. certifying that the person subscribing
the transcript was. at the date of the judgment. a justice of the peace
in the county. and that the signature is genuine. Such judgment, pro­
ceedings. and jurisdiction may also he proved hy the justice himself.
on the production of his docket. or hy a copy of the judgment, and
his oral examination as a witness.

Section 4494. lffauner o,Prowlng Other Official Doc­
ument•: Other official documents mav be proved as follows: 
I. Acts of the executive of the State."' hv the records; and of the
United States. by the records of the departments of the United States, 
certified hy the heads of those departments respectively. They may
also he proved by public documents. printed -by the order of the legis­
lature or congress. or either house thereof: 
2. The proceedings of the legislature of this State. or of congress,
hy the journals of those bodies respectively, or either house thereof.
or hy published statutes or resolutions, or by copies certified by the
clerk, or printed by their order : 
3. The acts of the executive. or the proceedings of the legislature
nf another State or Territorv in the same manner; 
4. The acts of the executive, or the nroceedings of the legislature
of a foreign country. by journals published by their authority, M 
commonly received in that country as such. or by a copy certified under
the seal of the countrv or sovereign. or bv a recognition thereof. in
some public act of the ·executive of the United States: 
::;. Acts of a municioal cornoration of this State or of a board or
department thereof. hy a copy, certified hy the legal keener thereof.
or by a printed hook. published hy the authority of such corpora- 
tion: 6. Documents of any other class in this State. by the original. or by 
a copy. certified hy the legal keeper thereof: 
7. Documents of any other class in another State, or Territory, 
by the original. or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper thereof, to­
gether with the certificate of the secretary of state, judge of the su­
preme, district, superior, or county court, or mayor of a city of such 
State or Territory, that the copy is duly certified by the officer having
the legal custody of the original; 
8. Documents of any other class in a foreign country. by the
original. or by a copy. certified by the legal keeper thereof. with a . 
certificate under seal. of the country or sovereign. that the document
is a valid and subsisting document of such country. and that the
copy is duly certified by the officer having the legal custody of the
original-; 
9. Documents in the departments of the United States govern­
ment. by the certificate of the legal custodian thereof. 

Section 449:J. Entrie• In Offl~lal Book11 Prima Faci~
EYldence: Entries in public or other official books or records,
made in the performance of his duty by a nublic officer of this State.
or by another person in the performance of a duty specially enjoined
by law. are prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. 

Section 4496. Certlftcatew ot Purchase~ Evidence of"
Ownenhlp: A certificate of purchase. or of location, of any lands
in this State. issued or made in pursuance of any law of the United
States, is nrirnary evidence that the holder or assignee of such cer­
tificate is the owner of the land described therein: hut this evidence
mav be overcome bv proof that. at the time of the location. or time
of filing a pre-emption claim on which the certificate may have been
issued. the land was in the adverse nossession of the adverse party.
or those under whom he claims, or that the adverse party is holding
the land for mining purposes. 

Section 449'7. Entrle" 1'1ade by Offlcen Prima Faci~
Evidence,: An entrv made bv an officer. or board of officers. or
under the direction and in the· presence of either. in the course of
official duty, is nrima facie evidence of the facts stated in such entry. 

Section 449H. Public R.-~ord ot· Pri..-ate Wrltin«,
EYidenc~: .\ nuhlic record of a private writing may he proved by
the original record. or hy a copy thereof, certified by the legal keeper 
of the record. 

Section 4429 Authorized Abstracts of Title, Prima 
Facie EYidence; An abstract of title to real estate prepared and
certified to by an abstractor duly qualified under the provisions of
Sections 26o and 261 of the Political Code, and authenticated with
certificate of the probate judge, as provided in Section 262, shall be
received in all courts as prima facie evidence of the existence of the
record of deeds, mortgages, and other instruments, conveyances or
liens, affecting the real estate mentioned in such abstract, and that
said record is as described in said abstract of title.

Section 4430. 1'1u•t Furni•h OppNin5 A..Uorney
~opy oC .&hlract: Any party to a civil action who may desire 
to use in · evidence at the trial thereof any abstract of title to real
estate as herein provided, shall furnish to the opposing party or hi­
attorneys a copy of such abstract at least three days before the trial
of said action, and in case such real estate be not in the county where
such trial is to take place, then such copy shall be furnished to the
opposing party or his attorney, to allow a sufficient number of days
such opposing party to proceed by the usual route of travel, to the
county seat of the county where such real estate may be situated and
return to the place of trial in addition to the three days for preparation
above provided for.

Section 4431. Publi~ aad PriYate Seal•, Scroll or 
8il'n: A public seal in this State is a stamp or impression made by
a public officer with an instrument provided by law to attest the exe­
cution of an official or public document, upon the paper or upon any
substance attached to the paper. which is capable of receiving a visi­
ble impression. ..\ private seal may be made in the same manner by
any instrument. or it may be made by the scroll of a pen, or by writ­
ing the word "seal" aginst the signature of the writer. A scroll or
other sign made in another State or Territory or foreign country, and
there recognized as a seal, must be so regarded in this State. 

Section 44ag. Po .. eNlon oC Ad.-ene Party: If the
writing be in the custody of the adverse party, he must first have
reasonable notice to produce it. If he then fail to do so, the con­
tents of the writing may be proved as in case of. its loss. But the
notice to produce it is not necessary where the writing is itself a
notice. or where it has been wrongfully obtained or withheld by the
adverse party. 

Section 4488. Wrltinl'• Called Cor and ln•pected
may be Withheld: Though a writing called for by one party is 
produced by the other, and is thereupon inspected by the party call­
ing for it, he is not obliged to produce it as evidence in the case. 

Section 1434. Writing, how may be Proved: Any
writing may be proved either : 
1. By any one who saw the writing executed; or, 
2. By evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting of the mak­
er; or, 
3. By a subscribing witness. 

Section 1"33. Prooi· Other than by ~ubtlcribiDI'
Wilne••e•: lf the subscribing witness denies or does not recol­ 
lect the execution of the writing, its execution may still be proved
by other evidence. 

Section 1"38. Whea EYideace on Executien not
.Nec.-eHary: Where, however, evidence is given that the party
against w horn the writing is offered, has at any time admitted it!>
execution, no other evidence of the execution need be given, when 
the instrument is one produced from the custody of the adverse party,
and has been acted upon by him as genuine. 

Section 1'137. Enlrie• vt Decedent•, EYideoce in 8pe­
ci.fted Ua•ea: The entries and other writings of a decedent,
made at or near the time of the transaction, and in a position to
know the facts stated therein, may be read as prima facie evidence
of the facts stated therein, in the following cases: 
1. When the entry was made against the interests of the person
making it; 
2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and in the ordi­
nary course of professional conduct; 
3. When it was made in the performance of a duty specially en­
joined by law

8ectien 4438. PriYate Wrilinl'• A.cknowledl'ed and
Certified: Every private writing, except last wills and testa­ 
ments; may be acknowledged or proved and certified in the manner
provided for the acknowledgment or proof of conveyances of real
property, and the certificate of such acknowledgment or proof is
prima facie evidence of the execution of the writing. in the same
manner as if it· were a conveyance of real property. 

Section 44:19. Cepie• o.f' Record A.dmiHible With­
out Further Proo.f': Every instrument conveying or affecting
real property, acknow ledged or proved, and certified, as provided by
law, may, together with the certificate of acknowledgment or proof,
be read in evidence, in an action or proceeding, without further
proof, and a certified copy of the record, of such conveyance or
instrument thus acknowledged or proved, may also be read in evi­
dence, with the like effect as the original, on proof, by affidavit, or
otherwise, that the original is not in the possession or under the con­
trol of the party producing the certified copy. 

Section 444:8. Coatent• of Writing, how Preyed: 
There can be no evidence of the contents of a writing. other than
the writing itself. except in the following cases; 
r. When the original has been lost or destroyed: m which ca -c 
proof of the loss or destruction must first be made; 
2. \Vhen the original is in the possession of the party against
whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce if after reason­ 
able notice ;
3. \Vhen the orivinal is a record or other document in the cus­ 
tody of a public officer;
4. When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy o i 
tody
of a
public
oﬁicer;
the record is made evidence by this Code or other statutes ;
5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other doc­ 
uments, which cannot be examined in court without great loss of
time, and the evidence sought from them is only the general result
of the whole. In cases mentioned in subdivisions three and four, a
copy of the original, or of the record, must be produced; in those
mentioned in subdivisions one and two, either a copy or oral evidence
of the contents. 

Section 4441. WritiDI' .tl.lter~d, who to Explain: 
The party producing a wntmg as genuine which has been altered,
or appears to have been altered after its execution in a part material
to the question in dispute, must account for the appearance or altera­
tion. He may show that the alteration was made by another with­
out his concurrence. or was made with the consent of the parties a f ·
fected by it. or otherwise properly or innocently made, or that the
alteration did not change the meaning or language of the instrument.
If he do that he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise. 

Section 444,,. Books, Map•, ere., how Car Evid~nce: 
Historical works. hooks of science or art. and published maps or
chart, when made by persons indifferent between the parties. are prima
facie evidence of facts of general notoriety and interest

Section 444:3. Perjury and Trea••n, Proet' of: Per­
jury and treason must be proved by testimony oi more than one wit­ 
ness. Treason by the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt
act; and perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness
and corroborating circumstances. 

Section 444:4. Will to be in W ritios: A last will and
testament, except a nuncupative will, is invalid, unless it be in writ­
ing and executed with such formalities as are required by law. When,
thereforee, such a will is to be shown, the instrument itself must be
produced, or secondary evidence of its contents be given. 

Section 4:4"3. What A.creement Deemed Ori5inal: r\ 
promise to answer for the obligation of another, in any of the fol­
lowing cases, is deemed an original obligation of the promisor, and
need not be in writing : 
1. Where the promise is made by one who has received property
or another on an undertaking to apply it pursuant to such promise;
or by one who has received a discharge from an obligation in whole
or in part, in consideration of such promise. 
2. Where the creditor parts with value, or enters into an obliga­
tion, in consideration of the obligations in respect to which the prom­ 
ise is made, in terms or under circumstances such as to render the
party making the promise the principal debtor, and the person in
whose behalf it is made his surety; 
3. Where the promise, being for an antecedent obligation of an­
other, is made upon the consideration that the party receiving it
cancels the antecedent obligation, accepting the new promise as a
substitute therefore, or upon the consideration that the party receiv­
ing it releases the property of another from levy, or his person from
imprisonment under an execution on a judgment obtained upon the
antecedent obligation; or upon a consideration beneficial to the prom­
isor, whether moving from either party to the antecedent obligation
or from another person; 
4. Where a factor undertakes. for a commission. to sell merchan­
dise and guarantee the sale; 
5. Where the holder of an instrument for the payment of money,
upon which a third person is or may become liable to him. transfers
it in payment of a precedent debt of his own. or for a new consider­
ation and in connection with such transfer. enters into a promise re­
specting such instrument. 

Section 4448. Repre•entatioo or Credit by Wrltia«: 
No evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a representation
as to the credit of a third person. unless such representation, or some
memorandum thereof. he in writing. and either subscribed bv or in 
the handwriting of the party to he charged. 

Section 447'. ..l.ffldavlt•, how Take•: An affidavit may l,,­ 
he used to verify a pleading or a paper in a special proceeding, to
prove the service of a summons. notice or other paper in an action or
special proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy. the examination
of a witness. or a stay of proceedings. or upon a motion. and in any
other case expressly permitted by some other provision of this Code. 

Section 4448. Evide•ee of' Pobll~tien, what: Evi­
dence of the publication of a document or notice required by law. or
by an order of the court of judge. to be published in a newspaper.
may be given by the affidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his
foreman or nrincipal clerk. annexed to a copy of the document or
notice. specifying the times when. and the paper· in which the publi­
ration was made.

Section 4449. Wh~re Flied: I f such affidavit he made in
an action or special proceeding nending in a court. it may he filed
with the court or a clerk thereof. If not so made. it may he fi.18'~
with the recorder of the county where the newspaper is nrinted. I n
either case the original affidavit, or a copy thereof. certified by the ,
iudR"C of the court or officer having it in custody, is prima fade evi­
de·1ce of the facts stated therein. 

Section 4438. Affldavtt11, Bel"ere w••• 'rak~a: Ant.·
.. ffi.lavit to be used before anv court. iudze or officer of this State,
may be taken before any ittd~e or clerk of any court. or any justice
of the peace. or notary public in this State. 

Section 44:11. Ir out or St•t~, Rel"ere whom Taken: 
An affidvit taken in another State of Territorv of the United States,
to he used in this State. rnav he taken before ;_ commissioner appoint­ 
PO hv the ~overt\or of thii State. to take affidavits and depositions
in such State or Territorv. or before anv notarv public in such State
or Territory. or before any judge or clerk of a court of record having­ 
a seal.

Section 4439. Ir In ForelJ{n f'eantry, Bel"ore wrhem
Taken: An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be used in this 
State, mar be taken before an embassador, minister, consul, vice .. 
consul or consular agent of the United States, or before any judge
of a court of record having a seal, in such foreign country. 

Section 4433. Certificate of· Ulerk: When an affidavn
is taken before a judge or a court in another State or Territory, or in
a foreign country, the genuineness of the signature of the judge, the
existence of the court, and the fact that such judge is a member there­
of, must be certified by the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof. 

Section 4434. Subpoena ror Wifnes. Defla_.d: The
process hy which the attendance of a witness is required is a sub­ 
pcena. It is a writ of order directed to a person and requiring his
attendance at a particular time and place to testify as a witness. Tt 
may also require him to hring with him any books. documents. or
other things under his control which he is hound by law to produce
in evidence. 

Section 4433. 811bpoena, how· IHoed: The subpoena is
issued as follows : 
I. To require attendance before a court. or at the trial of an
issue therein. it is issued in the name of the court hefore which the
attendance is required. or in which the issue is pending: 
2. To require attendance out of the court. before a judge. justice.
or other officer authorized to administer oaths or take testimony in
any matter under the laws of this State. it is issued by the judge, 
justice, or an~ other officer before whom th~ att~~danc~ is required;
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take
testimony by a court of a foreign country, or of the United States.
or of another State or Territory in the United States, or of any other
district or county within this State. or before any officer or officers
empowered by the laws of the United States to take testimony. n 
may be issued by any judge or justice of the peace in places within
their respective jurisdiction. with like power to enforce attendance; 
and. upon certificate of contumacy to said court, to punish contempt
of their process. as such judge or justice could exercise if the subpoena
directed the attendance of the witness before their courts in a matter
pending therein. 

Section 44:18. ~ubpoena, hew Served: The service of
a subpeena. is made by showing the original and delivering a copy.
or a ticket. containing its substance. to the witness persona11y, or by
leaving a copy with some suitable person at the place of his abode.
giving or offering to him at the same time, if demanded by him. the
fees to which he is entitled for travel to and from the place designated.
and one day's attendance there. The service must be made so as to al­
low the witness a reasonable time for preparation and travel to the
place of attendance. Such service may be made by any person.

Section 44:17. Witnn• for ,..tate, Payment •' Ff'N 
••1 Required: The attorney general or any prosecuting attorney
is authorized to cause subneenas to be issued and compel the attend­
ance of witnesses on behalf of the state. without paying or tendering
fees in advance to any officers or witnesses. and any witness failing or
neglecting to attend. after being served with a subpoena may he
proceeded against and shall be liable in the same manner as provided by
Jaw in other cases when fees have been tendered or paid. 

Section 4US. Row, If' Witne•• be C,oneealed,: If <i 
witness is concealed in a building or vessel. so as to prevent the ser­
vice of a subpoena upon him. any court or judge. or any officer issuing ·
the subpoena. may. unon nroof by affidavit of the concealment. and
of the materialitv of the witness. make an order that the sheriff of the
county serve the subprrna, and the sheriff must serve it accordingly.
and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel where the
witness is concealed. 

Section 44:59. When WltneH not C,0111pelled to
A.Uend: A witness is not obliged to attend as a witness before
any court. judge. justice. or any other officer. out of the county in
which he resides. unless the distance he less than thirtv miles from 
his place of residence to the place of trial. 

Section 4480. Disobedience, how P11nh1hed: Disobe­ 
dience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to answer as a wit- 
ness, or to subscribe an affidavit or .leposition when required, may 
be punished as a contempt by the court or officer issuing the sub­
poena or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if the witness be a
party, his complaint or answer may be stricken out. 

Section 4481. ForCeUure ThereCor : A witness disobey­
ing a subpoena also forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of oue
hundred dollars, and all damages which he may sustain by the fail­
ure of the witness to attend which forfeiture and damages may be
recovered in a civil action. 

Section 4489. Warrant11 may l••ue to Bring Wit­
ne••, wh~n: In case of failure of ,; witness to attend, · the cour: 
or officer issuing the subpoena. upon proof of the service thereof.
and of the failure of the witness. may issue a warrant to the sheriff of
the county to arrest the witness and bring him before the court or 
officer where his attendance was required. 

Section 4488. Content• oC Warrant: Every warrant of
commitment. issued by a court or officer pursuant to this Chapter,
must specify therein particularly. the cause of the. commitment, and
if it he for refusing to answer a question. such question must be stated
in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest or commit a witness
pursuant to this Chapter. must be directed to the sheriff of the county
where the witness may he. and must be executed hy -hirn in the same
manner as process issued hy the district court. 

Section 4484. IC Wttne.• be lmprh1ont-d, how·
Brou.ht: If the witness he a prisoner, confined in a jail or prison
within this State. an order for his examination in the prison upon
deposition. or for his temporary removal and production before a 
court or officer for the purpose of being orally examined, may he 
made as follows : 
I. By the court itself in which the action or special proceeding :~
pending. unless it be a justice's court; 
2. By a justice of the supreme court. judge of the district court
or probate judge of the county where the action or proceeding is
pending. if pending before a justice's court. or before a judge or other
person out of court. 

Section 4483. On who8e Motion: Such order can onlv 
be made on the motion of a party. upon affidavit showing the nature
of the action or proceeding. the testimony expected from the wit­
ness, and its materiality. 

Section 4488. How E1amin e d: Tf the witness he im­ 
prisoned in the county where the action or proceeding is pending, his
production may be required. In all other cases his examination,
when allowed, must be taken upon deposition. 

Section 4487. Witn«aM• to Attend when S11bpoenaed: 
. \ witness, sen-eel with a subpoena. must attend at the time appoint­
ed. with any papers under his control. required by the subpeena, and
answer a11 pertinent and legal questions, and. unless sooner dis­ 
charged. must remain until the testimony is closed. 

Section 448S. Penons Present Compelled to Testify: 
A person present in court, or before a judicial officer. may be re­
quired to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon 
a subpoena issued by such court or officer. 

Section 4489. WitneH Bo11nd to A..n8w«ar Q11~stion11:
A witness must answer questions legal and pertinent to the matter
in issue. though his answer my establish a claim against himself;
hut he need not give an answer which will have a tendency to sub­
ject him to punishment for a felony: nor need he give an answer
which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character. unless 
it he the verv fact in issue. or to a fact from which the fact in issue
would be presumed. nut a witness must answer as to the fact of his 
previous conviction for felony. 

Section 4470. Protecfed rrom ArrHt, when~ Every
person who has been, in good faith. served with a subpoena to at­
tend as a witness before a court. judge. commissioner. referee. or
other person, in a case where the disobedience of the witness may be
punished as a contempt, is exonerated from arrest in a civil action.
while going to the nlace of attendance. necessarily remaining there
and returning therefrom. 

Section 4471. Arrest Void, Contem1,1 or Co11r1. 
DalD&I'~: The arrest nf a witness. contrarv to the preceding- Sec­
tion. is void. and. when willfullv made. is a contempt of the court: 
• and the person making- it is responsible to the witness arrested for
double the amount of .the darnazes which may he assessed · against
him. and is also liable to an action at the suit of the party serving­
the witness with the subpoena. for the damages sustained by him in 
consequence of the arrest. 

Section 4479. To n1akf' Affidavit u· Arrewtf'd: An 
officer is not liable to the party for making the arrest in ignorance 
of the facts creating the exoneration. but is liable for any subse­
quent detention of the party. if such party claim the exemption.
and make an affidavit stating: 
I. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a wit­
ness before a court, officer. or other person. specifying the same, the
place of attendance. and the action or proceeding in which the sub 
poena was issued; and, 
2. That he has not thus been served by his own procurement. with
the intention of avoiding an arrest; 
3. That he is at the time going to the place of attendance. or re­
turning therefrom. or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena.
The affidavit may be taken by the officer. and exonerates him from
liability for discharging the witness when arrested. 

Section t14'73. Court to Di•~harge Witness from
Arrnt: The court or officer issuing the subpoena. and the court
or officer before whom the attendance is required. may discharge' the
witness from an arrest made in violation of the provisions of this Chap­
ter. If the court have adjourned before the arrest, or before applica­
tion foi the discharge. a judge of the court or a probate judge may 
grant the discharge. 

Section 4474. Fee• of WUneH«a• In Di•trid Court: 
Witnesses in civil actions in the district court. or before any referee
or commissioner thereof. are entitled to receive three dollars per day
fnr each day's actual attendance, and twenty-five cents per mile one
way; to be taxed as costs against the losing party. 

Section 4473. Fee• oC, in Probate and Juwtke•'
Court8: Witnesses in civil actions in the probate and justices'
courts are entitled to receive two dollars per day for each day's actual
attendance. and twenty-five cents per mile one way: to be taxed against
the losing party. 

Section 4476. Fees of· lntt"rprete1•8: Interpreters are
entitled to receive three dollars per day for each clay's actual attend­ 
ance upon a court of justice upcler a suhp ena. and twenty-five cents
per mile one way for each mile actually traveled. to he taxed as costs 
in civil actions. and in criminal actions to he paid out of the county
treasury on the certificate of the clerk. j.rdge, or magistrate, but the
amount may he included in the costs taxed against a defendant 11po11 
conviction.

Section 4477. Certain omcf'r8 A.uthorizf'd 10 A.dmin­
i•ter Oa1h•: Every court. every judge. or clerk of any court,
every justice and every notary public, the secretary of the State and 
every officer or person authorized to take testimony in any action
or proceeding. or to decide upon evidence, has power to administer
oaths or affirmations. 

Section 447S. Form of' Ordinary Oath to wun .... : 
An oath or affirmation in an action or proceeding. may be adminis­
tered as follows. the person who swears or affirms. expressing his
assent when addressed. in the following form: 
"You do solemnly swear ( or affirm. as the case may be), that the
evidence you sha11 give in the issue ( or matter), pending between
.............. and. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . shall be the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God." 

Section 4479. Form may be Varied to 811it D~lier: 
Whenever the court hefore which a person is offered as a witness is
satisfied that he has a peculiar mode of swearing, connected with or 
in addition to the usual form of administration. which. in his opinion.
is more sole1lm or obligatory. the court may. in its discretion adopt 
that mode.

Section 44~0. •~~uliar Cf're1nenittt11: When a person i-.
sworn who believes in any other than the Christian religion, lf'e ma~· 
he sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there
he any such.

Section 44SI. Penonw who Pr~f'er may A.mrm: Any
person who desires it may. at his option. instead of laking an oath, 
make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting when act .. 
dressed, in the following form : "You do solemnly affirm ( or declare ),
that." etc., as above provided. 

Section 448~. Wi1nf'He8 may be Eu~h1ded, 11·hen: 
If either party requires it. the judge may exclude from the court
room any witness of the adverse party. not at the time under ex­
amination. so that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesse-, 

Section 4483. Dlrf'ct and C)roH-Examina1ion Defined: The examination of a witness hy the party producing him
is denominated the direct examination: the examination of the same
witness. by the adverse party. the cross-examination. The direct ex­
amination must he completed before the cross-examination begins.
unless the court otherwise direct. 

Section 4484. Leading Quet1Clon• Defln~d: A question
which suggests to the witness the answer which the examining party 
desires is denominated a leading or suggestive question. On a direct
examination. leading questions are not allowed. except in the sound
discretion of the court. under special circumstances. making it ap­
pear that the interests of justice require it.

Section 44S3. Witnf't11t1 may Rt-Crf',ich lfft-.Aory rrona
~etf's: A witness is allowed tn refresh his memory respecting ,.
fact. hv anvthimr written hv himself. or under his direction. at the
time ,;.hen. the i:1ct c1rru1-r~d. or inuuerliatelv thereafter. or at an.
c,ther time w hcn the i:irt was fresh in his memorv, and he knew th~t
the':,;ame ,, ;1, c(),-r~·rtl~· :--t:1tecl in the writing·. Jiut in such case the 
\\'riting must lie rrc «lured. and may he seen hy the adverse party. who 
1nay. if he rhc H ,.:e. rrc1~s-e:'\ami11e the w it ness upon it. amt may read it 
tn the jury. ~'' ;'1~(1 a wit ncs-, may testify from such a writing. thoug-h
he retain n() recollection of the particular facts. hut such evidence must
hr received with caution. 

Section 4488. Rule 01· Cro,s-Examinatien: The or)- 
posite party may cross-examine the witness as to any facts stated ~i1
his direct examination or connected therewith, and in so doing may
put leading questions ; but if he examine him as to other matters such
examination is to be subject to the same rules as a direct examination. 

Section 448'7. W itn~,.,, how Exanaiaed: A witness
once examined cannot be re-examined as to the same matter without
leave of court. but he may be re-examined as to any new matter upon
which he has been examined by the adverse party. And after the ex­
aminations on both sides are once concluded, the witness cannot oe 
recalled without leave of the court. Leave is granted or withheld, in
the exercise of a sound discretion. 

Section 44SS. WrUin&" Shewn Wi1neH, ln•p~ction
by Oppesit~ Party: \\'henen~r a writing is shown to a witness, 
it may he inspected hy the opposite party, and if proved by the wit- 
ness, must be read to the jury before' his testimony is closed, or it
cannot be read except on recalling the witness. 

Section 44S9. Party Prododng not A.llowed to Im­ 
peach: The party producing a witness, is not allowed to impeach
his credit by evidence of bad character, but he may contradict him
by other evidence, and may also show that he has made at other times,
statements inconsistent with his present testimony.

Section 4490. How Impeached: A witness may be im­
peached by the party against whom he was called, by contradictory
evidence, or by evidence that his general reputation for truth, hon­ 
esty, or integrity is bad, but not by evidence of particular wrongful
acts, except that it may be shown by the examination of the witness,
or the record of the judgment, that he had been convicted of a felony. 

Section 4491. Impeachment by lucon•i•tent 81ate­
meot1t: .A witness may also be impeached by evidence, that he has 
made, at other times, statements inconsistent with his present testi­
mony; but before this can be done, the statements must be related
to him, with the circumstances of times, places. and persons present.
and he must be asked whether he made such statements, and if Sd, 
allowed to explain them. If the statements he in writing, they must be 
shown to the witness before anv question is put to him concerning
them. 

Section 449g. Uharacter: Evidence of the good character
of a party is not admissible in a civil action, nor of a witness in any
action, until the character of such party or witness had been im­
peached. or unless the issue involves his character. 

Sectien 4493. Teeti•ony 111ay be Taken on Order of
Judge: In all actions in the district court which are triable by the 
court or in which a jury is waived, where the parties are numerous
and the convenience of the witnesses and the ends of justice would bl!
promoted thereby. the court, or the judge thereof at chambers, may
at any time after the service is complete and the time for appearance
has expired. order testimony taken at such time and place as shall be
designated in such order, before the ju<lge of said court or before a
referee appointed hy said court or the judge thereof. or before a special
judge agreed upon by the parties to the action. 

Section 4494. Notice to Mailed aad Publi•hed: 
A copy of said order. designating the time place for taking
such testimony shall he mailed by the clerk to each of the attorneys
who shall have appeared in the action, and shaJl be published for two
consecutive weeks in some newspaper to be designated in such order. 

Section 149:1. Taking oC, may be Ue•tlaued: Uo•t•: 
The taking of testimony may he continued from day to day an<l
adjourned by order of the jnclge of the court or by the referee or spe cial judge before whom the testimony shall be taken, and the judge 
of said court shall make such order as he may deem proper as LJ 
payment of costs incurred in taking and transcribing such testimony. 

Section 4496. Te.timony to be Tran•cribed; Objec­ 
t i o .. : The testimony so taken shall be transcribed by the court
reporter and transmitted, without findings, to the clerk of the court of
the county where said action is perxling, and shall be received in court
as evidence in said action with the same force and effect as if taken
upon a trial of said cause in open court. All objections made at the
time as to the relevancy or admissibility of evidence shall be noted,
~nd the same may he renewed in the district court upon the final hear­ 
mg ..

Section 4497. Deposition•, B~Core Who1n Take.,: 
Depositions of witnesses, taken within or without the State, may he
taken according to the regulations hereinafter provided, before any
judge. justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or recorder of a cit v, 
clerk of a court of record, or commissioner appointed hy the court tu
take depositions; but depositions shall not be taken before any per­
son or the kin of any person interested in the action. 

Section 4498. When may be Taken: In all actions, 
depositions may be taken by either party in vacation or term time:
at any time after service of summons. without order of court thercf ir. 

Section 4499. Order .tor '.rakiq Depe•ltion•: In ail
actions, the court may order the taking of depositions, whenever
deemed necessary tu determine the rights of the parties or to expe­
dite the trial of causes; and may if necessary for that purpose, order
a continuance until the next term. 

Section 4."100. Uemmi.,•ion IJanecnHry witlai11 United 
!!ltatn: When a. deposition is to be taken within or without the
State, but within the United States, no commission shall be neces­ 
sary for taking the deposition. When taken out of the United States,
the clerk shall upon the request of the party taking the deposition
issue a commission to the officer or commissioner designated to take
the deposition. !\ o order of the court or affida vit shall be necessary
to authorize the issuing of the commission. 

Section 1301. ~otice·. •peciacati••• Required: _ \ 
party wishing to take depositions shall give notice to the adverse
party, if there be only one person; if there be several, to any one of
them who is a real party in interest, his agent or attorney. Such
notice shall specify: 
FIRST. The cause or matter in which the deposition is to be used.
SECOND. The court or tribunal in -which the trial is to be had.
THIRD. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the names 
of the witnesses. 

Section 1309. Time A.llotred A.dl'ene Party: The
adverse party shall be allowed one day for each twenty miles re­ 
quired to be traveled from his usual place of abode to the place of 
taking the deposition by the ordinary route of travel, not exceeding,
however, thirty days in all. If served on an attorney or agent ·i. 
reasonable time shall be allowed him to communicate the same to 
the party not exceeding ten days in all.

Section 4503. !!ferl'ice oa· Notice: The notice may be 
served in the same manner, and by any person authorized to serve ~.
subpoena for a witness. If neither the party nor his agent or at­
torney reside in the. State, the notice may be filed in the clerk's of­
fice. and be published three weeks successively in the county in which
the suit is pending and a copy thereof mailed to each party or his
attorney at his last known address. and personal service without the
State shall be equivalent to filing- such notice with the clerk and pub- 
• lication as herein provided. 

Section 4304. Postpoue111ent: \\'hen notice is given fix­
ing the time of taking· any deposition on a day in term time. the
court. may if in session. or the judge thereof in vacation on notice 
given by the adverse party of the time and place of hearing the mo­
tion, fix another day for such taking, and the court on the hearing
of such motion, may fix the time for such taking, from which there
shall be no appeal. 

Section 4303. Co•ts, t;au,dag IJnneee•eary .&ttend­
aaee: When a party shall, in response to a notice to take deposi­
tions orally, attend at the time and place, by himself or attorney and 
the deposition shall not be taken, he shall upon notice and affidavit
of the facts have judgment against the party at whose instance the
notice was given, for two dollars per day for each day he may at­
tend under the notice and six cents per mile for the distance neces­
saril y traveled, in going to and returning from the place fixed for
taking depositions unless it shall be shown that the failure to take
such depositions did not result from the negligence or fault of the
party giving the notice, or had previously notified the opposite party 
that he could not attend such taking. 

Section 4308. Uompelling WUneHe• Attendance: 
The officer taking the deposition shall have power to summon and
compel the attendance of witnesses. In case of the refusal of a wit­
nes to attend or testify, such fact shall be reported by the officer to 
any probate or district court of the county, or the judge thereof and
such court or judge shall order such witness to attend and testify; and
on the failure or refusal to obey such order, such witness shall }J(! 
dealt with as for a contempt. 

Section 4307. WUneHel!J eut oC Ueunty: A witness is
not obliged to attend for examination upon a deposition in any other
county than that of his residence, but may consent to do so. 

Section 4308. Oath• and Examination•: The depo­
nent shall first be sworn by the officer to testify to the truth, the whole
truth. and nothing hut the truth relating to the cause or matter for
which the deposition is to be taken; and he shall then be examined 
hy the party producing him, and then by the adverse party, and by 
the officer or parties afterwards if they see cause. 

Section 4309. Taking and Sub•eribiD&': The deposi­
tion shall be written down by the officer, or by the deponent, or by 
some disinterested person, in the presence and under the direction of
. the officer; and after the same has been carefully read to or by the 
deponent. it shall be subscribed by him.

Section 4310. 8bjeetion111: Objections to the competency 
of a deponent or to the propriety "f any question proposed to him
or answers given by him, may be made at the time of taking his
deposition, or in court whether made at the taking of the deposition
or not. 

Section 4511. ()ertUlcate, 1'.,act• Required, l!itatecl: 
The officer shall annex his certificate to the deposition stating the
following facts:
FIRST. That the deponent was sworn according to law. 
S.E~OND. By whom the deposition was written, and if written by 
the deponent or some disinterested person; that it was written in
the presence and under the direction of the officer. 
THIRD. Whether or not the adverse party attended.
FouRTH. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the 
hours between which the same was taken. And the officer shall sign
and attest the certificate, and seal the same, if he have a seal of office.

Section 31~. A.uthenticatins. t;eP11Di••ion•, tHllclal
Vllaracter: \Vhen the commission contains the name of the officer 
before whom the deposition is to be taken his attestation, officially
certifying the same, shall be sufficient; but if the commission do not
specify the name of the officer, and he have no official seal, his cer­
tificate shall be authenticated by the certificate and seal of the clerk
or prothonotary of any court of record of the county in which the
officer exercises the duties of his office.

Section 4313. li!Jeali•I', Directins and lodonins: 
The officer taking the deposition shall seal up the same in a secure
envelope, and direct the same to the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending indorsing upon the envelope the names of the par­
ties and of the witnesses whose depositions are inclosed.

Section 4314. Time ot FiliDI': Every deposition intended
to be read in evidence must be filed in the court at least one day
before the time at which the cause in which the deposition is to be 
used stands on the docket for trial; or. if filed afterward and claimed
to be used on the trial, the adverse party shall be entitled to a contin­
uance, at the cost of the party filing the deposition upon showing
good cause by affidavit.

Section 1313. P11blication: Depositions. after being filed.
may be published by the clerk. at the request of either party after
giving the other. his agent or attorney, reasonable notice of the time
of publication or they may he published by order of the court on mo­ 
t ion of either party. 

Section 4318. Under Wlaat UircuoHtaace• IJ•ed: 
They may be used in the trial of all issues, in any action in the fol­
lowing cases: 
FIRST When the witness does not reside in the county, or when
he resides in a county adjoining and more than thirty miles from
place of trial, or is absent from the State. 
SECOND. When the deponent is so aged, infirm, or sick as not to 
be able to attend the court or place of trial, or is dead. 
THIRD. When the depositions have been taken by agreement of 
parties, or by the order of the court trying the cause. 
FouRTH. When the deponent is a State or county officer, or judge,
or a practicing physician, or attorney-at-law, and the trial is to be
had in any county in which the deponent does not reside. In either
of the foregoing cases the attendance of the witness cannot be en forced. 

Section 431 '1. Witnes.e• Pre•ent; Depoaitien ln­
cempetent: No deposition shall be read in evidence on the trial
of a cause, if at that time the witness is produced in court, unless the
deposition has been taken by the agreement of the parties, or by the 
order of the court. 

Section 43lS. InadmiHible 1Jnle88 Exi•tiDI' Cau•e : 
When a deposition is offered to be read in evidence, it must appear
to the satisfaction of the court that the cause for taking and reading 
it still exists. 

Section 4:119. Di•miHal, ~e11· Action: When an ac­
tion has heen dismissed and another action has been commenced for
the same cause the deposition taken in the first action may be used in
the second or any other action between the parties, or their assignees
or representatives for the same cause; but it must appear that the
depositions have been duly filed in the court where the previous cause
was pending. and have remained on file from the time the action was
dismissed until the time at which it was proposed to use them. 

Section 43'20. Objection; w·he11 _WaiYed: Supprn­
tdng De1•o•ltieu: All objections to the validity of any deposi­
tion or. its admissibility in evidence. shall he made before entering
upon the trial. not afterward. But any deposition after the com­
mencement of trial may he suppressed. if any matter which is not
disclosed in the deposition appears which is sufficient to authorize
such suppression. 

Section 43~1. 1J11in1porCaut Deviation Dl•rf'«ard~d: 
. \n unimportant deviation from any direction relative to taking depo- 
sitions sha11 not cause any deposition to he excluded where no sub­
stantial prejudice would be done to the opposite party. 

Section 4522.
Taking
upon
Written
Interrogatories:
Sfftlon 43gg. Takins upon Wrlt1~n ln1f!rro«a1eri~•: 
The
The deposition may be taken upon written interrogatories as follows:
The party desiring to take such deposition shall serve ~tpon the on- ·
posite party notice of his intention together with a copy of the in­
terrogatories which he intends to propound and file such notice and
interrogatories with the c1erk. The opposite party shall file with the
clerk within five <lays thereafter such cross-interrogatories as he <le­
sires to propound and re-examine interrogatories served and filed
within five davs thereafter. The clerk shall then issue to some officer.
by him to be. selected. authorized to take depositions, a commission
with the interrogatories. cross-interrogatories. and re-exarninining
interrogatories annexed thereto. requiring- him to cause the
witness to come before him at such time and place as he
may appoint. and to faith folly take his deposition. upon
the questions annexed to the commission. and thereupon to
make return to the court of his doings under such commission with­
out delav, The officer shall first swear or affirm the witness that he
will make a true. full and nerfect answer to the interrogatories to he
propounded to him: amt then he shall nropound the annexed to the
commission in their order and accuratelv write the answers of the
witness to such. He shall then read c~{refttllv to the witness such 
interrogatories and his answers thereto. amt correct the answer= , . -;
the witness mnv desire and then the witness sha 11 sitrn such rleno­ 
sition. The officer sh:111 annex to the rlenosition his certificate. show­
ing- snecificallv a fulfillment of each of the rennirements of this Sec­
tion: and shall then enclose the rlenosition with the commission. 111terrnzntories and answers securelv sealed. and transmit the same ~cl­
dressed to the clerk of the court. in which the suit is nendinz with
the title of the cause endorsed thereon : Provided, lunocrcr. That ,cl­
ditiona 1 oral testirnonv mav he adduced hv either nartv, unon not 
less than three davs n~ticP to the onr'lo<;ite nartv. and the. commission
and officer's certificate shall he modified accordingly.

Section 4:199. Dt'po1dtlen i• thit11 ~tat_. to bf' 1T•f'd in 
Other !liltate111: Anv party to an action or special proceeding- in ,1 
court. or before a jucig-e of another State or Territorv. rnav obtain the
testimonv of a witness residing- in this State to he used in. such action 
or nroceedinz. in the cases mentioned in the next two sections.

Section 4394. Row to Proc11r~ Witnt-fll~ upon Com- 
1nl•11den: Tf a commission to take St1Ch testimonv has heen issued
from the court nr jn<lg-e before whom such action. or proceeding is
pending, on producing the commission to a district or probate judge,
with an affidavit satisfactory to him of the materiality of the testi­
mony. he may issue a subpoena to the witness, requiring him to ap­
pear and testify before the commissioner named in the commission,
at a specified time and place. 

Section 193. Hew, if' no CommlHion: If a com­
. mission has not been issued. and it appears to a district or probate
judge. or justice of the peace. by affidavit satisfactory to him: 
I. That the testimony of the witness is material to either party: 
2. That a commission to take the testimony of such witness has
not been issued ;
· 3. That according to the law of the State or Territory where the
action or special proceeding is pending. the deposition of a witness
taken under such circumstances. and hefore such judge or justice.
will he received in the action or proceeding :-He must issue his sub­
poena. requiring the witness to appear and testify before him at a
specified time and place.

Section 4398. Depo9itien11, how Taken: Upon the ap­
pearance of the witness, the judge or justice must cause his testimony
to he taken in writing. and must certify and transmit the same to the
court or judge hefore whom the action or proceeding is pending. in 
such manner as the law of that state or territory requires. 

Section 4:19'7. Prowieion• al1110 A.pply WUhin thi•
State: The provisions of section 45o6 shall extend to all officers
and commissioners authorized to take depositions in this state to ht! 
read in the courts of other states or countries. 

Section 4:1~8. Offer in WrUins Equl..-alenC Co Tfln•
der whea: An offer in writing to pay a particular sum of money. 
or to deliver a written instrument or specific personal property. is. if
not accepted. equivalent to the actual production and tender of the
money. instrument, or property. 

Section 4399. Debtor tna)· Demand Writt~o Reeeipt: 
Whoever pays money. or delivers an instrument or property whether
in performance of an obligation or otherwise. is entitled to a receipt
therefore from the person to whom tlJ& payment or delivery is made.
and may demand a proper signature • such receipt as a condition of 
the payment or delivery. 

Section 4380. EYidenee may be Perpetuated: The
testimony of a witness may be taken and perpetuated as provided in 
this chapter. 

Section 4:131. Manner oC A ppll~•1ion: The applicant
must produce to a district judge. or to a probate judge. a petition 
verified by the oath of the applicant, stating: 
I. That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court
in this state. and. in such case, the names of the persons whom 11~ 
expects will be adverse parties: or. 
2. That the proof of some fact is necessary to perfect the title to
property in which he is interested. or to estahlish marriage, descent.
heirship. or any other matter which it may hereafter become mate­
rial to establish. though no suit may at the time be anticipated, or. if
anticipated, he may not know the parties to such suit: and, 
3. The name of the witness to he examined. his place of rest­
dence. and a general outline of the facts expected to be proved.
The judge to whom such petition is presented must make an order
allowing the examination and designating the officer hefore whom
the same must he taken. amt prescribing the notice to be given,
which notice. if the parties expectant are known and reside in this
state. must he nersonallv served. and if unknown. such notice must
he served on the recorder of the county where the property to be
affected by the evidence is situated. or the judge making the order 
resides, as may be directed by him and by publication thereof iq 
some newspaper, to he designated by the judge, for the same period
required for the publication of summons. The judge must also des­
ignate in his order, the recorder of the county to whom the deposi­
tions must be returned when tasn. 

Section 4339. A.ppeintee •f Judl'e. A.11thority or: 
The person appointed hy the judge to take the depositions is author­
ized. if a resident of this state. on receiving a copy of the order of
the judge. and of the notice prescribed in the last section. with proof
of its persona] service or publication: or. if a resident without the
state. on receiving the commission mentioned in the next section.
with proof of 1ike service of publication of the notice: to take the
deposition of the witness named in the order of the judge, or in the
commission. or. if more than one witness is thus named, of such .rf 
them as appear before him. at the time designated. and the taking of
the same may he continued from time to time. 

Section 438~. Manner et' Taking Depe,sltlon : The
examination must he hy question and answer. and if the testimony i..: 
to he taken in another state or territorv. it must he taken upon 1 
commission. to he issued by the iudze. allowing the examination.
under the seal of the court of which he is judze. and upon interroga­ 
tories. to be settled in the same manner as in cases of depositions
taken under commission in nenrling actions. unless the parties ex­
pectant. if known. otherwise azree. If such parties are unknown.
notice of the settlement of the interrogatories shall he nuhlished in
some newspaper for such time as the iudrre rnav designate. The
deposition. when comnleterl. must he carefullv read to and subscribed
hv the witness. then Certified hv the officer Or person taking the 
same, and shall then he sea led u~ and delivered or transmitted to the
recorder of the county desiznated in the order of the indge allowing­
the examination. who shall file the same when received. The judze
allowing- the examination shall file with the recorder the order for
the examination. the Petition on which the same was g-ranted. with 
proof of service of the order and notice. 

Section 4:134. Pap~"' Fil«ad.. Prima Fact.- E,·ldt-n«-~: 
The petition and order. and naners filed hv the iudrre. as nrovided in
the last section. or ::t certified conv thereof. are. nrirna facie evidence
of the facts stated therein to sho"·. compliance with the provisions of 
this chapter. 

Section 4:19:1. Whf"n E~idf"n~f" may M Prod11t-f"fl: 
If a trial he had between the parties named in the petition as parties
expectant. or their successors in interest. or between any narties
wherein it mav he material to establish the facts which such deposi­
tions prove. o~ tend to prove, upon proof nf the death. or insanity .-if
the witness. or that they cannot be found, or are unable, by reason 
of age, or other infirmity, to give their testimony, the depositions 'or
copies thereof may be used by either party, subject to all legal objec­
tions; but if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to
the form of an interrogatory can be made at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the examination. 

Section 4:188. Effect oC Depo•ition: The deposition so
taken and read in evidence has the same effect as the oral testimony
of the witness, and no other, and every objection to the witness, or
to the relevancy of any question put to him, or of any answer given
by him, may be made in the same manner as if he were examined orally
at the trial. 

Section 4:187. Perpetuatinl' Tntimony: Whenever any
person shall make affidavit before any probate or district court or
judge thereof. or the clerk of the court. that such person expects to be
made a party in any action thereafter to be commenced, and that the
testimony of the affiant. or any other person, whether residing with­
in or without the state to be named in the affidavit. is material and
necessary to the prosecution or defense thereof, the court or officer
before whom the affidavit is made shall order notice as provided by
section 4501 to be given to the party expected to be adverse to the
applicant. or his attorney that on the day and at · the place in such
notice to be expressed. the witness will be examined before such· officer
as shall be specified in the order. 

Section 4:JSS. 1flann_.r oC Takln,r.: Upon proof that the
notice has been given. either by personal service or by advertisement
as provided by section 4~03 being- made to the officer authorized to 
take the testimony he shall proceed to take and certify. and seal up.
and return the deposition according to the rules provided for other
depositions in this title. 

Section 4389. C,~rtltytn.-, s ... nn.- and Fllll•c: Everv
denosition. so taken and certified shall. in due course be filed in the 
office of the clerk of the proper court of the countv where the subject
matter of such expected suit may be situated. The clerk shall file
such deposition. and it shall remain sealed until after commencement
of such expected action and until published as provided by section 
4667. 

Section 4340. Publl«-aflon, Entry upon C,oorf'• Jle­
~•rd•: Anv deposition which has heretofore been taken and filed 
for the purpose of perpetuating in pursuance of any existing or for­ 
mer statutes of this state. as well as any deposition which may here­
after be taken and filed to perpetuate testimony may, at any time,
either before or after the commencement of the action in anticipa- 
tion of which such deposition may have been taken be published by
order of the court in the office of whose clerk the same may be filed.
on the motion of any person or party interested in the preservation of
the testimony and such deposition with all the accompanying affi­ 
davits, orders, notices, and other documents shall be directed by such
court to be entered of record in the order book of such court, at the
cost of the party making such motion and such record shall contain
a statement or recital of the date of the filing of such deposition. 

Section 4541. 1J•l•s ~cord : The record of any deposi­
tion recorded under the provisions of the last section, and copies of
such record, duly certified, may be used as evidence whenever and 
wherever the original deposition might be used.

Section 4:3-19. Whea A.dml••lfile: Upon the proof of
death, insanity, or absence from the state of such witness, or dis­ 
tant more than thirty miles from the place of trial or inability by
reason of age or infirmity to attend. the deposition, or a certified
copy thereof by the clerk of the court where the same is filed. sball 
be admitted as evidence in any court in this state. in any cause be­
tween the parties named in the affidavit or in any cause between per­ 
sons claiming under either of said parties and shall have like effect 
as if the witness had been persona11y present, and ~ven oral testi­
mony therein, saving the right of exception in all cases on account of
the incompetency of the witness or any part of the testimony contained 
in the deposition. 

