CHANCERY CODE. 
(i.) GENERAL ACT RELATIVE TO Cll...\.YCERY PROCEEDIYGS.
[R6o. Stat. 1846, Chap. XXI.] • 
SECTION I. The several circuit courts of this state, in all causes
of which they may Imm jurisdiction as courts of chancery, shall 
have power to proceed therein according to the mode hereinafter 
'b d d J • . • 1 h t.: I 
prescri e ; an w iere no provunon is mar e y t111s c iapter, 
according to the general usage and practice of courts of equity,
or agreeably to such rules as may be established by the said courts
in that behalf. 
SEC. 2. The mode of commencing snits in equity, shall he by
fili bill ' c. } l ·- f 1 l · . l 1. 
mg a , sett.mg fort 1 t ie nature o t re comp amt, wit 1 t 1~ 
clerk of the circuit court of the county, within whoso jurisdiction
the defendants, or the major part of them, if inhabitants of this 
state, reside; or if the suit may affect real estate in the county
where the same or greater part thereof shall he situated : If the 
defendants are all non-residents, then with the clerk of the circuit.
court of any county. Bills for injunctions to stay proceedings at 
law, shall be filed in the office of the circuit court of the county in
which the record of the proceedings had, shall be. 
SEc. 3. In suits for the payment or ri~covery of money, set-offs
shall be allowed in the same manner, and with the like effect, as in 
actions at law.
SEc. 4. Suits in chancery may be commenced and prosecuted 
by infants, either by guardian or next friend. 
8.Ec. 5. Upon the filing of every bill as aforesaid, the clerk of
the court aforesaid shall thereupon issue a summons directed to 
the sheriff of the county in which the defendant resides, if the
defendant be a resident of this state, requiring him to appear, and 
answer the bill on the return day of the summons ; and where
there arc several defendants residing in different counties, a sepa­
rate summons shall be issued to each county, including all the
defendants, residing therein. 
SEc. 6. Every summons shall be tested in the name of the clerk 
of the court out of which it may issue· shall hear the seal of the 
• . , • 
court and the signature of its clerk ; shall be dated of the day it
issues, and he made returnable to the next term of the court,
after the date thereof, unless the suit be brought within ten days
immediately preceding any term, in which case the summons shall 
be returnable to the next term thereafter. 
SEc. 7. Service of summons shall be made by delivering a copy 
th
f h d 
J:> d 1 • 1 h' al 1 f 
ereo to t e eren ant, or eavmg sue 1 copy at 1s usu p ace o
sbode, with some white person of the family of the age of ten 
years or UJlWar<l, and informing such person of the contents
thereof, w1uch service shall be at least ten days befor.e the return
day of such summons. 
SEc. 8. Whenever any complainant shall file in the office of the
clerk of the court in which his snit is pending, an affidavit showing 
that any defendant resides or hath gone out of this state, or on due 
inquiry cannot be found, or is concealed within this state, so that
process cannot be served upon him, tho clerk shall cause publication to be made in some newspaper printed in his county, and if 
there be no newspaper published in his county, then in a newspaper published in this state, containing notice of the pendency of
such suit, the names of the parties thereto, the title of' the court,
and the time and place of the return of summons in the case ; such
publication to he made for four successive weeks, the first of which
shall be at leu&. sixty days before the return day of such summons.
But this proceeding shall not dispense with the usual exertion on
the part of the sheriff, to serve the summons. 
SEC. 9. If sixty days shall not intervene between filing such
affidavit and the return day of the summons, and the summons
shall not be served, the cause shall be continued to the next term,
If sixty days shall intervene, as aforesaid, and if service of process
shall be made, and the defendant shall not apJlear on the return 
day of the summons, the bill may be taken for confessed. 
SEc. 10. If, for want of due publication or service, the cause
shall be continued, then the same proceedings shnll ho had nt the 
succeeding term of the court, as may have been had at the term
to which said summons shallbe returnable. 
SEc. 11. If, in any suit in chancery, the process shall not be
returned executed on the return <lay thereof, the clerk, if required,~~
shall issue an alias, piurie«, or other process, without an order of 
the court therefore. · 
SEC. 12. The complainant mar cause a copy of the bill or 
' ' th ' h · th f h ·
petition, toge er wit a notice o e commencement o t e suit, 
to be delivered to any defendant residing or being without this
state, not less than thirty days previous to the commencement
of the term at which such defendant is required to appear; which
service, when proved to the satisfaction of the court, by the oath 
or deposition of any person competent to be a witness in the cause, 
shall be as effectual as if such service bJld been made in the usual
form, within the limits of this state.+ L. /Y-~ ?, 
1' 
I J'&, 
SJ-;c. I :3. ,vhen any bill is taken for contessed, the court may
k h d I b • d ' h 
ma e 811C ccree t iereon, as may e Just, an may enforce sue
decree, either by sequestration of real and personal estate, by 
attachment against the person, by causlng po:--:-:t·s~ion of real and
personal estate to be delivered to the party entitled thereto, or by
ordering the demand of the complainant to be paid out of the
effects or estate sequestered, or which are included in such
decree ; and by the exercise of such other powers as pertain to 
courts of chancery, and which may be necessary for the attainment
of j ustice. 
S1w. 14. A decree for mmiey shall be a lien on the lands and
f h · h · • d h 
tenements o t e party against w om tt rs entere , to t e ~me
extent and under the same limitations as a judgment at law. ,J·,4 
81w. 15. \Vhcn any final decree shall be entered against any
defendant who shall not have been summoned or notified to appear 
as required h~ ~his chapter, and such person, his. heirs, deviseea,
executor, administrator or other legal representatives, as the case
may require, shall within one ye~r after aioticc in writing given 
him or them of such decree, or within three years after such
decree, if no such notice shall have been given as aforesaid,
appear in opt·n court and petition to be heard, touching the mutter 
of such decree, and -shall pay such costs as the court shall deem
reasonable in that behalf the person so petitioning mny appear 
and answer the complainant's bill, and thereupon, such proceed­
ings shall he had as if the defendants had appeared in due season,
and no decree had been made. The decree shall, after three
years from the making thereof, if not set aside in manner afore­
said, be deemed and adjudged confirmed n.~ainst such non-resident
defendant, and all persons claiming under him by virtue of any act
done subsequent to the commencement of such suit; and at the
end of the said three ye:m~, the court may make such further order
in the premises as shall be required, and shall be jnst. 
Ssc. 16. If the defendant shall be brought into court by virtne
of any process, being in contempt for refusing to appear, and shall 
continue to refuse or neglect to enter his appearance, or appoint 
a solicitor of the court to do it for him, according to the provisions
of this chapter, or the rules of said court, then, and in that case,
the court may appoint a solicitor to enter an appeamnce pf such
defendant, and such further proceedings may be had in the said
cause, as if the party had actually appeared. 
SEc. 17. The judges of the circuit courts, in their respective
circuits, may establish rules of proceeding in chancery, and· make
all needful orders and regulations, consistent with the practice of
courts of chancery, in cases not provided tor by Jaw. 
SEC. 18. Every defendant who shall be summoned according
to the provisions of this chapter shall file his exceptions, plea, 
demurrer or answer to the bill at the time to which the process
or summons shall be returnable ; if he fail to do so, the bill may be
taken for confessed; but for good· cause shown, the court may
extend the time for excepting or pleading, and the court may
thereupon enter an interlocutory decree, which may be made 
absolute at the next term, and carried into effect as other final
decrees. If the defendant shall appear at the next term and offer 
to file his answer to the bill, the court may permit him to do so, 
upon his showing sufficient cause, and paying the costs of the preceding terms; hi such case, the decree shall be vacated, and the
cause may be proceeded in as in other cases. 
SEc. 19. Where a bill is taken for confessed, the court, before
a final decree is made, if deemed requisite, may order the com- 
plainant to produce documents and witnesses to prove the nllegations of bis bill, or may examine him on oath or affirmation, 
touching the facts therein alleged; such decree shall be made in
either case as the court shall consider equitable and proper. 
SEc. 20. Every answer shall be verified by an oath or affinnation, taken before and certified by a judge or justice of the peace 
in this state, or the clerk of the court in which the action is
pending, or before a judge or justice of the peace or other person
authorized to administer an oath in the state, territory, kingdom
or empire, in which the defendant may be, or reside; the official
character of such officer, if out of this state, being attested by the
seal of some court of record, within such state, territory, kingdom
or empire. 
SEc. 21. When a bill shall be filed in the court of chancery,
other than for discovery only, the complainant may waive the:'!;:~~~!: 
necessity of the answer being made on the oath of the defendant;
and in such cases the answer may be made without oath, and shall 
have no other or greater force as <Widence than the bill.
SEc. 22. When an answer shall he adjudged insufficient, the 
defendant shall file a further answer within such time as the court
shall direct, and on failure thereof, the bill shall be taken as con- 
fessed; if such further answer shall be likewise adjudged insufficient,
the defendant shall file a supplemental answer, and pay all costs
attendant thereon ; if that shall be adjudged insufficient, the
defendant may be rroceeded against for a contempt, and the like
procoedings be hac thereon to enforce the order of the court as in
other cases of contempt. 
SEc. 23. Every defendant shall answer fully all the allegations
d 
. . f h 1 . h ~
an interrogatories o t. e comp ainant, except sue nR are not 
required to be answered by reason of exceptions, plea or demurrer
thereto allowed. 
SEC. 24. Any defendant mny, after filing his answer, exhibit and
fil
h
. bill · · · · l l ·
e 1s cross 1 contammg interrogatories to t ie comp ainant, a TH 
call npon him to file his answer thereto in such time as may be
prescribed by. the rules of the conrt. 
SEc. 25. The complainant shall in such case be held to except,
plead, demur or answer to such cross bill in the same manner that 
a defendant is required to except, plead, demur or answer to an
original bill, and his answer shall be evidence in the same manner
as the defendant's answer to the bill. 
SEc. 26. If the complainant shall fail to answer such interroga­
tories, his bill or petition shall be dismissed with costs, or the new
matter set out in the defendant's cross bill shall be taken as
confessed, and a decree entered accordingly. 
SEc. 27. "Where it is necessary for the defendant to bring
new party before the court, he shall state it in his answer, and
insert interrogatories for him in his answer ; and a suhp<I'na
shall be issued, and other proceedings had, as in the case of other 
defendants. 
8Ec. 28. No complainant shall be allowed to dismiss his hill, after
a cross bill has been filed, without the consent of the defandaut, 
SEc. 29. The complainant shall not be compelled to file his
answer to nny cross bill until the defendant shall have filed a
sufficient answer to the complainant's bill. 
8.Ec. 30. All exceptions to answers to interrogntories exhibited
by the defendant as aforesaid shall be filed within such time as the
court may direct, and be argued at such time as the court may
appoint. If the complainant's exceptions be overruled, he shall
pay costs to the defendant; and if the defendant's answer be
adjudged insufficient, he shall pay costs to the complainant. 
SEc. 31. Replications shall be general, with the like advantage
to all parties as if special; and shall be filed in four days after the 
answer, if in term time ; or if such answer be filed in vacation, the
plaintifff or his attorney shall have notice thereof: 
SEc. 32. After replication is filed, the cause shall be deemed at
issue, and stand for hearing at the next term; or, in default of 
fili }
1. 
• } '· b ~ I • h 
mg sue l rpp ication, t re cause may e set ror tearing upon t e
hill nnd answer, in which case the answer shall Le taken as true,
and no evidence shall he received, unless it be matter of record to 
which the answer refers, 
SEc. 33. ".,.hen the complainant shall re~nire a discovery
respecting the matters charged in the bill, the disclosure shall not
be deemed conclusive; but if a replication be filed, may be dis­
proved or contradicted, like any other testimony, according to the 
practice of courts of equity,
SEc. 3!. The said circuit courts, when sitting as courts of equity, 
may extend the time for answering, replying, pleading, demurring
or joining in demurrer; and may permit the parties to amend their
bills, petitions, pleas, nnswers and replications on such terms as the
court may deem proper, so that neither party bo surprised nor
delayed thereby. . 
SEc. 35. The said circuit courts may, in their discretion, direct
an issue or issues to be tried by a jury whenever it shall b« judged 
necessary in any cause in equity pcuding in any of the said courts. 
In all other causes in equity the mode of trial shall be the same as
has been heretofore practiced in courts of chancery. 
SEc. 30. ,vhcncver an execution shnll have been issued nga.inst 
h f 1 ~ ,1 • ..l } • ~ • 
e property o a < etendnnt, on a judgment at aw or m equity,
and shall have been returned unsatisfied, in whole 01' in part, the
party suing out such execution may file a hill in chancery ngainst
such defendant, and any other person, to compel the discovery of
any property, or thing in action, belonging to the dofendant ; and
if m1y property, money or thing in action due to him, or held in 
trust for him, and to prevent the transfer of any such property,
money or thing in action, or the payment or delivery thereof to the
defendant, except when such trust has been created by, or the fund
so held in trust has proceeded from, some person other than the 
defendant himself.
8Ec. 37. The court shall have power to compel such discovery, 
and to prevent such transfer, payment or delivery, and to decree
satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such judgments, out of
any personal property, money or things in action, belonging to the
dcfondnnt, or held in trust for him, with the exception above stated,
which shall he discovered by the proceedings in chancery, whether
tho same were orizinallv liable to he taken bl execution at law or
not: Provided, That no answer made to anv hill filed under this
and the preceding section shall be read in cYi<knce against tho 
defendant on the trial of any indictment for the fraud charged in
the bill. 
SEc. 38. If in any suit or action now pending, or which shall
hereafter be brought in any court of chancery, there are, or shall
be, two or more complainants or defendants, and one or more of~ 
them die (if the cause of such action or suit survive to the
snrviviug complainant or complainants, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants), such suit or action shall not thereby be 
abated ; but such death being suggested and shown to the satisfaction of the court, such suit or action shall proceed at the suit of the
surviving complainant or complainants, and against the surviving
defendant or defendants. 
SEc. 39. When there shall be two or more complainants or
defendants in any suit or action in chancery, as aforesaid, and any 
of them die, and the cause of action do not. survive, but other
persons shall become parties in interest, in right, or by the death
of such deceased party, such suit or action shall, by reason of such
death, he abated only with respect to such deceased party. Tho
surviving complainant or complainants may proceed against the
surviving defendant or defendants without reviving the suit against
the representatives of the deceased party, or any other who may
become interested by the death of such party; but, in such case,
such representatives or other persons becoming interested by the
death of such party, shall not be bound by any order or decree in
such cause, to which they are not made parties; and they may be
made parties in the manner provided in chapter one of the revised 
statutes. 
SEc. 40. In all cases where all the complainants or defendants,
in any suit now pending, or hereafter to be brought in any court
of chancery, shall die before final decree, such suit or action shall
not thereby be abated, but may be revived in the name of the
legal representatives of the deceased, or other person becoming
interested in the cause of action by the death of such party. 
SEc. 41. In all suits in chancery, and suits to obtain title to
lands, in any of the courts of this state, if there be persons 
interested in the same whose names are unknown, it shall be lawful 
to make such persons parties to such suits or proceedings by the
name and description of persons unknown, or unknown heirs or
devisces of any deceased person who may have been interested in
the subject matter of the suit previous to his or her death; but in
all such cases an affidavit shall be filed by the party desiring to
make any unknown person a party, stating that the names of such
persons are unknown, and process shall be issued against all parties,
by the name and description given as aforesaid, and notices given
by publication, as is required in section eight of this chapter, shall
be sufficient to authorize the court to hear and determine the suit
as though all parties had been sued by their proper names. 
SEC'. 42. All decrees, orders, judgments and proceedings made
or hnd with respect to such unknown persons shall have the same
effect, and be as bindin~ and conclusive upon them, as though such
suit or proceeding had been instituted against them by their proper
names. 
SEc. 43. Whenever a decree shall be made in any suit in equity,
directing the execution of any deed or other writing, and the party 
against. whom !he sa~e shall ~ave ?een entered shall not comply~~\f
therewith withm the time required, 1t shall be lawful for the court 
to appoint a commissioner to execute the same ; the execution
thereof hy such commissioner shall be as valid iI1 law to pass,
release or extinguish the right, title and interest-of the party on
whose behalf it is executed, as if it had been executed by such
party in proper person, in conformity with Ruch decree; and such
deed or other writing, if it relate to lnnd, shall, within six months
after its execution by such commissioner, be recorded in the office
of the county wherein the lands may lie. 
SEC, 44. In all cases where a sale of property is <1.ecreed the
court may direct the same to be made for ensh, or on such credit,
and on such terms, as it may deem best and most equitable to the 
iuterests of the several parties. 
Sze, 45. All decrees given in causes in equity in this state shall 
be a lien on all real estate respecting which such decrees shall be 
made; and whene~er, by any decree, any party to a suit in equity
shall be required to perform any act other than the payment of
money, or to refrain from performing any act, the conrt may, in 
such decree, order that the same shall be a lien upon the real or
personal estate, or both, of such party until such decree shall be
folly complied with; and such lien shall have the same force and
effect, and be subject to the same limitations and restrictions as
judgments at law. 
SEc. 46. When there shall be no master in chancery or commie- 
• • l l b • d ' ff b 
stoner to execute a < ecree, t ie same may e carne into e ect y
execution or other final process, according to the nature of the 
case, directed to the sheriff or other officer of the proper county;
which, when issued, shall be executed and returned by the sheriff'
or other officer to whom it may be directed, and shall have the
same operation and force as similar writs issued upon a judgment
at law. 'I'he sheriff or other officer to whom the same is directed, 
shall be subject to the like penalties and recoveries for misconduct
or neglect ill the execution or return thereof, as in cases at law;
or the court may, if necessary, direct an attachment to be issued
against the party disobeying such decree, and fine or imprison him,
or both, in the discretion of tho court, and may also direct a
sequestration for disobedience of any decree. 
SEc. 47. In any cause in equity it shall be lawful for the court
in which the cause is pending to appoint a guardian ad litem, to
any infant or insane defendant in such cause, whether such infant
or insane defendant shall have been served 'Yith process or not,
and to compel the person so appointed to act. By such appoint­
ment, such i,erson shall not be rendered liable to pay costs of suit;
and he shall moreover be allowed a reasonable sum for his charges
as such guardian, to be paid by the party at whose motion he was
appointed, to be taxed in the bill of costs. 
SEC. 48. The several circuit courts of this state shall have power
to appoint, in each county, a master in chancery, who shall hold 
his office during the term of four years. 
SEc. 49. Every master in chancery, before entering on the duties
of his appointment, shall give bond: with security to be approved 
by the court, and take and subscribe an oath of office, which bond
and oath shall be filed with the clerk of the court making the 
nwointmcnt. 
bEc. 50. Masters in chancery, in their respective counties, shall
have power to take depositions, both in law and equity, to admin­ 
ister oaths, to compel the attendance of witnesses, and in the 
absence from the county of the circuit judge presiding in such
county, to order the issuing of writs of habeas corpus, ne exeat 
and injunction, and perform all other duties, which, according to
the laws of this state, and the practice of courts of chancery,
appertain to the office. 
Sxo, 51. \Vhenever it shall happen that there shall be no master
in chancery, in any county, or when such master shall be of counsel, 
of kin to either party, interested, or otherwise disqualified or
unable to act in any suit or matter, the court mny a.rpoint a special 
master, to perform the duties of the office in all things concerning
such suit or matter. 
Ssc, 52. Masters in chancery shall receive for their services
such compensation as shall be allowed by law, to be taxed as other
costs, 
SEc. 53. Nothing in the preceding sections contained shall be
1
d
h 
, l . . ' f b d f d
construer to exten to t ose artic es m possession o t e e en ant, 
which are exempt from execution by law. 
(2.) .AMEXDHENTS CONFERRING POWERS UPON MASTERS IN CII.L~CEl?Y. 
1 • .t.cr na. 10, lSM.
[RMI, Stat • App, 611.) 
SECTIO~. I. That whenever any master in chancery shall haw
resigned his office, or shall have been removed therefrom, and shall 
have left any business pertaining to his office unfinished, it shall be
lawful for his successor or successors in office, to do any act or 
acts coming within the duties of the master, which may have been
left undone by his predecessor or predecessors, and which may be
necessary to the final completion of such unfinished business, 
Sze. 2. That this act shall have relation to any business as
aforesaid, which may, now or hereafter, remain unfinished, ns 
contemplated in the first section of this act; and that this act shall
take effect from and after its passage. 
2. ACT XUCD 8, lSM. 
[RMI. Stat • App, Im.]
SECTION 1. That from and after the first day of April next, the 
t f ffi
f • h • h l , • 
enure o o ce o master m c a.nccry, m t e severs counties m
this state, shall be two years. 
SEC. 2. Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office of master in
] 
· . hi d h , , f hi
c iancery, m any county m t is state, un er t e provunons o t is 
law, it shall be the duty of the judge presiding in the circuit court
of such county, to fill such vacancy by appointment, as soon thereafter as conveniently may be. 
SEc. 3. So much of the first section of the law entitled "An
act to fix the tenure of certain officers," approved February 21i,;t,
one thousand ei~ht hundrecl and forty-three, as conflicts with the
provisions of this law, be and the same is hereby repealed. 
8. I.OT Ill.BCD 8, ISM. 
[RMI, Stat. lSM,p.679.)
SEcTIOX 1. That hereafter, masters in chancery in their respective 
counties, upon application in manner as now is provided by law, 
to be made to the propl'r judge, shall have power to grant and
order the issuing of writs of certiorari, to remove causes from
before justices of the peace and probate justices, into the circuit 
court. 
(3.) NE EXEAT A~"'"D INJU~CTIONS. 
[Reti. Stat. 1~, Chap. LXXIJ.] 
SEcTIO~ I. ,vrits of ne eeeat republica may hereafter be granted,
as well in cases where the deht or demand is not actually due, but
exists fairly and bona fide in expectancy, at the time of making
application, as in cases where the demand is dne; and it shall not
he necessary to authorize the grauting of such writ of ne eaeat 
that the applicant should show that his debt or demand is purely
of an equitable character, and only cognizable before a court of 
equity.
SEc. 2. In case of joint, or joint and several obligors or debtors, 
if one or more of them be about to remove without the juris­
dictional , limits of this state, taking their property with them,
leaving one or more coobligors or codebtors bound with them for
the payment of any sum of money, or for the delivery of any
article of property, or for the conveyance of land at a. certain time,
which time shall not have arrived at the time of such intended
removal, such coobligor or codebtor who remains, shall be entitled
on application, to a writ of ne exeat, to compel the ooobligor or
codebtor who is about to remove, to secure the payment of his
part of the sum to be paid, or of the delivery of the property, or to 
convey or to join in the conveyance of the land. Also, in cases of
security, the writ of ne ezeat may issue on application of a security,
against the principal or cosecurity, when the obligation or debt
shall not be yet due, and the principal or cosecurity is about
removing out of the state. 
SEc. 3. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted but upon bill or
petition filed, and affidavit to the truth of the allegations therein 
contained; upon the granting of any such writ, the court or judge
granting the same, shall indorse or cause to be indorsed on the
bill or petition, in what penalty bond and security shall be required 
of the defendant; and shnll also, before issuing the said writ, take 
bond of the complainant, with good and sufficient security, in such
sum as the Raid court or judge shall deem proper, conditioned that 
the said complainant will prosecute his bill or petition with effect;
and that he will reimburse to the defendant, such damages and
costs as he shall wrongfully sustain by occasion of the said writ.
If any defendant to such writ of ne exeat shall think himself
aggrieved, he may bring snit on such bond ; and if, on trial, it
shall appear that such writ of ne exeat was prayed for without a
just cause, the person injured shall recover damages, to be assessed
as in other cases on penal bonds. 
SEC. 4. All writs of ne exeat shall be returnable into the circuit
court of the proper county; and when granted by a judge in
vacation, may be issued under the hand of the judge; or the
judge may direct the clerk of the said circuit court to issue the
said writ, and to take bond of the complainant p,s is above required. 
SEO. 5. The writ of ne exeas shall contain a summons for the
defendant to appear in the circuit court and answer to the said 
petition or bill, and npon the same being served uy,on the said
defendant, he shall give bond with surety, in the sum indorsed on 
such writ, conditioned that he will not depart the state without
leave of the said court, and that he will render himself in execution
to answer any judgment or decree which the said court may
render against him; and in default of giving such security, he may
be committed to jail as in other cases, for the want of bail; no
temporary departure of the defendant from the state shall be considered as a breach of the condition of the said bond, if he shall
return before personal appenrnnce shall be necessary to answer
or llerform nny judgment, order or decree of the said court. 
SEC. 6. The surety in any bond for the defendant as aforesaid, may, at any time before the said bond shall be forfeited,
surrender the said defendant, in exoneration of himself, in the
same manner that bail may surrender their principal, and obtain
the same discharge. 
SEc. 7. On the return of the writ of ne exeat, if the same shall
have been duly served, the court shall proceed therein as in other 
cases in chancery, if the matters alleged in said bill be purely of
an equitable character, and the time of performance of the duty
or obligation of the defendant has expired ; if not, then the proceedings shall be stayed until it has expired; but the court may,
nevertheless, proceed to determine whether the said writ ought not
to be quashed or set aside. 
SEc. 8. The supreme and circuit courts, in term time, and any
judge thereof in vacation, shall have power to grant writs of ne
exeat and it~'nnction. No writ of injunction shall be granted to 
• , , , , 
stay procee mgs uniter a. judgment obtained before a justice of
the peace, for a sum not exceeding twenty dollars, besides the 
costs. 
SEC. 9. When an injunction shall be granted by the supreme
. court, or a judge thereof, it shall be made returnable into the 
circuit of the proper county. 
SEc. 10. When an injunction shall be eranted to stay a suit or
• d l h ' di l -11 b le d • h h 
JU gment at aw, t e procce mgs s lIDJ. e ia m t e county w ere
the judgment was obtained, or the suit is pending; and the writ
of subprena may be sent in the first instance into any county within
this state where the defendant resides. 
l 
SEc. 11. No injunction shall be granted to stah any judgment at 
.I!. } I 1 ' ~ all h h" lf.mente 
aw, tor a greater sum t inn t ie comp ainsnt s s ow nnse
equitably not bound to pay, and so much as shall be sufficient to
cover costs; every injunction, when granted, shall operate as a
release of all errors in the proceedings at law, that are prayed to
be enjoined. No injunction shall be issued, unless the complainant
shall have previously executed a bond with sufficient surety, to the
defendant, approved by the court or judge granting such injunction,
and filed with the clerk, in double the sum, directed to be enjoined,
conditioned for the payment of all money and costs due, or to be
due to the plaintifff in the action at law ; and also, all such costs
and damages as shall be awarded against the complainant, in case
the injunction shall be dissolved, or such bond may be entered into
before the clerk of the circuit court of the county where the writ
is required to be issued, the court or judge granting the injunction,
having .. fh-st approved the security. If the injunction be dissolved
in the whole or in part, the complainant shall pay, exclusive of
legal interest and costs, such damages as the court shall award, not 
exceeding ten per centum, on such part as may be released from
the injunction; and the clerk shall issue execution for the same,
when he issuea execution upon such judgment. 
SEc. 12. If any person against whom a. writ of injunction shall
be issued, shall, after the service thereof, be guilty of disobedience
to and breach of the said injunction, it shall be lawful for the judge
granting the same, or if the same were granted in open court, then
for any judge of that court in vacation, to issue an attachment
against the said person for a contempt. Upon his being brought
before the said judge, unless he shall disprove or purge the said
contemr.t, the said judge may, in his discretion, commit him to
jail until the sitting of the court in which the said injunction is
pending, or take bail for his appearance in the said court at the
next term thereof, to answer for the said contempt, and to abide
the order of the court thereon. 
SEc. 13. Upon the filin1i of an answer, it shall be in order at
apy time in term, to move for a dissolution of the injunction ; and
upon such motion it shall be lawful for the parties to introduce
testimony to support the bill and answer; the court shall decide
such motion upon the weight of testimony, without being bound
to take the answer as absolutely true. If, after such dissolution
is moved for, the plaintifff in the bill will satisfy the court by his
own affidavit, or the affidavit of any disinterested person, that
the answer, or any material part thereof (to be specified in such
affidavit), is untrue, and that he has witnesses whose testimony he
believes he can procure by the next term of the court, who will 
disprove the said answer, or such material part thereof as shall be
specified as aforesaid, and that he has had no opportunity to pro­
cure such testimony since the coming in of the answer, it shall be
lawful for the court to grant a continuance of the said motion, until
the next term. The testimony to be heard on such motions, aside
from the bill and answer, shall be by depositions in writing, taken
as in other cases in chancery proceedings, except the affidavits
which may have been filed with the bill or answer, which may be
read on such motion as heretofore ; and the depositions taken to
disolve an injunction, mny be read on the final hearing of the cause
in which they have been taken. 
f~ /'it,/ I- ,, .J J 'I "'. ..l,,,.,c. I 1) !} 
(4.) l!ANXER OF cosoncxrrxo Sl'l1'8 Di CHANCERY AG.A.INST
R.\11.ROAn COlJPANIES. 
[Sess. Laws ra: 12, 1~, p. 65.)
SECTIOY I. That actions at law or in chancery mny be brought 
• •1 d . . . • . · ·
against any r.a• roa <~om\)any m any circuit court, m any county 
in this state through whic 1 any railroad of such company may be
located. 
SEc. 2. In all cases at law or in chancery, any perRon may com­
mencc an action or actions against any railroad company by filing 
in the clerk's office of the circuit court in which said action or
actions shall be instituted, a declaration or hill in chancery, as the
case may be, and by giving notice to said company of the filing of
said. declaration or bill in chancery, by at least four successive
publications of said notice in a weekly 11ewspaper published in the 
county (or if no newspaper he published in the county, then in the 
. 
newspaper published in the nearest county), where snid action shall
be brought, the first of which publications shall be at least sixty
days previous to the first day of the next succeeding term of said
court. 
SEc. 3. In all cases instituted under the provisions of this act,
the said circuit court shall have the same power and authority to 
hear and determine the same, as in other cases at law or in chancery,
and the filing of a declaration or hill in chancery, and the publication of notice, as in the second section of this act named, shall
be deemed and taken as sufficient notice to said railroad company
of the pendancy of said action. 
SEc. 4. All judgments and decrees recovered against any railroad company as aforesaid, shall have the same force and effect as 
other judgments at law or decrees in chancery. 
SEc. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage. 
SEc. 6. All actions instituted under the provisions of this act
h
b
the
R all e commenced and prosecuted in the counties where 
cause of action accrued, and not otherwise. 
(5.) CHAXCERY PRACTICE Di THE SET'EXTU JUDICIAL CIRCCIT.
(&u. Laut Feb. 12, 1858, p. 66] 
SECTION 1. That in nil chancery cases pending in any of the
courts of the seventh judicial circuit of this state, motions for the 
dissolution of injunctions, UJ?J>Ointment of receivers and guardians
ad litcm, demurrers to bills, and other pleadings, exceptions,
petitions and all interlocutory motions, may be filed by the parties
and heard by the presiding judge of said circuit, at his chamber
in vacation, and the decree, judgment or order of the judge on
such hearing shall be immediatciy transmitted by him to the clerk
of the court wherein such suit is pending, and entered by said
clerk, as soon as received by him, upon the record of said court,
and take effect from the time of such entry: Provided, That if 
any mistake shall be made by Raid clerk in the entry of such order,
decree or judgment, the same may be corrected on motion of any
party to said suit, made either to the judge in vacation or to the
court wherein such snit is pending, at its next ensuing term. 
Sxc. 2. Any party to a suit in chancery, pending in any of the
courts of said circuit, wishing to bring on for hearing in vacation 
any motion, petition, demurrer or exception, as provided in the
foregoing section, may do so by serving upon all the parties to such
snit, who are to be affected by such motion, petition, exception or
demurrer, a cop~· of said motion, petition, exception or demurrer,
accompanied with notice in writing of said party's intention to 
bring the same on for hearing in vacation, and stating the time and
place of such hearing; which said copy and notice shall be served
at least ten days previous to the day fixed for such heating. 
S1w. 3. It shall be the duty of the presiding Judge of said
circuit, nt the next term of court which he may hold m each county
in said circuit, after the pas~n_ge of this act, to cause an entry to
he made upon the record of such circuit courts, designating at least
two days in each month in vacation as motion days, for the hearing 
of matters contemplnted Ly this act, and all notices of such hearings
shall fix upon one of said motion days as the time for the hearing
of the matter in said notice mentioned. 
SEc. 4. Appeals and writs of error may be prosecuted from all
judgments, orders or decrees rendered upon auy hearing in vacation,
under the previsions of this ad, in the same manner and to the
same extent as though such proceedings were had at a. regular
term of the court where such suit is pending, 
81-:c. 5. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage. 
(0.) DIVORCES. <._.feu... ,, /.'11,JI 
[Rtr. Stat. 1~, Chap. XX."UI/.] 
SEcTIO~ 1. In every case in which a marriage has been, or
hereafter may Le contracted and solemnized between any two 
p~drsodus,1and ~t1 1-1hall be adjud1ged. in tlf1e mahuner. h~reinafter prode , t int eit ier party, at t ie tune o sue marnage, was an 
continues to be, naturally impotent; or that he or she had a wife
b . f 1 · l • h 
or hus and living at the time o sue 1 marriage ; or t int eit er
party has committed adultery subsequently to the marriage; or 
has willfully deserted and absented himself or herself from the
b d . f' . 1 1.J f' } f 
an or wi e, wit rout any reason au e cause, or t ie space O 
two years or has been c,uiJty of extreme and repeated cruelty or 
• ' ' I:'.:' • · 
habitual drunkenness for the spncc of two ye:m~; or has been convicted of felony or other infamous crime, it shall be lawful for the 
injured paib·ty to obtaihn ad.divorce han1c1l ~is~oluti?n of ~such 
1mar1ri3:g~
contract; ut no sue 1 vorce s a , m anywise, attect t ie egittmacy of the children of such marriage, except in cases where 
the marriage shall be declared void on the grounds of a prior
marriage. 
SEc. 2. The circuit court, sitting as a court of chancery, shall
have jurisdiction in all cast's of divorce and alimony by this chap­ 
ter allowed; and the like process, practice and proceedings shall
be had, as arc usually had in other cases in chancery, except as is
hereinafter provided, and except that the answer of the defendant
need not be on oath. The proceedings shall be had in the county
where the complainant resides, and the process may be directed
to any county in the state. 
SEc. 3. No person shall be entitled to a divorce in pursuance of
the provisions of this chapter, who has not resided in the state one 
whole year previous to tilin~ his or her bill or petition, unless the
offense or injury complained of was committed within this state, 
or whilst one or both of the parties resided in this state.
Sze. 4. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, that 
the injury complained of, was occasioned by collusion of the
parties, or done with the assent of the complainant for tho pur­
pose of obtaining a divorce, or that the complainant was consentiug thereto, or that both parties have been guilty of adultery, 
when adultery is the ground of complaint, then no divorce shall
be decreed. 
S1..:c. 5. In all cases for a divorce, where the defendant shall
appear and deny the charues iu the complainant's bill or petition
alleged, the same shall be tried by a jury; but if the bill or 
petition shall be taken for confessed, the court may proceed to 
hearing .of the cause, by examination of witnesses in open court;
and no confession of the defendant shall be taken as evidence, 
unless the court or jury shall be satisfied that such confession was
made in sincerity, and without fraud or collusion, to enable the 
complainant to obtain a divorce. Hut any marriage which may
have been celebrated or had in any foreign state or country, may 
be proved by the acknowledgment of the parties, their cohabitation, and other circumstantial testimony. 
SEc. 6. When a divorce shall be decreed, it shall and may be
lawful for the court to make such order touching the alimony and 
maintenance of the wife, the care, custody and support of the chil- 
f he ci f th .
ren, or any o t rem, as rom t e circumstances o t e parties an 
d
fl 
the nature of the case, shall be fit, reasonable and just. And in
case the wife be complainant, to order the defendant to give reasonable security for such alimony and maintenance, or may enforce
the payment of such alimony and maintenance in any other manner
consistent with the rules and practice of the court. And the
court mny, on application, from time to time, make such alterations in the allowance of alimony and maintenance, as shall appear 
reasonable and proper.
SEc. 7. Any woman suing for a divorce, who shall make it 
appear satisfactorily to the court, that she is poor and unable to 
pay the expenses of such suit, shall be allowed by the court to
prosecute her complaint without costs, and in such cases, no fees
shall be charged by the officers of the court. 
SEc. 8. In addition to the causes herein before provided, for
divorces from the bands of matrinony, courts of chancery in this
state shall have full power and authority to hear and determine all
causes for a divorce, not provided for by any law of this state. 
The same rule of proceeding shall be had as in other cases in ehancery, and upon hearing of the bill, or bill and answer, and proofs 
and exhibits, if the court shall be satisfied of the expediency of
decreeing a dissolution of the bands of matrimony, it shall have 
power to do so, and to make such order with regard to the costs
as it may deem right, and also to make such order with regard to
the children (if any), and the right of alimony, as it may think
proper. 
[Re-ti. Stat. ise, Okap, XX.UV.]
SECTION 1. A widow shall be endowed of the third part of all 
the lands whereof her husband was seized of an estate of inheritance, at any time during the marriage, unless the same shall have 
been relinquished in lecnl form. Equitable estates shall be subject
h . l ' d t:> ,1 11 1 f d . ti 
to t e wic ow s ower, anu a rea estate o every cscnp ion contracted for bl the husband in his life time, the title to which may 
1, I ~ hi d 
(7.) DOWER. 
ue comp etec after is . ccease.
SEc. 2. The widow of an alien shall be entitled to dower of the 
estate of her husband, in the same manner as if such alien had
been a native born citizen of the United State's. 
SEC. 3. Wbere a person seized of an estate of inheritance in
land, shall have executed a mortgage of such estate before mar- 
riago, his widow shall, nevertheless, 1,e entitled to dower out of the
lands mortgaged, as agninst every person, except the mortgagee,
and those claiming under him. 
81-:c. 4. Where a husband shall purchase lands during coverture,
and shall mortgage such lands to secure the payment of the pur­
chase money thereof, his widow shall not be entitled to dower out
of such lands, as against the mortgagee or those claiming under
him, although she shnll not have united in such mortgage; but she
shall be entitled to her dower as against all other persons. 
8Ec. 5. When, in the cases specified in the two preceding sec- 
• • ft h
tions, the mortgagee, or those claiming under him, shall, a er t e 
death of such husband, cause the land mortgaged to be sold, either
under a power contained in the mortgage, or by virtue of the judg­
ment or decree of a court, and any surplus shall remain, after the
payment of the money~ due on such mortgage, and the costs and
charges of sale, such widow shall be entitled to the interest or
income of one-third part of such surplus, for life, as her dower. 
Sze. 6. .A widow shall not be endowed of lands conveyed to her
husband by way of mortgage, unless he have acquired an absolute 
estate during the marriage.
SEc. 7. \Vhen an estate in land shnll be conveyed to a person 
and his intended wife, or to such intended wife alone, or to any
person in trust for such person and his intended wife, or in trust
for such intended wife alone, for the purpoRe of creating a jointure
far such intended wife, and with her assent, to be taken in lieu of
<lower, such jointurc shall he a bar to nny right or claim for dower
of such wife, in any land of her husband, 
Sze, 8. The assent of the wife to such jointure, shall he evinced,
if she be of full age, by her becoming a party to the conveyance
by which it shall be settled; if she be an infant, by her joining
with her father or guardian in such conveyance. 
SEc. 9. If, before her marriage, but without her assent, or if~ 
after her marriage, l:1.JJ<l shall be given or assured for the jointnre
of a wife, in lieu of dower, she shall make her election, whether
she will take such jointnro, or whether she will be endowed of the
lands of her husband, but she shall not be entitled to both. 
S1w. 10. Every devise of land, or any estate therein, by will,
shall bar her dower in lands, or of her share in personal estate,
unless otherwise expressed in the will; but she may elect whether
she will take such devise or bequest, or whether she will renounce
the benefit of such devise or bequest, and take her dower in the
lands, and her share in the personal estate of her husband. 
SEc. 11. When a woman shall be entitled to nn election under
either of the two last preceding sections, she shall be deemed to
have elected to take such jointure or devise unless within one year
after the authentication or probate of the will, she shall deliver or
transmit to the court of probate of the proper county, a written
renunciation, which mny be in the following form, to wit: 
" I, A- Il-, widow of C- D-, late of the county of --, and State of --,
do hereby renounce and quit all claim to the benefit of any juinture, bequest or
devise made to me by the lllBt will and testament of my said deceased husband,
which has been exhibited and proved according to law (or otherwise, as the case
may he), and I do elect to take in lieu thereof, my dower or legal share of the
estate of my said husband." 
\Y-hich said Jetter of renunciation shall he filed in the office of the
probate justice of the peace, and shall operate as a complete bar 
against any claim which such widow may afterward set up, to any
provision which may have been thus made for her in such jointure,
or in the will of any such testator, in lien of' dower; and by thus
renouncing all claims, as aforesaid, such widow shall thereupon be
entitled to dower in the lands, or share in the personal estate of
her husband. 
SEC. 12. If any woman shall be divorced from her husband for
the fault or misconduct of such husband, except where the marriage
was void from the beginning, she shall not thereby lose her dower,
nor the benefit of any such jointure; but if such divorce be for her
fault or misconduct, she shall forfeit the same; and when a divorce
is obtained for the fault and misconduct of the husband, he shall
lose his right to be tenant b/J the curt,esy in the wife's lands, and
also any estate granted therein by the laws of this state. 
SEc 13. If a wife voluntarily leave her husband and commit
adultry, she shall be forever barred her dower, and of the benefit 
of any such jointure, unless her husband be voluntarily reconciled
to her, and suffer her to dwell with him. 
SEc. 14. No act, deed or conveyance, performed or executed
b
h h
b d 
• I b f hi if • d b h
y t e us an , WJt rout t e assent o 18 w e, evince y t e 
acknowledgment thereof, in the manner required by law, shall
pass the estate of a married woman ; and no judgment or decree
confessed or recovered against him, and no laches, default, eovin, 
forfeiture or crime of the husband, shall prejudice the right of his
wife to her dower or jointure, or preclude her from the recovery 
thereof if otherwise entitled thereto. 
SEC. 16. If a husband die, leaving a widow, but no children,
nor descendants of children, such widow may, if she elect, have 
in lieu of her dower in the estate of which her husband died
aeized, whether the same shall have been assigned or not, 
absolutely and in her own right, as if she were sole, one-half of all
real estate which shall remain after the payment of all just debts
and claims against the deceased husband: Provided, That in ease
dower in such estate shall have been already assigned, she shall
make such new election, within two months after being notified
of the payment of such debts and claims. 
SEc. 16. If a husband, seized of an estate of inheritance in
lands, exchange it for other lands, his widow shall not have dower
of both, but shall make her election as hereinbefore provided, to 
be endowed of the lands given or of those taken in exchange ;
and if such election be not evinced, by the commencement of
proceedings for the recovery and assignment of her dower of the
lands given in exchange, within one year after the death of her
husband, she shall be deemed to have elected to take her dower
of the lands received in exchange. 
SEc. 17. It shall be the duty of the heir at law, or other person,
having the next estate of freehold or inheritance in nny lands or 
estate of which the widow is entitled to dower, to lay off and
assign such dower, as soon as practicable, after the death of the 
husband of such widow. 
SEc. 18. If such heir or other person shall not, within one
month next after the decease of said husband, assign and set over
to the widow of the deceased to her satisfaction, her dower in and
to all lands, tenements and hereditaments, whereof by law she is
or may he dowable, according to the true intendment of law, then
such widow may sue for and recover the same, in the manner 
hereinafter prescribed, against such heir or other person having
the next immediate estate of freehold or inheritance, or tenant in
possession, or other person or persons claiming right or possession
m said estate. 
SEc. 19. Every widow claiming dower, may file her petition in
chancery, in the circuit court of the count)', against the parties
aforesaid, stating their names if known, setting forth the nature of
her claim, and particularly specifying the lands, tenements and
hereditaments in which she claims dower, and praying that the
same may be allowed to her; and the clerk shall thereupon issue
a summons to the parties, to appear at the next term of said court
to answer the complaint, which shall be served by the sheriff as
other writs and process. If the parties do not reside in the
county, said clerk shall cause an advertisement to be published, as
provided in sections eight, forty-one and forty-two of chapter
twenty-one of the revised statutes, notifying said parties that such
petition is filed, and requiring them or any of them to appear at the
next term of the circuit court, and show cause why such dower
should not be assigned; and which publication shall be deemed
due notice, and the parties aforesaid or any other person interested
therein, may appear and contest the widow's right to dower. 
SEc. 20. If there be persons interested in the same, whose
names are unknown, it shall be lawful to make such persons parties 
to such suits or proceedings, by the name and description of
persons unknown, or unknown heirs or devisees of any deceased
person, who may have been interested in the subject matter of
the suit previous to his or her death ; but in all such cases, an
affidavit shall be filed by the party desiring to make any unknown
person a party, stating that the names of such persons are
unknown ; and process shall be issued against all parties by the
name and description given as aforesaid; and notices given by
publication, as is required in the preceding section, shall be
sufficient to authorize the court to bear and determine the suit, as
though all parties had been sued by their proper names ; and all
decrees, orders, judgments and proceedings had or made under
the provisions of this chapter, respecting such unknown persons as
aforesaid, shall be as binding and conclusive upon the persons and
parties interested, as though they had been sued by their proper
names : Provided, That if any person residing out of this state, as 
aforesaid, against whom a decree is or shall be made, his heirs,
devisees, executor, administrator or assigns, as the case may 
require, shall, within one year after notice in writing given him or
them of such decree, or within three years after such decree, if 
no such notice shall have been given as aforesaid, appear in open
court and petition to be heard touching the matter of such decree,
and shall pay such costs as the court shall deem reasonable in that
behalf, the person so petitioning may appear and answer the
complainant's bill, and thereupon, such proceedings shall be had
as if the defendants had appeared in due season and no decree
had been made. The decree shall, after three years from the
making thereof, if not set aside in manner aforesaid, be deemed
and adjudged confirmed against such non-resident defendant, and
all persons claiming under him by virtne of any act done snb- .
sequent to the commencement of such suit; and at the end of the
said three years, the court may make such further order in the
premises, as shall be required and shall be just. 
SEc. 21. Answers to such petition shall be sworn to; and in all
cases where the claim of the widow to dower may be contested,
the parties contesting the same shall be required to enter their
appearance to the action, and the court shall thereupon proceed to 
try the cause, or direct an issue for that purpose, as the circumstances of the case may require. 
SEc. 22. "\Vhere any of the parties defendants are minors, and
under age, and without guardians, the court shall appoint guardians 
ad litem. for such minors. 
SEc. 23. Petitions for the recovery and assignment of dower,
shall be heard and determined by the court, upon the petition,
answer, exhibits and other testimony, without the necessity of
formal pleading. 
Sze. 24. Where the court adjudges that the widow shall
recover dower, it shall be so entered of record, together with a
description of the land out of which she is to be endowed; and
said court shall thereupon appoint three commissioners, not con- 
nected with any of the parties either by consanguinity or affinity,
and entirely disinterested; each of whom shall take the following
oath, to be administered by the court or some justice of the peace : 
"I do solemnly swear, that I will fairly and impartially allot and set otr to 
A- B-, widow of C- D-, her dower, out of the lands and tenements described
in the order of the court for that purpose, if the same can be made consistent with
die interest of the eiatate, according to the best of my judgment, so help me Go»." 
SEc. 25. The commissioners shall set off and allot to said widow
her c.lower by metes and bounds, according to quality and quantity 
of all the lands, tenements and hereditaments described in said
order of' court: Provided, The widow shall have the homestead 
or dwelling house of the husband, if she desire it; and make
return in writing under their bands and seals to said court ; 
which, if approved by said court, shall vest in her an estate in
the lands and tenements so set otf and allotted to her, for and
during her natural life ; or if such estate shall have been set off
and allotted to said widow by virtue of section fifteen of this
chapter, such estate shall be vested in her absolutely, in fee
simple and of inheritance forever, subject to her absolute use,
control and disposition, as though her interest therein had been
acquired by her when sole. 
Ssc, 26. \Vhen a widow has claim to dower in lands lying in
different counties, She may proceed ill the Circuit court Of the 
county where the lands lie; or if such lands lie in different
counties, then in the county in which the major part of such
lands lie ; but if the major part thereof do not lie in any one
county, then in any county in which any of the lands lie, and
make recovery in the manner as is herein directed ; and in all
cases when the report assigning dower shall be approved, the
court shall forthwith cause the widow to have possession, by a
writ directed to the sheriff for that purpose, and such widow shall
also be entitled to reasonable damages, to be awarded her from
the time of her demand, and refusal to assign her her reasonable
dower; which may Le assessed by the court, or a jury, if
required, shall be impanneled for that purpose, and execution may
issue therefore. 
SEc. 27. The widow may, in all cases, retain the full possession
of the dwelling house in which her husband most usually dwelt 
next before his death, together with the out-houses and plantation
thereto belonging, free from molestation and rent until her dower
be assigned. 
SEc. 28. If the commissioners aforesaid, shnll report that the
-1ands or other estate is not susceptible of a division without great
injury thereto, a jury shall be impannelled to inquire of the yearly
value of the widow's dower therein, and shall assess the same
accordingly ; and the court shall thereupon render a judgment, 
h h - b id h id 11 . 1· f d
at t ere e pat to sue wi ow as an a owance m ieu o ower, 
on a day therein named, the sum so assessed as the yearly value
of her dower, and the like sum on the same day in every year
thereafter during her natural life; and such jury shall, moreover,
if the same bas been done, assess the damngcs which may have
accrued, down to the time of rendering the verdict. 
SEc. 29. Commissioners appointed to assign dower, may make
reports to the court during the same term at which they were
appointed; and the court may, at such term, make all such orders.
upon such reports, as may be necessary to a. final disposition of 
the case.
SEc. 30. No woman that shall be endowed of nny lands, tene­ 
ments and hereditaments, shall wantonly or designedly commit or
suffer any waste thereon, on penalty of forfeiting that part of the
estate whereupon such waste shall be made, to him or thorn that
have the immediate estate of freehold or inheritance in remainder
or reversion (and in case of negligent or inndvertnnt waste), hy her
done or suffered ; the damages that may be assessed for such
waste, to be recovered by action of waste. 
SEc. 31. Heirs, or if under age, their guardians, or any other 
• d · l I h- di l
persons mtereste m anc s, tenements or ere itaments, may a so 
petition the court to have the widow's dower assigned, which
shall be proceeded in, in the same manner as is prescribed in other 
cases.
SEc. 32. Commissioners appointed to nssian <lower, shall be 
allowed each one dollar per day, to be taxed as "other costs.
SEC. 33. At the death of any widow who hath dower in lands or 
or estate of her deceased husband, such lands or estate shall descend
in accordance with the will of such husband; or if the husband shall
have died intestate, then to descend in accordance with the law
providing for the distribution of intestates' estate. 
SEc. 34. No widow who shall, as executrix or administratrix,
sell and convey by order of court, for the payment of debts, real 
estate of her husband, in which she shall be by law en titled to
dower, shall be deemed to relinquish her riuht of dower therein, 
by reason of such conveyance, unless her relinquishment shall be
specified in such deed or conveyance. 
Ii 'i 
(8.) sracnaxrcs' LIEN. /
[Ref'. Stat. 1$45, Chap. LXV.] 
SECTION 1. Any person who shall, hy contract with the owner
of any piece of land or town lot, furnish labor or materials for 
ereetine or repairing any building, or the appurtenances of any 
ii}' 
0 
h l :-,d I h }lr-.h l' 1 h l tr t 
u c mg on sue an or ot, s a ave n ion upon t ie w o e ac 
of land or town lot, in the manner herein provided, for the amount
due to him for such labor or materials. 
SEc. 2. The lien shall extend to all work done and materials
f 
. h d d h . • f h h h h ki d
urms e mi er t e provisions o t e contract, w et · er t e m or 
quantity of the work, or amount to be paid, be specified or not: 
Provided, That the time of completing the contract shall not be
extended for a longer period than three years, nor the time of pay­
ment beyond the period of one year, for the time stipulated for the
completion thereof: 
Sxc, 3. When any sum due by such contract shall remain unpaid 
ft h
• bl h di bill . . 
a er t e same is paya e, t e ere itor may, upon or petition to
the circuit court of the county in which the land or lot bes, obtain 
an order for the sale thereof, and for applying the proceeds of such
sale to the discharge of his demand ; and the filing of the bill or
petition in the clerk's office, and suing out a summons thereon,
shall be deemed the commencement of the suit.
. SEc. 4. The bill or petition shall contain a brief statement ofwbat 
the contract on which it is founded, and of the amount due thereon,
with a description of the premises which are subject to the lien, 
and all other material facts and circumstances necessary to a full
understanding of the rights of the parties, and shall be considered 
as the foundation of the plaintifff's action; and upon the filing of
which with the clerk, a summons shall issue thereon against all 
persons made parties as is required upon filing bills in chancery. 
Ssc, 5. For the purpose of bringing all parties in interest before
the court, the court shall have power to permit amendments to any 
part of the pleadings, and to issue process, make all orders requirmg parties to appear, and requiring notice to be given by publication
in newspapers, that are or may be authorized in proceedings in
chancery; and the court shall have the same power and [uris- 
diction over the parties and subject that are or may be conferred
upon courts in chancery in respect to proceedings before that court. 
SEC. 6. Suits instituted under the provisions of this chapter,
shall be placed upon the common law docket, and shall stand for 
trial at the term of the court to which the summons is made returnable. The summons shall be served by the sheriff as other process; 
but if not served ten days before the return clay thereof, the cause
shall be continued, unless the parties agree to a trial at that term 
of the court.
SEc. 7. Defendants, in proceedings under the provisions of this 
chapter, shall answer the bill or petition under oath, and the
plaintifff shall except or reply to the answer as thongh the pro­
ceeding was in chancery; the answer shall be regarded as the
plea of the defendant, and by the replication thereto, an issue or
issues shall be formed, which shall be tried by the court or by 
jury under the direction of the court, as the court may direct or
the parties agree. 
SEc. 8. Every defendant served with process ten days before
the return day thereof, shall answer the bill or petition on or before 
the clay on which the cause shall be set for trial on the docket,
and the issue or issues in the cause shall be made up under the 
di ' f h d l ' } 11 b ' d •
irection o t e court, an ora testimony s ia e receive as m 
eases at law.
SEC. 9. Notice given to parties by publication in newspapers, 
under the direction of the court, shall be equivalent to personal 
• f • 
service o such notice. 
SEc. lo. In proceedings under this chapter, all persons inter­
ested in the subject matter of the suit, or in the premises intended 
to be sold, may, on allplication to the court wherein the suit is 
pending, become parties at any time before final judgment. . 
SEc. 11. Upon questions arising between different creditors, no
preference shall be given to him whose contract was first made. 
SEC. 12. Upon the trial of causes under the provisions of this
h h h ll • h d h dl 
apter, t e court s a aseertam t e amount ne eac ere itor,
and shall direct the application of the proceeds of sales to be made
to each in proportion to their several amounts, 
SEc. 13. When the owner of the land shall have failed to per- 
form his part of the contract, and by reason thereof the other 
party shall, without his own default, have been prevented from
performing his part, he shall be entitled to a reasonable compen­
sation for as much thereof as he has performed in proportion to the
price stipulated for the whole, and the court shall adjust his claim
accordingly. 
SEc. 14. If any part of the premises can be separated from the
residue, and sold without damage to the whole, nnd if the value 
thereof should be sufficient to satisfy all the claims proved in the
cause, the court may order a sale of that part. 
SEC. 15. Parties entitled to liens under the provisions of this
chapter, whose claims are not due or payable at the time of the 
commencement of suit by any other party, shall be permitted to 
become parties to the suit, and their claims shall be allowed, sub­
ject: to a reduction of interest from the <late of judgment to the
time such claim is due or payable. 
SEC. 16. In cases under the provisions of this chapter, where
there are several claimants, the issue of law and fact, or either, may
be tried separately, and in no case shall the want of preparation
for trial to one claim, delay the trial in respect to others; but trials
shall be had upon issues between such parties as are prepared,
without reference to issues between other parties; and when one
creditor shall have obtained a verdict or judgment for the amount
due, the court may order a sale of the premises on which the lien
operates, or a part thereof, so as to satisfy the judgment : Provided, 
That the court may, for good causes shown, delay making any
order of sale until the rights of all parties in interest shall be
ascertained and settled by the court. 
SEc. 17. If the person who procures work to he done, or materials
furn' h h ~ • 
ts ed, as an estate ror hfe only, or any other estate loss than
fee simple in the land or lot on which the work is done, or 
materials furnished, or if such land or lot, at the time of making
the contract, is mortgaged, or under any other incumbrsnce, the
person who procures the work or materials, shall nevertheless be 
considered as the owner within the meaning of this chapter, to the
extent of his right and interest in the premises ; and the lien therein
provided for, shall bind his whole estate and interest therein in like
manner as a mortgage would have done ; and the creditor may
cause the right of redemption, or whatever other right or estate
such owner had in the land at the time of making the contract
to be sold, and the proceeds of sale applied according to the
provisions of this chapter. 
SEc. 18. Snits may be instituted under the provisions of this
chapter in favor of administrators or executors, and may be main- 
tained against the representatives in interest of those against whom 
the cause of action accrued ; and in suits instituted under the
provisions of this chapter, the representatives of any party who 
may die pending the suit, shall be made parties as though it were 
a snit in chancery. 
SEc. 19. Upon proceedings under the provisions of this chapter,
• I · • h h , • h 11 'th 
parties c aunmg may contest eac ot er s rig ts as we wi respect
to amount due, as with respect to their right to the benefit of the 
lien hereby created; and upon all questions made by parties, the
court shall require issues of law or fact to be formed, so as to bring
about a speedy decision thereof. 
SEc. 20. No encumbrance upon land created before or after the
making of a contract under the provisions of this chapter, shall
operate upon the building erected or materials furnished, until the
lien in favor of the person doing the work or furnishing the
materials shall have been satisfied ; and upon questions arising
between previous encumbrances and creditors, under the provisions 
of this chapter, the previous encumbrance shall be preferred to the
extent of the value of the land at the time of making the contract, 
and the court shall ascertain by jury or otherwise, as the case may
require, what proportion of the proceeds of any sale shall be paid 
to the several parties in interest. 
SEc. 21. Parties in interest, within the meaning of this chapter, 
shall include all persons who may have any legal or· equitable claim
to lands or lots upon which a lien may be attempted to be enforced 
under the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 22. Creditors who file bills or petitions under the provisions 
of this chapter may contest the validity of encumbrances, as well
in regard to amount as to their justice; and any incnmbrance, 
whether by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, charged 'and shown 
to be fraudulent in respect to such creditor, or in respect to
creditors ~enerally, may be set aside by the court, and the premises
made subject to the claim of the creditor freed and discharged
from such fraudulent encumbrance. 
SEc. 23. In proceedings under the provisions of this chapter,
th rt 
· d · ._h 11 h f rt f h
e con s are v este wit a t e powers o cou s o c ancery, 
and shall be governed by the rules of proceeding and decision in 
these courts, so far as that power may be necessary to carry into
full and complete effect the provisions hereof, and so far as those
rules of proceeding and decision are applicable to cases and 
questions presented for adjudication and decision. 
SRc. 24. No creditor shall be allowed to enforce the lien created
under the provisions of this chapter, as against or to the prejudice 
of any other creditor or any encumbrance, unless suit be instituted
to enforce such lien within six months after the last payment for
labor or materials shall have become due and payable. 
SEc. 25. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to prevent any creditor from maintaining an action at law upon
his contract, in like manner as if he had no lien for the security of 
his debt. 
SEc. 26. If, upon making sale of any premises under this chapter, the proceeds of such shall not be sufficient to pay the claims!~;~!~:~:~;.~ 
of all parties, according to their rights, the judgment shall be
credited by the amount of such sale, and execution may issue in
favor of any creditor whose claim is not satisfied, for the balance
due, as upon a judgment in actions of debt or assumpsit; and in
cases of excess of sales over the amount of judgment, such excess 
shall be paid to the owner of the land, or to the person who may
be entitled to the same, under the direction of the court. 
Sze, 27. The costs of proceeding under the provisions of this
chapter, as between creditors claiming liens and the person against
whom the lien is intended to be enforced, shall abide the event of
the suit; and the costs, as between creditors aforesaid, in contests
relative to each other's claims, shall be subject to the order of the
court, and the same rule shall prevail in respect to costs growing
out of proceedings against and between incwnberers. 
~.le, "-.'4- ~ ~ ·1,.7 ,4 ,-~y 
J -- 
(9.) PARTITIONS.
[R~ti. Stat. 1~, Chap. LXXI.T'.] 
SECTION I. ,,-rhen any lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall
be held in {. oint tenancy, tenancy in common or coparceuer.v, 
whether sue right or title be derived by purchase, devise or
descent, or whether any' all or a part of such claimants be of full 
age or minors, it shall be lawful for any one or more of the persons
interested, by themselves, if of· full age, or by their guardians, if
minors, to present to the circuit court of the county where such
lands or tenements lie, or, where the lands or tenements lie in
different counties, in the circuit court of the county in which the
major part of such lands lie ; but if the major part of such lands
do not lie in any one county, then to the circuit court of any
county in which any of such lands lie, their petition, praying for
a division and partition of such premises, according to the respect­
ive rights of the ·parties interested therein, and for a sale thereof,
if it shall appear that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners. 
Sze. 2. The petition shall particularly describe the premises
sought to be divided or sold, and shall set forth and make exhibits
of the rights and titles of all parties interested therein, so far as
the same are known to the petitioners, including tenants for years,
for life, by the courtesy or in dower ; and of persons entitled to
the reversion, remainder or inheritance; and of every person who,
upon any contingency, may be or become entitled to any bene­
ficial interest in the premises, so far as the same are known to the
petitioners; and such petition shall be verified by affidavit. 
SEc. 3. Every person having such interest as is specified in this
chapter, whether in possession or otherwise, and every person
entitled to dower in such premises, if the same has not been
admcasured, shall be made a party to such petition. 
SEc. 4. In cases where one or more of such parties shall be
unknown, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the parties
is unknown to the petitioner, or where such share or interest shall 
be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance
shall depend upon an cxecutory devise, or the remainder shall be 
contingent, so that such parties cannot be named, the same shall
be Ro stated in the petition. 
8Ec. 5. All persons interested in the premises of which partition
is sought to be made according to the xrovisions of this chapter, 
whose names are unknown, may be ma e parties to such petition,
by the name and description of unknown owners or proprietors of 
the premises, or as the unknown heirs of any person who may have
lteen interested in the· same. 
SEC. 6. All persons having such interest as is specified in this
chapter, in any premises of which partition is sought to be made, 
or the guardians of such as are under age, who shall not have
joined in .the petition (and if any person so interested be under age 
and without a. guardian, the court shall appoint a guardian, ad litem,
for such minor), shall have notice of such application by summons 
duly served, which summons shall issue against such/crsons by
the name and description given in the petition. An when the 
names of persons havin~ any such interest in such premises are
unknown, and when parties whose names are known do not reside
in this state or cannot be found, they shall have further notice by
advertisement, as provided in sections eight, forty-one and fortytwo of chapter twenty-one, and after said advertisement, the court
shall proceed to act in the premises as though the parties bad been
duly served with summons, or had been notified by their proper
names. 
SEc. 7. Durin~ the pendency of any such suit or proceeding,
any person claiming to be interested in the premises to be assi~ed 
or aparted, may appear and answer the petition, and assert his or
her rights, by way of interpleader ; and the court shall decide upon
the rights of persons appearing as aforesaid, as though they had
been mad~ parties in the first instance. 
SEC. 8. The court shall ascertain from the evidence, in case ofm{"
default, or from the confession by plea, of the parties, if they 
appear, or from the verdict, by which any issue of fact shall be
determined, and shall declare the rights, titles and interests of all
the parties to such proceedings, petitioners as well as defendants,
and give such judgment as may be required by the rights of the
parties. . 
SEc. 9. The court, when it shall order a partition of any premises to be made, under the provisions of this chapter, shall llP:point 
three commissioners, not connected with any of the parties, either
by consanguinity or affinity, and entirely disinterested; each of
whom shall take an oath before the court, or some justice of the
peace, fairly and impartially to make partition of said lands, in
accordance with the judgment of the court, as to the rights and
interests of parties, if the same can be done consistently with the
interests of the estate ; and the said commissioners shall go upon
the premises and make partition of said lands, tenements and
hereditaments, assigning to each party his or her share, by metes
and bounds ; and may make report, which shall be under their
hands and seals, to the court, during the same or next succeeding
term at which they were appointed; and the court may, at the
term when such report shall be made, make all such orders upon
such reports as may be necessary to a final disposition of the case. 
SEc. 10. The commissioners to be appointed under this chapter,
shall be allowed as a compensation for their services, one dollar 
per day each, to be taxed as other costs. 
SEc. 11. When any lands, houses or lots, are so circumstanced
th
di 
' · th f b d · h · ~ • •
at a vision ereo cannot e ma e wit out mamtest prejudice 
to the proprietors of the same, and the commissioners appointed to
divide the same shall so report to the court, the court shall there- 
upon give an order to said commissioners, or other person or
persons, to sell such lands, houses and lots, or houses and lots, at 
public vendue, upon such terms, and by giving notice of the sale,
as the court shall direct; and who shall make and execute goo«
and sufficient conveyance or conveyances to the purchaser or pur­
chasers thereof, which shall operate as an effectual bar, both in
law and equity, against such owners or proprietors, and all persons
claiming under them; and the commissioners or persons making
such sale, shall report their proceedings to the court, and shall pay
over the monies arising therefrom, to the parties entitled to receive
the same, under the direction of the court; the court to make such
order in relation to costs as shall seem right. • 
Sze. 12. When a sale of any lands or· premises shall be made,
in accordance with the preceding section, and no person shall
appear to claim such portions of the money as may belong to any
non-resident or person whose name is unknown, the csurt shall,
thereupon, rc9uire the money belonging to the persons not claim­
ing as aforesaid, to be deposited in the treasury of the state, subject
to the further order of the court; and all money required to be
deposited as aforesaid, shall be received by the state treasurer,
and paid out upon the order of the court. 
SEc. 13. "\Vhen money shall be deposited in the state treasury
under the provisions of this chapter, the person or persons entitled
to the same may, at any time, apply to the court making the order
of sale, and obtain an order for the same, upon making satisfactory
proof to the court of his, or her, or their right thereto. 
Ssc, 14. No plea in abatement shall be received in any snit for
partition, nor shall such suit abate by the death of any tenant. 
(10.) SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE IN CASE OP DEATH OP VE}i."'DOR. 
[R.i,, Stat. 1~, Ohap. XXJV.]
SECTION 31. When any person or persons who have heretofore 
entered, or may hereafter enter into anr contract, bond or memo­
randum in writing, to make a deed or title to land in this state, for 
a. valuable consideration, and shall depart this life, or have died
heretofore, without having executed and delivered said deed, it shall
and may be lawful for any court having chancery jurisdiction, in
the proper circuit in which such case shall arise, to make decree,
compelling the executors or administrators of such deceased person
to execute and deliver such deed to the party having such equitable
right as aforesaid to the same, or bis heirs, according to the true
intent and meaning of said contract, bond or memorandum of the
deceased ; and all such -deeds shall be good and valid in law. 
SEC. 32. It shall not be lawful for any court to make such decree
as aforesaid, except upon the petition, in writing, of the person
entitled to the benefit of the same, or his heirs, setting forth the
said contract, bond or memorandum in writing, and fully describing
the lands to be conveyed; nor until the person or persons so
applying for such title shall have given reasonable notice of the
time and place of such application to the executors, administrators
and heirs of such person so deceased as aforesaid, and shall have 
fully paid, discharged and fulfilled the consideration of such
~ontract, bond or memorandum in writing, according to the true 
intent, tenor and effect thereof
Ssc, 33. In all cases where any minor heirs shall be interested 
in such proceeding as aforesaid, reasonable notice of such applica• tion shall be given to the guardian or guardians of such minors; 
and if there shall be no guardian, then the said court shall appoint
a guardian or guardians to litigate and act in such case. 
Sso. 34. The executors, administrators or heirs of any deceased
person or persons who shall have made such contract, bond or 
memorandum in writing, as aforesaid, in his or her lifetime, for the
conveyance of land, for a valuable consideration, when such consideration has been paid and fulfilled as aforesaid, may, upon
application in writing, obtain such decree as aforesaid upon giving
notice to the party to w horn such deed is intended to be made, and
under the same condition as is provided in this chapter. 
SEc. 35. In all cases where application shall be made as aforesaid the court shall have power to continue the same from term to
term, to obtain such evidence as the nature of the case shall
require ; and no decree for the conveyance of land, upon applies·
tion as aforesaid, shall be made, unless the said courts shall be
satisfied that decree can be made without injustice to any heir or
creditor of the deceased, and that the same is just and equitable. 
Sao. 36. A complete record of such petition and proceedings
thereon shall be made, and the court shall decree payment of costs
as shall appear right and equitable. 
(11.) 
(12.) 
(13.)
{14.) 
(15.)
(16.) 
{1 '1.) 
JURISDICTION IN HATl'EBS OF ACCOUNT, 'Vide CIVIL PROCE·
DURE, 8UO-title B.EHJIDIES. 
JURISDICTION IN CASES RELATING TO AW ARDS, 'Viad CIVIL
PROCEDURE, sub-title REMEDIES. 
COSTS IN EQUITY, 'VW6 CIVIL PROCEDURE, sulJ-title COSTS. 
SPECIAL TERMS OF CHANCERY COURT, Viele JUDICIAL DEPART·
ME~""Ts, fflh-title cmCUIT COURTS. 
JURISDICTION OVER GAINING SECURITIES, ?Jide GAINING. 
JURISDICTION IN CASES BETWEEN LANDLORD AND TRY.ANT
WHERE LEASE IS FORFEITED, vid-e LANDLORD AND TENANT, 
JURISDICTION IN CASES OF TRUSTS CREATED FOR THE BEYEFIT
OF MARRIED WOMEN, 
[&,,. L<wJe Fib. 14, 1~7, p. 9.]
SECTION I. That in all cases where property, either real or 
personal, has been, or shnll be, conveyed to a trustee or trustees
for the use of any married woman, not coutled with any interest in
th h h 
, d
e trustee or trustees, or any person ot er t an sue marne 
woman, and such trustee or trustees shall die holding such trust, in 
all cases where it would be the duty of a court of chancery, upon
proper application being made, to appoint another trustee to carry
into effect the trust, it shall be lawful for said court of chancery, if, 
in the opinion of the chancellor, the interest of said married woman
would be promoted thereby, to decree that such married woman 
may bold and convey such property absolutely, and in her own
name, and the same shall not be subject to the debts of her husband. 
SEc. 2. This to take effect and be in force from and after its
passage. 
(18.) DECREE AGAIXST NON-RESIDENT DEFENDANTS.
[&,,. Lat&t Feb. is, 1861, p. 61.) 
SECTION 1. No omission heretofore made, or hereafter to be made,
by any clerk to issue, or sheriff to serve, any subpoena in chancery, 
summons or the process, against or upon any defendants to any
di 1 • h h b ffid . hall b h 
procee mg at aw or m c ancery, w o, y a avit, s es own
to be non-residents of the state, as required by the eighth section 
of the act to which this is an amendment, shall constitute any 
objection to the entry of any verdict, or the rendition of any decree
or judgment, nor shall any decree or judgment be reversed by
reason or on account of any such omission, unless the parties
objecting to the entry of such verdict, or the rendition of such
judgment or decree, or the reversal thereof, shall show, by evidence
satisfactory to the court, that the said defendants so alleged to be
non-residents were, at the time when service should have been
made, within the jurisdiction of the court, so that process could
have been served on them: Provided, however, Publication of 
notice shall have been made as required by said section eight of
chapter twenty-one of revised statutes of 1845. 
SEc. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage. 
(19.) INJUXCTION AG.A.INST JGDG)IENTS ON CONFESSION IN
CERTAIN CASES, 
[S.,tJ. LatctJ 1861, p. 108, s«. 4.] 
Whenever execution shall issue upon any judgment obtained
by confession, or warrant of attorney, upon any demand which 
shall not be due at the time of the entering of such judgment,
any defendant or defendants may stay proceedings, by injunction 
issued out of the circuit court of the county to which such execution shall have been directed, until the said demand shall have 
become due: Provided, That the party seeking such injunction
shall give bond as now required by law in cases of injunction. 
(20.) PERPETUATION OP TESTIMONY.
[RM,. Stat. 1~, Chap. XL.) 
SRCTION 19. In all cases hereafter, where any pe1·son or persons
shall desire to perpetuate the remembrance of any fact, matter or 
thingi, which may relate to the boundaries or improvements of
land,'name or former name of water courses; the name or former 
shall thereupon enter the same at large upon the records in his
office, and shall certify on the back of such deposition that the
same has been duly recorded, and return it to the person or persons
for whose benefit it shall have been taken. 
SEc. 22. All depositions taken in manner and form as is pro­
vided in the two foregoing sections, or a duly certified copy of the
record of any such deposition, may, in case of the death of any
such deponent, or in case of inability to give testimony, in conse­
quence of his, her or their insanity or imbecility of mind or body,
or where such witness shall be rendered incompetent by judgment
of law, or in the event of his, her or their removal, so that their
testimony can not be obtained in the ordinary way, on trial, may
be used as evidence in any case to which the same may relate:
Provided, That nothing herein contained, shall be so construed as
to prevent any legal exception being made and allowed to the
reading of any such deposition in any trial at law or in equity, in
which the same may be introduced as evidence. 
(21.) ORAL EVIDENCE UPON HEARING.
[&at. Law 1849, p. 188.] 
l SEC~IdON 1. Tha}t hercaftcfr <?nhthe tril : al iffof anydsufiit din chanceryb·,
t ie evi ence on t ie part o eit er P amt or e en ant may e 
given orallv under the same rules and regulations as evidence in 
J ' , • • 
cases at common law: Procided, however, That depositions taken
in pursuance of law may still be read in evidence, as if this act had
not been passed. 
~~.~~I. Ti"'~ '~JJ ,a,,, J.rz. 
4- .... +.,:'...r .,.I/ ~ t9·, 4~~) 
CILUIPERTY, vms CRIMINAL CODE. 
CHANGE OF VENUE, vms CIVIL PROCEDURE. 
CHARITIES. 
(1.) RELIEF OF THE DLIXD, DEAF .A.ND DUMB, AND THE INSANE. 
DEA.I!' AND DC'MB.
[&8a. Law Feb. 23, 1889, p. 162.] 
Sscrrox I. That Thomas Carlin, Daniel G. Whitney and
Thomas Cole, of Adams county; Otway ,vilkinson, Samuel D.
Lockwood, Joseph Duncan, Dennis Rockwell, ,vmiam Thomas,
Julian .1\f. Sturdevant, George l\f. Chambers, Samuel l\I. Prosser,
Porter Clay and Mathew Stacy, of .Morgan county; Richard F . 
the same to the proper assessor, to be by him assessed upon the
property liable to the same, on the warrant for the collection of
state and county taxes, to be collected by the same officer, in the
same manner, and paid to the proper board of commissioners, to
be by them applied to the proper objects; and any court having
jurisdiction is hereby required to enforce the assessment and col­
lection of taxes, and the performance of all duties prescribed in
this section, by bill in chancery, by injunction, and other proper
process. And all such amounts, so assessed, collected and paid 
over to said commissioners, shall, from time to time, be invested or
used in the purchase up of the bonds to be issued as above named
and provided, at the lowest rates at which the same can be
obtained, whether at or below par; and when so purchased the
same shall be canceled and made void. 
CIVIL LAW, VIDE WILLS, DESCENT, DISTRIBUTION
Mi.1D ADMINISTRATION. 
I. JURISDICTION, VIDE JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT .L~ 
JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND CONSTABLES . 
[Rff. Stal. OluJp. Vll.]
SECTION 1. All persons having the requisite legal capacity, may, 
by an instrument in writing, to be signed and sealed by them, and
attested by at least one witness, submit to one or more arbitrators,
any controversy existing between them, not in suit; and may in 
such submission agree, that a judgment of any court of record
competent to have jurisdiction of the subject matter, to be named 
in such instrument, shall be rendered upon the award made
P
ursuant to such submission.
SEc. 2. Whenever the parties to any suit pending in any court 
of record, shall be desirous and willing to submit matters involved
in such suit to the decision of arbitrators, an order shall be 
entered directing such submission to· three impartial and competent persons, to be named in such order; such arbitrators to be
agreed upon and named by the parties. But if the parties are
unable to agree, each shall name one, and the court the third. 
27 
CIVIL PROCEDURE. 
. 2. REMEDIES. 
(1.) BY THE ACT OF THE INJURED PARTY. 
1. ARBITRATIONS AND AWARDS. 
SEc. 3. The arbitrators appointed in pursuance of the foregoing
provisions, or. a majority of them, shall proceed with diligence to 
hear and determine the matters in controversy. They shall
&J>point a place and time for hearing, and adjourn the same from
tune to time as may be necessary. And on the application of
either J>&rtY, and for good cause, they may postpone such hearing 
ft-om time to time, not extending beyond the next term of the
court in which the said suit is pending, if the subject matter 
be in suit.
SEC. 4. Before proceeding to hear any testimony in the cause, 
the arbitrators shall be sworn, faithfully and fairly to bear and
examine and determine the cause, according to the principles of
equity and justice; and to make a just and true award according
to the best of their understanding, which oath may be administered
by any justice of the peace, or clerk of the circuit court, in which 
the suit is pending.
SEc. 5. The several clerks of the circuit courts, and the justices 
of the peace in their several counties, may issue subpoenas for the
attendance of witnesses before arbitrators : If any witness, after 
being duly summoned, shall fail to attend, the arbitrators may
issue an attachment to compel his attendance, and the said witness
shall, moreover, be liable to the party for refusing to attend the
same as in trials at law. Any one of the arbitrators may adminis­
ter oaths and affirmations to witnesses; they mny punish contempts
committed in their presence during the hearing of a cause, the
same as a court of record, and may admit depositions to be read
in evidence, the same as in trials at law. 
SEc. 6. The award of the arbitrators, or a majority of them,
shall be drawn up in writing, and signed by such arbitrators, or a 
majority of them, and a true copy of such award shall, without
delay, be delivered to each of the parties thereto. 
SEc. 7. If either of the parties shall neglect to comply with
said award, the other party may at ant time within one year 
' 
from the time of such failure, file sue award, together with
the submission or arbitration bond, in the court named in the
submission. 
SEc. 8. The party filing such award may, at the next term
after such filing, by giving four days' notice of his intention, to 
the opposite party, and if no legal exceptions are taken to such
award or other proceedings, have final judgment thereon, as on
the verdict of a jury, for the sum specified in said award to be
due, together with the costs of arbitration and of the court ; and
execution may be issued therefore as in other cases. 
SEc. 9. When the award requires the performance of any act
other than the payment of money, the court rendering such judg­ 
ment shall enforce the same by rule, and the party refusing or
neglecting to comply with such rule, may be proceeded against
by attachment or otherwise, as for a. contempt. 
SEc. 10. If any legal defects appear in the award, or other
proceedings, or if it shall be made to appear on oath.or affirmation 
that said award was obtained by fraud, corruption or other undue
means, or that such arbitrators misbehaved, said court may set
aside such award. 
Sao, 11. If there be any evident miscalculation or misdescrip- ,
tion, or if the arbitrators shall appear to have awarded upon
matters not submitted to them, not affecting the merits of the 
decision upon the matters submitted, or where the award shall be
imperfect in some matter of form, not affecting the merits of the
controversy ; and where such errors and defects, if in a verdict,
could have been lawfully amended or disregarded by the court,
any party aggrieved may move the court to modify or correct 
such award. 
SEC. 12. Application to set aside, modify or amend such award,
as provided - in the two preceding sections, must be made before 
the entry of final judgment on such award: Provided, Nothing
herein contained shall be so construed as to deprive courts ofEqu1t1
chancery of their jurisdiction, as in other cases. 
SEC. 13. Writs of error and appeals may be taken from any
decision of the court by the party deeming himself aggrieved, as 
in other cases ; and if the supreme court shall remand the case,
such further proceedings shall be had as the nature of the case
may require. . 
SEC. 14. Each arbitrator shall be allowed for every day's attend- 
th
b
· f hi • d 11 to b · d • 
ance to e usmess o s appomtment, one o ar, e par m
the first instance by the party in whose favor the award shall be
made, but to be recovered of the other party with the other costs 
of suit, if the award or final decision shall entitle the prevailing
party to recover costs. Witnesses shall receive the same fees for 
attendance at arbitrations as shall be allowed them in the circuit
courts. Sheriffs, constables, clerks and justices of the peace, shall
be entitled to the same fees for services performed in relation to
any arbitration, as shall be allowed by law for the like services in
their respective courts. 
SEc. 15. Arbitrators may be compelled by order of the court in
which any cause submitted to them shall be pending, to proceed 
to a hearing thereof, and to make report without unnecessary
delay. · 
SEC. ·16. When any cause pending in any court, shall be
referred, as herein provided, an entry of such reference shall be 
made on the record, and day shall be given to the parties, from
time to time, until the arbitrators report, or they be thereof
discharged, on filing such report. 
2. DISTRESS, vi<le LANDLORD AND TENANT, AND PARTITIO:N FENCES. 
(2.) REllEDIF.S WHICH THE LAWS FURNISH TO THE INJURED PARTY. 
1. ACCOUNT.
[R~. /Jtat. 18415, ()hap,' IL] 
SECTION. I. When one or more joint tenants, tenants in common,
or copareeners in real estate, or any interest therein, shall take and 
use the profits and benefits thereof, in greater proportion than his,
. her or their -, interest, such person or persons, his, her or their 
executors and administrators, shall account therefore to his or their
cotenants jointly or severally. 
S~c. 2. Joint tenants, tenants in common, and coparoeners in any
estate, real or personal, may maintain actions of account against
their cotenants, who receive as bailiffs more than their due pro­
portion of the profits and benefits of such estate. 
SEc. 3. Any executor, being a residuary legatee, may bring and
maintain an action of account against his coexecutor ; and any
other residuary legatee shall have the same remedy against
executors and administrators. · 
Sze, 4. Actions of account may be maintained by and against
executors and administrators in all cases in which the same might
have been maintained by and against their testator or intestate. 
SEc. 6. The original process in actions of account, shall be the
same as is provided by law for other personal actions, and shall be
served and returned in the same manner. 
SEc. 6. When any person is or shall be liable to account, as 
guardian, bailiff or receiver, or otherwise, to another, and will not
give an account willingly, the party to whom such an account
ought to be made, may bring his action of account, and if the per­
son against whom such action may be brought, being summoned,
does not appear at the return of the writ, then the defendant shall
be attached by his body to appear and render his account. 
SEc. 7. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered against any
defendant, that he account, the court shall appoint not more than 
five nor less than three able, disinterested and judicious men as
auditors, to take the account, who shall, before they enter on their
duties, be sworn faithfully and impartially to take and state the
account between the parties, and make report to the court. 
SEc. 8. Such auditors, or a majority of them, shall have power
to appoint the time and place for the hearing, and shall give reason­
able notice to the parties; and if the defendant shall neglect or
refuse to attend at the time and place appointed and render his
account, or appearing shall not render an account, the auditors
shall receive a statement of the account from the plaintifff, and
award to him the whole sum he claims to be due. 
SEC. 9. If the parties appear, and produce their books and
accounts before the said auditors, such auditors or a majority of
them, shall proceed to take and state the accounts, and may take
the testimony of witnesses, and examine either or both of the 
parties on oath, respecting their accounts; and may administer all
necessary oaths to witnesses and parties. If either party shall 
refuse to be sworn, or answer proper questions respecting his
accounts, the auditors, or a majority of them, may commit him to 
Jail, there t~ remain until he consent to be sworn, or answer the
mterrogatories, 
SEc. 1 O. The auditors, or a majority of them, shall liquidate and
adjust the accounts, and state the balance, and to whom due. 
They, or a majority of those present, shall report to the court by
whom they were appointed, at the next term thereof; and if such
report shall be approved by the court, the court shall render judg­
ment for the amount ascertained to be due, with costs; and the
party in whose favor the report is made, shall pay the auditors
their fees, which shall be taxed as costs. 
SEc. 11. Either party may appeal or prosecute a writ of error,
from the final judgment upon the report of the auditors, in the 
same manner, and upon the same conditions, as provided by law
in other cases. 
SEc. 12. Nothing in this chapter contained, shall be so construed
as to deprive courts of chancery of their jurisdiction in matters of
account. 
2. DETINUE. 
[Rn. &at. 18-ffl, ()Aap. XXXIJ.] 
SECTION. 1. In all actions of detinue, where the plaintifff shall
office of the clerk of the court in which such action is to~&:~~~ 
be commenced, an affidavit on the oath or affirmation of the
plaintifff or some other credible person, stating that the property, 
to recover which such action is about to be commenced, ts the
property of the plaintifff, stating the value thereof, and that the
defendant unlawfully detains the same, the clerk shall issue a writ
of capias in detinue, and indorse the amount so sworn to, and direct
the sheriff to take bail in double that sum. 
SEc. 2. It shall be the duty of any sheriff to whom a writ
of capias in detinue shall be directed, to take the body of the 
defendant and commit him to the common jail of the county,
unless he shall enter into a bond to the plaintifff, conditioned that
judgment shall be rendered in such action against him, he will 
deliver to the plaintifff the property which shall be thereby
recovered, and pay all damages which shall be assessed for the
detention thereof, and costs of suit : the sheriff shall return such
bond with the writ, as in other cases. 
SEc •. 3. If any sheriff shall return any such writ executed, and
shall not have the body of the defendant nccording to the com- 
mand of the writ, or return a bond, as is provided in the preceding
section, or the bond returned shall be adjud~ed insufficient by the
court, and the defendant shall fail to perfect his bail if ruled
thereto, the sheriff shall be made a codefendant and may defend
the suit upon the pleas of the defendant, and shall be subject to
the same judgment and recovery as the defendant, and be joined
therein. All questions concermng the sufficiency of such bond
shall be determined during the return term. 
Sze, 4. When any bond as aforesaid shall be forfeited, the
plaintifff shall have the same remedy against the bail, and the bail
shall have the same remedy against the principal, and the sheriff,
when made a codefendant, shall have the same remedy against the
principal and bail, as is or may be provided by law in cases of
bail in other civil causes, and the same proceedings shall be had
thereon. 
SEc. 5. Any court out of which any writ as aforesaid shall issue,
or any judge thereof in vacation, may reduce the sum for which 
bail is demanded, and the court ma7 accept the surrender of the
defendant, and cancel such bond, in the same manner, for the 
like causes, and with the like effect, as in other cases of bail in
civil actions. 
SEC. 6. All actions commenced in manner aforesaid, shall be
conducted and proceeded on in all thin~s according to the prin- 
ciples and usages of law in actions of detmue. If any verdict for
the plaintifff shall omit the price, or value or damages for detention,
the cou,rt may, at any time, award an inquiry to ascertain the same. 
3. EJBCTMENT.
[BIO. Blal. 18'G (Jl,ap. XXXYJ.] 
•
SECTION I. The action of ejectment shall be retained, and may 
be brought in the cases and the manner heretofore accustomed,
subieet to the provisions hereinafter contained. 
J 
S I al b b h 
EC. 2. t may so e roug t :
I th . hi h . f . h b 
Ist, n e same cases· m w 10 a wnt o ng t may now e
brought by law to recover lands, tenements or hereditaments, and
by_ any p~rson claiming an estate therein in fee or for life, either as 
heir, devisee or purchaser. 
2c1. By any _widow entitled to dower, or by a woman so entitled
and her husband after the expiration of six months from the time 
• ' 
her nght accrued, to recover her dower of any lands, tenements or
hereditaments, 
Ssc. 3. No person shall recover in ejectment, unless he has, at
the time of commencing the action, a valid subsisting interest in 
the premises claimed, and a right to recover the same, or to recover
the possession thereof, or of some share, interest or portion thereof,
to be proved and established at the trial. 
SEc. 4. If the premises for which the action is brought, are
actually occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall be 
named defendant in the declaration ; if they are not so occupied,
the action shall be brought against some person exercising acts of
ownership on the prenuses claimed, or claiming title thereto, or
some interest therem, at the commencement of the suit. 
SEC, 5. 1'he action shall be commenced by the service of a
declaration, in which the names of the real claimants shall be
inserted as plaintifffs ; and all the provisions of law concerning
lessors of a plaintifff, shall apply to such plaintifffs. 
SEc. 6. The use of fictitious names of plaintifffs or defendants,
and of the names of any other than the real claimants and the real
defendants, and the statements of any lease or demise to the
plaintifff, and of an ejectment by a casual or nominal ejector, are
hereby abolished. 
SEc. 7. It shall be sufficient for the plaintifff to aver in his
declaration that ( on some day therein to be specified, and which
shall be after his title accrued) he was possessed of the premises
in question ( describing them as hereinafter provided), and being
so-possessed thereof, that the defendant afterward (on some day
to be stated) entered into such premises, and that he unlawfully
withholds from the plaintifff the possession thereof, to his damage
any nominal sum the plaintifff shall think proper to state; and the
premises so claimed shall be described in such declaration with
convenient certainty, so that, from such description, possession of.
the premises claimed, may be delivered. If such plaintifff claims
any undivided share or interest in any premises, he shall state the
same particularly in such declaration. 
SEc. 8. If the action be brought for the recovery of dower,
declaration shall state that the plaintifff was possessed of the one 
undivided third part of the premises, as her reasonable dower, as
widow of her husband, naming him. In every other case the
plaintifff shall state whether he claims in fee, or whether he claims 
such attorney, or other competent witness, shall be sufficient
presumptive evidence of such authority. · 
Sxc. 16. If it shall appear that, previous to such application by
any defendant, he was served with a. copy of the affidavit of the
plaintifff's attorney, showing his authority to bring such action,
such application shall be dismissed; and such defendant shall be 
liable for the costs of such application, the payment of which may
be compelled by attachment, as in other cases, which may be issued
upon proof of disobedience to the order of the court or officer
directing the payment of such costs. 
SEc. 1 7. The defendant may demur to the declaration ns in
personal actions, or he shall plead the general issue only, which
shall be that the defendant is not guilty of unlawfully withholding
the premises claimed by the plaintifff, as alleged in the declaration ;
and the filing of such plea or demurrer shall be deemed an appearance in the cause ; and upon such plea, the defendant may give
the same matter in evidence, and the same proceedings shall be
bad, as upon the plea of not guilty in the present action of ejectmcnt, except as herein otherwise provided. The defendant may
likewise give in evidence any matter which, if pleaded in the
present writ of right, or action of dower, would bar the action of
the plaintifff. 
SEc. 18. The consent rule heretofore used is hereby abolished.
SEc. 19. It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to prove an 
actual entry under title, nor the actual receipt of any of the profits
of the premises demanded ; but it shall be sufficient for him to
show a right to the possession of such premises at the time of the
commencement of the suit, as heir, devisee, purchaser or otherwise. 
SEc. 20. It shall not be necessary on the trial for the defendant
to confess, nor for the plaintifff to prove lease, entry and ouster, or 
either of them, except as provided in the next section ; but this
section shall not be construed to impair, nor in any way to affect
any of the rules of evidence now in force in regard to the
maintenance and defense of the action. 
SEc. 21. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in
common, or joint tenants against their cotenants, the plaintifff, in
addition to all other evidence which he may be bound to give,
shall be required to prove, on the trial of the cause, that the
defendant actually ousted such plaintifff, or did some other act
amounting to a total denial of bis right as such cotenant. 
Ssc. 22. If the action be brought against several defendants,
and a joint possession of all be proved, the plaintifff shall be 
entitled to a verdict against all, whether they shall have pleaded
separately or jointly. 
SEc. 23. When the action is against several defendants, if it
appear on the trial, that any of them occupy distinct parcels, in
severalty or jointly, the plaintifff shall elect, at the trial, against
which he will proceed; which election shall be made before the
testimony in the cause shall be deemed to be closed ; and a verdict
shall thereupon be rendered for the defendants not so proceeded
against. 
SEc. 24-. In the following cases the verdict shall be rendered as
follows: 
1st. If it be shown on the trial, that all the plaintifffs have a
right to recover the possession of the premises, the verdict in that
respect shall be· for the plaintifffs generally. 
2d. If it appear that one or more of the plaintifffs have a right 
to the possession of the premises, and that one or more have not
such right, the verdict shall specify for which plaintifff the jury
find, and as to which plaintifff they find for the defendant. 
ad. If the verdict be for any plaintifff, and there be several
defendants, the verdict shall be rendered against such of them as
were in possession of the premises, or as claimed title thereto at
the commencement of the action. 
4th. If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, as specified
in the declaration, it shall, in that respect, be for such premises
generally. 
5th. If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in
such declaration, the verdict shall particularly specify such part,
as the same shall have been proved, with the same certainty
hereinbefore required in the description of the premises claimed. 
6th. If the verdict be for an undivided share or interest in the
premises claimed, it shall specify such share or interest; and
for an undivided share in a part of the premises claimed, it shall
specify such share, and shall describe such part of the premises,
as hereinbefore required. 
7th. The verdict shall also specify the estate which shall have
been established on the trial, by the plaintifff in whose favor
shall be rendered, whether such estate be in fee, for his own life,
or for the life of another, stating such lives; or whether it be for
a term of years, and specifying the duration of such term. 
SEC. 25. If the right or title of a plaintifff in ejectment expire
after the commencement of the suit, but before trial, the verdict 
shall be returned according to the fact, and judgment shall be
entered that he recover his damages by reason of the withholding
of the premises by the defendant, to be assessed ; and that as to 
the premises claimed, the defendant go thereoff without day. 
SEc. 26. The action of ejeetment shall not be abated by the
death of any plaintifff, or of one of several defendants, after issue
and before verdict and judgment, but the same proceedings may
be had as in other actions, to substitute the names of those who
may succeed to the title of the plaintifff so dying; in which case
the issue shall be tried as between the original parties ; and in 
case of the death of a. defendant, the cause shall proceed against 
the other defendants. 
SEc. 27. In cases where no other provision is made, the judg-Judgment.
ment in the action, if the plaintifff' prevail, shall be, that the plaintifff 
recover the possession of the premises according to the verdict of
the jury, if there was such verdict; or, if the judgment be by
default, according to the description thereof in the declaration,
with costs to be taxed. 
SEc. 28. The ~lain tiff recovering judgment shall be entitled to 
a writ of possession, which shall be substantially in the following
form: 
Tli.e Pe<Yjie, eto., to t!UJ Sheri.ff, etc. :
"Wnnus, A- B-has lately, in the circuit court held in and for the county 
of -- by the judgment of the said court, recovered against C- D-, one
messuage, etc. (describing the premises recovered with· the like certainty as
above provided), which said premisoe have been and are still unjustly withheld
from the said A- B- by the said 0- D-, whereof he is convicted, as appears 
to us of record ; and forasmuch as it is adjudged in the said court that the said
A- B- have execution upon his said judgment against the said C- D-, 
according to the force, form and eft'ect of his tiaid recovery:· 
"Tuuuoaz, We command you, that, withoui delay, you deliver to the said 
A- B-, poeeeasion of the premises so recovered with the appurtenances ; and
thai you certify to, etc., at, etc., on, etc., in what manner you shall have executed
this writ. (If there be costs to be collected, the proper clause may be here inserted,
or a separate execution may be issued therefore.) 
"Witne88, etc." 
SEc. 29. Every judgment in the action of ejectment, rendered
upon a verdict, shall be conclusive as to the title established in 
such action, upon the party against whom the same is rendered,
and against all persons claiming from, through or under such party,
by title accruing after the commencement of such action, subject
to the exceptions hereinafter named. 
SEc. SO. The court in which such judgment shall be rendered,
at any time within one year thereafter, upon the application of the
party against whom the same was rendered, his heirs or assigns,
and, upon the payment of all costs and damages recovered thereby,
shall vacate such judgment and grant a new trial in such cause ;
and the court, upon subsequent application made within one year
after the rendering of the second judgment in said cause, if
satisfied that justice will thereby be promoted and the rights of the
parties more satisfactorily ascertained and established, may vacate
the judgment and grant another new trial; but no more than two
new trials shall be granted under this section. 
SEC. 31. Every judgment in ejectment rendered by default,
shall, from and after two years from the time of entering the same, 
be conclusive upon the defendant, and upon all persons claiming
from or through him by title accruing after the commencement of
the action ; but within two years after the entering of such judg­
ment, on the application of the defendant, his heirs or assigns, and
upon the payment of all costs and damages recovered thereby, the
court may vacate such judgment and grant a new trial, if such
court shall be satisfied that justice will be promoted and the rights 
of the parties more satisfactorily ascertained and established.
Sso. 32. But if' the defendant in such declaration, at the time of 
the entering of the judgment by default, be either, Ist, within the
age of twenty-one years; or, 2d, insane; or, 3d, imprisoned on any 
criminal charge, or in execution upon some conviction of a criminal
offense for any term less than for life; or, 4th, a married woman,
the time during which such disability shall continue, shall not be
deemed any portion of the said two years; but any such person
may bring an action for the recovery of such premises after that
time, and within two years after such disability shall be removed,
but not after that period. 
SEc. 33. If the person entitled to commence such action shall
die during the continuance of any disability specified in the 
preceding section, and no determination or judgment be had of
or upon the title, right or action so to him accrued, his heirs may
commence such action after the time above limited for that purpose,
and within two years after his death. 
SEc. 34. If the plaintifff shall have taken possession of the
premises by virtue of any recovery in ejectment, such possession 
shall not in any way be affected by the vacating of any judgment
as herein provided; and if the defendant recover in any new trial
hereby authorized, he shall be entitled to a writ of possession in
the same manner as if he were plaintifff. 
SEc. -35. Upon any new trial granted as hereinafter provided,
the defendant may show any matters in bar of a recovery, which 
219
CIVIL PROCEDURE.
pART II.] 
he might show to entitle him to the possession of the premises if
he were plaintifff' in the action. 
(Mesne Pro.flt8.)
SEC. 36. The plaintifff recovering judgment in ejectment in any Suggestion tor 
of the cases in which such action may be maintained, shall also be f1Wffl4I protlt.a. 
entitled to recover damages against the defendant for the rents
and profits of the premises recovered. 
SEc. 87. Instead of the action of trespass for 'l7U!8'Tl,6 profits
heretofore used, the plaintifff seeking to recover such damages
shall, within one year after the entering of the judgment, make
and file a suggestion of such claim, which shall be entered, with
the proceedings thereon, upon the record of such judgment, or be
attached thereto as a continuation of the same. 
SEc. 88. Such suggestion shall be substantially in the same form
as is now in use for a declaration in an action of assumpsit for the
use and occupation, as near as may be ; and it shall be served
on the defendant in the same manner hereinbefore prescribed
respecting the service of a declaration in ejectment; and the same
rules of pleading thereto shall be observed as upon declarations in
personal actions. 
SEc. 89. The defendant may plead the general issue of non­
assumpsit, and, under such plea, may give notice of or may plead
specially any matter in bar of such claim, except such as were or
might have been controverted in such action of ejectment; but he
may plead or give notice of a recovery by such defendant, or any
other person, of the same premises, or of part thereof, subsequent
to the verdict in such action of ejectment, in bar or in mitigation
of the damages claimed by the plaintifff 
SEc. 40. If any issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, it
shall be tried as in other cases ; and if such issue be found for the
plaintifff, the same jury shall assess bis damages to the amount of'
the meene profits received by the defendant since he entered into
possession of "the premises, subject to the restrictions hereinafter
contained. 
SEc. 41. On the trial of such issue, the plaintifff shall be required
to establish and the defendant may controvert, the time when such
defendant entered into the possession of the premises, the time
during which he enjoyed the mesne profits thereof, and the value
of such profits; and the record of the recovery in the action
of ejectment shall not be evidence of such time. On such trial
the defendant shall have the same right to set off an1, improve­
ments made on the premises, to the amount of the plaintifff''a claim,
as is now or shall hereafter be allowed by law ; and in estimating
the plaintifff's damages, the value of the nee by the defendant of
any improvements made by him shall not be allowed to the plaintifff. 
SEc. 42. If no issue of fact be joined on such suggestion, or if
judgment thereon be rendered against the defendant by default,
on demurrer or otherwise, a writ of inquiry, to assess the value of
such mesne profits shall be issued, of the execution of which the
same notice shall be given to the defendant o~ his attorney as in
other cases. 
SEc. 48. Upon the execution of such writ, the plaintifff shall be
required to establish the same matters hereinbefore required in the
case of an issue being joined, and the defendant may in like
manner controvert the same and make any set-off to which he shall 
Digitized by Google 
be entitled ; and the jury shall assess the damages in the same
manner. The same proceedings shall be had on such writ, and it
shall be returned as in other cases, with the inquisition taken
thereon. Upon such inquisition, or upon the verdict of the jury in
the case of the issue being joined, the court shall render judgment
as in actions of assumpsit, for use and occupation, which shall have
the like effect in all respects. 
SEc. 44. If the plaintifff in ejectment shall have died after issue
joined or judgment therein, his personal representatives may enter
a suggestion of such death, of the granting letters testamentary or
of administration to them, and may suggest their claim to the
mesne profits of the premises recovered, in the same manner and
with the like effect as the deceased; and the same proceedings in
all respects shall be had thereon. 
(Recovery of dower in this action.) 
SEc. 45. If the action be brought to recover the dower of any
widow, which shall not have been admeasured to her before the
commencement of such action, instead of a writ of possession
being issued, such plaintifff shall proceed to have her dower
assigned to her in manner following : . 
I. Upon the rendition of judgment, the court, upon the motion
of the plaintifff, shall appoint three respectable and disinterested
freeholders, commissioners for the purpose of setting off and allot­
ing to the plaintifff her dower out of the lands described in the
record ; and the commissioners so appointed shall proceed in like
manner, possess the like powers and be subject to the like obliga­
tions and control, as commissioners appointed pursuant to law to
make assignment of dower and partition of real estate. 
2. Upon the npproval of the report of the commissioners by the
court, a writ of possession shall he issued to the· sheriff of the
proper county, describing the premises assigned for the dower and
commanding the sheriff to put the plaintifff in possession thereof 
SEc. 46. The commissioners to be appointed under this chapter,
shall be allowed as compensation for their services, the sum of two
dollars per day each, to be taxed as other costs. 
( Occupying claimants.) 
SEC. 47. Every person who may hereafter be evicted from
any land for which he can show a plain, clear and connected title
in law or equity, deduced from the record of some public office,
without actual notice of an adverse title in like manner derived
from record, shall be exempt and free from all and every species
of action, writ or prosecution, for, or on account of any rents, or
profits or damages, which shall have been done, accrued or
incurred at any time prior to receipt of actual notice of the adverse
claim, by which the eviction may be effected, provided such person
obtained peaceable possession of the land. 
SEc. 48. The court who shall pronounce and give judgment of
eviction, either in law or equity, shall, at the time, nominate seven
fit persons, any five of whom Rhall have power, and it shall be their
duty to go on the premises, and, after viewing the same, on oath
or affirmation, to assess the value of all suoh lasting and valuable
improvements which shall have been made thereon prior to the
receipt of such notice as aforesaid; and, also, to assess all damages 
the land may have sustained by the commission of any kind of 
waste, or by deduction of soil by cultivation, or otherwise, during
the occupancy of the person evicted, and subtract the same from
the estimated value of the said improvements, which assessment,
signed and sealed by the persons making the same, shall be by
them lodged with the clerk of the court wherein they were norm­ 
nated, before the next ensuing term, or as soon thereafter as may
be convenient; and at the next court, after such assessment, it
shall be entered up as a judgment in favor of the person evicted,
and against the successful claimant of the land, by the clerk ; upon
which judgment execution shall immediately be issued by the
clerk, if directed by the person evicted, unless the successful
claimant shall give bond and security, to be jud~ed of by the
court, to the person evicted, and to be taken at the time of entering
up such judgment, conditioned to pay the same within twelve
months from the date thereof, with five per cent. interest thereon :
Provided, The balance shall ultimately be in favor of such occupy­
ing claimant, according to the directions and provisions of this
chapter, which bond shall have the force of a judgment, and at the
expiration of twelve months aforesaid, an execution shall be issued
upon the same by the clerk of the court in which it was taken, at
the request of the party entitled thereto, on oath being made that
the same is yet due. Should the balance be in favor of the
successful claimant, judgment, in like manner, shall be entered up
in his favor, against the other party, for the amount of the same,
upon which execution may be issued as aforesaid, unless bond and
security be given to such claimant, which may be acted upon in
the manner before directed, and to declare what shall be the law
between adverse claimants under distinct titles of the kinds
aforesaid after notice. 
SEc. 49. The persons nominated by the court, as aforesaid,
when making an assessment, shall carefully distinguish between
such improvements as were made on the land prior to notice and
those which were made after notice; and when making an assess­
ment, they shall also take into consideration all such necessary and
lasting improvements as shall have been made on the lands after
the receipt of such notice as aforesaid, and shall ascertain the
amount of the value thereof; and they shall also take into consid­
eration and ascertain the amount of the rent and profits arising from
the whole of the improvements on the land from the time that notice
of such adverse claim was received by such occupying claimant,
and then, after taking the amount of one from the other, the
balance shall be added or subtracted from the amount of the value
of the improvements which shall have been made before the receipt
of the notice aforesaid, as the nature of the case shall require. 
SEc. 50. The commissioners shall also estimate the value of the
lands in dispute exclusive of any improvements that shall have
been made thereon, and make report of the amount of such valua­
tion to the court; and if the value of the improvements shall
exceed such estimated value of the land in dispute, in that case it
shall and may be lawful for the proprietor of the better title to
transfer or convey, as the nature of the case may require, his better
title to the occupying claimant, and thereupon judgment shall be
entered up in his favor, against the occupying claimant, for such
estimated value, upon which an execution may issue, unless the
occupying claimant shall give bond and security, to be approved
by the court, to pay the amount of such judgment within one year 
after the person transferring or conveying, as aforesaid, with 
interest from the date, which bond shall have the force of a judg­
ment, and if not paid at the expiration of the year, an execution
may issue, in the manner before directed by this chapter:
Provided, That the proprietor of the better title shall, in every
such case, at the time of entering up judgment in his favor, give
bond and security, to be approved by the court, to the occupying
claimant, to refund the amount of such judgment, in case the land
so transferred or conveyed shall ever thereafter be taken from him
by any other prior or better claim, 
SEc. 51. The persons nominated by the court, by virtue of this
chapter, shall be called commissioners, and shall respectively take
an oath or affirmation to do equal right to the parties in contro­
versy; and shall also have power and authority to call witnesses
and administer the necessary oaths, and to examine them for the
ascertainment of any fact material in the inquiry and assessment
by this chapter directed. 
SEc. 52. The said commissioners, in making every estimate of
value by virtue of this chapter, shall state separately the result of
each, and the court shall have power to make such allowance to
the said commissioners, in any case, as shall seem just, which
allowance shall be taxed and collected as costs : Provided; That
this chapter shall not be extended to affect or impair the obligation
of contracts, or to authorize the occupying claimant to be twice
paid for his improvements ; and in all cases where the occupying
claimant is paid for his improvements by any other person than the
proprietor of the better title, such person shall have the same
redress as is allowed to the occupying claimant. 
SEc. 53. The court shall have the same power to proceed by 
appointing commissioners to assess the value of improvements,
and the damages by the commission of any kind of waste, by
reduction of soil, by cultivation or otherwise, during the occupancy
of the person evicted in case of arbitration, or by consent of the
parties, on motion, without suit. 
SEc. 54. Notice of any adverse claim or titl~ to the land, within
the meaning of this chapter, shall have been given by bringing a
suit, either in law or equity, for the same, by the one or other of
the parties, and may hereafter be given by bringing a suit as afore­
said, or by delivenng an attested copy of the entry, survey or
patent from which he derives his title or claim, or leaving any such
copy with the party, his wife, or other free person above the age
of sixteen yea.rs, on the plantation: Provided, Iunoeoer, That notice
given by the delivery of an attested copy, as aforesaid, shall be void,
unless suit is brought within one year thereafter : Provided, That
in no case shall the proprietor of the better title be obliged to pay
to the occupyin~ claimant, for improvements made after notice,
more than what is equal to the rents and profits aforesaid. 
SEc. 55. Notice to any occupying claimant shall bind all those
claiming from, by or through such occupying claimant, to the extent
of such claim. 
( Precept to stay 11Jaste.)
Ssc. 56. Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to 
prevent any court from issuing a precept to stay waste, and ruling
the party to give bond and security in such manner as such court 
may think right. . ' 
(Ejectmem ha8ed upon po88usion of the pwlic lands.)
SEc. 51. In all cases in which any person has heretofore entered 
upon and occupied, or shall hereafter enter upon and occupy, any
lands, tenements or hereditaments within . this state, by virtue of 
any lease or permit, from the United States or this state, such
person, his, her or their heirs or assigns, may have and maintain
an action of ejectment against any person who has or may enter
upon such lands, tenements or hereditaments without the consent
of such lessee, his, her or their heirs or assigns, and proof of the
right of possession shall be sufficient to authorize a recovery. 
4. .MANDAMUS.
[R~. Stal. 18't5, <JNzp. LXVIJ.] 
SECTION 1. The respective circuit courts in this state shall have
power to issue writs of mandamus. Appeals may be taken from
the decision of the said courts, upon such terms as the said circuit 
h
11 
[&a. uw,, FNJ. 15, 18M, p. 188.] 
SECTION 1. That it shall not be necessary in trials of actions of
eiectment when it shall appear by the return that the defendant 
:., , · 
AMEND.A.TORY ACT. 
or defendants were in possession of the premises at the time when
suit was brought, for the plaintifff to prove that said defendant or 
defendants were in possession at the time of bringing such suit,
unless the defendant or defendants shall, by special plea, deny that
he, she or they were in possession, and that the :plea. of not guilty
shall not put in issue the possession of said premises. 
SEc. 2. That so much of chapter thirty-six of the revised
statutes of 1845, entitled "Ejectment," as is repugnant to the
provisions of this act, be, and the same is hereby, repealed. 
This act to take effect and be in force from and after its passage. 
ib . f b d h
courts s a prescn e; or, writs o error may e prosecute , w en- 
ever the supreme court, or any of the judges thereof in vacation,
upon being presented with a cohy of the record, shall certify that 
th
• bl ~ b · • f h it d th 
ere is reasona e cause ror t e rmgmg o sue wn ; an e
said supr~~e court, or judge in ':ac~tion, may impose such t~nns 
. and conditions upon the party wishing to prosecute such writ of
error, as the said court or judge may deem reasonable. The allowance of a writ of error shall operate, after notice thereof, as a
stay of proceedings in the circuit court until the determination
of such writ of error. 
SEc. 2. When any writ of mandamus shall be issued out of any
court of this state, directed and delivered to any person or persons, who, by the laws of this state, are required to make return of
such writ, such person or persons shall make his or their return to
the first writ of mandamus. 
SEc. 3. When any writ of mandamus shall issue out of any
court of this state, and return shall be made thereunto, it shall be
lawful for the person or persons suing or prosecuting such writ, to
plead to or traverse all or any of the material facts contained in
such return; to which the person or persons making such returns 
shall reply, take issue or demur, and such further proceedings shall
be had therein, and in such manner, for the determination thereof,
as might have been had if the :eerson or persons suing out such
writ had brought his or their action on the case for a false return.
If any issue shall be Joined upon such proceedings, the person or
persons suing such wnt, shall and may try the same, in such place
as an issue joined on such action on the case should or might have
been tried. In case a verdict shall be found for the person or
persons suing such writ, or judgment given for him or them upon
a demurrer, or by nihil dicit, or for want of a replication or other
pleading, he or they shall recover his or their damages and costs,
m such manner as he or they might have done in an action on the
case as aforesaid; such damages and costs shall and may be levied
by execution, as in other cases, and a peremptory writ of manda­
mus shall be granted without delay for him or them for whom
judgment shall be given, as might have been if such return had
been adjudged insufficient. In case judgment shall be given for
the person or persons making such return to such writ, he or they
shall recover his or their costs of suit, to be levied in manner
aforesaid. 
SEc. 4. If any damages shall be recovered by virtue of the pro­
visions of this chapter, against any person or persons making such
returns to such writ as aforesaid, he or they shall not be liable to 
be sued in any other action or suit for the making of such return,
any law, usage or custom to the contrary notwithstanding. 
SEc. 5. It shall and may be lawful to and for the court issuing
any writ of mandamus, to allow to such person or persons respec­
tively, to whom such writ shall be directed, or to the person or
persous who shall sue or prosecute the same, such convement time,
respectively, to make return, plead, reply, rejoin or demur, as to 
the court shall seem just and reasonable, anything herein contained 
to the contrary notwithstanding. 
5. QUO W ARRA.NTO.
[Rn. Stat. 184ll, Ohap. LX'XXVL] 
SECTION 1. In case any person or persons shall usurp, intrude
into, or unlawfully hold or execute, any office or franchise, it shall 
anfdhmay be la~ful .for ~h1e ahttorn1 ey gefneral, ?r t~e circuit attohr~be!t
o t e proper circuit, wit 1 t e eave o any circuit court, to ex 1 1 
to such court, one or more information or informations, in the
nature of a quo viarranto, at the relation of any person or persons 
desiring- to sue or prosecute the same, who shall be mentioned in
such information or informations, as the relator or relators against
such person or persons so usurping, intruding into, or unlawfully
holding or executing any such office or franchise, and to proceed
therein in such manner as is usual in cases of informations in the
nature of quo soarranto. If it shall appear to said court that the
several rights of divers persons to the same office or franchise,
may properly be determined on one information, it shall and may
be lawful for the said court to give leave to exhibit one such infor­
mation against several persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such office or franchise; and such person or persons
against whom such in formation or informations in the nature of a 
quo soarranto shall be sued or prosecuted, shall appear and plead, 
• 
AMEND.A.TORY ACT OF FEBimARY 12, 1853. 
[&,,. Law 1~, p. 181.]
SECTION I. That in all cases of information in the nature of a. 
quo ioarranto, the relator may cause a. copy of the information,
together with a. notice of the commencement of such proceedings,
to be delivered to any defendant or defendants, or body politic and
corporate, interested in such proceedings, and residing or being
without this state, not less than forty days previous to the com·
mencement of the term at which such defendants ma.y be required
to appear, which service, when proved to the court by the oath or
deposition of any person competent to be a witness in the cause,
shall be as effectual as if such service had been made in the usual
form within the limits of this state. 
SEc. 2. In essea of such service on any incorporated com·
pany, it will be sufficient to make the same upon the president, 
or the principal clerk or cashier, secretary or principal agent, or
superintendent of such company. 
6. REPLEVIN.
[Rec,. StaJ. 1846, Clap. UIIVJIJ.] 
SECTION 1. Whenever any goods or chattels shall have been
wrongfully distrained, or otherwise wrongfully taken, or shall be
wrongfully detained, an action of replevin may be brought for the 
recovery of such goods or chattels, by the owner or person entitled
to their possession. 
SEc. 2. No action of replevin shall lie at the suit of the defendant
in any execution or attachment, to recover goods or chattels seized
by virtue thereof, unles~ such goods and chattels are exemp~d, by 
law, from such execution or attachment; nor shall an action of
replevin lie for such goods and chattels at the suit of any other
person, unless he shall, at the time, have a right to reduce into his
possession the goods taken. 
Sze, 3. The person or persons bringing such action, or some
one in his, her or their behalf, shall, before any writ shall issue,
make oath or affirmation before the clerk of the circuit court, or
any justice of the peace of the proper county, that the plaintifff in
such action is the owner of the property described in the writ and
about to be replevied, or that he is then lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof'; and that the same has not been taken for any
tax, assessment or fine, levied by virtue of any law of this state;
nor seized under any execution or attachment against the goods
and chattels of such plaintifff, liable to execution or attachment. 
Sze. 4. Before the execution of any writ of replevin, the party
suing out such writ, shall give bond to the sheriff, with good and
sufficient security, in double the value of the property about to be
replevied, conditioned that he or they. will prosecute such suit to
effect, and without delay, and make return of the property, if
return thereof shall be awarded, and save and keep harmless the
said sheriff in replevying such property; and the sheriff shall, there­
upon, serve such writ, and deliver the property therein mentioned
to the party suing out such writ. 
Sxc. 5. The proceedings in an action of replevin shall be com­
menced by plaint, with a summons to the defendant, in which 
shall be stated a description of the property to be replevied, and
the sheriff shall return the bond by him taken, together with the
writ, to the clerk who shall file the same. 
SEc. 6. If any plaintifff in the action of replevin shall fail to
prosecute his suit with effect, and without delay, or shall suffer
a nonsuit or discontinuance, or if the right of property shall be
adjudged against him, the court shall give judgment for a return
of the property taken, and damages for the use of the property
from the time it was taken until return thereof shall be made;
and if judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall recover dam­
ages for the detention of such property while in the possession of
the defendant; and the damages in either case shall be assessed
by the jury, in case of a trial; but if the plaintifff shall not prose­
cute his snit, or if judgment shall in any manner be given for the
defendant, without a trial, the damages in such case may be
assessed by the court, on hearing such testimony a\ may be offered 
on the subject. · 
SEc. 7. If at any time the condition of the bond required by the
fourth section of this chapter shall be broken, the sheriff, or 
plaintifff in the name of the sheriff, to his own use, as the case may
be, may sue and maintain an action on such bond, for the recovery
of such damages as may have been sustained in consequence of
the breach of such condition. 
SEc. 8. If any sheriff shall fail to 'take and return a bond, as
required by the fourth section of this chapter, or shall return an 
insufficient bond, such sheriff shall pay to the party injured, all
damages which he may sustain or be put to, in consequence of
such neglect; to be recovered by an action on the case in the
circuit court. 
SEc. 9. It shall be sufficient for the defendant, in all cases of
replevin for distress taken for rent, to avow or make cognizance
generally, without particularly setting forth the tenure or title to
the lands whereon such distress was taken. 
SEc. 10. When the oath required in section three, is made by
another in behalf of the claimant, it shall be sufficient to state that
he belives the facts stated in such affidavit to be true. 
AlIE~,>ATORY .ACT, MARCH 1, 1847. 
[~. LaW4 18'7, &c. 1, p. 62.J 
That in all actions upon replevin bonds, where the merits of the
case have not been determined in the trial of the action of replevin 
in which the hon? was givci_i, the defendant ma~ pie.ad the. abo!e
facts, and also his or her title to the property m dispute in said 
ti f l ·
ac ion o rep evm, 
AllE~,>A.TORY ACT, FEB, 15, 1851. 
[&#. Latu 1El61, p. 107.) 
SECTION I. That whenever in any action of replevin the goods 
d
h 1
'fi d ' h • f 1 • t b 1 • d 
an c atte s speer e m t c wnt o rep evm o e rep evie cannot
be found by the officer having such writ, or shall not have been
delivered to the officer, the defendant shall be summoned, by 
virtue of such writ, by the officer reading the same to him, to
appear and answer to the plaintifff's action for the recovery of
the value of such property. Such reading of the writ to have the
the same force and effect as the service of' summons in other
actions. 
. SEch. 2. .In hsuc11h actbion .... of rdeplevin,1 in. cdase thhe
1p1roperth 
y nabmed
m sue wnt s a not e ronn or rep evie , or s a not ave een 
delivered as aforesaid, and the defendant shall have been summoned as aforesaid, the plaintifff may file his declaration in trover,
and the cause shall be heard and determined as other actions of
trover; and the plaintifff, if he shall recover, shall be entitled to
judgment and execution for the value of such property, or of his
mterest therein, and such damages as he shall have sustained by
reason of the wrongful taking or detention thereof, together with
the costs of suit. 
7. TRIAL OF i'IIE RIGHT OF PROPERTY, »ide RIGHT OF PROPERTY. 
8. SCIRE FA.CIAS To' FORECLOSE llORTGAGE, »ide JUDGlIEYTS A.~
EXECL"TIO:SS. 
(8.) PROCESS. 
1. ATI'ACHMENTS.
[Rff. Stat. 1846, Chop. IX.) 
SECTION 1. If any creditor, his agent or attorney, shall file an
affidavit in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of any county 
!ntothi~ state, setting fodi:th that any pder11son is in~ebtedh to such credd-- 
1 r, m a sum excee mg twenty o ars, stating t e nature an
amount of such indebtedness as near as may be, and that such 
debtor has departed, or is about to depart, from this state, with the
intention of having his effects removed from this state; or is about
to remove his property from this state, to the injury of such cred­
itor; or that such debtor conceals himself, or stands in defiance of 
an officer, so that process can not be served upon him; or is not a. 
• d f hi • h 11 b 1 f l "'- h k •
resi ent o t ts state; it s a e aw u tor sue cler to rssue a 
writ of attachment, directed to the sheriff of his county, returnable
like other writs, commanding him to attach the lands, tenements,
goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies and effects of said debtor, 
of every kind, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to satisfy
the claim sworn to, with interest and costs of suit, in whose hands
or possession the same may be found. _ 
SEc. 2. The writ of attachment required in the preceding
section shall be substantially in the following fonn: 
"The PeOJU of tk 8tal.e of llli1U>U, to tl~ Sheri.ff of-- Cuimty, Greeting: 
"Wmr:aus, A- B- (or agent or attorney of A- B-, u the case may be.)
hath complained on oath (or affirmation) to--, clerk of the circuit court of-­
county, that C- D- ie justly indebted to the said A- B- to the amount of--,
and oath (or affirmation) having been also made, that the said C- D- resides out
of this state, or absconds, or conceals himself or herself, or stands In defiance of
a civil officer authorized to arrest him or her w:th civil process, so that the
ordinary process of Jaw cannot be served upon him, or ii about to depart
this state with intention to have his etrecta and personal estate removed with­ 
out the limits of the same, or has left. tho state with the intention of having
his effects and personal estate removed therefrom (as the case may be), and
the said -- having given bond and security according to the directions of the
act in such case made aud provided : We thereforee command you, that you
attach BO much of the estate, real or personal, of the said C- D-, to be found
in your county, u shall be of value sufficient to satisfy the said debt and coets,
according to the complaint; and such estate so attached in your bands to secure,
or so to provide, that the same may be liable to further proceedings thereupon, ac­ 
cording to law, at a court to be holden at--, for thecouutj of--, upon the
-- day of -- next. so as to compel the said C- D- to appear and anewer the 
complaint of the said A- B-, and that you aliao summon -- as garnishee, to be 
and appear at the said court on the said -- day of -- next, then and there io
answer to what may be objected against him, when and where you shall make known 
to the said court bow you hsve executed this writ; and have you then and there
this writ. 
WITNESS,--, clerk of the said court, this -- day of-- in t.he year of our
Lord," ete., 
II 
Which attachment shall be signed by the clerk, and the seal of
the court affixed thereto. 
SEc. 3. Such officers shall, without delay, execute such writ of
attachment upon the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, rights,
credits, monies and effects of the debtor, of sufficient value to 
satisfy the claim sworn to, with costs of suit, as commanded in said
writ./ If the defendant, or any peri;;on for him, shall be in the act 
of removing any personal property, the officer may pursue and 
" • 
take the same in any county in this state, and return the same to 
-:c .c. s 
the county from which such attachment issued. He shall also
serve said writ upon the defendant therein if he can be found, by 
reading the same to him, or delivering a copy thereof. The return
to such writ shall state the particular manner in which the same 
was served.
SEc. 4. Every clerk, before granting an attachment as aforesaid, 
shall take bond and security from the party for whom the same
shall be issued, his or her agent or attorney, payable to the defend· 
ant in double the sum sworn to be due, conditioned for satisfying
all costs which may be awarded to such defendant, or to any others
interested in said proceedings, all damages which shall be recovered
against the plaintifff for wrongfully suing out such attachment;
":hich bond, with affidavit or affirmation of the party complaining,
his or her agent or attorney, shall be filed in the office of the clerk
granting the attachment. Every attachment issued without a bond
and affidavit taken and returned as aforesaid, is hereby declared
illegal and void, and shall be dismissed. 
SEc. 5. The condition of the bond required in the preceding
section, shall be substantially in the followmg form: 
"Tn CORDffiOR O'f TRIS OBLlOaJO!f 18 SUCH, That whereas the above bounden-hath, on the day of the date hereof, prayed an attachment out of the circuit court of 
Mid county, at the suit of--, against the estate of the above named --, for the
sum of--, and the same being about to be sued out of said court, retumable on the
-- day of-- next, to the term of the court then to be holden : Now if the !aid
-- shall proaecute hie suit with eft'ect, or in case of failure therein, shall well and
truly pay and satisfy the said --, all such costs in said suit, and such da1na~es u
shall be awarded against the said -. -, his heirs, executors or administrators, m any
suit or suits which may hereafter be brought for wrongfully sulng out the said attach­
ment, then the above obligation to be void, otherwise to remain in full force and effect." 
SEc. 6. In all cases where two or more persons are jointly
indebted, either as partners or otherwise, and an affidavit shall be 
filed as provided in the first section of this chapter, so as to bring
one or more of such joint debtors within its provisions, and amenable to the process of attachment, then the writ of attachment shall
issue against the property and effects of such as are so brought
within the provisions of this chapter; and the officer shall be also
directed in said writ to summon all such joint debtors as may be
named in the affidavit filed in the case, to answer to the said
action, as in other cases of attachment. 
SEc. 7. It shall be sufficient in all cases of attachment, to desigd 
f d b hei d b d • '
nate e en ants y t err repute names, y surnames, an joint 
defendants by their separate or partnership names, or by such
names, styles or titles as they are usually known; and heirs, executors and administrators of deceased defendants shall be subject 
to the provisions of this chapter, in all cases in which it may be
applicable to them. 
~EC. 8. No writ of attachment hereafter to be issued shall be
quashed, nor the property taken thereon restored, nor any garni- 
Hulhee dischdarged? norh any ~~dd. byh himdgiven cancetlefd, no~ anfy
r e entere against t e sheriff isc arge , on aecoun o any msu · 
fieiencv of the original affidavit, writ of attachment or attachment
bond, if the plaintifff, or some credible person for him, shall cause
a. legal and sufficient affidavit or attachment bond to be filed, or
the writ to be amended in such time and manner as the courts
shall in their discretion direct; and in that event the cause shall
proceed as if such proceedings had originally been sufficient: Pro- 
vided, That in case any plea in abatement traversing the facts in
the affidavit shall be filed, and a trial shall be thereon had, if the 
issue shall be founct for the defendant, the attachment shall be
quashed. 
SEc. 9. The officer serving the writ, shall take and retain the
custody and possession of the property attached, to answer and 
abide by the judgment of the court, unless the person in whose
possession the same may be found, shall enter into bond and secu­
rity to the officer, to be approved by him, in double the value of the
property so attached, with condition that the said estate and prop­
erty shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in 
said suit. The sheriff shall return such bond to the court in which
the suit is brought, on the first day of the term to which such
attachment is returnable. 
SEc. 1 o. If such bond shall be forfeited, the sheriff may assign
such bond to the plaintifff in the attachment, by a writing thereon,
under his hand, in the presence of two or more credible witnesses,
and after such assignment the plainti1t may bring a suit in his own
name thereupon. If the plaintifff will not accept such assignment
of such bond, and the court shall adjudge such security insuffi­
cient, such sheriff shall be subject to the same Judgment and
recovery, and have the same liberty of defense, as if he had been
made defendant in the attachment, unless good and sufficient secu­
rity shall be given, and bond filed during the term of the court
to which such attachment is returnable, at which term the objec­
tions to the sufficiency of the security taken shall be made to
entitle the party suing out the attachment to proceed against the
sheriff; and execution may issue thereupon as in other cases of
judgment, And whenever the Judgment of the plaintifff, or any
part thereof, shall be paid or satisfied by any such sheriff, he shall
have the same remedy against the defendant for the amount so
paid by him, as is now provided by law for bail against their
principal, where a judgment is paid or satisfied by them . 
SEc. 11. If the sheriff shall fail to return a bond taken by virtue
of the provisions of this chapter, or shall have neglected to take 
one when he ought to have done so, in any attachment issued
under any provisions of this chapter, the plaintifff in the attach­
ment may cause a rule to be entered at auy time during the first
two days of the term, to which the writ is returnable, requiring
the said sheriff to return the said. bond; in case no bond has been
taken, to show cause why such bond was not taken. If the said
sheriff shall not return the said bond within one day thereafter, or
show legal and sufficient cause why the said bond had not" been
taken, judgment shall be entered up against him for the amount of
the plaintifff's demand, with costs of suit; execution may there­
upon issue for the same, whenever judgment shall have been entered
against the defendant in the attachment. 
..__ SEC. 12. ,vhen the sheriff shall be unable to find property of
any defendant sufficient to satisfy any attachment issued under 
the provisions of this chapter, he is hereby required to summon all
persons/within his county, whom the creditor shall designate, as
having any property, effects, or choses in action, in their posses­
sion or power belonging to the defendant, or who are in any wise
indebted to such defendant, to appear before the court to which
the writ is returnable, on the return day of the attachment, then
and there to answer upon oath, what amount they are indebted to 
/ > 
and discover on oath or affirmation, as by this chapter is directed,
it shall be lawful for the court, after solemnly calling the garnishee,
and such court is hereby authorized and required, to enter a condi­
tional judgment against such garnishee, and thereupon a scir~ 
f aciWJ shall issue against such garnishee, returnable to the next
term of the court, to show cause, if" any be have, why final judg­
ment should not be entered against him upon such scire faci<u
being duly executed and returned; if such garnishee shall fail to
appear accordingly, and discover on oath or affirmation in the
manner aforesaid, the court shall confirm such judgment and
award execution for the plaintifff's whole judgment and costs; and
if, upon the examination of any garnishee, it shall appear to the
court that there is any of the defendant's estate in the hands of
any person or persons who have not been summoned, such court
shall, upon motion of the plaintifff, grant a judicial attachment, to
he levied upon the property in the hands of such person or persons
having any of the estate of the defendant in his or their possession
or custody, who shall appear and answer, and be liable as other
garnishees. When any garnishee shall deliver to the sheriff all
the goods, chattels and effects whatsoever, found or confessed to
be in his or her possession belonging to the defendant, or any part
thereof, the same shall be received in discharge of so much of the
judgment as the same shall be appraised to by the jury aforesaid,
who shall inquire and return the value thereof, according to the
evidence which may be submitted to them relative thereto. 
SEC. 17. Whenever judgment shall be rendered against any
garnishee, and it shall appear that the debt from him to the 
defendant in the attachment is not yet due, execution shall not
issue against him until twenty days after the same shall become
due ; nor shall judgment be rendered against a garnishee, for a
debt founded on a negotiable instrument, unless the same shall be
due at the time of rendering the judgment. 
SEc. 18. If any such writ of attachment shall be served as aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for any such plaintifff, at any time 
during the return term of the said court, to prepare, exhibit and
file, all and singular such allegations and interrogatories in writing,
upon which he or she shall be desirous to obtain, and compel the
answer of any and every garnishee, touching the lands, tenements,
goods, chattels, monies, credits and effects of the said defendants,
and the value thereof, in his, her or their possession, custody or
charge, or from him, her or them, due and owing to the said
defendant at the time of the service of the said writ, or at any time
after, or which shall or may thereafter become due; and it shall be
the dutr of each and every such garnishee, to exhibit and file
under his oath or affirmation, on or before the third day of the next
succeeding term, full, direct and true answers to all and singular 
- 
the allegations and interrogatories by the said plaintifff supported,
exhibited and filed, in the manner hereinbefore directed and
described. 
SEC. 19. Wheneyer the plaintifff in any attachment shall allege,
that any garnishee summoned in such attachment, hath not dis­ 
covered the true amount of debts due from him to the defendant,
or what goods and chattels belonging to the defendant are in his
or her possession, the court shall direct, without the formality of
pleading, a jury to be empanneled immediately (unless good cause
he shown by either party for a continuance), to inquire what is the 
true amount due from such' garnishee to the defendant, and what
goods and chattels- are in his possession, belonging to the defendant. Upon such examination, witnesses may be examined by the
respective parties, as in ordinary cases. If the findin~ of the jury
shall be against such garnishee, the court shall grant Judgment in
the same manner as if the facts found by the jury had been con
fessed by him or her, on his or her examination, and costs of
inquest; and if the jury find in favor of the garnishee, he shall
recover his costs against the plaintiit 
SEc. 20. Where any witness resides out of the state, or out of
the county in which any attachment may be pending, and in which
the testimony of such witness may be required, it shall be lawful
for either party or garnishee in such attachment, on filing interrogatories with the clerk of the court from which such attachment has
issued, and giving ten days' notice of the time and place of taking
such testimony, by serving e. copy of such notice on the opposite
party, or if such party shall be absent from, or reside out of the
county, then by affixing a notice in writing thereof on the door of
the court house of such county, at least ten days before the day
set for the taking thereof, to obtain a commission from the clerk of
the court to take the testimony of such witnese or witnesses on
such interroiatories; such exammation may be read on the trial, on 
motion of either of the parties or gamishee, . 
SEc. 21. In all cases of attachment, any person other than the
defendant claiming the property attached, may interplead without giving bail, but the property attached shall not thereby be
replevied; and the court shall immediately (unless good cause be 
shown by either party for a continuance) direct a jury to be
empanneled to inquire into the right of property; in all cases
where the jury find for a claimant, such claimant shall be entitled
to his costs; and where the jury find for the plaintifff in the
attachment, such plaintifff' shall recover hie costs against such
claimant. 
SEc. 22. If judgment by default shall be entered on any attachment against the estate of the defendant, in any court of this state, 
no execution shall issue thereon except against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, on which the attachment may have been
served, or against a garnishee or garnishees who shall have money
or other property in his or their hands belonging to the defendant
if the defendant shall apl?ear, put in bail and plead to the suit, the
judgment rendered therein shall have the same force and effect as 
if a capios ad re,spondendum had been served on - the person of the
defendant. 
Sze, 23. When any goods and chattels shall be levied on by
virtue of any attachment, and the sheriff or other proper officer, in 
whose custody such goods and chattels are, shall be of opinion that
the same are of a perishable nature, and in danger of immediate
waste and decay, such sheriff or other officer, as aforesaid, shall
summon three respectable freeholders of his county, who shall
examine the goods and chattels so levied on; and if the said freeholders shall, on oath or affirmation, certify that, in their opinion,
they are of a perishable nature, and in danger of immediate waste
and decay, and if the person or persons to whom such goods and
chattels belong, his, her or their agent or attorney, shall not within
twenty days after serving such attachment, replevy the same, then
such goods and chattels shall be sold at public vendue by the 
30 
SEc. 34. This chapter shall be construed in all courts in the
most liberal manner for the detection of fraud. 
SEc. 35. The provisions of chapter one of the revised statutes,
shall be applicable as well to proceedings in attachment as to
other cases. 
A.KXNDATOBY ACT.
[&,,. Law l',b, 17, 1561, p. 180.J 
SECTION I. That upon the return of attachments issued in aid
of actions pending, unless it shall appear that the defendant or 
defendants have been served with process in the original cause,
notice of the pcndency of the suit, and of the issue and levy of the
attachment, shall be published as is required in cases of original
attachment ; and such publication shall be sufficient to entitle the
plaintifff to judgment, and the right to proceed thereon against the
property and estate attached, and against garnishees, in the same
manner, to the same extent, and with like effects, as if the suit had
been commenced by attachment. 
SEc. 2. In actions now pending in court, plaintifffs may give the
notice and proceed therein under the provisions of this act. 
This act shall take effect on the first day of March next. 
2. CAPIAS.
[R~i,. Stat. 1846, Chap. XIV.] 
SECTIO:Y I. No person shall be permitted to be special bail in 
any action, unless he be a householder and resident within this
state, and of sufficient property, if the writ or process is sued out 
of the supreme court, or if it issue out of any circuit court, unless
he be a householder of sufficient property, and resident in the
county in which the court is held; and no counselor or attorney
at law, sheriff, under sheriff, bailiff, or other person concerned in
the execution of process, shall be permitted to be special bail in
any action. 
SEc. 2. In all actions to be commenced in any court of record
in this state, and founded upon any speciality, bill or note in writing, 
or on the judgment of any court, foreign or domestic, and in all
actions of covenant and account, and actions on verbal contracts 
or assumpsits in law, in which the plaintifff or other credible person
can ascertain the sum due, or damages sustained, and that the same
will be in danger of being lost, or that the benefit of whatever
judgment may be obtained will be in danger, unless the defendant
or defendants be held to bail, and shall make affidavit thereof
before the clerk of the court from which proceRs issues, or a jus­
tice of the peace of this state ; or if the plaintifff reside out of this
state, before any judge of a. court of record, or notary public, or
officer of the state or kingdom in which he resides, or [who] may be
duly authorized to administer an oath ; and such affidavit shall be
dehvered to such clerk, who shall issue a capias and indorsc thereon
an order or direction to the sheriff or officer to whom such process
shall be directed, to hold the defendant or defendants to bail, in
the sum so specified in such affidavit; and it shall be the duty of 
cipal shall not perfect the bail within the time required by law, as
the bail might have had ; if he shall elect to arrest and commit the
principal to prison, then his remedy on the. bond shall cease, and
the bond be void. The sufficiency of the bail' shall be excepted to 
during the term to which the writ is returnable, otherwise the
same shall be considered as accepted by the plaintifff. Objections
to tM sufficiency of bail shall be decided by the court in which the
exception is taken, without delay, on such evidence as may be 
produced, and as it may deem satisfactory; the burthen of proof
shall lie on the party affirming the sufficiency, allowing the bail to 
be examined on oath or affirmation, touching his sufficiency.
SEc. 5. It shall be lawful for the defendant in any action in any 
court of record, when bail shall have been given as aforesaid, to 
surrender himself, or for his bail to surrender him, at any time
before the return' day of the process, which may have been sued
out against him as bail, to the court in which the snit may be
pending, during the sitting thereof, or, in vacation, to the sheriff'
of the county in which process was served. In case the surrender
shall be made during the sitting of the court, an entry shall be
made on the records of the court, stating the surrender and com­
mitment of the defendant to the custody of the sheriff; if the
surrender be made in vacation, the bail or principal shall obtain a
certified copy of the bail bond from the sheriff or clerk of the
court, in whosesoever possession the same may be, and shall deliver
himself or be delivered by his bail to such sheriff, who shall there­
upon indorse on such copy of the bail bond an acknowledgment of
the surrender of the body of the defendant to his custody, and
thereupon the said copy of the bond, with such acknowledgment,
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court hi which the
action is pending. Upon giving notice of the surrender, whether
made in term time or vacation, to the plaintifff or bis attorney, and
paying the costs of the action against the bail, if any have accrued,
the bail shall be discharged from all liability ; the defendant shall
be committed to the jail of the county, there to remain until dis­
charged by due course of law. If the surrender be after judgment,
and the plaintifff' shall not charge the defendant in execution within
fifteen days after notice thereof, he shall be discharged out of
custody; the plaintifff may, notwithstanding such discharge, have
execution against the real and personal estate of the defendant. 
SEc. 6. Any defendant surrendered into custody or committed
by his bail, in manner aforesaid, may at any time before final judg­
ment shall have been rendered in the action, discharge himself from
custody by giving other good and sufficient special bail; the sheriff
or other officer authorized to take bail, shall take new bail to the
same effect as is herein before provided. 
SEc. 7. In all cases of bail under this chapter, it shall and mar.
be lawful for the bail to arrest and secure the body of the principa , 
until a surrender can be made to the sheriff of the county where
the suit may be pending, or to the court to which the process was
returnable. 
SEc. 8. Hereafter, no suit shall be commenced upon any bail
b d • f b ii · ' ·1 ' 'l ' f 
on or recogmzance o a , m any civi action, unti a wnt o
copias ml sati.if 'aciendum shall have issued against the defendant 
in the original action, directed to the sheriff of the county in which
such defendant was arrested, and such sheriff shall have returned
that the said defendant was not found in his county; if any action 
shall hereafter be commenced upon such bond or recognizance, and
it shall not appear upon the trial thereof that a writ of capias ail
satisf aciendum was issued and returned in the manner herein before
mentioned, a verdict shall be found for the defendant. It shall be
also necessary to charge the bail, that such writ of eapiae ail
satisf 'aciendun» should be issued and delivered, at least ten days
before the return day thereof, to the sheriff of the county, or officer 
to whom it may be directed ; such sheriff or other officer shall
endeavor to serve such writ upon the defendant, any directions
which he may receive from the plaintifff or his attorney to the
contrary notwithstanding. 
SEc. 9. In all cases where judgment shall hereafter be entered
up in any court of record in this state, against any person or persons as bail for another, and the amount of such judgment, or any
part thereof, has been paid, or discharged by such bail, his, her or
their executors, administrators or heirs, it shall and may be lawful
for such bail, his, her or their heirs, executors or administrators, to
obtain judgment by motion against the person or persons for whom
he, she or they were bound, for the full amount of what shall have
been t>aid by the said bail, his, her or their heirs, executors or 
administrators, in such court where judgment shall have been
entered up against such bail; b'efore judgment shall be entered up
against the J?rincipal, ten days' previous notice of such motion shall
have been given to him, if a resident of this state, and if a nonresident, then notice of such motion shall have been published, for
four weeks successively, in some news.Paper printed in this state. 
SEc. 10. • In all actions against bail 1t shall be lawful for the bail 
to plead, in bar of such actions, the death of the principal before
the return day of the process against the bail If~ on the trial of
any such issue, the death of the principal be found to have happened
before such return day, judgment shall be given in favor of the
defendant; he shall, notwithstanding, be liable to judgment and
execution for the costs of suit, unless such death shall be found to
have taken place before the commencement of the action. 
SEc. 11. If any defendant, having given special bail in any
action, shall afterward be legally arrested and delivered over to
the executive authority of the United States, or of any state or 
territory thereof, upon a charge of having committed a crime out 
of the jurisdiction of this state, and shall be thereupon carried
beyond the limits thereof, such bail shall be discharged from all
liability incurred as bail, if the defendant has not returned to this
state, discharged from such arrest, before he shall be liable to be
charged as bail for such defendant, 
SEc. 12. When any defendant, in any civil action, shall have
been discharged as an insolvent debtor, agreeably to the laws of
this state respecting insolvent debtors, and a certificate from the
authority, lawfully granting the same, shall be produced to the conrt,
the bail of such defendant shall, in all cases, be entitled to have
an e:roneretur entered upon the records of the court, which shall
thereupon operate as a discharge from his bond or recognizance,
in the same manner as if he had surrendered his principal in court,
or to the sheriff, as herein before directed: Provided, That judgment shall not have been recovered against him as the bail of such
defendant. 
SEc. 13. Hereafter, proceedings by eeire f 'acias, against bail, in
civil cases, shall not be allowed in any court of record in this state. 
AllENDATOBT A.CT. 
[&.. Laa .I'll>. ts, teGT, p. 108, &of. I a-nd G.] 
SECTION S. In all cases where a writ or process shall issue out
of any court other than the supreme court, and shall be directed to 
any other county than that in which it shall be returnable, and on
which process special bail may be entered, the officer executing
such writ may receive as special bail a householder or householders
of sufficient property, resident in his county. 
SEc. 5. In any and all cases where the sheriff's shall be by Jaw
required to take bail upon any writ or process such sheriff' shall 
3. PETITION A.ND SUMMONS,
[RH, IJlaL 18'5, <Jh4p. LXXXm., &ca. 88-81.] 
SECTION 33. Any person holding a bond or note for the direct
f d ' • h ' ' 
payment o property or money, esmng to put t e same in suit,
may elect to do so by filing it with the clerk of any circuit court 
having jurisdiction thereof, together with a petition purporting as
follows: 
, "F. CmcuIT, l A- B-, plaintil', states that be holds a bond or note (as
&:l. : f the cue may be) on the defendant C- D-, in subetance u fol- 
loweth : (here insert a copy of the bond or note) yet the said debt remains unpaid ;
wherefore he pra,s judgment for bis debt and damllo~ for the detention of the 
B&Dle, together with bis costs."
SEc. 84. If the plaintifff shall hold the bond or note as indorsee, 
then, aft.er reciting the bond or note, say " on which is the following
assignments (recite the· assignments) whereby the plaintifff hath 
become the proprietor thereof, of which the defendant hath had
due notice." 
SEc. 85. A copy of the petition shall be sent out, with a sum­
mons annexed thereto, requiring the defendant or defendants to
appear and answer the said demand, which shall be executed by
the sheriff, by delivering a copy of the petition and summons to
the defendant, and each of them, if·there be more than one. 
SEc. 86. The said petition shall stand in the place of a declaration ; the defendant or defendants may appear and plead, and then 
an issue may be joined, as in actions of debt, on such bond or
note ; but if the defendant or defendants shall not appear and
plead, the plaintifff' may take judgment by default, and final
Judgment, as in other cases. 
SEc. 87. ·when a petition shall have been filed according to the
provisions of sections thirty-three and thirty-four of this chapter,
and an affidavit to hold to bail, as herein /rovided, there shall be 
issued by the clerk (if he shall be satisfie there is good cause), a
capias and an order to hold to bail, as is now provided by law. In
such cases the affidavit shall be as near as msv be in the following 
form, to wit: • 
' 
have the power to administer oaths, and to examine the person or
persons offered as bail touching his or her sufficiency. 
"SuTJI:: OJ' ILLIMom, l 88. 
-- County, f 
.A- B-, plaintifff' in the above petition, maketb oath and saith that be hath a
real subsisting and unsatisfied cause of action against C- D-, the defendant, which 
is the same cause of action set out in the above petition, and amounts to the sum
of -- ; and further, that the plaintifff' will be in danger of losing his debt, unless
the defendant be held to bail. Signed, A- B-. 
Sworn to and subscribed before me, at my office, this -- day of --.
E- F-, Clerk." 
Which affidaYit may be macle before the clerk of the proper
county, or before any justice of the peace in this state. 
4. SUMMONS. 
[Rn. Stat. 184li, (Jlaap. LXXXllL, &c. 1.~ 
The first process in all actions to be hereafter commenced in
any of the circuit courts of this state, shall be a summons, except 
actions where special bail may be required ; which summons shall~:
be issued under the seal of the court, tested in the name of the 
clerk of such court, dated on the day it shall be issued, and signed
with his name ; and shall be directed to the sheriff ( or if he be 
interested in the suit), to the coroner of the county; and shall be
made returnable on the first day of the next circuit court in which
the action may be commenced. 
5. PROVISIONS CO!DlON TO THE WRITS OF CAPIAS AND
SUMMONS. 
[Rn. Stat.1~, (JluJp. LXXXIII.]
SECTION 2. It shall not be lawful for any plaintifff to sue a 
defendant out of the county where the latter resides, or may be
found, except in cases where the debt, contract or cause of action~ 
accrued ~ the county of the plaintifff, or w~ere the conn:act may~;
have specifically been made payable ; when 1t shall be lawful to sue 
' h d " · · h d f d h 
m sue county, an process may issue agamst t e e en ant to t e
sheriff of the county where he resides. And in every species of 
' . 1 . h h . h 
personal actions m aw or equity, w en t ere is more t an one
defendant, the plaintifff, commencing his action where either of
them resides, may have a writ or writs issued, directed to any
county or counties where the other defendants or either of them
may be found : Provided, That if a verdict shall not be found or
Judgment rendered against the defendant or defendants, resident
m the county where the aotion is commenced, judgment shall not
be rendered against those defendants who do not reside in the
county, unless they appear and defend the action. 
SEc. 3. It shall be the duty of the sheriff or coroner to serve all 
f
. h it h II b ti bl t 
process o summons or capias, w en 1 s a e prac tea e, en
days before the return ~ay thereof, and to make return of such:: 
process to dle clerk who issued the same by or on the return day,
with an indorsement of his service, the time of serving it, and the
amount of his fees : Provided; That when such process shall have
been directed to a foreign county, the officer executing the same 
may make return thereof by mail ; and the clerk may charge the
postage and tax the amount in his fee bill 
SEc. 5. If it shall not be in the power of such sheriff or coroner 
• h
to serve such summons or capias ten days before t e return day 
thereof, he may execute the same at any time before or on the
return day; but in such case the defendant or defendants shall
be entitled to a continuance, and shall not be compelled to plead
before the next succeeding term. 
SEc. 6. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff or
coroner, that the defendant or defendants are not found, the clerk
shall, at the request of the plaintifff, issue another summons or
capias (as the case may be), and so on, until service be had and
the defendant or defendants be summoned or brought into court;
and if such summons or capias be served on any one or more, but 
not on all of the defendants, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be at
liberty to proceed to trial and judgment, in the same manner as if 
all the defendants were in court ; and any judgment so obtained
shall be valid against the defendant or defendants on whom the
process had been served, and the plaintifff' or plaintifffs may, at any
time afterward, have a summons in the nature of a sci re f aciaa 
against the defendant or defendants not served with the first
process as aforesaid, to cause him, her or them to appear in the 
said court and show cause why he, she or they should not be made
a party to such judgment, and the court shall thereupon proceed to
hear and determine the matter, in the same manner as if such
defendant or defendants had been originally summoned or brought
into court; and such defendant or defendants shall also be allowed
the benefit of any payment which may have been made on the
judgment before recovered, and the judgment of the court against
the defendant or defendants in such case, shall be that the plaintifff
or plaintifffs recover against such defendant or defendants, together
with the defendant or defendants in the former judgment, the
amount of his debt or damages, as the case may be. 
SEC. 7. If any sheriff or coroner to whom any summons or capias
shall be delivered, shall neglect or refuse to make return of the 
same before or on the return day of such process, the plaintifff may
enter a rule requiring said sheriff or coroner to make return of such
process on a day to be fixed by the court, or to show cause on that
day why be should not be attached for a contempt of the court;
and the plaintifff shall, thereupon, cause a written notice of such
rnle to be served on such sheriff or coroner, and if good and
sufficient cause be not shown to excuse such officer, the court shall
adjudge him guilty of a contempt ; and shall proceed to punish
such officer as in other cases of contempt. 
6. AGAINST CORPORATIONS,
[RMI. Stat. Chap. LXXXIX., Bee. 4.] 
In all suits instituted against any incorporated company in this
state, a summons returned executed on the president thereof, or
served by leaving a copy of the summons with the principal clerk,
cashier or secretary of such company, at bis office, within such
time and under such regulations as are herein provided for the
service of such process in suits against natural persons, shall be 
deemed a sufficient service whereon to ground subsequent pro­
ceedings and judgment against such company, in any court of
this state having jurisdiction : Provided, That the provisions of
this section shall not be construed to interfere with any mode
of suing counties, or other corporations specially provided in any
statute law of this state. 
7. AGAINST TELEGRAPH COMPANIES, viae TELEGRAPH COMPA:NIES, 
8. .A.G.A.L~ST COUNTIES, vide COUNTIES. 
9. AGAINST TOWNS ORGANIZED UNDER THE TOWYSHIP LAW, uide 
COUNTIES, 
A.MEND.A.TOBY A.CT.
[&a. Lawe Feb. 81 tSM, p. ttsa.] 
SECTION 1. That in all cases where suit has been or may hereafter be brought against any incorporated company, process shall 
be served upon the president of such company, if he reside in the
county in which suit is brought, and if such president be absent
from the county, or does not reside in the county, then the summons shall be served by the proper officer by leaving a copy
thereof with any clerk, cashier, secretary, engineer, conductor or
any agent of such company found in the county, at least five days
before the trial, if snit be brou~ht before a justice of the peace,
and at least ten days [when] suit is brought in the circuit court. 
SEC. 2. This act to take effect from and after its passage. 
10, AGAINST DEFENDANT IN EJECTMENT, uide CIVIL PROCEDURE, 
sub-title, ACTIONS. 
11, PUBLICATION OF NOTICE, ETC. 
SECTION 1. That in all actions of replevin, and in all actions
which have been or may be commenced to perfect a distress for 
rent, in any of the courts of this state, when the defendant or
defendants shall have left the state, or cannot be found, they shall 
have further notice, by advertisement, as provided in section eight
of chapter twenty-one of the revised laws of the State of Illinois, 
of A. D. 1845; and, after such advertisement, the court shall proceed to act in the premises as though the parties had been duly
served with summons, or had been notified by their proper names;
and in all cases of appeal from the judgment of a justice of the
peace, where summons and alias summons have been duly issued 
against the appellee, and returned without being duly served, it
shall be lawful for the circuit court to proceed and try said appeal,
as if the said appellee had been duly served with process. 
(4.) COSTS .AND SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
{RMI. Stat. 1~, Chap. XXVI.]
SECTION 1. In all actions on office bonds for the use of any 
person ; actions on the bonds of executors, administrators or
gu11ardian~; 
1qui
tam a~tions ;hactiothns on1 _antyff.penal statutefi; anhd in 
a cases m aw or equity, w ere e p am 1 , or person or w ose
use an action is to be commenced, shall not be a resident of this state, 
prlnct-the plaintifff or person for whose use the action is to be commenced,
shall, before he ~sti~tes such suit, file, ?r Cal!Se to be fi~ed ~vith 
the clerk of the circuit or supreme court m which the action ts to
be commenced, an instrument in writing, of some responsible per­
son, being a resident of this state, to be approved by the clerk,
whereby such person shall acknowledge himself bound to par, or
cause to be paid, all costs which may accrue in such action, either
to the opposite party, or to any of the officers of such courts;
which instrument in writing may be in the form, and to the
purport following, to wit: 
.A- B-, } 
vs. -- CorRT. 
C-D-.
I do hereby enter myself security for coeta in this cause, and acknowledge myself' 
bound to pay or cause to be paid, all costs which may accrue in this action, either to 
the opposite party or to any of the officers of this court, in pursuance of the laws of
this stale. Dated this-- day of--. E- F-. 
SEC. 2. If any such action shall be commenced without filing
such instrument of writing, the c?ur.t, on motion, shall dismiss ~he 
same, and the attorney of the plaintifff shall pay all costs accnung
thereon ; and if at any time after the commencement of any suit
by a resident of this state, he shall become non-resident; or, if in 
any case the court shall be satisfied that any plaintifff is unable to 
pay the costs of suit, or that he is so unsettled as to endanger the
officers of the court, with respect to their legal demands, it shall be
the duty of the court, on motion of the defendant or any officer of 
the court, to rule the plaintifff on or before a day, in such rule
named, to give security for the payment of costs in such suit; if
such plaintifff shall neglect or refuse, on or before the day in such
rule named, to file an instrument of writing of some responsible
person, being a resident of this state, whereby he shall bind him­
self to pay all costs which have accrued or may accrue in such
action, the court shall, on motion, dismiss the suit. 
SEc. 3. If any court shall, before or after the commencement of
any suit, be satisfied that the plaintifff is a poor person, and unable
to prosecute his or her suit, and pay the costs and expenses
thereof, they may, in their discretion, permit him or her to com­
mence and prosecute his or her action, as a poor person ; and
thereupon such person shall have have all the necessary writs,
process and proceedings, as in other cases, without fees or charge.
The court may assign to such person counsel, who, as well as all
other officers of the court, shall perform their duties in such suit
without any fees, charge or reward ; if judgment be entered for
the plaintifff, there shall be judgment for his costs; which costs
shall be collected for the use of the said officers. 
SEc. 4. If any person shall sue, in any court of this state, in any
action, real, personal or mixed, or upon any statute for any offense 
or wrong immediately- personal to the plaintifff, and shall recover
any debt or damage in such action, then the plaintifff or demand­ 
ant shall have judgment to recover costs against the defendant to 
be taxed; and the same shall be recovered, together with the
debt or damages, by execution, except in the cases hereinafter
mentioned. 
SEc. 5. If any person shall sue in any court of record of this
state, any action, wherein the plaintifff' or demandant might have 
costs in case judgment be given for him, and he be non-proe'd, or
suffer a discontinuance, or be non-mdted after appearance of the
defendant, or a verdict pass against him, then the defendant shall
have judgment to recover his costs against the plaintifff ( except
against executors or administrators prosecuting in the right of their
testator or intestate) or demsndant to be taxed, and the same shall
be recovered of the plaintifff or demandant, by like process as the
plaintifff or demandant might have had against the defendant, in
case judgment had been given for such plaintifff or demandant. 
SEc. 6. Any person making avowry, justification or cognizance
in replevin, if the same be found for him, or the plaintifff be wm- 
suited or non-proe'd, suffer a discontinuance, or be otherwise
barred, then such person - shall recover his damages and costs 
· against the plaintifff, in like manner as the plaintifff would have
done, if the same had been found against the defendant. 
SEc. 7. If, in any action, judgment upon any demurrer, by either
party to the action, shall be given against the plaintifff or demand- 
ant, the defendant shall recover costs against the plaintifff or
demandant. If such judgment be given for the plaintifff or
demandant, he shall recover costs against the defendant; and
the person so recovering costs, shall have execution for the same. 
SEC. 8. Where any defendant in any action, or plaintifff in
replevin, shall plead several matters, and any of such matters,
upon demurrer joined, shall be adjudged insufficient, or if a verdiet shall be found, in any issue of the cause, for the plaintifff or
demandant, costs shall be given at the discretion of the court. 
SEc. 9. Where there are several counts in any declaration, and
any one of them be adjudged insufficient, or a verdict on any issue 
joined thereon shall be found for the defendant, costs shall be
awarded in the discretion of the court. 
SEc. 10. Where several persons are made defendants to any
action of trespass, assault, false imprisonment, detinue, replevin, 
trover or ejcctment, and any one or more of them shall, upon the
trial, be acquitted by verdict, every person so acquitted shall
recover his costs of suit, in like manner as if such verdict of
acquittal had been given in favor of all the defendants. 
SEc. 11. In all suits upon any writ of scire f acias, or upon prohibition, the plaintifff obtaining judgment, or an award of execution, 
after plea pleaded, or demurrer joined therein, shall recover his
costs of suit ; if the plaintifff shall be non-suited, non-proed, or
suffer a discontinuance, or a verdict shall pass against him, the
defendant shall recover his costs. 
SEC. 12. In no case in the circuit court shall the fees of more
than four witnesses be taxed against the party against whom judg- 
ment shall be given for costs, unless the court shall certify on their
minutes, that more than four witnesses were really necessary ; in
which case the clerk shall tax the costs of as many witnesses as
the court shall so certify. 
SEc. 13. In all cases, where any action shall be dismissed 
n!~:~rt:;ror irregularity, <Jr be non-pros'd or non-~uited, by reason that
the plaintifff neglects to prosecute the same, the defendant shall
have judgment for bis costs, to be taxed, and have execution 
therefore.
SEC. 14. In all suits and actions commenced or to be com­ 
menced for and on behalf of the people of this state, or the
governor thereof, or for or on behalf of any county of this state, or 
h f ~ h f h l f th'
t e name o any person ror t e use o t e peop e o 1s state or 
any county, thee, and in every such case, if the plaintifff' or plaintifffs
shall recover any debt or damages in such action or suit, the plain­
tiff or plaintifffs shall recover costs as any other person in like cases;
but if such plaintifff or plaintifffs suffer a discontinuance, or be non­
suited or non-pros'd, or verdict pass against such plaintifff or
plaintifffs, the defendant shall not recover any costs whatever.
Nothing in this section contained shall extend to any popular
action, nor to any action to be prosecuted by any person in behalf
of' himself and the people or a county, upon any penal statute. 
thSEdC. }5d. Upodl? th~ ~ompthlainant dis~issing hisf bill in eq_uity,thor 
eren ant iannssmg e same ror want o prosecution, e
defendant shall recover against the complainant fall costs; and 
in all other cases in chancery, not otherwise directed by law, it
shall be in the discretion of the court to award costs or not;
and the payment of costs, when awarded, may be compelled by
execution. 
Sze. 16. When any suit shall be commenced in the name of one
person, to the use of another, the person to whose use the action is 
brought shall be held liable and bound for the payment of e.11 costs
which the plaintifff may be adjudged or bound to pay, to be 
recovered by action on the case. 
SEc. 17. In all eases of appeal or certiorari upon the judgments
of justices of she peace, when the judgment of the justice of the 
peace shall be wholly affirmed or reversed, the party succeeding
shall recover from the opposite party his costs, not only in the cir­
cuit court but before the justice of the peace, and shall have his
execution therefore; where the judgment of the justice of the peace
shall be affirmed in part, then the court shall divide the costs
between the parties, according to the justice of the case. 
SEc. 18. In all cases of appeal from the decision of a court of
probate, the costs shall be in the discretion of the circuit court. 
SEc. 19. If any person shall sue out a writ of error, or take an
l h • h • d f th 
appea to t e supreme court, to review t e JU gment o e 
circuit court, and the same judgment be affirmed, or the writ of
error be discontinued or quashed, or the plaintifff in error or appel­
lant be non-suited, the defendant in error or appellee shall recover
his costs, and have execution therefore; and if the judgment be
reversed, the appellant or plaintifff in error shall recover his costs,
and shall have execution therefore, as in other cases. 
SEc. 20. In every such case, if the judgment or decree be
affirmed in the whole, the party prosecuting such writ of error or
appeal shall pay to the opposite party a sum not exceeding ten per
centum on the amount of the judgment or decree so attempted to
be reversed, at the discretion of the court, and, in addition to the
costs, shall have judgment and execution therefore: Provided, The
supreme court shall be of opinion that such appeal or writ of error 
was prosecuted for delay. 
[Rt11. Slat. 1843, Chap. LXXXIII., &c. 88.] 
In all cases when a tender shall be made and full 'payment be
offered, by discount or otherwise, in specie, as the party by con- 
tract or agreement ought to do, and the party, to whom such
tender shall be made, doth refuse the same, and yet afterward will
sue for the debt or goods so tendered, the plaintifff shall not recover
any costs in such suit 
(6.) ABATEMENT.< A. ~ r /;_ / 
[R~o. Skn. 184.'S, Chap. J.]
SECTION 1. No plea in abatement, other than a plea to the juris- 
diction of the court, or when the matters relied upon to establish
the truth of such plea appear of record, shall be admitted or 
received, by any court of this sta_tc, unless the p~y offering the
same, or some other person for him, file an affidavit of the truth
thereof 
SEc. 2. When a plea in abatement shall be adjudged insuffi­
cient by the court, the plaintifff shell recover full costs, to the time
of overruling such plea. 
SEc. 8. \Vben one or more of the persons composing any com­
pany or association of individuals shall be sued, and the person or 
persons so sued shall plead in abatement that all 'the [ersons who
h ld b b d d e. d ' • d • . h 
f. ou ave een ma e eren ants, are not Jome m t e suit, sue
suit shall not, for that cause, abate, if the plaintifff or flaintitrs 
forthwith sue out a scire fucias against the persons namer in such
plea; and on the return of such scire facias, the names of the per­ 
sons named in such plea may be inserted in the declaration, and
the suit shall proceed in all respects thereafter, as if the persons
named in such plea had been named in the original suit. 
SEc. 4. If the persons named in such plea cannot be served with
process, the plaintifff or plaintifffs, on the return of such summons,
may suggest on the record the names of those not served, and
proceed as in other cases in which service is made on part of the
defendants only; and no other plea in abatement for non-joinder of
defendants, shall be allowed in the same case. 
SEC. 5. No action or complaint, in law or equity, commenced
h 
y a feme sole, shall abate on account of her intermarriage before
final judgment: Provided, The husband shall appear and cause
such marriage to be suggested on the record, and himself made a
party in the suit; after which the suit may proceed in the same
manner as if commenced after such marriage. 
SEC. 6. If a f eme sole defendant intermarry before final judg­ 
ment or decree, the action shall not thereby abate, but the husband,
on his own application, or on that of' the plaintifff, and due notice
thereof given, may, by order of the court, be made a. party to the
suit; and the suit shall then proceed as in other cases. 
SEC. 7. When there is but one plaintifff in an action, and he shall
die before final judgment, such action shall not thereby abate, if 
the cause of action survive to the heirs, devisees, executors or
administrators of such plaintifff, but any of such, to whom the
cause of action shall survive, may, by suggesting such death on
the record, be substituted as plaintifff or plaintifffs therein, and 
prosecu te the same as in other cases.
SEc. 8. When there is but one defendant in an action, and he 
shall die before final judgment, such action shall not thereby abate,
if it might be originally prosecuted against the heirs, devisees,
executors or administrators of such defendant; but the plaintifff 
may suggest such death on the record, and shall, by order of the
court, have summons against such p(irson or persons, requiring him
or them to appear and defend the action, after which such suit shall
proceed to final judgment according to law. 
SEc. 9. If there arc two or more plaintifffs in any action, and
f 1 di b c- fi 1 · d h · } 11 
one or more o t mm re croro na JU gment, t e action s rn. not
thereby abate, if the cause of action survive to the surviving
plaintifff or plaintifffs; and if there are two or more defendants in
any action, and one or more of them shall die before final judgment, 
suob action shall not be abated thereby; but in either of said cases,
such death or deaths shall be suggested on the record, and the 
action may proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaint- 
iffs, or against the surviving defendant or defendants, as the case
may require, in all respects as if such persons had been, originally,
sole parties to the suit. 
SEc. 10. When any executor or administrator shall be plaintifff'
or defendant in any suit, and shall, before final judgment, die, or 
cease to be such executor or administrator, the suit shall not
thereby a.bate; but the same may be continued by, or against, the
successor of such executor or administrator, by an order of court
substituting such successor as defendant therein. 
SEC. 11. When an action is authorized or directed by law, to be
brought by or in the name of any public officer, or by any trustee 
appointed by virtue of any statute, and such officer or trustee shall,
before final judgment, die, or cease to be such officer or trustee,
the suit shall not thereby abate, if the cause of such suit survive to
his succesaor ; but the same may be continued by such successor,
who shall be substituted for that purpose by order of the court, on
a suggestion of such death being made upon the record. 
SEc. 12. Proceedings for the partition of lands shall not abate
by the death of anl party thereto, but shall continue in the names
of the survivors, if the interest of such deceased person in the
lands shall survive to them; and if such interest shall pass to other
persons, they may, by rule of court, be made parties, and the same
proceedings shall be had as though they had been made parties
originally. 
SEc. 13. No suit instituted in the name of one for the use ofSult
another shall abate by reason of the death of the person whose 
name is used; but may be continued by the real plaintifff in interest
in his own name, on his suggesting such death on the record, and
an order of the court being made, substituting his name for that
of the deceased plaintifff. 
SEC, 14. The provisions of this chapter shall extend as well to
proceedings in equity as at law, and the provisions of sections five, 
six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve and thirteen, shall be
li
bl 11
l 
. f d f , .
app ca e to a appea s, writs o error, an o certiorari. 
SEC, 15. All orders authorized by this chapter to be made, for
the purpose of introducing into a suit a new person as a codefend- 
ant with the original party, or for the purpose of substituting
person as defendant in place of the original party, shall be made
either upon the voluntary appearance of such person, or by order
of the court, after the party, to be made such defendant, shall have
been served with a scire f acias ,' and all such writs of scire f acias
may be sued out either in term time or in vacation, and may be
directed to any county, and shall correspond, as nearly as practicable, to the original writ, and may be executed and returned in
the same manner; but no scire f acias for the purpose of substituting another person in place of the original defendant, shall be sued
out after the second day of the second term of the court next after
the term at which the death or disability of the original party shall 
be suggested on the record. 
( 6.) AMENDMENTS AND JEOF AILS. 
[Re,,. Stat. 184:S, Chap. V.]
• 
SECTION I. By the misprison of any clerk in any place, w hereso- 
· b d hall b 11 d di • d 
ever it e, no recor or process s e annu e or scontmue 
by mistaking, in writing, one syllable or one letter, too much or too
little; but as soon as the thing is perceived, by challenge of the
party, or in other manner, it shall be immediately amended in due
form, without giving advantage to the party that challenges the
same, because of such misprisou; and the court before whom such
plea or record is made, or shall be depending, as well by adjourn­
ment, as by way of appeal, or error, or otherwise, shall have power
and authority to amend such record and process as aforesaid, as
well after judgment, in any suit, plea, record or process ~ven, as
before judgment, as long as the same record and process 18 before
them. 
SEc. 2. The court in which any record, process, declaration, 
l f ' 1 ' b 
count, p ea, warrant o attorney, writ, pane or return is or may e,
while the same remains before them, shall have power to examine 
h d d l . l f
sue recor s, processes, ec arations, counts, peas, warrants o 
attorney, writs, panels and returns, by them and their clerks, and
amend (in affirmance of judgments of such records and processes)
all that which, to them in their discretion, seemeth to be misprison
of the clerks therein; so that, by such misprison of the clerks, no
judgment shall be reversed or annulled. And if any record, process,
declaration, count, plea, warrant of attorney, writ, panel or return
be certified defective, otherwise than according to the writing
which thereof remaineth in the offices, courts or places from whence
they are certified, the parties, in affinnance of the judgments of
such records and processes, shall have advantage to allege that
the same writing is variant from the said certificates; and that
being found and certified, the same variance shall be, by the said
court, reformed and amended according to the first writing. 
SEc. 3. The courts before whom any misprison or default is or
shall be found, in any record or process, which is, or hereafter shall
be, depending before them, as well by way of appeal or error as
otherwise, or in the returns {the same made or to be made by
sheriffs, coroners, or any other), by misprison of the clerk of any
of the said courts, or by misprison of the sheriff's, under sheriffs or
deputies, coroners or their clerks, or other officers, clerks, or other
ministers whatsoever, shall have power to amend such defaults
or misprisons according to their discretion, and by examination
thereof by the said courts, to be taken when they shall think need­
ful; and all such amendments may be made as well after a judg-. 
ment given upon verdict, confession, nihil dlcit, or non aum
informatus, as upon matter of' law pleaded. 
SEc. 4. For errors assigned, or to be assigned, in any record, 
f • • • l ~ • di · } l 
process, warrant o attorney, writ, ongma or JU iciat, panne or
return, or that in any places of the same there be erasures or inter- 
lineations, or that there be any addition, substraction or diminution
of words, letters or titles, or parcels of letters, found in nny such
record, process, warrant of attorney, writ, pannel or return, no
judgment, or record, or decree, shall be reversed or annulled. 
SEc. 5. Record and process, real or personal, or mixed, whereof 
d d h 11 b · d II d hi hi 
JU gment or ecrce s a e given an enro e , or t mgs touc mg
such fleas, shall in nowise be amended or impaired by new enter­
ing o the clerks, either by the record of things certified, in no
term subsequent to that in which such judgment or decree is or
shall be given and enrolled. , 
SEc. 6. If any issue hath been, or shall be, tried by any court or
jury, and be found for either party, in any court of record, then 
the court by whom judgment ought to be given, shall proceed and
give judgment in the same, any mispleading, lack of color, insuffi­
cient pleading, or jeofail, or any miscontinuance, discontinuance,
misconceiving of process, misjoming of the issue, lack of warrant
of attorney, or any other default or negligence of any of the
parties, their counselors or attorneys to the contrary notwith­
standing; and the said judgments thereof, so to be had and given,
shall stand in full strength and force, to all intents and purposes,
according to the said verdict or finding, without any undoing the
same by appeal, writ of error or false judgment, in like form as
though no such default or negligence had ever been had or
committed. 
SEc. 7. If a verdict of a court or jury shall hereafter be given,
for either party, in any court of record, the judgment thereupon
shall not be stayed or reversed by any default of form, or lack of
form in any writ, original or judicial, count, declaration, plaint,
bill, suit or demand, for want of any writ, or by reason of any unper­
fect or insufficient return of any sheriff or other officer, or for want
of any warrant of attorney, or by reason of any manner of default
in process, upon or after any aid-prayer or voucher; nor shall any
such record or judgment after verdict, to be given hereafter, be
reversed for any of the defects or causes aforesaid. 
SEc. 8. If any verdict be rendered by the court or jury, for
either party, in any court of record, the judgment thereupon shall
not be stayed or reversed by reason of any variance in form only,
between the original writ or process, and the declaration, petition,
plaint or demand, or for lack of an averment of any life or lives of
any person or persons, so as upon examination, the said person
be found to be in life, or by reason that any of the persons in
whose favor the verdict is rendered, is an infant, and appeared by 
attorney;
SEc. 9. If any verdict shall hereafter be given by a court or 
jury, for either party, in any court of record, judgment thereon
shall not be stayed or reversed for any default in form, or lack of
form, or by reason that there are not pledges or but one pledge to
prosecute, returned upon the original writ, or because the name of
the sheriff is not returned upon the original writ or process, or for
default of entering pledges upon any petition, or declaration, or
for default of alleging the bringing into court any bond, bill,
indenture, or other deed or writing mentioned in the declaration
or other pleading, for default of allegation of bringing into court
letters testamentary or of administration, or by reason of the
omission of the words "with force and arms;" or "against the 
peace," or for, or by reason of mistaking the christian or surname
of the plaintifff or defendant, demandant or tenant, sum or sums of
money, day, month, or year, by the clerk, in any bill, petition,
declaration or pleading, where the right name, surname, sum, day,
month or year, in any writ, record or proceeding, or on the same
record where the mistake is committed, is, or are once truly and
rightly alleged, whereunto · the party might have demurred and
shown the same for cause, nor for want of the averment or words
"and this he is ready to verify," or" and tliis he is ready to verifr,
by the record." or for not alleging, " as appears hy the record, '
or that there was no right venue, so as the cause was tried by a
jury of the proper county, or place where the action is laid, nor
shall any judgment after verdict be reversed, for want of entering 
that the person against whom such judgment is given, "be in 
mercy," or "be taken," or by reason that the words "be taken," 
are entered for "he in mercy," or that the words "be iri. mercy," 
for "be taken," nor for that in the judgment "it i8 granted," are
entered for "it is considered," nor for that the increase of costs,
after the verdict in any action, are not entered at the request of
the party for whom judgment is given, nor by reason that the
costs on any judgment are not entered to be by consent of the
plaintifff; but all such omissions, variance, defects, and all other
matters of the like nature, not being against the right of the
matters of the suit, nor whereby the issue or trial is altered, shall
be amended by the courts, where such judgments are or shall be
given, or w hereunto the record is or shall be removed by appeal
or writ of error. 
SEc. 10. When any demurrer shall be joined, and entered in 
• • f d h • d h-11 d
any action or suit, m any court o recor , t e JU ges s IUl procee 
and give judgment according as the very right of the cause and
matter in law shall appear unto them, without regarding any
imprefection, omission or defect for want of form m any writ,
return, plaint, declaration or other pleading, process or course of
proceeding whatsoever, except those only which the party demur­
ring shall specially and particularly set down and express, together
with his demurrer, as cause of the same, notwithstanding that such
imperfection, omission or defect might heretofore have been taken
to be matter of substance, so as sufficient matter appear on the
said pleadings upon which the court may give judgment according
to the very right of the cause; and thereforee, no advantage or
exception shall be taken of or for an immaterial traverse, of or for
default of entering pledge upon any petition or declaration, or for
the default of alleging the bringing into court any bond, bill,
indenture or writing mentioned in the declaration or other plead­
ings, or of, or for the default of alleging the bringing into court of
letters testamentary or of administration, or of, or for the omission
of the words "with force and arm~," and "against the peace," or
either of them, or of, or for want of the avcnnent or words, "and 
thie he is ready to verify," or "and thi.s he is ready to verify hf, 
the record," or of, or for not alleging "as appears by the rel'ord,' 
but the court shall give judgment according to the very right of
the cause as aforesaid, without regarding any such imperfection,
omissions and defects, or other matter of like nature, except the 
same shall be specially and particularlJ set down and shown for
cause of demurrer; and no Judgment shall be reversed for anh 
h · rf · · · d ~ f ~
sue rmpe ection, onnssron, eteet or want o rorm, except sue 
only as are before excepted. And after demurrer joined, the
court before whom the same shall be pending, may, from time to 
time, amend all and every such imperfection, omission, defect and
want of form as are before mentioned, other than those only which
the party demurring shall specially and partieularyly set down,
together with his demurrer as aforesaid. 
SEc. 11. Everthing hereinbefore contained shall extend to all
judgments which shall be entered UJJOn confession, "n'il dicit" or 
"non sun» informatus." in any court of record; and no such judg­
ment shall be reversed, nor any judgment upon any writ of inquiry
of damazes executed thereon shall be stayed or reversed, for, or by
reason of, any imperfection, omission, defect, matter or thing which
would have been aided and cured by this chapter in case a verdict 
had been given in such action or suit, so there be an original writ
duly issued according to law. 
SEc. 12. This chapter shall extend to all suits in any court of
record for the recovery of any debt due the state, or any duty or
revenue thereto belonging, and also to all writs of mandamus and
informations of the nature of quo warranto, and proceedings
thereon. 
SEc. 13. All writs of error, wherein there shall be any variance
from the original record, or any other defect, may and shall be 
amended, and made agreeable to such record, by the respective
courts where such writs of error are, or shall be, made returnable. 
Sao. 14. No part of this chapter shall extend to any indictment
or presentment for any criminal matter, or process upon the same;
nor to any writ, action or information upon any popular or penal 
statute ; nor to any outlaw or process thereupon, in order thereunto. 
('1.) PLEA.DIXGS. 
[Rftl. Slat. 18'6, OMp. LXXXJIL] 
(.Declaration.) 
SECTION 8. If the plaintifff shall not file his declaration, together
with a copy of the instrument of writing or account on which the 
action is brought, in case the same be brought o~ a written instrument or account, ten days before the court at which the summons 
or capias is made returnable, the court, on motion of the defendant,
shall continue the cause at the cost of the plaintifff unless it shall 
h h
. d . hi d f h . . 
appear t at t e suit was commence wit m ten ays o t e s1tt10g
of the court, in which case the cause shall be continued withouq1t~
costs, unless the parties shall agree to have a trial; and if no 
declaration shall be filed ten days before the second term of the
court, the defendant shall be entitled to a judgment, as in case of 
a non-suit.
SEc. 26. In cases of attachment, against absent or absconding 
d b h
hi d" di h ll h 
e tors, t e attac mg ere itor or ere tors s a , on t e return o
the attachment, or at the term of the court where the same is made
returnable, file a declaration, with a copy of the instrument or
account on which the attachment was issued, as in other cases
after w hie h the cause shall proceed as in other cases ( and if no
declaration shall be filed, the defendant, on entering his appearance,
shall have a judgment against the attaching creditor for costs. 
SEc. 39. It shall not be necessary to file a declaration in any
scire faciae, to revive a judgment, or foreclose a mortgage, in any
court of record in this state. 
(Subsequent Pleadings.) 
SEC. 14. The defendant may plead as many matters of fact in
several pleas as he may deem necessary for his defense, or may 
P
lead the general issue, and give notice, in writing, under the 
f
h
· 1 · d d b li d ~ d e. 
same, o t e specia matters mten e to e re re on ror a erense
on the trial, under which notice, if adjudged by the court to be
sufficiently clear and explicit, the defendant shall be permitted to
give evidence of the facts therein stated, as if the same had been
specially pleaded and issue taken thereon; and whenever it shall 
become necessary, for the attainment of justice, to allow a plaintifff
to reply several matters to the plea. of a defendant, or to allow a 
defendant to rejoin several matters to the replication of a plaintifff;
the court in which the action shall be pending, on the special 
application of the party desiring so to reply or rejoin, may allow
the same to be done. But no person shall be permitted to deny,
on trial, the execution of any instrument in writmg, whether sealed
or not,.upon which any action may have been brought, or which
shall be pleaded or set up by way of defense, or set-off, unless the
person so denying the same shall, if defendant, verify his plea by
affidavit; and if plaintifff, shall file his or her affidavit denying the 
• f h . P ide l If h ki
execution o sue instrument : roe c , t e party ma mg 
such denial be prosecuting, or sued as executor or administrator, it 
shall be sufficient to state in such affidavit the belief of the party
making the same, according to his or her best knowledge, that
such instrument was not executed by the testator or intestate. 
SEc. 19. The defendant or defendants, in any action brought
upon any contract or agreement, either expre~s or implied, having
claims or demands against the plaintifff or plaintifffs in such action,
may plead the same, or give notice thereof under the general issue,
as is provided in the fourteenth section of this chapter, or under
the plea of payment; and the same, or such part thereof as the
defendant or defendants shall prove on trial, shall be set off and
allowed against the plaintifff's demand, and a verdict shall be given
for the balance due; and if it shall appear that the plaintifff be
indebted to the defendant, the jury shall find a verdict for the
defendant or defendants, and certify to the court the amount so 
found; and the court shall give judgment in favor of such defend­
ant or defendants for the amount RO certified, with the costs of his
defense, and execution shall be issued on such jndgment as in other
cases. 
SEc. 59. In actions upon bonds, notes and all other writin~s
made assignable by law' in the name of the assignee, the plaintifff 
shall not be held bound to prove the assignments or the signature of
any assignor, unless the fact of assignment be put in issue by plea, 
verified by the affidavit of the defendant or some credible person,
stating that he verily believes the facts stated in the plea are true. 
(8.) EVIDENCE. 
[R4'11. Stat. 1841S, Chap • ..TL.] 
( Documentary Evid.ence.) 
SECTION I. The printed statute books of the United States, and
of this state, and of the several states ; of the territories and late 
territories of the United States; printed under the authority of said
states and territories, shall be evidence, in all courts and places in 
this state, of the acts therein contained.
SEc. 2. The books of reports of decisions of the supreme court 
and other courts of the United States, of this state, and of the
several states and the territories thereof, published by authority of
such courts, may be read as evidence of the decisions of such
courts. 
SEc. 3. Copies of the proceedings and judgments before justices
f
h 
ifl d b tl • · · · d hi h •
o t e peace, certi e y ie justice or justices un er is or t err 
hands and seals, before whom such proceeding or judgment is had,
shall be received as evidence of such proceeding or judgment.
Where such certified copy is to be used as evidence in anr county
other than that in which the justice or justices so certifymg shall
reside, the same shall not be received as evidence, unless a
certificate from the clerk of the county commissioners' court (with
the seal of the court) shall be annexed thereto, certifying that on
the day on which such proceeding was had, or judgment rendered,
such justice, so granting the same, was a justice of the peace, duly 
eommissioned and sworn.
SEc. 4. The official certificate of any register or receiver of 
l
d
ffi f th
U
• d S to f' d 
any an o ce o e mte tates, any aot or matter on recor
in his office, shall be received in evidence in any court in this state, 
and shall be competent to prove the fact so certified. The certificate of any such re~ster, of the entry or purchase of any tract of 
land within his district, shall be deemed and taken to be evidence
of title in the party who made such entry or purchase, or his heirs
or assigns, and shall enable such party, his heirs or assigns, to
recover the possession of the land described in such certificate, in
any action of ejectment or forcible entry and detainer, unless a
better legal and paramount title be exhibited for the same. 
SEc. 5. A patent for land shall be deemed and considered a
better legal and paramount title in the patentee, his heirs or assigns,
than the official certificate of any register of a land office of the
United States of the entry or purchase of the same land. 
SEc. 6. An exemplification, by the secretary of this state, of the
laws of the other states and territories which have been, or shall 
hereafter be, transmitted, by order of the executive or legislatures
of such other states or territories, to the governor of this state,
and by him deposited in the office of said secretary, shall be 
admissible as evidence in any court of this state.
SEc. 9. Copies of all papers, books or proceedings, or parts 
h
f.
• • to · • h • • f 
t ereo , appertaining transactions m t eir corporate capacity, o
any town or city heretofore incorporated, or now incorporated, or
that may hereafter be incorporated, under a general or special law
of this state, certified to be true copies by the clerk or the keeper
of the same, under the seal of said town or city, or under the
private seal of said clerk or keeper, if there be no public seal; the
said clerk or keeper also certifying that he is intrusted with the
safe keeping of the originals, of w hicb he gives certified copies,
shall be received as prima f acie evidence of the facts so certified,
in all the courts of this state, in any suit or proceeding pending
before them. 
.AKENDATORY A.CT. 
[&N. La,w Feb. tt, tSM, p. 18'.]
SECTION 1. That copies of all papers, books or proceedings, or 
parts thereof, appertaining to the transaction of any railroad com­
panr, banking association or other corporation, certified to be true
copies by the clerk, secretary, cashier or other keeper of the same,
under the seal of such company, bank or corporation, or under the
private seal of such clerk, secretary, cashier or other keeper of the 
same, if there be no seal in such company, bank or corporation,
the said clerk, secretary, cashier or keeper also certifying that he
is intrusted with the safe keepin~ of the original, of which he gives
certified copies, with an affidavit of the truth of such certificate,
taken before some officer authorized to administer oaths, being
annexed thereto, shall be received as prima .f aci6 evidence of the
facts so certified in all the courts of this state, in any suit or 
proceeding pending before them. 
AME~"DATORY ACT. 
(&,,.. Law, Fib. 14, lSM, p. 88.]
SECTION 1. That in all cases where any lands or lots have been 
or may be sold by this state, or any of the officers thereof under
the authority of any law of this state, where the patent shall be 
signed by the governor, under the seal of this state, and in case
said patent has been or shall purport to be recorded in the record­
er's office of the county where the lands or lots are situated, and
said patent shall be lost or out of the power of the party desiring
to use the. same to produce in evidence, a copy of the record of said
patent, certified by the recorder of said county, may be read in
evidence, in place of said original patent ; which copy, certified as
aforesaid, shall be prima fucie evidence of the issuing of said
patent and of the contents thereof 
SEC. 2. That copies of the books and entries of the sale of all
land or lots, heretofore, or that hereafter may be, sold by this
state, or any of the officers thereof, under any law of this state,
certified to be true and correct copies of such books and entries
by the proper person or officer in whose custody said books and
entries may properly be, shall be prima facie evidence of the
facts stated in said books and entries. 
SBc. 8. This act shall be in force from and after its passage.
( Onus prohandi.) 
[Rec,. Stat. 1~, <Jhap. XL.]
SECTION 7. In trials of actions upon contracts, express or 
implied, where the action is brought by partners, or by joint payees
or obligees, it shall not be necessary for the plaintifff, in order to 
• • h • h. I ' f h ' di 
maintain any sue action, to prove t e copartners up o t e m viduals named in suc.h _action, or to prov~ the christian or surnames
of such partners, or joint payees or obhgees; but the names of 
such copartners, joint payees or obligees, shall be presumed to be 
truly set forth in the declaration, petition or bill : Provided,
That nothing herein contained shall prevent the defendant in any
such action from pleading in abatement as heretofore, or of prov­
ing on the trial, either that more persons ought 'to have been
plaintifffs, or that more persons have been made plaintifffs than have
a legal right to sue, or that the christian or surname is other and
different from the one stated in the declaration, petition or bill ;
in which event the defendant's rights shall be as at common law. 
SEc. 8. In actions upon contracts, express or implied, against
two or more defendants, alleged to have been made or executed
by such defendants, as partners or joint obligors or payors, proof
of the joint liability or partnership of the defendants, or their
christian or surnames, shall not, in the first instance, be required to
entitle the plaintifff to judgment, unless such proof shall be rendered 
necessary by pleading in nhatemcn{ or the filing of pleas denying
the execution of such writing, verified by affidavit, as required 
bylaw. - ~"' ~lt."'f'&p
( Competency of witnesse,s.) 
[RM1. Stat. 1846, Clwp. XL., &c. 28.] 
A nogro, mulatto or Indian shall not be a witness m any court,
· , hi A h · 
or m any case, agamst a w ite person. person aving onefourth part negro blood shall be adjudged a mulatto. 
(.Depositions.) 
[Rlffl. Stat. 1846, Chap. XL.] 
SECTION 10. When the testimony of any non-resident witness or
witnesses shall be necessary in any civil cause d:rucnding in any 
court of law or equity in this state, it shall be law ul for the party 
. hi h • • h d rt hi t 
wis mg to use t e same, on givmg tot e a verse pa y or is a torney ten days' previous notice together with a copy of the inter- 
' ' ' d d b ' h , .
rogatories mten e to e put to sue witness or witnesses, to sue 
out from the proper clerk's office a dedimu« potesuuem, or commis-}u.
sion, under. the seal of the cou_rt,. directed to any i_iumber of pe~sons, 
not exceeding three, as comunssiouers, or to any Judge or Justice of
the peace of the county or city in which such witnesses may reside, 
authorizing and requiring him or them to cause such witness or
witnesses to come before him or them, at sneh time and place as 
he or they may designate and appoint, and faithfully to take his,
her or their deposition or depositions upon all such interrogatories 
as may be inclosed with or attached to said commission, both on
the part of the plaintifff and defendant, and none others ; and to
certify the same when thus taken, together with the said commission and interrogatories, into the court in which such cause shall
be depending, with the least possible delay. 
SEc. 11. When the testimony of any resident witness or witnesses shall be necessary in any suit in chancery in this state, it 
shall be lawful for the party wishing to use the same, to cause the
deposition or depositions of such witness or witnesses to be taken
before any justice of the peace, or clerk of the circuit or comity
commissioners' court of the county wherein such witness or witnesses shall reside, without being required to sue out a commission, 
or to file interrogatories for such purl!ose, on giving to the ad verse
party or his attorney reasonable notice of the time and place of
taking the same. And it shall also be lawful, upon satisfactory
affidavit being filed, to take the depositions of witnesses residing
in this state, to be read in suits at law, in like manner as is above
provided, in all cases where such witness or witnesses shall reside
m a different county from that in which the court shall be held,
is or are about to depart from the state; is or are confined in jail
on legal process ·~- or is or are unable to attend such court on
account of advanced age, sickness or other bodily infirmity: Provided, That such reasonable notice shall be intended to mean at
least ten days in all cases, and one day in addition thereto
(Sundays inclusive) for every thirty miles travel from the place of
holding the court to the place where such deposition or depositions shall be taken. 
SEc. 12. Previous to the examination of any witness whose
d 
' • ' b b k l' • 1 l h h 11 b
eposition is a out to e ta cen as aroresau , 10 or s e s a e 
sworn ( or affirmed) by the person or persons authorized to take 
_ 
deposition so dictated, written or drawn up, or that shall be
returned to the court unsealed, or the seal of which shall be broken,
shall be rejected by the court as informal and insufficient : Pro­
vided, Such seal shall have been broken previous to its reception
by the clerk, to whom it shall be directed. 
SEC. 17. It shall not be lawful for any party litigant or the clerk of
the court into which any deposition may be returned as aforesaid,
to break the seal of the same, either in term time or in vacation,
unless by permission of the court. And if any such person or
clerk shall presume to open any such deposition when taken and
returned as aforesaid, without such permission as aforesaid, he
shall be considered guilty of a contempt of court, and may be
punished accordingly : Provided, That it shall not be considered
an offense for the clerk to break open any such deposition as aforesaid, where it is doubtful, from the indorsements made thereon,
whether the same be a deposition or not; but in such case it shall
not be proper for such clerk to permit any person to examine any
deposition, which may be thus opened by mistake, until permission
shall have been first given by the court as aforesaid. 
SEc. 18. All depositions taken in pursuance of this chapter,
when returned into court, may he read by either party, on the
trial of the causes to which they relate. 
AMEXDATORY ACT. 
[Reo. Stat, 184l>, ~pp. 680.]
SECTION. I. That whenever the deposition of any witness or 
witnesses is desired to be read in evidence, in any civil cause
depending in any court of this state, whether in law or e9-uity, in
accordance with the provisions of the act to which this is an 
amendment, when neither the adverse party in such cause nor his
attorney resides within the limits of this state, after affidavit of
such non-residence being filed in the clerk's office of the court of
the county in which such cause is pending, the notices provided
for in the several sections of said act may be given as follows:
Firstly, by posting said notices at the door of the court house of 
the county where said suit is pending, and filing interrogatories 
when required by said act, in the office of the clerk of said court,
at least four weeks prior to the time of suing out a commission or
taking such depositions, as the case may be; or, secondly, by
publishing said notice in the nearest newspaper, for four weeks
successively, prior to suing out a commission or taking depositions,
as the case may be, and filing interrogatories when required, as
hereinbcfore provided. 
SEc. 2. That this act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. 
(Production of Books and Writings.) 
[Re,i,. Stat. 1~, Chap. LXXXIJI., &c. 12.] 
The several circuit courts shall have power, in any action pending before them, upon motion, and good and sufficient cause shown, 
and reasonable notice thereof' given, to require the parties, or either
of them, to produce books or writings in their possession or power,
which contain evidence pertinent to the issue; and it shall be the
duty of the defendant or defendants, in all cases where he, she or 
they intend to prove, on the trial, any accounts or demands against
the plaintifff or plaintifffs, to file, with his plea, a. bill of the partic­
ular items of such accounts or demands, and no other accounts' or 
demands shall be suffered to be proved to the jury. 
(9.) CONTINUANCE. 
[R"". Stat. 1846, (]11,ap, LIZ.XIII., &a. 18.] 
And whenever either party shall apply for the continuance of a 
cause on account of the absence of testimony, the motion shall be
grounded on the affidavit of the party so ar.plying, or his, her or 
their authorized agent, showing that due diligence has been used
to obtain such testi~ony, or the w~nt of time. to obtain it; and 
also the name and residence of the witness or witnesses, and what
particular fact or facts the party expects to prove by such witness
or witnesses; and should the court be satisfied that such evidence
would not be material on the trial of the cause, or if the opposite
party will admit the fact or facts stated in the affidavit, the cause
shall not be continued. 
( 1 O.) TRIALS. 
1. BY THE COURT.
[Rtrt,. Stat. 1S46, <Jlw,p. LXX.TIII., .~c. 11.] 
In all cases pending in any circuit court of this state, if both
the parties shall agree, both matters of law and fact may be tried
by the court. 
2. BY JURY, I 
[R~. Stat 1~, <JAap. LXXXIII.]
SECTION 20. In all civil actions, each party shall be entitled to 
a challenge of three jurors, without showing cause for such
challenge; and when the jury retire to consider of their verdict,
they shall be permitted to take any papers that may have been
used as evidence on the trial. 
SEc. 24. It shall be sufficient for the jury to pronounce their
verdict, by their foreman, in oren court, without reducing the same
to writing, and the clerk shnl enter the same in form, under the
direction of the court ; and if either party may wish to except to 
the verdict, or for other causes to move for a new trial or in arrest
of jndgment, he shall, before final judgment be entered, give, by 
himself or counsel, to the opposite party or his counsel, the points,
in writing, particularly specifying the grounds of such motion,
and shall also furnish the judge with a copy of the same, and final
judgment shall thereupon be stayed until such motion can be
heard by the court. But no more than two new trials shall be
granted to the same party in the same cnuse ; nor shall any verdict
or judgment be set aside for irregularity only, unless cause be
shown for the same, during the sitting of the court at the term
such judgment or verdict shall be given. ,J. tn-"" ... 
SEc. 25 Whenever an entire verdict shall be given on several
counts, the same shall not be set aside or reversed, if any one or 
more of the counts be good. But if one or more counts be faulty,
the defendant may apply to the court to instruct the jury to dis- 
regard such faulty counts. 
SEc. 28. The circuit courts, in charging the jury, shall only
instruct as to the law of the case. · 
Sac, 29. Every person desirous of suffering a nonsuit on trial,
shall be barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire 
from the bar.
Ssc, 30. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal, may 
be carried from the bar by the jury.
Sze, 31. Interpreters may be sworn, truly to interpret, when 
necessary. 
[Sul. J.,a,w, Feb. 2:1, 1SlT, p. GS.] 
SECTION I. That hereafter no judge of the circuit court shall
instruct the petit jury in any case, civil or criminal, unless such 
instructions are reduced to writing. 
SEc. 2. And when instructions are asked which the judge cannot give, he shall, on the margin thereof, write the word "refused;"
and such as he approves he shall write, on the margin thereof; the
word " given ; " and he shall in no case, after instructions are 
given, orally qualify, modify, or in any manner explain the same
to the jury. 
Sac, 3. And such instructions, so given, shall be taken by the
jury in their retirement, and returned by them, with their verdict, 
into court. 
AllENDATORY ACT, 
(.Arrest of Judgment.) 
[R~. &at. 1840, CAap. LXXXIIL, &c. Si.] 
When judgment shall be arrested for any defect in the record of
proceedings after the first :process, the plaintifff shall not be com­
pelled to commence his action anew ; but the court shall order new
pleadings to commence with the error that caused the arrest, 
(11.) JUDGMENTS. 
1. BY DEFAULT.
[RH. Stat. 1~, (Jh,ap. LXXXJIL] 
SECTION. 13. On the appearance of the defendant or defendants,
the court may allow such time to plead as may be deemed reasonable and necessary, and for want of appearance, may give judgment by default on calling the cause, except in cases where the
process has not been served, or declaration filed, ten days before
the term of the court; but all the causes shall be tried or otherwise disposed of in the order they are placed on the docket, unless~~~
the court, for good and sufficient cause, shall othe1"ise direct. 
SEc. 15. In all cases where interlocutory judgment shall be
. . . b h al b a' 
giyen m any action roug t upon a pen on , or upon any 
instrument of writing for the payment of money only, and the
damages rest in computation, the court may refer it to the clerk 
to assess and report the damages, and may enter final judgment
therefore, without a writ of inquiry, and without impanneling a jury 
for that purpose; and in all other actions, when judgment shall go 
by default, the plaintifff may have his damages assessed by the
jury in court. 
SEC. 16. The court may, in its discretion, before final jud~ent,
set aside any default, upon good and sufficient cause, upon affidavit, 
upon such terms and conditions as shall be deemed reasonable. 
2. BY CONFESSION.
[Rff. Sia,. 1~, Chap. LXXXIII., &o. 97.] 
Any person, for a debt bona fide due, may confess judgment, by
himself or attorney duly authorized, without process, and eyery
confession of judgment, whether with or without process, shall
operate as a release of all errors in the entering up of the judgment
or making record thereo£ 
'J'"'icle, also, CB..L"iCEBY CODE. 
3. UPON PENAL BONDS.
[Ret1. Stat. 1~ Chap. LXXXIII., se. 18.] 
In actions brought on penal bonds, conditioned for the perform­
ance of covenants, the plaintifff' may assign in his declaration as
many breaches as he may think fit, and the jury, whether on trial
of the issue or of inquiry, shall assess the damages for so many
breaches as the plaintifff" shall prove, and the judgment for the
penalty shall stand as a security for such other breaches as may
afterward happen, and the plaintifff' may, at any time afterward,
sue out a writ of inquiry, to assess damages for the breach of any
covenant or covenants contained in such bond, subsequent to the
former trial or inquiry; and whenever execution shall be issued
on such judgment, the clerk shall indorse thereon the amount of
the damages assessed by the jury, with the costs of suit, and the
sheriff or coroner shall only collect the amount so indorsed : Pro­
vided, That in all cases where a writ of inquiry of damages shall
be issued for any such breaches subsequent to the first trial or
inquiry, the defendant, or his agent or attorney, shall have at least
ten days' notice, in writing, of the time of executing the same. 
(12.) EXECUTIONS. 
[Rn. Btm. 1846, <Jll,ap. LXXIIII.] 
S.Ec. 44. Whenever any sheriff or coroner shall neglect or refuse
to make return of any execution to him directed and delivered, 
where the same shall be made returnable, or shall refuse or neglect
to pay over any monies collected on such execution, the party
suing out such execution, on giving to said sheriff or coroner ten
days' notice in writing, of his, her or their intention, may apply to
the next circuit court for relief; and it shall be the duty of such
court, on proof, by affidavit of the delivery of such execution, if
the same be not returned, or on proof that such money has been
collected and not paid over, ·to grant an order against such sheriff
or coroner, requiring him to make immediate return of such exccu- 
tion; or if the amount, or any part thereof, has been collected, to
pay over the same immediately, with twenty per cent. thereon
from the time of collection till paid; and on failure of such sheriff
or coroner to comply with such order on demand, and being served
with a copy of the order, he shall be judged to be in contempt, and
punished accordingly; or the plaintifff in such execution may have
Judgment for the money, with twenty per cent. thereon, so collected, 
and have execution as in other cases. 
SEc. 46. A party, out of term, intending to move to set aside or
quash any execution, replevin bond or other proceedings, may 
apply to the judge at his chamber for a certificate (and which the
said judge may in his discretion grant), certifying that there is
probable cause for staying further proceedings until the order of 
the court on the motion; and a service of a copy of the certificate,
at the time of or after the service of the notice of the motion, shall 
thenceforth stay all further proceedings accordingly. 
Vule, also, JL"DGMENTS .A.ND EXECUTIONS. 
(18.) BILLS OF EXCEPTIONS, APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR. 
_, [Reo. Stat. 1846, Chap. LXXXIIL] 
SECTION 21: If, during the progress of any trial in any civil
' ] l 11 11 • th · • f h 
cause, eit ier party s in a ege an exception to e opuuon o t e
court, and reduce the same to writing, it shall be the duty of the 
. d l h • • . d l h 
JU ge to al ow t e said exception, and to sign an sea t e same;
and the said exception shall thereupon become a part of the record
of such cause. 
SEc. 22. Exceptions taken to opinions and decisions of the cir­ 
cuit courts upon the trial of causes in which the parties agree that
both matters of law and fact may be tried by the court, and in
appeal cases, tried by the court without the intervention of a jury,
shall be deemed and held to have been properly taken and
allowed, and the party excepting may assign for error before the
supreme court, any decision or opinion so excepted to, whether
such exception relates to receiving improper or rejecting proper 
testimony, or to the final judgment of the court upon the law and
evidence. 
SEc. 23. Exceptions taken to opinions or decisions of the
circuit courts, overuling motions in arrest of judgment, motions
for new trials and for continuances of causes, shall be allowed;
au.d the party excepting may assign for error any opinion so
excepted to. 
SEc. 47. Appeals from the circuit courts to the supreme court
shall be allowed in all cases where the judgment or decree 
appealed from be final, and shall amount, exclusive of costs, to
the sum of twenty dollars, or relate to a franchise or freehold: 
Provided, Such appeals be prayed for at the time of rendering the 
• l d d • l l } ' J.' h 
~1m gmcnt or ccree, an provH .. ct t re party praymg tor sue
appeal shall, by himself or agent or attorney, give bond with suffi­
cient security, to be approved by the circuit court, and filed in the
office of the clerk of the circuit court, within the time limited by
the court; which bond shall be in a reasonable sum, sufficient to 
cover the amount of the judgment appealed from and all costs, and
conditioned for the payment of the judgments, costs, interest and
damages, in case the judgment shall be affirmed, and also for the
due prosecution of said appeal; and the obligoe in such bond may,
at any time, on a breach of the conditions thereof, have and
maintain an action at law as on other bonds. 
Sze. 48. The appellant shall lodge in the office of the clerk of
the supreme court, an authenticated copy of the record of the judg­
ment or decree appealed from, by or before the third day of the
next succeeding term of said supreme court, provided, that if there
be not thirty days between the time of making the appeal and the
sitting of the supreme court, then the record shall be lodged as
aforesaid, at or before the third day of the next succeeding term
of said supreme court; otherwise the snid appeal shall be dismissed,
unless further time to file the same shall have been granted by the
supreme court, upon good cause shown. 
SEc 49. 111 all cases of appeal and writs of error, the supreme
court may give final judgment and issue execution, or remand the
cause to the circuit court, in order that an execution may be there
issued, or that other proceedings may be had thereon. 
SEc. 50. ,vhen an appeal or writ of error shall be prosecuted 
from the judgment of any circuit court of this state, to the supreme
court, and said appeal or writ of error shall be dismissed, or the
judgment of the circuit court affirmed, it shall be the duty of the
clerk of the circuit court from which said appeal or writ of error
was prosecuted, upon a copy of the order of the supreme court dis­
missing said appeal or writ of error, or affirming said judgments,
being filed in his office, to issue execution upon said judgment,
and to proceed thereon in all respects as though no appeal or writ
of error had been prosecuted from said judgment. 
SEc. 51. In all cases where a judgment or decree shall be ren­
dered in any circuit court, in any case whatever, either in law or
in chancery, against two or more persons, either one of said
persons shall be permitted to remove said suit to the supreme court
by appeal or writ of error, and for that _rurposc shall be permitted 
to use the names of all of said persons, if necessary ; but no costs
shall be taxed against any Jlerson who shall not join in said appeal
or writ of error. And all such cases shall be determined in said
supreme court as other suits are, and in the same manner that it 
(14.) DUTIES OF CLERKS. 
[RMI. Stat. 1846, Chap. LXXXIIL]
SECTION 9. The clerks of the circuit courts shall keep a docket 
of all the causes pending in their respective courts, in which shall
be entered the names of the parties, the cause of action, and the
name of the plaintifff's attorney, and he shall furnish the judge and
bar at each term, with a copy of the same, in which all indictments
and causes to which the people may be a party, shall be first set
down, after which shall be set down all cases in law, in order,
according to the date of their commencement, and lastly, the suits
in chancery; and the clerk shall also set and apportion the causes
for as many days of the term as he may think necessary, or be~:::.
directed by the judge; and all subpoenas for witnesses shall be 
made returnable on the day on which the cause in which the
witnesses are to be called is set for trial. 
34 
SEc. IO. The clerks shall, from time to time, issue subpoenas for
such witnesses as may be required by either party, returnable on
the day for which the cause in which they are required to attend
is set for trial, and every clerk who shall refuse so to do, shall be 
fined, at the discretion of the court, in any sum not exceeding one
hundred dollars. 
Sxc. 17. All affidavits read in court during the progress of any
cause, and relating thereto, shall be filed and preserved by the 
clerk.
Ssc, 40. The clerks of the several circuit courts shall keep a fee 
book, in which shall be clearly and distinctly set down, in items,
under the proper title, the costs of each suit, including the sheriff's
and witnesses', as well as the clerk's fees, noting distinctly what
fees have accrued on the part of each party; which fee book shall
be a public record; and whenever any suit shall be determined,
and final judgment entered, the costs and charges of each party
litigant shall be made up, and the costs of the prevailing party shall
be included in the judgment; and the clerk shall always send out
a bill of such costs with the execution; and the costs of the party
failing in the suit shall be collected by fee bill, in the manner
prescribed by law. 
Ssc, 41. . If any clerk shall issue a fee bill, or a bill of costs, with
the execution, without first entering the same in his fee book, or if
any such bill of costs or fee hill shall be so issued which shall not
be in substance a copy of the recorded bill, the same shall be void;
and any person having paid such bill of costs or fee bill may
recover from the clerk the amount thereof, with costs of suit, in
any court having cognizance thereof; and in every bill of costs to 
be made and recorded as aforesaid, the names of the witnesses shall
be stated, with the number of days each attended at every term. 
SEc. 42. It shall not be necessary to insert in the judgment,
other than the docket book, the costs of the prevaillng party, 
except in cases where a complete record shall be required; but
the foe book of the clerk shall be taken and deemed a part of the
record; subject, however, at all times, to be corrected by the court. 
SEc. 43. The clerks of the several circuit courts shall provide,
and keep in their respective offices, well bound books for entering 
therein an alphabetical docket of all judgments and decrees ren- 
dered in their respective courts; and it shall be the duty of said
~lerks, during every term, or within thirty days thereafter, to enter
m such docket all final judgments and decrees rendered at such
term, in alphabetical order, by the name of the person against
whom the judgment or decree was entered, which shall contain in
columns, ruled for that purpose, the names of the parties, the date,
the nature of the judgment or decree, the amount of the debt,
damages and costs, the book and page in which it is entered, and
leaving a. blank column or columns for entering a. note or memo­
randum of the satisfaction or other disposition thereof; and when
any judgment or decree shall be satisfied by execution or other­
wise, or shall be set aside, the said clerk shall enter a memorandum
thereof in the column left for that purpose, showing how disposed
of, and the date, book and page where the evidence thereof is
recorded; and such dockets may be searched by persons, at all
reasonable times, without fee; and every clerk who shall fail to
keep such docket or to enter therein any judgment or decree as
aforesaid, shall forfeit and pay a sum, not exceeding one hundred 
dollars, nor less than twenty-five dollars, and costs of suit; the
one-half to the use of the county where such court is held, and the
other half to the use of any person who will sue for the same; to 
be recovered by action of debt in the circuit court. 
SEC. 45. The clerk shall enter in a book, to be kept by him for
the purpose, the return of the sheriff or coroner of all executions,
within thirty days after the same shall be returned, under the
penalty imposed by the forty-third section of this chapter. 
Vi<le, al.Bo, .JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT, sub-titles, SUPREME COURT AND
CIRCUIT COURTS. 
( llS.) VENUE. 
[Reo. Stat. lS&IS, <Jha,p. CV.]
SECTION I. If either party, in any civil cause, in law or equity, 
hi
h
b
d
di . . . hall f h h "·ll 
w c may e epen mg lil any circuit court, s rear t at e WI 
not receive a fair trial in the court in which the action is pending,
on account that the judge is interested or prejudiced, or is related 
to, or shall have been of counsel for either party; or, that the
adverse party has an undue influence over the minds of the inhabitants of the county wherein the action is pending; or, that the
inhabitants of such county are prejudiced against the applicant, so
that he cannot expect a fair trial; such party may apply to the
court, in term time, or the judge thereof in vacation, by petition, 
. ~ rth h f h Ii · d • h f 
setting 10 t e cause o t e app ication, an praymg a c ange o
venue, accompanied by an affidavit, verifying the facts in the 
petition stated; and such court or judge, reasonable notice of the
application having been given to the other party or his attorney,
shall award a change of venue to some county where the causes
complained of do not exist; and in all such cases, where the judge
is interested or is related to, or shall have been counsel for either
party, the court, in term time, may award a change of venue, as
aforesaid, in its discretion, without any application from either 
party: Provided, That neither party shall have more than one
change of venue. · 
SEc. 2. Whenever any appeal shall be depending in any of the
circuit courts of this state, from any assessment of damages for 
land or other property taken under the authority of any law of this
state, for the use of any railroad, canal, turnpike or any other highway, or for any purpose whatever, it shall and may be lawful for
the people, or county, or other corporation, or person for whose
use such land or other property is to be taken, or the person conducting the appeal in their behalf, or for the claimant or claimants,
or his, her or their agents or attorney at law, or attorney in fact,
to file his, her or their affidavit in writing, stating that he, she or
they verily believe that a fair and impartial trial of said appeal
cannot be had in the court where the said appeal is depending, on
account that either the judge of the court or the people of the
county are interested or prejudiced against the cause of the party
on whose behalf said application is made, or in favor of the cause
of the other party, or for or against the parties as aforesaid. 
SEc. 8. On filing such affidavit, it shall be the duty of the
court to change the venue of said cause to some convenient
county, to which objections shall not be made by similar affidavit.
And said appeal shall be docketed and tried in the court to which
the ven:Zte thereof is changed, in the same manner as if it had been
originally instituted there. 
SEc. 4. If any objection shall be taken to any such appeal on
account of any defect in the appeal bond, such objection shall not
be sustained : Provided, The appellant, his, her or their agent
or attorney, shall enter into and acknowledge such bond, with
sufficient security as may be approved by said court. 
SEC. 5. When anv defendant in any indictment or information 
• • hi • t ball f h t h "11 t . f: • 
m any court m t is eta e, s ear t a e wi no receive a air
and impartial trial in the court in which the trial is :pendin~, on 
account that the judge is prejudiced, or that the minds of the
inhabitants of the county wherein the trial is pending are preju­
diced against him, such party may apply to the court in term time,
or the judge thereof in vacation, for a. change of venue, by petition
setting forth the cause of such application, verified by affidavit,
reasonable previous notice being given to the attorney general, or
circuit attorney prosecuting for the district, and the court or judge
shall award a change of venue to the next nearest county where
the cause complained of does not exist ; and in case tho applicant
be in custody or confined in jail, the court or judge shall make an
order to the sheriff to remove the body of such applicant to the
common jail of the county to which the venue is changed, and
there deliver him to the keeper of said jail, together with th
warrant by virtue of which he is confined or held in custody, not
more than three days next before the first day of the term of said
court; and the sheriff shall obey such order accordingly, and shall
indorse on such warrant of commitment the reason of change of
custody, and shall deliver such warrant, with the body of the
prisoner, to the keeper of the jail of the proper county, who shall
receive the same and give to the sheriff a receipt therefore, and
shall take charge of and keep the prisoner, in the same manner as 
if he had originally been committed to his custody: Provided,
There shall be but one change of oenue in any criminal case. 
SEc. 6. Changes of venue shall not be granted after the first
term of the court at which the party applying might have been
heard, unless the party so applying shall show that the causes for
which the change is asked have arisen, or come to his, her or
their knowledge, subsequent to the term at which the application
might have been made ; and shall also have given to the opposite
party ten days' previous notice of his or their intention to make
such application, except in cases where the causes have arisen or
come to the knowledge of the party making the application within
less than ten days of making the same. 
SEC. 7. In civil causes, wherein there are two or more plaintifffs
or defendants, a change of venue shall not be granted, unless the
application is made by or with the consent of all the 
1arties,
plaintifffs or defendants, as the case may be; and in crimina cases,
where this application is made by a part of the defendants, and is
granted, a copy of the indictment, and not the original, shall be
transmitted to the court to which the change of venue is ordered;
and the copy, certified by the clerk to be correctly made, shall
stand as the original. 
SEc. 8. In all cases wherein a change of venue may be awarded,
for any cause whatever, the same may be awarded to the next 
adjoinmg circuit, if it may suit the convenience of the parties,
as well as to any county in the circuit in which the suit was 
instituted. .
SEc. 9. When any judge shall award a change of venite in 
vacation, in any cause, civil or criminal, he shall immediately
transmit to the clerk of the court wherein the cause is pending, 
the petition and affidavit, together with an order in writing,
ordering and directing the change of uenue ; and such clerk shall 
file the same in his office, and shall make out a copy thereof, and a
full transcript of the record and proceedings in such 6ausc, and 
h
11
rtif d tr • h h t h 
s a ce 11y an ansmit t e same to t e pro:per court, oget er
with all papers filed in the cause, and appertaining or forming part 
of the record, including, in criminal cases, the indictment and
recognizance of the party and all witnesses; and the clerk of the
court to which such cause is certified shall file the same; and the
cause shall be docketed by such clerk, and shall be proceeded in 
and determined by the court, in all things, as well before and after
judgment, as if it had originated therein. 
SEc. 10. When any change of venue shall be granted in term
time, the like /roceedings shall be had, and duties performed, by
the clerks an sheriffs respectively, as in the preceding section:
Provided, No change of venue shall be granted, in any criminal. 
case, until after indictment found. ,
SEc. 11. The expenses attending a change of venue, in a civil 
case, shall be taxed by the clerk of the court from which the
cause is certified, according to the rstea established by law for
like services, and shall be :paid by the petitioner, and not taken as
part of the costs in the suit ; and if the petitioner shall neglect or
refuse tof ay the same to such clerk, within fifteen days after the 
change o venue is awarded, such clerk may make out a fee bill
against such petitioner, and his security for costs (if any), and
deliver the same to any sheriff of any county in this state, who
shall levy and collect the amount of such fee bill, and twenty per
cent. thereon, for the use and benefit of such clerk, in the same
manner as on executions ; and such sheriff shall be entitled to like
fees as on execution : Provided, That where the venue is changed
without application from either party, the costs of such change
shall abide the event of the suit. · 
SEc. 12. When the venue shall be changed in any criminal case,
the parties, witnesses, and all others who may have entered into 
recognizances to attend the trial of such cause, having notice of
the change of venue, shall be, and are hereby, required to attend
at the time and :r.Iace the trial is to be had, according to such
change, and a failure to do so shall work a forfeiture of the 
recognizance.
SEc. 13. ,Vhen the venue is changed in term time, in a criminal 
case, the attorney general or circuit attorney shall have all witnesses on the part of the prosecution recognized to appear at the 
court on the first day thereof when the trial is to be had.
SEC. 14. In all cases where a change of venue shall be ordered 
in a criminal case, if the defendant shall be convicted, and imprisonment shall be a part of the judgment, the sheriff of the 
county where such conviction shall be had, shall immediately take
such prisoner and convey him to the county where the crime shall 
have been committed, and deliver him to the sheriff thereof, and
take his receipt therefore, who shall retain him in custody, accord­
ing to the judgment of said court; and all costs and charges
incurred in removing any prisoner as aforesaid, shall be allowed
and paid out of the county treasury where the crime shall have
been committed, if the defendant be unable to pay the same. 
SEc. 15. AU questions concerning the regularity of proceedings 
in obtaining changes of venue, and the right of the court to which
the change is made to try the cause and execute the judgment, 
shall be considered as waived after trial and verdict. 
(16.) PRACTICE IN THE CIRCUIT AND COMHOX PLEAS COURTS OF
COOK COUNTY. 
[&a. Lav,a FdJ.12, ISM, p.172.] 
SECTIOli 1. That there shall be held, annually, four terms of the
circuit court of Cook county, and eight terms of the Cook county 
court of common pleas. The said terms of the circuit court shall
be held on the first Monday of May, and fourth Monday of }larch
and October, and third Monday of November; and the said terms 
of the Cook county court of common pleas shall be held on the
first Monday of January, February, March, April, June, July and 
November, and the second Monday of September ; and process
may be issued returnable to either of said terms, or to the next 
succeeding term of said courts respectively, after the date of such
process, or to any subsequent term which may commence within
three months from the date of such process. The terms of said
circuit court to be held on the first Monday of May and the third
Monday of November, and the terms of said court of common pleas
to be held on the first Mondny of February and the second Mon­
day of September, shall be trial terms, at which jury trials shall 
have the preference of all other business, and all causes for trial
shall be disposed of before any other business shall be taken up, 
excepting such business as may be incident to, or necessary for,
the proper disposal of said jury trials: Provided, That in case the
judges of said courts, respectively, shall direct the petit jury, for
any term, to be summoned to appear on the second week thereof,
in such case any other causes may be tried, or business disposed
of, during the first week of such term, The other terms of said
courts herein provided for shall be called vacation terms. 
SEC. 2. Any party desiring to have a motion, plea or other
matter cognizable at a vacation term disposed of shall file a 
, · ' , , ' 
written notice thereof, together with the papers on which such
motion is founded, in the clerk's office, and serve a copy of said 
notice on the attorney of the opposite party, or, in case he has no
attorney, then upon the opposite party, at least four days before 
the commencement of such term. The clerk shall make a list of
h · • } 1 · hi h h fil I d 
sue notices lil t ie ore er m w re t e same are eu, an upon
proof of due service thereof, the court shall take up and dispose
of said matters in their order, unless satisfactory reasons for further
delay be shown. Such vacation terms may be held at the court 
h h • d ' h b I • di . d • h 11 be 
ouse, or at t e JU . ge s c am ers, at us iscretion, an it s a
the duty of the clerk and sheriff to attend at such vacation terms. 
SEc. 3. Any party having commenced suit in either of said 
h
11
b 
· I d d f: l • 
courts s a e entit e to a. e au t at any vacation term, upon
proof of due service of process upon the defendant, and a CO})Y oflilll.R.301,881. 
the declaration, with a rule to plead at least ten days before such
term, unless such defendant, or the attorney of such defendant, if
such defendant be a resident of such county, shall, before the
expiration of said ten days, if the suit be fitunded on a contract,
file a plea to said action, and also an affidavit setting forth that he
b
1
. h h d d ~ id · h ·
e ieves e as a goo erense to sar suit upon t e merits 
Provided, however, That the defendant shall have a right to file a 
plea in abatement, demurrer or motion to quash said action, in
which case said plea, demurrer or motion shall be in order to be 
, • 
disposed of at the term at which the same ts filed, or at the next
vacation term, in case the same shall be filed in vacation without
service of notice. In all cases where it shall appear, by affidavit 
or otherwise, that the defendant resides out of the county, the
court may allow time to procure an affidavit of merits. 
SEC. 4. In all cases where a demurrer, plea or motion shall be 
filed, which the court shall adjud~e to be frivolous, the plaiutifftlona,
shall be entitled to judgment, as in case of default. When the 
issue is made up in any cause, at a vacation term, the parties shall
determine whether the cause is to be tried by a jury, or by the 
court without the intervention of a jury, and an order of the court
shall be made accordingly, and such cause shall be set down to 
be tried in the manner stated in said order, Md not otherwise.
A special jury may be summoned from the bystanders whenever
the court may adjudge it necessary, at a trial term or a vacation
term. 
SEc. 5. Causes may, by agreement, be tried before the judge at 
. d · d d d ti · d 
any vacation term, an JU gment entere an execu ion issue
thereon. 
SEc. 6. In all cases where defaults have been taken, the court 
. h h • • f • h d d 
may, wit out t e intervention o a Jury, assess t e amages, an
execution may issue forthwith upon the rendition of judgment. 
SEC. 7. All judgments rendered in either of said courts, shall
become liens from the time such judgment shall be entered on the 
judgment docket of such court : Provided, That, a.s between judgment creditors and other parties claiming under the lien of such
judgment, rendered at the same term of the court, or on the same
day~ in vacation, there shall be no preference or priority of the lien 
of one judgment over that of another. 
SEc. 8. The said courts shall always be open for the disposal of
. . fi ] d h ll 
all matters m chancery, whether interlocutory or na , an s a 
possess all the power in vacation which they could exercise in
term time, subject to such rules and regulations, with respect to
the practice, as said courts may, from time to time, adopt: And, 
provided further, That no final decree shall be entered up unless 
h
· 11 h • d b • 
w ere Rpecia y aut orize y statute, except at a vacation or
regular term of said court. 
'SEc. 9. Appeals and writs of error shall lie to any final judg- 
l d
. f . d d bil• l 
ment renr ere at any vacation term o sar courts ; an s o
exceptions may be allowed and signed in the same manner as iK
now provided by law. 
SEc. I 0. N otice of a motion to set a cause in chancery for final
argument shall not be in order until the pleadings in the same are 
closed, and the cause is at issue. 
SEc. 11. Any party desiring to take up any motion, demurrer
or plea in chancery, may do so on giving ten days' notice thereof, 
in manner hereinbefore provided. 
SEc. 12. One day's notice of a motion to dissolve an injunction
shall be sufficient, unless satisfactory cause be shown for further
delay, or the court or judge shall otherwise direct. 
SEc. 13. All motions for continuances of causes shall be made on
the first or second days of trial terms, unless the cause for such
continuances shall have arisen subsequently to such days, or unless
said court shall, in their discretion, allow such motions to be made
subsequently. · 
SEc. 14. In all suits arising on contracts, brought to any term 
of said courts, the plaintifff shall be entitled to judgment, unless
the defendant shall, with bis plea, file an affidavit of merits, plea
in abatement, demurrer or motion to quash, as hereinbefore 
provided. 
SEc. 15. A creditor's bill may be filed, or garnishee process
issued, in either of said courts, before the return day of the execu­ 
tion : Provided, That the execution shall first be returned by the
sheriff unsatisfied, either in whole or in part, and that the plaintifff,
or some person for him, shall file an affidavit, setting forth that
there is danger that the benefit of said judgment will be lost, unless
the said plaintifff be allowed to file such creditor's bill, or issue
such garnishee process, before the return day of such execution ;
and such garnishee process may be issued, and the bond filed, 
approved by the clerk, in vacation as well as in term time. It
shall be the duty of the judges of the said courts to establish rules
of practice, not inconsistent with this act, and they shall endeavor 
to make the same uniform in each of said courts. 
SEC. 16. No ~and or petit jury shall be summoned for any
vacation term ot either of said courts, unless the judge thereof 
shall make an order for summoning such jury or juries, which order
may be made in vacation as well as in term time. 
SEc. 17. The fees to be paid on the commencement of suits on
confessions of judgments, or the taking of appeals in the Cook
county court of common pleas, shall hereafter be as follows : On
confessions of judgments, two dollars for each confession ; in suits
on the law side of said court, two dollars and fifty cents in each
suit; in appeal cases, one dollar nnd fifty cents in each suit ; in 
chancery suits, three dollars in each suit; to be taxed, collected
and paid as provided in the fourth and fifth sections of " An act
to provide for the election of certain officers therein named,"
approved February 6th, 1849. And the judge of said court shall
hereafter receive the same salary from the state treasury that is
paid to the respective judges of the circuit courts. 
SEC. 18. All persons who may remain in custody under any
indictment found in either of said courts, after the adjournment of
any term thereof, shall be tried in the first term of either of said
courts which shall be held, and all the papers and proceedings in 
the court in which such indictment may be pending shall be trans­
ferred, if necessary, by the clerk, to the court which is required to
try such indictment, by the provisions of this section, who shall
certify to the correctness of the same ; and the proceedings had
in such court to which such indictment may be transferred, shall
have the same force and validitv as if had in the court in which
such indictment was originally found. 
SEC. 19. In all applications for change of venue in criminal
cases, the applicant shall set forth in his petition· the particular 
facts and circumstances upon which his belief or fears arc founded;
and the granting or refusing such application shall be discretionary
with the judge or court to whom the application may be made. 
Sac. 20. AU laws and parts of laws conflicting with this act be,
and the same are, hereby repealed . 
[&,,. 1Att1 Ja,,,_ 16, ISM, p. 146.]
SECTION I. That so much of the first section of an act entitled 
"An act to regulate the practice of the circuit court of Cook
county, and the Cook county court of common pleas," approved
February the 12th, 1853, as provides that a term of said Cook
county court of common pleas shall be held on the first Monday of
March, be, and the same is, hereby repealed. 
SEc. 2. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage. 
PRACTICE ACT RELATIVE TO THE THIETEENTH CIECUIT, THE CIRCUIT
COURTS OF COOK A.ND LAKE, A.ND THE COOK COUNTY COURT OF
COM.MON PLEAS. 
[&#. lAw JCUI. 14, issr, p. 10.]
SECTION 5. That the fourth and fifth sections of an act entitled 
" An act to provide for the election of certain officers therein
named," approved February 6th, 1849, as amended by the seventeenth (17th) section of an act entitled "An act to regulate
the practice in the circuit court of Cook county, and the Cook
county court of common pleas," approved Februar.r 12th, 1853, 
shall apply to, and be in force in, said seventh and thirteenth judicial circuits, in relation to all suits now pending, or hereafter
brought therein. 
SEc. 6. That it is hereby declared to have been, and to be, the
true intent and construction of the said act regulating the practice 
in the circuit court and Cook county court of common pleas, that
the said court shall have power to assess damages, enter judgment and award execution, at the vacation terms of said courts,
in all cases arising ex contracto or ez delicto, where the defendant shall have been duly served with process, and shall make
default, whether the party has been served with a copy of the 
declaration and rules to plead or not. 
SEc. 7. That all suits pending in the said circuit court of Cook
count)' and Cook county court of common pleas, at any trial or 
vacation term of said courts, by appeal from any inferior court or
• . di . b di • d b "d "th f id 
Juris iction, may e ismtsse y sm courts, at er er o sai 
terms, whether the appellee shall have been served with process 
or not, unless the appellant shall file an affidavit of merits before
the expiration of the rule to plead, as in other cases; and no appeal
cause shall be continued at any trial term, except for cause shown
upon affidavit, where the appellee shall have been served with
process on or before the first day of such term, or his appearance
shall be duly entered before the cause may be called for trial. 
,, 
.ilIENDATORY ACT. 
SEc. 8. That judgments may be entered in vacation in the said
circuit court of Cook county and Cook county court of common
pleas, in all suits brought on any instrument of writing for the
payment of money only, where the defendant shall make default
after being duly served with process and a copy of the declaration
and rule to plead, not less than fifteen days before the entry
thereof, where the defendant is a resident of said county, or
twenty days where he resides without the county; and said courts
shall be considered as always open for the entry of such judg­
ments by default, or judgment by confession, and judgment so
entered shall have like force and effect as if entered in term time :
Provided, That before the entry of such judgment by default, the
plaintifff shall file with the clerk an affidavit, by himself or agent,
that the debt is a bona fide one, and that there are no just
discounts or set-off's thereto. 
SEc. 9. That this act shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. 
AMENDATORY ACT. 
[&at. Law. re, 16, 1851, p. 10.] 
SECTION 1. That so much of the fifth section of an act entitled
"An act to change the time of holding courts in the seventh and
thirteenth judicial circuits, and to regulate the ~ractice therein,
and in the Cook county court of common pleas,' approved Jan­
uary 14th, A. D. 1857, as applies to the thirteenth judicial circuit,
be, and the same is, hereby repealed. 
SEc. 2. This act shall take etf ect and be in force from and after 
its passage. 
JUDGMENTS .AND EXECUTIONS. 
[R,c,. 8tat. 184li, Oho,p. L VII.] 
LIENS. 
( Of Judgments.) 
SECTION 1. All and singular the goods and chattels, lands, ten­
ements and real estate of every person against whom any jndg- 
ment has been or hereafter shall be obtained, in any court of
record, either at law or in equity, for any debt, damages, costs or 
other sum of money, shall be liable to be sold upon execution to be 
• d h • d d h id • d hall b li
issue upon,uc i1 gment, an t e aai JU gment s ea en 
on such lands, tenements and real estate, from the last da.y of the
term of the court in which the same may be rendered, for the
period of seven years: Provided, That execution be issued at any
time within one year on such judgment, and from and after the
said seven years, the same shall cease to be a lien on any real
estate, as against bona fide purchasers, or subsequent encumbrances
by mortgage, judgment or otherwise: Provided, That in case the
party in whose favor any such judgment shall have been entered,
shall be restrained by injunction out of chancery, or order of any
judge or court, either from issuing execution or selling thereon, 
the time which he shall be so restrained shall not be deemed or 
considered as any :{>art of the said seven years. The term "real
estate" in this section shall be construed to include all interest of
the defendant or any person to his use, held or claimed by virtue
of any deed, bond, covenant or otherwise, for a conveyance, or as
mortgagee or mortgagor of lands in fee, for life or for years. 
SEc. 3. The legal bolder or h~ldedrs by record, obf adny cirtdificabte
of purchase of lands from the U nite States, shall e eeme to e 
within the true intent and meaning of this chapter. 
( Of .Attachments and Ezecutions from l!breign Oounties.)
SEC. 25. When a writ of attachment or a writ of execution is 
issued from the circuit court of one county, to any sheriff or other
officer of another county, and levied upon any real estate in such
county, it shall be the duty of the officer making such levy to make
a certificate thereof, and file the same in the recorder's office of
the county where such real estate is situated; and until the filing
of such certificate, such levy shall not take effect as to creditors or
bona fide purchasers, without notice. 
SE<.:. 26. When a writ of' attachment is levied upon any real
estate, in any case, it shall be the duty of the officer making the
levy, to file a certificate of such fact with the recorder of the
county where such land is situated; and from and after the filing
of the same, such levy shall take effect as to creditors and bona 
fide purchasers, without notice, and not before.
SEc. 27. It shall be the duty of the recorder of the proper county 
to file and record the certificates mentioned in the foregoing sections, in a book to be kept for that purpose; for which he shall be
entitled to receive the same fees as for recording other papers, to
be paid by the plaintifff, in such execution or attachment, and be
taxed and collected b:y the sheriff, as other costs. . 
Sac, 28. Such certificate may be in substance in the following
form: 
Su.TE OJ' l111Ro1s, l 88. 
-- Omntly, f · I no HEUBY 0.IRTil'Y, That by virtue of a certain
writ of -- to me directed, from the circuit court of-- county, in favor of--, 
against --1 dated 18 
I did, on this -- day of--, 18 , levy upon the
following real estate: (Here describe it.) A- B-, sheriff' of-- cow1ty, 
1 
(or coroner, as the case may be.) 
( Of Eucutiom.) 
Sxc. 8. All executions shall be made returnable ninety days
after date, and no writ of execution shall bind the property of the~:.· 
~oods and chattels of any person against whom such writ shall be
issued, until such writ shall be delivered to the sheriff or other 
officer, to be executed; and for the better maniftstation of the 
said time, the sheriff or other officer shall, on the receipt of every
such writ, indorse upon the back thereof, the hour, day of the
month and year, when he received the same. 
EXECUTION. 
SEC. 4. In all executions, to be issued upon judgments hereafter
to be recovered upon contracts, either express or implied, it shall 
be lawful to direct the collection of interest on the said judgment
from the time of recoverini. t:;.. same until paid, at the rate of six 
per centum per annum.'+ - ~ ... ,. '-~~~ J t 
SEc. 5. It shall be lawful for the party in whose favor any judg­
ment, as aforesaid, may be obtained, to have execution in the usual 
form, directed to any county in this state, against the goods, chat­
tels, lands and tenements of such party defendant, or upon his
body, when the same is authorized by law, provided that no exe­
cution shall issue against the body of such debtor, except as is
provided in chapter fifty-two of the revised statutes. 
SBc. 6. Nothing herein shall restrain or prevent any execution
from being issued a~ainst the body of any defendant, where the 
judgment shall have neen obtained for a tort or trespass, committed
by such def endant, 
SEc. 7. No execution shall be issued against the body, or against
h d h 1 1 d d f h ' 
t e ~oo s, c atte s, an s an tenements o any ell', executor or
administrator, unless such person shall have made bis estate liable 
to the same debt by false pleading or otherwise.
(Levy.) 
Sac. 9. The plaintifff in execution may elect on what property
he will have the same levied, except the land on which the defend- 
ant resides, and his personal property, which shall be last taken in
execution, excepting and reserving, however, to the defendant 
in execution, such property as is, or may be, by law, exempt from
execution. 
SEc. 10. When any property, real or personal, shall be taken in
ti if h b "bl f di . . . h ll b 
execu 10n, 1 sue property e suscepti e o rvision, it s a e 
sold ~ such quantities as may be necessary to satisfy such
execution and costs. 
(Property Exempt from Levy and Sale.)
SEc. 32. The necessary wearing apparel of: every person shall 
be exempt from execution, writ of attachment and distress for rent.
Ssc, 33. The following property, when owned by any person 
being the head of a family, and residing with the same, shall be
exempt from levy and sale on any execution, writ of attachment,
or distress for rent; and such articles of property shall continue so
exempt while the family of such person, or any of them, are
removing from one place of residence to another in this state,
viz : First, Necessary beds, bedsteads and bedding ; the neces­
sary utensils for cooking ; necessary household furniture, not
exceeding in value fifteen dollars; one pair of cards, two spin­
ning wheels, one weaving loom and appendage; one stove and
the necessary pipe therefore, being in use, or put up for ready use,
in any house ~ccu pied by such family. Second, One milch cow 
and calf, two sheep for each member of the family, and the fleeces
taken from the same, or the fleeces of two sheep for each member
of a. family, which may have been purchased by any debtor not
owning sheep, and the yam and cloth that may be manufactured
from the same, and sixty dollars' worth of property, suited to his
or her condition, or occu:eation in life, to be selected by the debtor.
T!tird, Necessary/rovis1ons and fuel for the use of the family for
three months, an necessary food for the stock hereinbefore
exempted from sale, or that may be held under the provisions of
this chapter. 
8Ec. 34. ,Vhenever, in any case, the head of a family shall die,
desert, or cease to reside with the same, the said family shall be
entitled to, and receive, all the benefits and privileges which are
in this chapter conferred upon the head of a family residing with
the same. 
8Ec. 35. If any officer, by virtue of any execution or other prooess, or any other person, by any right of distress, shall take or 
seize any of the articles of property herein before exempted from
levy and sale, such officer or person shall be liable to the party 
injured for three times the value of the property illegally taken or
seized, to be recovered by action of trespass, with costs of suit. 
EXEMPTION OF HOMESTEAD, viae HOMESTEAD. 
FORTHCOMING OR DELIVERY BONDS. 
SEc. 30. ,Vhenever a sheriff or other officer shall have levied
an execution, issued out of any court of record, upon the personal 
property of a. defendant, or shall be about to make such levy, and
the defendant be desirous of retaining the same in his possession,
such sheriff shall take a bond from such defendant, with security,
that the property shall be forthcoming or delivered, at such time
and place as shall be named in the condition, and that the same
shall not be disposed of nor injured, and a bond so taken shall not
be considered void, as. taken by color of office. 
SEc. 31. Where bonds shall be taken by a sheriff, for the forth­
coming and delivery of property and the defendant or his security
shall not return the property named in the said bond, conformably
to the condition thereof, the officer having such execution may
proceed to execute the same in the same manner as if no levy had
been made; and in case the defendant's property, or a sufficiency
thereof, cannot be found, the officer may proceed to levy on so
much of the property of the security in the delivery bond, as will 
make the amount called for in such bond, and the property which
may be so taken may be sold, by giving notice thereof as pre­
scribed in section twenty-nine of this chapter, and no future
delivery bond shall be allowed. 
A.DVRRTISEHENT AND SALE, 
J. OP HAL IIITATa. 
Sso, 11. No lands or tenements shall be sold by virtue of any 
• ~ • d I h l b bl" .1 d
execution aroresm , un ess sue sa e e at pu io venuue, an 
between the hours of nine in the morning and the setting of the
sun of the same day, nor unless the time and place of holding such 
sale shall have been previously advertised for the space of twenty
days, by putting up written or printed notices thereof, in at least
three of the most public places in the county where the lands may
be situated, specifying the name of the plaintifff and defendant in
the execution, and in all which notices the lands or tenements to
be sold shall be described with reasonable certainty, by setting
forth their number, or by some other appropriate description; and
if any sheriff or other officer shall sell any lands or tenements by
virtue of any such execution, otherwise than in the manner afore­
said, or without such previous notice, the sheriff or other officer,
so offending, shall, for every such offense, forfeit and pay the sum
of fifty dollars, to be recovered, with costs of suit, in any court of
record in this state, by the person whose lands may have been
advertised for sale: Provided, however, That no such offense, nor
shall any irregularity on the part of the sheriff or other officer
having the execution, be deemed to affect the validity of any sale
made under it, unless it shall be made to appear that the purchaser
had notice of such irregularity. 
AllENDHENT.
[&a. Law re: 12, tSG7, p. 88.) 
SECTION 1. That in addition to the notices now required by
said section, of the sale of real estate, it shall be the duty of offi­ 
cers who may make sales of land under said section, to cause a
similar notice to that therein required to be published for three
successive weeks, once in each week, in a newspaper, if there be 
one printed in the troperty county, of such sale: Provided, That
no more than usna rates shall in any case be charged: A1ul pro­ 
vided, further, That no omission to give such notice, without good
cause, shall affect the regularity or validity of such sale, unless it
shall be made to appear that tho purchaser had notice of such
irregularity st or before said sale. 
Sac, 2. Where there is no newspaper printed in such county, or
where no newspaper will publish the notice at the price fixed by 
this act, then the notice of such sale heretofore required shall be
sufficient. 
i. OP PSIU!OlU.LTY. 
SEC. 29. No goods or chattels shall be sold by virtue of any
execution aforesaid, unless previous notice of such sale shall have
been given, for, at least, ten days successively, by putting up writ­
ten or printed notices thereof, in three of the most public places in
the county where such sale is to be, specifying the time and place
where such goods and chattels are to be sold. 
CERTIFICATE OP PURCHASec. 
SEo. 12. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold by
virtue of any execution, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other 
officer, instead of executing a deed for the premises sold, to givo
to the purchaser or purchasers of such land or tenements a certificate in writing, describing the lands or tenements purchased, and
the sum paid therefore, or if purchased by the plaintifff in the exe­
cution, the amount of his bid, and the time when the purchaser
will be entitled to a deed for such lands or tenements, unless the
same shall be redeemed, as is provided in this chapter, and such
sheriff or other officer shall, within ten days from such sale, file in
the office of the recorder of the county, a duplicate of such certificate, signed by him; and such certificate, or a certified copy
thereof, shall be taken and deemed evidence of the facts therein
contained. 
A.ME;NDllENT.
[&N. LaAo, l,b. 19, 1867, 1'· Ht, s«,. 1.) 
That all certificates of purchase executed by 1:1heriff's upon sales
under executions, orders or decrees, shall be filed, recorded and 
paid for in the same manner as is provided in the 27th section
of the above entitled act concerning certificates of levy on
attachments or executions from foreign counties. 
REDEMPTION. 
SEc. 13. It shall be lawful for any defendant, hie heirs, executore, administrators or grantees, whose lands or tenements shall be
sold, by virtue of any execution within twelve months from such 
al
d
h 1
d
b
. th 
s e, to re eem sue an s or tenements, y paymg to e purchaser thereof, his executors, administrators or assigns, or to the 
sheriff or other officer who sold the same, for the benefit of such
purchaser, the sum of money which may have been paid on the
purchase thereof, or the amount given or bid, if purchased by the
plaintifff in the execution, together with interest thereon at the rate
of ten per centum from the time of such sale, and on such sum
being made as aforesaid, the said sale and the certificate thereupon
granted shall be null and void. 
SEc. 14. After the expiration of twelve months, and at any time
before the expiration of fifteen months, from the sale of any lauds 
or tenements under the provisions of the preceding sections hereof,
it shall be lawful for any judgment creditor to redeem the same in 
the m~ner follo'!lll~: Such judgment creditor s~all sue out an
execution upon his Judgment, and place the same in the hands of 
the proper officer to execute the same, and thereupon said officer
shall indorse upon the back of said execution a levy upon the land
or tenements which said judgment creditor may wish to redeem;
and said judgment creditor shall pay to said officer into whose
hands he shall have placed his execution as aforesaid, the amount
.of money for which said premises may have been sold, with ten
per oentum per annum interest thereon, from the date of such sale, 
for the use of the purchaser thereof, his executors, administrators
or assigns, upon fayment of which, said officer shall file in the 
recorder's office o the county in which said lands are situated, a
certificate of the redemption thereof by said judgment creditor
under said execution, and shall advertise and offer the same for
sale under and by virtue of said execution, in the same manner
that other lands are required to be advertised and exposed to sale
on execution in other oases. 
SEc. 15. Any judgment creditor, having so redeemed such
lands, shall be considered as having bid at such sale the amount of
said redemption money so paid by him, and interest thereon from
the date of such redemption to the day of sale; and if no bid
greater than said amount shall be offered, the lands shall be struck
off and sold to such judgment creditor or creditors, and a deed
thereof shall forthwith be executed by such officer to such cred­
itor or creditors, and no other redemption shall be allowed; but if
another and higher bid shall be madetherefore, and the said lands
sold for more than the amount of said redemption money and
interest as last aforesaid, the excess over and above the amount of
the same shall be applied as a credit on the execution under which
the redemption shall have been made, and a certificate of pur­
chase shall be executed to the new purchaser in the manner herein­
before prescribed, for a deed of said land so sold, within sixty days
from the date of such sale, unless the same shall be redeemed in
the meantime in the manner herein prescribed by some other
judgment creditor; and if said lands shall be redeemed from said
second purchaser, the same shall be done in the same manner, and
upon the same terms, and the officer shall proceed in the same
mode to offer the said lands for sale as is hereinbefore required in
case of the first redemption; and such lands may be successively
redeemed within every period of sixty days, so long as there shall
be a judgment creditor disposed to redeem the same, on the terms
and in the manner aforesaid; and after the lapse of any period of
sixty days without redemption, it shall be the duty of the officer
who last sold such lands on the execution under which the same
shall have been last redeemed, or his successor in office, to execute
a deed for the lands so sold to the last purchaser, in like manner as
other deeds for lands sold on execution are made. 
SEc. 16. Any judgment creditor or creditors may redeem the
whole or any part or portion of the lands or tenements previously
sold upon execution: Provided, Such redemption shall be made in
the like distinct quantities or parcels in which the same were sold. 
SEc. 17. No commission upon the amount of the redemption
money paid in any case shall be allowed to the officer receiving the
same, but the usual commission shall be allowed the officer selling
said premises on the excess made over and above the amount of
said redemption money and interest; the duplicate copy of the
certificate of purchase required in the twelfth section hereof, shall
be filed in tho office of the recorder of the county in which the
lands so sold under execution shall be situated. 
SEc. 18. Every certificate which shall be given by any officer to 
any purchaser under the provisions of this chapter, shall be assign­
able by indorsement thereon, under the hand of such purchaser or
purchasers, bis, her or their heirs, executors, administrators or
assigns; and every person to whom the same shall be so assigned
shall be entitled to the same benefits therefrom, in every respect, 
that the person therein named would have been if the same had
not been assigned; and in case the lands mentioned in such cer­
tificate shall not be redeemed in pursuance of law, shall be entitled
to a deed therefore. 
Wunus, A- B- did, at the term of the circuit court for the county of-(as the case may be), recover a judgment againstC-D-, for the sum of--, and
costs of suit, upon which judgment an execution was issued, dated on the -- dny
of --, A. D. 18-, directed to -- to execute, and by virtue of said execution,
the said -- levied upon the lands hereinafter described, and the same were struck
oft' and sold to--, he being the highest and best bidder therefore, and the time
and place of the sale thereof having been du1y advertised according to law. 
Now, THEREl'ORK, K.Now ALL DY TDIS Dun, That!--, of said county of--, in
consideration of the premises, have granted, bargained and sold, and do hereby
convey to the said --, his (her or their) heirs and assigns, the following described 
tract or tracts of land (here describe the lands), To HA.VB AND TO HOLD the said
described premises, with all the appurtenances thereto belonging, to the said --, 
his heirs and assigns for ever.
Witness my hand and seal, this -- day of--, in the year of our Lord one 
thousand, eight hundred and--. 
SEc. 20. If the purchaser shall have assigned his certificate of
purchase, then there may be inserted after the word "law," in the
foregoing form, in substance, as follows: "And the said --,
having duly assigned his certificate of purchase to" (as the case
may be). 
SEC. 21. Any deed so executed shall be evidence that the provisions of the law in relation to sales of lands upon execution were
complied with, until the contrary shall be shown, and such deed 
shall be considered aa conveying to the grantee therein named, all
the title, estate and interest of the defendant or defendants in the
execution therein named, in and to the lands thereby conveyed, of
whatsoever nature the same may be; but such deed shall not be
construed to contain any covenant upon the part of the officer 
executing the same. 
SEc. 22. If such lands or tenements, so sold, shall not be redeemed
as aforesaid, either by the defendant, or by such creditor, as aforesaid, within fifteen months from the time of such sale, it shall be 
77 
AllENDMENT. 
[&a. I.ntca Feb. li, 181S3, p. ffl.] 
SECTION 2. In all cases of redemption of land from sale had 
• • 
under any attachment, judgment, order or decree, or proceedmg
thereunder, it shall be the duty of the purchaser, sheriff, master in
chancery, or other officer or person from whom said redemption
takes place, to make out an instrument in writing, under his hand
and seal, evidencing said redemption, which shall be recorded in
the recorder's office of the proper county, in manner as other
writings affecting the title to real estate arc filed and recorded,
and which recording shall be paid for by the party redeeming. 
(Sheriff's Deed.) 
SEc. 19. The deed to be executed by the officer to the pur­
chaser, under the provisions of this chapter, shall contain a state­
ment of the judgment upon which the lands therein described
were sold, and of the date of the execution, and may be in the
following form: 
[L. S.] 
the dnty of the sheriff or other officer, who sold the same, or his
successor in office, or his executors or administrators, to complete
such sale, by executing a deed to the purchnser ; and if any creditor
shall redeem such lands or tenements as aforesaid, it shall be the
duty of the sheriff or other officer, on the expiration of fifteen
months from the time of such sale, to execute a deed to such
creditor as the original purchaser; and such deeds shall be as
valid and effectual in law, as if such creditor had been the original 
purchaser. 
Vule, also, REAL ESTATE, AXD SHERIFFS AYD CORO~ERS. 
(Death of Parties to Judgments and Etecuaons.) 
SEc. 2. When any judgment shall have become a lien as afore­
said, and the defendant happen to die before execution shall have
been issued thereon, the remedy of the person in whose favor the
said judgment shall have been rendered, shall not be delayed or
suspended by reason of the non-age of any heir or heirs of such
defendant; but no execution shall issue upon such judgment,
until the expiration of one year after the death of such defendant ;
nor shall any previous law of this state, which gives no preference 
to the claims of a creditor of a deceased debtor, be so construed 
• • a!'. h }" f • d -~ 'd 
as to 1mpa1r or affect t e ien o any JU gment as aroresm .
SEc. 37. Whenever a judgment has been or may hereafter be . 
obtained in any court of record of this state, against any person
or persons, who has, or shall after the rendition of biJ judgment,
die, it shall be lawful for execution to issue against the lands and
tenements of said deceased person or persons, without first reviving the judgment against their heirs or legal representatives: Pro­
vided, lunoener, The plaintifff or plaintifffs in execution, or his or
their attorney, shall give to the executor or administrator, if there
be any, of said deceased person or persons, at least three months'
notice, in writing, of the existence of said judgment, before the
issnin~ of execution: And provided, further, That no execution 
shall issue until after the expiration of twelve months from the 
d h f h d d 
eat o sue eceaso person or persons.
SEc. 40. The collection of the judgments of courts of record 
shall not be delayed or hindered by the death of the plaintifff or
person in whose name the judgment shall exist; but the executor
or administrator, as the case may be, may cause the letters testa­
mentary or of administration to be recorded in the court in which
the judgment exists; after which, execution may issue and .Proceedings he had thereon, in the name of the executor or adminis­
trator, as such, in the same manner that could or might be done or
had, if the judgment exists and remains in the name and in favor
of the executors or administrators, in his, her or their capacity as
such executor or administrator. 
SEc. 41. The lien created by law on property shall not abate or
cease by reason of the death of any plaintifff or plaintifffs; bnt the
same shall survive in favor of the executor or administrator of the
testator or intestate, whose duty it shall be to have the judgment
enforced in manner aforesaid. 
JURIES AND JURORS. 
[RMJ. Stat. 1Si6, (Jhap. L VIII.] 
( Qualffication of Jurors.) 
SECTION 1. All free white male taxable inhabitants in any of the
counties in this state, being natural born citizens of the United 
States, or naturalized according to the constitution and laws of the
United States, and of this state, between the ages of twenty-one
and sixty years, not being judges of the supreme or circuit court,
county commissioners, judges of probate, clerks of the circuit
or county commissioners' court, sheriffs, coroners, postmasters,
licensed attorneys, overseers of the highway, or occupiers of mills,
ferries, toll-bridges or turnpike roads, being of sound mind and
discretion, and not subject to any bodily infirmity amounting to a
disability, shall be considered and deemed as competent persons
( except in cases where legal disabilities may be imposed for the
commission of some criminal offense), to serve on all grand and
petit juries, in and for the bodies of their counties respectively. 
(Selection of Jurors.)
Ssc, 2. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners' court 
in each of the counties in this state, wherein a circuit court isJurlea.
directed to be holden, at least twenty days before the sitting of 
such court, to select twenty-three persons, possessing the qualifications aforesaid, and as nearly as may be a proportionate number 
from each township in their respective counties, and to cause their 
clerk, within five days thereafter, to issue and deliver to the sh~riff',
or if there be no sheriff, or he be disqualified, then to the coroner
of the county wherein the court is to be held, a summons, com­
mandinz him to summon the persons so selected as aforesaid, to
appear before the said circuit court, at or before the hour of eleven
o clock, A. M., on the first day of the term thereof, to serve as
grand jurors, any sixteen of whom shall be sufficient to constitute a
grand jury; which said summons shall be served at least five days
before the sitting of the court, either by reading it to the person to
be summoned, or by leaving an attested copy thereof at his last
usual place of abode. 
SEc. 6., It shall also be the duty of the county commissioners' 
court in each of the counties in this state, w herein a circuit court
is directed to be held as aforesaid, at least twenty days before the
sitting of such court as aforesaid, to select twenty-four persons
possessing the qualifications aforesaid, who shall compose and
constitute two full petit juries, to serve as such at the next suc­
ceeding term of the circuit court, in each county respectively, to
be summoned in like manner as is hereinbefore directed in the case
of grand juries. 
SEc. 7. The county commissioners' courts of the several coun­
ties in which the circuit courts are allowed to sit two weeks, are
authorized to select forty-eight qualified jurymen, to serve as petit
jurors during the term of the circuit court, twenty-four of whom
shall be selected to serve during the first week of' the court, and
summoned to attend on the first day of the term; and twenty-four
shall be selected to serve during the second week of the term, and
summoned to attend on the second l\fonday of the term. 
SEc. Ii. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the circnit court, at
the commencement of each term, to write the name of each petit
jnror on a separate ticket, and put the whole into a box or other
place for safe keeping; and as often as it shall be necessary to 
impannel a jury, the clerk, sheriff or coroner shall, in the presence
of the court, draw, by chance, twelve names out of such box or
other place, which shall designate the twelve to be sworn on the
jnry, and in the same manner for the second jury, in their turn, as
the court may, from time to time, order and direct. 
SEc. 9. In all cases where any sheriff' or other officer shall be
commanded to execute any summons as aforesaid, be shall be
required to make return thereof on or before the return day to the
clerk who may have issued the same, with an indorsement thereon,
certifying on whom it has been executed, and the time when; and
in default of so doing, such sheriff or other officer shall be con­
sidered as guilty of a contempt, and may be fined, for the use of
the proper county, in any sum not less than ten, nor more than
fifty dollars, unless such sheriff or other officer shall seasonably
make his excuse, to the satisfaction and acceptance of the court. 
SEc. 10. If a sufficient number of grand or petit jurors, when
selected and summoned as aforesaid, shall not appear, or if by
reason of challenges, or any other cause, there shall not be a suffi­
cient number of qualified persons to make up the panel, the court 
may order the sheriff to return without delay such number of good 
and lawful men of the county as may be necessary for thatrur­
})OSe; and when the sheriff is interested, or related to either o the
parties, the court may direct the coroner to make such return ; 
and if any circuit court should at any time sit before the county 
commissioners' court shall have made a selection of grand or :petit
jurors as aforesaid, or if on any account the whole panel in either
case shall fail to attend, the court may order the sheriff or other
officer to summon from the bystanders, being qualified persons as
aforesaid, a sufficient number to supply such deficiency, who shall
continue to serve for the remainder of the term, unless they shall
be sooner discharged by the court. 
SEc. 12. In case of the death, sickness or non-attendance of any
grand or petit juror after he shall have been sworn upon the jury,
or where any such juror as aforesaid, after being sworn as afore­
said, shall, for any reasonable cause, be dismissed or discharged,
it shall be lawful for the court to cause others, if necessary, to be
summoned and sworn in his or their stead. 
SEc. 13. Whenever a failure takes place to hold a regular term 
of any of the circuit courts of this state, and a special term of said
court is called, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to summon, for
said special term, the list of grand and petit jurors furnished for
the regular term preceding. 
SEc. 14. The county commissioners' courts of this state are
hereby authorized, at any special term of their courts, to select lists
of grand and pctit jurors in the manner herein provided, for any
special term of the circuit courts in their respective counties. 
SEc. 15. It shall be the duty of the county commissioners' court
to arrange and select the grand and petit jurors as aforesaid, so
that no one person shall serve on the jury a second time, before all
fit persons of the county shall have respectively served in rotation,
according to the best information that can be obtained. 
Yule, also, CIVIL PROCEDURE, COUYTIEB, JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT,
A.ND JUSTICES OF TIIE PEACE AND CO:NSTABLES. 
( Grand Jury.) 
Ssc. 3. After the grand jury is impanneled, it shall be the cluty
of the court to appoint a foreman, who shall have power to swear
or affirm witnesses to testify before them; and whose duty it shall
be, when the grand jury, or any twelve of them, find a bill of
indictment, to be supported by good and sufficient evidence, to
indorse thereon "a true bill;" and when they do not find a bill to
be supported by sufficient evidence, to indorse thereon "not a true
bill;" and shall in either case sign his name as foreman, at the
foot of said indorsement; and shall also, in each case in which a.
true bill shall be returned into court as aforesaid, note thereon the
name or names of the witness or witnesses, upon whose evidence
the same shall have been found. 
SEc. 4. Before the grand jury shall enter upon the discharge of
their duties, the following oath shall be administered to the
foreman, to wit: 
Yon, as foreman of this inquest, do solemnly swear ( or affirm, as the case may be),
&hat you will diligently inquire into, and true presentment make of all such matters
and things as shall be given you in charge, or shall otherwise come to your know­
ledge touching the present service; you shall present no person through malice,
hatred or ill-will; nor shall you leave any unpresented through fear, favor or aft'ec- 
tion, or for any fee or reward, or for any hope or promile thereof; but in all your
presentments, you shall present the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth, according to the beet of your skill and understanding: So help you God. 
And the following oath or affirmation shall be administered to 
the other jurors, to wit: 
The same oath that A- B-, your foreman, has just taken before you on his part,
1ou and each of you eb&ll well and truly keep and observe on your respective parts: 
Bo help you God. 
SEc. 5. No grand jury shall make presentments of their own
knowledge, upon the information of a less number than two of
their own body, unless the juror giving the information is previ­
ously sworn as a witness, in which case, if the evidence shall be
deemed sufficient, an indictment may be found thereon, in like
manner as upon the evidence of any other witness, who may not
be of the jury. 
( Ooruempt» of Oourt.) 
SEc. 11. Every person who shall fail to attend, when lawfully
summoned to appear as a grand or petit juror as aforesaid, with­
out having a reasonable excuse, shall be considered as guilty of a
contempt, and shall be fined by the courts respectively, in any sum
not less than five nor more than twenty dollars, for the use of the
proper county, unless good cause be shown for such default, at or
before the next term of' such court; and it shall be the duty of the
clerk to issue a. summons against all such delinquents (where such
persons shall not come in without process), to show cause at the
next succeeding term of such court, why he or they should not be
fined for such contempt; at which, or any subsequent term, the
court shall proceed to assess said fine, unless the person or persons
so summoned and failing to attend as aforesaid, shall appear and
show good cause for such delinquency : Provided, That the oath
or affirmation of any such delinquent shall at all times be received 
as competent evidence in his favor.
( Compensation of Jurymen.) 
SEc. 16. There shall be allowed and paid to grantl and petit
jurors, for their services in attending circuit courts of the several
counties in this state, the sum of seventy-five cents per day, for
every day necessary in attending courts as aforesaid, as such jurors,
and for every mile of necessary travel, to he computed from the
place of holding courts to the residence of the juror, five cents
per mile, to be paid out of the county treasury, as now provided
by law, for the payment of grand and petit jurors. 
SEc. 17. Whenever any person shall be summoned as talesmen,
to attend any circuit court as a petit juror, and shall be detained
as such longer than one day, such person so summoned shall be
allowed mileage from the place of holding courts to the residence
of such juror, in the same manner as though such person had been
originally selected and summoned. Mileage only to be computed 
OMW~ , 
Sim. 18. The clerk of the circuit court shall furnish to each of
the jurors aforesaid (and without foe), whenever he shall be dis­
charged from further service by the court, at any term thereof, a
certificate of the number of clays he may have attended at such
term, and upon the presentment thereof to the county treasurer, 
be shall pay to such person the sum above provided for his
services. 
SEc. 19. A jury fee of three dollars shall be taxed, with the
costs of each suit, which, with the docket fee provided by law,
shall be collected by the clerk of the court, and paid into the
county treasury, there to remain and be held as a special fund for
the payment of jurors' fees. 
SEc. 20. There shall be allowed to each juror in a civil case
before a judge of probate, justice of the peace, or other than in a 
circuit court, the sum of twenty-five cents. · 
SEc. 21. The fee of each juror attending an inquest held over a 
dead body shall be twenty-five cents, payable out of the county
treasury. 
AllENDATORY ACT.
[&.. IAVNJ JI'~. 12, ISM, p. 269, SMJ. 1.J 
That there shall be allowed and {>aid to grand and petit jurors,
for their services in attendin!5 circuit courts of the several counties 
in this state, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents per day, for every
day necessary in attending courts as aforesaid, as such jurors, and
also the same mileage now allowed by law, and such additional
compensation as the county courts and boards of supervisors of
the several counties, by annual order entered upon their records,
rnay think proper to allow. · 
LIMITATION OF ACTIONS. 
(1.) OF ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY. 
1. ORIGIN.AL STATUTES.* 
[&,,, Latl)I .T,l>, 18, 1828, p. 188.]
SECTION 1. That no action of ejectment, writ of right, or other 
action for the recovery of any Iands, tenements or hereditaments,
shall hereafter be maintained ; or any avowry or cognizance be
made, unless on a seizin or possession of the said lands, tenements
or hereditaments, either of the plaintifff, lessor of the plaintifff or
person making avowry or cognizance, or the ancestor or rerson 
through w horn the person bringing any of said actions, shal claim
within ten years next before such action of ejectment, writ of
right or other action brought, or avowry or cognizance made :
Provided, always, That if any person entitled to any action of
ejectment, writ of right or action for the recovery of any lands,
tenements or hereditarnents, be, at the time such suit or title first
descended or accrued, within the age of twenty-one years, f eme 
covert, insane or imprisoned, such person, his or her hell's, shall or
may, after the said ten years be expired, bring any action as afore­
said, as he or she might have done before the expiration of the
said ten years, so as such person within five years after such disa­
bility removed, or the heir or heirs of such person, within five
years after his or her death, sue forth and commence any of the
aforesaid actions, and at no time, after five years as aforesaid :
Provided, further, That nothing in this section shall be so con- ·
strued M to prevent any person from bringing any action for the
recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments, unless the per-·
son in possession of the said lands, tenements or hereditaments,
or the person under whom he or she shall claim, shall have held
and possessed the same for the term of ten years, under color of
title, and adversely to the person bringing any such action as
aforesaid. 
SEc. 2. That any disseizor dying seized of any lands, tenements
or hereditaments, baving no right or title therein, shall not be
taken or deemed any such descent in the law as to toll, or take
away the entry of any person or his heirs, who at the time of such
descent, shall have lawful right of entry therein; unless such
disseizor shall have had the peaceable possession of the lands,
tenements or hereditaments, whereof he shall so die seized, for the
space of ten years, next after the disseizin by him committed, 
without entry or continual claim by or of the person or persons
having lawful title thereto. 
[R~ Ood4 1,1,. 10, lSiT, p. W.]
· SECTION 6. That no person who now hath, or hereafter may 
have any right of entry, into an1 lands, tenements or heredita­
ments, shall make an entry therein, but within twenty years next
aft.er such right shall have accrued, and such person shall be barred
from any entry afterward. 
SEc. 7. That every real possessory, ancestral or mixed action,
or writ of right, brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements
or hereditaments, shall be brought within twenty years next after
the right or title thereto, or cause of such action accrued, and not
after : Provided, That in all the foregoing cases in this act men­
tioned, where the person or persons who shall have right of entry,
title or cause of action is, are or shall be, at the time of such
right of entry, title or cause of action, under the age of twenty­
one years, insane, beyond the limits of this state, or f eme covert,
such person or persons may make such entry, or institute such
action, so that the same be done, within such time as is within the
different sections of this act limited, after his or her becoming of
full age, sane, feme sole, or coming within this state. 
SEc. 8. That if any person or persons, against whom there is or
shall be any cause of action, as is specified in the preceding sec­
tions of this act, except real or possessory actions, shall be out of
this state, at the time of the cause of such action accruing, or any
time during which a snit might be sustained, on such cause of
action, then the person or persons who shall be entitled to such
action, shall be at liberty to bring the same against such person or
persons, after his, her or their return to this state, and the time of
such person's absence shall not be accounted or taken as a part 
of the time limited by this act.
SEc. 9. That if any of the said actions, specified in any of the 
preceding sections of this act, judgment be given for the plaintifff,
and the same be reversed by writ of error, or upon appeal, or if a.
verdict pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter alle~ed in arrest of
judgment, the jud~ment be given against the plaintifff'; or if the
plaintifff be non-suited, then, if the time limited for bringing such
action shall have expired during the pepdency of such suit, the
said plaintifff, his or her heirs, executors or administrators, as the 
case shall require, may commence a new action, within one /ear
after such judgment reversed or given against the plaintifff, an not
after. 
SEc. 1 O. The eighth section of the act entitled "An act regulating
the practice in the supreme and circuit courts of this state, and for
other purposes," approved March 22, 1819 ; and the act entitled
"An act of limitations," relating to lands and tenements, approved
February 18, 1823, be, and are hereby, repealed: Provided, That
the rights and defenses, which have accrued or arisen under the
acts hereby repealed, shall not be affected or impaired by the pass­
age of this act: Provided, further, That whore the acts hereby
repealed have commenced running, the time the same shall have
run against any cause of action hereby limited, shall be computed
part of the time limited, by this act. 
illXNDA.TORY ACTS. 
[&,.,, LmH Feb. 11, 1881, p. 11JO, &c. 1.) 
That the proviso to the seventh section of the act to which this~:::
is an amendment, shall not be held to extend to any non-resident,
unless such non-resident be under the age of twent1-one years, 
insane or f eme covert, and then, and in that case, the rights of such
persons shall be saved for the time limited by the different sections of said act, after his or her becoming of full age, sane or
feme sole. 
[&.. La'tH J<M. rr, 188G, p. ft.] 
SECTION 1. That hereafter no person who now has,or hereafter
may have any right of entry into any lands, tenements or heredita­
ments, of which any person may be possessed by actual residence
thereon, havin~ a connected title in law or equity, deducible of
record from this state or the United States, or from any public offi­
cer or other person authorized by the laws of the state, to sell such 
lands for the non-pa~'lllent of taxes, or from any sheriff, marshal or
other person authonzed to sell such land on execution, or under 
any order, judgment or decree of any court of record, shall make
any entry therein, except within seven years from the time of such
possession being taken ; but when the possessor shall acquire such
title after the time of taking such possession, the limitation shall
begin to run from the time of acquiring title. 
SEc. 2. That every real possessory, ancestral or mixed action or
writ of right, brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements or
hereditaments, of which any person may be possessed by actual
residence thereon, having a connected title in law or equity, dedu­
cible of record from this state or the United States, or from any
public officer or other person authorized by the laws of the state,
to sell such land for the non-payment of taxes, or from any sheriff,
marshal, or other person authorized to sell such land on execution,
or under any order, judgment or decree, of any court of record,
shall be brought within seven years next after possession being
taken as aforesaid; but when the possessor shall acquire such title 
after taking such possession, the limitation shall begin to run from
the time of acquiring title : Provided, That possession, as afore­
said, to bar the right, actions and suits aforesaid, shall have been
continued in manner aforesaid, for the term of seven years next
preceding the time of asserting the right of entry, or the com­
mencement of any such suit or action: And provided, further,
That the heirs, devisees and assigns of the person having such
possession and title, shall have the same benefit of this act, as the
person from whom the possession was derived, could have had by
virtue of such possession: And provided, also, That in all the
foregoing cases in this act mentioned, where the person who shall
have right of entry, title or cause of action, is or shall be at the
time possession is taken as aforesaid, under the age of twenty-one
years, insane, imprisoned, feme covert, out of the limits of tho
United States, and in the employment of this state or the United
States, such person may make such entry, or institute such action
within the time herein limited, after the several disabilities herein
enumerated shall cease to exist. 
[&,,. Law. JfaM\ s, t88t), p. 266.•] 
SECTION 1. That hereafter, every person m the actual possession
of land or tenements, under claim and color of title made in good
faith, and who shall, for seven successive years after the passage
of this act, continue in such possession, and shall also, during said
time, pay all taxes legally assessed on such land or tenements, shall
be held and adjudged to be the legal owner of said land or tene­
ments, to the extent and according to the purport of his or her
paper title. All persons holding under such possession, hy pur­
chase, devise or descent, before said seven years shall have
expired, and who shall continue such possession, and continue
to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the possession and
payment of taxes for the term aforesaid, shall be entitled to the
benefit of this section. 
SEc. 2. Hereafter, whenever a person having color of title, made
in good faith, to vacant and unoccupied land, shall, after the pass­
age of this act, pay all taxes legally assessed thereon, for seven
successive years, he or she shall be deemed and adjudged to be
the legal owner of said vacant and unoccupied land, to the extent
and according to the purport of his or her paper title. All persons
holding under such tax-payer, by purchase, devise or descent,
before said seven years shall have expired, and who shall continue
to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the payment of
taxes for the term aforesaid, shall be entitled to the bcncfi t of this
section: Provided, hoieeoer, If any person, having a better paper
title to said vacant and unoccupied land, shall, during the said
term of seven years, pay the taxes assessed on said laud for any
one or more years of the said term of seven years, then, and in
that case, such tax-payer, his heirs and assigns, shall not be entitled 
to the benefit of this section.
SEc. 3. The above sections of this act shall not extend to land 
or tenements when there shall be an adverse title to such land or
tenements, and the holder of such adverse title is under the a~e of
twenty-one years, insane, imprisoned, feme covert, out of the Inuits
of the United States, or in the employment of the United States or
of this state : Provided, Such person shall commence an action to 
recover such land or tenements so possessed as aforesaid, within
three years after the several disabilities, herein enumerated, shall
cease to exist, and shall prosecute such action to judgment, or, in
case of vacant and unoccupied land, shall, within the time last
aforesaid, pay to the person or persons who have paid the same,
all the taxes, with interest thereon, at the rate of twelve p<.·r cent.
per annum, that have been paid on said vacant and unimproved
land. 
SEc. 4. This act shall not be construed to extend to any land or
tenements owned by the United States or this state, nor to school
or seminary land, nor to land held for any public purpose. 
2. STATUTES :SOW I:S FORCE. 
[.Act of Fw. 10, 1521. Rn. Stat. 1~. Cltap. LXYI.] 
SECTION 6. No person who now hath, or hereafter may have,
. h f t ' 1 d h di 
any rig t o en ry mto any an s, tenements or ere ttaments,
shall n~ake an entry therein, but within twenty years next after 
such nght shall have accrued, and such person shall be barred
from any entry afterward. 
SEc. 7. Every real, possessory, ancestral or mixed action, or
writ of right, brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements or
hereditaruents, shall be brought within twenty years next after
the right or title thereto, or cause of such action accrued, and not
after. 
[.Act o/ Jan. 11, 198a. Rn. Stat. 1845, Cltap. LZVI.] 
SECTIO:N 8. Every real, possessory, ancestral or mixed action,
or writ of right, brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements 
or hereditaments, of which any person may be possessed by actual
residence tbereorl,ha.ving a connected title in law or equity, dedueible of record, from this state or the United States, or from any
public officer or other person authorized by the laws of this state,
to sell such land for the non-payment of taxes, or from any sheriff,
marshal or other person authorized to sell such land on execution,
or under any order, judgment or decree of any court of record, shall
be brought within seven years next after possession being taken as
aforesaid ; but when the possessor shall acquire such title after
taking such possession, the limitation shall begin to run from the
time of acquiring title. 
SEc. 9. Possession, as described in the preceding section, to bar
the rights, actions and suits aforesaid, shall have been continued in
manner aforesaid, for the term of seven years next preceding the
time of asserting the right of entry, or the commencement of any
such suit or action. 
SEc. 10. The heirs, devisees and assigns of the person having
such possession and title, shall have the same benefit of this chap­ 
ter as the person from whom the possession was derived could 
have had, by virtue of such possession. 
SEc. 11. No person who has, or may have, any right of entry
into auy lands, tenements or hereditamcnts, of which any person
may be possessed by actual residence thereon, having a connected
title in Jaw or equity, deducible of record, from this state or the
United States, or from any public officer or other person author­
ized by the laws of this state to sell such lands for non-payment of
taxes, or from any sheriff marshal or other person authorized to
sell such land on execution, or under any order, jud~ent or
decree of any court of record, shall make any entry therein, except
within seven years from the time of such possession being taken;
but when the posl"-1<'880r shall acquire such title after the time of
taking such J>MSl'RRion, the limitation shall begin to run from the
time of acqmriryg,titlc. - 
/ c,,~. ~-0--=-- ~/ t 
1 
ACT OF MARCH 2, 1831. 
[R~. 8tat. ts.6, <Jl,4p. XZIY.J I
SECTION 8. Every person in the actUJU possession of lands or 
tenements, under claim and color of titlefimade in good faith, and
who shall, for seven SUCCessive years~continue in such possession, 
and shall also, during said time, pay all taxei legally assessed on
such lands o! tenements, shall be held and adjudged to be th~ legal 
owner of said lands or tenements, to the extent, and according to
the purport, of his or her paper title."' All persons holding under 
such possession, by purchase, devise or descent, before said seven
years shall have expired, and who shall continue such possession, 
and continue to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the
possession and payment of taxes for the term aforesaid, shall be
entitled to the benefit of this section. .J. 
Sao. 9. Whenever a person having color of title, made in good
faith, to vacant and unocupied land, shall pay all taxes! legally 
assessed thereon for seven successive years/lie or she shall be
deemed and adjudged to be the legal owner of said vacant and 
unoccupied land, to the extent, and according to the purport, of
his or her paper title."'f All persons holding under such tax payer,
by {>urchase, devise or descent, before said seven years shall have 
expired, and who shall continue to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so
as to complete the payment of taxes for the term aforesaid, shall
be entitled to the benefit of this section : Provided, lunoecer, If
any person, having a. better paper title to said . vacant and unoc­
cupied land, shall, during the said term of seven years, pay the taxes
assessed on said land for all'}' one or more years of the said term
of seven years, then, and m that case, such tax payer, his heirs
and assigns, shall not be entitled to the benefit of this section. 
SEC. IO. The two precedin& ... sections shall not extend to lands
or, tenements owned by the united States or this state, nor to 
school and seminary lands, nor to lands held for the use of religious
societies, nor to lands held for any public purpose. Nor shall they
extend to lands or tenements when there shall be an adverse title
to such lands or tenements, and the holder of such adverse title is
under the a.~e of twenty-one years, insane, imprisoned, feme covert,
out of the limits of the United States, and in the employment of
the United States, or of this state : Provided, Such person shall
commence an action, to recover such lands or tenements so pos­
sessed as aforesaid, within three years after the several disabilities
herein enumerated shall cease to exist, and shall prosecute such
action to judgment; or, in case of vacant and unoccupied land,
shall, within the time last aforesaid, pay to the person or persons
who have paid the same, all the taxes, with interest thereon, at
the rate of twelve per cent. per annum, that have been paid on 
said vacant and unimproved land. . _ 
I h, ,, »« .... a,./ H. ~ .sc«: o C)4 
r ~ ~- 
(2.) or ALL OTHER ACTIONS. 
[R,e. /Jlat. ts«cs, <Jl&ap. LIVI.] 
SECTION I. All actions of trespass qu<me claueum. fregit, all
actions of trespass, detinue, trover and replevin, for taking away~ 
~
oods and chattels, all actions for arrearages of rent, due on a parol 
. . th .
emise, and all actions of account, and upon e case, except actions 
for slander, and except also, actions for maliciou~ prosecution, and
such actions as concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant and merchant, their factors or agents, shall be commenced 
within five years next after the cause of such actions shall have
accrued, and not after. 
SEc. 2. All actions of trespass for assault, battery, wounding
and imprisonment, or any of them, shall be commenced within two 
years next after the cause of such actions shall have accrued, and
not after. · 
SEc. 3. Every action upon the case for words, shall be commenced within one year next after the words spoken, and not after; 
and every action for malicious prosecution shall be commenced
within two years next after the cause of action shall have accrued, 
and not after. 
SEc. 4. Every action of debt or covenant, for rent or arrearages
of rent, founded upon any lease under seal, and eve!1. action of' 
debt or covenant, founded upon any single or penal bill, promissory note or writing obligatory, for the direct payment of money,
or the delivery of property, or the performance of covenants, or
upon any award under the hands and seals of arbitrators, for
the payment of money only, shall be commenced within. sixteen
years after the cause of such action shall have accrued, and not 
after ; but if any r.ayment shall have been made on any such lease,
single or penal bil , promissory note, writing obligatory or award, 
· within or after the said _penod of sixteen years, then an action
instituted on such lease, single or penal bill, promissory note, writ­
ing obligatory or award, within sixteen years after such payment,
shall be good and effectual in law, and not after. 
SEC. 5. Judgment in any court of record in this state, may 
be revived by sci re f acim, or an action of debt may be brought 
thereon, within twenty years next after the date of such judgment,
and not after, 
SA VINO CLAUSES APPLICABLE TO .ALL TBE ACTIONS AND CASES
SPECIFIED IN CHAP. LXVI., REV. STAT. 1845, SECS. 1-11. 
SECTION 12. If, in any of the said actions specified in any of the
preceding sections of this chapter, judgment be given for the
plaintifff, and the same be reversed by writ of error, or upon appeal;
or if a verdict pass for the plaintifff, and upon matter alleged in
arrest of' judgment, the judgment be given against the plaintifff;
or if the plaintifff be non-suited, then, if the time limited for bringin~ such action shall have expired during the pendency of such
suit, the said plaintifff, his or her heirs, executors or administrators,
as the case shall require, may commence a new action, within one
year after such judgment reversed or given against the plaintifff,
and not after. 
SEc. 13. If any person or persons against whom there is or shall
be any cause of action, as is specified in the preceding sections of
this chapter, except real or possessory actions, shall be out of this
state at the time of the cause of such action accruing, or any time
during which a suit might be sustained on such cause of action,
then the person or persons who shall be entitled to such action,
shall be at liberty to bring the same against such person or per­
sons, after his, her or their return to this state, and the ti.me of such
person's absence shall not be accounted or taken as part of the
time limited by this chapter. . 
SEc. 14. In all the foregoing cases, in which the person or per­
sons who shall have right of entry, title or cause of action is, are
or shall be, at the time of such right of entry, title or cause of
action, under the age of twenty-one years, insane or feme covert,
Ruch person or persons may make such entry or institute such
action, .so that the same be done within such time as is within the
different sections of this chapter limited, after his or her becoming 
of full age, sane or f eme sole. 
AME:m>ATORY ACTS. 
[&at. !A1D, lib. 10, 18'9, s- 182.] 
SECTION 1. That all actions of trespass, detinue, trover and
l . ll • ~ d d • bill f 
rep evm ; a actions roun e on any promissory note, 1 o 
exchansre book account or simple contract· all actions founded 
o , , , 
on any J5romissory note, bond, judgment, contract or indebtedness,
executed, rendered, entered into, or accrued, beyond the limits of 
this state, and all actions on the case, shall be commenced within
fl '1 h h f h · 
ve years next atter sue recovery, or t o cause o sue action
sl~all have acc!'~ed, and n?t after, All parts of acts inconsistent 
with the provisions of this act be, and the same are, hereby
repealed. 
Sze, 2. This act shall be subject to the same conditions as are
provided in the twelfth section of the sixty-sixth chapter of the
revised statutes, entitled " Limitations." 
[&u. LattD, Nff. IS, 1849, p. 81.] 
SECTION 1. That all actions founded upon any promissory note,
simple contract in writing, bond, judgment or other evidence of
indebtedness in writing, made, caused or entered into, after the
passage of this act, shall be commenced within sixteen years after
the cause of action accrued, and not thereafter. 
SEc. 2. All actions founded upon accounts, bills of exchange,
d . , . • 
or ers, or upon pronuses not m wntmg, express or implied, made
after the passage of this act, shall be commenced within five 
years next after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not
thereafter. 
SEc. 3. That this act, and the several acts to which this is an
amendment, shall be subject to the several provisions, conditions
and restrictions contained in the twelfth and thirteenth sections
of the sixty-sixth chapter of the revised statutes of this state. 
SEc. 4. So much of the sixty-sixth chapter of the said revised
statutes entitled " Limitations," as is in conflict with this act, is
hereby repealed, and so much of the said act amendatory thereof,
passed February tenth, one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine, 
as is inconsistent with this act, is hereby repealed: Provided,
al?wys, That the several acts aforesaid shall be hereafter, in all
actions instituted upon causes of action arising during the period
in which said laws were respectively in force, be the rule of limi­
tations and adjudication in all such cases, and that neither this act,
nor said amendatory act, shall be so construed as to limit or affect
the right of action upon any matter of indebtedness or cause of
action existing or accruing before their several enactment. 
SEC. 5. No action of debt shall be maintained on any open
account or any promise, not in writing, unless the same be brought~~ 
within five years next after the cause of' action accrued; but if'
said cause of' action has accrncd five years before the passage of
this act, then such action shall not be maintained, unless the suit
is brought within two years next after the passage of this act. 
[Sul. Law Feb. 1T, 1~1, p. 182.]
SECTION 1. That all causes of action which· accrued during 
the time that the act entitled "An act to amend the sixth chap- 
f 1
. d itl d J . . . , ,, 
ter o t ie revise statutes, enti e ' .... imitations, approved on
the tenth clay of February, one thousand eight hundred and fortynine, was in force, and where a different period is prescribed
by that act from the one provided by the act entitled "An act to
amend the several acts concerning limitations of actions," approved
on the fifth clay of November, one thousand eight hundred and
forty-nine, shall be governed by the provisions of the latter act. 
SEC. 2. That all causes of action existing at the time, or which
had accrued prior to the thirteenth day of April one thousand 
• • ' • 
eight hundred and forty-nine, when the first of the above recited
acts became a law, and for the barring of which there was no previous statute, shall be governed by the provisions of that act; tho
time limited thereby to commence to run from and aft.er said act
became a law. 

