PART SECOND.

CONCERNING THE CIVIL PROCEDURE OF COURTS, AND THEIR
JURISDICTION IN CIVIL MATTERS.

CHAPTER 1.

AN ACT to revise, simplify and abridge the Rules, Practice, Pleading: and
Forms in Civil Cases in the Courts of this State—to abolish distinct forms of
action at law, and to provide for the administration of justice in a uniform
mode of pleading and practice, without distinction between law and equity.

[Arrnovnn J um: 18, 1852.]

ARTICLE 1.

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State 0/’ Indiana, That the distinction between actions at law
and suits in equity and the forms of all such actions and suits
heretofore existing are abolished, and there shall be in this
State, hereafter, but one form of action for the enforcement
or protection of private rights, and the redress of private
wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil action.

Sec. 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.

ARTICLE II.

Parties to- Actions.

Sec. 3. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of I
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in
the next section; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out
of contract.‘

SEC. 4. An executor, administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue, without joining with him the person for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express
trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed
to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another. It shall not be

necessary to make an idiot or lunatic a joint party with his
guardian or committee, except as may be required by statute.

Sec. 5. In all cases where actions survive, they may be
commenced by or against the representatives of the deceased
to whom the interest in the subject matter of the action has
passed.

Sec. 6. When any action is brought by the assignee of a
claimarising out of contract, and not assigned by endorsement in writing, the assignor shall be ma e a defendant, to
answer as to the assignment, or his interest in the subject of
the action. And all actions by assignees shall be without
prejudice to any set-off or other defense existing at the time
of, or before notice of the assi nment, except actions on
negotiable promissory notes an bills of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due.‘

Sec. 7. Actions upon official "bonds, and bonds payable
to the State, sha:l be brought in the name of the State of
Indiana, upon the relation of the party interested.

Sec. 8. When a married woman is a party, her husband

must be joined with her; except:

First. When the action concerns her separate property,

she may sue alone.
Second. When the action is between herself and her
husband, she may sue or be sued alone; but in no case shall

she be required to sue or defend by guardian or next friend,
except she be under the age of twenty-one yearsSEC, 9. If a husband and wife are sued together, and th
action relates to her separate property, the wife may defend
in her own right; and, if the husband neglect to defend, she
may defend in his right also.

See. 10. When an infant shall have a right of action,

such infant shall be entitled to maintain suit thereon, and
the same shall not be delayed or deferred on account of such
infant not being of full age. .

Sec. 11. Before any rocess shall be issued in the name
of an infant, who is a so e plaintifff, a competent and responsible person shall consent in writing to appear, as the next
friend of such infant, and such next friend shall be responsible
for the costs of such action, and thereupon process shall issue
as in other cases; but where it shall appear to the court that
such next friend is incompetent, or irresponsible, the court
may remove him, and permit some suitable person to be
substituted, without prejudice to the progress o the actionsf

Sec. 12. The court in its discretion may require the next
friend of an infant, in an action for the recovery of any debt”

or dama es, to execute a written undertaking to such infant,
with sutlgcient sureties, to be approved by the court, that the
next friend shall duly account to the infant for all monies
which may be recovered in such action.

Sec. 13. An infant defendant shall appear and defend, by
guardian appointed by the court, or chosen by such infant

‘ with the consent of the court]:

consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff
cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question
is one of a common or general interest of many persons, or
where the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for

the benefit of the whole.

Sec. 20. Persons severally and immediately liable upon
the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to
bills of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of
them, be included in the same_ action, at the option of the
plaintifff. »

Sec. 21. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of
death, marriage or other disability of a party, the court, on
motion, or supplemental complaint, at any time within one
year, or on supplemental complaint afterwards, may allow the
action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer of interest,
the action shall be continued in the name of the original party;
or, the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is
made to be substituted in the action.

See. 22. The court may determine any controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but

when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be
had, without the presence of other parties, the court must
cabse them to be joined as proper parties. And when, in an
action for the recovery of real or personal property, a person
not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject
thereof, makes application to the court to be made a party, it
may order him to be made a °party, by the proper amendment. 2 .

. ‘Sec. 23. A defendant against whom an action is pending
upon a contract, or forspecific, real or personal property,
may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person
not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
makes against him a demand for the same debt or propert ,
upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party, apply
to the court for an order to substitute such person in his
place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his
depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the
property, or its value, to such ‘person as the court may direct;
and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.

Sec. 24. Any unmarried female may prosecute as plaintifff
an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein
such damages as may be assessed in her favor.’ ~

Sec. 25. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of
his family, or imprisonment, the mother, may prosecute as
plaintifff for the seduction of the daughter; and the guardian,
for the seduction of the ward, though the dau hter or ward
be not living with, or in the service of, the p aintiff, at the
time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no loss of
service. When the action is brought by the guardian, the
damages recovered shall inure to the ward.‘|'

Sac. 26. When a husband or father has deserted his family,‘
or is imprisoned, the wife or mother may prosecute or defend§
in his name, any action which he might have prosecuted or
defended, and shall have the same powers and rights therein
as he might have had.

Sec. 27. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of:
his family, or imprisonment, the mother, may maintain an‘
action for the injury or death of a child; and a guardian, for
the injury or death of his ward. But when the action is
brought by the guardian for an injury to his ward, the damages
shall inure to the benefit of the ward.

ARTICLE III.

Actions—— Where commenced.

Sac. 28. Actions for the followin causes must be com-.
menced in the county in which the su ject of the action, or‘
some part thereof, is situated:

First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property.

Second. For the partition of real property.

Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Sac. 29. Actions for the following causes must be commenced in the county where the cause, or some part thereof
arose:

First. For the recovery of a penalty, or forfeiture imposed
by statute, except,when imposed for an offense committed on
a lake or river, or other stream of water, situated in two or
more counties, the action may be brought in any county
bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the
place where the offense was committed.

Second. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute his «duties, for an act done by him in virtue
of his office; or against a person who, by his command, or in
his aid, shall do anything touching the duties of such officer.
In all cases enumerated in this and the section immediately
preceding it, process may issue to and be served in any county
in the State.

Sac. 30. When a corporation, company, or an individual,
has an office or agency in any county for the transaction of
business, any action growing out of or connected with the
business of such office, may be brought in the county where
the office or agency is located, at the option of the plaintifff,
as though the principal resided therein, and service upon any
agent or clerk employed‘ in the office or agency, shall be
sufficient service upon the principal; or process may be sent
to any county and served upon the principal.

Sac. 31. An action to establish or set aside awill,must be
brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought,
accordin to law, to be proved and recorded.”"

Sec. 3 . An action against a railroad or canal corporation,
or company, or owner of a line of stages or coaches, for an
injury to person or property upon the railroad, canal, or line
of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a
carrier, may be brought in any county through or into which
such railroad, canal, or line of stages or coaches passes; and
the summons may be served in any county in the States!‘

See. 33. In all other cases the action shall be commenced
in the county where the defendants, or one of them, has his
usual place of residence. When there are several defendants,
residing in different counties, the action may be brought in
any county where either defendant resides, and a separate
summons may be issued to any other county where the other
defendants may be found; and in cases of non-residents, or
persons having no permanent residence in the State, action
may be commenced and process served in any county where
they may be found.

ARTICLE IV. _

Commencement of actions and service of summons. '

Sec. 34. A civil action shall be commenced by filing in
the office of the clerk a complaint, and causing a summons to
issue thereon; and the action shall be deemed to be commenced from the time of issuing the summons; but, as to
those against whom publication is made, from the time of the
first publication. The summons shall be issued by the clerk,
under the seal of the court, and directed to the sheriff, and
shall notify the defendant of the action commenced, the parties
thereto, and the court where pending. t

See. 35. The summons shall be served, either personally
on the defendant, or by leaving a copy thereof - at his usual
or last place of residence. An acknowledgment on the back
of the process, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is
equivalent to service. i

Sec. 36. The process against a corporation may be served on the president, presiding officer, mayor, chairman of
the board of trustees, or if its chief officer is not found in the
county, then upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk,
general or special agent, or, if it is a municipal corporation,
upon its marshal, or, if it is an incorporated library company, upon its librarian; if none of the officers aforesaid can be
found, then upon any person authorized to transact business

in the name of such corporation.

Sec. 37. N o summons, or the service thereof, shall be set:
aside, or be adjudged insufficient, where there is sufficient sub-7
stance about either to inform the party on whom it may be
served, that there is an action instituted against him in court.

Sec. 38. Where it appears, by affidavit filed, that a cause:
of action exists against any defendant, or that he is a neces-}
sary party to an action, in relation to real estate, the clerk,
by order of the court, if in session, or in vacation without
such order, shall cause a notice of the pendency of such
action, and the term at which the same will stand for trial,
to be published for three weeks successively, in some newspaper of general circulation printed in the county, or if none
be printed therein, then in the county in this State nearest
thereto in which any such newspaper is printed, in either
of the following cases, shown by affidavit:

First. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation, and
has property within the State, or the cause of action arose
therein.

Second. Where the defendant, being a resident of this
State, has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his

creditors, or to avoid the service of the summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein, with a like intent.

Third. In all cases where the defendant is not a resident
of this State, and the cause of action is founded upon or
connected with a contract, or arises from a duty imposed by
law, or the object of the action is to enforce or discharge a
lien, or to obtain a divorce. w

Sec. 39. When the defendant is a non-resident, personal
service of the summons out of the State is equivalent to
publication, and such service may be proved by the affidavit
of a competent person, made before any officer authorized
to administer oaths; which affidavit shall state the time and
place, and mode of giving the notice, and set forth that the
person thus served with notice is the identical person named
in the action or proceeding; or .the identity of the person
served may be proved by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or any
other person.

Sec. 40. In cases where it shall be necessary to make any
persons defendants to any action, and the names of all or
any of them shall be unknown to the plaintifff, and he shall
annex to his complaint an affidavit of his want of knowled e
of their names, and that their residence is, as he veri y
believes, not in this State, proceedings may be had against
them without naming them: and the court shall make such
order respecting notice, and the publication thereof, as may
be deemed proper.

Sec. 41. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or more, but not all
of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:

First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
on contract, he may proceed against the defendant served,
and if he recover jud ment, it may be enforced against the
joint property of al , and the separate property of the
defendant served; or, a

Second. If the action be ainst defendants severally
liable, he may proceed against t e defendants served in the
same manner as if they were the only defendants, and may
afterwards proceed against those not served.

Third. If all the defendants have been served, judgment
may be taken against any or either of them severally when
the plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such
defendant or defendants, if the action had been against them
or any of them alone.

L Sec. 42. When there is a return of “not found” as to
any of the defendants, such return shall be suggested on the
record, and the plaintifff may continue the cause as to them
for another summons at his option; and he may, in either

case, proceed immediately against the defendants served in
time. Sec. 43. Parties against whom a jud ment has been ren-,
dered without other notice than the pub ication in the news-'
paper herein required, except in cases of divorce, may at any
time withinfive years after the rendition of the judgment,
have the same opened, and be allowed to defend.

Sec. 44. But before any judgment shall be opened, such
party shall give notice to the original complainant, or his
heirs, devisees, executors or administrators, of his intention
to make application to have the judgment opened as the
court, in term, or the judge thereof, in vacation, shall require;
and shall file a full answer to the original complaint, and an
affidavit stating that during the pendency of the action, he
received no actual notice thereof in time to appear in court
and object to the judgment, and shall also pay all such costs
of the action as the court shall direct.

Sac. 45. If any property, which was the subject of, or
properly sold under any jud ment sought to be opened as;
provided in the last two preceging sections, shall have passed
into the hands of a purchaser in good faith, he shall not be
affected by any proceedings consequent upon the opening of

the judgment.
ARTICLE V.
Pleadings.

Sec. 46. The pleadings are formal allegations by the;
parties of their respective claims and defenses for the judg-1
ment of the court.

Snc. 47. All the distinct forms of pleading heretofore
existing, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are‘
hereby abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleadin s in
civil actions, in courts of record, and the rules by whic the
sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, are modified
as prescribed by this act.

Sec. 48. The only pleadings allowed are,

First. The complaint by the plaintifff;

Second. The demurrer and answer by the defendant;

Third. The demurrer and reply, by the plaintifff.

Complaint.

S30. 49. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, is i
the complaint. The complaint shall contain, ,
First. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court and county, in which the action is brought, and the

names of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, in plain and concise language, without repetition,
and in such manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

Third. Where the complaint contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate
paragraph and numbered.

Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff may
suppose himself entitled. If the recovery of money be
demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.

Demurrer.

Sec. 50. The defendant may demur to the complaint

- when it appears upon the face thereof, either,

First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person
of the defendant, or the subject of the action; or,

Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue;
or,

Third. That there is another action pending between the
ame parties for the same cause; or,

Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or
defendant; or,

F2:/Zk. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action; or,

Six:/z. That several causes of action have been improperly united;
And for no other cause shall a demurrer be sustained; and,
unless the demurrer shall distinctly specify and number the

grounds of objection to the complaint, it shall be overruled.

Sac. 51. Where a demurrer is sustained on the ground
of several causes of action being improperly united in the
same complaint, the court shall order the misjoinder to be
noted on the order book, and cause as many separate actions
to be docketed between the parties as there are causes decided
by the court to be improperly joined; and each shall stand
as a separate action, and the plaintifff shall thereupon file a
complaint in each of the above cases, to which the defendant
shall enter his appearance, and plead and go to trial, or suffer
a default, in the same manner as in the original action.

Sec. 52. No judgment shall ever be reversed for any
error committed in sustaining or overruling a demurrer for
misjoinder of causes of action.

Sec. 53. If the court sustain a demurrer, the plaintifff
may amend by the payment of the costs occasioned thereby.

Sec. 54. When any of the matters enumerated in section
fifty do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection (except for misjoinder of causes.) may be taken by
answer. If no such objection is taken, either by demurrer,
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the

same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court
over the subject of the action.

S30. 55. The defendant may demur to one or more of
the several causes of action alleged in the complaint, and

answer as to the residue.

e 447131081‘.

Sac. 56. The answer shall contain,

First. A denial of each allegation of the complaint con-f

troverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief.

Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counterclaim, or set-off, in plain and concise langu e, without repetition.

hird. The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off, whether
legal or equitable, as he shall have. Each shall be distinctly
stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered, and clearly
refer to the cause of action intended to be answered.

SEC. 57. The set-off shall be allowed only in actions for,
money demands upon contract, and must consist of matter
arising out of a debt, duty, or contract, liquidated or not,
held by the defendant at the time the suit was commenced,
and matured, at or before the time it is offered as a set-off. "‘

thereto in his answer, and demand relief, and thereupon a
summons shall issue, and other proceedings be had against
him as if such matter had been exhibited in the original comlaint.

P Sac. 64. Where the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient to constitute a cause of defense, the plaintifff may demm‘ to one or more of several defenses, under the same rules
and regulations as heretofore prescribed for demurring to the
complaint. Unless the objection be taken by demurrer, it
shall be deemed to be waived.

Sac. 65. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant
or committee of a person of unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner, to file an answer, denying the material
allegations of the complaint, prejudicial to such defendant,
without oath.

Sec. 66. All defenses, except the mere denial of the facts
alleged by the plaintifff, shall he pleaded specially.

Reply.

. Size. 67. When the answer contains new matter, the plain‘tiff may reply thereto, denying each allegation controverted
by him or any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to
form a belief; and he may allege in plain and concise language,
without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the
complaint, and constituting a defense to the answer; the defendant may demur to a reply for any of the causes specified
for demurring to a complaint. *

Time :3] pleading.

Sec. 68. On the second and each succeeding day of the
irterm, the court shall call as many of the causes which stand
for trial at such term, for issues, as the business of the court
will permit; the court shall call the causes in the order they
stand on the docket, and shall compel the parties to file their
respective pleadings, and answers to interrogatories, at such
time as the court shall deem just, in no case allowing unreasonable delay; and the pleadings shall be completed at an early
day of the term.

Sec. 69. If, from any cause, either party shall fail to plead
or make up the issues within the time prescribed, the court
shall forthwith enter judgment as upon a default, unless for
good cause shown, further time be given for pleading, on the
payment of the costs occasioned by the delay.

Joinder of Causes of Action.

Sec. '70. The plaintifff may unite several causes‘ of action‘

in the same complaint, where they are included in either one:
of the following classes:

First. Money demands on contract;

:Sccond. Injuries to property;

Third. Injuries to person or character;

Fourth. Claims to recover the possession of personal
property, with, or without damages for the withholding
thereof, and for injuries to the property withheld; .

‘Fzfth. Claims to recover the possession of real property,
with or without damages, rents and profits for withholding
thereof; to make partition of, and to determine and quiet
the title to, real property:

Sixth. Claims to enforce the specific performance of contracts, and to avoid contracts for fraud or mistakes.

Seventh. Claims to foreclose mortgages; to enforce or
discharge specific liens; to subject to sale real property,
upon demands against decedents’ estates, when such property
has passed to heirs, devisees, or their assigns; to marshal
assets; and to substitute one person to the rights of another;
and all other causes of action, arising out of a contract
or a duty, and not falling within either of the fore oing
classes; but causes of action, so joined, must affect al the
parties to the action, and not require different places of trial,
and must be separately stated and numbered.

Sec. 71. When the plaintifff desires to recover the possession of title papers, or other instruments of writing, or correct
any mistakes therein, a separate action may be brought
therefore; or the possession of such title papers, or other instruments of writing, may be recovered,or mistakes corrected,
in any other action, when such recovery or correction would
be essential to a com lete remedy.

Sec. 72. When t e action arises out of contract, the
plaintifff may join such other matters in his complaint as may
be necessary for a complete remedy, and a speedy satisfaction
of his judgment, although such other matters fall within some
other one or more of ‘the foregoing classes. When several
causes of action are united, belonging to any of the foregoing
classes, the court may order separate trials for the furtherance
of justice.

Rules of Pleading.

Sec. 73. Every pleading in a court of record must be subscribed by the party, or his attorney.

Snc. 74. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
specifically controverted by the answer, and every material
allegation of new matter in the answer, not specifically controverted by the reply, shall, for the urposes of the action,
be taken as true; but the allegation o «new matter in a reply,
is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon
a direct denial, or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations of value, or amount of damage, shall not be considered
as true by the failure to controvert them.

See. 75. Pleadings sworn to by either party, in any case,

shall not, on the trial, be deemed proof of the facts alleged

therein, nor require other or greater proof on the part of the
adverse party, than those not sworn to. \

Sec. 76. When the pleadings show sufficient excuse for not
admittin or denyin an allegation, such excuse operates as a
denial o the truth 0 the allegation, and to require its proof.

Size. 77. All frivolous demurrers and motions shall be
overruled; all sham defenses shall be rejected; all surplusage,
tautology, and irrelevant matter shall be set aside, when
pointed out by the party aggrieved. ‘

Sec. 78. When any pleading is founded on a written instrument or on account, the original or a copy thereof, must
be filed with the pleading. A set-off or a counterclaim is
within the meaning of this section. Such copy of a written
instrument, when not copied in the pleadings, shall be taken
as part of the record. The account, if the items are numerous,
shall not be copied in the pleadings, nor deemed to be partof
the record, unless by order of the court. Any variance
between any pleading and copy of a written instrument filed,
as to matter of description, or legal effect, may be amended
at any time, as of course, before judgment, without causing
a continuance."“

SEC. 79. The court, on motion, may order a further bill
of particulars, when the one delivered is defective; and may,
in all proper cases, upon motion, order a bill of particulars of
the claim of either party, and abstracts of title to be furnished.

Sec. 80. Where a writing, purporting to have been executed by one of the parties, is the foundation of, or referred to
in any.pleading, it may be read in evidence on the trial of the
cause against such party, without proving its execution, unless

its execution be denied by affidavit before the commencement t

of the trial, or unless denied by a pleading under oath. The
latter party shall, in all cases, have inspection of the instrument of writing before pleading.

Sec. 81. A failure or want of consideration in whole or in
part, may be pleaded to any action, set-off, or counterclaim
upon or arising out of any specialty bond or deed, except instrnments negotiable by the law merchant, and negotiated
before fallin due.

See. 82. %n any action or defense founded on a bill or note,
or other contract, for the payment of money at a particular
place, it shall not be necessary to aver or prove a demand at
the place, but the opposite party may show a readiness to
pay such demand at the proper place.

Sec. 83. In leading a judgment or decision of a court or
officer of specia jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to allege,
generally, that the judgment or decision was duly given or
made. If the allegation be denied, the facts conferring jurisdiction must be proved on the trial.

See. 84. In pleading the performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to allege, generally,
that the party performed all the conditions on his part; if the
allegation be denied, the facts showing the performance must
be proved on the trial.

See. 85. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its
title, and the day of its approval, and the court shall take
judicial notice thereof.

Sec. 86. In an action for libel or slander, it shall l)e'SlllIlcient to state generally that the defarnato1'y matter was
published or spoken of the plaintifff; and if the allegation be
denied, the laintiff must prove, on the trial, the facts showing
that the de amatory matter was published or spoken of him.‘

See. 87. In all actions mentioned in the last section, the‘
defendant ‘may allege the truth of the matter charged as'

defamatory, and mitigating circumstances to reduce the
damages, and ive either or both in evidence.

See. 88. either presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading.

Sec. 89. In an action to recover the possession ofproperty
distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or
person by Whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed
of the real property upon which the distress was made, and
that the pro erty distrained was at the time doing damage
thereon, shal be good without setting forth the title of such

real prog.-.rty.

Sec. . In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effects, its allegations shall be liberally construed with a view to substantial justice between the parties;
but when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or
uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is
not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made
definite and certain by amendment.

Snc._9l. Under a mere denial of any allegation, no eviand meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

Sec. 97. Any pleading may be amended by either party
of course at any time before the pleading is answered. All
other amendments shall be by leave of the court. The party
amending shall pay the costs of the leave to amend. When
the trial is not delayed by reason of the amendment, no other
costs shall be taxed. When the amendment causes a delay
during any part of" the term, or to another term, the party
amending shall pay the costs of such delay. No cause shall
be delayed by reason of an amendment, excepting only the
time to make up issues, but upon good cause shown by affidavit of the party or his agent asking such delay.

SEC. 98. The affidavit shall show distinctly in what respect the party asking the delay has been prejudiced in his

preparation for trial by the amendment. When the action is
continued for such cause, the party asking the delay shall file
his pleadings at such time as the court may direct.

Sec. 99. The court may at any time, in its discretion,

and upon such terms as may be deemed proper, for the furtherance of justice, direct the name of any party to be added
or struck out; a mistake in name, description, or legal effect,
or in any other respect, to be corrected; any material allegation to be inserted, struck out, or modified to conform the
pleadings to the facts proved; when the amendment does not
substantially change the claim or defense. The court may
also, in its discretion, allow a party to file his pleadings after
the time limited therefore; and at any time within one year
relieve a party from a judgment taken against him through

I

Sec. 100. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name of
the defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name
is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly, either before or after service of the summons.

Sec. 101. The court must in every stage of the action

"disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings

which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse
party, and no judgment can be reversed or affected by reason

of such error or defect.
Sir-:c. 102. The court may on motion allow supplemental

pleadings, showing facts which occurred after the former
pleadings were filed.

ARTICLE VI.

Arrest and Bail.

Site. 103. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested
and held to bail only upon the conditions and in the manner
prescribed in this chapter.

Snc. 104. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be made by the court in term time, in which the action is
brought, or by the clerk thereof in vacation, at the commencementofthe action, or any time before judgment,when
there is filed in the oilice of such clerk an aiiidavitii of the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, specifying the plaintifff’s right
to recover an existing debt, or damages from the defendant,
and stating that he believes the defendant is about to leave
the State, taking with him property subject to execution, or
money or effects which should be applied to the pay_ment of

the plaintiffPs debt or damages, with intent to defraud the
plaintifff.

Sec. 105. The order of arrest shall not be issued until
there has been executed and filed, in‘ the office of the clerk‘ of
such court, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff,
to be approved by the clerk or court making the order, a
written undertal-tin to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay
to the defendant al damages which he may sustain by reason
of the arrest if the order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim stated in

the affidavit.
Sec. 106. The order of arrest shall be addressed and de-*

livered to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties5
to the action, the court in which the action is brought, and‘
the amount of the plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit,
and shall require the sheriff to arrest the defendant and
hold him to bail in the sum of the plaintifff's claim, with
the costs of the action, and to make return of the order on
a day to be named therein, with the recognizance, if any is

taken.
Sec. 107. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting,

the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged

by law.

Sec. 108. When an order of arrest and hail is executed,:

:

the sheriff shall take a recognizance of special hail of some
responsible person resident of this State, in substance that
the surety acknowledges himself special bail for the defendant in the action, which shall be indorsed on the order of
arrest, and signed by the surety, and shall have the force
and effect of a recognizance of special bail, and be obligatory

as such.’

Sec. 109. It shall be the duty of the sheriff to return the
order of arrest to the office whence it issued, immediately
upon taking and approving of the recognizance of special bail,
when bail is taken; and in all other cases, on the return day.
And in all cases the officer shall indorse his doings thereon.

Sec. 110. Any such recognizance of special bail shall
only amount to an undertaking that the defendant will surrender his body or the money, property and effects, or the
value thereof, held or owned by him at the time of making
such affidavit, and in default of such surrender the surety in
such recognizance shall only be liable for the amount of the
property, monies and effects, which the plaintifff may show
the defendant to have held or owned at the time of making
such affidavit exceeding the amount exempt from execution.

Sec. III. When any person shall be committedto prison
on an order of arrest, for want of special bail, he may sue
out a writ of habeas cmpus in any court or before any judge
of competent jurisdiction, and on the return thereof, the

plaintifff shall be compelled to show that the facts alleged in

the affidavit, on which the defendant is held to bail are true,
and on failure to do so, the defendant shall be discharged.

Sec. ll2. When any person is committed for want of
bail, he shall be held in prison unless he is bailed or otherwise
legally discharged, until final judgment in the action in which
he is arrested, and if the judgment be against him, he shall
be held for such time thereafter as the court shall direct, not
exceeding ten days.

Sec. 113. If the plaintifff deem the bail insufficient, he

may, at the term to which the writ is returnable, or at any
term thereafter, before final judgment, object to the sufficiency
of the bail by giving three days’ notice of the objection to
the sheriff.

SEC. 114. At the time specified in such notice, the court
shall proceed to hear and determine as to the sufficiency of
the bail; if adjudged insufficient, and other bail, approved by
the court. is not given, the bail shall not be thereby discharged,
but may be proceeded against by the plaintifff; and if he cannot recover the amount for which such bail may have become
liable, the sheriff shall be liable on his official bond for the
same, or so much as may remain unsatisfied, and for the costs
of the action a ainst the bail.

Sec. 115. he sheriff shall not be liable to the plaintifff on
account of the insufficiency of the bail, if it shall appear that
he acted with due care in accepting the same.

Sec. 116. Affidavits of the plaintifffs right to the debt or
damages which he claims, may be made by any person residing
in this or any other State, territory or country, and additional
affidavits may be made by other persons, stating the further

grounds necessary to obtain an order for arrest and bail, and
upon filing such affidavits, duly authenticated, an order for
the arrest and bail may be entered as in other cases.

Surrender of Principal by Special Bail.

Sec. 117. The bail may be exonerated‘ either by the death
of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a State prison, or b
his legal discharge from the obligation to render himsell
amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of
the county where he ‘was arrested inexecution thereof, at any
time before final judgment against the bail on his recognizance.‘

Sec. 118. The bail may at any time take a certified copy
of the order of arrest and recognizance, by virtue of which
he may take his principal and deliver him into the custody of
the proper officer. Such copy shall be given and certified by
the clerk.

Sec. 119. If the court to which the order of arrest is‘

returnable, is in session at the time of the surrender, the
same may be made in open court, and the court shall cause
the discharge of the bail from all further liability, to be entered of record.

See. 120. If the court is not in session, the surrender may
be made to the sheriff or keeper of the jail of the proper
county, who shall receive the prisoner and hold him in custody in like manner as if he had been committed by virtue of
the order of arrest on which he was held to bail.

Sec. 121. But the sheriff or jailer shall not be bound to
receive any person so surrendered unless the bail shall deliver
to him a copy of the order of arrest and recognizance, certilied by the officer -who issued the original order of arrest.'

Sec. 122. The sheriff or the keeper of the jail, shall

acknowledge the reception of the principal by an endorsement

on the certified copy of the order of arrest; and the surrender shall acquit the bail from all further liability as special
bail.

Sec. 123. Every defendant surrendered by his bail, may
be bailed as if arrested by the original order of arrest.

Sec. 124. When the surrender of the principal is made

‘after final judgment against him, the bail shall, within ten

days after, cause notice of the time and place thereof to be
given to the plaintifff or his attorney, if either reside in the
State, which notice shall be served by the sheriff, who shall
deliver a certified copy of the notice to the keeper of the
jail, on or before- the expiration of ten days from the time of
the surrender; but if neither the plaintifff nor his attorney
reside in the State, the notice shall be posted up ten days in
the clerk’s office of the county, and a copy of the notice,
certified by the clerk, shall be forthwith thereafter delivered
to the kee er of the jail.

Sec. 12 . When the surrender is made after jud ment,
the prisoner shall be detained in custody; but if the p aintiff
shall not proceed to charge him in execution within five days
after the notice, the defendant shall be discharged from custody without any order for that purpose. ,

Sec. 126. If any bail shall fail to give the required notice
to the plaintifff or his attorney, and the principal shall be discharged, no proceedin s being commenced to charge him in
execution, the bail sha 1 remain liable to his recognizance.

Size. 127. Whenever the right of action has accrued against
any special bail, the creditor may at any time within two
years after final judgment against the principal, and not
afterwards, maintain an action upon the recognizance in his
own name.

CHAPTER VII.

Claim and Delivery of Personal Property.

Sec. 128. When any personal goods are wrongfully taken
or unlawfully detained from the owner or person claiming the
possession thereof, or when taken on execution or attachment,
are claimed by any person other than the defendant, the
owner or claimant may bring an action for the possession
thereof.""

Sac. 131. The order shall be directed and delivered to
the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to the
action, and the court in which the action is brought, and
direct the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and
stating its value, as in the affidavit, and deliver it to the plaintifff, and direct him to make return of his doings thereon.

Sec. 132. The sheriff shall forthwith proceed to execute
the order by taking possession of the property described in
the affidavit, or so much as can be found; but before delivering the property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall take from
him, or some person on his behalf, a written undertaking,
payable to the defendant, with sufficient suret , to be approved
by the sheriff, to the effect that-the plaintifff, will prosecute
his action with effect and without delay, and that he will
return the property to the defendant, if return be adjudged
by the court, and that he will pay to the defendant all such
sums of money as may be recovered against him by the
defendant in the action for any cause whatever; which written undertaking shall be delivered to the sheriff within twenty-four hours after seizing the property, and in default thereof
t e property shall be returned to the defendant, but the action
shall not be dismissed or delayed thereby."‘

Sec. 133. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall demand its
delivery; if it shall not be delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the property
into his possession; and if necessary, he may call to his aid
the power of the county: if the sheriff cannot find the property or any part thereof, the action shall not abate, but be
prosecuted to final judgment.

the oliicer, that the property claimed has been disposed of or
concealed, so that the order cannot be executed, the court
may compel the attendance of the defendant, examine him
on oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a
willful obstruction or hindrance of the execution of the order,
and a disobedience of the orders of the court in this respect,
as in cases of a contempt.

Sec. 135. When the property is removed to another coun-‘
ty after the commencement of the action, an order may, at}
any time before judgment, be directed to such county for the‘
seizure and delivery of the property claimed, and several orders to different counties may issue at the same time, at the
option of the plaintifff, and the costs shall be taxed as the court
may direct; such order to another county shall be served, and
the property be delivered to the plaintifff and the order returnable in the same manner, and upon the same terms as above

provided.
ARTICLE VIII.

Injunctions and restraining orders.

Sec. 136. Restraining orders and injunctions may be.
granted by the supreme court in term time, when necessary and‘
proper for the due exercise of the jurisdiction and powers of
such court, or by any judge thereof in vacation; and by the
circuit court and court of common pleas, in their respective
counties, in term time, or by the judge thereof in vacation, according to the provisions of this chapter [article.]

Sec. 137. Where it appears by the complaint, that the]
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act the commission or continuance of
which during the litigation, would produce great injury to the
plaintifff; or, when, during the litigation, it appears that the
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering some ,act to be done, in violation of the
plaintiE"s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, or where such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings
upon any final order or judgment, an injunction may be granted to restrain such act or proceedi , until the further order
of the court, which may afterwardsngse modified, upon motion.
And where it appears in the complaint, at the commencement
of the action, or during the pendency thereof, by affidavit that
the defendant threatens, or is about to remove, or dispose of
his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary
injunction may be granted to restrain the removal or disposition of his property.‘

granted until the party asking it shall enter into a written
undertaking, with surety, to be approved by the court or
judge, to the adverse party affected thereby, for the payment
of all damages and costs which may accrue by reason of the
injunction or restraining order. "'

Sec. 143. When an injunction is granted upon the hearing, after a temporary restraining order, the plaintifff shall
not be required to enter into a second written undertaking,
unless the former shall be deemed insufficient; but the plaintiai and his surety shall remain liable upon the original undert in .

Sncg. 144. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of
injunction, but the clerk shall issue a copy of the order of
injunction, duly certified by him, which shall be forthwith
served by delivering the same to the adverse party.

Sec. 145. In applications to stay proceedings after judgment, the plaintifff shall indorse upon his complaint a release
of errors in the judgment, whenever required to do so by
the judge or court. 1

Sec. 146. An order of injunction shall bind every person
and officer restrained from the time he is informed thereof.

Sec. 147. When notice of the application for an injunction has been given to the adverse party, it shall not be
necessary to serve the order upon him, but he shall be bound
by the injunction as soon as the written undertaking required
of the plaintifff is executed and delivered to the proper officer.

Sec. 148. -Money collected upon a judgment afterwards
enjoined, remaining in the hands of the collecting officer,
shall be paid to the clerk of the court granting the injunction, subject to the order of the court.

Sec. 149. Whenever it shall appear to any court granting

an order of injunction, or judge thereof in vacation, by‘
i

affidavit, that any person has w fully disobeyed the order,
after notice thereof, such court or judge shall award an
attachment for contempt against the party charged, or a
rule to show cause why it should not issue. The attachment

or rule shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and directed
to the sheriff, and shall be served by him.
Sac. 150. The attachment for contempt shall be immediately served by arresting the party charged and bringing

him into court, if in session, to be dealt with as in other

cases of contempt; and the court shall also take all necessary ‘

measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff against damages in the premises. t

Sec. 151. If the court is not in session, the officer making
the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a written
undertaking, with surety to be approved by the officer, personally to appear in open court, on the first day of the next
term thereof, to answer such contempt, and that he will pay
to the plaintifff all his damages and costs occasioned by the
breach of the order, and in default thereof he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until he shall enter into such
written undertaking with surety, or be otherwise legally
discharged.

Sec. 152. Motions to dissolve or modify injunctions may
be made in open court, at any time after the adverse party
has had reasonable notice.

SEC. 153. When an injunction to stay proceedings after
jud ment for debt or damages shall _be dissolved, the court
shal award such damages, not exceeding ten per cent. on
the judgment, as the court may deem right against the party
in whose favor the injunction issued.

.Snc.-154. If an injunction to stay proceedin s after verdict or judgment in an action for the recovery oig real estate,
or the possession thereof, be dissolved, the damages assessed
against the party obtaining the injunction shall include the
reasonable rents and profits of the_ land recovered, and all
waste committed after granting the injunction.

Sec. 155. Upon an order being made dissolving or modifying an order of injunction, the plaintifff may move the court
to reinstate the order, and the court may, in its discretion,
allow the motion, and appoint a time for hearing the same
before the court, or a time and place forhearing before some
judge thereof; and upon the hearing, the parties may produce
such additional affidavits or depositions as the court shall direct, and the order of injunction shall be dissolved, modified
or reinstated, as the court or judge may deem right. Until
the hearing of the motion to reinstate the order of injunction,
the order to dissolve or modify it shall be suspended.

ARTICLE IX.
Attachment.

Sac. 156. The plaintifff, at the commencement of an action

or at any time afterwards, may have an attachment against
the pro erty of the defendant, in the cases and in the manner
herein ter stated:"'

Where the action is for the recovery of money,

lst. [Where] the defendant, or one of several defendants,
is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this State;

2d. Where the defendant or one of several defendants, is
secretly leaving, or has left the State with intent to defraud
his creditors; or

3d. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him; or

4th. Is removing or about to remove his property subject
to execution, or a material part thereof, out of this State, not
leaving enough therein to satisfy the plaintifff ’s claim; or

5th. Has sold, conveyed or otherwise disposed of his property subject to execution, or suffered or permitted it to be sold
with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his
creditors; or

6th. Is about to sell, convey or otherwise dispose of his
property, subject to execution, with such intent.

Sec. 157. N o attachment, except for the causes men-i
tioned in the fourth, fifth and sixth clauses of the prece-.
dingsection, shall issue against any debtor while his wife and
family remain settled within the county where he usually
resided prior to his absence, if he shall not continue
absent from the State more than one year after he shall have
absented himself, unless an attempt be made to conceal his
absence.

Sec. 158. If the wife or family of the debtor shall refuse:
or be unable to give an account of the cause of his absence,]

cession; but the costs only of such as have been executed in
whole or in part, shall be recovered against the defendant,
unless otherwise directed by the court. The plaintifff shall
not have judgment in any such action except in some one of
the followin cases, viz:

First- hen the defendant shall have been personally

served with process; or

Second. When property of the defendant shall have been

attached in the county where the action is brought; or

Third. When a gamishee shall have been summoned in
the county where the action is brought, who shall be found to
be indebted to the defendant, or to have property or assets
in his hands subject to the attachment.

Sec. 163. An order of attachment may be issued and executed on Sunday, if the plaintifff will show in his affidavit that
the defendant is about to abscond on that day, to the injury
of the plaintifff. ,

Sac. 164. The sheriff shall proceed, with the assistance of
a disinterested and credible householder of the county, to
attach the lands and tenements, oods and chattels of the
defendant subject ‘to execution, an shall with the assistance
of the householder, make an inventory and appraisment
thereof, and return the same with the order."‘

Sec. 165. An order of attachment binds the defendant's
property in the county subject to execution, and becomes a
lien thereon from the time of its delivery to the sheriff, in the
same manner as an execution.

Sac. 166. The defendant's personal property shall be first
taken under an attachment; if enough thereof is not found
to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, and costs of the action, then
his real estate. If, after an order of attachment is placed
in the hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant "is
removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach
the same in any county within three days after the removal.

Sac. 167. The estate, property and interest, descended to
non-resident heirs or devisees, or vested in the non-resident
executors or administrators of decedents, shall be liable for
an attachment for debt, or other demands against the decedent's estate.
Size. 168. The defendant, or other person having possessiutl of 1.r1‘ope1'ty :.1tt:1c.l1ed, n'1.‘L_\_’ liam the saime, 01' any p:i11't
tl1e1'v;-of, tlelin-:1'erl to him, by C-?(E'.[_‘.l_lllIl_Lf and l_lL"ll\-'l31'lIlf_" tn the
slieriff a written L11'1(le1't.:1l<i11g, with _~‘Lii'L-1.}-' in l)LL {'t]t}il'I_.|\-'t:tl by
the .~_:l1e1'ifl', 1'>a_3-'al.Jle to the }.1l:tll1'[lll‘, to the elli-mt tliat r<m_-.l1
p1'u_>pe1'ty shall he pmpe1'l_\_-' kept and t:1ke1'1 c:11‘e': of, anal shall
he tlelive.re(l to the slie-rill" (H1 <lem::tml, or Sn mum-h t_ht-.1'cut' as
inay he requi1'etl to be 5~.'[_)l{l on exert‘-.11t.it_n1 to r~t:1ti.~:i'_\-' ally _iI'1«l_«,.;ITl(-_*.I1t whicll may he 1'e(:.m'L+1_'ml EI_j_1_":tlll>3i him in the tt(‘llUll. or
ill-‘ll he will p:'1}-' the appi':1i<~tr;~i_l \'£tll.1t'3 of the lrlwnpt-1't}', nut
t':I-£t’?ECflll'1_§_{ t.he anmtiiit of the j11rl3_§:m_~11t :mrl (_'.u.~_~'i.~4.

S1~:e:. 169. WllEIlC\-'£!I‘ {In}-']ie1':w1t,(_rtl'1e1‘ than tlit-rlL'<|'t'111l-'

zmt, sliall claim any 1)1'i_rl)t_'l'l_\" :ttt:_u:l1er_l, the right ml‘ |':rupc:rt__v
rna}-' he tried as in c.:1.~_=c.-: of p1*upe1’t_y i.:l.ht'll in ext;-wiitimi, {Hill
the ClE1ll'l'l{111i, l1at'in;__§ _m‘_)tiz:e of the :1t_t;"u_-lmieiit, .“~'llItll he lu.-uml
to p1‘o;'-sccutr: hi:~.: {_‘.l:1iII1 as 311 well c-_.:i_-'e.-', nr lie l::'u'1'u«_l of his
rigl1t.‘5‘-"

_SI~IL‘.. 170. The (let'e11<'l:11"1t, m‘ clrtimzmt uf:1n_v att:utlm'l
property, may be required by the court to attend before it
and give information, on oath,-respecting the property.

Sec. 171. Goods attached in the hands of a consignee
shall be subject to a lien -for any debt due him from the
consignor.

Sac. 172. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf,i
at any time before judgment, shall execute a written under-i

taking to the plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to be approved
by the court, clerk, or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant
will appear to the action, and will perform the judgment of
the court, the attachment shall be discharged and restitution
made of any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof.

Sec. 173. When personal property attached is of a per-1
ishable nature‘, or its keeping expensive, the court may direct}

the sheriff to sell it at public auction upon reasonable notice.
If the property is liable to immediate damage, the sheriff, in
vacation, may sell it, by giving ten days’ notice, without an
order of court, and the proceeds of all sales shall be deposited
with the clerk.

Sec. 174. The sheriff shall be allowed by the court the:

necessary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be
paid by the plaintifffand taxed in the costs.

Sac. 1'75. If, at the time an order of attachment issues, or:
at any time before or afterwards, the plaintifff, or other person‘

in his behalf, shall file with the clerk an affidavit that he has
good reason to believe that any person (naming him) has
property of the defendant of any description in his possession, or under his control, which the sheriff cannot attach by
virtue of such order; or that such personis indebted to the
defendant, or has the control or agency of any property,
monies, credits or effects; or that the defendant has any

be returned by the sheriff with the summons. If such officer,
agent, or person refuses to do so, he may be required by the
court to attend before it, and be examined on oath concerning the same, and obedience to the orders may be enforced
by attachment. - 1
S20. 178. VVhenever any garnishee, being duly summoned, '
fails to appear and make discovery as required by law, or
fails to answer or demur -to the matters set forth against him
in the affidavit, or additional complaint or interrogatories,
such matters may be taken for confessed, or judgment entered
by default, as the case may require; or he may be examined
under oath touching all the matters charged in the affidavit,
or additional complaint; and all such proceedings, pleadings
and process, shall be had, according to the practice in other
cases, as shall be necessary to determine the rights of the
parties, and render a final judgment. , «
Sec. 179. If any plaintifff, or other person in his behalf,‘
shall file with the clerk an affidavit that he fears that the garnishee will abscond before judgment can be had, with intent
to defraud the plaintifff, and that he verily believes that the
garnishee has monies, things in action, goods, chattels or
‘effects of said defendant in his possession, or is indebted to
said defendant, the clerk shall issue an order of arrest against
the garnishee, and hold him to bail thereon as in a civil action.:
See. 180. Final judgment shall not be rendered against a
garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachment
is determined; and if the plaintifff fails to recover judgment
either against the defendant or the garnishee, the garnishee
shall be discharged and recover his costs. p :
Sec. 181. The return of “no property found” upon the
order of attachment, shall not affect the proceedings against
the garnishee. ‘

Sec. 182. If the plaintifff recover judgment against the1

’ defendant, and the garnishee deliver up to the sheriff, before

judgment a ainst him, all the defendant’s goods and chattels,
or other e ects in his possession, subject to execution, or an
inventory thereof, and pay to the sheriff or into court all
monies due from him, or belonging to thedefendant, the
costs in the proceedin against the garnishee shall be paid by
the defendant; but if the garnishee shall not ap ear, or if
appearing, shall refuse truly to confess the matter al eged, and
on the trial the plaintifff shall recover judgment against him,or if
he admit that he has monies, credits or effects belonging to
the defendant in his hands, and shall refuse to pay or deliver
the same as above provided, he shall pay costs.

Sac. 183. A garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled
in any case to pay or perform any contract in any other
manner, or at any other time, than he would be bound to do
for the defendant in attachment.

Snc. 184. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him to the sheriff, or into court, and shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for monies so paid,
not exceeding the plaintifff's claim.

S120. 185. ,A garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee, at any time after being served with the
summons five days, may be examined in open court on oath,
and if it be discovered on such examination that at the time
or after the serviceof the summons upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of any property of the defendant, or
was indebted to him, the court may order the delivery of such
property, and the payment of any such indebtedness into court
or the execution of a written undertaking by the garnishee,
with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court, payable
to the plaintifff, to the effect that the indebtedness shall be paid
or the property forthcoming as the court shall direct.

Sec. 186. Any creditor of the defendant, upon filing his
aiiidavit and written undertaking, as hereinbefore required of
the attaching creditor, may, at any time before the final adjustment of the suit, become a party to the action, file his
complaint, and prove his claim or demand against the defendant, and may have any person summoned as garnishee or held
to bail, who has not before been summoned or held to bail, and
propound interrogatories to the garnishee and enforce answers
thereto, in like manner as the creditor who is plaintifff. "“

Sec. 187. A dismissal of his action or proceedings in attachment by the first attaching creditor, shall not operate as
a dismissal of the action or proceedings of any subsequent
attachin creditor.

Sec. 88. Any defendant against whom an order of attachment has been issued may, after appearing to the action, move
to have the attachment discharged and restitution awarded of
any property taken under it; but an appearance to the action shall not operate to discharge the attachment, unless a
written undertaking be filed as required in section 172.1‘ If
the defendant appear and judgment be rendered in favor of
the plaintifff, and any part thereof remain unsatisfied, after
exhausting the property attached, such judgment shall be
deemed a judgment against the defendant personally, and

Sec. 193. Every defendant shall be entitled to an action
on the written undertaking of the plaintifff or creditor, b
whose proceedings in attachment he shall have been aggrieve ,
if it shall appear that the proceedings were wrongful and
oppressive, and he shall recover damages at the discretion of
the jury.‘ F

Sec. 194. In all actions in the name of the State of Indiana, or of any person, agent, or oiilcer, for the use of the
State, if process be returned that any defendant is not found,

an order of attachment may be issued and proceedings had in

like manner, as in other cases, without tiling any a
written undertaking.’

Sec. 195. When an order of attachment is fully executed
or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings thereon, to the court.

Sec. 196. Attachments against the ods and chattels,
rights, credits, monies and effects of efendants, may be
issued in cases contemplated in the foregoing provisions upon
any claim within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace,
upon filing with the justice an aliidavitpf as prescribed in this
chapter [article.] And the justice shall perform the duties required oi the [court and clerk thereof; and the constable shall
perform the duties required of the] sheriff in the above provisions. The constable shall return the order of attachment
within ten days, with his doings thereon; and in case where a
summons has not been served and property has been attached,
the justice shall give three weeks’ notice of the attachment,
in some public newspaper, published in the county, if any is
published therein; if not, then by posting up written notice
thereof in three of the most public places in the township,
and fix the da of trial at the expiration of such notice.

Sec. 197. lf the defendant does not appear and give bond
for the release of the property attached, before the day of
trial, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine the
cause, and in case judgment is given against the defendant,
he shall order the property to be sold to satisfy the judgment,
accordin to the provisions of this chapter [article.]

Sec. 1 . Garnishees may be summoned, and the same
proceedings had before the justice as provided in the higher
courts.

davit or .

ARTICLE X.
Receivers and Deposits in Courts.

Sec. 199. A receiver may be appointed by the court in?
the following cases: . 1‘

First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent‘
purchase of property, or by a creditor, to subject any property or fund to his claim.

Second. In actions between partners or other persons
jointly interested in any property or fund.

Third. In all actions when it is shown thatthe property,
fund or rent and profits in controversy is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured.

Fourth. In actions by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of
a mortgage, and the sale of the mortgaged property, when it
appears that such property is in danger of being lost, removed
or materially injured; or, when such property is insufficient
to discharge the mortgage debt, to secure the application of
the rents and profits accruing before a sale can be had.

Fifth. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights. Sixth. And in such other cases as may be provided by
law; or when, in the discretion of the court, it may be
necessary to secure ample justice to the parties.

Sec. 200. No party or attorney, or other person interested
in an action, shal be appointed receiver therein. .

Sec. 201. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or
more sureties, approved by the court, execute a written
undertaking payable to such person as the court shall direct,
to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of
receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court
therein. .

Sec. 202. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession or under his
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the liti ation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or whic belongs or is due to another
party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court
or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject
to the further direction of the court.

Sec. 203. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money, or
other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides
punishing the disobedience, as for contempt, may make an
order requiring the sheriff to take the money or.thmg, and

deposit or deliver it in conformity with the directions of the
courL

Sec. 204. Money deposited or paid into court in an
actibn, shall not be loaned'out, unless with the consent of
all the parties having an interest in, or making claim to the
same.

Size. 205. The receiver shall have power, under the control of the court, to bring and defend actions, to take and
keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect
debts, and generally to do such acts respecting the property
as the court may authorize. .

Sac. 206. When the answer of the defendant admits part
of the plaintifffs claim to be just, the court, on motion, may
order the defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may
enforce the order by execution or attachment.

ARTICLE XI.
Change of Venue.

Sec. 207. The court in term, or the judge in vacation,
may change the venue of any civil action upon the application of either party, made upon affidavit, showing one or
more of the following causes:

First. That the judge has been engaged as counsel in the
cause, prior to his election or appointment as judge, or is
otherwise interested in the cause; or,

Second. That the judge is of kin to either party; or,

Third. That the opposite party has an undue influence
over the citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches to
the applicant, or to his cause of action or defense, on account
of local prejudices; or, _

Fourth. Where the county is a party to the suit; or,

Fifth. That the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change.

Sec. 208. When a change of venue is directed, the clerk

of the court in which the suit is pending, shall forthwith

transmit the papers, and a transcript of the proceedings, to
the clerk of the court to which the venue is changed,—the
party applying for the change first paying the costs thereof.
And the clerk of the proper court shall receive the papers
and transcript, giving a receipt therefore, and docket the
action in its order among the other causes of the court; and
the action shall stand for trial at the lirst term, and shall be

tried in the same manner as if the cause had originated in
that court.‘ v

Sec. 209. No change of venue shall be granted in vacation,
unless the opposite party has had ten days’ notice.

ARTICLE XII.
Limitation of Civil _Actions.

See. 210. The following actions shall be commenced within:
six years after the cause of action has accrued, and not
afterwards:

First. - On accounts and contracts not in writing.

Second. For use, rents, andproiits of real property.

Third. For injuries to property, damages for any detention thereof, and for recovering the possession of personal
property.

Fourth. For relief against frauds.

Sec. 211. The following actions shall be commenced within
the periods herein prescribed after the cause of action has
accrued, and not afterwards:

First. For injuries to person or character, and for a‘

forfeiture or penalty given by statute-—within two years.

Second. All actions against a sheriff or other public officer,
or against such officer and his sureties on a public bond,
growing out of a liability incurred by doing an act in an
ofiicial capacity, or by the omission of an ofiicial duty,—within
three years; but an action may be brought against the officer
or his legal representatives, for money collected in an official
capacity and not paid over, at any time within six years.

Third. For the recovery of real property sold on execution, brought by the execution-debtor, his heirs, or any person
claiming under him, by title acquired after the date of the
judgment,—within ten years after the sale.

Fourth. For the recovery of real property sold by executors, administrators, guardians or commissioners of a court,
upon a judgment specially directing the sale of property
sought to be recovered, brought by a party to the judgment, his
heirs, or any person claiming a title under a party, acquired

Sec. 214. A party to any action may plead or reply aset- :
06' or payment to the amount of any cause of action or
defense, notwithstanding such set-off or payment is barred by
the statute.‘ A

Sec. 215. Any person being under legal disabilities when‘
the cause of action accrues, may bring his action within two‘
years after the disability is removed.1‘

Sec. 216. The time during which the defendant is a non-,
resident of the State, or absent on public business shall not
be computed in any of the periods of limitation. But when
a cause has been fully barred by the laws of the place where
the defendant resided, such bar shall be the same defense here
as though it had arisen within this State.

Sac. 217. If any person entitled to bring, or liable to any
action, shall die before the expiration of the time limited for
the action, the cause of action shall survive to or against his
representatives, and may be brought at any time, after the expiration of the time limited within eighteen months after the
death of such person.

Sr.-c. 218. If after the commencement of an action, the
plaintifff fail therein, from‘ any cause except negligence in the
prosecution, or the action abate or be defeated by the death
of a party, or judgment be arrested or reversed on appeal, a
new action may be brought within five years after such determination, and be deemed a continuation of the first, for the
purposes herein contemplated.

Sec. 219. If any person liable to an action shall conceal
the fact from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto, the

action may be commenced at any time within the period of
limitation, after the discovery of the cause of action."“

Sec. 220. N o acknowledgment or promise shall be evidence
of a new or continuing contract whereby to take the case out
of the operations of the provisions of ‘this chapter article],
unless the same. be contained in some _writing, sign by the
party to be charged thereby.1'

Sec. 221. The acknowledgment or promise of one joint
contractor, or executor, or administrator, shall not render
any other joint contractor, executor, or administrator, liable
under the provisions of this chapter [article.]

Sec. 222. In actions against two or more defendants,
where the plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this chapter
[article] as to one or more of the defendants, and is entitled
to recover against others for any cause, judgment shall be
rendered against those liable, and for those not liable.

Size. 223. Nothing contained in the preceding sections

shall take away or lessen the effect of any payment made by
any person; but no indorsement, or memorandum of any
pazment made upon any instrument of writing, by or on
be alf of the party to whom the payment. shal purport to
be made, shall be deemed sufficient to exempt the case from the
provisions of this chapter [article.] V _

Sec. 224. Limitation of actions shall bar the State of
Indiana and the United States as other persons.

L Sac. 225. Every judgment and decree of any court of
record of the United States, or of this or any other State,

shall be deemed satisfied after the expiration of twenty years. ‘

Snc. 226. In cases where part only of the persons entitled ‘
to bring an action, are barred by the statute of limitations,i
all may be joined as plaintifffs; and when it shall appear to
the satisfaction of the court, by admission or otherwise, that
part of the plaintifffs are barred by the statute, the court,
upon motion,'shall order the names of such plaintifffs to be
struck from the record, and the action may be prosecuted by
those not barred.

Sec. 227. Neither a joint debtor or his representatives, in‘
whose favor the statute of limitations has operated, shall be‘
liable to a joint debtor, or surety, or their representatives
upon payment by such joint debtor or surety, or their representatives, of the debt or any part of it.

Sec. 228. The statute of limitations shall in no case bar
the right of the husband to join with, and sue for the use of
the wife, at any time durin coverture, in any action which
would survive to her after t e removal of her disability.

ARTICLE XIII.

Wit ncsses.

Sec. 229. The clerk of the proper court shall issue a
summons for witnesses, upon the application of any party _to
the action. The summons may be served by the party or
any other person, or b -the sheriff. The party or any other
person than the sheri , shall not be entitled to fees for the
service. When a summons is served by the sheriff, his return
is pnoof of the service; when served‘ by any other person,
the service must be shown by affidavit.

Sec. 230. The summons shall be issued and attested by
the clerk without seal, and one summons shall include all the witnesses required at the same time, residing in the same county.

Sec. 231. If any party summon more than three witnesses to prove the same fact, he shall pay the costs occasioned by the additional number of witnesses."

Sec. 232. Witnesses residing in the county where the
court is held shall be compelled to attend in obedience to the
summons without payment or tender of fees being first made.

Sac. 2&3. A witness shall not be obliged to attend before
a court or jud e out of the county where he resides, unless
his legal fees for traveling to and from the court, and one

day’s attendance are paid or tendered before or at the time
of the service of the summons.

Sac. 234. The attendance of all witnesses when duly summoned, and to whom fees have been paid or tendered, in cases
required by law, may be enforced by attachment.

Sec. 235. At the commencement of each 'day after the
first day, a witness attending a trial out ot the county in
which he resides shall be entitled to demand and receive the
legal fees for that day in advance. If not thus paid, he is
not compelled to attend or remain as a witness.

SEC. 236. Before testifying, every witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. The mode of administering an oath shall be such as
may be most consistent with, and binding upon the conscience
of the person to whom the oath may be administered. The
forms heretofore observed shall be hereafter observed.

Sec. 237. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret truly
Whenever necessary.

See. 238. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded
from giving evidence either in person or by deposition in any
judicial proceeding, by reason of incapacity from crime or
interest. But this section shall not render competent a party
to an action, or the person for whose use it is brought, or
the husband or wife of any such party."‘

Sec. 249. In all actions-the court may order the taking of
depositions, whenever" deemed necessary to determine the
rights of the parties, or to expedite the trial of causes, and
may, if necessary for that purpose, order a continuance until
the next term.

Sec. 250. In all actions depositions may be taken by either
party in vacation, immediately after the service of the summons, without an order of court, and, in term time, by the
agreement of the parties. They may be used on the trial of
all issues in any action in the following cases:

First. Where the witness does not reside in the county,
or in a county adjoining the one in which the trial is to be
held, or is absent from the State.“

Second. When the deponent is so aged, infirm or sick as
not to be able to attend the court, or other place of trial, or
is dead.1'

a Third. When the depositions have been taken by the
agreement of parties, or by the order of the court trying the
cause.

Fourth. When the deponent is a State or county officer,
or a judge, or practicing physician, or attorney at law, and
the trial is to be had in any county in which the deponent
does not reside.

In either of the foregoing cases, the attendance of the witness cannot be enforced.

SEC. 251. A witness is not obliged to attend for examination upon a deposition in any other county than that of his
residence, but may consent to do so.

Sac. 252. No deposition shall be read in evidence on the
trial of a cause, if at that time the witness himself is produced
in court, unless the deposition has been taken by the agreement of the parties, or by the order of the court.

Sec. 253. The officer taking the deposition, shall have
power to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses.

Sec. 254. The provisions of the last section shall extend
to all officers and commissioners authorized to take depositions
in this State, to be read in the courts of other States or
countries. V

SEC. 255. The deponent shall be first sworn by the officer

to testify to the truth, the whole truth, and nothin but the
truth, relating to the cause or matter for which the geposi-tion
is to be taken; and he shall then be examined by the party
producing him, and then by the adverse party, and by the
officer or parties afterwards, if they see cause. 2

SEC. 256. The deposition shall be written down by the offi-‘
cer, or by the deponent, or by some disinterested person, in the‘
presence, and under the direction of the officer, and after the
same has been carefully read to or by the deponent, it shall
be subscribed by him. ,

Sec. 257. The officer shall annex a certificate to the depo-1
sition, stating the following facts: ’

First. That the deponent was sworn according to law;

Second. By whom the deposition was written; and if
written by the deponent, or some disinterested person, that it
was written in the presence, and under the direction of the
officer;

Third. Whether or not the adverse party attended;

Fourth. The time and place of taking the deposition, and
the hours between which the same was taken; and the officer
shall sign and attest the certificate, and seal the same, if he
have a seal of office.‘

Size. 258. The officer taking the deposition shall seal up:
the same in a sufficient paper envelope, and direct the same’
to the clerk of the court in which the action is pending,
indorsing on the envelope the names of the parties and of the
witnesses whose depositions are enclosed.

Size. 259. When a deposition is offered to be read in evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
cause for taking and reading it still exists.

Sec. 260. When a deposition is to be taken within the
State, no commission shall be necessary for taking the depo-'
sition. When taken out of the State, the clerk shall, upon
the request of the party taking the deposition, issue a commission to the officer or commissioner designated to take the
deposition. N 0 order of court or affidavit shall be necessar
to authorize the issuing of the commission. t

See. 261. When the commission contains the name of the
officer before whom the deposition is to be taken, his attestation, officially certifying the same shall be sufficient; but if

the commission do not specify the name of the officer, and v

he have no ‘official seal, his certificate shall be authenticated
by the certificate and seal of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court of record of the county in which the officer exercises
the duties of his office. _ Sec. 262. When depositions are to be taken in a foreign
country, they shall be taken pursuant to an order of the court
under a commission; with such reasonable notice of the time
and place of taking the same as the court shall require; and
they shall be certified and returned by the commissioner in
such manneras the court shall direct. 7

Sec. 263. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence must be filed in court at least one day before the time
at which the cause in which the deposition is to be used stands
on the docket for trial; or if filed afterwards, and claimed to
be used on the trial, the adverse party shall be entitled to a
continuance at the costs of the party filing the deposition,
upon showing good cause by affidavit.

Sec. 264. , Depositions, after being filed may be published
by the clerk, at the request of either party, after giving the
other, his agent or attorney, reasonable notice of the time
of publication, or they may be published by the order of court
on the motion of either party.*

Sec. 265. Objections to the competency of a deponent,
or to the propriety of any questions proposed to him or
answers given by him, may be made at the time of takin his
deposition, or in court, whether made at the taking 0 the
deposition or not.

SE3. 266. All objections to the validity of any deposition,
or its admissibility in evidence, shall be made before entering on the trial, not afterwards. But any deposition after the
commencement of the trial, may be suppressed, if any matter which is not disclosed in the deposition appears, which is
sufficient to authorize such suppression. ‘f

Sec. 267. ' When an action has been dismissed, and another action has been commenced for the same cause, the depositions taken. in the first action may be used in the second, or
in any other action betwen the parties or their representatives for the same cause; but it must appear that the depositions have been duly filed in the court where the previous
cause was pending, and have remained on file from the time
theaction was dismissed until the time at which it was proposed to use them.

Sec. 268. Whenever any person shall make affidavit.
before any circuit court, or court of common pleas, or judgei
thereof, or clerk of the court, that such person expects to be‘
made a party in any action thereafter to be commenced, and
that the testimony of a witness, whether residing within or out
of the State, to be named in the affidavit, is material and necessary to the prosecution or defense thereof, the court or officer before whom the affidavit is made, shall order reasonable
notice to be given to the party expected to be adverse to the
applicant or to his attorney, that on the day and at the place
in such notice to be expressed, the witness will be examined
conditionally before such officeras shall be specified in the order.

Sec. 269. Upon proof that the notice has been given,3
either by personal service, or advertisement, at least three
weeks successively in some public newspaper published in the
proper county, or one most convenient thereto, (when the
person to be notified is not an inhabitant of the State.) being
made to the officer authorized to take the testimony, he shal
proceed to take and certify,seal up and return the depositions
according to the rules provided for other depositions in this act.*

Sec. 270. Every affidavit and order, and every deposition
so taken and certified, shall, within thirty days after the
deposition is taken, be filed in the office of the clerk of the
circuit court, or court of common pleas of the county where
the subject-matter of such expected suit may be situated.
The clerk shall file said deposition, and it shall remain sealed
until published by order of the court after commencement of
such expected action.

Sac. 27]. Upon proof of the death, insanity or absence
from the State of such witness, or inability by reason of age
or infirmity to attend, the deposition or a certified copy
thereof by the clerk of the court where the same is filed,
shall be admitted as evidence in any court in this State, in
any cause between the parties named in theiifiidavit, or in any
cause between persons claiming under either of said parties,
and shall have like effect as if the witness had been personally
present, and given oral testimony therein, saving the right of
exception in all cases on account of the incompetency of the
Witness, or of any part of the testimony contained in the

deposition.

5Sec. 272., An unimportant deviation from any direction
relative to taking depositions, shall not cause any deposition
to be excluded where no substantial prejudice would be done

to the opposite party, ‘
Private Writings.

Sec. 273. There shall be no difference in evidence between

:sealed and unsealed writings; and every writing not sealed,

shall have the same force and effect thatit would have if sealed.
A writing under seal, except conveyances of real estate, or
any interest therein, may thereforee be changed, or altogether
discharged bya writing not under seal. An agreement in
writing, without a seal, for the compromise or settlement of
a debt, is as obligatory as if a seal were affixed.

Snc. 274. The execution of an instrument is the subscribing and delivering it, with or without affixing a seal.

Sec. 275. Recitals in any written instrument shall have
no greater effect that they have heretofore had in writings

not under seal. ,
Sec. of 2'76. The last three sections do not repeal or affect

any statute of this State expressly requiring a seal to a deed
or other instrument. '

Of Documentary and other Written Evidence.

Snc. 2'77. The printed statute books of this State, and of

the late territory north-west of the river Ohio, and the territories of Indiana and Illinois, purporting to be printed under
the authority of said State or territories, shall be evidence in
all courts and places of the acts therein contained. ,

Sec. 278. The printed statute books of the several States

and territories of the United States, purporting to be printed

under the authority of those States and territories; and any
copy of any statute, or part thereof, contained therein, having attached thereto the certificate of the Secretary of State,
under the seal of the State, certifying the copy to be complete
and correct; that the statute book, from which the copy is
taken, is deposited in the office of the Secretary, or in the
State Library; and is by him believed to have been received
under the authority of the State or territory purporting to
have enacted the same; shall be presumptive evidence in all
courts of the legislative acts, public or private, of those States
or territories respectively.

Sec. 279. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of
any justice or justices of the peace of any State or territory
of the United States, certifieclwby the justice or justices under
his or their hands and seals, before whom the proceedings
were had or judgments rendered, or their successors in oilice

or other justices having legal custody thereof, that the same
are true and complete copies of the proceedings or judgments,
with the certificate of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court of record of the county or district where said justice
or justices shall hold his or their office or offices, certifying
under the seal of said court that the justice or justices was
or were at the time when the proceedings were had or judgment rendered, and when the copy was taken, duly commissioned and qualified to act as such, shall be admissible as
evidence in any of the courts in this State.""

Sec; 280. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of
any justice of the peace of this State, certified under his hand
and seal, or under the hand and seal of the justice who may
have the legal custody thereof, as true and complete copies
of such proceedings or judgments, shall be received as evidence in the several courts in this State.

Sec. 231. Certificates or instruments, either printed or
written, purportin to be the official act of a notary public
of this State, or oigany other State or territory of the United
States, and purporting to be under the seal and signature
of such notary public, shall be received as presumptive evidence of the official character of such instrument and of the
facts therein set forth.

Sec. 282. The certificate of the Secretary of State, under
the seal of State, stating the time when any act or acts of
the General Assembly were deposited in his office, or deposited in the oiiice of the clerk of any circuit court, or court of
common pleas, in this State, as shall appear from the certifiSnc. 284. The acts and proceedings of corporations may
be proved by a sworn copy of the record of such acts and
proceedings; the oath shall be made by the person having the
legal custody of such records and shall state that such transcript is a true and full copy of the original, and that such
original has remained unaltered from its date, to the best of
deponent’s knowledge and belief. Such sworn copies shall
be received as evidence in all cases in which the original
would be evidence.

See. 285. Every act of the legislature of any one of the
States or territories of the United States, certified by the
Secretary, and having the seal of the State or territory affixed
thereto, shall be deemed authentic, and receive full faith and
credit when offered in evidence in any court within this State.°"

Sec. 286. The records and judicial proceedings of the
several courts of record, of or within the United States or
the territories thereof, shall be admitted in the courts
within this State as evidence, by attestation or certificate of
the clerk or prothonotary, and the seal of the court annexed,
together with the seal of the chief justice or one or more of
the_judges, or the presiding magistrate of any such court,
that the person who signed the attestation or certificate was,
at the time of subscribing it, the clerk or prothonotary of the
court, and that the attestation is in due form of law; and the
records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid,

Sec. 288. The original affidavit and copy of the notice,
filed pursuant to the provisions of the last section, and copies
thereof, duly certified by the clerk, shall be presumptive evidence in all cases and before every court, of the facts con_ tained in the affidavit.

Sec. 289. When any affidavit is taken in another State
and certified by the officer or justice of the peace taking the
same, under his hand and seal of office, if he have any such
seal, and ‘attested by the clerk of the circuit or district court,
or court of common pleas of the county where such officer
exercises the duties of his office, under the hand of the clerk»

and the seal of his court, the clerk also certifying that the

officer or justice of the peace, is, by the laws of said State,
duly empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, and
take affidavits, every such affidavit shall be deemed sufficiently
authenticated, and may be received and used in any of the
courts of this State.‘

- Sec‘. 290. The unwritten or common law of any other of the
United States, or of the territories thereof, may be proved as
facts by parol evidence, and the books of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts may also be admitted in evidence of
such' law. T '

Sec. 291. The existence and tenor or effect of the laws of

any foreign country, may be proved as facts by parol evi-'

dence; but if ‘it shall appear that the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the court may, in their
discretion, reject any evidence of such law which is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

‘Sec. 292. The proof of the service of any process issued
by the court, or of any notice required to be served upon‘

any party, shall be as follows: .
First. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,
Second. By any'other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

Third. In case of publication, a printed copy, with the‘

affidavit of the printer, his foreman, or clerk, or of any competent witness. .
Fourth. The written admission of the defendant. The
affidavit or admission must state the time and place of service.
See. 293. Theiclerk shall indorse upon every paper filed

in his office or in open court, and upon every process returned

to him or to thecourt, except summonses, the date of the filing
and return; and the indorsement shall be presumptive evidence of the time of the filing and return.

ARTICLE xiv...
Examination qf Parties.

Sac. 294. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid

' of the prosecution or defense of arm ther action, shall be allowed,

except in the manner prescribed by this chapter [article.]
Sec. 295. A party to an action may be examinedas a

witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of

several adverse parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of ,

-examination as any other witness, to testify, either at the
trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.

Sec. 296.. The examination, instead of being bad at the
trial, may be had at any time before the trial, at the option of
the party claiming it, efore any oiiicer authorized to take
depositions, on a previous notice to the party to be examined,
and any other adverse party, of at least five days, unless for
good cause shown, the court order otherwise- But the party
to be examined before trial, shall not be compelled to attend
in an other county than that of his.residence, or where he
may e served with a summons. ‘ ‘

See. 297. The attendance of the party to be examined, may

"be enforced, and the examination shall be taken and filed as a

deposition in the cause, and may be read by the party taking
it, at his 0 tion; but if not read, the party causing the examination sha 1 pay the costs thereof.

Sec. 298. The evidence of the party, thus taken, may be
rebutted by adverse testimony. ' ‘

Sec. .299. Any partyrefusing to attend and testify as above
provided, may be punished as for a contempt, and his complaint, answer, or reply, may be stricken out. _

Sec. 300. A party examined by an adverse party may
testify in his own behalf in respect to any matter pertinent to
the issue; but if he testify to any new matter not responsive to
the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, such adverse
party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in
respect to the new matter, and shall be so received.

Sec. 301. A person for whose immediate benefit the action
is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action,
may be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as if he were named
as a party.

Sec. 302. A party may be examined on behalf of his coplaintifff or co-defendant, as to any matter in which he is not
jointly interested, or liable with such co-plaintifff or co-defendant, and as to which a separate and not joint judgment shall
be rendered; and he may be compelled to attend in the same
manner as at the instance of an adverse party; but the examination thus taken shall not be used in behalf of the party
examined at the instance of the adverse party.

Sec. 303. Either party may propound interrogatories to
be filed with the pleadings relevant to the matter in controversy, and require the opposite party to answer the same
under oath. All interrogatories must be answered within the
time limited, positively, and without evasion, and the court
may enforce the answer by attachment or otherwise, and the
party may, in addition thereto, set forth in his answer, all
relative matter in avoidance; the answer to the interrogatories may be used or not, on the trial, at the option of the party
requiring it.

ARTICLE XVI.
Production and inspection qf Writings.

Sec. 304. If either party at any time before trial allow the
other an inspection of any writing, material to the action,
whether mentioned in the pleadings or not, and deliver to him
a copy thereof, with notice that he intends to read the same
in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may be so read, without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied by
affidavit before the commencement of the trial; if such denial
be made of any writing, not mentioned in the pleadings, the
court may give time to either party to procure evidence when
necessary for the furtherance of justice.

Sec. 305. The court or judge thereof may, upon motion,
compel by order, either party to produce, at or before the
trial, any book, paper, or document in his possession or power;
the order may be made upon application of either party, upon
reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney,-—if not
produced, parol evidence may be given of their contents.

Sec. 306. The court, or a judge thereof, may, under proper
restrictions, upon due, notice, order either party to give the
other, within a specified time, an inspection and a copy, of any
book or__part thereof, paper or document in his possession, or

ARTICLE XVII.
Empanneling Jurors.

Sec. 307. In any civil action, where the parties are entitled
to a trial by jury, and either party shall demand such trial, the
sheriff shall call a jury from the regular pannel, except as
hereinafter provided.

Sac. 308. The number of jurors to try a civil action shall
not exceed twelve, nor be less than three. The parties may
determine the number of jurors by agreement, and in case of
their disa reement, the number shall be twelve.

Snc.  The parties may agree upon the jurors to compose a special jury, and notify the court thereof, and the court
shall thereupon direct the sheriff to empannel such special jury,
if it can be done without unreasonable delay of the cause.

Size. 310. When both parties desire it, the court may direct
the sheriff to summon eighteen competent jurors, or a less

number, and the plaintifff first, and then the defendant, shall

strike off one juror in turn, until each has struck off six or

‘more, and the remaining jurors shall try the cause; or the

parties, when they consent, upon being furnished with a list of
jurors to be summoned, may exercise the right to strike out
any part of the names before the jurors are summoned, and
the remaining jurors only shall be summoned.

Sec. 311. It shall be sufficient cause for challenge to a.
juror, that he is interested in another suit, begun or contemplated, involving the same or a similar matter.

Sec. 312. Before the commencement of the trial, an oath
must be administered to each juror that he will well and truly
try the matter in issue between the parties, and a true verdict
give, accordin to law and evidence. ""

Sec. 313. n all cases where the jury consists of six or
more persons, each party shall have three peremptory challenges. \ If the jury consists of a less number than six, each
party shall have two peremptory challenges.1'

Sec. 314. When the regular pannel is exhausted, or is insufiicient from any cause, the sheriff shall call the bystanders,
or fill the jury in such a manner as the court may direct.

ARTICLE XVIII.
Trial and its incidents.

Site. 315. Every action shall stand for issues and trial at
the first term after it is commenced, when the summons has
been served on the defendant ten days, or publication has
been made sixty days before the -first day of the term.

Issues.

Sec. 316. Issues arise on the pleadings where a fact, or
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party, and contro-‘
verted by the other. They are-of two kinds:

First. Of law.

Second. Of fact.

may briefiy state his case, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.

Second. The adverse party may then briefly state his defense, and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.

Third. The party on whom rests the burthen of the
issues, must first produce his evidence; the adverse party
will then produce his evidence.

Fourth. When the evidence is concluded, and either party
desires special instructions to be given to the jury, such
instructions shall be reduced to writing, numbered and signed
by the party or his attorney asking the same, and delivered
to the court.’'‘

Fzfth. When the ar ument of the cause is concluded, the
court shall give general instructions to the jury, which shall
be in writing, and be numbered and signed by the judge,
if required by either party.

Sixth. Where either party asks special instructions to be
given to the jury, the court shall either give each instruction
as requested, or positively refuse to 0 so; or give the
instructions with a modification, in such manner that it
shall distinctly appear what instructions were given, in whole
or in part, and in like manner those refused, so that either
party may except to the instructions, as asked for, or as
modified, or to the modification. All instructions given by
the court must be si ned by the judge, and filed, together
with those asked for y the parties, as a part of the record-.
The instructions’ shall not be entered at large on the final

Sec. 325. A party excepting to the giving of instructions,
or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a formal
bill of exceptions; but it shall be sufiicient to write at the
close of each instruction, “refused and excepted to,” or
“given and excepted to,” which shall be signed by the party
or his attorney. 3 .

Sec. 326. The parties may either submit or argue the
case to the jury. In the argument, the party having the
burthen of the issue, shall have the opening and closing; but
shall disclose in the opening all the points relied on in the
cause; and if in the closing he refer to any new point or
fact not disclosed in the opening, the adverse party shall
have the right of replying thereto, which reply shall close
the argument in the case.

Sec. 327. It shall be the duty of the court when requested
by either party to take brief notes of the evidence of the parties in the order in which the same is introduced on the trial.

Sec. 328. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is

proper for the jury to have a view of real or personal property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it ma order them to be
conducted in a body, under the charge 0 a sworn officer, to
the place, which shall be shown. to them by some person
appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury are
thus absent, no person, other than the person so appointed,
shall speak-to them on any subject connected with the trial.

Sec. 329. Whenever a case is finally submitted to the
jury, they may decide’ in court, or retire for deliberation. If
they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient
place, under the charge of a sworn officer, until they agree

upon a verdict, or are discharged by the court, subject to the
discretion of the court to permit them to separate temporarily
and at their meals. The officer having them under his charge
shall not suifer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, unless by order of the court; and he shall
not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed
u on.’ A
pSnc. 330. If the jury are permitted to separate, either

during the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, they‘

must be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to
converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any
other person on any subject of the trial; and during the
trial, that it is their duty not to form or express amon themselves an opinion thereon until the cause is finally su mitted
to them.f . . . .
‘ Sec. 331. After the jury havelretired for deliberation, if
there is a disagreement between them as to any part of the
testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any _point of
law arising in the case, they may request the officer to conduct them into court, where the information required shall
be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or
their attorneys. - t,
Snc. 332. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or
calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both

parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

Sec. 333. In all cases where ‘the jury ‘are discharged

‘during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it

may be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the
court ma direct. ' ~ Sec. 3 . When t-he,jury have agreed upon their verdict,
it must be reduced to writing and signed by the foreman‘;
and when returned into court, the foreman shall deliver the
verdict,.and either party may poll the jury. If any juror
dissent from the verdict, they shall again be sent out to
deliberate. ""

Verdicts.

Sec. 335. The ‘verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or-any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury find the facts only, leaving judgment thereon to
the court.1 , A

Snc.’336. Inall actions the jury, unless otherwise directed

by the court, may’ in their discretion render a general or

special verdict; but the court shall, at the request of either

party, direct them to give a special verdict in writing upon‘

all or any of the issues; and in all cases, when requested by
either party, shall instruct them, if they render a general
verdict, to find specially upon_ particular questions of fact to

be stated in writing. This special Iinding is to be recorded
with the verdict. ' . 1

Sec. 337. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall control the
latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.

Sec. 338. In actions for the recovery of money, the jury
must assess the amount of the recovery.

Sec. 339. In actions for the recovery of specific personal I
property, the jury must assess the value of the property, as}
also the damages for the taking. or detention, whenever,.by

their verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery or
return of the property.‘

Trial by the Court.

Sec. 340. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties‘
in all actions, in the following manner: ' _ 1.

First. 13% failing to appear at the trial.

Second. y written consent in person, or by attorney,
filed with the clerk.” ~

Third. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.

See. 341. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court,1
it shall not be necessary for the court to state its {inding,}
except generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of
the parties request it, with the view of excepting to the
decision of the court upon‘ the questions of law involved in
the trial, in which case the court shall first state the facts in

writing, and then the conclusions of the law upon them, and
judgment shall be entered accordingly. '

I Exceptions.

Sec. 342. An exception is an objection taken to a;
decision of the court upon a matter of law.1'

Sec. 343. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision is made; but time may be‘
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the
term, unless by special leave of the court. It shall not be
necessary to copy a written instrument, or any documentary
evidence into a bill of exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to

refer to such evidence, if its appropriate place be designated
by the words “here insert.”

Sec. 344. No particular form of exception is required.
The objection must be stated with so much of the evidence

as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as

briefly as possible.

Sac. 345. Where the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds ‘of objection appear in the entry,
the exception may be taken by the party, causing to be noted
at the end of the decision that he excepts.

Sec. 346. Where the decision is not entered on the record,
or the grounds of objection do not suiiiciently appear in the
entry, the party excepting must reduce his exception to
writing, and resent it to the judge for his allowance and
signature. I true, the judge shall sign it, whereupon it shall
be filed with the pleadings as a part of the record, but shall
not be spread at large on the order book. If the writing is
not true, the judge shall correct it, or suggest the correction
to be made and sign it.’

See. 347. Either party may reserve any question of law
decided by the court, during the pro ress of the cause, for
the decision of the supreme court. ny question of law so
reserved, may be taken to the supreme court upon the bill of
exceptions showing the decision; or, if it arises on demurrer,
upon the leadings involved. When the questionso reserved
is shown y bill of exceptions, the party excepting shall nptify
the court that he intends to take the question of law to the
supreme court upon the bill of exceptions only, and the court
shall thereupon cause the bill of exceptions to be so made
that it will distinctly and briefly embrace so much of the
record of the cause only, and the statement of the court, as
will enable the supreme court to apprehend the particular
question involved.

Size. 348. The party excepting _may take the reserved
question to the supreme court by appeal, at any time within
one year after final judgment in the cause, and not afterwards.
The appeal in such case shall not stay proceedings upon the

judgment, unless so ordered by the the supreme court, or

some judge thereof.
Trial by Referees.

Sec. 349. All or any of the issues in the action, whether
of fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written
consent of the parties.

Sec. 350. The trial by referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They have the same power
to grant adjournments as the court upon such trial. If
required, they must state the facts found and the conclusions

of‘ law .scp:,11‘:1tel_\_’, and their clecision must be given and may
be ex1'.ept1:.d to 111111 1'1-.*.\'i1-.\\'1*1l in like manner. The report of
the 11-1‘e1'ee:~_~: npmn 1111- \‘1'iI1_1l1_: issue stands as the decision of the
1:u1_11't, 111111 j111I_,1_;1m'_-11t 11'1:1_\_-' he entered thereon in the same
11111111101‘ :15 ii‘ the :1t:tit111 l1111l been tried by the court. When
the 1'1:i'L'1‘1+1'11:e is to 1‘1_~pu1‘t the facts, the report has the effect
oi. :1 s1:.1c.«_‘i:1l \'(:1'1li1_-.1‘.

Sm. 3531. l11 all (_‘.:I'-I1."s‘ of reference the parties may agree‘

1_1pu_:n :1 ;~;11i1:1file [11-1°»-:n11 or persons, not exceeding three, and’
the 1‘L-ii.‘-.1'e;-.111.-.e. ;~;l111ll he u1'1l1_:1'1_-«I accordingly; and if the parties
do not 1lgl'L*E‘, tl11_r. 1-_m_11‘t :'-:l1:1ll appoint one or more referees,
not 1:xc:e1:1li1'1g tl11'1:1':, \1'l1q_1 sl1:1.ll be free from exception.

New Trials.

Sec. 352. A new trial may be granted in the following
cases: '

First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury
or prevailing party, or any order of court, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a
fair trial.

Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.

Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.

Fourth. Excessive damages.

Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery,
whether too lar e or too small, where the action is upon a
contract, or for t e injury or detention of property.

Sixth. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by
sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.

Seventh. Newly discovered evidence, material for the
party applying, which he could not with reasonable diligence,
have discovered and produced at the trial.

Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial, and exéepted
to by the party making the application. But not more than
two new trials shall be granted in the same cause to the same
party.’

person or reputation, nor in any other action where the
damages shall equal the actual ecuniary injury sustained.

Sac. 354. The application or a new trial must be made
at the term the verdict or decision is rendered.

Sec. 355. The application must be by motion, u on written cause, filed at the time of making the motion. he cause
mentioned in the second, third and seventh clauses of section
352, must be sustained by affidavit showing their truth. '

Sec. 356. Where causes for new trial are discovered, after
the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the
application may be made by a complaint filed with the clerk,
not later than the second term after the discovery, on which
a summons shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the
adverse party to appear and answeriit on or before the first
day of the next term. The application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the summons is returned executed,
and shall be summarily decided by the court, upon the evidence produced by the parties. But no such application shall
be made more than one year after the final judgment was
rendered.

Sec. 357. The provisionsofthiscode respectin trials byjury,
apply, so far as they are applicable, to trials by t e court.‘

Doc/gating Actions.

See. 358. The clerk shall keep an entry docket, wherein:
he shall enter all actions in the order in which they are‘
brought, and the date of issuing the process, and the date of
the judgment. Within three weeks after the adjournment of
the court, he shall make out an issue docket for all actions
then pending; and shall docket therein all cases which may be
commenced previous to the first day of the next term, in their
order, and furnish a copy of the same for the use of the court.

Sec. 359. The clerk shall docket as many actions for each

day as, in his opinion, will be disposed of by the court, and'

they shall be called for trial in their order on the docket. By
the agreement of the parties and the consent of the court,
any cause may be set for any subsequent day, to be noted on
the docket opposite the cause; but any cause so set over,
shall be called for trial in its order, as docketed by the clerk,
on the day to which it is set over, or as soon thereafter as
the business of the court will permit.

Sec. 360. The_ trial of any issue of fact shall be on or
after the day on which the cause is set on the docket, unless
otherwise agreed by the parties. The assessment of damages in case of default, shall be on or after the day on which
the default is taken. »
~ Sec. 361. The entr on the docket shall show whether or
not the summons has een fully served, or notice given, in
due time for trial, and whether or not the issues have been
formed. . - .

Sec. 362. When the summons has been served in due
time on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss,
or continue, for. further proceedings, his action as to those not
summoned, or not summoned in time, and proceed to trial as

to the others, or continue as to all of them, at his option..
ARTICLE XIX.
Judgments.

Sec. 363. An action ma be dismissed without prejudice:
First. Bythe plaintifff, efore the jury retire; or when

the trial is by the court, at any time before the finding of the

court is announced.

Second. By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear
on the trial. .

Third. By the court, on the refusal to make the necessary
parties, after having been ordered by the court.

Fourth. By the court, on the application of some of the
defendants, where there are others, whom the plaintifff fails
to prosecute with diligence.

Fifth. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff, of
an order concernin the proceedings in the action. In all
other cases upon t e trial, the decision must be upon the
merits.

Sec. 364. The plaintifff may dismiss his action in vacation
by filing with the clerk a writing to that effect. The clerk
shall enter such written dismissal in the order book, and the
court shall enter judgment accordingly at the next term.
The plaintifff shall not be liable to the defendant for any costs
made b him after notice of the dismissal.

Sec. 65. In any case, where a set-off or counterclaim

has been presented, which in another action would entitle the
defendant to a judgment against the plaintifff, the defendant
shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim,
without notice, although the plaintifff may have dismissed his
action, or failed to appear.‘

Sec. 366. Though all the defendants have been summoned judgment may be rendered against any of them, severally,’
Where the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments against
such defendants, if the action had been against them severally.

Sec. 367. If the takin of an account, or the proof of a:
fact, or the assessment ofg damages is necessary to enable:
the court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer,‘
or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may take the‘
accounts, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract,
assess the damages,or may refer the same to a commissioner or
may direct the same to be ascertained,or assessed by a jury.

Sec. 368. Judgment may be given for or against one or.
more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of;
several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case
requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on
each side, as between themselves.

Sec. 369. In a suit against several defendants, the court.
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more’
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others,
whenever a several judgment is proper.’r

Sec. 370. When a trial by jury has been had, and a gen-_
eral verdict rendered, the judgment must be in conformity to‘
the verdict;

Sec. 3'71. Where the verdict is special, or where there:
has been a special finding on particular questions of fact, the
court shall render the proper judgment.

Sec. 372. Where upon the statements in the pleadings.
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judg-3
ment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has
been found against such party.

Snc. 373. If a set-off, established at the trial, exceed the
plaintifff’s claim so established, judgment shall be rendered for
the excess; or, if it appears that the defendant is entitled to
any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefore. ||

Site. 377. Satisfaction of a judgment, or credits thereon,:

ma be ordered for sufficient cause, upon notice and motion.
no. 378. It shall not be necessary in any action upon a

mortgage, or lein, to give time for the payment of money, or‘

for doing any other act; but final judgment may, in such
cases, be given in the first instance.

Sec. 379. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, the sale of
the mor aged property shall in all cases be ordered.’

Sac. . The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there be
no answer, cannot exceed the relief demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the court may grant him any
relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and
embraced within the issue.

Sec. 381. When a judgment is to be executed without;
any relief from ap raisement laws, it shall be so ordered in
the judgment. W en a plaintifff has included in one action
demands, subject to the appraisement laws, with demands
made payable without any relief from appraisement laws, the
court may render separate judgments upon such demands.

Judgments on Demurrer.

Sec. 382. The judgment upon overruling a demurrer,shall be that the party shall plead over, and the answer or]
reply shall not be deemed to overrule the objection taken by
demurrer. But no objection taken by demurrer and overruled, shall be sufficient to reverse the judgment, if it appear
from the whole record that the merits of the cause have
been fairly determined. If a party fail to plead after the
demurrer is overruled, judgment shall be rendered against
him as upon a default.1'

Confessing Judgment without Action.

Sec. 383. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause
of action exists, may personally appear in a court of compe-‘
tent jurisdiction, and with the consent of the creditor, or

person having such cause of action, confess judgment thereor; whereupon, judgment shall be entered accordingly. .
Sec. 384. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in a writing to be filed and copied into the judgment.
The confession shall operate as a release of errors.
Sec. 385. Whenever a confession of judgment is _made
by power of attorney or otherwise, the party confessing shall

at the time he executes such power of attorney, or confesses \

judgment, make affidavit that the debt is just and owing,
and that such confession is not made for the purpose of
defrauding his creditors. The affidavit shall be filed with the

court’
Judgments in  Cases.

Sec. 386. Parties shall have the right in all cases, either

Vwith or without process, by an agreement to that effect, to

submit any matter of controversy between them, to any
court that would otherwise have jurisdiction of such cause,
upon an agreed statement of facts, to be made dut and signed
by the parties; but it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties, whereupon the court shall
proceed to try the same, and render judgment as in other
cases.

See. 387. The statement of the case, the submission and
the jud ment shall constitute the record.

Sec. 888. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and in like
manner shall be with costs, subject to an appeal, unless otherwise provided in the submission.

Ofer to Confess Judgments.

Sec. 389. The defendant may at any time before the trial,
serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, to allow judgment
to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to the
effect, therein specified, with costs. If the plaintifff accept the
offer in court, in the presence of the defendant, or give notice
of acceptance in writing within five days, and before the
trial, judgment shall be entered accordingly. If the offer is
not accepted, or notice of acceptance be not given as above
directed, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and hall not

be given in evidence, or commented on before the jury; and
if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment,
the defendant shall recover from the plaintifff the costs
occasioned subsequent to the time of the offer.

Sec. 390. Before an action for the recovery of money isl
brought a ainst any person, he may go into the court of the‘

county 0 his residence, or of that in which the person

having the cause of action resides, and offer to confess
judgment in favor of such person for a specified sum on
the cause of action. Whereupon, if the person, having had
notice that the offer would be made, of its amount and
the time and place of making it, ten days before the first
day of any term of the court, does not at any such term
accept the confession, and should afterwards commence an
action upon such cause, and not recover more than the
amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay all costs of the
action, and on the trial thereof the offer shall not be deemed
to be an admission of the cause of action or amount to which
the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence.

ARTICLE XX.
Djendants Constructively Summoned.

Sec. 391. A defendant constructively summoned shall be‘
allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and defend]
the action; and upon a substantial defense being disclosed,
time may be givenon reasonable terms, to prepare for trial.

Snc. 392. The statements of a complaint against a defend-j
ant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared,
except such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true,‘
but shall be established by proof. But where the plaintifff
files with the complaint his own affidavit, stating that any of

- the allegations thereof, recited in the affidavit are true, and

known to be so by the defendant, and that they cannot be
proved or shown otherwise than by his answer, so far as the
plaintifff knows or believes, such allegations, unless denied _b
the answer shall be taken as true. An.d the same rule shal
apply to the statements of an answer containing a set-off or
counterclaim, and to an affidavit made by the defendant in
support thereof, against any plaintifff who will not appear in
court for examination.

Sm‘. 393. Before rendering judgment against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, the
court may cause the plaintifff to.appear personally in court,
or before a commissioner, and answer under oath interrogatories concerning the matters in the complaint or any matters which might be set up in defense thereto, including

matters of set-off and counterclaim, and may order the
examination to be reduced to writing, and filed with the
papers of the action. .

Sec. 394. If, upon the ‘examination provided in the last
section, any matters of set-off or counterclaim are disclosed,
the same may be adjusted by the judgment.‘ A

Sec. 395. N 0 personal judgmentshall be rendered against

a defendant constructively summoned, who has not appeared
in the action. . l

ARTICLE XXI.
C 0.913.

Sec. 396. In all civil actions the party recovering judgment shall recover costs, except in those cases in which a
different provision is made by law.1'

Sec. 397. In actions for money demands on contract,
commenced in the circuit court or court of common pleas, if
the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars, exclusive of costs,
he shall pay costs, unless the judgment has been reduced
below fifty dollars by a set-off or counterclaim, pleaded and
proved by the defendant, in which case the party recoverin
judgment shall recover costs. When the judgment is reduced

below fifty dollars by proof of payments, the defendant shall
recover costs_.1 Sec. "398. In all actions for damages solely, not arising out:

of contract, if the plaintifff do not recover five dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages, except in
actions for injuries to character and false imprisonment, and
where the title to real estate comes in question.‘

Sec. 399. Relators, and persons and corporations for

‘whose use an action is brought, whether such use is shown

by the pleadings of the plaintifff or defendant, shall be liable
for costs jointly with the actual parties to the action; but
when the State is plaintifff, the relator only shall be liable,
and judgment for costs shall be rendered accordingly.1'

Sec. 400. In actions where there are several plaintifflls, or

several defendants, the costs shall be apportioned according‘

to the judgments rendered; and where there are several
causes of action embraced in the same complaint, or several
issues, the plaintifff shall recover costs upon the issues determined in his favor, and the defendantshall recover costs upon
the issues determined in his favor.

SEC. 401. V'Vhen the plaintifff shall, at the same court
bring several actions against the defendant, upon demands
which might have been joined in one action, he shall recover
costs only in one action, unless it shall appear to the court
that the actions affect different rights or interests, or other
sufficient reasons exist why the several demands ought not
to have been joined in one action.

See. 402. Plaintiffs who are not residents of this State,
before commencing any action, shall file in the office of the
clerk a written undertaking, payable to the defendant, with
surety, to be approved by the clerk, for the payment of all

‘other act, 8. certified copy of the judgment may be served
upon the party against whom it is given, or upon the person
or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the
same, and his obedience thereto enforced; if he refuse, he
may be punished by the court as for contempt.

Sec. 408. There shall be three kinds of execution--one
against the property of the judgment-debtor, one against his
person, and one for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, or such delivery, with damages, for withholding the same.

Sec. 409. No execution against the body shall be issued,
while an execution against the property remains unreturned,
nor shall an execution against the property be issued while
there is an execution against the body unreturned.

Sec. 410. When the execution is against ‘the "property or
body of the judgment-debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff
of any county in the State. Where it requires the delivery
of real or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff
of the county where the property, or some part thereof, is
situated.

’ Sec. 411. The execution must issue in the name of the
State, and be directed to the sheriff of the county, sealed
with the seal, and attested by the clerk of the court. It
must intelligibly refer to the judgment; stating the court
where, and the time when rendered, the names of the parties, the amount, if it be for money, and the amount actuall
due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially, as fol:
lows.

\ First. If it be against the property of the judgment-debtor,
it shall require the sheriff‘ to satisfy the judgment out of the
property of the debtor, subject to execution.

Second. If it be against real or personal property in the
[hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff
to satisfy the judgment out of such property.

Third. If it be a ainst the body of the judgment-debtor,
it shall require the dlxeriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment,
or be dischar ed according to law.

Fourth. I it be for the delivery of the possession of real

. or personal property,it shall require the sheriff to deliver the

possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party
entitled thereto; and may at the same time require the sheriff
to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents and profits, recovered

by the same judgment out of the property of the party
against whom it was rendered, subject to execution, and the

value of the property for which the judgment was recovered
to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had,

and shall, in that respect, be deemed an’ execution against
property.

SEC. 412. The execution shall be returnable within one
hundred and ei hty days from its date.

See. 413. hen an execution against the property of any?

person is delivered to an officer to be executed, ‘the goods
and chattels of such person within the jurisdiction of the
officer, shall be bound from the time of the delivery; but if
there be several executions, whether issued out of a court of
record, or by a justice of the peace, against the same defendant, in the hands of. different officers, that execution, without
regard to the time of its delivery, under which the first levy
is made, shall have the preference, and all liens created by
the prior delivery of any other execution, shall be divested in
favor of the execution first levied.‘

Sec. 414. Judgments on bonds payable to the State of
Indiana, shall bind the real estate of the debtor from the
commencementof the action.

SEC. 415. The sheriff receiving an execution shall indorse
thereon the year, month, day and hour when he received it.

Sac. 416. If it appear uponthe face of an execution, or
by the indorsement of the clerk, that of those against whom
it issued,any one is surety for another, the property of the

principal shall be first sold, unless the surety shall direct
otherwise.
» Sec. 417. An execution may be issued and executed on
Sunday whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintifff,
or some person in his behalf, stating that he will lose his
judgment; as he has reason to fear and believe, unless process
issue on that day.

See. 418. The clerk shall indorse on such execution that
the defendants are not privileged from service on Sunday.

Sec. 419. If the sheriff die, or go out of office, before the
return of any execution, his successor, or other officer authorized to discharge the duties of the office in such case,
shall proceed thereon in the same manner that the sheriff
should have done. Stay qf Execution.

Sec. 420. When judgment has been rendered against any
person for the recovery of money or sale of property, he
may, by procuring one or more sufiicient freehold sureties,
to enter into a recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail
for the defendant for the payment of the judgment, together
with the interest and costs accrued, and to accrue, have a
stay of execution from the time of signing the judgment, as
follows:

First. If the sum for which jud ment was rendered, inclusive of costs, do not exceed six do lars, for thirty days.

Second. If such sum and costs exceed six, and do not
exceed twelve dollars, sixty days.

Third. If such sum and costs exceed twelve, and do not
exceed twenty dollars, ninety days.

Fourth. If such sum and costs exceed twenty, and do
not exceed forty dollars, one hundred and twenty days.

Ftfth. If such sum and costs exceed forty, and do not
exceed one hundred dollars, one hundred and fifty days.

Sixth. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars,
one hundred and eighty days. "' Sec. 421. The bail, for stay of execution, may be taken
and approved by the clerk, and the recognizance entered of
record, at any time before the term of stay of execution expires. The undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the
payment of the judgment, interest, and costs that may accrue
at or before the expiration of the term of the stay of execution. The recognizance shall be written immediately following the entry of the judgment, and signed by the bail.

SEC. 422. When the bail is entered after execution issued,
the clerk shall immediately notify the sheriff of the stay, and
he shall forthwith return the execution, noting his doings
thereon.

Sec. 423. When execution issues for want of bail, before
the term for stay expires, the clerk shall indorse thereon the
date of the judgment, and that the same is repleviable.

Sec. 424. In such case the defendant may have a stay of =
execution, for the residue of such term, by putting in bail to

be approved by the sheriff, and indorsed thereon, and signed
by the bail.

Sec. 425. The sheriff having taken the bail, shall immediately return the execution,. with his doings thereon, to the
clerk's office, and the recognizance shall be copied by the
clerk in the execution docket, and shall have the same force
as if taken by the clerk.

Sec. 426. All property levied on before stay of execution,
and all written undertakings for the delivery of personal
property to the sheriff, shall be relinquished by the ofllcer,
upon bail for the stay of execution being entered.

Sec. 427. Every reco nizance of bail, taken as above
provided, shall have the egect of a judgment confessed, from
the date thereof, a ainst the person and property of the bail.

Sec. 428. At t e expiration of the stay, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to issue a joint execution against the property of all the judgment-debtors, and replevin-bail; but the
sheriff shall first levy upon the property of the judgment-defendants, if sullicient can be found; if not, he shall then, without delay, levy the execution upon the property of the bail.
But no property of the bail shall be sold while property of
the original judgment-debtor, subject to the execution, can
be found in the county.

Sec. 429. No stay of execution shall be allowed upon
any judgment recovered against any officer, person or corporation, or the sureties of any of them, for money received in
a fiduciary capacity, or for a breach of any ofhcial duty.
The clerk shall issue execution upon such judgments forthwith, returnable in ninety days, and indorsed “not repleviable,” and it shall be so ordered in the judgment.

Sec. 430. When any court shall render judgment against
two or more rsons, any of whom are sureties for any other
or others in t e contract, on which the judgment is founded,
there shall be no stay of execution on the judgment, if the
sureties object at the time of rendering the jud ment, and it
shall be so ordered by the court, unless the baiffor the stay
of execution will undertake specially to pay the judgment, in

Sec. 434. Current coin may be levied upon and returned‘
on execution, without sale, as so much money collected.

Sec. 435. Bills, note§,drafts and checks, or other evidences
of debt, issued by any moneyed corporation, or bank, or by‘
this State or the United States, and circulatin as money,
may be levied upon as personal property, and so (1 on execution.

Sec. 436. Goods and chattels pledged, assigned or mort-1
gaged as security for any debt or contract, may be levied‘
u on and sold on execution against the person makin the
p edge, assignment or mortgage, subject thereto, an the
purchaser shall be entitled to the possession, upon complying
with the conditions of the pledge, assignment or mortgage.

Sec. 437. Shares of stock in any corporation or company,:
may be levied on and sold in the county where the oilice and
books, showing the shares of stock and stockholders of the
corporation or com any, are kept; and the sheriff shall
transfer the stock, su ject to the rights of the corporation or
company. The sheriff shall have access to the books of any
corporation or company in his county for the purpose of
making the levy, and, if refused access, the court shall enforce
the ri ht. The shares of stock subject to be levied upon,
shall %>e bound by the execution from the time of the levy,
and when such levy is made the sheriff shall leave the notice

thereof “with the officers of the company, and such levy shall
constitute a lien upon such stock from the time of such levy.

Sec. 438. Any debt or thing in adtion, legally or equitably assignable, may be levied upon, when given up by the
defendant, and sold on execution, in the same manner as
other personal property. ‘f *

Sec. 439. The sheriff making the sale of any such debt,
or thing in action, shall assign and deliver the same to the
‘purchaser, and the‘ assignment shall have the same effect as

if made by the execution-defendant at the time of making

the levy thereon, and shall be treated as so made.

Snc. 440. In any action in which such assignment is
declared upon or stated, it shall not be necessary to plead or
prove any judgment or execution, by virtue of which the
sale was made, nor to prove the execution of the assignment,
unless the same be denied under oath.

Sec. 441. When any execution shall issue against the
real or personal property of any person, it shall be the
duty of the sheriff to levy the same lirst upon that part of the
property designated by such person, if there be no reasonable
doubt that he is the owner thereof, and if designated in time‘
to enable the sheriff to levy and sell without unnecessary
dela .

‘S30. 442. If no property be thus designated, it shall be

the duty of the sheriff to levy the execution upon any property of the debtor which can be found, subject to execution. *
Sec. 443. If the property thus designated shall be insufficient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall levy the same
upon such other property, subject to execution, as can be
most readily found, sufficient, in addition to the property designated, to satisfy the execution.

S120. 444. In all cases where the personal estate of the

debtor, subject to execution, is insufficient to satisfy the execution, the real estate shall be exempt from levy and sale until
the personal estate is levied upon and sold, unless the debtor
shall direct otherwise, and the principal messuage, lands or
tenements of the debtor, or upon which he may reside, shall
not be levied upon unless other property cannot be found
sufficient to satisfy the execution in the hands of the sheriff.

Appraisement.

Sac. 445. N 0 property shall be sold on any execution or«

order of sale issued out of any court, for less than two-thirds

of the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens and in-,

cumbrances, except where otherwise provided by law. *
Sec. 446. The sheriff, immediately upon levying an execution, shall proceed to ascertain the cash value of such
personal property.
Sac. 447. For that purpose two disinterested householders

of the neighborhood where the levy is made shall be selectedj

as appraisers, one of whom shall be selected by each of the
parties or their agent; or, in the absence of either party or
his agent, or upon the refusal of either party, after three
days’ notice by the sheriff to make the selection, the sheriff
shall proceed to select the appraisers. They shall forthwith
proceed to appraise the property according to its cash value
at the time, deducting liens and encumbrances; and in case
of their disagreement as to the value, they shall selecta like
disinterested appraiser, and with his assistance shall complete
the valuation, and the appraisement of any two of them shall
be deemed the cash value.

S130. 448. In case any appraiser shall fail to act or to complete such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead, as
above provided.

Sec. 449. It shall not be the duty of the sheriff or ap-;

praisers to ascertain the amount of liens and encumbrances;
but either party may furnish the sheriff with a list thereof,
with the amount and nature of each.

Sec. 450. The sheriff shall furnish the appraisers a schedule of the property levied on, with the encumbrances made
known to him, and they shall proceed to fix and set down
opposite to each tract, lot or parcel of real estate, and of the
several articles of personal property, the cash value, deducting liens and encumbrances, which schedule they shall return
to the sheriff. ’

Sec. 451. The appraisers shall take and subscribe an oath
annexed to such appraisement, to the effect that the property
mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their judgment,
worth the sums specified therein; that the same is the fair
cash value thereof at the time, exclusive of liens and encumbrances; which oath the sheriff is authorized to administer
and attest, when taken and subscribed by the appraisers.

Sec. 452. When any property shall be sold subject to liens
and encumbrances, the purchaser may pay the liens and
encumbrances, and hold the property discharged from all claims
of the execution-defendant; or, he may hold the property
subject to be redeemed by the execution-defendant, his heirs
or assigns, by paying to the purchaser, his hiirs or assigns, the
purchase money, with interest; when redeemed the purchaser
shall have the growing crops, and shall not be accountable
for rents and profits, but he shall account for waste.

Sec. 453. When any property levied on remains unsold,
it shall be the duty of the sheriff when he returns the execution, to return the appraisement therewith, stating in his
return the failure to sell, and the cause of the failure.

Size. 454. The lien of the levy upon the property, shall

continue, and the clerk, unless otherwise directed by the,

plaintifff, shall forthwith issue another execution, reciting the
return of the former execution, the levy and failure to sell,
and directing the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the
property unsold, if the same is sufficient; if not, then out of
any other property of the debtor, subject to execution.

Sec. 455. Whenever any property levied upon remains
unsold for want of buyers, the plaintifff may cause the same
to be re-offered at any time before the return day of the execution, at his costs, as often as he may direct; but in case of
the sale of the property, the costs of such offer and sale shall be
taxed against the defendant. Each party may have one re-valuation of the property, at his costs, after the first offer to sell’.

Sec. 456. Propert conveyed by a debtor with intent to
hinder, delay, or de raud creditors shall be sold without

appraisement.
Delivery Bonds.

Sec. 457. Any personal property taken in execution, may
be returned to the execution-defendant by the sheriff, upon the

delivery by the defendant to him, of a written undertaking,
payable to the execution plaintifff, with sufficient surety to be
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that the property shall
be delivered to thesheriff at a time and place named in the
undertaking, to be sold according to law, or for the payment
to the sheriff‘ of the appraised value thereof, or when the same
has not been appraised, then of the fair value of the same.

Sec. 458. Before the sheriff‘ shall deliver any part of the
property to the defendant, he shall cause it to be appraised
in the manner prescribed by law, when an appraisement
thereof is required, and the defendant may sell or dispose of the
property, paying the officer the full appraised value thereof.

Sec. 459. In case of the non-delivery, of the property
according to the undertaking, it shall be the duty of the sheriff"
to levy upon and sell the same, or any other property of the
defendant, as soon as practicable, at any time before the return day of the execution.

Sac. 460. Upon a forfeiture of the Written undertaking,
the officer shall forthwith return it indorsed “forfeited,” to‘
the clerk’s office, for the use of the plaintifff.

Snc. 461. Such undertaking shall be valid in law, and an
action had thereon whenever the condition thereof is broken,‘
and on recovery, the value of the property so taken, with
damages not exceeding ten per cent. on such value, shall be
assessed in favor of the plaintifff‘. But the recovery shall not
exceed the amount due on the execution, and ten per cent.
on the principal. ""

of the most pu

sale, hyposting up written or printed notices thereof, in three

b ‘ic places in the township in which the real
estate is situated; and a like advertisement at the door of the
court house of the county, and, also, by advertising the
same for three weeks successively in a newspaper printed
nearest to the real estate, if any such newspaper be printed
within the jurisdiction of the sheriff.

Sec. 468. Previous notice of the time and place of the:
sale of any personal property on execution, shall be given}
for ten days successively, by posting up written notices
thereof in at least three of the most public places in the
township where the sale is to be made.

Sac. 469. Personal property shall not be sold unless the
same shall be present and subject to the view of those attendin
thesale; and it shall be sold at public auction in such lots ang
parcels. as shall be calculated to bring the highest price.

- Sec. 470. If the property levied on shall not sell for a sum
sufficient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall make a
further and sufficient levy, if sufficient property can be found,
and proceed as upon the lirst levy, and return his doings
thereon. .

Sec. 471. The clerk, upon the return of an execution
unsatisfied, shall issue another execution upon the jud ment,
and indorse thereon the amount of money levied, y the
former, if any.

Sac. 472. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of an
execution, and the payment of the purchase money, the
sheriff making the sale, or in case of his death or going out
of office, his successor, or any officer authorized to discharge
the duties of the office, shall execute and deliver to the urchaser a deed of conveyance for the premises, which sha 1 be
valid and effectual to convey all the right, title and interest
of the execution-debtor therein to the purchaser, except» any
right of redemption as provided by law.

Sec. 473. In case the purchaser of any real estate upon
execution, having paid the purchase money therefore, shall die

Snc.- 477. Or the sheriff may re-expose and sell the property, on~the same or any subsequent day, according to law,
and if the amount bid at the second sale, shall not equal the
amount bid at the first sale, and the costs of second sale, the
first purchaser shall be liable for the, deli6' y, and damages
thereon, not exceeding ten per cenk,‘;én‘d- terest and costs,
to be recovered by a like notice.and.hption as provided in

the last section.  , "
Sec. 478. When any execution agbe issued to any

county, other than the one in which the judgment is rendered,

return may be made by mail; but money cannot be thus sent,
except by the direction of the party entitled thereto, or his
attorney.

Sec. 479. When property shall be sold on execution for
more than will satisfy the execution, including interest and
costs, the sheriff shall pay the overplus to the executiondebtor of whom it was levied, or to his assigns.

Slzerzf to pay over money—His liability and return.

Sec. 480. When the sheriff has collected an money on
execution, he shall pay over the same at the ear iest opportunity, unless enjoined.

Sec. 481. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse to levy
upon or sell any property, justly liable to execution, when
the same might have been done, he shall be amerced to the
value of such property, not to exceed the amount necessary
to satisfy the execution.

Sec. 482. If any sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return:
any execution, as required by law, or shall make a false‘

return thereon, he shall be amerced in such amount as ‘he
might and should have levied by virtue of the execution. ""

When the return day of an execution falls on Sunday, it shall
be returned on the following Monday.

Sec. 487. When the sheriff has sold the property of a
non-resident, or other person upon an execution issued on a
judgment recovered against him in a case where publication
is provided for, and no personal notice of the pendency of
the action was given to such defendant, the plaintifff shall not
be entitled to receive any of the proceeds of such sale, until
he has filed in the clerk's office a written undertaking, with
surety, to be approved by the clerk, to the effect that he will
refund the money about to be received by him, or so much
thereof as shall be necessary, if the judgment shall afterwards be annulled or set aside, and the defendant shall show
thatthe plaintifff's claim is unfounded in whole or in part.
But surety to refund shall not be required in cases of
attachment.

Sac. 488. The death of the defendant, after the execution is placed in the hands of the sheriff to be executed, shall
not affect his proceedings thereon, except that the amount of
property, allowed absolutely to the widow of the decedent,
shall be exempt from levy and sale under such execution.

Executions against the Body.

Sec. 489. N o execution shall be issued upon any judgment a ainst the body of any execution-debtor, except as
hereina ter provided.

Sec. 490. Before any such execution shall issue, the plaintifff shall file with the clerk an affidavit, charging the debtor
with fraudulently concealing, removing, conveying or transferring his property, subject to execution, with intent to defraud and delay the plaintifff, or charging that ‘the debtor has
money, rights, credits” or effects, with which the judgment,
or some part thereof, might be paid, and which he fraudulently
withholds, or conceals, with a view to delay or defraud the
creditor.

Sec. 491. The affidavit need not desi nate, specifically,
any property, monies or effects, fraudulent y removed, transferred, concealed, conveyed or withheld by the debtor; but
the jury or court, in determining the matters in issue between
the parties, if the finding be for the creditor, shall designate,
in the finding, the monies, effects, property, debts or things
in action subject to execution, which have been thus removed
concealed, transferred, conveyed or withheld, and the value
thereof.

Sec. 492. Upon the filing of the affidavit, the clerk shall
issue a notice, requiring the debtor to appear at the next term
of the court, and show cause why such execution should not
issue against him.

Snc. 493. After ten days’ notice, or after the return of
two notices of “not found,” the court shall hear and determine the matters and things contained in the affidavit.

Sec. 494. If the debtor shall fail to appear and show cause,
the court may hear and determine the same in the absence of
the debtor, or a jury for that purpose may be impanneled, if
desired by the creditor.

SEC. 495. If the debtor appear and plead to the affidavit
any suilicient matter to bar the issuing of the execution,
and an issue be taken thereon, the same may be tried by the
court, or a jury, as in other cases.

Sac. 496. If the issue be determined against the debtor, _

the court, unless good cause be shown, shall forthwith order
an execution against his body, subject to the rules and restrictions of the next two sections. ' ,

SEC. 497. If the debtor shall surrender such monies,
effects, property, debts or things in action, to the use and for
the benefit of the creditor, or pay the value thereof, as found
by the court or jury, no execution shall for that cause he
issued against his body. ’

Sec. 498. If the debtor fail to surrender or pay, as provided in the precedin section, upon the return of such finding, an execution sha l forthwith issue against his body upon
the jud ment.

Sac.  The execution against the body shall be served by
arresting the defendant, and, unless discharged b due course
of law, committing him to the common jail o the county.

Sec. 500. If the creditor show in his affidavit, that the
debtor has not been held to special bail in the original action,
or, having been thus held, has been surrendered by his bail,
and that he has reason to fear, and does fear, that such debtor
will leave the State before the trial and determination of the
matters alleged in the affidavit, an order of arrest and hail
shall issue against the debtor, and be served and returned, as
in other cases. _

Sec. 501. The debtor, when arrested on the order of
arrest, may enter into a reco nizance, with sufficient surety,
for his appearance at the tria of such proceedings, and for
the surrender of his body if an execution be awarded.‘

\

Sec. 502. The sheriff may take the recognizance in the
form and by the rules provided in other cases for order of
arrest and hail, either before or after the debtor is committed
to prison, and shall return the same to the proper court.
The recognizance shall have the same force as in other cases,
and all subsequent proceedings may be had thereon by the
parties and persons interested, as are provided in cases of
arrest and hail. .

Sec. 503. No female, or soldier of the revolution, shall be
imprisoned upon any order of arrest and bail, or upon an‘
execution against the body.

Insolvent: Discharged from Custody.

Sac. 504. Any Parson arrested or imprisoned on execu-A
tion may discharge himself from custody by delivering to the
sheriff a suliiciency of property, either real or personal, to
discharge the debt or damages due on the execution, together
with the interest and costs thereon; or by delivering to the
sheriff all the property, both real and personal, which he may
have, not included in the finding of the court or jury, subject
to execution, if any, together with the property, credits and
effects included in the finding of the .court or jury, and all his
choses in action, if any, exceeding, with other property retained, the amount exempt bylaw from execution. He shall
also make oath that he has no more or other property, either
real or personal, subject to execution, and that he has no
monies, rights, credits or effects in his possession, or under
his control, or in the possession, or under the control of any
other person for his use, exceeding, with other property retained, the amount exempt from execution, and that he has
neither directly nor indirectly, disposed of, transferred, or
concealed, any of his property, rights, credits, monies, or
e3'ects, nor confessed or suffered any judgment with intent
to delay or defraud any of his creditors.’

Site. 505. For the purpose of enabling the defendant to take:
the oath, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, upon the prisoner's}
request, to take him before some person authorized to administer an oath, who shall reduce the oath to writing, explain it
to the prisoner, and cause him to be sworn to and subscribe
it, and, having certified the oath, deliver it to the sheriff, who

SIG. 509. Any property given up by the person underi
arrest shall be disposed of by the sheriff in the same manner‘
as property taken on execution against property.

See. 510. The sheriff shall make return of all his doings!
therein, the discharge of the debtor and the sale of the property, according to the facts, to the court.

Sec. 511. The arrest of any person who may die Wl’lllOl
in custody, shall not discharge the judgment, or any lien‘
upon property, but the same may be enforced by any legal
proceedings.

SEC. 512. Any person escaping from custody may be re-4
taken by the same or a new execution against his body, or his
property may be proceeded against in the same manner as if
his body had never been taken in execution.

Execution and Judgment Dockets.

Sec. 513. The clerk of every court of record shall keep;
a docket, in which he shall enter, within thirty days after each‘
term of the court, in alphabetical order, a statement of each
judgment rendered at such term, containing:

First. The names at length of all the parties.

Second. The amount of the judgment and costs, and date
of its rendition. ’

T/tird. If the judgment be against several persons, the
statement shall be repeated under the name of each defendant in alphabetical order.

Sec. 514. Recognizance of bail for stay of execution shall ;
be entered in such docket immediately after, the taking or‘
return thereof, specifying the judgment, and its amount, the
date of the recognizance and names of the bail.

Sec. 515. Such docket shall be a record, and open during

‘the usual hours of transacting business, to the examination of

any person desiring it.

See. 516. Every clerk, neglecting to enter any judgment;
or recognizance, as herein required, shall be liable to any,
person injured, for theamount of damages sustained by suc ‘
neglect, to be recovered in an action against the clerk alone,
or upon his official bond, against him and his sureties.

Sac. 517. The clerk of every court of record shall keep
an execution docket, in which he shall enter all executions,
as they are issued by him, specifyin , in proper columns, the
names of the parties, the amount 0 the judgment, and the
interest-due at the issuing of the execution, and the costs;
and prepare an additional column, in which he shall enter at
length the return of the sheriff; and such docket entries shall
be taken and deemed to be a record.

ARTICLE XXIII.

' Proceedings supplementary to Execution.

S190. 518. When an execution against the property of the
judgment-debtor, or any of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or
if he do not reside in the State, to the sheriff of the county
where the judgment is rendened, is returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the judgment-creditor, after such return is
made, shall be entitled to an order, to be issued by any court
of record of the county to which such execution issued, or
by the clerk thereof in vacation, requiring the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before the court, if in session; if the
court is not in session, then before the judge thereof at a time
and place to be specified therein, or on the first day of the
next term of the court, to answer concerning his property
within the county, to which the execution was issued.

Size. 519. If, after the issuing of an execution against
property, the execution-plaintifff or other erson in his behalf,
shall make and file an affidavit with the cferk of any court of
record of any county, to the effect that any judgment-debtor
residing in such county has property, describing it, which he
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, the court, if in session, or the judge or clerk thereof in
vacation, shall issue an order requiring the judgment-debtor
to appear forthwith before the court, if in session; if not, at
the next term of the court, or before the judge thereof, at a
time and place to be specified therein, to answer concerning
the same; and such proceedin s may thereafter be had for the
application of the property of the judgment-debtor towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, as provided upon the return
of an execution. ~

Site. 520. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney
shall, at the time of applying for the order, or at any time
afterwards, make and file his affidavit with the court, or the
clerk thereof in vacation, that there isdanger of the debtor
leaving the State or concealing himself, and that there is
reason to believe he has property, rights, credits, monies or

effects, which he unjustly refuses to apply to the judgment,

with intent to defraud the creditor, the court shall issue to

the sheriff of _the county an order of arrest and bail.

Sec. 521. The sheriff, having taken the execution-debtor:
into custody upon the order of arrest, shall require him to
enter into a written undertakin to the plaintifff, with surety to
be approved by the officer, that e will attend before the court
or judge thereof, as required, and abide such order as may be
made; and that he will not, in the meantime, dispose of an
part of his property not exempt from execution. In’ defau t
thereof he shall be committed to prison; and, upon breach
of such undertaking, the plaintifff shall have his remedythereon to the amount of the value of the property unlawfully
withheld or disposed of.

Sec. 522. After the issuing or return of an execution«
against the property of the judgment-debtor, or any one of the 1
several debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that:
any person or corporation has property of such judgment-debtor, or is indebted to him in any amount, which, together with
otherproperty claimed by him as exempt from execution, shall
exceed the amount of property so exempt by law, such person, corporation, or any member thereof, may be required to
appear and answer concerning the same as above provided.

Sec. 523. Witnesses may be required to appear and;
testify in the proceeding provided forin this chapter [article] ;;
and either party may examine the other as a witness in the
same manner as upon the trial of an issue; or the plaintifff
may waive the answer of the debtor, and rely upon other testimony. All such examinations and answers shall be on the
oath of the part , except that when a corporation answers,
the answers shal be on the oath of an officer thereof.

Sec. 524. Upon the hearing, the judge of the court may.
order anyproperty of the judgment-debtor, not exempt from‘
execution, in the hands. either of himself or any other person
or any debt due to the judgment-debtor, to be applied to the
satisfaction of the judgment, and forbid transfers of property
and chosen in action, and such judge or court shall have fu 1
power to enforce all orders and decrees in the premises, by
attachment or otherwise.

‘Sec. 525. Costs shall be awarded and taxed in this proceeding as in other cases. .

ARTICLE XXIV.

Real Estate subject to judgment and e:cecutz'on——Sales and
restitution thereof.

Sec. 526. The following real estate shall be liable to all
judgments and attachments, and to be sold on execution

Sec. 528. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the court

rendering any judgment, to make out a certified copy thereof,j
under the seal of the court, at the request of any person interested, which copy if taken from the circuit or supreme

court, may be filed in the office of the clerk of any circuit

court, and if taken from the court of common pleas, in the

office of the clerk of any court of common pleas of this State,

and when so filed, shall be recorded and entered in the judgment docket in the same manner as judgments rendered in

such court.

Sec. 529. Suchjudgment, from the time of filing the copy:
aforesaid, shall be a lien upon all the real estate of the judg-‘
meat-debtor situated in the county where filed, as fully as if
such judgment had been rendered therein.

Sec. 530. Every certificate of purchase at a land office of 3
the United States, shall be evidence of legal title to the land
therein described.

Sec. 531. Every recognizance shall bind the real estate of I
the principal from the time it is taken; but shall only bind
the real estate of the surety from the time judgment of forfeiture is rendered.

Sec. 532. An execution against property issued to another:
county, shall bind the real estate of the defendant from the
time of the levy. '

Sec. 533. The reversal of any judgment by virtue of ;
which any real estate has been sold or transferred, or the titlel
thereto afiirmed, shall not avoid the sale, transfer or title, if
the person to be affected thereby shall be, or shall claim under,
a purchaser in good faith, and not a party to the record, or
attorney of any party.

Sec. 534. In every case of a sale, transfer or confirmation‘
of real estate upon execution, or by judgment, where the}
defendant cannot have restitution of his estate, he shall be
entitled to recover of the judgment-plaintifff the full value of
the estate, with intesest, when the judgment-plaintifffhas purchased the estate, or had the same transferred or confirmed
to him; and when the land has been sold by the sheriff to any
other person, he may recover the proceeds of the sale, with
interest, deducting the amount applied to the costs of the
judgment-defendant.

Sec. 535. In every other case of a reversal of any judg-j
ment, by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or‘
transferred, or the title confirmed, the judgment-defendant
shall have restitution thereof as follows:

Sec. 536. He may notify the purchaser or his tenant, or
other person in possession, that at the next term he will move
the court which rendered the judgment, to restore to him the
possession of the premises.

Sec. 537. Upon proof that the notice has been served ten
days, the court may proceed to hear and determine the issues
made by the parties, and render judgment accordingly; or
the judgment-defendant may recover his real estate by the
ordinary action. T

Sec. 538. No sale of any real estate, made by an executor,‘
administrator or guardian, shall be avoided, on account of any
irre ularity or defect in the proceedings, if it shall appear,

F52’:-st. That the sale was authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction.

Second. That the executor, administrator or guardian gave
bond, as required by law.

Third. That notice of the time and place of sale was given
in the manner prescribed by law; and _

Fourth. That the premises were sold accordin ly, and are
held by or under one who purchased them in goo faith.‘

ARTICLE XXV.

Doclceting Justices’ judgments, and proceedings thereon.

Sec. 539. It shall be the duty of every justice of the peace
in this State, when requested by the plaintifff or his agent, to
make out and certif a true and complete, transcript of the
proceedings and ju gment in any cause, upon any docket,

egally in his possession. The plaintifff may file such transcript

in the office of the clerk of any court of common pleas in
this State.

Sec. 540. It shall be the duty of the clerk forthwith to
record the transcript in the order book, and docket the judgment in the execution docket. The judgment set forth in
the transcript shall be a lien upon the real property of the
defendant, within the county, to the same extent as judgments
of the court of common pleas, from the time of filing the
transcript.

Sec. 541. Whenever the plaintifff shall also procure from
the justice a certificate that an execution has been issued upon ‘
the judgment to the proper constable, and by him returned,
indorsed that no goods or chattels could be found, sufficient
to satisfy the judgment, or a part thereof, and file the certificate with the clerk, he shall record it in the order book with
the transcript; and, upon the plaintifff or his agent also filing
with the clerk his affidavit that the judgment is unpaid, in
whole or in part, stating the amount due, he shall issue an
execution upon the judgment, and indorse the amount to be
levied of principal, interest and costs; which execution shall
be issued, served and returned in the same manner as executions issued upon judgments of the court of common pleas.

- ARTICLE XXVI.

Commissioner to convey Real Estate.

See. 542. Real property may be conveyed by a commis-'
sioner appointed by the court: I

First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is
ordered to convey real property to another, or any interest
therein.

Second. Or where real property, or any interest therein,

has been sold, and the purchase money paid.
Sec. 543. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to 1

the judgment authorizing the conveyance, that the same
may be readily found; but need not recite the record in the
case generally.

Sec. 544. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment, '.
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to

convey the land.
Sec. 545. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale!

ordered by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all
the parties to the action or proceeding.

Sec. 546. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass!
any right, until it has been examined and approved by the
court, which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance,

and recorded with it.

Sec. 547. It shall be sufficient for the conveyance to be
signed by the commissioner only, without affixing the names
of the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of the
parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance. '

Sec. 548. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office
in which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been
made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.

See. 549. In case of a judgment to compel a party to execute a conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce the
judgment by attachment or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner to make the conveyance.’

ARTICLE XXVII.

Appeal in Civil Actions.

See. 550. ‘Writs of error are hereby abolished. Appeals
may be taken from the courts of common p eas and the circuit
courts, to the supreme court, by either party, from all final
judgments, except in actions originating before a justice of the
peace, or mayor of a city, where the amount in controversy,
exclusive of interest and costs, does not exceed ten dollars.
The party obtaining judgment shall not take an appeal after
receivin any money paid or collected thereon.

Sec. 51. A part of several co-parties may appeal, but in
such case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all the
other co-parties, and file the proof thereof with the clerk of
the supreme court. Unless they appear, and decline to join,
they shall be regarded as having joined, and shall be liable
for their due proportion of the costs. If they decline to
join, their names may be struck out, on motion, and they
shall not take an appeal afterwards, nor shall they derive any
benefit from the appeal, unless from the necessity of the
case, except persons under legal disabilities.

Sec. 552. In case of the death of any or all the parties
to a judgment before an appeal is taken, an appeal may be
taken by, and notice of an appeal served upon, the persons
in whose favor, and against whom, the action might have
been revived, if death had occurred before judgment.

Sec. 553. The death of any or all the parties shall not
cause the proceedings to abate; but the names of the proper
persons being substituted, upon consent or upon notice, the
cause may proceed.

. Sec. 554. If a female, who is a party to a judgment,

marry, and an appeal be pending, or afterwards taken, the
husband must be notified and joined as appellant or appellee.

Sec. 555. When an appeal is taken during the term atl

which the judgment is rendered, it shall operate as a stay of
all further proceedings on the judgment, upon an appeal
Bond being filed by the appellant, payable to the appellee,
with condition that he will duly prosecute his appeal, and
abide by and pay the judgment and costs which may be
rendered, or affirmed against him, with such penalty and
surety as the court shall approve; to be filed within such
time .as the court shall direct, and the transcript shall be filed
in the office of the clerk of the supreme court within sixty
days after filing the bond.

Sec. 556. After the close of the term at which the judg-.

ment is rendered, an appeal may be taken by the service of a
notice in writing on the adverse party or his attorney, and
also on the clerk of the court in which the proceedings were
had, stating the appeal from the judgment, or some specific
part thereof; or such appeals may be taken by procuring
from the clerk of the court a transcript of the record, and
proceeding in the suit, or so much thereof as is embraced in
the appeal, and. filing the same in the oiiice of the clerk of
the supreme court, who shall indorse thereon the time of
filing, and issue a notice of the appeal to the appellee.

Sec. 557. Whenever it shall appear to the supreme court,:
by satisfactory proof, that the appellee, in a cause appealedi

after the close of the term, is not a resident of this State,
and that a notice of the appeal cannot be served upon the
attorney of record in the court below, the court may order
that notice of the pendency of the appeal be given in
some newspaper printed and published in this State, for three
weeks successively; after which the court shall proceed -in
all respects as if the defendant had been served with process.

See. 558. Upon the request of the appellant, or upon
being served with notice as aforesaid, and in either case upon
the payment of the proper fee, the clerk shall forthwith
make out and deliver to the party, at his request, or transmit
to the clerk of the supreme court a transcript of the record
in the cause‘, or so much thereof as the appellant, in writing
directs, certified and sealed, to which shall be appended the

written directions of the appellant above contemplated, if

any.

Sec. 559. All proper entries made by the clerk, and all
papers pertaining to a cause, and filed therein, (except a
summons for the defendant, where all the persons named in
it have appeared to the action, and summons for witnesses,
depositions, and other papers which are used as mere evidence) are to be deemed parts of the record; but a transcript
of motions, affidavits, and other papers, when they relate to
collateral matters, and depositions, and papers filed as mere

evidence, shall not be certified, unless made a part of the
record by exception, or order of court, and directed to be
certified by the appellant. Neither shall the clerk certify
any pleading first filed, when there is an amended pleading
of thesame matter subsequently filed, embracing all the
pleading first filed, and the amendments thereto; but shall
certify such amended pleading only. Every paper and pleading above excepted, may be made part of the record by
exce tions, or order of the court, on motion. If thecclerk
shoud certify matter not material to the determination of
the appeal, the supreme court may direct the person blameable therefore to pay the costs thereof.

Snc. 560. Every appeal shall stand for trial at the first

term of the supreme court after filin the transcript, when

taken during the term of the court be ow. And in all other
cases when notice has been served ten days, or publication
made thirty days before the first day of the term.

Sec. 561. Appeals, in all cases hereafter tried, must be
taken within three years from the time the judgment is rendered; in all cases heretofore tried, must be taken within
three years from the time this act takes effect; but the time
allowed the appellant by the pre-existing law, shall not be
enlarged. Where the appellant is under legal disabilities at
the time the judgment is rendered, he may have his appeal
at any time within three years after the disability is removed.

Sec. 562. The supreme court, upon being satisfied that

the statute of limitations has barred a part only of the appellants, may strike their names from the record, and proceed
to affirm, or reverse, or modify the judgments, as to those
appellants only who are before the court.

Sec. 563. An appeal taken after the close of the term,
shall not stay execution, or other proceedings in the court
below, unless an order to that effect be granted by the
supreme court in term, or by any judge thereof in term or
vacation, which shall be indorsed on the transcript. The
court or judge shall, at the time of making the order, direct
that the appellant give bond to the appellee, with condition
that he will duly prosecute his appeal, and abide by and pay
the judgment and all costs which may be rendered or affirmed against him. '

See. 564. The appeal bond and surety may be approved
by the clerk of the supreme court, or by the clerk of the
court below. And upon the filing of the bond, execution and
all other proceedings on the judgment in the court below, shall
be stayed; and if execution has issued, the clerk shall notify
the sheriff of the appeal and order to stay proceedings, and

the execution shall be forthwith returned, and any levy made
shall be relinquished.

Sec. 565. Whenever an order to stay execution of a«
judgment is granted, the clerk of the supreme court shall}
issue a certified copy thereof to the clerk of the court below.

Sec. 566. Such order shall operate until the determina-;
tion of the appeal, provided the appeal is determined in three}
years, but shall not ‘continue in force more than three years
from the granting thereof, nor shall there be a second order
to stay the proceedings; but the proper party in the court

below may have execution upon the judgment without further delay, unless the appeal has been determined, and other
order made in the supreme court.

Sec. 567. Executors, administrators and guardians mayi
have an appeal and stay of proceedings in the court below,}
without giving an appeal bond.

Sec. 568. No pleadings shall be required in the supreme‘
court upon an appeal but a specific assignment of all errors}
relied upon, to be entered on the transcript in matters of
law only, which shall be assigned on or before the first day
of the term at which the cause stands for trial; and the
appellee shall file his answer thereto.

Sec. 569. The supreme court may reverse or affirm the;
judgment below, in whole or in part, and remand the cause‘
to the court below; but the court shall not reverse the pro-.
ceedings any further than to include the first error. If the
court afiirm the judgment after an order of stay of execution has been granted, damages may be assessed in favor of
the appellee, not exceedin ten per cent. upon the judgment,
and the court shall reman such cause for execution.

Sec. 570. When the judgment is reversed, in whole or in]
part, the supreme court shall remand the cause to the court‘
below, with instructions for a new trial, when the justice of
the case requires it; but if no new trial is required, with particular instructions relative to the judgment to be rendered,
and all modifications thereof.

Sec. 571. When any cause is determined in the supreme:
court, the clerk shall forthwith notify the clerk of the court
below, that it is determined,and whether reversedor afiirmed,
in_whole or in part, or dismissed; at any time within sixty
days after such determination, either party may file a petition
for a re-hearing; if not o filed, the decision and instructions
of the supreme court shall be. certified to the court below,
unless otherwise ordered by the court.

Sec. 572. If the death of any or all of the parties occur,:
or any female being a party marries, after the submission of '
a cause, judgment shall be rendered as at the term at which‘
the submission was made,without any change of parties.

Sec. 573. When the judgment is afiirmed in whole, the:
appellee shall recover costs; and when the judgment is

reversed ‘in whole, the appellant shall recover costs in the

supreme court and the court below, to the time of the first

error for which the judgment is reversed, which shall be
pointed out in the opinion of the supreme court. In all other
cases costs shall be awarded as the court may deem right,
following, as nearly as possible, the general regulation for
awarding costs.. .

SEC. 574. The fee paid for procuring the transcript, the
costs of serving notice of the appeal, and the printer’s fee for
publication, are a part of the costs of the supreme court.

Sac. 5'75. Whenever, on hearing an appeal, the judges of
the supreme court are equally divided in opinion, the cause
shall be continued to the next term, and if then the judges be
still equally divided, the judgment shall be affirmed without
costs; in such case each judge shall give his written opinion of
each point in the case arising upon the record, which shall
be reported among the cases decided by the supreme court.

Sn ;. 576. Appeals to the supreme court may be taken
from an interlocutory order of any court of common pleas, or
circuit court, or judge thereof, in the following cases:

First. For the payment of money; to compel the execution of any instrument of writing, or the delivery or assignment of any securities, evidences of debt, documents, or things
in action.

Second. For the delivery of possession_of real property,
or the sale thereof. \

Third. Granting or dissolving, or overruling motions to
dissolve, an injunction in term, and granting an injunction in
vacation.

Fourth. Orders and judgments upon writs of habeas
corpus, made in term or vacation. .

Sec. 577. Such appeal may be taken at the term of the
court at which the order is made; or when made in vacation,
the appeal may be taken at the time, or during the next term;
the appeal shall not be granted until the appellant has filed
an appeal bond, as in other cases of appeal.

See. 578. ‘Such appeal shall not stay proceedings upon the
order more than thirty days, unless the supreme court in term,
or some judge thereof in term or vacation, shall otherwise
order. .

Sec. 579. Executions issued from the supreme court, shall
be the same as those of other courts of record; and shall be
returnable at such common return day as the court shall direct.

Sec. 580. No judgment shall he stayed or reversed, in
whole or in part, by the supreme court for any defect in form,
variance or imperfections, contained in the record, pleadings,
process, entries, returns, or other proceedings therein, which
by law might be amended’ by the court below; but such defects

the next sitting of the court, and such corrections being made
therein as shall be necessary and right, and shall be signed by
the chief judge of the court.

Sec. 584. The clerk shall docket all appeals in the order
in which the transcripts are filed, and they shall be heard in
the same order, unless the court, for good cause shown, direct
a different mode of hearing.

Sec. 585. Any appellate court shall have full power to
compel any inferior court, board, or oliicer exercising judicial
functions, or other person, to certify to such court a full and
complete transcript of the records and proceedin s of any
such tribunal, board, oiiicer or person, and the procfuction of
any paper, whenever it shall be necessary for the proper determination of any‘ cause or proceeding pendin before the
appellate court. he breach of any order mayie punished
as a contempt. '

ARTICLE XXVIII.

Proceedings to review Judgments.

Sec. 586. Any person who is a party to any judgment, or
the heirs, devisees or personal representatives of a deceased;
party, may file in the court where such judgment is rendered,
a complaint for a review of the proceedings and judgment at
any time within three years next after the rendition thereof.
Any person under legal disabilities, may file such complaint at
any time within three years after the disability is removed.
But no complaint shall be filed for a review of a judgment of
divorce. * ' .

Sec. 587. The complaint may be filed for any error of law 1
appearing in the proceedings and judgment, or for material
new matter, discovered since the rendition thereof, or for both
causes, without leave of court. Sec. 588. When the complaint for a review is filed for;
new matter discovered since the rendition of the judgment, it

shall be verified by the complainant, and show that the new

matter could not have been discovered before jud ent by
reasonable diligence; and that the complaint is fileguwithout
delay after the discovery. 9

' Sec. 589.‘ At any time after filing the complaint, and before
the final hearing, the court may, upon application of the
plaintifff, stay all further proceedings on the judgment. When
proceedings are stayed, the court shall direct bond and surety
to be given as in cases of appeal.

Size. 590. The defendant shall be notified of the filing of
such complaint, and the parties shall proceed to form issues
of law and fact as in other cases. p .

SEC. 591. Upon the hearing, the court may reverse or
affirm the judgment, in whole or in part, or modify the same,
as the justice of the case may require, and award costs
according to the rule prescribed for the awarding of costs in
the supreme court, on appeal.

 

ACTIONS IN PARTICULAR CASES.

ARTICLE XXIX.

To recover the possession of real property, and to 
con_/iicting claims thereto. _ s

, Sec. 592. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in
"real property, and a right to the possession thereof,’ may
recover the same by action to be brought against the tenant
in possession; if there is no such tenant, then against the
person claimin the title, or some interest therein.

Sec. 593. V%’henever it appears that the defendant is only
a tenant, the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice
thereof being iven. '

, SEC. 594. hen the defendant is a non-resident, service
may be had upon his agent for the property residing in the
State, with the like effect as though made upon the principal,
or service may be had by ublication, as in other cases.

SEC. 595. The plainti in his complaint shall state that he
is entitled to the possession of the premises, particularly
describing them, the interest he claims therein, and that the
defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession.

Sec. 596. The answer of the defendant must set forth
under what claim of right (if any) he holds possession; and

if as mere tenant, the name and residence of his landlord must
be given; and if he does not defend for the whole premises,
he shall specify for what particular part he does defend.

- Sec. 597. Where the defendant makes defense, it shall
not be necessary to prove him in possession of the premises.

Sec. 598. The plaintifff cannot recover for the use and]
occupation of the premises for more than six years next
before the commencement of the action. .

Sec. 599. If the interest of the plaintifff expire before the;
time in which he could be put in possession, he shall obtain al
judgment for damages only. .

SEC. 600. Where there are two or more plaintifffs ordefendants, any one or more of the plaintifffs may recoveri
against one or more of the defendants, the premises or any
part thereof, or any interest therein, or damages according
to the right of the parties; but the recovery shall not be for
a greater interest than that claimed.

SEC. 601. The court rendering the judgment, at any time
within one year thereaQer, upon the application of the party:
against whom judgment is rendered, his heirs or assigns or
representatives, and upon the payment of all costs, and of
the damages, if the court so direct, shall vacate the judgment
and grant a new trial. The court shall grant but one trial,
unless for good cause shown. ° '

Sec. 602. If the application for anew trial is made after
the close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, the
party obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite party
ten days’ notice thereof before the term at which the action
stands for trial.

See. 603. The result of the new trial, if application
therefore is made after the close of the term at which the
judgment is rendered, shall in no case affect the interest of
third persons, acquired in good faith for avaluable consideration since the former trial.

SEC. 604. But the party who, on such new trial, shows
himself entitled to the lands which have thus passed to the
hands of a purchaser, in good" faith, may recover the proper
amount of damages against the other party either_in the
same or in subsequent actions.

Sec. 605. In an action against a tenant. the judgment
shall be conclusive evidence against the landlord. who has
received notice as hereinbefore provided.

Sac. 606. The plaintifff must recover on the strength of
his own title.‘

See. 607. The court, on motion, and after notice to the
opposite party, may for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party appl ing therefore to enter upon the property
in controversy, an make survey and admeasurement thereof
for the purposes of the action. a

Sec. 608. Theorder must describe the property, and a
copy thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the occupancy and control of the land.

Sec. 609. When the plaintifff in an action of this nature
is entitled to damages for withholding or using or injuring his
property, the defendant may set off the value of any permanent improvements made thereon, to the extent of such
damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the law for
the beneht of occupyin claimantsst

Sec. 610. In case 0% wanton aggression on the part of a
defendant, the jury may award exemplary damages.

Sec. 611. An action may be brou ht by any person either
in or out of possession, or by one h ving an interest in remainder or reversion, against another who claims title to, or
interest in, real property adverse to him, although the defendant may not be in possession thereof, for the purpose of
determining and quieting the question of title.

See. 612. The rules above prescribed shall in such cases be
observed as far as they are applicable.

Sec. 613. If in such cases the defendant disclaim in his
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the defendant
shall recover costs.

Sec. 614. In an action by a tenant in common or joint
tenant of real property, against his co-tenant, the plaintifff
must show, in addition to his evidence of right, that the

ARTICLE XXX.
Occupying Claimants.

Sec. 615. When an occupant of land has color of title
thereto, and in good faith has made valuable improvements
thereon and is afterwards in the proper action found not to be
the rightful owner thereof, no execution shall issue to put the
piaintiff in possession of the property after filing the complaint hereinafter mentioned, until the provisions of this
chapter [article] are complied with.‘

See. 616. The complaint must set forth the grounds on
which the defendant seeks relief, statin , among other things,
as accurately as racticable, the value 0% the improvements on
the lands, as wel as the value of the lands aside from the
improvements.

SEC. 617. All issues joined thereon shall be tried as in
other cases, and the court or jury trying the cause shall
assess:

First. The value of all lasting improvements made aforesaid on the lands in question, previous to the commencement
of the action for the recovery of the land.

Second. The damages, if any,which the premises may have
sustained by waste or cultivation to the time of rendering
judigment.

_ lzird. The fair value of the rents and profits which may
have accrued without the improvements, to the time of rendering judgment.

Fourth. The value of the estate which the successful claimant has in the premises, without the improvements.

Sec. 618. The plaintifff in the main action may thereupon

-pay the appraised value of the improvements, deducting the

value of the rents and profits, and the damages sustained, as
assessed on the trial, and take the property.

See. 619. Should he fail to do this, after a reasonable
time, to be fixed by the court, the defendant may take the
property upon paying the appraised value of the land, aside
from the improvements.

Snc. 620. If this be not done within a reasonable time, to
be fixed by the court, the parties will be held to be tenants in
common of all the lands, including the improvements, each

holding an interest proportionate to the value of his property
as ascertained by the appraisement above contemplated.

Sec. 621. The purchaser in good faith at any judicial or
tax sale, made by the proper person or officer, has color of ‘
title within the meaning of this chapter [article,£| whether such
person or officer had sufficient authority to sel or not, unless
the want of authority was known to the purchaser at the time
of the sale. And the rights of the purchaser shall pass to his
assignees or representatives.‘

Sec. 622. Any occupant of land who can show a connect-,
ed title in law or equit , derived from the records of any
public office, or who holds the same by purchase or descent
from any person claiming title derived as aforesaid, or by
deed duly recorded, has color of title within the meaning of
this chapter [article.]

Sec. 623. The occupying claimant may recover the value
of lasting improvements made by the party under whom he
claims, as well as of those made by himself; and any person
holding the premises as a purchaser, by an agreement in writing from the party having color of title, shall be entitled to
this remedy.

Sec. 624. The plaintifff shall be entitled to an execution
for the possession of his property, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter [article,] but not otherwise.

Sac. 625. Whenever any land sold by an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff or commissioner of court, is afterwards recovered in the proper action by any person originally liable, or in whose hands the land would be liable to

pay the demand or judgment for which, or for whose benefit
the land was sold, or any one claiming under such person, the
plaintifff shall not be entitled to the possession of the land until he has refunded the purchase-money, with interest, deducting therefrom the value of the use, rents and profits, and injury done by waste and cultivation, to be assessed under the
provisions of this act.

ARTICLE XXXI.
Partition qf real estate.

Sec. 626. Actions may be brought for the partition of
lands, tenements and hereditaments, held or possessed by
joint tenants, or tenants in common, in all cases; and the
pleadings and practice in such actions shall conform to the
_ provisions of this act.‘ '

ARTICLE XXXII.
For Waste.

SEC. 627. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of
‘waste, shall be subjects of action as other wrongs in which
there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate
of the party offending, and eviction from the premises. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor
of the person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in
possession when the injury to the estate in reversion shall
be adjudged in the action to be equal to the value of the

tenant’s estate, or unexpired term, or to have been done in
malice.‘|'

ARTICLE XXXIV.

Foreclosure of Mortgages.

Sec. 631. When default is made in the performance of
any condition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or his
assigns, may proceed in the court of common pleas or circuit
court of the county where the land lies, to foreclose the
equity of redemption contained in the mortgage.

Sec. 632. When there is no express agreement in the
mortgage, nor any separate instrument given for the payment of the sum secured thereby, the remedy of the mortgagee shall be confined to the property mortgaged.

Sec. 633. In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the
court shall order the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof
as may be necessary, to be sold to satisfy the mortgage and
costs of the action. The payment of the mortgage-debt
with interest and costs at any time before sale, shall satisfy
the judgment. ° ‘

Sac. 634. When there is an express written agreement
for the payment of _ the sum of money secured, contained in
the mortgage, or any separate instrument, the court shall
direct in the order of sale that the balance due on the mortgage and costs which may remain unsatisfiedafter the sale of
the mortgaged premises, shall be levied of any property of
the mort age-debtor.

Sec. 6 5. A copy of the order of sale, and judgment
shall be issued and certified by the clerk, under the seal of
the court, to the sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell
the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, interest and costs, as upon execution, and if any part of the judgment, interest and costs
remain unsatisfied, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy
the residue of the other property of the defendant.

Sec. 636. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his
mortgage while he is prosecuting any other action for the
same debt or matter which is secured by the mortgage, or
while he is seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in
such other action"; nor shall he prosecute any other action
for the same matter, while he is foreclosing his mortgage, or
prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure.‘

Sec. 637. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any
interest, or instalment of the principal, and there are other
instalments not due, if the defendant pay into court the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before final

judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed; if such payment
be made after final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be
stayed, subject to be enforced upon a subsequent default in
the payment of any instalment of the principal, or interest
thereafter becoming due. In the final judgment, the court
shall direct at what time and upon what default any subsequent execution shall issue.

Sec. 638. In such cases after final judgment the court
shall ascertain whether the property can be sold in parcels,j
and if it can be done without injury to the interest of the
parties, the court shall direct so much only of the premises
to be sold as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on
the mortgage, with costs, and the judgment shall remain and
be enforced upon any subsequent default, unless the amount
due shall be paid before execution of the judgment is perfected.

Sac. 639. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold in»
parcels, the court shall order the whole to be sold, and the‘
proceeds of the sale shall be applied, first to the payment of
the principal due, interest and costs, and then to the residue
secured by the mortgage and not due; and if the residue do
not bear interest, a deduction shall be made therefrom by
discounting the legal interest. And in all cases Where the
proceeds of sale shall be more than sufficient to pay the

V “amount due and costs, the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage-debtor, his heirs or assigns. a

See. 640. Whenever an execution shall issue upon. a.

Judgment recovered for a debt secured by mortgage of real
property, the plaintifff shall indorse thereon a brief description of the mortgaged premises, and the equity of redemption shall in no case be sold on such execution.‘

ARTICLE XXXV.

Proceedings to enforce Judgments against joint debtors and the
real estate of deceased Judgment Defendants.

Size. 641. When a jud ment shall be recovered against
one or more persons joint y indebted upon contract as provided in section 41, those who were not originally summoned
to answer the complaint ma be summoned to show cause
why they should not be boun by the judgment in the same
manner as if they had been originally summoned.

Sec. 642., In case of the death of an judgment-debtor,
the heirs, devisees or le atees of such de tor or the tenant
of real property, owne by him and affected by the judgment, and the personal representatives of the decedent, may,
after the expiration of one year from the time of granting
letters testamentary, or of administration upon the estate of
the decedent, be summoned to show cause why the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the judgment-debtor, in their hands respectively.

Sec. 643. The judgment-creditor, his representatives or
attorney, shall file an affidavit that the judgment has not
been satisfied, to his knowledge, or information and belief
and shall specify the amount due thereon, and the property

sought to be charged.
Sec. 644. The summons shall describe the judgment, and

require the person summoned to show cause, on the first day
of the next term of the court, and shall be issued, served
and returned in like manner as a summons in an original

action.
See. 645. The party summoned, after the summons has

been served ten days before the first day of any term of the
court, may answer, denying the judgment, or setting up any
defense which may have arisen subsequently, or suffer a
default; and in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against
according to section 641, he may make the same defense
which he might have originally made to the action and no

other. .
Sec. 646. The party issuing the summons ‘may demur or

reply to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to
the reply, and the pleadings shall be verified in like cases and
manner as in an action, and issues may be tried, and judgment rendered and enforced by execution.

ARTICLE XXX$I.

Toen/'orce Mechanics’ liens on Buildings.

Sac. 647. Mechanics, and all persons performing labor,‘
or furnishing materials for the construction or repair of any!
building, or who may ‘htve furnished any engine or other

machinery for any mill, distillery or other manufactory may
have a lien separately or jointly upon the building which they
may have constructed or repaired, or upon any buildings, mill,
distillery‘, or other manufactory for which they may have
furnished materials of any description and on the interest of
the owner in the lot or land on which it stands, to the extent
of the value-of any labor done or materials furnished, or
for both.‘ _ «

Sec. 648. The provisions of this act shall only extend to
work done‘ or materials furnished on new buildings, or to a
contract entered into with the owner of any building for
repairs, or to the engine or other machinefy furnished
for any mill, distillery or other manufactory, unless furnished to the owner of the land on which the same may
be situate, and not to any contract made with the tenant, except onlv to the extent of his interest. .

Sec. 649. Any sub-contractor, journeyman or laborer
employed in the construction or repair or furnishin materials for any buildin , may give to the owner thereo notice in
writing, particulasy setting forth the amount of his claim,
and service rendered for which his employer is indebted to
him, and that he holds the owner responsible for the same;
and the owner shall be liable for such claim, but not to exceed the amount due from him to the employer at the time
of notice, which may be recovered in an action.

See‘. 650. Any person wishing to acquire such lien upon
any property, whether his claim be due or not, shall file in
the recorder's office of the county, within sixty days after
the_completion of the building or repairs, notice of his intention to hold a lein upon such roperty for the amount of his
claim, specifically setting fort the amount claimed, and the
recorder shall record the notice when presented, in a book
to be kept for that purpose, for which he shall receive twentyfive cents. T

Sac. 651. Any person having such lien, may enforce the
same by filing his complaint in the circuit court or court of

common pleas of the county where the work was done, or
tilaterials l'Ltmisl1c.tl at any time Within one year from the
completion ofthe work or furnishing the materials; or, if a
credit be given, 1'1-out the expiration’ of the credit.

S1-:<:. (3523. in sttch actions, all persons whose liens are
TCCC)l'{l.8{.l, as }l£yI'1.(l-ill provided, may be made parties, and issues
shall he n]d.(.iB up,:1ml trials had, as in other cases; and the court
tnrty, by the _lLillI1_fl'IlL‘-[ll., direct :1 sale of the land and building
for the sati-_~:1i':u-.ti:_m of the liens and costs: such sale to be
without ])]'L'f"jl_ltilt1't3 to the rights of any pri01' encumbrancer,
owue1' 01‘ other PL‘.I'.'*'.<0I1S not parties to the action. If several
sucll actions be l.)1‘I')l_lghi. by different claimants, and be pendillg at the same time, the court may order them to be consolidated.

b5:«:c. (353. If the proceeds of the sale be insutiicient to pay:
all the clztimants, then the court shall order them to be paid
in proportion to the amount due each. ‘

Sec. 654. In all proceedings commenced under this chap-‘
ter [article] the defendant may file a written undertaking,
with surety, to be approved by the court, to the effect that
he will pay the judgments that may be recovered, and costs,
and’ thereby release his property from the liens hereby

created.

ARTICLE XXXVII: ,
To enforce liens on boats and other water crajts.

Sec. 655. All boats, vessels, and water crafts of every?
description, found in the waters of this State are liable:

First. For all debts contracted by the master, owner,
agent, clerk or consignee thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of the same,——on account of work done or
services rendered for the same, by boatmen or mariners, or
any other persons, or on account of work done or materials
furnished in building, re airing, fitting out, furnishing or
equipping such boat vesse or water craft. .

Second. For all demands or damages arising out of ‘any

contract of aifrieghtment, or any wilfu or neg igent act of
the master, owner or agent thereof, done in connection with

the business of such boat, vessel or water craft, or any contract relative to the transportation of persons or property,
entered into by the master, owner, agent, clerk or consignee

thereof.
Third. For all injuries to persons or property by such

boat, vessel or water craft, or by the officers or crew, done in
connection with the business of the same.-”"

Snc. 656. Claims growing out of the above causes, are
liens upon the boat, vessel or water craft, their apparel,
tackle, furniture and appendages, including barges and lighters, belonging to the owners of the boat, vessel or water
craft, and used therewith at the time the action is commenced.

Sac. 657. Such liens shall take preference of any claims
against the boat itself, or all or any of its owners, masters,
or consignees, growing out of any other causes than those
above enumerated; and as between themselves, mariners
and boatmens’ wages shall be first preferred.

See. 658. Any person aggrieved, may have an action,
against such boat, vessel or water craft, in the county where
the same may be found, or the owners thereof, to enforce
any such lien; and if the complaint in such action shows the
particulars of the demand, the amount due, and a demand
made upon the owner, master, clerk or eonsi nee thereof,
and refusal of payment, and verified by the a davit of the
plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, an order of attachment
shall be issued by the clerk against the boat, vessel, or other
water craft, and the tackle and furniture thereof, which shall
be directed, executed and returned as an order of attachment
in other cases.

SEC. 659. In all actions contemplated in the foregoing section,
all or any of the persons having demands of the description
therein mentioned, may join in a complaint against such boat
or vessel, either at the commencement of the action, or at
any time afterwards, before judgment upon filing the requisite complaint and affidavit.

Snc. 660. In such actions, proceedings shall be had, judgment rendered and enforced by execution, or other proper
means. .

Sec. 661. If the defendant, or master, owner or consignee. shall, before final judgment, give a written undertaking payable to the plaintifff, with surety to be approved by the
clerk or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant will perform

the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be discharged
and restitution made of the boat or vessel. ,

Sac.  In cases arising under section 655, the summons may be served upon the officer or consignee making the
contract; if they cannot be found, upon the clerk, or if he
cannot be found, upon any other officer of the boat, vessel,
or water craft, or any person having charge thereof; if that
cannot be done, by affixing a copy of the summons in some
conspicuous place in the boat or vessel.

Snc. 663. The action may be brought before any justice
of the peace in the county where the boat, vessel, or other
water craft is found, when the amount claimed is within his
jurisdiction, and in such actions justices of the peace shall
have the powers and perform the duties prescribed for clerks
and courts, and constables shall have the powers and perform

' the duties of sheriffs.

ARTICLE XXXVIII.
Ne Erceat.

Sec. 664. Actions may be commenced upon any agreement in writing, before the time for the performance of the
contract expires,_ when the plaintifff or his agent -shall make
and file an affidavit with the clerk of the proper court, that the
defendant is about to leave the State without performing or
making provisions for the performance of the contract, taking
with him property, monies, credits or effects, subject to execution, with intent to defraud the plaintifff.

Sec. 665. Upon such affidavit being filed, the clerk shall
issue an order of arrest and hail, directed to the sherifl',f
which shall be issued, served and returned, in all respects, as
such orders in other cases; before such order shall issue, the
plaintifff shall file in the office of the clerk, a written undertaking, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the clerk, to
the effect that the plaintifff will pay the defendant such damages and costs as he shall wrongfully sustain by occasion of
the suit.

Sec. 666. The sheriff shall require the defendant to enter
into a recognizance of special bail, with sufficient surety,
personally to appear on the first day of the court, at its next_
term and abide the order of court, and in default thereof, the
defendant shall be committed to prison until discharged in
due course of law; such special bail shall be liable for the
principal, and shall have a ri ht to arrest and deliver him up
as in other cases, and the defendant may give other bail.

Sec. 667. Instead of giving special bail, as above provided,
the defendant shall be entitled to his discharge from custody,

if he will secure the performance of the contract to the satisfaction of the laintitf.

Sec. 668. This proceeding may be had in favor of any
surety, or other person jointly bound with the defendant; it
may also be prosecuted by the person in whose favor the
contract exists, against any one or more of the persons bound
thereby, upon filing such affidavit. When the co-contractors
are non-residents, or probably insolvent, or, at the request of
any one of them, when they are residents and solvent.

, Size. 669. The defendant may have the same remedy by
writ of habeas corpus as in other cases of arrest and bail.

Sec. (570. The proceedings may be had before justices of
the peace in all cases within their jurisdiction.

Sac. 671. The affidavit and written undertakin may be
filed, and proceedings had in anycounty where the defendant
may be found.

. ARTICLE XXXIX.
Remedies of Sureties against their Principals.

Sec. 672. Any person bound as surety upon any contract
in writing for the payment of money, or the performance of
any act, when the right of action has accrued, may require,
by notice in writing, the creditor or obligee forthwith to institute an action upon the contract.

Sec. 673. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a reasonable time to bring his action upon such contract,
and prosecute the same to judgment and execution, the surety
shall be discharged from all liability thereon. .

Sec. 674. When any action is brought against two or
more defendants upon a contract, any one or more of the defendants being surety for the others. the surety may, upon a
written comp aim to the court, cause the question of suretyship to be tried and determined, upon the issue made by the
parties, at the trial of ‘the cause, or at any time before or after the trial, or at a subsequent term; but such proceedings
shall not affect the proceedings of the plaintifff.

. Sec. 675. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the
surety, the court shall make an order directing the sheriff to
_levy the execution first upon and exhaust the property of the
principal, before a levy shall be made upon the property of
the surety; and the clerk shall indorse a memorandum of the
order on the execution.
I See. 676. When any defendant-surety in a judgment or
;special bail or replevin-bail, or surety in a delivery-bond or
replevin-bond, or any person being surety in any undertaking
whatever, has been or shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part thereof, or shall make any payment which
is applied upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship,
or when any sheriff or other oliicer, or any surety upon his
official bond, shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any
part thereof, by reason of any default of such officer, except
for failing to pay over money collected, or for Wasting property levied on, the judgment shall not be discharged by such
payment, but shall remain in force for the use of the bail,
surety, officer, or other person making such payment, and
after the plaintifff is paid, so much of the jud mentas remains
unsatisfied may be prosecuted to execution or his use.‘

Size. 677. Any one of several judgment-defendants, and.
any one of several replevin-bail, havin paid and satisfied the:
plaintifff shall have the remedy providged in the last section
against the co-defendants or co-sureties, to collect of them
the rateable proportion each is equitably bound to pay.

Size. 678. No surety or his representatives shall confess,
judgment, or suffer judgment by default, in any case where}
he is notified that there is a valid defense, if the principal will‘
enter himself defendant to the action, and tender to the
surety or his representative good security to indemnify him,
to be approved by the court.

Sec. 679. Whenever any person seeks a remedy against;
another, for whom he has discharged a debt, or claim upon;

contract in whole or in part, made payable without any relief
from valuation or appraisement laws, for which he was bound
as surety or otherwise, the remedy of such person shall also
be enforced without any relief irom such laws.

Size. 680. The foregoing provisions of this chapter [article] shall extend to heirs, executors and administrators of deceased persons; but the provisions of the 672d section shall not
operate against persons under legal disabilities.

ARTICLE XL.
Against Foreign Corporations.

Sec. 681. Actions may be brought against a corporation

created by or under the laws of any other State, government

or country, in any court having jurisdiction of the amount
demanded by any person having a cause of action in any
county within the State, where any property, monies,
predits or effects belonging or due to the corporation may be
ound.

Special Proceedings.

Snc. 682. The party procuring a special proceeding, shall
be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the

defendant.
ARTICLE XLI.

Assessment of Damages.

Sec‘. 683. The writ heretofore known as the writ of ad
qod damnum, shall hereafter be known as the writ of assessment of damages.

Snc. 684. A writ of assessment of damages may be had
by application to the circuit court or court of common pleas
of the county where the damages to be assessed may be occasioned, under the regulations and in the cases following:

First. By any person owning the land on one side of a
Water course upon which he desires to erect a mill or other
machinery to be propelled by water, to authorize him to take
and assess the value of a portion of land on the opposite
bank, not exceeding one acre belonging to another person
whereon to abut a dam to be erected across the water
course.

Second. To take and assess the value of such portion of
the land in a like case, upon which a mill dam has been abutted
with the consent of the owner. a

Third. To assess the probable amount of damages to the
lands, creek or spring of another, or the improvements thereon, by the overflow of water or otherwise, which may be
occasioned by any mill dam already erected, or proposed to
be erected.

Fourth. To assess the damages which may be occasioned
to any person by thewaters of any river, creek or spring
becoming stagnant by means of any mill dam already erected
or proposed to be erected.

Fzfth. To authorize the removal of obstructions in the
race and water course below any mill, and assess the damages to be occasioned thereby, if any. _

Sixth. To determine the height to which any person
about to build, or having built a dam may raise the same at
any time, without causing back water to flow upon any other
mill works situated above on the same water course.

Seventh. To authorize any person being owner of a dam
across any water course, or having a right to build such
dam, for the purpose of propelling a mill or other machinery
by water, upon his own land situated below the dam, where
there is intermediate land of another person, to make arace,
excavation or embankment, through such intermediate land.

Eighth. To authorize any person to divert water at his
own dam, or upon his own land, from the bed of any water
course in which any other person has an interest, for the purpose of using the water in propelling machinery upon the
land of the person diverting it.

Ninth. To authorize any person injured in any manner
by a mill dam already built, to have the damages assessed or
the dam declared a nuisance, as the case may require.

Snc. 685. The plaintifff shall particularly describe the 10cality of his mill and dam, also, the lands upon which he desires
the damages to be assessed, the object contemplated as the
case may require, and the full name and residence of any
person legally interested, or in whose favor damages may be
assessed, and make them defendants.

Sec. 686. The jury shall consist of disinterested freeholders, not less than six, nor more than twelve,‘the number
to be fixed by the court; but no person owning land adjoining
that upon which the damages are to be assessed, or upon
which the mill may be situated, shall serve as juror.

Size. 687. Upon the application being made, the court‘
may order the clerk to issue a writ, reciting the material part}
of the application, and directing the sheriff to impannel a
jury to meet upon the land described in the application, on a
day to be fixed by the sheriff, who shall give to the plaintifff
and defendant ten days’ notice, if they reside within the
State; if not, then to their agent or attorney, if any reside

in the county; if not, then notice may be given by publication, as in case of non-residents. ’

Sec. 688. When the jury are impanneled and sworn,
having met at the place designated, they shall be charged by
the sheriff as to each duty required of them; and they shall
to the best of their skill and judgment, and according to the
exilgency of the case when required,’

irst. View and assess at its true value the land proposed
for an abutment, and set off the same, not exceeding one
acre, by metes and bounds. ’ '

Second. Examine the lands above and below the dam, the
property of the defendants described in the writ, and report
whether the lands, mansion house, gardens, or any improvements or appurtenances thereto belonging, will be overflowed
or otherwise injured, and assess the amount of damages, if any.

Third. They shall inquire whether the navigation of the
stream will be obstructed, and the health of the neighborhood
annoyed or injured, and if so by what means the obstructions, annoyance and injury can be prevented.

Fourth. Whether such proposed mill or machinery will be
of ‘public utility.

Fzfth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by
constructing a race, excavation or embankment through the
intermediate lands of another.

Sixth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by
diverting the water from the bed of a water course.

Seventh. Assess any other damages that may be sustained
by any defendant.

Sec. 689. When any of the parties to be aifected by the
application, are infants, they shall appear by a guardian appointed by the court.

Size. 690. The sheriff shall, when the court so directs,
employ the county surveyor, or some other competent surveyor, to assist the jury in determining any height, distance
or quantity of land, or any other fact necessary- to be determined by the jury.

Sac. 691. Either party may challenge jurors, and compel
the attendance of witnesses to testify as to any matters to be

determined upon by the jury, in like manner as in the trial of
civil actions.

Sec. 692. Either party may attend and point out to the!
jury the place where the mill and dam are to be situated,—'
the high water and low water marks, and the local extent
of the su posed injury to tne land. '

Sac. 683. The jury shall in all cases inspect the localities
described in the writ.

Sec. 694. If, from any cause the inquest cannot be held}
on the day fixed, the sheriff may adjourn to, or fix any subsequent day, previous to the -return day; and the inquest
maybe adjourned from day to day, or to a future day, previous to the return day, when necessary.

See. 695. The inquest shall be signed by the jurors, and?
forthwith returned by the sheriff to the office of the clerk of
the court.

Size. 696. The sheriff shall show in his return the service
of the notice required, and no personshall be bound by the
proceedings, unless named in the writ and notified.

Sec. 697. Any defendant may appear and traverse any
material fact therein stated in the inquest, or he may plead
or show any valid matter in bar of the right of the plaintifff
to have the benefit of such writ, and issues, of law and of
fact may be made up and tried, and the court may adjudge
costs therein, and proceedings had as in other actions.

Sec. 698. The court may render judgment and issue execution for any amount of damages assessed by the jury against
any such person owning or wishing to build any mi 1 or mill
dam, in favor of the party entitled to damages, if desired by
the party thus entitled.

Sec. 699. If it shall appear on the inquest or other evidence, that any mill curtilage or garden of any person will
be, or has been, overfiowed or injured, or the health of the
neighborhood annoyed, the court shall not give leave to build
the mill dam, but if none of those injuries have accrued, nor
will likely accrue, the court may allow the application, if
otherwise proper.

Sec. 700. In case of an application by any person, after
having erected his mill dam, no damages shall be allowed,
and the application shall be dismissed, unless the case be such,
that leave would have been given to build a mill, if the application had been filed before the erection of the mill dam.‘

Snc. 701. Water shall not be diverted from the bed of

any water course, by the authority of this act, to the injury
of any mill or machinery already erected, or in the pimcess of
erection.

Size. 702. The plaintifff shall not be invested with any
rights under these proceedings until he pays or tenders the
damages assessed, which must be done within one year after
the assessment is confirmed, and not afterwards. On payment being made, he shall be seized in fee simple, of the land
appropriated for abutting a dam, or for a race, excavation or
embankment. If he fails to complete the mill and dam, or
race, excavation or embankment, within three years after the

inquest is confirmed, or to put the same in repair fit for use,‘

within two years after being destroyed or injuuad, such land
shall revert to its original owner, his heirs or assigns. If, at
the time of destruction or injury, the owner is under legal
disabilities, he may repair the premises within two years alter
the disability is removed.‘

Sec. 703. Any assessment of damages confirmed by the
court, and paid within a year after confirmation, shall bar a

recovery for the same in any other action. '

Snc. 704. Where the water, backed up by any mill dam,
is about to break the banks of the stream, so as to turn the
water thereof out of its ordinary channel, whereby such mill
or machinery will be injured, the owner or occupier thereof,
if he do not own such banks, or the lands lying contiguous,
may, if necessary, enter thereon, and erect and keep in repair such embankments and other works as shall be requisite
to prevent such injury, committing no unnecessary waste or
damage. But the owner of the bank may recover the actual dama es sustained.

Snc. 05. If any person shall injure, destroy or remove
any_such embankment or other works, the owner or occupier

of the mill or machinery may recover of such person all damages which he may sustain by reason of such injury, destruction or removal.

Sec. 706. When any person, corporation, or company,~
design to construct a canal, or railroad, or turnpike, graded,}
McAdamized, or plank road, or bridge, or establish a ferry,
as a work of public utility, although for private profit, being
authorized by law to take real property therefore, such person,
corporation or company, may have a writ of assessment of
damages. T

Sec. 707. Such person, corporation, or company, may file.
an application for a writ in the circuit court, or court of com-‘.
mon pleas, or in vacation in the office of the clerk thereof, setting forth the precise description of the real estate desired to
be taken, the, names of the persons interested therein, making
them defendants, and the purposes to which the same is to be
converted, and refer to the law which authorizes the taking
of the property. The clerk shall thereupon issue to the sheriii‘, a writ of assessment of damages, reciting therein the material part of the application, and direct the sheriff to assess
the damages by a jury.

Sec. 708. The court, upon the application, or the clerk in.
vacation, shall determine the number of jurors at not less
than six nor more than twelve, who shall be disinterested
free-holders, not owning land within one mile of any part of
the public way, for which the land is taken.

_ Sec. 709. The sheriff shall proceed to hold the inquest,
and his proceedings thereon, and the rights of the parties,
and the persons interested, and the duty of the jurors, and
their proceedings, shall be in all respects according to the
provisions of this, chapter [article,] as far as the same are
applicable.

Sec. 710. Any person having an interest in any land
which has been or may be taken for any such public work,
may have the benefit of this writ upon his own application,
made as above provided, upon which like proceedings shall be
had as in case of applications made by the corporation, company, or person prosecuting the work.

See. 711. In estimatin any damages under this chapter
[article], no deduction sha§ be made for any benefit that may
be supposed to result to the owner, from the contemplated
work.

Sec. 712. The sheriff shall administer the proper oaths to
the jurors, surveyor and witnesses, in all cases contemplated by
this chapter [article.]

Sac. 713. Costs shall be awarded in all these cases, as in
civil actions.

ARTICLE XLII.
Habeas Corpus.

Sac. 714. Every person restrained of his liberty, under
any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of lcabeas corpus
to inquire into the cause of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom when illegal.

Sec. 715. Application for the writ shall be made by complaint, signed and verified either by the plaintifff, or by some
person in his behalf, and shall specify, '

First. By whom the person in whose behalf the writ is
applied for is restrained of his liberty; and the place where;
naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing them
if they are not known;

Second. The cause or pretense of the restraint, according
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the applicant;

o Third. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what
the illegality consists.""

Sac. 716. Writs of Izabeas corpus may be granted, by the
supreme court, circuit court, or court of common pleas,uor by
any judge of either court, whether in term or vacation, and
upon application the writ shall be granted without delay. SEC. 717. The writ shall be directed to the officer or
party having the person under restraint, commanding him to
have such person before the court or judge, at such time and
place as the court or judge shall direct, to do and receive
what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and
there the writ.

Sec. 718. If the writ be directed to the sheriff it shall be
delivered by the clerk to him without delay.

» Sec. 719. If the writ be directed to any other person, it
shall be delivered to the sheriff, and shall be h him served by
delivering the same to such person without de ay.

SEC. 720. If the person to whom such writ is directed:
cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the
same may be served by leaving it at the residence of the person to whom it is directed, or by affixing the same on some
conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house or where the
party is confined or under restraint.

Sec. 721. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ is
directed, shall make immediate return thereof, and ifhe refuse
after due service to make return, the court shall enforce obedience by attachment.

Snc. 722. The return must be signed and verified by the;
person making it, who shall state, '

First. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party
in his custody.

Second. If the authority be in writing, he shall return a
cop and produce the original on the hearing.

hird. If he has had the party in his custody or under
his restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall
state to whom, the time, place and cause of the transfer. o He
shall produce the party on the hearing, u'nless prevented by
sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the return.

Sec. 723. The court or judge if‘ satisfied of the truth of I
the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to decide
on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the
party can be produced; or for other good cause. The plaintifff may except to the sufiiciency of, or controvert the return
or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in avoidance;
the new matter shall be verified, except in cases of commitment on a criminal charge; the return and pleadings may
be amended without causing any delay.

Sec. 724. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed in
a summary way to hear and determine the cause; and if no

_ legal cause be shown for the restraint, or for the continuation

thereof, shall discharge the party.

Sec. 725. No court or judge shall inquire into the legality of any judgment or process, whereby the party is in custody, or discharge him when the term of commitment has
not expired in either of the cases following: aFirst. Upon process issued by any court or judge of
the United States, where the court or judge has exclusive

jurisdiction; or,

Second. Upon any process issued on any final judgment
of a court of competent jurisdiction; or,

Third. For any contempt of any court, officer, or body
having authority to commit; but an order of commitment
as for a contempt, upon proceedings to force the remedy of
a party is not included in any of the foregoing specifications.

Fourth. Upon a warrant issued from the circuit court or
court of common pleas, upon an indictment or information.

, Sec. 726. N 0 person shall be discharged from an order of

commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for want
of bail or in cases not bailable, on account of any defect in
the charge or process, or for alleged want of probable cause;
but in all such cases the court or judge shall summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, and discharge, let to bail, or recommit the prisoner, as may be just
and legal, and recognize witnesses when proper.

Sec. 727. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting
a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions.

Sec. 728. When any person has an interest in the detention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person
having such interest is notified. ’

Sec. 729. The éourt or judge shall have power to require
and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other

acts necessary to determine the case.
See. 730. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a

civil action for obeying any writ of habeas cmyms or order of
discharge made thereon.

SEC. 731. Whenever it shall appear by aHidavit’that any
.one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is
good reason to believe that such person will be carried out of
the jurisdiction of the court or judge before whom the application is made, or will suffer some irreparable injury before
compliance with the writ can be enforced, such court or judge
may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting the facts and
directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to take the person thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before the court or judge, to
be dealt with according to law.

See. 732. The court or judge may also, if the same be
deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for the
apprehension of the person charged with causing the illegal
restraint. '

Sec. 733. The oliicer shall execute the writ by bringing
the person therein named before the court or judge, and the
like return and proceedings shall be required and had as in
case of writs of habeas corpus. ’

Sec. 734. The court or judge may make any temporary
orders in the cause or disposition of the party, during the
progress of the proceedings, that justice may require. The

custody of any party restrained may be changed from one
person to another by order of the court or judge.

Sec. 735. Any writ or process authorized by this chapter:
[article] may be issued and served, in cases of emergency,
on Sunday. .

Sec. 736. All writs and other process, authorized by the
provisions of this chapter [article] shall be issued by the;
clerk of the court, and, except summonses, sealed with the
seal of such court; and shall be served and returned forthwith unless the court or judge shall specify a particular time
for any such return. And no writ or other process shall be
disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is shown to
notify the officer or person of the purport of the process.
Amendments may be allowed, and temporary commitments,
when necessary.

Snc. 737. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in favor}
of parents, guardians, masters and husbands; and to enforce
the rights, and for the protection of infants and insane persons; and the proceeding shall in all such cases, conform to the
provisions of this statute. '

ARTICLE XLIII.
Mandate and Prohibition.

Sec. 738. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue:
from the supreme and circuit courts and courts of common‘
pleas of this State; but such writs shall issue from the supreme
court only when necessary for the exercise of its functions
and powers.‘

SEC. 739. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior‘
tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins; or, a
duty resulting from an ofllce, trust or station.

Sec. 740. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit andi
motion, and shall be attested and sealed and made returnable}
as the court shall direct; and the person, body or tribunal to‘
whom the same shall be directed and delivered, shall make

return, and for neglect to do so, shall he proceeded against
as for a contempt.

Sac. 741. The first writ shall be in the alternative or
peremptory, as the court shall direct. A

Sn-c. 742. Whenever a return shall be made to any such
writ, -issues of law and fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues and rendering
judgment as in civil actions. S150. 743. In case a verdict shall be found for the plaintifff
where the writ is in the alternative, or if judgment be given
for him, he shall recover damages as in an action for a false
return, against the party making the return, and a peremptory
writ shall be granted without delay.

Snc. 744. The court shall have the same power to enlarge
the time of making a return, and pleading to such writ, and

for filing any subsequent pleadings, and to continue such
cause as in civil actions.

Size. 745. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by
attachment and fine, or im risonment, or both.

SEC. 746. The writ o prohibition shall command the
court and party to whom it shall be directed to refrain from
any further proceedings in the‘ matter therein specified, until
the return of the writ and the further order of the court
thereon; and u on the return, to show cause why they shall
not be absolute y restrained from any further proceedings in
the matter.

Size. 747. The court shall render judgment, either that
a prohibition absolute, restraining the court and party from
proceeding in the matter, do issue; or authorizing the court
and party to proceed in the matter in question.

Sec. 748. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings as
in civil actions.

ARTICLE XLIV.

Informations.

. Sac. 749.- An information may be filed against any person or corporation in the following cases:

First. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise any public office, or any franchise
within this State, or any office in any corporation created by
the authority of this State.

Second. Whenever any public officer shall have done or
suffered any act which, by the provisions of law shall work
a forfeiture of his office.

Third. Where any association or number of persons shall
act within this State as a corporation, without being legally
incorporated.

Fourth. Or where any corporation do or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of their rights and

privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise powers ngt
conferred by law.‘

Sec. 750. The information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney in the circuit court of the proper county upon
his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to do
so, or shall be directed by the court or other competent
authority; or by any other person on his own relation,
whenever he claims an interest in the office, franchise or corporation, which is the subject of the information.

SEC. 751. The information shall consist of a plain state-.
ment of the facts which constitute the grounds of the pro-'
ceeding addressed to the court.

Sec. 752. Whenever an information shall be filed againsti
a person for usurping an office, by the prosecuting attorney,‘
he shall also set forth therein the name Qf the person rightfully entitled to the office, with an averment of his right
thereto; and when filed by any other person, he shall show
his interest in the matter, and he may claim the damages he
has sustained. .

Sec. 753. Whenever an information is filed, a summons:
shall issue thereon, which shall be served and returned as in
other actions. The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer
default, and subsequent proceedings be had as in other cases.

See. 754. In every case contesting the right to an office“
judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties,:
and for the damages the relator may show himself entitled to,
if any, to the time of the judgment.

Sec. 755. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relator,;
he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office after‘
he has been qualified as required by law; and the court shall
order the defendant to deliver over all the books and papers
in his custody or within his power, belonging to the office
from which he shall have been ousted.

Sac. 756. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to de-.
liver over the books and papers, pursuant to the order, the
court or judge thereof shall enforce the order by attachment
and imprisonment.

Size. 757. When the judgment is rendered in favor of the:
plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the information, have his action for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment. '

Sec. 758. When several persons claim to be entitled to;
the same office or franchise, one information may be filed‘
against any or all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to the office or franchise.

Sec. 759. Whenever any defendant shall be found guilty.
of any usurpation of, or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any office, or any franchise within this State, or any
oilice in any corporation created by the authority of this
State, or when any public officer, ‘thus charged, shall be found
guilty of having done or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office; or when

any association or number of persons shall be found guilty of

having acted as a corporation, without having been legally
incorporated, the court shall give judgment of ouster against
the defendant, and exclude him from the oilice, franchise or
corporate rights; and in cases of corporations, that the same
sha 1 be dissolved, and the court shall adjudge, costs in favor
of the plaintifff.

Sec. 760. If judgment be rendered against any corpora‘tion, or against any persons claiming to be a corporation, the

court may cause the costs to be collected by execution against
the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment
against the directors or other officers of the corporation, and
shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and effects, take an account, and make a distribution
thereof among the creditors; the prosecuting attorney shall
immediately institute proceedings for that purpose.

Snc. 761. Whenever any property shall escheat, or be
forfeited to the State for its use, the legal title shall be deemed to be in the State from the time of the escheat or forfeiture; and an information may be filed by the prosecuting
attorney in the circuit court or the recovery of the property,
alleging the ground on w ich the recovery is claimed; and
like proceedings and judgment shall be had, as in a civil
action for the recovery of property. .

Sec. 762. When an information is filed by the prosecuting attorney, he shall not be liable for costs; but when it is
filed upon the relation of a private person, he shall be liable
for costs, unless the same are adjudged against ‘the defendant.

Snc. 763. An information may be prosecuted for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters atent, certificate
or deed granted by the proper authorities of’ this State, when
there is reason to beleive that the same were obtained by
fraud or through mistake or ignorance of a material fact, or
when the patentee or those claiming under him, have done
or omitted an act in violation of the terms on which the
letters,deed or certificates were granted, or have by any other
means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.

Sac. 764. In such cases the information may be filed by
the prosecuting attorney, upon his relation, or by any private
person upon his relation, showing his interest in the subjectmatter, and the subsequent roceeding, judgment of the court,
and awarding of costs shall) conform to the above provisions,
and such letters patent, deed or certificate, shall be annulled
or sustained according to the right of the case.

ATTORNEYS, AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

ARTICLE XLV.
Attorneys.

SEC. 765. A civil action may be prosecuted or defended
by a party in person or by attorney, except that a corporation appears by attorney in all cases.

Sec.‘ 766. Every person of good moral character, being a
voter, on application shall be admitted to practice law in all
the courts of justice. Moral character maybe proved by any
evidence satisfactory to the court.

Sec. 767. Whenever any person has been admitted to
practice law in a court of record in any county, he shall be
entitled to receive from the clerk a certificate of admission,
which shall authorize him to practice law in all the courts of
this State; but any: court may, at any time, inquire into and
determine for itself the moral character of any person
practicing or offering to practice law in such court.

Sec. 768.‘ -Any court may permit an attorney who is not
a resident of this State to practice law therein, during any
term of such court, upon his taking an oath for the faithful
dischar e of his duties.

Sec. 69. Every person, before proceeding to discharge
the duties of an attorney, shall take an oath to .support the
Constitution of the United States, and of this State, and that
he will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of an
attorney at law, which oath shall be entered in the order book
of the court. Sec. 770. At each term of the court, the clerk shall fur-;
nish the court with a list of the names of all the attorneys
having business in such court.

Sec. 771. It shall be the duty of an attorney, :

First. To support the Constitution and laws of the United‘
States, and of this State.

Second. To maintain the respect that is due to the courts of
justice and judicial oilicers.

Third. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings
or defenses, only, as appear to him legal and just; but this

section shall not be construed to prevent the defense of a
person char ed with a crime, in any case. ‘

Fourth. o employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means, only, as are consistent
with truth, and never seek to mislead the court or jury by
any artifice or false statement of fact or law.

Fzfth. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every
peril to himself, to preserve the secrets of - his client.

Sixth. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a
party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause
with which he is charged.

Seventh. 1\[ot to encourage either the commencement or
the continuance of an action or proceeding from any motive
of passion or interest.

Eighth. Never to reject, from any consideration personal
to himself, the cause of the defenseless or op ressed.

Size. 772. An attorney has authority, unti discharged or
superseded by another,

First. To bind his client in an action or special proceeding, by his agreement, filed with the clerk, or entered upon
the minutes of the court, and not otherwise.

Second. To receive money claimed by his client in an
action or special proceeding, during the pendency thereof or
afterwards; and upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim, or acknowledge satisfaction of
the judgment."“

Sec.’ 773. N o judgment shall be rendered against any
party upon the agreement of an attorney, nor any judgment
by default, where the party has not been notified, or personally entered his appearance, unless the written authority of
the party be first produced, and its execution proved to the
satisfaction of the court.

Sac. 774. The court or judge may, on motion of either
party and on showing reasonable ground therefore, or without such motion, require an attorney to produce and prove
the authority under which he appears; and until he does so
may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for
whom he assumes to appear.

Sec. 775. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attor-‘
ney appears, that he does so without authority, the court may]
at any stage of the proceedings, relieve such party from the’
consequences of the attorney’s act. It may, also, summarily
upon motion, compel the attorney to repair the injury consequent upon his assumption of authority.

Sec. 776. An attorney who is guilty of deceit or collu-‘
sion, or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a court or‘
judge, or a party to an action or judicial roceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor, and shall also ljclrfeit to the party
injured, treble damages, recoverable in a civil action.

See. 777. Any court of record may suspend an attorney
from practicing therein for any of the following causes: W

First. When he has been convicted of a felony, or of a
misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude, in either of which

.cases the record of conviction is conclusive evidence.

Second. When he is guilty of a willful disobedience or vio_ lation of the order of court, requiring him to do or forbear

an act connected with, or in course of his profession.

Third. For a willful violation of any of the duties of an
attorney, as hereinbefore prescribed. ""

Sec. 778. When an attorney, on request, refuses to deliver over money or papers to a person from whom, or for.
whom he has received them, in the course of his professional
employment, whether in an action or not, he may be required,
after reasonable notice, on motion of any party aggrieved,
by an order of the court in which an action, if any, was
prosecuted, or if no action was prosecuted, then by the order

of any court of record, to do so, within a specified time, or
show cause why he should not be punished for contempt.‘
Sm. 779. In cases contemplated in the last preceding section, on such motion, or in an action brought by the party
aggrieved, the court may suspend the attorney from practice

in any of the courts of this State, for any length of time, in ,

its discretion; judgment may also be rendered for the amount
of money withheld, deducting.fees, if any are due, and costs
paid by the attorney, with ten per cent. damages, which may
be enforced by execution, without the benefit of stay or appraisement laws, and returnable within thirty days. The court
may also render any judgment, and make any order respecting papers or property withheld, that may be necessary to
enforce the right of the party aggrieved, subject to any liens
the attorney may have thereon for fees. Sec. 780. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney may be commenced by the direction of the court, or
on motion of an individual. In the former case, the court .

must direct some attorney to draw up and prosecute the accusation; in the latter case it may be drawn up by any person,
and- sworn to by the person making it‘. Such accusation may
be filed in any court in which the attorney practices, and after
five days’ notice of the filing, the attorney shall be bound to
appear and plead to the same, or suffer judgment by default.
If he appear, pleadings may be filed and trial had as in other
cases.

Sec. 781. In proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney, a judgment of acquittal shall be final and without appeal.
But from a judgment of suspension or removal, or any other
judgment against an attorney, the accused may appeal to the
supreme court, in the same manner as from a judgment in a
civil action. A motion may be made at any time to reinstate
an attorney who has been suspended or removed.

ARTICLE ‘XLVI.
Causes of action that survive.

Sec. 782. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the
person, dies with the person of either party, except in cases

in which an action is given for an injury causing the death of
any person, and actions for seduction and false imprisonment.

Sec. 783. All other causes of action survive, and may bee
brought by or against the representatives of the deceased‘
party, except actions for promises to marry. ’

Sec. 784. When the death of one is caused by the wrong- ful act or omission of another, the personal representatives?
of the former may maintain an action therefore against the!
latter, if the former might have maintained an action had he
lived, against the latter for an injury for the same act or omission. he action must be commenced within two years.
The damages cannot exceed five thousand dollars, and must
inure to the exclusive benefit of the widow and children, if
any, or next of kin, to be distributed in the same manner as
personal property of the deceased.

ARTICLE XLVII.
Miscellaneous Provisions.

Sec. 785. Pleadin s sworn to by either party in any case
shall not on the trial e deemed proof of the facts alleged‘
therein, nor require other or greater proof on the part of the
adverse [party] than those not sworn to.

Sec. 786. When a new party is introduced into an action
as a representative or successor of a former party, such new
party is entitled to the same notice, to be given in the same
manner as required for defendants in the commencement of
an action.

See. 787. The time within which an act is to be done, as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day
and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall be
excluded.

Sec. 788. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery,
or whoredom, falsly made by any person against a female;
also, words falsely spoken of any person, charging such person with incest, or the infamous crime a ainst nature, either
with mankind or the brute creation, shal be actionable in the
same manner as in the case of slanderous words charging a
crime, the commission of which would subject the offender
to death, or other degrading penalties.’

Snc. 789. Every court and officer authorized to take any‘

bail or surety, shall have power to examine on oath the person offering to become such bail or surety, concerning his

property, and sufiiciency as such bail or surety. . .
Sec. 790. No ofiicial bond entered into by any oHicer, nor

any bond, recognizance or written undertaking taken by any

officer in the discharge of the duties of his office, shall be void
for want of form or substance, or recital, or condition, nor the
principal or surety be dischar d; but the principal and surety shall be bound by such ond, recognizance or written
undertaking, to the full extent contemplated by the law
requiring the same, and the sureties to the amount specified
in the bond or recognizance. In all actions on a defective
bond, recognizance or Written undertaking, the plaintifff or
relator may suggest the defect in his complaint, and recover
to the same extent as if such bond, recognizance or written
undertaking were perfect in all respects.

Sec. 791. In any action brought for the recovery of the»

purchase-money against any person holding a contract for
the purchase of lands, the party bound to perform the contract, if not plaintifff, may be made a party, and the court,
in the final judgment, may order the interest of the purchaser to be sold, or transferred to the plaintifff upon such
terms as may be just; and may also order a specific performARTICLE XLVIII.
Rules of Construction and repeal of Statutes.

' Sec. 797. In the construction of this act, the following,

rules shall be observed, when consistent with the context: ‘
The word “sl:erz_'f” means the sheriff of the county, or:

any other person authorized to perform his duties in any case.

The word “cleric ” means the clerk of the court, or any.
person authorized to perform his duties in any case.

Thelphrase “of unsound mind,” includes idiots, non-com-4
potes, unatics, and distracted persons. '

The word “oath,” includes the word aliirmation; and thee
phrase “to swear,” includes to afiirm.

The word “person,” extends to bodies politic and corporate.1

The phrase “under legal dz'sabz'hties,” includes married W0-1
men persons within the age of twenty-one years or of un-'
soun,d mind, or imprisoned, or out of the United étates.

The word “bond,” as used in this act, does not necessarily:
imply a seal; but in other respects means the same kind of
instruments as heretofore.

The word “land,” and the phrases “real estate,” and “real
property,” include lands, tenements and hereditaments. 1

dhe phrafsed ‘gpersoziialh property,” includes goods, chattels,
evi ences o e t, an t in s in action. 3

The word “property,” inc udes personal and real property.;

The word “judgment,” means all final orders, decrees and.
determinations in an action; also, all orders upon which executions may issue.

The phrase “money demands on contract,” when used in
reference to an action, means any action arising-out of contract, where the relief demanded is a recovery of money.

The word “attorney,” includes a counsellor, and every other
person authorized to appear and represent a party in an action or special proceeding, in any stage thereof. The word “verified,” when applied to pleadings, means
supported by oath or affirmation.

Sec. 798. Words importing the singular number only,
may also be applied to the plural of persons and things; and
words importing the masculine gender only, may be extended to females a so. _

Sec. 799. In actions already commenced, _the pleadings
to be had to form issues,_ the manner of procuring testimony,
the examination of parties, the trial and rendition of Judgment, and all other proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act, as far as practicable.

Size. 800. The provisions of this act shall be liberally

construed, and shall not‘ be limited by any rules of strict
construction.

Sec. 801. No part of this act shall be retroactive, unless
expressly so declared.

Sac. 802. All laws inconsistent with the provisions of this
act, are hereby repealed; but the repeal shall not operate to
revive any former act. The laws and usages of this State
relative to pleadings and practice in civil actions and proceedings, not inconsistent herewith, and as far as the same may
operate in aid hereof, or to supply any omitted case, are
hereby continued in force.

Sec. 803. All rights of action secured by existing laws,
may be prosecuted in the manner provided in this act. "“

CHAPTER 2.

AN ACT to establish Courts of Conciliation; to prescribe rules and proceedings therein, and compensation of Judges thereof.

[APPROVED JUNE 11, 1852.]
SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the

State qf Indiana, That courts of conciliation are vested with _

jurisdiction of claims and controversies submitted to them for

the purpose of effecting a compromise, or for determination
in the cases, and in the manner prescribed in this act.

Sec. ‘2. A court of conciliation may be held in each of the
counties in this State by the judge of the court of common
pleas, on any judicial day, and wherever the judge may happen to be within his judicial district.

Size. 3. Any person claiming to have a cause of action

against another for libel, slander, malicious prosecution,

assault and battery, or false imprisonment, may serve on him
a written notice, briefly stating the alleged cause of action,

and requiring him to appear in relation thereto, before the
court of conciliation of the county where the notice is
served, at a place and time therein stated, not less than five
days from the time of service.

See. 4. The notice may be served by the sheriff, or any
other person, in the same manner as a summons in a civil
action.

See. 5. At the time specified in the notice, or at such
other time as the hearing may be adjourned to by the court,
the parties appearing must be received by the judge, apart

-his record,‘ to either party on request.

from all other persons, except that an infant must be attended
by a guardian, and a female by her husband, or friend; and
thereupon it is the duty of the judge to hear the allegations
and explanations of the parties, to inform them of their respective rights, to endeavor to reconcile their differences, and
advise such a compromise of the claim or controversy as he
may deem just.

Sec. 6. If a reconciliation be had, a memorandum thereof 1
stating the nature of the controversy, or alleged cause of
action, the appearance of the parties, and the fact of the reconciliation, without specifying the terms thereof, unless it be
agreed by the parties to specify them, must be entered in a
book of record, to be kept by the judge, and signed by the
respective parties. The reconciliation thus effected is the
final determination of the matter in controversy, and is a bar
to an action by either party in respect thereto.

Sec. 7. - If the parties agree to a judgment, in favor of one;
against the other in settlement of their differences, the judge
may enter the judgment at the foot of the entry of reconciliation. A transcript of such judgment certified by the judge
may be filed in the office of the clerk of the court of common
pleas, and shall thereupon have the same effect and be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment of the court.

Sec. 8. If, after the service of the notice prescribed in:
section 3, either party fail to appear, or if the parties appear- '
ing, be not reconciled as mentioned in sections 6 and 7, or do
not enter into the submission and agreement mentioned in
section 14, it is the duty of the judge to make an entry in his
book of record, stating in a summary manner the nature of
the charge, the notice given, the proof of service thereof, the
failure to appear of either party, or the appearance of the
parties and their failure to be reconciled.

Sec. 9. The entries in such book of record, or certified
copies thereof, signed by the judge, are evidence of the facts
therein stated; and _it is the duty of the judge to give a
transcript of the entries in any case, certified by him, from

5

Sec. 10. In any action hereafter brought for the recovery
of damages for a cause of action mentioned in section 3,
except when the defendant is arrested, the plaintifff cannot

' recover costs unless he produce at the trial the certified copy

mentioned in section 9, and unless it thereby appear that the
notice was duly served, and that he appeared pursuant thereto, or that both parties appeared without notice. The defendant cannot recover costs in such action, when it appears that,

after" service of the notice, he failed to appear pursuant
thereto.

Sec. 11. When any cause of action is claimed or alleged
‘by or against any person, for which a civil action might be

brought, or when a controversy exists between two or more
persons, arising out of such alleged cause of action, the parties may appear, for the purpose of effecting a compromise,
or of having a determination of all or of any of such claims
or controversies before the court of conciliation, at any place
within the county‘ in which either party resides.

I Sac. 12. Upon the appearance of the parties for the purpose of effecting a compromise as provided in the last preceding sect.ion, the court must receive them as prescribed in
section 5, and require them respectively to state the nature
of the controversy between them, and present such claim as
either may allege against the other. The statement may be
made by either or both of the parties, either _in writing or
verbally.

Sec. 13. In the cases mentioned in the last preceding
sections, if a reconciliation be had, a memorandum shall be
entered by the judge, and with like effect as prescribed in
section 6; judgment _may also be entered and transcript
thereof filed in the manner and to the effect prescribed above.

Sec. 14. If, instead of a reconciliation, the terms of which
are settled between the parties, they voluntarily submit their
matters in difference to the court, and agree to abide the
judgment, such submission and agreement must be entered in
the book of record and signed by the respective parties; and
on ‘the hearing the court may take the statements of’ the parties, with or without oa‘th; but if either party be examined
on oath, as to any matter, the adverse party must be examined on oath as to the same matter. The judgment of the
court, made in any cause thus submitted, shall have the same
effect, and may be enforced in the same manner as the judgment mentioned in section 7.

Sec. 15. In the cases mentioned in the last preceding section, the jud e shall be entitled to a fee of five dollars, to be
paid one-hal by each party. ,

Sec. 16. When a reconciliation is effected between parties
in any case under the provisions of this act, the judge
of the court of conciliation shall be entitled to receive a fee
of five dollars, one-half‘ to be paid by each party.

Sec. 17. When a reconciliation is not effected, no fee
whatever can be received by the judge for any services
rendered. .

Sec. 18. A court of conciliation must determine every
controversy submitted to it for determination, according to
conscience and right without regard to technical rules.

Sec. 19. -All fees paid to the judge by the parties under
the provisions of this act belong to him as an addition to his

stated salary as judge of the court of common pleas, and
may be collected by fee bill. The judge shall not receive any
other compensation from the parties or any other person,
directly or indirectly.

Sec. 20. No party to any admission or declaration, made.
before the court of conciliation, is bound thereby, or respon-‘

sible therefore, in any other judicial proceeding whatever,
except as provided in this act.

CHAPTER 3.

AN ACT relative to Arbitmtions and Umpiragee.
[Arrnovnn FEBRUARY 3, 1852.]

Be it enacted by the General Assembl of the State of Indi-‘
ana: SECTION 1. All persons, except inllmts, married women,Z
and insane persons, may, by an instrument in writing, subm-it
to the arbitration or umpirage of any person or persons, to be
by them mutually chosen, any controversy existing between
them, which might be the subject of a suit at law, except as
otherwise provided in the next section, and may agree that

such submission be made a rule of any court of record designated in such instrument.’

Sec. 6. Such oath, and the oaths to witnesses, may be ad-j
ministered by any person authorized to administer oaths. 2

Sec. 7. Witnesses may be required to attend before arbi-trators, on behalf of either party, by subpoenas issued by any
justice of the peace, in the same manner, and subject to the
same process and penalties for disobedience, to be enforced by
such justice as in trials before justices of the peace.‘

Sec. 8. As soon as the arbitrator or arbitrators are ready;
to proceed to business, the parties may exhibit their proofs; all‘
the arbitrators must meet together and hear the allegations of
the parties, but the award of a majority is valid, unless otherwise required by the submissions!" ,

Sec. 9. The award shall be in writing, and signed b the.
arbitrator or arbitrators who agree thereto, and shal be '
attested by a subscribing witness.1
. Sec. 10. The fees of the justice issuing process, and of:
the witnesses in such case, shall be the same as allowed before
justices of the peace, and shall be ascertained and estimated bv
the arbitrators, and returned with the award, including therein
their own fees as allowed by law§

Sec. 11. A true copy of the award, and of the costs afore-l
said, shall be‘ delivered to each of the parties, or left at his}
last usual place of residence, by any one of the arbitrators,
within fifteen days after the signing of such award.

Sec. 12. If either of the parties shall fail or refuse to com-«
ply with such award, the other party may file the same, together with the agreement of su mission, in the court named
in such submission.

Sec. 13. Upon such submission being proved by a subscrib- :
ing witness thereto, or in case of his death, insanity, or absence}
out of the State, then by proof thereof as in other cases of a
written instrument, and upon the award also being proved in
like manner, or by the arbitrators, or any of them; and upon
proof that a copy of the award has been duly served on the

court, the adverse party may show for cause against the
rendition of said judgment any of the following grounds:

First. That such award or umpirage was obtained by
fraud, corruption, partiality, or other undue means; or that
there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators
or any of them.

Second. That the arbitrator or arbitrators [was or] were
guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing uponsufhcient cause shown, or in refusing to hear evidence material and pertinent to the controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the rights of any party shall have been
prejudiced.

T/zird. That the arbitrator or arbitrators exceed his or
their powers, or that he or they so imperfectly executed
them that a mutual, final, and definite award on the subject
matter submitted was not made.‘

Sec. 17. Any party to such submission may move the:
court to modify or correct such award or umpirage in then‘
following cases: _ '

First. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures,
or an evident mistake in the description of any person, thing,
or property referred to or mentioned in such award or umpira e;

§‘econd. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall have
awarded upon some matter not submitted, and not affecting
the merits of the decision upon the matters which were submitted;

Third. When the award or umpirage shall be imperfect
in some matter of form, not affecting the controversy, and

when, if it had been a verdict, such defect could have been
properly amended or disre arded by the court."“
SEC. 18. The court shall hear the proofs and allegations of
‘the parties, to invalidate and sustain such award or umpirage,
and shall decide thereon, either confirming such award or
umpirage, or may modify and correct the same in the cases
prescribed in the last preceding section so as to effect the
intent thereof, and to promote justice between the parties,
and shall render judgment on such original or corrected
award or umpirage; or the court may vacate such award or
umpirage for any of the causes hereinbefore specified at the
cost of the parties seeking to enforce such award or umpir e.
agnc. 19., If such award or umpirage be confirmed, judgment shall be given in favor of any party to whom any sum
of money or damages shall have been awarded that he recover
the same; and if the award or umpirage shall have ordered
any act to be done by either party, judgment shall be entered
that such act be done according to such award or umpira e.
Sec. 20. The costs of the proceedin in court shal be
taxed as in suits; and if no provision for t e fees and expenses
of the arbitration shall have been made in the award or umpirage, the court shall make the allowances therefore; but if there
was a suit pending previous to such submission, the costs of
which were not noticed by the arbitrators or umpire, the
court shall not allow or tax any of the costs thereof prior to
such submissionsf
. Sec. 21. When, by any judgment of the court on award
jor umpirage, any party shall be required to perform any act
other than the payment of money, the court shall have power
to enforce the same by attachment, until the terms of such
judgment shall be complied with.
Sec. 22. If the subject matter of any suit pending in any
court, might originally have been submitted to arbitration, the
parties to such suit, their agent or attorney at law may conized Within this State, shall be absolutely void without any
legal proceedings.‘

Sec. '2. The issue of a marriage void on account of consanguinity, aflinity or difference of color, shall be deemed to
be illegitimate, and the father shall be liable to prosecution,
as in other cases of bastardy.

Sec. 3. VV hen either of the parties to a marriage void
because a former marriage exists undissolved, shall have contracted such void marriage in the reasonable belief that such
disability did not exist; the issue of such marriage begotten
before the discovery of such disability by such innocent party
shall be deemed legitimate. .

Sec. 4. For the purposes of evidence, any person or persons interested in the question of such legitimacy may file
their petition in the circuit court of any county in the State,
where either of the parties to said marriage may reside; setting forth the facts, and making defendants thereto all persons interested in such question, and giving such notice to
said defendant as is by this act required to be given to the
defendant on a petition for divorce; and the court on hearing
such petition, shall decree such issue to be legitimate or
illegitimate, as the facts may be. _ Sec. 5; Such decree shall be conclusive between the parties thereto, and those claiming under them; but any minor
defendant may have the same reviewed at any time within
one year after arriving at the age of twenty-one years.

See. 6. Divorces may be decreed by the circuit courts of
this State on petition filed by any person at the time a bona

_/Ede resident of the county in which the same is filed; of

which bonajide residence the affidavit of such petitioner shall
be prima facie evidence.1'

SE0. 7. Divorces shall be decreed upon the application of
the injured party for the following causes:

First. ‘ Adultery, except as hereinafter provided.
Second. Impotency.

Third. Abandonment for one year—or for a less period if
the court shall be satisfied that reconciliation is improbable.

Fourth. Cruel treatment of either party by the other. 4

Fifth. Habitual drunkeness of either party, or the failure}
of the husband to make reasonable provisions for his family.‘

Sixth. The conviction subsequent to the marriage in any:
country of either party of an infamous crime.

Seventh. Any other cause for which the court shall deem it proper that a divorce should be granted.‘ '

Sec. 8. Divorces shall not be granted for adultery in any:
of the following cases:

First. When the offense has been committed with the
connivance of the party seeking the divorce.

Second. When the party seeking the divorce has voluntarily cohabited with the other, with knowledge of the fact;
or has failed to file his oraher petition for two years after he
or she had discovered the same.1'

Third. When the party seeking the divorce has also been
guilty of adultery under such circumstances as would have
entitled the opposite party, if innocent, to a decree.1

Sac. 9. A petition for divorce, shall specify the causes]
therefore, with certainty to a common intent.

Sac. 10. The clerk of the court in which such petition is:
filed shall issue a summons for the defendant to appear and
answer said petition; which summons shall be personally
served on said defendant if a resident of the State, either by

reading, or leaving a copy thereof at his or her usual place of
residence.

1
1
1

\

Sno. ll. If it shall appear by the affidavit of a disinterested person or by the return of the officer to whom such
summons was directed, that the defendant is not a resident
of this State, the clerk shall give notice of the pendency.of
such petition, by publication for three successive weeks in
some weekly newspaper of general circulation, printed and
published in such county; or, if there be no such paper, then in
the one printed and published in this State nearest to the
county seat of such county.

,S1r.c. 12. The court may proceed to hear and determine
such cause whenever such summons shall have been served
fourteen days, or such publication made thirty days, before
the first day of the term. ' . _‘

Sac.» 13. The defendant shall answer said petition under
oath if required so to do by the petitioner; but no decree
shall be rendered on default without proof; nor shall any
admissions made in said answer be used as evidence in any
other case against said defendant, nor shall the denial under
oath by the defendant‘ of the facts alleged in the petition
render necessary any other or further proof by the complainant than would have been necessary if such denial had not
been under oath.*

SEC. 14. The defendant may in addition to his or her answer, file a cross petition for divorce, and the court shall in
such case decree the divorce, if any, in favor of the party
legally entitled to the same. 1'

Sac. 15. Witnesses may be examined in court, or depositions taken, at the option of the party offering the testimony.

Sec. 16. A petition for divorce may be filed by the wife in

her own name, and it shall be deemed sufficient evidence of

good character if such petitioner shall satisfy the court or jury
trying the same, that she had for two years previous to the
filing of such petition, maintained a good reputation for
chastity and virtue. ,

' Sec. 17. Pending a petition for divorce, the court, or the
judge thereof "in vacation, may make, and by attachment enforce such orders for the disposition of the persons, property
and children, of the parties as may be deemed right and proper, and such orders relative to the expenses of such suit as
will insure to the wife an eflicient preparation of her case
and a fair and impartial trial thereof, and on decreeing a
divorce in favor of the wife, or refusing one on the application
of the husband, the court shall by order, to be enforced by
attachment, require the husband to pay all reasonable expenses
of the wife in the prosecution or defense of the petition
when such divorce has been so granted or refused.

Sec. 18. A divorce granted for misconduct of the husband;
shall_entitle the wife to the same rights so far as her reall
estate is concerned, that she would have been entitled to byl
his death. "‘ '

Sec. 19. The court shall make such other decree for alimony, as the circumstances of the case, the pecuniary condition of the parties, and the amount of personal. property
received by the husband from the wife’s estate, shall render
just and proper.

Sec. 20. A divorce decreed on account of the misconduct
of the Wife, shall entitle the husband to the same rights so far
as his or her real estate is concerned, as he would have
been entitled to by her death.

Sec. 21. The court in decreeing a divorce shall make
provision for the guardianship, custody, and support and
education of the minor children of such marriage.

Sec. 22. The decree for alimony to the wife shall be for
a sum in gross, and not for annual payments; but the court
in its discretion, may give a reasonable time for the payment
thereof, by instalments, on sufficient surety being given.1'

Sec. 23. The divorce of one party shall fully dissolve the
marriage contract as to both.‘

Sec. '24. A divorce decreed in any other State by a court
having jurisdiction thereof, shall have full effect in this State.

Sec. 25. When either of the parties to a marriage shall
be incapable from want of age or understanding of contracting such marriage, the same may be declared void on application of the incapable party, by any court having jurisdiction
to decree divorces; but the children of such marriage begotten before the same is annulled shall be legitimate.*

Sec. 26. The same proceedings shall be had in such case
as is provided in applications for divorce.

Sec. 27. Wherever a petition for divorce remains undefended, it shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney to
appear and resist such petition.

“ —-4?-:1

CHAPTER 5.

AN ACT authorizing Circuit Courts to change the names of persons and corporations.

T [Krrnovnn JANUARY 21, 1852.]

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:
Sncrrozv l. The circuit courts in the several counties of this
State, may change the names of persons and corporations on
application by petition. ’

Sec. 2. The application of a person may be made to the
circuit court of the county in which such person resides, and
of a corporation to the circuit court of the county in which
such corporation is situate, or in which its principal office is
located. ‘

Sec. 3. Upon a petition being filed for such change, the
applicant shall give notice thereof by three weekly publications in some newspaper of general circulation printed and
published in the proper county, or if no newspaper be printed
therein, in a newspaper printed and published nearest thereto
in some adjoining county, thirty days prior to the first da
of the term at which such petition shall be heard. 5 s ‘

Sec. 4. Proof of the publication required in this act shall
be made by filing a copy of such published notice, verified by
the affidavit of a disinterested person, and when such proof
of such publication is made, the court shall proceed to hear
and determine said petition and make such order and decree
therein as to such court shall seem just and reasonable.

Sec. 5. A copy of the decree of such court, changing the
name of any person or corporation, certified under the seal
of such court, by the clerk thereof, shall be sufficient evidence
of the name of such person or corporation, and of such change
having been made in any court of this State.

CHAPTER 6.

AN ACT concerning‘ Mortgages!
[Arrnovan MAv 4,v1s5§.]

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly cf the:
State of Indiana, Unless a, mortgage specially provide, that}
the mortgagee shall have possession of the mortgaged premises, he shall not be entitled to the same.

Sec. 2. No mortgage shall be construed as implying a:
covenant for the payment of the sum intended to be secured,j
so as to enable the mortgagee, his assignees, or representa-5
tives, to maintain an action for the recovery of such sum;
and where there is no express covenant contained in the
mortgage for such payment, and no bond or other separate
instrument to secure such payment shall have been given, the
remedies of the mortgagee shall be confined to the lands mentioned in the mortgagelf

Sec. 3. No mortgage of real estate, or instrument opera-,
ting as, or having the legal effect of, a mortgage hereafter;
executed shall authorize the mortgagee to sell the mortgaged]
premises, but every such sale shall be made under a judicial
proceeding.

Sec. 4. A mortgage granted by a purchaser to secure:
purchase-money, shall have preference over a prior judgment]
against such purchaser. _

Sec. 5. Every mortgagee of lands whose mortgage has;
been recorded, having received full payment of the sum ori
sums of money therein specified, from the mortgagor, shall:
at the request of such mortgagor, enter satisfaction on the'
margin or other proper place in the record of such mortgage,
which shall operate as a complete release and discharge

‘thereof.

Sec. 6. Where such mortgage has been paid and satisfied
by the mortgagor, he may take a certificate thereof, duly acknowledged by the mortgagee, or his lawful agent, as herein
required for the acknowledgment of conveyances to entitle
the same to be recorded; which certificate and acknowledgment shall be recorded by the recorder in whose office such
mortgage is recorded, with a reference to the book and page
containing the record of the mortgage aforesaid; and such
recorded certificate shall forever discharge and release the
mortgagor from such mortgage, and forever bar all suits and
actions thereon.1

Sec. 7. The recording of the assignment of a mortgage
shall not be deemed, of itself, notice to a mortgagor, his heirs

or personal representatives, so as to invalidate any payment
made by them to the mortgagee, or any assignee, before actual notice of such assignment.

Sec. 8. Nothing in- this act shall affect any provisions
made by law, in relation to the foreclosure of mortgages to
the State of Indiana, so far as the same conflict with the provisions of this act.

CHAPTER 7.

AN ACT concerning Liens of Mechanics, Merchants and others._

[Am-novr-:1) MAY 20, 1852.]

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Aséenzbly of the
State qf Indiana, That whenever any person shall entrust to
any mechanic, or tradesman, materials to construct, alter, or
repair any article of value, such mechanic, or tradesman, if
the same be completed and not taken away, and his fair and
reasonable charges not paid, may, after six months from the
time such charges became due, sell the same; or, if the same
be susceptible of division,Without injury, he may sell so much
thereof, as is necessary to pay such charges; and such sale
shall be at public auction, for cash, or on reasonable credit,
taking sufficient sureties in case of a sale on time.’’‘‘

See. 2. Before such sale, such mechanic, or tradesman
shall give public notice of the time and place thereof by advertisements set up for ten days in three public places in the
city or township where‘ he resides; one of which shall be in
some conspicuous part of his shop, or place of business; or if
the value of the article be ten dollars or more, then by publishing the same three weeks successively in a newspaper in
the county, if any.

Sec. 3. The proceeds of such sale after payment of charges for construction, or repair, and for publication, and notice
aforesaid, shall, if the owner be absent, be deposited with the
treasurer of the proper county by the person making such
sale, he taking the treasurer’s receipt therefore; and shall be subject to the order of the person legally entitled thereto.

Sec. 4. The provisions of this act except those of the next
section, shall apply to all cases of personal property on which

the bailee, or keeper, has by law, a lien for any feed or care
by him bestowed on such propert ; Provided, that in cases.
where the person liable shall die before the expiration of six
months from the time s-uch charges had accrued, such sale
shall not be made until the expiration of six months from the
time of his decease.

Sec. 5. In cases embraced in the last preceding section,
if the property bailed, or kept, be horses, cattle, hogs, or:
other live stock, and in all cases embraced in this act, where:
the property is of a perishable nature, and will be greatly injured by delay, the person to whom such charges may be
due, may, after the expiration of thirty days from the time
when such charges shall have become due, proceed to dispose
of so much of such property as may be necessary, as hereinbefore provided.

Sec. 6. Additional compensation for keeping and taking
care of such property necessarily incurred, may be taken
from the proceeds of sale as part of the charges.

Sec. 7. Attested copies of the notices required by this act
and proof of the publication thereof, and an affidavit of the;
mechanic, tradesman, or bailee, or some competent witness
on his behalf, setting forth his claims, shall be filed and kept
in the clerk’s office of the proper county; and the same, or
copies thereof, attested and sealed by such clerk, shall be received as testimony, and shall be presumptive evidence of the
matters therein contained.

Sac. 8. Any forwarding and commission merchant having~a lien upon goods which may have remained in store for‘

one year or more, may proceed to advertise and sell at public auction so much thereof as may be necessary to pay the
amount of the lien, and expenses, according to the previous
provisions of this act.‘

CHAPTER 8.

AN ACT containing several provisions regarding landlords, tenants, lessors
and lessees.

[Am-novnn MAY 20, 1852.]

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the State
qf Indiana, That estates at will may be determined‘ by one
months’ notice in writing delivered to the tenant.

Sec. 2. A tenancy at will cannot arise or be created without an express contract; and all general tenancies, in which
the premises are occupied by the consent, either express or
constructive, of the landlord, shall be deemed tenancies from
year to year.

S_nc. 3. All tenancies from year to year, may be determined by at least three months’ notice given to the tenant
prior to the expiration of the year; and in all tenancies which,
by agreement of the parties, express or implied, are from one
period to another of less than three months’ duration,~a notice
equal to the interval between such periods shall be suilicientf‘

» Sale. 4. If a tenant at will, or from year to year, or for a

shorter period, neglect or refuse to pay rent when due, ten
days’ notice to quit shall determine the lease, unless such rent
be paid at the expiration of said ten days.1'

. Sec. 5. Where the time for the determination of a tenancy
is specified in the contract, or where a tenant at will commits
waste, or in the case of a tenant at sulferance, and in any
case where the relation of landlord and tenant does not exist,
no notice to quit shall be necessary.

See. 6. Notice, as required in the preceding sections, may
be served on the tenant, or, if he cannot be found, by delivering the same to some person of proper age and discretion,

residing on the premises, having first made known to such
person the contents thereof. _ _

Sec. 7. A conveyance of real estate, or of any interest:
therein, by a landlord, shall be valid without the attornment]
of the tenant. But the payment of rent by the tenant to the;
grantor, at any time before notice of sale, given to said tenant,1
shall be good against the grantee.

Sec. 8. The attornment of a tenant to a stranger, shall be.
void, and shall not affect the possession of his landlord, unless;
it be made with the consent of the landlord, or pursuant to a
judgment at law, or the order or decree of a court.

Sec. 9. Sub-lessees shall have the same remedy upon the:
original covenant against the chief landlord, as they might
have had against their immediate lessor.

Size. 10. Alienees of lessors and lessees of land, shall have,
the same legal remedies in relation to such lands, as their
principals.

Sec. 11. Rents from lands granted for life or lives may
be recovered as other rents.

Sec. 12. A person entitled to rents dependant on the life
of another, may recover arrears unpaid at the death of that
other.

Sec. 13. Executors and administrators shall have the
same remedies to recover rents, and be subject to the same
liabilities to pay them as their testator and inestates.

Sec. 14. The occupant without special contract, of any
lands, shall be liable for the rent, to any person entitled
thereto.

Sec. 15. If a joint tenant or a tenant in common, or;
tenant in co-parcenary have, by consent, management of theestate, and make with knowledge, and without objection of
his co-tenant or co-parcener, useful or necessary improvements, the co-tenant or co-parcener shall contribute ratebly
thereto. ~ ‘

Sec. 16. A joint tenant or tenant in common, or tenant‘
in co-parcenary may maintain an action against his co-tenant}
or co-parcener, or their personal representatives for receiving
more than his just proportion. ,

Sec. 17. Rents from lands are collected as other debts.

Sec. 18. A person seized of an estate in remainder or re-:
version may maintain an action for waste or trespass, for‘
injury to the inheritance, notwithstanding an intervening
estate for life or years.‘

CHAPTER '9,

AN ACT concerning the accumulation, suspension of ownership,iand joint
tenancy of Personal Property.

[Arrnovnn M43! 6, 1852.]

Sncrxon 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, That no limitation or condition shall suspend the absolute ownershi of ~personal‘property longer
than till the termination of lives in being at the time of the
execution of the instrument containing such limitation or
condition; or, if in a will, of lives in being at the death of
the testator.

Sec. 2. A provision for the accumulation of interest or
income of moneyor other personal pro'perty, by any conveyance or will, shall be void, except as follows: .

First. If the accumulation be directed to commence from
the date of the instrument, or the death of the person executing the same, it may be for the benefit of one or more
minors then in being, or in being at such death, and to terminate at the expiration of their minority.

Second. -If the accumulation be directed to commence at
any period subsequent to the death of the person executing
such instrument, it may be within the time allowed in the
first section of this act for the suspension of ownership, and
at some time during the minority of the persons for whose
benefit it is intended, and must terminate at the expiration of
their minority. But a provision for accumulation beyond the
minority of such persons‘ shall be void only as respects the
time beyond such minority.

Sec. 3. If a minor for whose benefit such accumulation
may have been directed shall be destitute of means of support or of education, the proper court may, on complaint of
such minor or of his guardian, cause a reasonable sum to be
taken from such accumulation, for his support or education,
or both.

Sec. 4. The survivor of persons hqlding personal property;
in joint tenancy, shall have the same rights only as the sur-1
vivor of tenants in common, unless otherwise expressed in‘

the instrument.
\

CHAPTER 10.

AN ACT providing for the settlement of Decedents’ Estates, prescribing the
rights, liabilities and duties of officers connected with the management
thereof, and the Heirs thereto, and certain forms to be used in such settlement.

[Arrnovnn JUNE 17, 1852.]

LETTERS TESTAMENTARY AND OF ADMINISTRATION.

I.—Letters Testamentary.

Sncrron 1. Be it enacted by the General Assemby of the
State of Indiana, That after the expiration of ten days from
the time when the existence of a will shall have been made
known and it shall have been duly admitted to probate, the
proper clerk shall issue letters testamentary thereon to the
persons named therein as executors, who shall qualify, unless:

First. Except married women, they be incapable of making
a contract;

Second. Be under the age of twenty-one years;

Third. Have been convicted of an infamous crime;

Fourth. Or shall be adjudged incompetent by reason of
improvidence, habitual drunkenness, or other incapacit .

Sec. 2. N o married woman shall be entitled to etters
testamentary, unless her husband file his consent thereto, in
writing with the proper clerk, which consent shall make him,
jointly with her, responsible for her acts in the premises.

_ Sec. 3. Every person named in the will as executor, who
shall qualify and give bond, shall be named in such letters,
and every person not thus named, shall be deemed superseded.*‘
Sec. 4. Any person who is appointed executor, who shall

rrenounce his trust in writing, filed with the clerk, or who

shall fail to qualify and give ond within twenty days after
probate of such will,shall be deemed to have renounced such

appointment,'and such letters shall issue to any other person
named in the will, capable and willing to accept such trust. "'

Snc. 5. No executor named in the will, shall interfere
with the estate entrusted to him, further than to preserve the
same, until the issuing of letters; but for that purpose be
may prosecute any suit to prevent the loss of any part
thereof.

II.—-Letter: of Administration with the Will annexed.

Snc. 6. If there be no person named in the will as executor, or if those named therein have failed to qualify, have renounced, or have been removed, letters of administration,
with the will annexed, shall be granted by the proper clerk
or court to any competent residuary legatee named in such
will, willing to accept, or if there be none willing to accept,
then to a competent specific legatee, or if there be none such
willing to accept, then to any competent person, under the
same regulations as in granting letters of administration in
case of intestacy.

III.——Letters of Administration.

Sec. 7. After the expiration of fifteen days from the death
of an intestate, the proper clerk or court having examined
the person applying for letters, and such persons as may be
deemed proper to be examined, under oath, touching the
time and place of the death of the intestate, whether he left
a will, and concerning the qualifications of such person, and
there being no such will, shall grant letters of administration
in their order: first, to the widow; second, to the next of
kin; third, to the~largest creditor residing in the State; and
fourth, if no person thus entitled to administer shall apply
within thirty days after the death of the intestate, the clerk
or court shall appoint a competent inhabitant of the county,
to whom the letters shall issue.1’

Sec. 8. Such letters shall be granted in the county; }

First. Where at his death the intestate was an inhabitant;

Second. Where, not being an inhabitant of this State, he
leaves assets; 0 T/tird. Where, not being an inhabitant and. dying out of
the State, he leaves assets;

Fourth. Where, not being an inhabitant, he dies out of the
State, not leavin assets in any county thereof, but assets of
such intestate sha l afterwards come into it;

Fzfth. But where, not being an inhabitant, he shall die
out of the State, leaving assets in several counties, or assets
of such intestate shall alter his death come into several counties, letters may be granted in any one of the counties in
which such assets may be, at the time of his death, or into
which they may come thereafter; and the administration first

lawfully granted, shall extend to all the estate of the intestate
and exclude the jurisdiction of administration in the same .

estate in all other counties.

Sec. 9. If several persons of the same degree of kindred
are entitled to administration, letters ma be granted to one
or more of them; but males shall be prellerred to females;—
relatives of the whole blood to those of the half blood, and
unmarried, to married women, and any other competent person may be associated in such administration, the person
entitled thereto assenting. If a creditor apply for letters, he
shall prove the amount of his debt by affidavit filed with the
clerk, and if two or more creditors are equally entitled, the
clerk or court shall decide who is to administer.

Sec. 10. No letters of administration shall be granted to
any person incapable of serving as an executor, nor to any
married woman; but when such woman shall be otherwise
entitled to administer, letters may be granted to her husband.

Snc. ll. If, before the granting of letters here, in case any person, not an inhabitant of the State, shall die, leaving
assets therein, or assets shall come into it after his death, it
shall appear that letters testamentary, or of administration
with the will annexed, have been granted on such estate, by
competent authority, in any other of the United States, then
the person so appointed, on producin such letters, shall be
entitled to letters, in preference to all other persons, except
creditors and heirs of the intestate entitled to distribution,
who are inhabitants of this State.

Sac. 12. A husband, if otherwise competent, shall be
solely entitled to administer on the estate of his wife, but
shall be liable for her debts contracted before marriage, only
to the extent of assets received from her. If he fail to
administer, he shall be liable for her debts; and, if he die,
her assets shall be subject to such debts; but if letters be
granted to any other person by reason of the husband's
incompetency, such person shall pay to the husband all the
assets remaining after the payment of the wife’s debts.

IV.—Spec¢'al Letter: 4' Administration.

Sec. 13. If, from any cause, delay is necessarily occasioned
in granting letters, or, if before the expiration of the time
allowed by law for the issuing thereof, any competent person
file his atiidavit with the proper clerk or court, that any one
is unlawfully intermeddling with the estate, or that there is
no one having authority to take care of the same, such clerk
or court shall issue special letters of administration to some
competent person, to collect and preserve the property of
the testator, or of the intestate, until demanded by an execu tor or administrator duly authorized to administer the same,
when such special letters shall be deemed revoked.

Sec. 14. Such special administrator may prosecute suits
to collect debts, secure the possession of, and preserve, the‘
property of the decedent; and, under the direction of the
court, may sell property of a perishable nature, after appraisement and notice given as in sales of personal property by an

administrator. ,
V.—-Executor De Son Tort.

Sac. 15. Every person who shall unlawfullyeintermeddlel
with any of the property of a decedent, shall chargeable‘
as an executor of his own wron , and shall be liable to an
action in the court of common p eas, or any other court of
competent jurisdiction, by any creditor or other person interested in the estate of the decedent, to the extent of the damages occasioned thereby, and shall account for the full value
of such (property, with ten per centum thereon, and may be
examine under oath touching such intermeddling, and testimony thus elicited shall not be thereafter used against him in
any prosecution; and such person may also be attached and
imprisoned in the discretion of the court, until its orders in
the premises are complied with; and no debt due such executor from'the decedent, shall be deducted from the value of
any such property.‘

the person to whom they are granted, until superseded or
revoked, and shall extend to all the decedent’s estate. "

Sac. 18. Such letters shall be recorded in a book providedfor that purpose, b the clerk of the proper court of common}
pleas, which recor , together with transcripts thereof, certilied by the clerk, and attested by his official seal, shall be evidence in all courts, in the same manner as if the originals
were produced.

GIVING BOND. AND QUALIFYING.

Sec. 19. Every person appointed executor, administrator;
with the will annexed, or administrator, before receiving
letters, shall execute a separate bond, with sufficient resident
freehold sureties, to be approved by the proper clerk or court,
jointly and severall bound, in a penalty payable to the State
of lndiana, of not ess than double the value of the personal
estate to be administered, and, in case real estate is to be
sold by the terms of a will,also double the value of such real
estate, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge his duties
as such executor or administrator, and shall take and subscribe an oath or affirmation, that he will faithfully discharge
the duties of his trust accordin to law, which oath or affirmation, attested by the clerk, sha l he filed and recorded as part
of the proceedings of the estate; and such clerk or court
shall examine, under oath, such person, or any other person,
touching the value of such personal estate, and, in case real
estate is to be sold by the terms of a will, the value of such
real estate; and shall also examine such sureties, under oath,
as to the value of the property they own, more than their
indebtedness; which oaths shall be taken and subscribed by
such person or'persons, and such sureties, respectively, and
filed as a part of the proceedings in such estate.'l'

Sec. 20. Such clerk shall report to the court of common
pleas, at its succeeding term, his acts in the premises, when
for good cause shown, such court may supersede letters issued
by such clerk, or disapprove of the bond taken, in which case
such court shall grant letters to some other person entitled to
the same, or require a new bond or additional sureties; but if no
such cause is shown, the court shall ratify and adopt the letters and bond granted and taken by such clerk, which fact
shall be entered in the order book of such court.

Sec. 21. All bonds required by this act, shall be filed,
recorded, and kept in the office of the clerk of the court of
common pleas, where the same were taken and approved:

and for this purpose aseparate book shall be kept by such

clerk.

REMOVAL OF EXEUUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

Sec. 22. On the Written application, verified by oath, of
any person interested in the estate, or of any co-executor,
co-administrator, or surety of such executor or administrator
specifying the grounds of complaint, any executor, administrator with the will annexed, or administrator may be removed, and his letters superseded by the court in which such letters issued for any of the following causes:

First. Where, from sickness, habitual drunkenness, imbecility, change of residence, actual or intended, or other cause,
he is rendered incapable of discharging his trust to the interest of the State.

Second. When he shall fail to make and return inventories
and sale bills, or to render account of his administration according to law or the order of the court, or shall waste, or
fail to pay over, according to law, the money of such estate.

Third. When it shall be shown to the court by his sureties, that such executor or administrator has become, or is likely to become insolvent, in consequence of which his sureties
have tiuffered or will suffer loss.

Fourth. Where any administratrix or executrix at the time
letters issued, was- unmarried, and shall afterwards marry,
and her husband shall tail to file his consent in open court, in
writing, to her continuing as such.

Fifth. But whenever an executor or administrator shall

the about removing from the county in which he resided at the

time he became such executor or administrator, he shall before leaving such county, make a true and final exhibit, under
oath, to the court of common pleas, of the condition of the
estate of which he is executor or administrator, at which time
his letters of executorship or administration shall be revoked;
and any executoror administrator who has, previous to the
taking effect of this act, removed from the county in which
he resided at the time he became such executor or administrator, and who has failed to make an exhibit as aforesaid,
shall at the first term of the court of common pleas, after
citation has been issued against him, be removed from all
connection, as executor or administrator, with such estate;
and it shall be the duty of the court of common pleas,

at the first session thereof to issue a citation against
such executor or administrator, commanding him to be
and appear at the next term of said court, then and
there to make a final settlement of said estate, at which
time judgment shall be rendered against such executor or
administrator for the amount found to be in his hands and due
said estate: Provided, That the above provisions shall not
apply to an administrator, who removes only into an adjoining county, but in that case, his letters may be revoked in the
discretion of the court.

Sixth. Where he shall fail to give additional bond and

sureties, as required by the court; or, the court may without‘

such application for any such causes, in cases of emergency,
remove such executor, or administrator, instanter, without
citation.

SEC. 23. On the filing of such application, or upon the
order of theacourt, the clerk shall issue a citation to the person complained against, requiring him to appear and answer,
which citation shall be served on him ten days before the
hearing of the cause.

Sec. 24. If such executor is not a resident of the State,
notice of the filing of such application shall be given three
weeks successively in some newspaper published in the county
where such application is filed; or if none is printed therein,
then in some newspaper printed in this State nearest thereto.

Sec. 25. At the term of the court next after notice has
been given, the court shall proceed to hear the proofs and
allegations of the parties; and upon such hearing, may
examine such executor or administrator on oath.

Sec. 26. If the determination of the court be against the
application to remove, the costs of the proceedings may be
taxed against the applicants; but if such determination be
against such executor or administrator, he shall be removed,
and his letters superseded immediately, or new or additional
bond or surety be required,as the case may be, and the costs
of the proceedings be taxed against him personally.

Sec. 27., If new or additional bond, or other and additional
sureties are required, two days’ time shall be allowed therefore, when, if such order is not complied with, the court shall
remove such executor or administrator, and supersede his
letters.

Sec. 28. Whenever the ground of the complaint is that any
executrix or administratrix, being an unmarried woman,
has, since the granting of letters, married, the court shall not
supersede such letters and remove her, if her husband will
signify his assent in writing, filed in open court, to her continuing as such, and if she shall give further -bond and surety
to the satisfaction of the court, if such surety be required.’
See. 29. Any surety may apply to the proper court of
common pleas to be released from his bond with such executor or administrator, by filing his request therefore with the
clerk of such court, and giving ten days’ notice thereof to
such executor or administrator, when such court shall release
such surety; and if such executor or administrator fail to give
new bond or surety, as.by it directed, he shall be removed,
and his letters superseded; but such original surety shall not
be released until such executor or administrator so gives bond,

or is removed by the court; and such original surety shall be'

liable only for the acts of such executor or administrator from
the time of the execution of the original to the filing of such
new bond.

Sec. 30. Whenever any executor or administrator is removed, and his letters are superseded, if he at any time afterwards
unlawfully intermeddles with such estate, he shall be attached
and imprisoned, not less than ten days, nor more than one
month, by the proper court of common pleas, upon complaint
of any one interested. ""

Sec. 31. Whenever any executor or administrator is so
removed as aforesaid, all his power shall cease, and his acts
as such be void; and the court shall appoint his successor, to
W} om letters de bonis non shall issuesf

Sec. 32. All lawful acts done by executors or administrators whose authority shall cease,'or by administrators before
notice of a will duly proved, shall be valid.

NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT.

Sec. 33. Every executor or administrator, within thirty
days after his appointment, shall give notice thereof by*publication three weeks successively in some newspaper printed
and published in the county, if any there be, and if not, by

written notices set up in five of the most public places in the

county, or by publishing the same in some newspaper printed
and published nearest thereto, as the clerk or court may

direct; and it shall be stated in such notice if the estate is
probably solvent or insolvent.

INVENTORIES.
I.—— What Articles Inventoried.

Sec. 34. Such executor or administrator, within sixty days ,
after his appointment, shall make out a full inventory of the‘
personal estate of the deceased,- which shall have come to h s

Jmowledge, including all demands in favor of the estate, with

a particu ar description thereof, and money belonging to such
estate, and the emblements and annual crops,whether severed
or not from the land, raised by labor, and cause the same to
be appraised b two reputable householders of the neighborhood, who, be ore proceeding to the discharge of such duty,
shall take and subscribe an oath that they will honestly appraise such estate, which oath shall be returned and filed with
the inventory and appraisement thereof.

Sec. 35. The appraisers shall, in the presence of each
other, and of such executor or administrator, appraise each
article, as specified in the inventory, at its true value, and set
down opposite to each article respectively, the value in dollars
and cents, in ii ures.

Sec. 36. here a man having a family shall die, leaving
a widow or minor child, the followin articles shall be omitted
in making the inventory, and shag not be considered as
assets, viz:

'First.- All the articles of apparel and ornament of the
widow and of the children of the deceased.

Second. The wearing apparel of the deceased, which shall
be distributed at the discretion of the widow, or if there be no
widow, in the discretion of the executor or administrator,

among the nearest relatives, unless otherwise legally directed
to be disposed of by the deceased.

Third. Bibles and school books used in the family of such
deceased.

Fourth. All the provisions on hand, provided for consumption by the family.

Snc. 37. When real estate is devised to executors, or directed by the will to be sold, for the payment of debts or

legacies, the same shall be included in the inventory, and appraised at its true value by said appraisers.

Sec. 38. When any mortgagee of real estate, or any
assignee of such mortgagee, shall die without having foreclosed the equity of re emption, or received payment of the

amount secured by such. mortgage, the mortgaged premises
and the debt secured thereby, shall be considered as persona
assets in the hands of his executor or administrator, and shall

' be administered and accounted for as such; and such executor

or administrator shall'have the same right to possession of the
mortgaged premises, and to bring any suit respecting the
same, or for the recovery of the debt secured thereby, and to
execute or ‘carry into effect any act, or ower .contained in
such mortgage, or in the provisions 0 any law, as such
mortg ee or assignee could if he were alive.‘

Sin. 9. When in any such case the mortgage is redeemed,
or the debt secured thereby is paid, the money shall be received by the executor or administrator, and he shall there- upon release and discharge the mortgage. '

S30. 40. If the mortgaged premises shall have been .taken

[possession of under the mortgage, by the executor or admin'istrator, or by the deceased, the executor or administrator
shall hold the same in trust for the creditors, heirs or other
persons entitled to the money upon the sale or redemption of
the premises.

Sec. 41. Any executor or administrator, on the failure of

‘the others named in the same letters, may make and return
such inventory and appraisement; and those so failing shall not
afterwards interfere with the administration of the estate of
the deceased, without the consent of the acting executor or
administrator, or leave of the court. a

Sec. 42. Property specifically bequeathed, may be delivered over to the legatee entitled thereto, he securing the redelivery thereof to the executor or administrator with the
will annexed, on demand, if needed for the payment ofdebts
against the estate, or for equalizing the legacies under such
will, and that he will imdemnify him against any damage on
account of the delivery of such property to such legatee.

Sec. 43. The widow, at any time before the return of such
inventory, may select and take articles therein appraised, not
exceeding [in value] three hundred dollars, for which she shall
receipt to such executor or administrator; a statement of the

kind and amount of which goods so taken by the widow,shall
be returned by such executor or administrator, with, and designated on, such inventory. ‘

II.——Return of Inventories.

Sec. 44. Such inventory and appraisement, when com-:
pleted, shall be signed by such appraisers, and such executor'
or administrator, and filed in the clerk's oiiice of the proper
court of common pleas, within thirty days thereafter.

Sec. 45. Upon returning such inventory and appraisement,.
such executor or administrator shall take and subscribe an
oath, endorsed on or annexed to such inventory, before such
clerk, that the same is a true statement of all the personal
estate of the deceased, which has come to his knowledge;
and if the widow of such decedent shall have selected property,
the amount thereof.

III.—Additional Inventories.

Sec. 46. When such estate is situated in places distant;

from each other, the executor or administrator may make,‘
return, and file separate inventories and appraisements for
.each of said places, and shall have power to select different
appraisers in each case, from the neighborhood in which such
estate, or the greater part thereof, may be situate, to appraise the estate specilied in any such inventories.

See. 47. Such executor or administrator shall make further
inventories of the personal estate of such decedent, as the
same may come to his knowledge, under the same regulations
as providechin case of the first inventory.

SALE or rsnsomu. raormrrv.
I.—Public Sale.

Ste. 48. Such executor or administrator, immediately
after filing any such inventory and appraisement, shall proceed to sell, at public auction, the personal property of the
deceased.

Sec. 49. Three weeks’ previous notice of the time and place
of suchgsalc, shall be given by such executor or administrator,
in some public newspaper printed and published in the county
in which such sale is to be made, if any such newspaper is
printed therein, and by setting up written or printed notices
thereof, at three, public places in the township in which such
property is to be sold.

Sec. 50. A credit of not less than three, nor more than
twelve rnonths, shall be given, in all such sales of personal property, by the executor or administrator, where the amount purchased exceeds three dollars; and notes waiving valuation and
appraisement laws, and bearing interest from date, shall be taken in all sales of the persona estate of the deceased.

II.—Sale of Annual Crops.

Sec. 51. The executor or administrator may defer the sale
of the annual crops, raised by labor, and which are not severed
from the land at the time of such sale, beyond the time herein
prescribed for the sale of the personal estate; and the same may
be sold before or after they are severed from the land, in the
mode prescribed for the sale of other personal property.

III.—Sale Qf Written Contracts for performance, (Soc.

Sn-c. 52. Written contracts, except for the purchase of
lands in the lifetime of the deceased, executed or transferred
to him, obligating the person executing the same to the performance of anythin whatever, other than to pay money,
may be appraised an soldas personal estate of the deceased.
, Sec. 53. When such contract is so sold, the executor or
administrator shall assign and deliver the same to the purchaser thereof without recourse. Sec. 54. Such assignment and delivery shall vest all the

rights to enforce or dispose of such contract or agreement in

such purchaser which would have vested in him if the deceased
had made such assignment.

IV.-——Sale of Ezecutory Contracts for purchase of Lands.

Sec. 55. If any such contract was for the purchase oi‘
land, and there are payments due, or to become due thereon,
and the court is satisfied, upon such executor or administrator filing his petition therefore, verified by aiiidavit, that it
would be more to the advantage of the persons interested in
such estate, that the interest of the deceased therein, under
such contract, should be sold, than that the assets in the hands of
the executor or administrator should be applied to the payment of such purchase-money; or, that the assets are insufficient to pay the same; the court shall order the executor or
administrator to dispose of the interest of the deceased therein, at public or private sale.

Sec. 56. If such sale be ordered to be made by public outlcry, notice thereof shall be given as in case of public sale of

the personal property; but, if it is ordered to be private, no
such notice shall be necessary; and, in such case, such contract
shall not be sold for less than its appraised value; and a return

of such sale, whether public or private, shall be made at the
next term of such court, when it shall be confirmed, unless it
shall appear to have been fraudulently made, or that a sum
exceeding ten per centum on the amount bid can be obtained,
in which case it shall be vacated, and a new sale ordered.
Sec. 57. Such sale shall be made subject to all payments
due or to become due, and shall not be confirmed by the court
until the purchaser shall execute a bond to such executor or
administrator, for his indemnity, and the indemnity of the
persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in such land,
in a penalty of double the whole amount of such payments,
with condition that such purchaser will make all payments
subject to which such sale has been made, and will fully indemnify the executors and administrators of the deceased,
and the persons so entitled, against all demands by reason of
any covenant or agreement contained in such contract so
sold, or by reason of any other liability of the deceased, on
account of the purchase of such land, and against all other
covenants and agreements of the deceased with the vendor of

such land, in relation thereto.
Sec. 58. When such sale shall be confirmed, the court

shall direct the executor or administrator to execute an assignment of such contract to the purchaser, which assignment
shall vest in such purchaser all the title of the ersons havin
the right to the interest of the deceased in the and thus sol ,
at the time of sale; and such purchaser shall have the same
remedies against the vendor of such land as the deceased
would have had if he were living.

Sec. 59. If, in the opinion of the court of common pleas,
a part of such land may be sold advantageously to the estate
of the deceased, so that the monies arising from such part will
pay the amount of the purchase-money due or to become due
therefore, such court may order a part only of such land to be
sold; and in that case the purchaser need not execute bond

as hereinbefore required.
V.—Private Sales.

Sec. 60. Whenever the court of common pleas shall be:

satisfied that it would be for the advantage of such estate to
sell any part of the personal property thereof at private sale,
such court may authorize the executor or administrator to thus
sell the same; but such property shall in no casebe sold for
less than its appraised value: nor shall such executor or administrator become the purchaser thereof; and a return of
such sale shall be made within the time prescribed by the
court, not to extend beyond three months; and bond, with
approved surety, shall be taken for the purchase-money,as in
case of public sales. '

VI.——-Illa/sing and’Returning Sale Bills.

S30. 61. An account of such public sales of the personal
estate shall be kept by some clerk selected by the executor or
administrator, and not interested in such estate, nor of kin to
such executor or administrator; and such account shall specify
the time and place of sale, the different articles sold, price
thereof, by whom purchased, and the names of the sureties;
which account, sworn to.and subscribed by such clerk, before
any officer authorized to administer oaths, shall be returned
by such executor or administrator within thirty days after
such sale, and filed in the office of the clerk of the proper
court, to be preserved as evidence of the sale of the property
therein specified.

SETTLEMENT OF DEBTS, PAYMENT OF LEGACIES, AND SALES
OF REAL ESTATE, WHEN THE PERSONAL IS INSUFFCIENT.

I.—--Filing Claims.

Sec. 62. A succinct statement of the nature and amount
of every claim, whether due or not, against the estate of any
decedent, except judgments which are liens upon the decedents’ real estate, and mortgages of his real or personal estate
obtained and executed in his life time, and expenses of administration, must be filed in the oilice of the clerk of the proper
court of common pleas, within one year from the date of the
first appointment of an executor or administrator therein, and
notice thereof; or no cost shall be recovered therein against
such executor or administrator; nor shall hereafter any other
court have original jurisdiction of any claim, except such liens
against the estate of any decedent; and, if such claim be not
due, interest thereon shall be rebated, and after the expiration of one year from such appointment and notice, if such
claim be not filed at least thirty days before final settlement
of the estate, it shall be barred, except as hereinafter provided
in case of the liabilities of heirs and devisees.

Sac. 63. If any person interested in such estate, shall

. execute bond with penalty and surety to the acceptance of a

creditor, whose claim is not due, for the payment thereof
when it shall fall due, if the same shall prove to be a legal
demand, the court, on such bond being delivered and accepted
and a statement thereof subscribed by such creditor, filed in
such court, shall direct a minute thereof to be made on its
order book, and the estate of the deceased to be discharged
from further liability touching it.

Sec. 64. If such person fail to pay such claim when it shall
be due, such creditor may maintain suit on such bond, and

the persons executing the same may show any matter of
valid defense.

II.-—Notice of Claims.

Sac. 65. The clerk of the proper court shall make out a list 2
of all claims filed against any estate, and at the next term of‘
such court thereafter, shall present the same to the executor
or administrator thereof, when further proceedings shall be
continued to the ensuing term of such court, unless upon the
application of such executor or administrator therefore, trial
thereof is directed to be had at such first term by such court;
but if such executor or administrator be not present at such
first term, such clerk shall transmit to such executor or
administrator such list, by mail or otherwise, if his residence
be known, and if his residence be unknown, and such list
be not so presented to him, such claim shall be disposed of
at the ensuing term, as if he were present.

III. —AHowance qf Claims.

Sec. 66. Such list shall be spread upon the appearance
docket of such court, in the order in which the claims are
filed, and whether such executor or administrator appear or
not, shall stand for trial in that order at the second term after
they are filed; and such trial shall, in all respects, be governed
by the rules regulating the trials of similar actions in the
circuit court, except that such administrator or executor,
and, in the discretion of the court, the claimant may be
examined under oath, touching such claim; but no claim except for services as executor or administrator, shall be allowed
unless proven by other testimony than that of the claimant;
and all matters of valid defense, except a set-off, may be given
in evidence without any special plea; but no execution shall
at any time issue upon such allowance, nor shall any claim
be allowed after final settlement; but such allowance shall have
th e same force in any court of competent jurisdiction in any suit
thereafter instituted touching it,and may be given in evidence
in the same manner as regular judgments at law. *"‘

Snc. 67. If, after the hearing of the proofs and allegations
on the trial of any claim against an estate, the court be satisfied that it is valid and just, the court shall order it to be
allowed, which order shall be entered on the ‘proper record
of such court, bear interest from that time until paid, and
have the full force of a regular judgment in any court, except
as herein provided.

Sec. 68. Such executor or administrator shall attendand
make all necessary defense against such claimants and when any
demand shall be due the estate from the claimant, he shall
file a statement thereof upon the trial of such claim, which
shall be all the plea of set-off required; and if he fails so to
attend in person or by agent, he shall be liable on his bond
for whatever damage the estate or person interested therein
may sustain thereby.

Sac. 69. If such claim be for expenses of administration,

‘the court may allow it, or so much as may be deemed just,

after examining under oath such executor or admisistrator
touching such claim, upon his applying and producing proper
vouchers therefore.

Sec. 70. When two or more persons are bound in any joint

contract, or in a judgment founded thereon, and either of

them shall die, the proportionable part of such con tract may
be allowed against his estate, except where the relation of
principal and surety exists, and in that case, if the decedent
be the principal, the whole of such contract shall be allowed
against such estate.

IV.—-Collection of debts due the Estate.

See. 71. Such court may direct such executor or administrator to compound with any debtor, or to buy in property
at sales under execution in favor of the estate, where the
interest thereof may be promoted by so doing, which propSac. 72. Upon complaint made to the court of common
pleas by any executor or administrator under oath against
any one suspected and believed to have concealed, converted
or conveyed away any of the goods of the deceased, such
court may cite such person to appear before it, and to be examined on oath upon the matter of such complaint; and if the
person thus cited shall refuse to appear and to answer such
interrogatories as shall be lawfully propounded to him, the
court may commit such person, upon order of attachment, to the jail of the county until the interrogatories propounded by the court shall be answered on oath; and all such
interrogatories, and the answers thereto, shall be in writing,
and signed by the party examined, and filed in such court of
common pleas.

Sec. 73. The court may discharge such executor or administrator from the collection of any debt due the estate, where
the interests of such estate are likely to be injured by an
attempt to collect; and any creditor, legatee or distributee
whose claim or interest is unpaid, upon tiling a bond with
sureties to be approved by such executor or administrator,
payable to the State of Indiana, in a penalty double the
amount of such claim, conditioned for the faithful payment
into court, of all sums by him collected on such claim, may
receive the same, and maintain suit thereupon in the name of
such executor or administrator, who shall not be liable for any
costs thereon.

Sec. '74. If the person suing on such claim, fail to account
therefore, when required by the proper court of common pleas
he and his sureties may be sued on such bond, at the instance
of any person interested_ therein, in the name and for the use
of such person; and all money collected on such bond shall
be paid into such court, and disposed of in the same manner as the personal estate of the decedent, such person being
allowed a reasonable compensation for his services in making
such collection.

V.—Petit2'on to sell Lands to pay Debts.

r Sec. 75. Whenever any executor or administrator shall
discover that the personal estate of the decedent is insufficient to pay the liabilities thereof, the court havin jurisdiction shall order to be sold the whole or any part 0 the real
estate of the deceased, upon such executor or administrator

lilinga petition therefore, either in vacation or during term time
setting forth: "" ‘

First. The amount of personal property which has come
to his hands;

Second. The amount of the debts outstanding against the
estate of the deceased, so far as the same can be ascertained,
and the insufliciency of the personal estate to pay the same;

Third. A description of the real estate of the deceased,
liable to be made assets for the payment of his debts, or so
much thereof as the executor or administrator may deem it
necessary to sell; the title which the deceased had therein at
his death; and, if the same was inventoried and appraised with
the personal pro erty, the amount of such appraisement, and
if not, the proba le value thereof;

Fourth. The names and a es of the heirs, legatees, or
devisees, if any, of the decease ; or, if they are unknown, the
fact shall be so stated. .

Fifth. Such clauses in the will, if there be any, as require
a specific distribution of the personal, making it necessary to
sell the real estate to pay such liabilities.

VI.——Notz'ce of Petition.

Sec. 76. N 0 order to sell such real estate shall be made until
a notice of the time and place of hearin such petition shall
have been given by three successive pub ications in a newspaper printed in the county, or if there be none printed
therein, in a newspaper nearest thereto, in this State, thirty
days before the hearing of such petition, and by posting up
written or printed notices thereof in three public places in
the township where such real estate is situate.'|'

Sac. 77. Whenever any of the persons interested in such
real estate are of lawful age, and shall signify in writing their
assent to such sale, the notice required by this section may be
dispensed with as to such persons, and if such persons be minors, and their guardians give such assent, such notice shall
not be required.

Sac. 78. Any creditor, upon filing a petition therefore,

\verified by his affidavit, setting forth the amount of the personal estate, the insufliciency of such personal estate to pay
the debts outstanding, a description of the real estate of the
decedent, the names and ages of the heirs and legatees, if
they be known, and, if not known, so stating, may have an
order for the sale of such real estate by such executor or
administrator, under the same regulutions as hereinbefore
provided in case of an application to sell real estate by an
executor or administrator; notice of the filing of such petition
being given to the executor or administrator ten days before
the time at which such petition stands for hearing.

VII.—Appraisement of Real Estate.

Sac. 79. If an inventory and appraisement of the real
estate, or any part thereof, described in said petition, shall not
have been made and returned, such executor or administrator,
before the court shall proceed to hear such petition, shall make
an inventory of said real estate, and cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed for the appraisement of
personal estate, and shall file such inventory and appraisement
in the oilice of the clerk of such court; and such court may,
from time to time, order a re-appraisement of such real estate,
if it be satisfied that it has been appraised at too low or too
high a rate.

VIII.-——Appoz'ntment qf Guardian ad Litem.

Sac. 80. If it shall appear that any of the heirs or devisees
of the deceased are minors, the court, before hearing the
petition, shall appoint a guardian ad litem for such minors;
and if their interests require active opposition, the court may
allow attorney’s fees to such guardian.

IX.—0rder of Sale.

Sac. 81. Such executor, administrator or creditor, upon
the hearing of such petition, may be examined under oath, witnesses be compelled to attend and testify, and depositions be
taken touching the same, under the usual regulations of law;
and if the facts set forth in the petition appear to be true, the
court shall grant an order empowerin such executor or administrator to sell the whole or so muci of such real estate as
is necessary to pay such debts, as the interest of the estate
may require; and may, from time to time, order a residue remaining unsold, to be sold for a like purpose, under the same
regulations as in case of the first sale, except thatno petition
need be filed, and notice of the filing thereof given; but the

same may be ordered to be sold upon the court being sagatied,
upon the application of the executor or administrator, that
such sale is necessary for the payment of debts.‘ _

Sec. 82. Previous to the making of an order for any such
sale, the executor or administrator shall file in the office of
such court a bond, payable to the State of Indiana, in a penalty
not less than double the appraised value of the real estate to
be sold, with sufiicient freehold sureties, to be approved by
the court, and conditioned for _the faithful discharge of his
trusts according to law.

Sec. 83. The court ordering such sale shall specify in such
order the terms of sale; but no credit shall be directed to be
given for more than eighteen months.

Sec. 84. The real estate liable to be sold for the payment

of debts, when the personal estate shall be insufficient there‘ for, shall include:

First. All the real estate held or possessed by the deceased
at the time of his death, by legal or equitable title, except such
as was held upon a contract for the purchase of land, and all
interests in real estate which would descend to his heirs.

Second. All school or other lands held on a certificate of
purchase of the General Government or the State of Indiana.

Third. All lands, and any interest therein, which the deceased in his lifetime may have transferred, with intent to
defraud his creditors.

Sec. 85. But lands thus fraudulently conveyed shall not
be taken from any one who may have purchased them for a
valuable consideration, and without knowledge of the fraud;
but such lands shall be liable to be sold only in cases in which
they would have been liable to attachment and execution by
a creditor of the deceased in his lifetime; and no proceeding

by any executor or administrator to sell any lands so fraudulently conveyed, shall be maintained, unless the same snall
be instituted within live years after the death of the testator

or intestate.
Sec. 86. If theexecutor or administrator shall be authorized to sell any lands thus fraudulently conveyed, he may, before
sale, obtain possession by an action for the possession thereof;
or may file a petition to avoid the fraudulent conveyance.

X.Q—Sale of Real Estate.

Sec. 87. Such executor or administrator shall proceed to
make such sale, having first given four weeks’ public notice of
the time, place, and terms thereof, in some public newspaper,
if there be one published in the county where such real estate
is situate, and by setting up notices thereof, at not less than
five public places in the county, three of which shall be in the
township in which such real estate is situate; or if situate in
more than one township of such county, three notices as aforesaid shall be set up in each of such townships. *“

Sec. 88. Every such sale shall be at public auction, and
for not less than two-thirds of the appraised value of such
real estate, unless in the opinion of the court, it would benefit
the estate of the deceased to sell the whole or any part of
such real estate at private sale; in which case the court, if the
same is asked for in the petition, may order and direct such
real estate, or any part thereof, to be thus sold by the executor or administrator; but the same shall not be thus sold for
less than the appraised value, nor until after notice of the
terms of the sale given as the court may direct; nor shall such
executor or administrator become the purchaser.

Sec. 89. Whenever any executor or administrator shallsell any lands, or interest therein, subject to any lien or‘
charge thereon, or any land held by the deceased at his death,
by virtue of any contract subject to any condition, such executor or administrator may take a bond of the purchaser
thereof, with sufficient sureties, conditioned that such purchaser will make all payments and indemnify the said executors and administrators, and all persons interested in the estate
of the deceased, against all liabilities of the deceased, on account of such land; but the court may make an order for the]
sale of any real estate of the decedent, or any interest which}
he may have had therein, for the payment of the purchasemoney or valid lien thereon.

XI.--Jlfortgage and Lease; qf Real Estate.

Sec. 90. Instead of ordering the sale of such real estate,‘
the court may authorize the executor or administrator to;
mortgage or lease such real estate, or any part thereof, for:
any period not longer than five years, if it shall appear that
the money necessary to be raised can be procured thereby,
to the interest of the estate.

Sac. 91. A lease or mortgage, executed by the executor;
or administrator, under the authority of the court, shall be as‘
valid as if executed by the deceased in his lifetime, but before
the court shall make any order to authorize an executor or
administrator to execute such lease or mortgage, he shall execute bond in a like manner, as is required previous to
making an order for the sale of real estate.

XII.—Sale Qf Real Estate Devised.

Sec. 92. When real estate or any interest therein is devised
by the will, or directed to"be sold for the payment of debts or
legacies, the executor shall proceed to dispose of the estate and
apply the same according to the provisions of the will. "’

r Sec. 93. When any real estate, or any interest therein, is
given.or devised by any will legally executed, to the executors therein named, or any of them, to be sold by them, or
any of them; or where such estate is ordered by any will to
be sold by the executors, and any executor or executors shall
neglect or refuse to take upon him or them the execution of
such will; then all sales made by the executor or executors,
who shall take upon him or them the execution of such will,
shall be equally valid as if the other executor or executors had joined in such sale.

. Sec. 94. Sales of such real estate, as to giving notice, conveying, taking notes and mortgages, return and confirmation,
or vacation, shall be conducted in like manner as herein
provided in relation to sales by an administrator for the
payment of debts, unless by the terms of the will different
directions are given; but no petition, or notice of the tiling
thereof, shall be required. ~

XIII.—-Sales qf Real Estate by Foreign Ezecutors.

, Sec. 95. When any executor shall be appointed without,
and there shall be no executor within, this State, the testator
not having been at the time of his death an inhabitant thereof,
the executor so appointed may file an authenticated copy of
his appointment in the court of common pleas of any county
in which there may be real estate of the deceased, after which
he may be authorized by such court to sell real estate for the
payment of debts or legacies, in the same manner, and upon
the same terms as in the case of an executor appointed in
this State, except as hereinafter provided.

Sec. 96. Whenever it shall appear to the court that such
foreign executor is bound with suiiicient su reties in the State
or country in which he was appointed, to account for the
proceeds of such sale for the payment of debts or le cies,
and a copy of such bond, duly authenticated, shall be glued in
such court, no further bond shall be required of him here; if,
however, he is not thus suiliciently bound, he shall give bond
isn said court, as is required of executors appointed in this

tate.

Sec. 97. All proceedings by a foreign executor in respect
to the sale of land, shall be had in the court in which such
authenticated copy of his appointment is first filed; and such
court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to direct the sale of
any lands of the testator situated in any county in this State.

XIV.— Taking Notes and executing Certificates qf Sale.

See. 98. Upon such sale being made such executor or

administrator shall take from the purchaser promissory notes
for the purchase-money, with sufiicient surety, waiving
recourse to the valuation or appraisement laws of this State;
and shall also execute to such purchaser a certificate of the
sale of such real estate.

Sac. 99. Such notes shall be drawn accordin to the]
terms of the sale prescribed by the court, and s all bear
interest from date.

XV.-—Return and confirmation of Sale.

Sec. 100. Such executor or administrator shall makei
return under oath, of his proceedings in the premises, at the!
next term after such sale, to the court granting the order;
and if such court be satisfied therewith, it shall confirm the
same, and direct such executor or administrator, to execute a
conveyance or assignment to such purchaser of such lands,
setting forth the name of such executor or administrator,
the heirs or devisees mentioned in the petition, the time of
filing thereof, in substance the order of the court directing
the sale, the description of the premises sold, and the name
of such purchaser or his assignee; but, upon the delivery of such
conveyance or assi nment to such purchaser or his assignee, he
shall execute and eliver to such executor or administrator a
mortgage upon such premises, according to the terms of the
sale, the expense of making which mortgage and the recordin
thereof, shall be paid by such purchaser or his assignee, whic
said mortgage, such executor or administrator shall cause to
be recorded forthwith in the proper record of deeds of such
county, and such certificate of sale, upon the delivery of such
conveyance, shall be handed over to such executor or administrator; and such notes shall be retained by him if the same
are approved by the court. '

Sec. 101. But if such court shall be satisfied that such‘
proceedings were unfair, or that the sum for which the real}
‘estate, or any part thereof, was sold, is greatly disproportioned to the real value thereof, or that asum exceeding such
sum at least ten per cent., exclusive of the expense of such
sale, can be obtained therefore, the court may vacate such
sale, in whole or in part; or, if it shall appear that the sureties taken on the notes for the purchase-money are insufiicient, such sale shall not be confirmed until additional surety,
to the satisfaction of the court, is given; and if such purchaser fail to give such surety within the time required by
the court, the sale, as to such purchaser, shall be vacated.

Sec. 102. When any such sale, in whole or in part, shall
be vacated, the court shall direct another sale to be made,

under the same regulations governing the first order and
sale, as to the real estate necessary to re-expose to sale.

XVI.—Accounting for Sale. Sec. 103. The court ranting the order for the mortgage,
lease or sale of such realgestate, shall possess the same ower
to compel such executor or administrator to account or the
proceeds thereof as in case of personal estate.

XVII.—Bond given to pay Liabilities, 

Sac. 104. An order for the sale, lease or mortgage of
such real estate shall not be granted, if any of the persons
interested in such estate shall give bond to the executor or
administrator, in a sum, and with sureties to be approved by
the court, conditioned to pay all liabilities eventually due
from the estate, with charges of administration, so far as the
personal estate is insufficient.

XVIII.—Pa_z/ing Money into Court.

Sac. 105. At the next term of the court of common
pleas after the receipt of any money of the estate of a decedent, the executor or administrator thereof shall make _a
report of the same to said court, accompanied with a
brief statement, verified by oath, settin forth the names of
the persons from whom it was receive , the nature of the
demand therefore, and that no other money belonging to such
estate, not before reported, has been received by him, which
statement shall be filed among the papers belonging to said
estate; and whenever the amount of money so reported
exceeds fifty dollars, the court shall order it to be paid into
court, unless the executor or administrator shall show by
proper vouchers that he has paid it out upon valid claims
against the estate allowed by the court, or upon such preference claims as he is permitted by law to pay off, without the
same being allowed by the court; and the court may order
such money so paid in, to be loaned out for a period not
exceeding one year from the first issuing of letters, under
such regulations as it may deem advantageous to the interests of the estate. a

Sec. 106. If such executor or administrator fail to make a

such report according to the provisions of the preceding
section, the court shall forthwith issue a citation against him,
and if he fail to appear and report as aforesaid, at the next
term after the issuing of such citation, it shall be the duty of
said court to remove him instanter, and appoint an administrator de bonis non, who shall immediately bring suit on such
executor’s or administrator's bond. _

Sec. 107. ‘In any suit, as provided for in the preceding}
section, if the plaintifff recover, he shall have damages for
the amount of money of such estate not paid over, with
interest from the time when it was received, and ten per
centum thereon.

XIX.—Pa_z/ment of Debts.

Sec. 108. N 0 claim against such estate except judgments 1
which are liens upon the decedent’s real estate, and mort-‘
gages of real and personal property existing in the lifetime
of the decedent, and the expenses of administration, funeral
expenses, and expenses of last sickness, shall be paid until
the expiration of one year from the first issuing of letters
thereon, unless it shall appear to the proper court that the
money belonging to such estate, in the hands of the executor
or administrator, or paid into court, is sufficient to pay all
claims up to that time allowed against the same, and that
such estate is clearly solvent.

XX.—0rder qf Payment.

See. 109. All claims against the estate of a decedent,«
shall be paid in the following order: ’

First. Expenses of administration;

Second. Expenses of last sickness, and funeral expenses;

Third. Judgments which are liens upon the decedent’s
real estate, and mortgages of real and personal property
existing in his life time;

Fourth. General debts;

Fzfth. To legatees;

Sixth. To distributees.

The court in its discretion, ay order the administrator or
executor, to pay the money in is hands into court, and the
same to be paid out on such claims by the clerk; or it may
direct the administrator or executor to pay it out directly,
and, in the pa ment of such claims, no preference shall be
given to any c aim of the same class, nor shall any executor
or administrator, assuch, be liable for any claim, he being

alone responsible on his bond for any breach of his trust.
[XXI.--Possession, Rents and Prqflts of Real Estate]

Sac. 110. If there be no heir or devisee of a testator or‘
intestate present at the death of the decedent to take posses-]
sion of the real estate left by any such testator or intestate,‘
the executor or atglministrator of his personal estate may, as

trustee for the proper heirs or devisees, take possession of
such real estate, and demand and receive the rents and profits
arising therefrom, and sue for and recover the same, and do
all other acts relating to such real estate, which may be for
the benefit of the persons entitled thereto, and consistent
with their rights and interests, until the settlement of such
estate, and until the court make further order in the
premises.

Size. 111. Such executor or administrator shall account
to such court for any rents or protits or use of such premises
which he shall have received, and the same may be applied to
the payment of the debts of the decedent, after the personal
property shall have been exhausted.

XXI I.—-Final Settlement.

Sec. 112. At the end of one year from the first issuing of
letters thereon, the executor or administrator, of every estate
shall make an exhibit of all his proceedings in the premises
and the clerk of the proper court shall presenta brief statement
of all payments, if any, he may have made on claims against
the deceased; both statements to be accompanied with proper
vouchers, and if there be sufiicient money on hand, the court
shall order the payment of the claims against the estate, and
unless there be claims in favor of such estate uncollected or
undisposed of according to law, shall order entered a final
settlement, if there be pending no claims against such estate
not allowed and filed according to law; and if there be such
thus pending, the settlement of such estate shall be continued
until such time as the court may direct; and if such
estate be solvent, and there be not enough money to pa
the claims against it, but real or personal estate or uncol:
lected claims belonging thereto, undisposed of, such court
shall order the money on hand, to be paid on the claims
against the estate, according to the order herein provided,
pro rata, among the claims of each class, and continue such
final settlement until such time as the court may deem necessary; and the court may, from time to time, continue the
final settlement of such estate as the interests thereof may
require.‘

3 Sec. 113. If at the time of the final settlement of any
estate, there be any claims due such estate uncollected, and
not money enough on hand to pay all the creditors, if any
such creditors Whose claim does not exceed the amount of
such claim, will accept it in discharge of so much of their

claims, it shall be delivered or assigned to them by the executor or administrator, and such estate shall be finally settled.

Sec. 114. If at the time of final settlement, all the claimsr
against such estate, except legacies, be paid, and there
remains due such estate any uncollected claim, if any legatee or heir whose share does not exceed the amount thereof
will accept it in pa 'ment of so much of his share, the same
shall be assi ned or delived to him by the executor or administrator, an the estate shall be finally settled.

Sic. 115. If at the time of final settlement of such estate;
any claim is pending against it unallowed, and the creditors,!
legatees, or heirs will execute to the approval of the claimant‘
bond with penalty and surety, to pay the amount of his claim,
if it be allowed, such estate shall be finally settled.

Sec. 116. After the debts and legacies of an estate and
charges of administration are paid, and all claims in favor of
such estate are disposed of according to law, the executor or
administrator shall be discharged from the further administration thereof, and no final settlement shall be revoked or
re-opened, except by appeal to the circuit court, and the
same shall there appear to have been illegally made:
Provided however, That any person interested in said estate
so settled, may have said settlement set aside for mistake or
fraud, at any time within three years after said settlement,
and if such person be under any legal disabilities at the time
of said settlement, then within three years after the removal
of such disability.

XXIII.—Settlement in Vacation.

Sec. 117. Executors, administrators and guardians may
at any time, in vacation, present their accounts current and
vouchers for examination to the clerk of the court of common pleas, who shall upon such examination file the same,
and report such account current and vouchers to the said
court at its next term for settlement.‘

Sec. 118. The clerk of such court shall give public notice
of the time when such accounts current will be presented to
the court for examination and settlement, which notice shall
be published ten days before each term of such court, in a
newspaper printed in such county, if any there be; if not,
by posting such notice upon the court house door, and upon
the oliice door of such clerk.

XXIV.—Payment of Legacies, <3.-c.

Sec. 119. Any person entitled to any legacy, or to a distributive share of the estate of any deceased person at any

time previous to the settlement of such estate, may apply to
such court, either in person or by guardian, after giving
reasonable notice to the executor or administrator, to be
allowed to receive a portion of such legacy or distributive
share for his su port.‘

Sec. 120. I it appear to the court that there is at least
one-third more of assets in the’ hands of such executor or
administrator or in court than will be sufficient to pay all
debts and legacies against the estate then known, such court
may in its discretion, allow such portion of such legacy or
distributive share to be advanced, as may be necessary and
proper for the support of the person entitled thereto, upon
satisfactory bond being executed to such executor or administrator, with sufficient penalty and surety for the return of
such portion with interest, whenever necessary for the payment of debts, legacies or claims, or to equalize the shares
and legacies among those entitled thereto. .

Sec. 121. After the expiration of one year from the
granting of letters, the executor or administrator may discharge the specific le acies, and pay the general legacies
bequeathed by any Wi l, if there be sufficient assets; and if
there shall not be sufficient assets to pay the general legacies, then an abatement thereof shall be made, in proportion
to the amount of each.

Site. 122. In case any legatee is a minor, his legacy, if so

‘directed by the court, and no other provision for the payment thereof is made by the will, may be paid to the guardian of such minor; and such court may require an additional bond of such guardian, if the amount of such legacy
was not taken into consideration at the time he gave bond
as such guardian.

SETTLEMENT OF INSOLVEN T ESTATES.

I.-—Petz'tion of Insolvency.

Sec. 123. Whenever it shall appear to the proper court

‘that any estate is probably insolvent, by the petition of the

executor or administrator, or creditor; verified b affidavit
thereto attached, setting forth theamount of the c aims outstanding against the estate, so far as the same can be ascertained, the description of the real estate, if any, the probable

value of the real and personal estate, and the supposed
deficiency, such court shall order such estate to be settled
as an insolvent estate.‘

Sec. 124. If there be real estate belonging to such insol-‘
vent estate, like notice shall be given as is required in casei
of a petition to sell real estate for the payment of debts;
and, on the hearing thereof, the court may examine under
oath such executor or administrator, or other persons touching

the same, provided that such petition may be filed and notice
given in vacation.

II.—Notz'ce of Insolvency.

Sec. 125. If such estate be declared probably insolvent,1
such executor or administrator shall publish a notice in a‘
newspaper printed and published in the county, if one is
printed therein, and by written notices posted up in three
public places in the county, that such estate has been declared
insolvent, and will be settled accordingly.

Sec. 126. At the term of the court next after making:
publication of such notice, the executor or administrator;
shall show to the court that such publication has been made:
as required.

III.-—-Sale of Insolvents’ Real Estate.

Sec. 127. Upon the entering of an order to settle an
estate as insolvent, all the real estate of the decedent remaining unsold, and subject to be sold according to the provisions
of this act, shall be ordered to be sold under the same regulations, as to the additional bond required of the executor or
administrator, notice of sale, conveying to purchaser, taking
bonds and mortgages, return, confirmation and vacation of
sale, as govern the sale of real estate to pay debts, the personal being insuliicient therefore. 1'

Sec. 128. If an order for the sale of such real estate has
been obtained previous to the filing of a petition of insolvency,
but has not been carried into effect, it shall be prosecuted to
completion by such executor or administrator, under the same
regulations as provided in the preceding section.‘

IV.—-Payment of Claims.

Sec. 129. If suchestate be declared" insolvent before the
expiration of one year from the first issuing of the letters
thereon, no claim against it, except expenses of administration
and of last sickness, shall be paid until the expiration of such
year, and the court shall order the loaning of the money
thereof as hereinbefore provided; and at the expiration of
such year, if all the estate of the deceased be converted into
money, and there be no claims unallowed pending against it,
the court shall direct a distribution of the money of such estate
among the claimants whose claims have been allowed, in the
order hereinbefore provided, pro rata, among the claimants of
each class; but if the property covered by liens, as mentioned
in the third class, has been sold subject thereto, that class
shall be omitted in such distribution.

Sec. 130. If, at the time of such distribution, a claim be

pending against such estate, unallowed, and such estate shall ,

ave been converted into money, such court shall order distribution as aforesaid, reserving enough of such money to pay
the pro rata share of such claim in the event it be allowed,
and shall continue final settlement of the estate until the
ensuing term, and from time to time, until such claim is final]
disposed of, unless the other creditors shall execute to such
claimant a bond with approved surety for the payment of his
pro rata share, if such claim he finally allowed, in which case
such estate shall be finally settled.
I Sec. 131. If at the time of such distribution there remain
{any claim in favor of the estate uncollected, the settlement of
such estate shall be continued as provided in the preceding
section, unless such claim be reported as desperate, or any
creditor whose distributive share would not exceed the amount
thereof, shall accept it in dischar e of so much of his claim,
in which case the estate shall e finally settled, and the
executor or administrator discharged from his trust.
Sec. 132. If any surety of a decedent is likely to become
‘liable on account of his principal, for the payment of money
in damages or otherwise, but which liability has not accrued
at the time of final settlement of such decedent’s estate, such
surety shall file a statement of such liability in the proper
court of common leas,vvhere the pro rata share of such surety
in the event his c aim were allowed, shall be reserved out of

the distribution, and the final settlement of such estate continued until such claim is disposed of, unless the other creditors
shall execute a bond to him, with sutiicient penalty and surety
to be approved by him, conditioned that they will pay the

pro rata share of such claim in the event it be allowed, in

which case such estate shall be finally settled.

DISPOSITION OF ESTATES NOT WORTH OVER THREE HUNDRED
DOLLARS.

Sec. 133. If the widow of a decedent, or any one in her;
behalf, shall file a etition in theproper clerk’s office of the‘
court of common p eas, that the estate of such decedent, real
and personal, is not worth over three hundred dollars, such
clerk shall select one disinterested householder of the county,
and such widow on her part another, as ap raisers, who shall
proceed to inventory and appraise each so vent demand due
the deceased, and each article of ersonal, and each tract of
real estate, which inventory and) appraisement they shall
return to such clerk’s office, when such clerk shall cause them
to take and subscribe an oath that such appraisement is a true
valuation of all the personal and real estate of the decedent
exhibited to them. t

See. 134. Upon the return of such inventory, if the value ;
of such estate does not exceed three hundred dollars, such‘
clerk shall not issue letters, but shall continue further proceedings in the premises until the next term of such court thereafter, when such court may order the possession of such estate
to be delivered over to such widow, and that no letters
thereon shall be issued.

Sec. 135. At such term of the court, any creditor, heir or
legatee, may resist the entering of such order, and on the filing
of an allidavit stating that he verily believes such estate was
improperly valued, and that the same exceeds three hundred
dollars, or that property belonging to such decedent was not
embraced in the inventory, such court shall appoint two other
disinterested householders of the county, who shall proceed to
re-appraise said estate under the same regulations as in case
of the first appraisement, and shall make report thereof at
such term; and if such appraisers find such estate not to be
worth over three hundred dollars, such court shall order the
same to be delivered into the possession of such widow, and
that no letters shall issue; and if at any time any executor or
administrator discover that the estate committed to his char e
is not worth over three hundred dollars, and the widow of t e
deceased be living, he shall so report to the court, when, after
deducting expenses of administration, such court shall order
the possession of such estate to he delivered to such widow,

and discharge such executor or administrator from the further.
administration thereof.

Snc. 136. Upon such court ordering the delivery of possession of such estate to such widow, such clerk shall make
out. and deliver to her, a certificate thereof, which shall be
all the authority necessary to enable her to sue for and recover all debts due the decedent, and the possession of any property belonging to such estate, such suit being prosecuted in
her own name, and such widow shall not be liable for any of
the decedent’s debts, except mortgages of real estate, but she
shall pay and may be sued for reasonable funeral expenses of
the deceased; and expenses of his last sickness.

DISTRIBUTION OF THE SURPLUS OF ESTATES.

I.— To Heirs.

Size. 137. When the deceased shall have died intestate,
the surplus remaining after the payment of all debts, and in
case of a will, after the ayment of all debts and legacies,
shall be distributed to the [legal heirs thereof according to the
law of descent in force in this State, unless such decedent was
an inhabitant of another State, in which case such surplus
shall be distributed according to the laws of that State. "

Sec. 138. At the term when final settlement of an estate
is made, if there be any surplus, the court shall order notice
to be given thirty days before the ensuing term, for three
weeks successively in some newspaper printed and published
in the county; if there be any, and by notices posted up in five
public places in the county, that at the next term, on the first

ay thereof, such surplus will be distributed among the heirs
accordin to law. '

Sec. 1 9. At the next term after such publication, if any
of the heirs shall appear and prove their heirship to the satisfaction of the court, after having examined the heirs applying, and any other person deemed proper, under oath, touching the number of decedent’s heirs, and their degrees of relationship to him, such court shall order the clerk to distribute
such surplus among the heirs applying, reserving the shares
of those who have not proven heirship, until they appear in
court in person, or by guardian or attorney, and establish
their heirship, when the court shall order payment to be
made to them, such guardians, or attorneys,

Sac. 140. In making such order of distribution, the court
may require of the distributees respectively, before receiving
their shares, to file in the office of such clerk a bond with sufficient surety, payable to the State of Indiana, conditioned
for the refunding of their rateable proportions of the estate,
to any heir who may afterward appear; but no heir shall bring
suit on such bond unless he was a minor, insane, or a nonresident of this State at the time of such distribution.

II.—Where there are no Heirs.

Sac. 141. If, at the final settlement of an estate, there
be real estate undisposed of, and no heirs who are entitled
to its possession, claiming it, if there be an executor thereof,
the court shall direct him to lease such real estate, if it be
susceptible of producing rent, to any person, for a period
not over one year, takin bond of the lessor, with sufiicient
surety for the amount 0 such rent, conditioned to keep in
good order such premises, and the payment of the taxes
thereon; and if there be no executor, the court shall direct
the administrator of such estate to lease such real estate,
under the same regulations as are provided in the case of an
executor; but before proceeding to such duties, such executor or administrator shall execute a bond payable to the State
of Indiana, with a penalty in double the value of such real
estate, with surety to be approved by the court, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of his trust.

Sec. 142. Such court may, from time to time, order the
re-leasing of such real estate, in case the heirs thereof do not
appear and establish their heirship, until the expiration of five
years after such final settlement, when if no heirs appear, the
court shall order such executor or administrator to sell such
real estate under the same regulations as are provided in case
of sales of real estate, where the personal is insufficient to pay
debts, and upon the purchase-money therefore being paid into‘:
court, the clerk shall pay the same to the treasurer of the‘
county, who shall pay it to the Treasurer of State, on whose
books it shall be credited to the unknown heirs of the deceased.

Sec. 143. If, after the expiration of two years from the
final settlement of an estate, no heirs appear to claim the}
surplus, or any part thereof, the court shall direct it to be‘
paid over to the county treasurer, to be by him paid over to

the.Treasurer of State, who shall credit it upon his books to
the unknown heirs of the decedent.

Sac. 144. The court may direct notice to such unknown
heirs, of the pendency of such proceedings, to be given at any
time before such five years have elapsed, in any newspaper
printed and published in the United States.

Sac. 145. If such executor or administrator fail to pay

.into court any money belonging to such estate, of which
‘there are no known heirs, or fail to account for the rent of

such r.eal estate, the court shall remove him from his trust,
and appoint a successor, who, having qualified and given
bond according to law, shall bring suit against such delinquent executor or administrator on his bond, which suit the
prosecuting attorney of the proper court shall prosecute, he
being allowed by such court a reasonable compensation
therefore, to be paid out of the damages assessed in such suit.

Sec. 146. The judge of the proper court of common

‘pleas shall report to the Auditor of State, within thirty days

after the same is paid into the court, the amount of money
belonging to unknown heirs, which has been directed to be
paid to the county treasurer, with the names of the decedent
and the executor or administrator, and such auditor shall
enter the same on his account against the Treasurer of State,
who shall order suit to be brought against all officers on
their bonds, who are delinquent in the management of the
same. Sec. 147. If at any time after the receipt of the proceeds
of such estate by the Treasurer of State, the heirs of such
decedent appear before any court of competent jurisdiction,
and prove their heirship, such Treasurer of State, on a certified copy of the record of such proceedin , si ned by the
clerk of such court, and attested by his 0 cia seal, bein
presented to him, shall pay to such heirs the amount of such
estate in the State Treasury.

RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMIN ISTRATOR3.
I.—Compensatz'on.

Ssc. 148. Every executor and administrator shall make

‘out, at the final settlement of the estate committed to his

trust, a full statement of his services, to the truth of which
he shall take and subscribe an oath thereto attached, and the
court, after examining him and any other person under oath
touching such services, may allow such executor or administrator such compensation as it may deem just. ""

his a

Site. 149. Such court may allow to such executor or.
administrator reasonable attorney's fees, where he employs:
an attorney in the management of such estate; but in no
case shall such attorney's fees be included in the allowance
to such executor or administrator for his personal services;
and, at the end of each year after the first issuing of letters,
[such court] may [also] allow him for such services during
the preceding year, upon his making an affidavit that he has
not already been allowed therefore.

Sec. 150. When provision is made by will for the compensation of an executor, the same shall be deemed full satis-?
faction for his services, unless he shall in writing filed in such
court, renounce all claim to such compensation.

II.-—Rz'ght to Sue.

Sec. 151. Every executor or administrator shall have full
power to maintain any suit in any court of competent jurisdiction, in his name as such executor or administrator, for
any demand of whatever nature due the decedent in his lifetime, for the recovery of possession of any roperty of the
estate; and for trespass or waste committed on the estate
of the decedent in his lifetime; but he shall not be liable, in
his individual capacity, for any costs in such suit, and shall
have power at his option, to examine the opposite party,
under oath, touching such demand, but evidence thus obtained
shall not afterwards he used in any prosecution against such

art .

P sill. 152. In any suit contemplated by the preceding
section, it shall not be necessary for such executor or administrator to make profert of his letters, nor shall his right to
sue as such executor or administrator be questioned, unless
the o posite party shall file a plea, denying such right, with

ihdavit to the truth thereof thereunto attached; in which
case a copy of the letters issued to such executor or administrator, duly authenticated, shall be all the evidence necessary
to establish such right.

Sac. 153. If, at the time any executor or administrator
shall die, resign or be removed, any suit or proceeding be
pending in any court, in which his name, in his fiduciary
capacity, is used, such suit or proceeding shall not abate or
be discontinued, but the same shall be prosecuted or defended by the remaining executor or administrator, if there be
one, or by his successor, the name of such survivor, or successor, being substituted in such suit or proceeding instead of
that of the executor or administrator whose authority has
ceased; nor shall such suit or proceeding be continued to

another term on account of such death, unless at the option
of such survivor or successor.

SEC. 154. Every order obtained in good faith by such
executor or administrator, in the proper court of common
pleas, remaining unreversed, shall be prima jacie evidence
in his favor.

Sec. 155. Any executor or administrator shall have
power to prosecute any writ of error or appeal taken by the
testator or intestate, or by his predecessor, and may have
execution and other legal process issued on any judgment
obtained by the testator or intestate, or by his predecessor in
the trust, without reviving the same by scire facias, or any
other notice to the judgment-defendant.

Sec. 156. An executor of an executor shall have no
authority to commence or maintain any action or proceeding
relating to the estate or rights of the testator of the first
executor, or to take control thereof as such executor.

Size. 157. When a will is executed in another State or
country, and admitted to record in this State, in pursuance
of the provisions of this act, the executor or administrator
with the will annexed, and any trustee appointed by such
will, or by any court of this State to perform any duty, or
carry into effect any trust created by such will, shall have all
the rights, powers and authority, and shall be subject to the
same liabilities respecting their respective duties and trusts,
as executors, administrators with the will annexed, and
trustees under wills duly executed and admitted to probate
in this State.

Sec. 158. The courts of this State shall, in all such cases,
have the same jurisdiction and powers over the appointment,
filling vacancies, requiring sureties, and enforcing, directing,
and restraining the performance and execution of the duties
and trusts of such executors, administrators with the will
annexed, and trustees, as are given to such courts respectin
the same matters arising under wills duly executed ang
admitted to probate in this State. .

Sec. 159. A non-resident executor or administrator, duly
appointed in any other State or country, may commence
and prosecute any suit in any court of this State, in his
capacity of executor or administrator, in like manner and
under like restrictions as a resident; and a copy of his letters,
duly authenticated, in like manner as provided in this act,
being produced and filed in the court in which such suit is
brought, shall be sufficient evidence of his due appointment:
Provided, That he shall give bond for costs under the laws
regulating the maintaining of suits by non-resident citizens.

III.—— With what Charged.

Sec. 160. Every executor or administrator shall be:
chargeable with the amount of all inventories filed by him,;
and the value of all property of the estate of the decedent
in his possession, and may show, in accounting therefore, that
such property was sold according to law, the amount of such
sales, the amount taken by the widow, and the loss on account
of desperate claims, and the compounding thereof under the
order of the court ;, but all returns, accounts and reports,
made by an executor or administrator, shall have an aliidavit
of the truth thereof, by him subscribed, thereunto attached.‘

IV.—May be Attacked and Imprisoned.

Sec. 161. In addition to removing him, if any executor:
or administrator shall embezzle or conceal any of ‘the pro-'
perty of the decedent, the court shall attach his person and
property, and examine him under oath touching such property, and on his refusing. to answer in such examination, or
to deliver up such property, or secure the value thereof to
the persons interested in such estate, with ten per centum
damages thereon, shall commit him to jail until the order of
lthe court is complied with, or he be discharged according to
aw.

V.—-Suit on Bond.

Sec. 162. Any executor or administrator may be sued on 2
his bond, by any creditor, heir, legatee, or surviving or suc-‘
ceeding [executor or administrator.) co-executor or co-administrator of the same estate, for any ofthe following causes,viz:'|’

First. Failure to inventory the property of the decedent,
to return inventories, appraisement -bills, sale bills, reports,
and accounts of sale, according to law.

Second. Failure to pay money of the estate into court,
according to law.

Third. Failure to use due diligence in collecting claims
due the estate.

Fourth. Want of reasonable care in taking solvent sureties to all obligations, to secure the purchase-money of any
of the property of the decedent. _

F zfth. Embezzling, concealing, or converting to his own
use such property.

Sixth. N eglagently permitting any of the property of the
decedent to be injured.

Seventh. For committing any waste upon the real estate
of the decedent, or knowingly permitting the same to be
done, when such real estate is in his possession and control
as such executor or administrator."“

Eighth. Failure to render an account of his proceedings
whenever required by the court, or the provisions of this
act. _

Ninth. Non-compliance with any order of the court
touching theestate.

Tenth. An other violation of the duties of his trust.

Sec. 163. uch suit may be brought by, and on the rela,tion of, any such creditor, heir, legatee, surviving, succeeding [executor or administrator,] co-executor or co-administrator, but no costs shall be taxed in such proceeding,
against the estate, unless it is brought by such surviving,
succeeding [executor or administrator,] or co-executor or coadministrator; and the measure of damages in all such suits,
shall be the value of the property converted, destroyed, embezzled or concealed, the injury sustained by the estate, or
any person interested therein, interest on money retained,
such exemplary damages as the court or jury trying the case

may be willing to give, and ten per centum on the whole
amount assessed. '

Sec. 164. No stay of execution, or benefit of valuation,
or appraisement laws, shall be allowed on a judgment on
such bond as to the roperty of the principal; and all damages so collected sha l, by the officer collecting the same, be
paid into the proper court of common pleas, when, after
deducting and paying to the relator in such suit, a reasonable
compensation for his services therein, it shall be disposed of
according to the laws regulating the distribution of the property of the decedent. .

Sac. 165. When any new bond shall be required of an
executor or administrator, the sureties in the prior bond
shall, nevertheless, be liable for all breaches of the conditions
of such prior bond, committed or suffered before the new
bond shall be approved by the court, and for every failure of
such executor or administrator to perform any duty, service
or obligation, in fully accounting for, and paying over to the
proper person, all the assets which may have come into his
hands, as executor or administrator.

GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTING DUTIES OF CLERKS OF
COURTS OF COMMON PLEAS.

Sec. 166. In addition to the duties of the clerk of the court 4
of common pleas, hereinbefore enumerated in this act, it shall i
be his duty to report to the proper court of common pleas,;
all failures of an executor or administrator to return or file
any inventory, sale bill, account, report, proceeding or other
matter, within the time prescribed by law, or the order of the
court, at the next term of such court thereafter; and such
court shall at every term interrogate such clerk under oath
touching such failures, whether any have occurred during the
vacation, and who are the delinquents.

Sec. 167. In addition to an order book, in which the pro-5
ceedings of the court are entered, such clerk shall procure ai
judgmentdocket in which all allowances, in their order, with‘
date of allowance, amount thereof and credits thereon, shall
be entered; an appearance docket, in which the names of the
executor or administrator of every estate unsettled, together
with a marginal note of the proceedings in such estate neces» sary to be had at the term for which such docket is made up;

what returns such executor or administrator is required by
law or the order of the court to make at such term; receipts
of all money of such estate, aid in at such term; and the
names of parties to claims, and’ their attorneys.

Sec. 168. Such clerk shall also provide a docket in which;
all executors’, administrators’ or guardians’ bonds, and all

P‘ pl'0VlSlOnS of this act, in which infants may be plantiffs, com1

bonds required by virtue of this act, shall be recorded, within
ten days after the same are filed; and such clerk failing to
do so, shall be liable to a prosecution and fine for malfeasance
in office, and for all damages occasioned by such failure, in a
suit on their otiicial bonds.

Sec. 169. Such clerk shall also keep a docket in which he
shall record, within thirty days after the same are filed or
entered, all inventories, sale bills, and orders for sale of real
estate, which shall be all the final record of the proceedings
in any estate of a decedent, necessary to be made.

Sec. 170. Such clerk shall also keep a docket in which he
shall record all letters testamentary, and of administration,
within ten days after the same are issued. .

Size. 171. The business of every estate shall be disposed of
in the order in which it is entered in the appearance docket.

NOTICES AND PROOF THEREOF.

‘Sac. 1'72. Upon the return of an officer that any person
required to be notified by the provisions of this act of the
pendency of any proceeding, cannot be found, or upon the
filing of an affidavit, by any disinterested person, in court or
in vacation, that such person is a non-resident of this State,
or that his residence is unknown, notice may be given to him
by publication, as is provided in such cases.

See. 173. An executor or administrator, whose duty it is
to give any of the notices required by the provisions of this
act, shall file a copy of every such notice in the office of the
clerk of the court of common pleas, with an affidavit thereon
made by such executor or administrator, or a competent
witness, before some officer duly authorized to administer
oaths, stating the times and places when and where such
notices were published or set up.

Snc. 174. Such copy of any notice, verified as aforesaid,
and duly certified by the clerk of said court, shall be received
in evidence in any court in this State, and be deemed sufiicient
proof of the matters and things therein contained. _

Sac. 1'75. Nothing contained in the two preceding sections,
shall preclude such executor or administrator, or any other
person, from proving, in any suit or proceeding, that the provisions of this act respecting such notice, have been complied

with, although no such copy or affidavit may have been filed
as therein required.

WHERE INFANTS ARE PARTIES.

Sec. 176. In all suits and proceedings instituted under the

plainants or defendants, such infants shall appear by their

guardian at law, or guardian ad litem, appointed by the

court; and such suits or proceedings, if conducted in good

faith, shall not be liable to be opened by such infants, upon

arriving at full age.

Sec. 177. Any such infant, after arriving at full age, may,:
within three years thereafter, upon the proper proceedings:
being instituted by him, have any judgment, order or decree,
opened or annulled, or set aside, if he can show that the samewas obtained by mistake, or through fraud.

LIABILITIES OF HEIRS, DEVISEE3, AND DISTRIBUTEES.

Sac. 178. The heirs, devisees and distributees of a deco-I
dent, shall be liable to the extent of the property received by‘
them from such decedent's estate, to any creditor whose claim
remains unpaid, who, six months prior to such final settlement
was insane, an infant, or out of the State; but such suit must
be brought within one year after the disability is removed.

Sr-:c. 179. Such suit shall be instituted in any court of com-I
petent jurisdiction, against all who are liable who can bel
reached with process, and their representatives, by petition,
and the costs in such suit shall be app )l'tl0I1€d among the
defendants, in proportion to the amount recovered of each
of them.

Sr-zc. 180. Unless it shall appear to the court that the real,
estate which has descended, or was devised to any suchdefendant, and on account of which the creditor is entitled
to recover against him, was alienated by him in good faith
subsequently to the final settlement of the ancestor or devisor, by the executor or administrator, and before the commencement of such suit, the court may decree that the debt
of the claimant shall be levied of such real estate; and every
such decree against the same, shall have preference as a lien
thereon, to any judgment or decree obtained against such
defendant personally, for any debt or demand in his own
ri ht.

gS ac. 181. But no real estate thus descended or devised to
such heir or devisee, and alienated by him in good faith after
the final settlement of the estate of the ancestor or devisor, and before the commencement of such suit, shall be liable to execution, or in any manner affected by a decree
against such defendant in the premises; but he shall be personally liable on such execution or decree for the amount
proper to be recovered against him, as for his own debt, not
to exceed the value of such real estate, unless he is liable on
account of personal assets, in which case he shall be also liable to an amount not to exceed the value of such assets.

Sec. 182. When such real estate has been aliened by any
‘such defendant, but is liable to be reached by such decree, the
same shall not be taken and sold by virtue thereof until the
other property of the defendant, subject to execution, has
been exhausted; and in that case any deficiency shall be
supplied by resort to the property thus aliened.

, Sec. 183. No more shall be recovered against any such
defendant than his just proportion of any such debt, whether
‘he has become liable therefore on account .of real estate, or
an interest therein, or on account of personal assets,
unless the others are beyond the reach of process or unless
after due diligence, the amount cannot be recovered from
the others, who are liable with him; in which case he shall be
liable therefore to the extent of the real and personal assets
received by him.

, Sec. 184. If. by the will of the deceased, any part of his
estate, or any one or more of the devisees orlegatees shall be
made exclusively liable for the debt, in exoneration of the
estate, or of the devisees or legatees, the provisions of the
will shall be complied with, in that respect; and the real
estate, and the persons so exempted by the will, shall be liable only for so much of the debt as cannot be recovered from
those first char eable therewith.

" ' Sac. I85. eirs, devisees, and distributees, may be sued
' jointly in any such suit, and no such suit shall be barred or
dismissed for want of including all‘ the persons as defendants
who might have been included; and in any stage of the proceedings the court may award to the complainant proper
process to bring in other parties, and may allow such amendments as may be necessary to charge them as defendants, on
such terms as the court shall think reasonable.

Sec. 186. N 0 such suit shall be delayed, nor shall the
remedy of a claimant be suspended by reason of the infancy
of any heir, devisee, or distributee; but guardians to defend
their rights in such suit shall be appointed as in other cases.

Sec. 187. When a decree shall be rendered against defendants who are infants ,no execution issued thereon shall be executed against them, until the expiration of one year after the rendition of such decree; but such execution may be executed
against other defendants in the same suit who are of full age
as in other cases; and whenever any heir, devisee or distributee shall have been compelled to pay more than his just
proportion, he may have his action, severally or jointly with
others, to recover of the other heirs, devisees, or distributees
liable therefore, the amount which he may have thus been
compelled to pay.

TRIAL BY JURY.

SEC. 188. Trials by jury shall be allowed at the request‘
of any party in all cases where there is an issue of fact; and
in any such case, the court shall direct the sheriff to summon
a jury of twelve householders of the county, unless the party demanding a jury consent to a less number; and in all
such trials, such court and jury shall be governed by the same
regulations, not inconsistent with this act, as are provided
in the case of trials in the circuit court.

APPEALS.

Sec. 189. Any person considering himself aggrieved by.
any decision of a court of common pleas growing out of any
matter connected with a decedent’s estate, may prosecute a
writ of eror or ap eal to the circuit or supreme court, upon
filing with the cler of such court of common pleas, a bond
with penalty in double the sum in controversy, in cases where
an amount of money is involved, or where there is none,
in a reasonable sum, to be designated by such clerk, with
suliicient surety, payable to the opposite party in such appeal,
conditioned for the diligent prosecution of such appeal,
and the payment of all costs, if costs be adjudged against

the appe ant.
Sec. 190. Such appeal-bond shall be filed within thirty

days after the decision complained of is made, unless for good
cause shown, the court to which the appeal is prayed, shall
direct such appeal to be granted on the filing of such bond
within one year after such decision; but any person who is
aggrieved, desiring such appeal may take the same in his own
name, without joining with any other person.

Sec. 191. In case a writ of error is prayed for, the same
regulations which prevail in the prosecution of such writs
from the circuit to the supreme court shall govern.

Sale. 192. In taxin costs against the parties to such
appeal, the same rules s all be observed, as in cases of appeals
from justices of the peace to the circuit court.

Sec. 193. In any appeal prayed for by an executor,
administrator or guardian, from the decision of any court, it
shall not be necessary for such person to file an appeal-bond
npr shall such bond be required of him in prosecuting a writ
0 error.

FORMS OF PROCESS, INVENTORIES, BONDS, SALE BILLS, &.e.

Sec. 194. The following forms shall be substantially
adopted, wherever they are applicable, in the execution of a

will, or administration of an estate of a decedent, the names
therein being changed to suit each particular case:

Citation to an Executor to Prove a Will.

State of Indiana,

Monroe county.
The State of Indiana to John Stout:

As information has been given us that John Jones of said

county died lately, having previously made a written will, in
which he appointed you executor thereof; thereforee you are
hereby cited to appear before us on the day of ,
at our office, (or before the court of common pleas of such
county on a day and term mentioned,) then and there to make

probate of said will, and take letters testamentary thereon.
In witness, I, Milton McPhetridge, clerk of the

[SEW] r-.ourt"of common pleas of said county, have
‘ ' hereunto set my hand, and affixed the seal of

said court, the day of .
MILTON McPI-IETRIDGE.

   

   

T

Citation to Keeper of a Will.

State of Indiana,
Monroe county.
The State of Indiana to John Stout:
_ As information has reached us that you have possession of
the last will of John Jones, deceased, you are hereby cited

to appear before us, (or in court at a time mentioned,) on the
day of , and deliver such will to us for probate.

In Witness, 1, Milton McPhetridge, clerk of the
[SEAL] court of common pleas of said county, have
' hereunto set my hand, and affixed the seal of said

court, the day of .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE.

l

   

   

Certificate of Probate of Will.

State of Indiana,

Monroe county.
1, Milton McPhetridge, clerk of the court of common pleas

'- of said county, certify that the within last will of John Jones,
late of county, deceased, has been duly admitted to

probate; that its due execution was this day proven by

 

, whose proofs, together with such will, have been
duly recorded on page of the record of wills in our

office.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand,
and affixed the seal of said court, this

day of .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE.

[szAL.]

Citation to a Widow;

State of lnr_li:ma,2
Boom‘: r-_r;u1:1t.}'. 
T/re Strife of ImI'ir;r.rz(z to _-Wrzr_2; JU'!U_-‘S.’

.At the hlsuinec rd’ ,}w)u are herclgrtntcd trinyqiear
lJeh)rc1isc:n lhki (la}*(d' ,:11rnu1'Ldlh‘c,(<n'ln3hJrc
tlie C()lH'ir1f C(JHllH(JH [dials (H SLlCl1(WJlHll}',t)ll n Lh1)'nJ1d 1811]}
n1enth3ncd,) Ihcil urul there 1:: mike :nluH1H<truIh1n cyf the
estate of _\_'«_mr (ll-'::_-.+:-:1:-ml. lm~;h;'iml, John .lunc<.

Ill Wil.l1c.<:~:, I, ,\li|I'm1 .-lickl.’l'|L*.l1'i(l_;;(': <_'l(*1‘k of the
court of CHHIUHHI ldeas of snhl county, have
l1HFCLH1l0 sot nly h:nul,:uid :iHixu¢lIlu: soul (d'
saklcouN,1hc dnyin' .

.\IlI..’I‘(_L\.' ML-.l’Ill§'l‘l{'lI)G]*}.

   

[sm L.]

   

Statement of claim of creditor applying for Letters.‘

State of Indiana,

Ohio County.
1, Daniel Long, a resident of the State, do swear that John

Jones, late of the county of Ohio, deceased, died indebted to
me in dollars and cents, which sum is still due me.
DANIEL LONG.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, the da of
MILTON MCPHE RIDGE,
C. C. C. P. of Ohio county.

   

O

Ajidavit of Executor as to the value of the decedent’: property.

State of Indiana, g

Monroe county.
I, John Stout, swear that the value of the personal property

of John Jones, deceased, (and of the real estate directed by

I indebtedness,

his will to be sold,) does not exceed the sum of
as I believe, so help me God.

dollars,

JOHN STOUT.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of .
- MILTON McPHETRIDGE,

‘C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Ajidavit of the Administrator as to the value of the Intestate’s

property. "‘
State of Indiana,
Monroe county.

I, John Stout, swear that the personal property of John
Jones, deceased, is not worth over dollars, as I believe,
so help me God. JOHN STOUT.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of .

MILTON McPHETRIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

   

Oath of Sureties, as to the value of their propertyxt
State of Indiana,

Monroe county.
I, John Brown, swear that I am worth, over and above my
dollars, asI believe, so help me God.
JOHN BROWN.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE,
C. C. 0. Monroe county.

Oath qf Executor or Administrator on taking Letters.1

State of Indiana,
Monroe county.

I, John Stout, swear that Iwill faithfully discharge the
duties of my trust, as executor of the last will (or administrator of the estate,) of John Jones, deceased, accordin to law,
so help me God. JOHN S OUT.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of .

MILTON McPHETRIDGE,

   

C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

E:eecutor’s or Administrator’: Bond.‘

Know all men, That we, John Stout, Thomas Bond and
John Brown, are bound unto the State of Indiana, in the penal
sum of dollars, for the payment of which we, jointly
and severally, bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators. Sealed and dated the day of . .

_The condition of the above obligation is, that if the above
bound John Stout shall faithfully discharge the duties of his
trust as executor of the last will (or as administrator with the
will annexed,) (oras administrator of the estate) of John Jones,
deceased, according to law, then the above obligation is to
be void, else to remain in full force.

JOHN STOUT, 

 

THOMAS BOND, Seal.
JOHN BROWN, Seal.
day of .
MILTON MCPHETRIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

   

Approved by me, the

Letters Testamentary, and with VVIII amze:ced.1'

1, Milton McPhetrid e, clerk of the court of common
pleas for the county of onroe, in the State of Indiana, do
certify the annexed to be a true copy of the last will of John
Jones, late of said county, deceased, and of. the certificate of
probate as endorsed thereon; and, John Stout having duly
qualified and given bond as required by law as executor, (or
administrator with the will annexed.) is duly authorized to
take upon himself the administration of said estate, according to such will.

Witness my hand, and the seal of said court, the

day of .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE.

[sn.u..]

   

Letters of Administrationqj

I, Milton McPhetrid e, clerk of the court of common
pleas for_the county of onroe, in the State of Indiana, do
hereby certify that administration of the personal property
of John Jones, late of Monroe county, deceased, who died
intestate, is granted to John Stout; and the said John Stout
having qualified and given bond as such administrator, is

duly authorized to take upon himself the administration of

such estate according to law. .
Witness my hand, and the seal of said court, this

day of .
MILTON MCPHETRIDGE.

E

[smu..]

   

Citation to Executor or Administrator of the pendency of an
. application to remove him.‘

State of Indiana, g
Cass county,

The State of Indiana to John Stout,
Executor of the last will (or Administrator

of the estate) of John Jones, deceased :

As Daniel Brown has this day filed in our court of common pleas, a petition to remove you from your trust, on
account of (here state, concisely, the causes alleged in the
petition,) you are thereforee cited to appear before such court,
on the first day of the next term thereof, and defend if you

choose.
In witness, I, Milton McPhetridge, clerk of said

[smu..] court, have hereunto set my hand and aifixed
the seal of said court, the da of

MILTON McPH *TRIDGE. '

 

Notice to non-resident Executor of proceedings to remove him.'|'
Notice is hereby given that John Craft has filed his petition

"in our court of common pleas, to remove John Stout from

his trust as executor of the last will of John Jones, deceased;
and if said John Stout does not appear at the next term of
such court, the petition will be heard in his absence.

(Attestz) MILTON MCPHETRIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Notice of appointment as Executor or Administrator.I

Notice is hereby given that the undersigned has been
appointed executor of the last will (or administrator of‘ the
estate) of John Jones, late of Monroe county, deceased.
Said estate is supposed to be solvent (or insolvent.)

JOHN STOUT,
Executor (or Administrator.)

Notice of Sale.‘

Notice is hereby given, that I will sell, at public auction,
on Monday, the first day of June next, at the residence of
John Jones, late of Monroe county,deceased, all his personal
property, (not taken by the widow, if there be one,) consisting of horses, hogs, dzc. A credit of six months will be

‘given on all sums over three dollars, the purchaser giving his

note with approved surety, waiving valuation and appraisement laws.
' JOHN STOUT, Executor,
April 20th, 1853. (or Administrator.)

Petition to sell a Contract for the purchase of Land .1’

State of Indiana, g

Allen county.
The undersigned, executor of the last will (or administrator of the estate) of John Jones, deceased, would represent
to the court of common pleas of said county, that said John
Jones, in his lifetime, purchased the E. half of section 9,
township 10, N. of range 1 W., situate in Monroe county, of
one Joseph Howe; that there are yet due thereon two payments, one on the 25th of December, 1852, for one thousand dollars; the other on the 25th of December, 1853, for one thousand
dollars; and, that it would be more to the advantage of the
estate that the same should be sold, than that the assets of
the estate be applied to the payment of the purchase-money,
(or that such assets are insufficient to pay such purchasemoney.) He, thereforee, prays that the decedent's interest

in such real estate be sold.
JOHN STOUT, E:c’r, or Admr.)

(
Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of
MILTON McPHETRIDGE,

C’. C. C. P. Monroe county.

_Bond to indemnify Executor or Administrator in the sale of
such C'ontract.I

Know all men by these resents, that we, Charles Way-3
man, William Ewing and ohn Mooney, are bound to John‘
Stout, executor of the last will (or administrator of the
estate) of John Jones, deceased, in the penal sum of four
thousand dollars, for the payment of which we, jointly and
severally, bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators. Sealed and dated the day of

   

The condition of the above obligation is, that as the above
bound Charles VVayman has this day purchased the interest
of the estate of John Jones in the E. half of section 9, township IO, N. of range 1 W., on which there is a payment of
one thousand dollars due on the 25th of December, 1852,
and another of one thousand dollars due on the 25th of December, 1853. Now, if the said Charles Wayman will make
such payments, and remove all other charges and liens thereon, and indemnify said John Stout, executor, (or administrator) and ‘all persons interested in said estate, against all
demands by reason of any agreement or covenant, in the
contract for the purchase of said real estate from said Joseph
Howe, then this obligation is to be void, else to remain in

force. CHARLES WAYMAN, sun.
WILLIAM EWING, sn.u..
JOHN MOONEY, sun.

Notice qfthe sale of Contract for the purchase of Land.’ ‘

Notice is hereby given, that I will, on the of ,
at the late residence of John Jones, deceased, sell at public
auction the decedent’s interest in the E. half of section 9, T.

10 N ., of R. l W., on a credit of months.
JOHN STOUT, Executor,
April 3d, 1852. (or Administrator.)

Assignment qf Contract for purchase of Real Estatesl‘

I, John Stout, executor of the last will (or administrator
of 'the estate) of John Jones, deceased, hereby assign all of
said decedent’s interest in the: E. half of section 9, T. 10, N.,
of R. 1 W., for and in consideration of the sum of $500, to
me paid.

Witness my hand and seal, the day of .
JOHN STOUT, E:c’r, (or Admr.) [sn.u..]

_

Petition for private sale of Decedent’s Personal Estate.;[

State of Indiana,
Monroe county.

John Stout, executor of the last will (or administrator of
the estate) of John Jones, deceased, respectfully represents
to the court of common pleas of said county, that it would

State of Indiana,
Monroe county. “

I, John Stout, executor of the last will (or administrator
of the estate) of John Jones, deceased, swear that the foregoing sale bill is a true account of the sale of the personal

property of the decedent, not taken by the widow.
JOHN STOUT.

Subscribed and sworn to before me the——day of
. MILTON McPHETRIDGE.
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

0

Citation to pay over money.1'

State of Indiana,
Montgomery county.

The State of Indiana to John Stout:

As it has been represented to our court of common pleas,
that you have money in your possession belonging to the
estate of John Jones, deceased, of which you are administrator, (or executor of will) you are hereby cited to appear
instanter (or at the next term) and pay such money into court,
or account therefore according to law.

a In witness,I have hereunto set my hand, and affixed

[Seal.] the seal of said court, the day of .

MILTON McPHETRIDGE.
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Petition to seH Real, the Personal Estate being insujicient to
pay debts.1
State of Indiana,
Monroe county.

I The undersigned, executor of the last will (or administrator
of the estate) of John Jones, deceased, would represent to the
court of common pleas of said county that the personal estate
of the deceased amounts to $921, and that the claims against
the same, as appear from the judgment docket of the court,
amount to the sum of $1,520, leaving $599 of indebtedness
over the value of the personal estate; that the decedent died
the owner in fee simple of the N. W. qr. of sec. 6, T. 9, N. of R.
l E., valued at $1,500; that the decedent left as his heirs. his

widow, Mary Jones, and three children, David, a ed eight,
Sarah, aged twelve, and Cass, aged six years; al of said
county, and who are all the heirs of the decedent known to
your. petitioner. He thereforee asks for an order to sell such

real estate. JOHN STOUT.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, the da of .

MILTON McPHE RIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Notice to Heirs of petition to sell Real Estate.

State of Indiana,
Monroe county. l "

Notice is hereby given, that John Stout, executor of the last}
will (or administrator of the estate) of John Jones, deceased,
has filed his petition to sell the real estate of the decedent, his
personal being insufficient to pay his debts; and that said
petition. will be heard at the next term of the court of common pleas of said county.

Test: MILTON MCPHETRIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Bond given by Executor (or Administrator) before selling Land.1

Know all men by these presents, that we, John Stout, John :

Mooney and John Purrell, are bound to the State of Indiana
in the penal sum 0 three thousand dollars, to pay which we
jointly and severally bind ourselves, our heirs, executors or
administrators, sealed and dated the day of .
The condition of the aboveobligation is, that, as the above
bound John Stout, as executor of the last will (or administrator of the estate) of John Jones, deceased, has been ordered by
the court of common pleas of Monroe county, to sell the real
estate of the decedent; now, if the said John Stout will faithfully discharge the duties of his trust, accordfng to law, then
the above obligation is to be void; else, to remain in full force

in law. JOHN STOUT, EL. mi

JOHN MOONEY, L. s.
JOHN BURRELL, L. s.

   

day of . .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Approved the

Citation to Account. "

State of Indiana,

Monroe county.
The State of Indiana to Jolm Stout:

By direction of the court of common pleas of said county,
you are hereby cited to appear before said court, at the next
term thereof (or instanter) and render an account of yourproceedings in the administration of the estate of John Jones,

deceased. .In witness,I have hereunto set my hand and affixed

 the seal of said court, the day of .
v MILTON MCPHETRIDGE,

C. C’. C. P. Monroe county.

Current Account of an Executor or Administrators!’

I,-John Stout, executor of the last will (or administrator of
the estate) of John Jones, deceased, swear that since the last
term of the court of common pleas of Monroe county, I have

received

Of _._.._....._..__—.—., on note, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  00
Of 01] agcguntr . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  00
Total . . . . . . . . . . Q . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  00

And thatl have received no other money of the estate of said
decedent, which I have not heretofore reported.

JOHN STOUT.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, the day of .
' MILTON cPHETRIDGE,

C. C. . P. Monroe county.

List and notice of claims against an Estate.I

Mn. Jenn S'rou'r, . _ - «
' Executor of the ‘last-will (or Administrator
of the estate) of Jo/in Jones, deceased:
_ You are hereby notified that since the last term of our
court of common pleas, the following claims have been filed
against the estate of which youare executor (or administrator.)

By John Brown._.note . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ()0
By Jacob Struble—account for goods - - - - - - - - 20 00
By Jgb Ru]e.—coffin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  00
By Joseph Little——physician’s bill - - - - - - - - - - - - 55 00

Given under my hand, the day of —-g——.
MILTON McPHETRIDGE,

C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Petition to settle as Insolvent.

State of Indiana, ‘
Monroe county. l
The undersigned, executor of the last will (or administrator of the estate) of John Jones, deceased, would represent
to the court of common pleas, that the whole of the property
of the decedent, real and personal, is insufficient to pay the
debts of the=-estate; wherefore he asks for an order to settle
it as insolvent. JOHN STOUT.
Subscribed and sworn to before me, the —— da of —-.-.
MILTON MCPHETRI GE,
C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Notice of Insolvency.

At the term of the court of common pleas of Monroe
county, the estate of John Jones, deceased, was declared
probably insolvent. Creditors are thereforee notified that the
same will be settled accordin

ly.
JOITN STOUT, E.1:’r (or Adm’r.)

   
 

Dated day of .
Statement of the Cleric of the disposition of the Funds of an
Estate.
I, Milton McPhetridge, clerk of the court of common leas
of Monroe county, make the following statement the

funds of the estate of John Jones, deceased, so far as the
same have come to my hands:

RECEIPTS.

Received of the executor, John Stout, in all - - - - - $4,700 00
Paid to A. B. as per voucher No. 1- - - -$3,000 00
Paid to John Stout, executor, for services as r voucher No. 2- - - - - - - - - 50 00
Paid to Pe eg Pop un, attorney’s fees ,
33 pg]; vouchgr o_ 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 m
Paid to C. D., oh his claim as per

voucher No, 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 500 00
Paid for Clerk’s fees er order - - - - - - - - 25 00
Paid to E. F., funera expenses, as per

voucher N0, 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  W
Paid for expenses of sale of property,

as per voucher N o. 6 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10 00
There is now remaining in my hands- - 1,030 00

Total paid out and on hands - - - - - - - - - - - - 34,700 00

   

MILTON McPHE'l‘RIDGE, Cleric.

Signed the clay of

Notice of Distribution to Heirs.

Notice is hereby given, that at the -———— term of the:
court of common pleas of Monroe county, after final settle-‘
ment of the estate of John Jones, deceased, five hundred
dollars were found remaining for distribution among the
heirs. Said heirs are thereforee notified to appear at the next
term of said court and receive their distributive share.

Ajidavit of Widow that estate is not worth over 

State of Indiana, K
Monroe county.

I, Mary Jones, widow of John Jones, deceased, swear that.
my late husband's property, real and personal, exclusive of ‘
encumbrances thereon, is not worth over three hundred‘
dollars, as I believe, and I ask that the same be a praised.

‘ MAR JONES.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, this da of .
MILTON McPHE RIDGE,

C. C. C. P. Monroe county.

Certificate to Widow.

I, Milton McPhetrid e, clerk of the court of common pleas«
of Monroe county, here y certify that, after due appraisement,‘
the court being satisfied that the estate of John Jones, deceased, is not worth over three hundred dollars, have ordered the
possession thereof to be given to the widow, Mary Jones.

In witness,I hereunto set my hand, and affix the seal

[Seal] of said court, the day of .
MILTON McPHETRIDGE,

C. C. C. P. Monroe county...

Sec. 195. There shall be printed of this act, in pampfilet!
form, one copy for each hundred inhabitants of the State,3f
to be deposited in the office of the clerk of the proper courts‘
in each county, in the same proportionate number; and ever
person appointed executor or administrator, shall by such clerh
be furnished with a copy thereof, and shall pay to such clerk
the sum of ten cents therefore; or any other person, for the
same price, may procure a copy thereof; and such clerk shall
pay over to the treasurer of his county all money so received,
to be by him re-paid into the State treasury. '

cation, unless it shall appear from such contract to have been
so intended; and a remedy for specific performance may be had
a ainst the devisees, by the persons entitled thereto, by virtue
o the contract; and the purchase-money due on such contract, when recovered by the executor, shall be paid to the
devisees.

S30. 7. An encumbrance upon any estate, shall not be
deemed a revocation of any devise of such estate previously
executed, but the devises and legacies relating thereto shall be
subject to such encumbrance.

Sec. 8. If, after having executed a will, devising any
property, any testator shall make a conveyance of his interest
therein, and shall take back a new estate therein, such new
estate shall pass by his will to the person to whom the original
estate or interest was devised, unless it shall appear from such
will, or by the conveyance of his estate, or interest therein,
or by the instrument by the force of which such new estate
is taken back, that the testator intended that such conveyance
should operate as a revocation of such devise.

Sec. 9. A conveyance, settlement, deed or other act of a
testator, by which his estate or interest in property previousl
devised by him shall be altered, but not wholly divested, shal
not be deemed a revocation of such devise; but the same
shall pass to the devisee or legatee, the actual estate or interest
of the testator, which woul otherwise descend to his heirs;
unless such devise shall be otherwise revoked, or unless in the
instrument by which such alteration is made, the intention is
declared that it shall operate as a revocation of such previous
devise; but if, in any case, the provisions of the instrument by
which such alteration is made, are wholly inconsistent with
the terms and nature of such previous devise, such instrument
shall operate as a revocation thereof, unless such provisions
depend on a condition or contingency, and such condition be
not performed, or such contingency do not happen.

Sec. 10. When any estate, real or personal, that is devised,

}shall be taken, in whole or in part, from the devisee for the
payment of the debts of the testator, all the other devisees
shall contribute their respective portions of the loss to the

erson from whom the estate is ta en, so as to make the loss
all equally on such devisees, according to the estimated value
of the property received by each of them, unless the testator
in his will, in making a specific devise, shall have virtuall exempted any devisee from his liability for the payment 0 the
debts with the others, or shall [have] by any provision in his
will, required any appropriation of his estate, or any part of it,
for the payment of his debts, different from that prescribed in
this section, in which case the estate shall be applied in conformity with the provisions of the will.

Sec. 11. Whenever any part of the real estate of a testator
is left undevised, by his will, and his personal estate shall be
insufficient for the payment of his debts, the undevised real
estate shall be first chargeable with debts, in exoneration, as
far as it will go, of the real estate that is devised, unless it
shall appear from the will that a different disposition of the
assets for the payment of his debts was made b the testator,
when they shall, for that pur se, be disposed o in conformity
with the provisions of the will?

Sec. 12. Nothing herein contained, shall, in any way,
affect the liability of the estate of the testator for the payment
of his debts.

Sec. 13. Whenever any estate, real or personal, shall be
devised to any decedent of the testator, and such devisee shall
die durin the lifetime of the testator, leaving a descendant
who sha l survive such testator, such devise shall not
lapse, but the property so devised shall vest in the surviving
descendant of the devisee, as if such devisee had survived the
testator, and died intestate.

Sec. 14. The naming of any executor in a will, shall not
operate as a discharge of an just claim which the testator
had against such executor, ut the same shall be settled according to law.

S30. 15. Whenever any person shall have devised his
estate, or any part thereof, and any of his real estate subject
to a mortgage, executed by such testator, shall descend to an
heir, or pass to a devisee, and no specific direction is given in
the will for the payment of such mortgage, the same shall be
discharged as ‘follows:

First. If such testator- shall have char ed any particular
part of his estate, real or personal, with the payment of his
debts, such mortgage shall be considered a part of such debts.

Second. If the will contains no direction as to what part of
his estate shall be taken for the ayment of his debts, and any
part of his personal estate shal be unbequeathed or undisof by his will, such mortg e shall be included among
his debts, to be discharged out 0 such estate unbequeathed,
or undisposed of.

Sec. 16. The dischar e of any demand of the testator
against any person, shal be construed only as a specific
bequest of such demand, and the amount thereof shall be
included in the inventory of the effects of the deceased, and,
if necessary be applied to the payment of his debts, and, if
not necessary for that purpose, shall be paid in the same
manner as other specific legacies.

Sec. 17. The title of any lands or interest therein urchased in good faith and for a valuable consideration, mm
the heirs at law of any person who shall have died seized of
real estate, shall not be impaired by virtue of any devise made

by such person of the real estate so urchased, unless the will
or codicil containing such devise shal have been fully proved,
and recorded in the office of the clerk of the court having
jurisdiction, within three years after the death of the testator,
exce t: .

Figxt. Where the devisee shall have been within the age
of twenty-one years, of unsound mind, imprisoned, or out of
the State at the death of such testator; or, .

Second. Where it shall appear that the existence of such
will or codicil, shall have been concealed from, or unknown
to such devisee: In which cases, the limitation specified in this section shall
not commence until after the expiration of one year from the
time such disability shall have been removed or such will or
codicil shall have come into the control of such devises or his
representative, or have been deposited in the clerk’s office of
the proper court of common pleas.

Execution and Probate of Wills.

S30. 18. No will except a noncupative will shall aEect
any estate, unless it be in writing, signed by the testator, or
or by some one in his presence, with his consent, and attested
and subscribed in his presence by two or more competent
witnesses; and if the witnesses are competent at the time of
attesting, their subsequent incompetency shall not prevent
the probate thereof.

Sec. 19. No will in writing, nor any part thereof, except
as in this act provided, shall be revoked, unless the testator
or some other person in his presence, and by his direction
with intent to revoke, shall destroy, or mutilate the same, or
such testator shall execute other writing for that purpose,
signed, subscribed and attested, as required in the preceding
section. And if, after the making of any will, the testator
shall execute a second, a revocation of the second shall not
revive the first will, unless it shall appear by the terms of such
revocation to have been his intent to revive it; or, unless
after such revocation he shall duly republish the previous will.

Sec. 20. No noncupative will shall be valid when more
than the value of one hundred dollars is bequeathed, nor
unless it be made in the last sickness of the testator, and the
subject thereof is reduced to writing within fifteen days after
it shall have been declared and proved by two competent witnesses, who shall have heard the testator in effect request some
of those present to bear witness thereto, and no such noncupative will shall be proved after six months from the death of
the testator, nor until his widow and heirs shall have reasonable notice of the time and place of proving the same.

Snc. 21. Nothing contained in this article, shall prevent
any soldier, in actual military service, nor any mariner, at
sea, from disposing of his personal estate, in his actual possession, and his wages, by a noncupative will.

Sec. 22. Upon the death of any testator, any person
interested in any part of the estate s ecified in his will, may
have such will proven in the court olp common pleas, when
in session, or before the clerk thereof in vacation.

Sec. 23. Proof of last wills may be taken in any county,

First. Where the testator, immediately previous to his
death, was an inhabitant of such county.

Second. When the testator not being an inhabitant of
this State, shall die in such county, leaving assets therein.

Third. Where the testator, not being an inhabitant of
this State, shall die out of this State, leaving assets in such
county.

Fourth. Where a testator, not being an inhabitant of this
State, shall die out of the State, not leaving assets in such
county, but assets of such testator shall come into the county
thereafter.

Sac. 24. Witnesses may be summoned by subpoena, to
be issued by the clerk of the court of common pleas, to appear
and testify respecting the execution, subscribing, and attestation of such will.

Sec. 25. On the application to such court of common
pleas, of any person interested, the clerk thereof shall issue
a citation to any person alleged to have the custod of any
will, requiring such person to produce the same be ore such
court, at such time as the court shall deem reasonable, that
the same may be duly proven; and any person havin , such
will in his possession, who without just cause, shal after
such citation, fail to produce such will, may be committed to
the jail of the county, by an order of the court, there to
remain until he produce such will, or shall be discharged by
the further order of the court, and shall, moreover, be liable
to any person interested in such will for the damages occasioned by withholding the same.

Sec. 26. The person alle ed to have the custody of any;
will, shall not be committeg to jail, if he file his aiiidavit;
that such will was never in his possession, or that he parted‘
with its custody before the service of such citation, to some
person, naming the person, without any intention to defeat
or delay probate thereof.

Sec. 27. Before a written will shall be admitted to probate‘
or letters testamentary, or administration with the will an-l
nexed, shall be gran ted thereon, such will shall be proven bcyl
one or more of the subscribing witnesses, or if they be dea ,
out of the ‘State, or have become incompetent from any cause

since attesting such will, then by proof of the handwriting
of the testator, or of the subscribing witnesses thereto.

Sec. 28. If none of the subscribing witnesses to a will be
produced, their subsequent incompetency, death or absence
from the State, shall be proven, before evidence of the handwriting of the testator, or of any of the subscribin witnesses, shall be received, and such evidence shall be ta en in the
same manner as on a trial at law.

»Snc. 29. If any person shall be a subscribing witness to
the execution of any will in which any interest is passed to
him, and such will cannot be proven without his testimony,
or proof of his signature thereto as a witness, such will shall
be void only as to him, and persons claiming under him; and
he shall be compellable to testify respecting the execution of
such will, as if no such interest had been passed to him; but
if he would otherwise have been entitled to a distributive share
of the testator’s estate, then so much of said estate as said
witness would have been thus entitled to, not exceedin the
value of such interest passed to him by such will, shal be
saved to him.

See. 30. If it shall appear from the proof taken, that the
will was duly executed, the testator at the time of executing
the same competent to devise his property, and not under
coercion, such testimony shall be written down,subscribed by
the witness examined, and attested by said clerk with his signature and seal of office; and the will with such testimony
and attestation, shall be recorded by such clerk in a book kept
for that purpose, and certified by him to be a complete record.

See. 31. Every will so proven, shall have a certificate

indorsed thereon, or attached thereto, substantially statin
that it has been admitted to probate; that a complete recorg
of it and the testimony of the witnesses, has been duly
recorded; the names of such witnesses, and the title and p e
of the book in which it is recorded, which certificate shall
attested by the signature of the clerk of such court, and his
official seal.
. SEC. 32. Every will so authenticated, or a complete copy
:of the record thereof, certified by the clerk in whose custody
it may be, and attested by his signature and official seal, may
be read in evidence without further proof.

Sec. 33. Upon the refusal of the clerk of the court ‘ of
‘common pleas to admit a will to probate, application therefore
may be made to said court.

Foreign Wills.

Sec. 34. Any written will that shall have been proven or
allowed in any other of the United States, or in any foreign

country, according to the laws of such State or country, may
be received and recorded in this State, in the manner and for
the purpose mentioned in the next two following sections.

Sac. 35. Such will shall be duly certified under the seal:
of the court or officer takin such proof; or, a copy of such‘
will, and the probate thereog shall be duly certified under the
seal of his court or office, by the clerk, prothonotary, or
surrogate who has the custody or probate thereof, and such
certificate shall be attested and certified to be authentic and
by the proper officer, by the presiding or sole judge of the
court, by whose clerk or prothonotary such certificate shall
have been made, or if such will was admitted to probate
before any officer, being his own clerk, his certificate of such
will or record shall be attested and certified to be authentic,
and by the proper officer, by the presiding or sole judge,
chancellor, or vice-chancellor, of the court having supervision
of the acts of such officer.

Sec. 36. Such will or copy, and the probate thereof, may:
be produced by any person interested therein, to the court of I
common pleas of the county in which there is any estate, on
which the will may operate, and if said court shall be satisfied that the instrument ought to be allowed as the last will
of the deceased, such court shall order the same to be filed
and recorded by the clerk; and thereupon such will shall
have the same effect as if it had been originally admitted to
probate, and recorded in this State.

Sec. 37. No will executed in this State, and proven or' allowed in any other State or country, shall be admitted to?

probate within this State, unless executed according to the:
aws of this State.

’ Contesting the validity and Probate of Wills.

Sec. 38. If, prior to the admission of any will to probate
before the clerk of the court of common pleas, objection
thereto, in writing, verified by his affidavit, alleging that the
same is not made for vexation or delay, be filed by any
person with such clerk, he shall continue the same until the
succeeding term of the court, when, if the person contesting
such will, fail to resist the probate thereof the judge of such
court may admit such will to probate; but if such objection
be made before such court, reasonable time shall be allowed
to the party making the same to resist the probate of such
Will.

See. 39. Any person may contest the validity of any
will, or resist the probate thereof, at any time within three
years after the same has been offered for probate, by filing in
the court of common pleas of the county where the testator

proof of the publication of notice made after the filing before
said clerk of an affidavit of a disinterested person that the
person so notified is not a resident of the State, or that his
residence is unknown, such ublication being made for three
weeks successively in a wee ly newspaper printed and published in the county, or, if none be published in such county,
then in the county nearest thereto, thirty days before the
hearing of the cause, the court may proceed to hear and determine such cause; and if any of the defendants thereto are
minors, the court shall appoint guardians to take care of their
interests in the controversy.

Sec. 41. The final determination of such cause against the
plaintifff, shall not debar any other person from contesting
such will, within said three years.

See. 42. If such determination be against the validit of
such will, or the competency of the proof, the court s all
refuse or revoke the probate thereof; but, if it be in favor of
the validity and due execution of such will, probate thereof
shall be admitted or ratified. "

Sec. 43. Any party aggrieved by the decision of such
court, may appeal therefrom to the circuit court of the proper county, by filing with the clerk of the court of common
pleas of such county, a bond, with sufficient sureties, to be
approved by such clerk, in a penal sum double the amount of
the costs accrued, and likely to accrue in such cause, and
conditioned for the due prosecution of such appeal, and the
payment of all the costs thereof, if judgment thereon be_
awarded against him.

Sec. 44. Such circuit court may permit the parties in such
appeal to bring additional parties before the court, to amend
the proceedings, allegations and pleadings therein, and such
cause shall be tried in the same manner as if it had been
originally commenced in such circuit court.

SEC. 45. Any person affected by the proceedings of such
courts may appeal or prosecute a writ of error to the supreme
court from either, and may assign errors upon matters of fact
and law.

Snc. 46. The determination of such supreme court, upon
such writ of error, or upon such appeal, shall be certified back
to the court from which the writ was prosecuted, or the appeal taken, with directions as to what orders the court shall
make in the premises.

Sec. 47. Infants, persons absent from the State, or of
unsound mind, shall have two years after their disabilities are
removed to contest the validity or due execution of such
will.

SIC. 48. Before any proceedings shall be had on an application to contest a wil after probate thereof, theperson making the same, or some other person in his behalf shall file a
bond, with sullicient sureties, in such amount as shall be approved by the clerk of such court of common pleas, conditioned for the due prosecution of such proceedings, and for
the payment of all costs thereon, in case judgment be awarded against him.

Sac. 49. If such cause be decided against the defendants
therein, the court may make such orders as to the payment
of the costs thereof, as it may deem just.

Sec. 50. Whenever the probate of -any will shall be revoked as herein provided, the clerk of the proper court shall

record such revocation in his record of wills and probate
thereof, and attest the same; and shall cause a notice thereof
to be served by the sheriff on the executors or administrators
with the will annexed, if letters shall have been issued; and
cause notice thereof to be published for three weeks successively in a newspaper printed in his county, if one shall be
printed therein; and the expenses for the record, notice, service thereof, and publication, shall be taxed as a part of the
costs of the proceedings against the party liable for the costs,
under the determination of the court in which the same shall
have been finally determined.

Sec. 51. Whenever any will shall have been lost or delstroyed, and the same shall have been established according

to law, the decree of the court establishing such will shall be
recorded in the proper book thereof, by the clerk of the proper court in which such will might have been proved if not
lost or destroyed; and letters testamentary, or of administration with the will annexed, shall be issued thereon, in the
same manner as upon wills duly proved before such court, or
the clerk thereof, and letters of administration previously

ranted upon the same estate shall be revoked; but the court
before which proceedings to contest the validity, due execution, or to prove such will, or to establish a lost or destroyed

will, shall have authority to restrain the executor or administrator in the mean time acting, from any proceedin s which
it may judge in'urious to the heirs or devisees of the eceased.

Sec. 52. A ter the service of such restraining order, such
administrator, executor, or administrator with the will annexed, shall suspend all proceedings in relation to the estate
of the testator, exce t the collection and recovery of monies,
and the payment 0 debts, and the performance of such duties, in the disposal of the property of such estate, not inconsistent with the rights of the parties interested in such estate,
whether the will in controversy or the probate thereof
should be defeated or established, until a decision be had of
such case.

SIC. 53. No will of any testator shall be allowed to be;
proven and established as lost or destroyed, unless the same;
shall-be proven to have been in existence at the time of the
death of the testator; or be shown to have been destroyed
in the lifetime of the testator without his consent or otherwise fraudulently disposed of; nor unless the provisions shall
be clearly proven by two witnesses, or by a correct copy and
the testimony of one witness.

Sec. 54. The record of the testimony taken and recorded ..
pursuant to the provisions of this act, and exempliiications of :'
such record by the officer in whose custody the same may he,
shall be received as evidence upon any controvers concerning any lands devised by such will, and shall be o the same
force and effect upon the trial of such controversy, and may
be rebutted, impeached and sustained in like manner, as if
taken in open court, if the witnesses examined when probate
was allowed, are dead, out of the State, or have become
incompetent since the admission of such will to probate.

Sec. 55. The term “will” as used in this act shall be1
construed to include all wills, testaments, codicils and supple-‘
mental wills.

Sec. 56. The rovisions of this act in relation to proof 1
and probate of wil s and the proceedings in respect to estalish-E
ing or contesting the validity of any will, shall apply as well
to wills made previous, as to those made subsequent, to the
time when this act shall take effect.

S30. 57. Nothing contained in the provisions of this act,
shall be construed to impair the validity of any will made‘,
before this act shall take effect, in conformity with any law
in force at the time of the execution of such will.

CHAPTER 12.

an ACT touehingthe relation of Guardian and Ward. T

‘ [Arrnovxn Juan 9, 1852.]

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly qf the
State qf Indiana, The court having probate jurisdiction in
each county, in term time or the clerk thereof in vacation,
shall appoint guardians of minors resident in such county, or
having estate therein, and in case of contlict between two
appointments in different counties. the one first made shall

I Sac. 5. Such guardian’s bond shall not be void on account
of any informality, illegality, or defect, either formal or substantial, in the same, nor on account of any defect, informality, or illegality in the appointment of such guardian; but
shall have the same force and effect as if such appointment
had been le ally made, and such bond legally executed.

Sm. 6. ilvery guardian so appointed shall have the custody and tuition of such minor, and the management of such
minor’s estate during minority, unless sooner removed or discharged from such trust: Provided, that..the father of such
minor, or if there be no father, the mother, if suitable persons respectively, shall have the custody of the person and
the control of the education of such minor. ""

Sec. 7. When a guardian has been appointed by will, by

:a father or mother of any child, such guardian shall be entitled to preference in appointments over all others without
reference to his place of residence, or the choice of such
minor, but his appointment, and duties and powers, shall in
all other respects be governed by the law regulating guardians not appointed by will.

. Sec. 8. All courts shall have power to appoint a guardian
ad litem to defend the interests of any minor imp eaded in
any suit; .and to permit any person as next friend to prosecute any suit in any minor’s behalf.

Sec. 9. It shall be the duty of every guardian of any minor:

First. To make out and file within three months after his
appointment, a full inventory, verified by oath, of the real
and personal estate of his ward, with the value of the same,
and the valde of the yearly rent of the real estate; and failing
so to do, it shall be the duty of the proper court to remove
him, and appoint a successor.

Second. To manage the estate for the best interest of his’

ward.

Third. To render on oath to the proper court an account .

of,his receipts and expenditures as such guardian, verified b
-vouchers or proof at least once in every two years; and fai ing so to do, [he shall] receive no allowance for services, and
be liable to his said ward on his bond for ten per cent. in
damages on the whole amount of estate, both real and personal, in his hands belonging to such ward.

Fourth. At the expiration of his trust, fully to account for
and pay over to the proper person, all of the estate of said
ward remaining in his hands.

Fifth. To pay all just debts due from such ward, out of
the estate in his hands, and collect all debts due such ward;

and in case of doubtful debts, to compound the same, and appear for and defend, or cause to be defended, all suits against
such ward.’

Sixth. When any ward has no father or mother, or such
father or mother is unable, or fails to educate such ward, it
shall be the duty of his guardian to provide for him such education as the amount of his estate may justify.

Size. 10. The proper court may, on application of a guardian, or of any other other person, said guardian having notice
thereof, order and decree any change to be made in the investment of the estate of any ward, that may to such court
seem advanta eous to such estate.

Sec. 11. he court, by whom or by whose clerk any

guardian has been or may be appointed, may at any time‘

remove such guardian, be having five days’ notice thereof, for
habitual drunkenness, neglect of his duties, incompetency,
fraudulent conduct, removal from the county, or any other
cause which, in the opinion of such court, renders it for the
interest of the ward that such guardian should be removed.1'

Sec. 12. The marriage of any female ward to a person of ;
full age, shall operate as a legal discharge of her guardianship; A

and her guardian shall account to the husband of such ward
in the same manner as if she had arrived at full age.

Size. 13. Any bond given by any guardian, may be put in‘
t

suit by any person enti ed to the estate; and such suit shall
be governed by the law regulating suits on the bonds of
executors and administrators.1

Sac. 14. Whenever necessary for the education, support

or payment of the just debts of any minor, or for the discharge of any liens on the real estate of such minor, or
whenever the real estate of such minor is suffering unavoid
able waste, or a better investment _of the value thereof can be

made, the proper court may, on the application of such guardian, order the same or a part thereof, to be sold.

Sec. 15. Such application shall set forth specifically,

First. The value and character of all personal estate
belonging to such ward that has come to the knowledge or
possession of such guardian.

Second. The disposition made of such personal estate.

Third. The amount and condition of_ the ward’s personal
estate, if any, dependent upon the settlement of any estate,
or the execution of any trust.

Fourth. The annual value of the real estate of the ward.

Fifth. The amount of rent received and the application
thereof.

’ Sixth. The proposed manner of reinvesting the proceeds
of the sale, if asked for that purpose.

Seventh. Each item of indebtedness, or the amount and
character of the lien, if the sale is prayed for the liquidation
thereof.

Eighth. The age of the ward, where and with whom
residing. .

Ninth. All other facts connected with the estate and condition of the ward necessary to enable the court to fully
understand the same. If there is no personal estate belonging
to such ward in possession, or expectancy, and none has come
into the hands of such guardian, and no rents have been received, the fact shall be stated in the application.‘

See. 16. Upon such application being filed in writing,

rveriiied by the oath of the guardian, the court, if satisfied

of the propriety of selling such real estate, shall appoint

two freeholders of the county, to appraise said real estate.1'
Sac. 17. Said appraisers shall take an oath to truly and

impartially appraise said premises at their fair cash value;

Ste. 20. The court may empower such guardian to make
sale of such real estate, or may appoint a commissioner or
commissioners for that purpose.

Sec. 21. At the term of the court next after such sale,
such guardian or commissioner shall make report thereof to
such court, and produce the proceeds of sale, and the notes
or obligations, or other securities taken to secure the payment of the purchase money.‘

Sac. 22. Whenever such real estate is ordered by the
court to be sold at private sale, the same shall not be sold for
less than its appraised value, and when ordered to be sold at
public auction for not less than two thirds of its appraised
value.

Sec. 23. The court in confirming such sale, and directing
a conveyance, shall be governed by the law regulating the
confirming of sales of real estate made by executors or administrators, and the making of conveyances on such sales.'|'

Sec. 24. The guardian of any minor may join in, and assent to, a partition of the real estate of such minor under the
direction of the court upon a petition for partition. I

Sac. 25. Every guardian shall be allowed, by the court
settling his accounts, the amount of all his reasonable expenses
incurred in the execution of his trust; and also such compensation for his services as the court shall deem reasonable.

Sec. 26. Sureties in the bond of any guardian may be
discharged from future liability therein under the same rules

petition it is alleged that their names are unknown to the
petitioner, and such non-residence or want of knowledge be
verified by affidavit, or if it shall appear, by affidavit or by the
return of the oiiicer having such summons to serve, that the
residence of such defendants is unknown, the clerk shall order
notice of the pendency of such petition to be given for three
weeks successively in some newspaper printed in such county,
or if there be none, then in a newspaper printed in this State
nearest thereto. .

Sec. 4. It appearing to the court that such summons has
been served ten days before the first day of the term, and
when publication as aforesaid is required, that the same has
been made thirty days previous to such term, the court shall
proceed to hear and determine‘ such petition. ,

Sec. 5. Any person interested in such estate, may appear
and plead any matter tending to show that the petitioners
ought not to have partition as prayed for; and the further
pleadings‘ shall be conducted as in actions at common law,
until an issue in law or in fact shall be joined, which shall be
determined as in other cases.

Sec. 6. Amendments of etition or pleadings may be made
as in other suits at law, am? on like terms; and new arties
may be made,and the cause continued until they can be legally
notified. .

Sn-c. 7. If any person, not named in the petition, shall
appear and plead as a defendant, or allege any title to any
part of the premises, the petitioner may rep y that such person
has no estate in the premises, and may pray judgment if he
shall be admitted to object to the petition; and the petitioner
may likewise reply in answer to such plea, any other matter,
in like manner as if he had not disputed such person’s right to
appear. , ‘A

Sec. 8. If it shall appear that such person has no estate in
the lands, the matter of his plea shall be no further inquired of.

Sec. 9. If upon trial of any issue, or upon default, or by
confession or consent of parties, it shall appear that partition
ought to be made, the court shall award an interlocutory
judgment that partition be made to parties who may desire
the same, specifying therein the share assigned to each, and
taking into consideration advancements to heirs of a person
dyin intestate; and the residue of the premises shall remain
for the persons entitled thereto, subject to a future partition.‘

Sm. 10. Such court shall not order or ailirm partition of
any real estate contrary to the intention of a testator, expressed in his Will.

Sec. 11. Upon judgment of partition, the court shall appoint three disinterested resident freeholders of the county in
which such court is held, not of kin to any of the parties, who
shall make partition of such lands, in pursuance of the judgment of the court.‘

Sec. 12. Before proceeding to dischar their duties, such
commissioners shall take an oath faithfudley to perform the
duties of their trust, which oath, if taken in open court, shall
be entered in their order book, and if not, shall be indorsed on
the warrant issued to them to. make such artition.

Sec. 13. Two or more persons may, ' they choose, have
their shares set otf together.

Sec. 14. In all proceedings under this act, guardians may
at? for their wards as their wards might have acted, being
0 e. 1'

Sang. 15. The commissioners shall make to the court, and
acknowledge in open court, their report, specifying by
divisions, or by metes and bounds, each share.

See. 16. Such report, if confirmed by the court, shall be

spread upon the order book, and judgment of partition be’

rendered accordingly. And such report and judgment shall
also be recorded in a separate book, kept for that purpose.

See. 17. The court, before coniirmation, may set aside
such return for good cause shown, and commit the duty of
partition anew to the same, or other commissioners, to be
appointed and qualified as aforesaid, whereupon the same
proceedings shall be had as are before directed.

Sec. 18. When such commissioners shall report to the
court, that the whole or part of the lands of which partition
is demanded, cannot be divided Without damage to the owners, the court, in its discretion, may order the whole, or such
part of the premises, to be sold, at public or private sale, on
such terms and conditions as it may prescribe: Provided,
that, at public sale, such land shall sell for at least twothirds" of its appraised value, ‘and, at private sale,‘ at not
less than its appraised value; to be ascertained as in cases of
sales of land on execution. And if a part only be sold, the
remainder may be partitioned, subject to the rules hereinbefore provided.

Sec. 19. If under such partial partition, duly confirmed,
the shares assigned be full shares, the residue reserved for
sale shall be discharged from all title or claim of the parties
so receiving assi ment of their shares.

Sec. 20. Sue sale shall be made by a commissioner to
be appointed by the court, other than one of the commissioners to make partition; and such commissioner shall file
bond payable to the State of Indiana in such penalty as the
court may direct, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the
duties of his trust.

Sec. 21. Whenever it shall appear to the court that the
purchase-money for the land sold has been duly paid, the
court shall order such commissioner, or some other person,
to execute conveyances to the purchaser, which shall bar all
claim of such owners to said lands as effectually as-if they
themselves had executed the same.

Sec. 22. Commissioners to make partition, or to sell, shall
not become purchasers of said land.

Sec. 23. The monies arisin from such sale after payment
of just costs and expenses, shal be paid by such commissioner
to the persons entitled thereto, according to their respective
shares, under the direction of the court.

Sec. 24. Any two of the persons named as commissioners
to make partition may perform the duties required by this act;
and vacancies may be filled by the court.

Sec. 25. The occurrence of a vacancy shall not invalidate
the previous acts of the commissioners; and a successor shall
take up and continue the proceedings, which shall be as valid

as if the same had been done by the commissioners first
appointed.

Sac. 26. If any party to such partition die, the proceedings therein shall not abate, except as to him; nor shall the
same abate as to him, if the heirs of such decedent are
made parties instead, and such heirs may be made new
parties.

Sec. 27. Such court shall make such allowance to the
c()1nmi.~.:.~:iuI1e1‘s for tl1L'.ll' st-1'vit"c&;, uml l't1»1'.-'tI1‘\'(:yi11;__§, In:trl\'i1_1;__r,
ch:1i11in_<__:, ]'r|:.1ttin_1,f, and the (_‘?(t'.t'_.‘llIli_)Il 01' the 11(2(fL<ss;11'_\' convcy:;111(:L-.-; 11:; in .~'.m,:l'1 (:nL11't shall wen} 1'e;.1sun:1h|e.

b'I~:(:. 25. All t-.r.a.=;t.'s' and 11e«_'.c.»';~'a1'y CX[)til1sC.~; shall he :1w:u'ded,zu1(lcI'1h')1'(:ml i11 l':1\-'01‘ oi‘ tlmse entitled tl1(:1‘ct:;a, :_1§_=f:riI1:s't
the p:1rtiti0m:1\.:, in suwzh [)1'(_a1'ml‘ih_)1'1 :'L‘g:1i11st (_‘Z1(Jll as the CUl1l‘l
may :h_~.tc1'minc.

SEC. :39. Upon Shem-'ir1;_': :~'11tlir:ient «muse :1n_vpe1'snn not
S€:I‘\'(:(l with .~4ur:1um11:- n1:1_\', within one _v(::11' ill.lt';‘I' 5:111:11 partition is t,'t_'!I1lll'!ll(_‘.tl ztpps.-:11‘ and open the p1'm:c:c¢li11;__g.~;and nhtain
:1 1'e\'i(:w t|1e1'cni',:1ml :1l.~;u :1n_y peI‘:=u11 ml‘ 11ns'ouml mind or
any lllllilllt \\'lm.~'c gu:mli:_111 tlicl not atteml {lllll :1pprn\'<_- .H.‘l1I_‘,ll
pill'l.lllL)ll3 1113)’: within 0110 .V'u:11' 211101‘ the 1'C‘ll'It)\'1ll of his (listlbilit}-', h:1vc u 1'cvie.w of 51.1011 p:1rtiti<_m. -"

" Sec 53 Curl-.-r's lmi. lisp. 17,35, 353.

CII.:\I"'l‘l:‘.R 14.

AN ACT (lL'-fiI1in_-__: who arw }1t‘T.--0113' uftIn.~inu11d min:l.:1m_l :11Itl1r1riziI1;; tlur appointlnvnt nf gL1:Lr«.li:u1.~a fur .-1Ut'll ])1'I'S4_II'|.--‘I tlvIiI1iI1j__; the pfmw-r.-.' aml (l'1li».-3 of
such gI_I:1I‘tli£Ln.-i; (l-.-clarirag; void the rm1truct~; of pa-r.~enu~< of llllsnlllnl mind,
and pruviuling fur their I'|_':-lI‘£l.lI]L when nt-co:-asary.

[Arraovnn MAY 29, 1852.]

Sncrrox 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly cf the
State qf Indiana, The words, “persons of unsound mind,” as
used in this act or any other statute of this State shall be
taken to mean any idiot, non compos, lunatic, monomaniac,
or distracted person. 1‘

Sec. 2. Whenever any person shall by statement in wri- :
ting, represent to the court having probate jurisdiction, in;

any county, that any inhabitant of such county is a person
of unsound mind and incapable of managing his own estate;
such court shall cause such person to be produced in court,
and shall cause an issue to be made by the clerk of such court,
denying the facts set forth in such statement, which issue
shall be tried by a jury to be empanneled under the direction
of said court. .~

Sec. 3. If such jur shall find that such inhabitant is a
person of unsound mind’, such court shall appoint a guardian
for such person, who shall have the custody of his person and
the management of his estate, and before entering upon his
duties as such, he shall give bond and security and take an
oath as such guardian, in like manner as is required of the
guardian of a minor; Provided, that if such insane person is
a pauper, he shall be [rovided for under the laws regulating
the relief of the poor, but if such person, being a pan er,
shall be dangerous, if permitted to run at large, he shal be
provided for under the regulations prescribed in section 12 of
this act. "‘

Sec. 4. If the court shall be satisfied that such person alleged to be of unsound mind cannot without injury to his
health be produced in court, such personal appearance may
be dispensed with.

Sec. 5. Whenever a guardian shall be appointed for an
person of unsound mind, he shall pay the expenses of sue
trial, but if the jury find that such person is not of unsound
mind, then the court shall give judgment against the person
making the complaint for the costs.

Sec. 6. Whenever any person not an inhabitant of this
State, but having property in this State, shall by inquest held
and determined according to the laws of the State where
such person may reside, be found to be a person of unsound
mind; the court having probate jurisdiction in any county of
this State, where any of such property may be found; may
appoint a guardian for such person, who shall have the management of such person’s estate in this State, and the guardianship so first granted shall exclude all others.

Sec. 7. Whenever any person of unsound mind, shall be
the owner of property in any county of the State, other than
the one in which such person resides, (or being an inhabitant
of another State,) upon satisfactory proof thereof, verified
by oath or affirmation of at least two competent witnesses,
that such person is believed to be incapable of transacting
his or her business; and that such property is going to waste,
or likely to go to waste; the court having probate jurisdiction in such county, shall appoint a guardian for such person,
who shall have the management of such estate, until a guardian be legally appointed in the county where such person of
unsound mind may reside, or until the same be restored.

Sec. 8. The same duties are required of, and the samel
powers granted to, guardians of persons of unsound mind as‘
are required of, and granted to guardians of minors, so far
as the same may be applicable. "‘

“Sec. 9. Such guardianship shall terminate with the resto-1
ration to reason, or death of the ward. '

Sec. 10. Whenever . it is alleged that such person of }
unsound mind has become of sound mind again, the fact mayi
be tried and determined in the same manner as the allegation
of the unsoundness of mind; and the expenses of such trial
shall be paid by such guardian out of the estate of the ward.

See. 11. Every contract, sale or conveyance of any«
person, while a person of unsound mind shall be void.1' ‘

Sac. 12. If it shall appear to the court, that there is‘
danger to the community in permitting such person of I
unsound mind to run at large, the court shall make such}
order for his safekeeping as may be necessary, and direct the1
expenses thereof to be paid out of the estate of such person,
or if that be insufficient, or, necessary for the support of his
family, then out of the county treasury.

* See ante, p. 324, R. 8. vol. 2.

j» The objection to a deed of conveyance on the round of the grsntor’s
insanit , is the proper subject of inquiry for a jury.— 41. Sutton vs. Reagan
stal., Blackf.217.

CHAPTER. 15.

AN ACT concerning the Assignment of Judgments and Decrees.t
[Arrnovnn M.u° 13, 1852.]

SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State of Indiana, That judgments and decrees of a court of l
«record, for the recovery of money, and judgments obtained
before a justice of the peace, may be assi ned by the plaintifff
or complainant, and the assignees thereo successively, on, or
attached to, the entry of such judgment or decree, and the
assignment when attested by the clerk of the court, or such
justice of the peace, shall vest the title to such judgment or
decree in each assignee thereof successively§

V’-EESOBBNO amount of property from-seizure or sale, for
the payment of any debt or liability hereafter contracted ”
i thereforee :t .

Sncnotrl. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State qf Indiana, That an amount of property not exceeding
in value three hundred dollars, owned by any resident house
holder,_shall not be liable to sale on execution, or any other

“final rocess from a court, for any debt growing out of, or

foun ed upon a contract, express or implied, after the fourth
‘ July eighteen hundred and fifty-two. "" l

T . 2. The property may be real or personal, or both as

the debtor may elect. t

See. 3. No mortg e or sale of any real estate, exempted,
under the provisions 0 this act, shall be valid if executed by;
a married man, unless the deed be acknowledged by the wife;
in due form of law. <

Sec. 4. Such exemption shall not affect any laborer’s or
mechanic's liens, nor lien for purchase-money of real estate
exempted under this act.

Sec. 5. For the appraisement of any property to be‘
egdtmpted-under the provisions of this act, two disinterested
houit holders of the neighborhood shall be chosen, one by
¢he'plaintiffl', his agent or attorney, and one by the executiondebt¥5 and these two, in case of disagreement, shall select a
third, and in case either party fails to select an appraiser, the
same shall be selected by the officer holding the execution.

Sec. 6. Such appraiser shall proceed forthwith to make a 5
schedule of the real and personal property selected by the:
debtor, describing the real estate by metes and bounds, and
the personal property by separate items, affixing to each the
value they may agree upon, and they or a majority of them,
shall affix to. the schedule so made, on affidavit in substance
as follows: “ We the undersigned, swear that in our opin"lon,
the above is a just cash valuation of the property therein
described.”

~- Sec. 7. Such schedule shall be delivered to the officerg
holding the execution or other process, and shall be by him;

returned with such execution, or other process, and made
part of such return. ‘ .

Sec. 8. Each appraiser, for his services, shall be allowed
the sum of fifty cents, to be paid by the execution-debtor.

Sec. 9. If any execution-debtor shall claim property as
exempted by virtue of this act, he shall elect whether he will
claim personal, or real property, or both, and shall designate
the property so claimed.

Sec. 10. If such claim include personal property only,
the oiiicer holding such execution shall cause the same to beappraised and set apart to the debtor, and shall proceed to
sell such other property, if any, as may be «liable to said writ,
accordin to law.

Sec. 1 . If any such claim include both personal and real
property, the officer shall proceed to have such pasonal
property valued, and shall set the same apart. to the
debtor; he shall then cause the real property claimed as
aforesaid to be valued, and if the same, together with the
personal property set apart, shall exceed three hundred dollure, the debtor shall, within sixty days tbareafter, pay such
excess or enough to satisfy the execution, and if he fail to
do so, the oiiicer shall proceed to sell the same as other lands
are sold on execution, if his writ shall authorize the sale of
real property, but in making such sale, he shall receive no
bid therefore, unless it exceed the difference between three
hundred dollars and the personal property so valued and set
apart; and if he shall sel said property, he shall, pay over to
the debtor the amount of said difference, and apply so much
of the remainder on the‘ execution as shall satisfy the same,
and the overplus, if any, shall be paid to the debtor or other
party having the next right.

.. Sac. 12. If the claim include real property only, the same
shall be valued, and if it exceed three hundred dollars, it
shall be dealt with as is specified in respect to real property,
in the last preceding section. .

V See. 13. In all cases in which real property is sought to

1. be exempted from sale on execution, if said real property is

" susceptible of division by metes and bounds, without material
injury thereto, it shall be so divided as to exempt the principal dwellin house, or homestead of the debtor.

Sec. 14. othing in this act shall be considered as exempting any property from taxation or from sale for taxes.

CHAPTER 17.

AN ACT in relation to the construction of Statutes and the dehnition of
terms.

[A1-1-novnn J Inn: 18, 1852.]

Snc-rrox 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the]
State qf Indiana, That the construction of all statutes of this'
State, shall be by the following rules, unless such construction
be plainly repugnant to the intent of the Legislature, or of
the context of the same statute. First. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,‘
or ordinary, and usual sense. But technical words and phra-1
ses having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law, shall
be understood according to t eir technical import.

Second. Words importing joint authority to three or more.
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such
persons, unless otherwise declared in the law giving such
authority.

Third. The word “highway” shall include county bridges, State and county‘ roads, unless otherwise expressly provided.

Fourth. The word “inhabitant” may be constred to mean‘
a resident in any place.

Fifth. The word “ month ” shall mean a calendar month,j
and the word “ year” shall mean a calendar year, unless otherwise expressed, and the word “year,” be equivalent to the
words “year of our Lord.” Sixth. The words “ preceding,” and “following,” referringto sections in statutes, shall be understood as meaning the}
sections next preceding or next following that in which such
words occur, unless some other section is designated.

Seventh. The word “State" applied to any one of the‘
United States, shall include the District of Columbia and the
several territories; and the words “ United States ” shall
include the said District and territories.

Eighth. The word “will” shall include the words “ testa-'
ment” and “codicil."

Ninth. The words “written” and “in writing,” shall:
include printing, lithographing, or other mode of representing
words and letters. But in al cases where the written signature of any person is required, the proper hand wr ting
of such person or his mark shall be intended.

Tenth. When a statute re uires an act to be done which by.
law an agent or deputy as wel may do as the principal, such‘

CHAPTER 18. C

AN ACT supplemental to an act entitled “An act to revise. simplify and
abridge the rules of Practice, Pleading: and Forms in civil cases in the

— Courts of this State.”
[A1-rnovnn J Inn: 18, 1852.]

To Abridge the form: in civil and Criminal Actions.

Sncnon 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the
State qf Indiana, That in all proceedings in civil and
criminal actions, the following forms may be used, and are
suiiicient, in all cases where they are applicable, and in other
cases forms may be used as nearly similar as the nature of
the case will admit; but no pleading shall be deemed invalid
for want of form, if it contain the substance required by law.

NO. 1.
Complaint on a Note.‘ .
———— CIRCUIT COURT.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant, on
the day of , by his note, a copy of which is

 

filed herewith, promised to pay the plaintifff dollars,
which remain unpaid, and the plaintifff demands judgment for

-— dollars.
A. B. (or J. J. attorney for A. B.)

NO. 2.
Indorsee against the Maker.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant on
the day of , by his note, a copy of which is
filed herewith, promised to pa E. F. dollars who
indorsed the note to the plainti , which remains unpaid, and

 

 

the plaintifff demands judgment for dollars.
NO. 3.

Indorsee against the Indorser, in case of Insolvency of the
Maker.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that E. F., on the
——-—-day of , by his note, a copy whereof is filed
herewith, promised to pay the defendant dollars, who
indorsed the note to the plaintifff, and when the note became
due, E. F. was, and still is, whollv insolvent, having no propert subject to execution, so that an action against him
won (1 have been unavailing, and the note yet remains un aid,
wherefore the plaintifff demands judgment for do lars.

N O. 4.
Against the Assignor.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that E. F., on the
day of , by his note, a copy of which is filed herewith,
promised to pay to the defendant dollars, who indorsed
the note to the plaintifff; and the plaintifff, in an action commenced on the day of , recovered judgment
against the said E. F. for —————- dollars, the sum due on.
the note, in the circuit court, at the term
thereof, being the first term after the note became due: and
on the day of , the plaintifff sued out execution
on the judgment, which was delivered to the sheriff to be
executed, whereon the sheriff returned that no property
of the said E. F. could be found, subject to execution, and the
said note and judgment remain unpaid. The plaintifff demands
judgment for dollars.

   

NO. 5.

Indorsee against maker and Binizrsers upon a note payable in
a .

A. B. complains of C. D., E. F., E. H. and E. R., and says
that C. D., on the day of , by his note, a copy
of which, and indorsements, are filed herewith, promised to
pa E. F. or order, one thousand dollars; and that E. F.
in orsed the note to E. H., who indorsed it to E. R., who
indorsed it to the plaintifff, yet 0. D. did not pay the note
when it became due, upon presentation at the place where
payable, of which the defendants had due notice. The said
note still remains unpaid, and the plaintifff demands judgment
for dollars.

 

N O. 6.
On a promissory note where there are payments.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant, on

 

the —— day of , by his note, a cop of which is filed
herewith, promised to pay A. B. do! are; that defendant, on ' dollars on said note, and on

he paid --—-—— dollars; that the residue thereof, and the
interest, are yet due, wherefore he demands judgment for
dollars.

NO. 7.
For money paid by a surety.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on the day
of , he paid to G. H. dollars, on a note held
by him on the plaintifff, as surety for the defendant, a copy
of which note is filed herewith, which amount yet remains
due and unpaid to the plaintifff, wherefore he demands judgment for dollars.

   

NO. 8.

On an agreement in wrz'ting—spect.'/ic performance, and
damages for hes.

 

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on , the
defendant executed, as did also the plaintifff, an agreement, a
copy whereof is filed herewith; that the plaintifff duly performed all the conditions on his part; that the defendant has
failed to perform the conditions on his part in this: [here
state the breaches of the agreement.] T e plaintifff asks that

the defendant be compelled to perform his agreement in this:
[here state the specific performance required ;] and the plaintifff demands damages to the amount of dollars, which
he has sustained in the premises, and other proper relief.‘

N O. 9.
To foreclose a Mortgage.

 

. A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant executed a mort age. conveying to the plaintifff the tract of
land therein escribed, as security for the payment of a debt
evidenced by a note, a copy of each of which is filed herewith, amounting to dollars, which yet remains unpaid:
Wherefore he asks judgment for dollars and the foreclosure of the mortgage, and sale of the property, or so much
thereof as may be necessary to pay his debt, and for other

e r 1' £1’
prop r e 16 NO. 10.

On an Account.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant is
indebted to him in the sum of dollars, for personal
property sold and delivered by the plaintifff to the defendant,
the particulars of which are set forth in an account filed

 

herewith, leaving due and unpaid the sum of . dollars,
for which he demands judgment.
N 0. II.
For Goods sold and delivered, Materials furnished, and Mmzey
' lent.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that the defendant owes
him dollars, for goods sold and delivered by plaintiff to
him; also, that defendant owes plaintifff dollars, for
work done and materials furnished b plaintifff for him; also,
that defendant owes plaintifff ollars, for money lent by
plaintifff to him—a bill of particulars of each is filed herewith:
wherefore plaintifff demands judgment for dollars.

N O. 12.
For Fraud in the sale of Property.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on the day
of —, the defendant sold him a horse, for which the
laintitf paid him dollars; that the defendant frauduently represented the horse to be sound, knowing the same

 

 

 

 

 

to be unsound and diseased with the fistula, by reason
whereof the horse has become wortfiless, and the plaintifff
has been put to dollars expense in keeping and tryin
to cure him: Wherefore, he prays judgment for do lars damages.‘

 

N O. 13.

To recover personal property.

A. B. says that he is the owner of, and entitled to the possession of Ehere describe the property ;] of the value of
dollars, w ich C. D. has possession of without ri ht, and
unlawtully detains from the laintiff; wherefore he emands
judgment for the recovery 0 the property, and dollars
damages for the detention, and other proper relief. 1'

N O. 14.
For injury to the Person.

 

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on —-———, the
defendant being the owner of a stage coach, the plaintifff
took passage therein at ——-——, to be conve ed to ;
that the stage was upset by the carelessness o the driver in
the service of the defendant, and the plaintifff thereby had
his arm broken, and was otherwise injured, in consequence of
which he had to expend dollars for medical attendance, and says he has sustained damage to the amount of
dollars, for which he demands judgment. 1

NO. 15.
For taking Goods.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that, on
————-———, the defendant without leave and wrongfully took
the following property of the plaintifff and has not returned the
same, that is to say [here describe the property with the val
ue,] by which plaintifff says he was damaged to the amount
of dollars, for which he demands judgment, and for
other proper relief.

 

 

—, at

 

NO. 16.
5 For Assault and Battery.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on-—————— the
defendant assaulted and beat the laintiff, whereby he is damaged to the amount of dol ars, for which he demands

jud ment.
g N O. 17.

For Slander.

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on the defendant spoke the following false and slanderous words of the
plaintifff, that is ‘to say [ ere insert the words,] by which

laxntif says he is damaged to the amount of dollars,
For which he demands judgment. " '

NO. 18.
For a Libel.

A. B. complains of C. D., and sa s that the defendant on
, published in a newspa er cal ed of the plaintifff,
the following false and ma icious libel, [here insert it, ]
whereby the plaintifff is damaged to the amount of

dollars, for which he demands judgment.

NO. 19.
To recover real property.

 

   

A. B. states that he is the owner in fee simple, (or for life,
&c.,) and entitled to possession of a tract of and, (or town
lot.) [here describe it,] that C. D. now holds possession of the
land without right, and for past has unlawfully kept
the plaintifff out of session, wherefore he demands judgment
for the recovery the land, and dollars damages for
being kept out of possession, and for other proper relief.1'

NO. 90.
For injury to land.

 

 

   

A. B. complains of C. D., and says that on at ,
defendant, without leave, wrongfully entered on [describe the
land] of which the plaintifff was then the owner; and defendant also cut timber thereon to the value of —-——--— dollars,
and carried it away, by which plaintifff was damaged to the
amount of dollars, for which he demands judgment.

NO. 21.

Demurrerf
I

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.

The defendant demurs to the complaint for the following
grounds of objection: .
First. -——-———— ———-—-——— .
Second. ———--—————-—---———-———. C. D., Defendant, or
E. F., Agent or Attorney.

NO. 22.

Answer.

A. B. against C. D., Answer.

The defendant admits that he made the note, and that it
remains unpaid as alle ed in the complaint, except the sum
of dollars, which e paid to the plaintifff on the
day of And the defendant,b way of set-off says that
when this action commenced, the plaintifff was, and still is,
indebted to him in the sum of dollars, upon a note (or
contract or account) a copy of which is filed herewith; "and
the defendant offers to set off against the amount due to the

plaintifff an amount equal thereto, and demands judgment for
dollars, the resi1ue.'|'

NO. 23.

A. B. against 0. D., Answer.

C. D., defendant, answers to the complaint, that he did not
execute the note mentioned therein ; or,

That he admits he executed the note, mentioned in the
complaint, but on the day of , he paid the same
in full; or,

Admits he executed the note, and says that he has paid the
same, except the sum of lift dollars, and before this action
was commenced he tendere to the plaintifff the sum of fifty
dollars, and now brings the same into court for the plain tiff.

N O. 24.
Accord and Satisfaction.

   

 

 

 

   

The defendant answering, says he admits the execution of

the note, ‘and that before the commencement of this action,
he delivered to the plaintifff one wagon, which he received in
full satisfaction of the note mentioned in the complaint.

NO. 25.

Former Recovery.

J

 

The defendant answering, says that at the term of
the ———-- circuit court, the plaintifff recovered judgment
against the defendant for dollars damages, and
dollars for costs; and that said judgment was rendered upon
the same cause of action mentioned in the plaintifff's complaint.

N 0. 26.

Release.

   

The defendant answering, sa the plaintifff executed to him
a release, a copy of which is ii ed herewith, whereby he discharged the defendant from the cause of action mentioned
in the complaint.

N O. 27.
Statute of Limitations to an Account.

The defendant answering, says that the cause of action
mentioned in the plaintifff ’s complaint did not accrue within
six years before the commencement of this action. "

NO. 28.
Minority.

Defendant answers to the note mentioned in the third clause
of action, and says that at the time of its execution, he was a
minor under the age of twenty-one years.

No. 29.

Trespass upon real property.

Defendant answers, and says that a part of the land mentioned in the plaintifff ’s complaint was the soil and freehold of
the defendant, the same bein described as follows: Ehere
describe it,] and denies that e entered on any part 0 said
land, except the part above described.

NO. 30.
Deceit in sale qf a Hm-se.

The defendant answers, and says he admits he sold the
horse to the plaintifff for the price stated in the complaint, but
denies that he made said representation, knowing that the
same was not true. And further denies that said horse was
unsound, as stated in the plaintiff’s complaint.

N O. 31.
Slander.

The defendant answers and says he denies that he charged
the plaintifff with the crime of perjury, as set forth in the
plaintifff's first cause of action; admits he spoke the words
mentioned in the second cause of action, but says that on

at ————— the plaintifff did feloniously steal and
carry away one rifle gun, the property of C. D., of the value
of dollars, so the defendant’s charge was true.‘

‘ NO. 32.
Assault and Battery.

Defendant answers and says the plaintifff first assaulted
him, and he only defended himself. 1'

N 0. 33.
For Recovery of Real Property.

The defendant denies that the plaintifff has any other ownership of, or title to, the premises in question than as hereinafter set forth, and admits that he is in possession of the
premises, but denies that such possession is wrongful. And

y way of counterclaim, says that the plaintifff was on the
day of the owner of said land and now has
the legal title thereto, but on that day the plaintifff by his
written contract, a copy of which is filed herewith, sold and
agreed to convey the land to’ the defendant on the terms
therein specified, and put the defendant in possession thereof
as purchaser; and the defendant performed all the conditions
on his part in said contract, and before the commencement
of this action tendered to the plaintifff, and now brings into
court ——-——- dollars, the full amount due to him as the
price of said land; wherefore he (prays judgment that the
plaintifff convey to him the land, an that his title be quieted.1

   

NO. 34.

, R A. B. ainst C. D. eply

The p aintiif admits that he made the contract, and put the
defendant in possession as stated in the answer, but afterwards, on —————- the plaintifff and defendant rescinded said
contract by a written agreement, a copy of which is filed
herewith, and the defendant then agreed to restore to the
plaintifff the possession of the lands on the —————— day of

, which the defendant has failed to do.

NO. 35.

Limitations in an action on an account.

I

The plaintifff replies and says that after the expiration of
six years, and before the commencement of this action, the
defendant executed a writing, a copy whereof is filed herewith, by which he acknowledged said debt, and agreed to

pay the same. ""
N O. 36. ,

Minority.

The plaintifff replies that the articles mentioned in his bill

of particulars were necessaries for the defendant and suitable
to his condition in life.1'

N O 37.

Summons.

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

You are commanded to summon C. D. to appear in the

circuit court, on the second day of the next term
thereof to answer the complaint of A. B., and of this summons make due return. Witness the clerk and seal of the
court this day of .

N O. 38.

Subpoena.

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of

Summon A. B. to appear in the court, on the

day of , 18-, to testify in an action wherein C. D. is

plaintifff, (or defendant) and return this summons. Witness
this day of , l8——. '

 

 

   

E. F., Clerk. [x.. 3.]

 
 

county:

E.  Clerk.

. A. B. against C. D.,

NO. 39.
A§idam't in Attachment.

A. B. against C. D., circuit court.

The plaintifff says that the claim in this action against the
defendant is for money due on a note, executed by him to the
plaintifff; that the claim is just, and that he believes he 0 ht
to recover five hundred dollars, and that the said O. D. as
left this State with intent to defraud his creditors, [or any of

the other causes of arrest.] Sworn to this day of
, I8-—, before me.’

NO. 40.
Ajidavit for Claim and Delivery qf Personal Hwperty.

circuit court.

The p aintiff states that he is the owner and lawfully entitled
to the possession of the following property, viz: [here describe
the property,] of the value of ———-——; that the same has
not been taken for any tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to any
statute, nor seized under an execution or attachment against
the property of the plaintifff, but is unlawfully detained in the

county of , from the plaintifff by the efendant. B
A. .

day of ——- l8—.1'

Sworn to by A. B. before me this
NO. 41.

Ajidavit for Bail.

A. B. against C. D., circuit court.

The plaintifff says that the defendant is indebted to him in the
sum of one hundred dollars now due on a note executed by
the defendant tothe plaintifff on the day of ,
upon which note this action is brought to recover that sum,
and he believes that the defendant is about to leave this State,
taking with him property subject to execution, (or money or
effects,) which should be ap lied to the payment of the said
debt, with intent to defrau the plaintifff.

Sworn to this day of , 18-, before me.1

N O. 42.

Undertaking for Costa.

A. B. Against C. D. circuit court.

We undertake that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant
all costs that may accrue in this action to any officer or
person‘ , , E. F.

(Date) ‘ G. H.

 

   

   

NO. ‘43.
Special Bail.‘
I, A. B., acknowledge myself special bail for the within

   

   
 

named‘ , in the action specified in the within
order of arrest. Witness my hand this . ‘day of ,
18-—. A. B.

Taken and approved by me this -—— day of , l8—.
' E. F., Sherzfk

N O. 44.
Unglertalcing qf Plaintof to obtain Attachment. 1

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.

We undertake that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute his
proceeding in attachment in this action and pay to the
defendant all damages which he may sustain if the proceedings of the plaintifff shall be wrongful and oppressive.

 

 

C. P.
Approved by . « R. S.
N O. 45.
Undertaking of the Plaintif to obtain Ddivery of Personal
Propertg/.1

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.

We undertake that the plaintifff, A. B., shall prosecute this
action with effect and without delay, and return the property
in controversy to the defendant, if a return he adjudged by
the court, and pay to him all ‘suchsums of money as he may

recover against the plaintifff in this action for any cause
whatever.

Approved by . A. B.
(Date.) a C. D.

N O. 46.

Undertaking to obtain Injunction.||

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.

We undertake that the plaintifff, A. B., shall pay to the

defendant, C. D., all damages and costs which may accrue by
reason of the injunction in this action. G. H.

This day of , 13--. I. J.

 

N O. 47.

Order ‘of Arrest.‘

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

You are commanded forthwith to arrest C. D., and hold
him to bail in the sum of dollars, claimed by A. B. in
an action brought in the circuit court by A. B. against

 

him, together with the costs of the action, and to return this"

   
 

order on the day of
taken, then forthwith.
Witness, the clerk of the circuit court, this

day of . E. F., Cleric.
O

NO. 48.
Order qf Attachments!‘

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.
The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

You are commanded to seize and take into your possession
the personal property, and attach the land of the defendant
in your county, not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the claim of the plaintifff in this action
for five hundred dollars, together with the costs of the action,
and return this order, with your proceedings thereon, when
fully executed or discharged.

Witness, the clerk of said court, this day of ,

l8—. . E. F., Cleric.

NO. 49.
Order for the delivery of Propertyq;

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.
The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

You are commanded to take the following property, viz:
[here describe it, and state its value, as in the aHidavit,] from
the defendant, C. D., and deliver it to the plaintifff, A. B.,
upon his giving the undertakin and surety required by law;
and make due return of your oings on this order forthwith.

Witness, the clerk of said court, this day of

1s_. E. F., Clerk. "

, or, if a recognizance is

   

NO. 50.
Order of Injunction.‘

A. B. against C. D.,
The State of Indiana: To C. D.:

You are enjoined from all further proceedings upon the
judgment of the circuit court, rendered at the
term thereof, in IS—, in your favor, against A. B., for the

Circuit Court.

   

   
 

sum of . dollars, and costs, until the further order of this
court. 4
By order of the court, this day of , 18-.
Witness: E. F., Cleric.
' NO. 51.
Executions. 1'

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

Whereas, A. B. recovered judgment against C. D. on the
——- day of , in the court for dollars,
[and E. F. became replevin-bail therefore on the . day of
,] upon which there is due dollars principal
and interest, and dollars costs accrued to this time.
You are thereforee commanded to levy the said sums of money
of the property of the defendant [and replevin-bail] in your
county, subject to.execution, and have the money at the
clerk’s oiiice to satisfy said jud ment, interest and costs, and
return this writ in one hundre and eighty days, with your
doings thereon.

Witness, &c.

   

   

 

NO. 52.
Delivery of Propertg/.1;

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

Whereas, on the day of , by the judgment of
circuit court, A. B. recovered against C. D. the following personal (or real) property, viz: [here describe it,]
which is unjustly withheld from the said A. B. by the said
C. D. You are thereforee commanded forthwith to deliver
to said A. B. possession of said premises with appurtenances,
(if real property,) (if personal, said property,) so recovered,
and that of the property of said C. D. in your county, you
levy damages and costs recovered in said
jud ment by A. B. against C. D. and have the money at the
cle1§(’s office to satisfy said damages and costs, and return

 

   

 

   

this writ in one hundrded and eighty days with your doings

thereon.
Witness the clerk and seal of said court this da of
E. F., Clerz.

N O. 53.‘

Schedule to be furnished by the Slzerzf, and Appraisement.

A. B. against C. D., Circuit Court.
The following is a list of property levied upon by virtue of

 

   

an execution in this case by me, on this day of * ,

18-. Q. R.,Sherz_'f.
To-wit:

Lot N o. ten (10) in the town of Indianapolis - - - - - - $500 00

The west half of the north-east quarter of section ten,
township live, north of range three east, in

county, eighty (80) acres, more or less - - - - - - - - - - 400 00
one bay horse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 00
One black cow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 00

$995 00

We, the undersi ned, selected to appraise the property mentioned in the sche ule to which this is annexed, upon oath say
that the several items, to the best of our judgment, are worth
the respective sums specified therein, and that the same is
the fair cash value at this time, [exclusive of liens and incumbranc es, if any.] 13'. $1., g Appraisers.

   

Subscribed and sworn to before me, this day of ,
l8——. Q. R., Slzerifqf county.
Notice: in Court of Conciliation.'I'

NO. 54.

To C. D.:

You are notified that I have a claim (or cause of action)
against you for slanderous words spoken of me by you, (or
any of the other causes mentioned in section 3,) and you are
required to appear before the court of conciliation in relation
thereto, on (naming the day and hour,) at (naming the place,)
for the purpose of compromising the same.

Dated. A. B.

NO. 55.‘
To A. B..You are hereby notified that C. D. has filed with me a claim
against you for slanderous words spoken of him by you, and
that I will hold a court of conciliation in relation thereto on

(naming the day and hour,) at (naming the place,) for the
purpose of compromising the same.

Dated . ,
— E. F., Judge ofthe Court of Conciliation.

 

FORMS IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS.

NO. 56.
Oath of the Grand Jury.

You and each of you swear that you will diligently inquire,
and true presentment make, of all felonies committed or
triable within this county, of which you shall have or can

' obtain legal evidence; that you will present no person through

malice, hatred or ill-Will, nor leave any unpresented through
fear, favor, or affection, or for any reward, or the promise or
hope thereof, but in all~your indictments you will present the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth; that you

-will not disclose any evidence given, or proceeding had

before the grand jury. So help you God.
“ NO. 57.

Ind ictments—M urder.

In the — Circuit Court:

‘The grand jury of the county of charge that A. B.,
on ————-, at ————-, purposely and with premeditated
malice unlawfully killed and murdered C. D., by shooting
him with a pistol, (or by administering to him poison, or by
stabbing him with a knife, or by means unknown to the grand
jury, as the case may be.)

 

A. G., Prosecuting Attorney.

NO. 58.
Rape.

The grand jury of the county of charge that A. B.,
on _ , at ——————, unlawfully had carnal knowledge
of E. F., a woman, against her will, (or of E. F. a woman
child under twelve years of age.)

 

   

N O. 59.

Arson.

The grand jury for the county of, charge that A.
B., on —————, at -—-———, willfully and maliciously set
fire to the dwelling house of I. N., and thereby occasioned
damage to him in the sum of dollars.

N O. 60.
Robbery.

The grand jury of the county of charge that A. B.,
on ————, at , forcibly and feloniously took a
old watch, (or as the case may be,) the property of C. D.,
rom his person, and against his will, by violence to his person, (or by putting him in fear.)

N O. 61.
Larceny.

The grand jury of the county of charge that A. B.,
on ————-—, at ————, did feloniously steal, take and carry away one rifle gun, (or as the case meay be,) the personal
property of C. D., of the value of ollars.

N O. 62.
Counterfeiting.

 

The grand jury of the county of charge that A. B.,
on ——————, at ——-—-, counterfeited a silver, [or gold,]

coin, of the Republic of Mexico, called a dollar, which was at
that time current in this State.

NO. 63.
Having Countezfeit Money.

 

The grand jury of the county of , charge that A. B.,
on ————, at —————, had in his possession a counterfeit
five dollar bank note, purporting to be a five dollar bank note
issued by the Indianapolis Branch of the State Bank of Indiana, with intent to have the same put in circulation, knowing the same to be counterfeit.

N O. 64.
Altering Marks.

 

The grand jury of the county of , charge that A. B,,
on ———-——, at ———-——, altered the mark of a hog, the

property of C. D., of the value of dollars, with intent
to steal the same.

 
 

N O. 65.
Seduction.

The grand jury of the county of , charge that A.
B., on , at , had illicit intercourse with C. D.,

a female of good repute for chastity, under the age of
twenty-one years, under a promise of marriage made to her.

N O. 66.

Form of an Information.

   

 

Court of Common Pleas.

P. M., prosecuting attorney for the judicial circuit
of the State of Indiana, informs the court that A. B.,_ on
, at , in a rude and angry manner, unlawfully
struck and wounded C. D.

In

 

   

P. M., Prosecuting Attorney. I

NO. 67.
Warrant. ‘

The State of Indiana: To the sheriff of county:

You are commanded to arrest C. D. forthwith, and hold
him to bail in the sum of dollars, to answer on the
first day of the next term of circuit court, [or court
of common pleas,] an indictment [or information] for larceny
[or as the case may be,] and for want of bail, commit him to
the jail of the county until legally_discharged.

 
 

 

Witness, the seal and clerk of the court, this day
of , l8——. E. F., Cleric.
NO.‘ 68.
Recognizance.
State of Indiana, county.

We, C. D. and E. F., owe the State of Indiana
dollars to be levied of our property.

The condition of the above is that the said C. D. shall
personally be before the court on the first day of the

 

 


