PART III.

 

LN ACT CONCERNING COURTS AND THEIR OFFICERS, AND ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN

CIVIL CASES.

 

WHEREAS, it is expedient that the several statutes of this state
relating to courts and their officers, and actions and proceedings in civil cases, should berevised and arranged under appropriate heads, and that omissions and other defects should

be supplied:
THEREFORE,

BE it enacted by the general assembly of the state of Indiana
as follows:

 

CHAPTER 36.

GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING COURTS OF JUSTICE, AND THE
POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUDICIAL OFFICERS. SECTION . Smnon
1. Sittings of courts shall be public. 14. Attorney's name to be endorsed on
2. Judge who is a party, &.c. to a suit, writ.
not to sit. 15. Power of courts to punish for con3. Judge of appellate court. tempts. ‘
4. Judge who was attorney, &c. not to 16. Mode of proceeding in case of con_ sit, &.c. tempt.
5- J ‘"1892 if 8 party. may appear, &c. 17. Person fined for contempt may show
6. Court not to sit on Sunday,except,&.c. such fine, &.c., if indicted.
7. Effect of impression of seal of court. 18. Drawing up and ‘signing minutes of
8. Courts of record; their powers. proceedings.
9- When Process. cause. &c. not to be 19. Place of holding courts. ,
discontinued. 20. Court may adjournincase of sickness.
10' 0mis5i°“ *0 adjourn. 21. Clerk shall publish the same.
11. New seal. 22. Effect of such adjournment.
12' Writs» &'°- I0 be wlleda &c. when 23. Failure of court to convene shall 110‘
remm“bl°- affect causes.
13. Same.

SECTION 1. The sittings of every court within this state shall

be Public» and every citizen who shall well conduct himself may
freely attend the same.

SE0'I‘- 9- N0 judge of any court shall sit as such in an)’

I cause to which he 18 a party, or in which he is interested, or in which he. would be excluded from being a juror by reason of
consanguinity or aflimty to either of the parties.

Sncr. 3. No judge of any appellate court, or of a court to ‘
which a writ of error is returnable, shall decide or take part in l
the decision of any cause or matter which shall have been de- 1
termined by him when sitting as a judge of any other court.

Sncr. 4. N o judge shall practice or act as a counsellor, at- ,

tomey, or solicitor in any of the courts of this state, nor shall
he be allowed to have a partner practising in any of said courts,
nor shall he become either directly or indirectly interested in
the costs of any uit which may be brought into the court of
which he may be a judge.

Sncr. 5. In all cases in which a judge may become a party,
or may have an interest in the subject matter of the suit,he
may appear by himself, or by attorney, as is permitted to all
other persons suing or bein sued in such court.

Snow. 6. No court shal be open or transact any business
on Sunday, unless it be for the purpose of receiving a verdict
or discharging a‘ jury, and no adjournment of the court shall be
to that day, except such adjournment shall be made after committing a cause to a jury for the purpose of receiving the verdict
or dischargin such jury.*

Snow. 7. he im ression of the seal of any court by stamp
on the paper or parcllment shall be a sudicient sealing.

Sncr. 8. The supreme court, and the circuit courts and probate courts of the several counties, are courts of record, and
shall have power respectively,

1. To issue process of subpoena requiring the attendance of
tiny witness residing or being in any part of this state, to testify
In any matter or cause pending in such court.

2. To administer oaths to witnesses in any such matter or
cause, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the
exercise of the powers and duties of such court.

3. To devise such new writs and forms of proceedings as
H_lay be necessary to carry into effect the powers and jurisdict1on possessed by such court.

‘Seer. 9. No process issued or proceeding pending in any of
said courts, shall be discontinued by reason of such court not
having been held at any stated term thereof; but such process
shall be deemed to be returnable to the term which shall be held
next after such failure, and the proceedings shall stand continued
to, and be disposed of, at such next term, in the same manner
In which they might have been at the term which failed.

Sncr. 10. No omission to adjourn any such court from day
to day, ‘previous to the final adjournment thereof, without day,
shall vitiate any proceedings in such court.

. _SEcr. 1!. Whenever the seal of any such court shall be so
Injured that it cannot be conveniently used, the court shall cause
the same to be destroyed; and whenever the seal shall be lost
or destroyed, such court shall cause a new seal to be made,

similar in all respects to‘ the former seal, which shall become
the seal of the court, and the expense thereof shall be paid by
the county in which such court shall be held, except the seal of
the supreme court, which shall be paid from the state treasury.

Sscr. 12. All writs and process shall issue out of the court to
which they are returnable, and, except the process of subpoena
for witnesses, shall be sealed with the seal of said court, and all
such writs and process shall be tested in the name of the proper
clerk of such court, and returnable on the first day of the term
next ensuing, unless otherwise directed or allowed by law.‘

Sncr. 13. All process returnable at a day fixed by law, shall
be deemed and taken to be returnable at such day, although a
different day may be named in said process.

Snow. 14. All writs and process issued out of any court of
record, shall, before the same shall be delivered to any officer to
be executed, have the name of the attorney or other person at
whose instance the same shall have been issued, endorsed thereon
by the clerk of the court.

Sncr. 15. Every court of record shall have power to punish
by fine and imprisonment, or by either, as for a criminal contempt, persons guilty of any of the following acts:

1. Disorderly, contem tuous, or insolent behavior towards
the court, or any of its 0 cers, in its presence.

2. Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance
tending to interrupt its proceedings.

3. Wilful disobedience of, or resistance willfully olfered to,
any lawful process or order of said court.

4. Any willful attempt to obstruct the proceedings or hinder
the due administration of justice in any suit, proceeding, or process pending before the court.

5. The contumacious and unlawful refusal of any person to
be sworn or affirmed as a witness; and when sworn or affirmed,
the refusal to answer any legal and pro er interrogatory.

Snow. 16. Contempts committed in t e presence of the court

‘’ may be punished summarily: in other cases the party, upon

being brought before the court, shall be notified of the accusation against him, and have a reasonable time to‘make his
defense.

Snow. 17. Persons punished for contempt under the preceding provisions shall nevertheless be liable to indictment, if
such contempt shall amount to an indictable offense; but the
court before which the conviction shall be had, may, in determining the punishment, take into consideration the punishment
before inflicted, in mitigation of the sentence.

SECT. 18. Each day’s proceedings of every such court shall
be drawn up at full length by the clerk, which, after being read
in the presence of the court, shall be signed in the probate court
by the judge thereof, and in the circuit and supreme courts by
the president or chief judge, or in his absence, by the remaining
judges.

Snow. 19. Wherever there shall be no court house provided
for any such court, or it shall be destroyed by fire or other
means, or shall from any cause be ‘unsafe, or unfit for the holdmg of such court, the judge or judges thereof may appoint
some convenient building near to the place where the court is
required by law to be held, as a temporary place for holding
such court, and the place so appointed shall be deemed the
court house of said court for the time being, and all business
which shall be transacted thereat shall be as valid as if the same
were done at the usual or legal court house.

Snow. 20. Whenever, from the prevalence of disease at 211:3’
place where any court is by law appointed to be held, it sh 1
be deemed dangerous or impracticable to hold such court at the
time required by law, it shall be lawful for such court to meet
at any time during such term, and adjourn the same to a day
not exceeding three months from the time of adjournment, if
deemed expedient to hold such court before the next regular
term thereof.

Snow. 21. The clerk of said court shall forthwithjcause to

be published in some newspaper nearest to such'court, such
order of adjournment, with the time and place of such special
._session, and post up a similar notice at the court ‘house door and
In the clerk’s office of the county in which such court is held.
_ Snow. 22. The effect and operation of any such special adjournment shall, in relation to the duties of all officers, grand
]l1l‘01'S, petit jurors, suitors, witnesses, persons recorrnized, and
0tl_1eI_‘s, and to the operation of all’ proceedings, bot civil and
criminal, therein pending, be the same as though the court had
adjourned to the court in course; and as to all such duties and
operations, the session fixed by such special adjournment shall
be regarded as a regular session.

SEc'r. 23. Whenever, from the prevalence of disease, sickness,.or unavoidable accident, or from the necessary absence of
Em)’ Judge or judges thereof, any court shall not be holden at
Its regular term, no suit or proceeding therein pending shall, for

that cause, be discontinued; but the duties of parties thereto,
their witnesses, and all others concerned, shall be the same as
though such suit or proceeding had been regularly continued.

 

CHAPTER 37.

OF THE SUPREME COURT, ITS POWERS AND DUTIES, AND THE
OFFICERS OF SUCH COURT.

ARTICLE 1. Of the supreme court, its powers and duties.
Anrrcns 2. Of the attorney on behalf of the state in the supreme court.

ARTICLE 3. Of the clerk of the supreme court.
ARTICLE 4. Of the sheriff' of the supreme court.

:——-j

ARTICLE 1.

Of the supreme court, its powers and duties.‘

SECTION Sscrron
1. Judges. 23. When incapable by insanity, or out
2. Seal. of the state.
3. Judges, conservators of the peace. 24. In case of refusal to join.
4. Court where held. 25. Rule, how served. '
5. Judges may occupy rooms on the 26. Failure to answer rule.
circle. 27. If he appear he may be joined.
6. Terms of the court. 28. Effect, etc.
7. Length of term. 29. Costs,
8. Failure of judges to attend. 30. Limitation of writ of error.
9. Jurisdiction. 31. Writ, how issued and when return10. Appeals, when and how granted. able.
11. Writ of error. 32. To whom directed.
12. Writ of error, by whom brought. 33. How executed.
13. By feme sole who afterwards marries. 34. Return.
14. By surviving parties. 35. Failure to return.
15. Against whom writ of errorlmay be 36. Order of supersedeas.
brought. 37. Bond in such case.
16. Against fame sole defendant who 38. By whom approved.
afterwards marries. 39. Where filed.
17. Case of death of joint plaintiffm appel- 40. Supersedeas.
lant, defendant, or appellee, etc. 41. Limitation of supersedeaso
18. Death of all plaintifffs or appellants 42. Expiration of supersedeas to be 09!‘
in error. titied by clerk of supreme court.
l9. Death of all the appellees or defend- 43. When second order of 8llP°1‘9°d‘”
&T1t8- shall not be made.
20. Female plaintifff or defendant after 44. Appeal bond in ejectment. elf» .
error or appeal, etc. 45. Bond in case of writ of em’ ‘"
21. Sci. fa. against the husband. ejectment, etc.

22. Who shall join in bringing a writ of 46. Summons to the defendant in error8|'Y01'- 47. Non-resident defendant.

S1-2c‘l'!ON

48. Notice to attorney, etc., in such case.

49. Trial when had.

50. Transcript may be filed, and errors
assigned thereon.

51. Summons to defendant.

52. Proceedings in such case.

53. Pleadings when to be filed.

54. What errors shall be assigned.

55. How far cause shall be reversed.

56. Judgment in case of partial reversal.

57. Court may pronounce decree or remand the cause.

58. Damages.

59. Costs.

60. Judgments in supreme court against
executors etc.

6]. After reversal of decree complainant
may dismiss his bill, etc.

62. Equal division of supreme court,

cause continued, etc.
Issues of fact.

Jury.
Witnesses.
Depositions.
. Supreme court may send an issue of
fact to a circuit court, etc.
Duty of such circuit court.
. Return of verdict in such case.
. Appeal from interlocutory order, etc.
- Appeal and appeal bond.

833“ 388.9%

the court below.

75. Probate court removing executor,
guardian, etc.
75. New trials.

77. Sci. fa., when notice must be given
to attorney.

78. What shall be a sufficient service of
n°ll¢‘-0. rule, summons, etc.

SECTION 1.

SECTION
79. Executions.

80. Return day of process.—Court may

{ix return days.

81. Power of supreme court as to write,
process, rules, etc.

82. May administer oaths, fine for contempts, and compel attendance of
witnesses, etc.

83. May establish rules as to the practice of inferior courts, etc.

84. Certain defects, variances, etc. to be
deemed supplied, etc., in the supreme court.

85. No judgment, in case tried on its
merits, etc., to be reversed.

86. Non-suit in supreme court to be certilied to court below.

87. Supreme court may issue execution
or remand cause for execution.

88. Non-resident plaintifflis and appellants
‘to give bond for costs.

89. Decisions of supreme court to be in

- writing. _

90. Process when to be returned if made
returnable at a wrong term.

91. Writ of error shall not supersede or
stay execution in criminal case, except for line and costs only.

92. Criminal cause reversed, defendant shall be released from state
prison.

Or returned to the county to be again
tried.

94. Fees of sheriff in such case.

95. If convict in such case have served

more than half his term he shall be
released.

96. Must serve his term on other judgmerits.

Minutes of supreme court.
98. Docket.

99. Parties may manage their own causes.

93

The supreme court consists of three judges, any

W? of whom shall form a quorum, and such court has appellate
l‘m3dlCtl0I_1 only, co-extensive with the limits of the state, under
such restrictions and regulations, not repu ant to the constitution of this state, as may from time to time c prescribed by law;

but the general
risdictionin ca

assembly may give the supreme court original ju,d _ pital cases, and cases in chancery, where the pre31 ent Judge of any circuit court ma

y be interested or prejudiced.

_ Snow. 2. The supreme court shall have a seal devised by the
Judges thereof, a description of which in writing shall be deposited in the office of
record.

the secretary of state, and remain a public

' Seer. 3. The judges of the supreme court, by virtue of their
' offices, are conservators of the peace throughout the state.

Snow. 4. The supreme court shall be holden in the court
room in the state house at Indianapolis; but the judges of said
court may, at any time during the term, adjourn to any other
room in Indianapolis.

SE01‘. 5. Said judges, or any of them, may occupy rooms in

the state building on the governor’s circle for oliices, and consultation rooms.
. Sncr. 6. There shall be two terms of the supreme court in
each ear; one called the May term, commencing on the fourth
Mon ay in May; the other called the November term, commencing on the fourth Monday in November.

Sister. 7. Each term shall consist of thirty days, unless the
business shall be sooner disposed of, and may be enlarged beyond
that time, if the court shall deem it expedient and necessary.

Sncr. 8. There shall be no discontinuance of any suit, process, proceeding, or matter returnable to or depending in the
supreme court, although a majority of the judges shall fail to attend on the first or any subsequent day of the term; but in such
case, any judge of said court, or sheriff, or in his absence, the
clerk attending the same, may adjourn the court from day to
day, for ten days successively; and if a ma'ority of said judges
shall not attend on the eleventh day, or i a majority shall attend at any day of the term, and shall afterwards fail to attend
for ten consecutive days, the court shall stand adjourned until
court in course.

,Sr:cr. 9. Ap eals to and writs of error issuing from the supreme court, shal extend to all judgments and decrees rendered
or pronounced by any of the inferior courts of record in this
state, except as follows:

1. No appeal shall be allowed from any inferior court to the
supreme court in any criminal cause, except as provided-in the
ninety-lirst section of this chapter.

2. No appeal or writ of error shall be allowed in respect to
judgments rendered by any inferior court, in suits which or1g1nated before justices of the peace, when the amount in controzlreplsy, exclusive of interest and costs, is under the sum of twenty

o ars.

3. In all cases when judgment shall be rendered by an inferior court of record, reversing or afiirming the decision of 8 ins‘
tice of the peace, whenever the amount in controversy, exclusive
of interest and costs, is under fifty dollars, the supreme court
shall have no jurisdiction of any such cause, if a supersedeas be
refused; and no docket fee shall be recovered in any cause embraced in this and the preceding clause of this section. _

SECT. 10. No appeal from any judgment or decree of an In
ferior court shall be allowed to the supreme court, unless it _8l_13“
have been prayed for and granted by the court whose decision
is appealed from, at the term at which such judgment or decree
was rendered or pronounced, and the appellant shall have fil

in the office of the clerk of the court in which such appeal is
prayed, a bond to the appellee, with sufiicient surety, to be approved by such court, with condition for the due prosecution of
is appeal, and the ayment of any judgment, decree, and costs,
which may be ren ered or ‘affirmed against him; such bond to
be in such penalty, and to be filed within such time, as the court
ap ealed from shall deem just and reasonable.
iacr. 11. Writs of error upon anyfinal judgment or determination -are writs of right, and shall issue of course out of the
supreme court, in vacation as well as in term, subject to the
regulations prescribed by law.

Sscr. 12. Writs of error must be brought,

1. By the party against whom the judgment or determination
complained of was rendered.

2. In case of his death, then by his executors or administrators, if the judgment or determination was for the recovery of
debt or damages only.

3. In case of the death of such arty, if the judgment'or
determination was for the recovery 0 real estate, or the possession thereof, or if the title to real estate was determined thereby,

. then by the heirs or devisees of such deceased party to whom

such estate descended, or might have descended, or was devised.
_ 4. By any person having an estate in reversion, or remainder
in any real property, which shall have been recovered, or the
ossession of which shall have been recovered in any action resting to the property, brought against any tenant for life, or for
years, to which action such person was not a party; and such
Writ may be brought within the time prescribed by law by such
gertzpln, as well during the lifetime of such tenant as after his
ea
5. By any party in whose favor any judgment or decree may
have ‘been rendered, but then only when no execution shall
have issued thereon; and after his death, by his personal representatives, heirs, or devisees. or other person interested in such
9"": or in any real estate affected by such judgment or decree,
in the same cases as if such judgment or decree had been rendered against such party. .
Sacr. 13. If a judgment be recovered by or against a female, and she afterwards marry,a writ of error may be brought

. thereon, by her and her husband jointly.

SECT. 14. If there be several plaintifffs or defendants, and
‘"157 Of them die, a writ of error may be brought by or against
the survivors.

SE01‘. 15. Writs of error must be brought against the same
E91300 Who _was a party to the judgment on which it is

r°“Sht; 01' In case of his or their death, such writ may be
brought, as follows: A

1- If such judgment was for the recovery of debt, or da‘"3888 only, then against his executors or administrators.

2. If the jud ment was for the recovery of real estate, or
the possession tiereof, or in any action by which the title to

real estate was determined, then against the heirs of such person to whom such real estate descended, or against the devisees
of such estate; or if such estate shall have been conveyed by
such deceased part , previous to the bringing of such writ of
error, then against e owners thereof claiming under such conveyance.

Snor. 16. If any party to any judgment or final determination be a female, and shall marry before writ of error is brought,
such «writ must be brought against her and her husband.

SE01‘. 17. If there be two or more plaintifffs in error, or appellants, and one or more of them die, either before or after the
assignment of errors, or if there be two or more defendants in
error, or appellants, and one or more of them die, either before
or after the assignment of errors, the writ of error, or such appeal, shall not abate thereby, but such death shall be suggested
on the record, and the appeal or writ of error shall proceed at
the suit of the surviving plaintifffs or appellants, or against the
surviving defendants or appellees, as the case may be.

Snow. 18. If all the plaintifffs in the writ of error or in such
appeal, die after the bringing thereof and before judgment rendered thereon, the executors or administrators of the last surviving plaintifff, or the heirs and devisees of the plaintifffs, in
cases where they would be entitled to bring writs of error, may
be substituted, and the cause shall proceed at their suit.

Snow. 19. If all the defendants or a sole defendant in a
writ of error, or all the appellees or a sole appellee, die after
the bringing of the writ of error, or the taking of the appeal
and before judgment thereon, the executors or administrators of
such defendant or defendants, appellee or appellees, or their
heirs or devisees, as the case may require, may be compelled b
scire facias to become parties to such writ of error or appea 5
and after due service of such writ, if they fail to appear, the
the court shall enter their appearance and proceed and give
judgment as if they had appeared.

Snow. 20. If a female appellant or plaintifff in error, or 8
female ap ellee or defendant in error, marry after takin an
appeal or hringing a writ of error, the husband on his application, may be joined with her and have his name inserted in the
proceedings.

Sscr. 21. If such husband do not apply, then, on proof bl’
afhdavit of such marriage, the opposite party may have him
made a party to such appeal or writ of error by scire facias.

Sscr. 22. If there be several persons entitled to bring 8

’ writ of error, living at the time of bringing such writ, the)’

shall all join therein, unless one or more of them be permitted
by the court to proceed separately.

Sncr. 23. U on due proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to the

’ satisfaction of t e court, that any person not joined in Such

writ is incapable by reason of insanity, or that his conselll
could not be obtained by reason of his being out of the state,
the party bringing such writ shall be allowed by the cou1'H°

prosecute the same without joining such other person, in like
manner as if he were joined.

Sncr. 24. Whenever any person who ought to be joined in
the prosecution of the writ of error, shall refuse, on proof by
affidavit or otherwise of his refusal to join in the prosecution of
such writ being made to the court, further proceedings on such
writ shall be stayed until a rule of court shall have been
served on the person thus refusing.

Snow. 25. Such rule shall be served on such person at least
ten days previous to the time of appearance therein specified,
by personal service or by leaving a copy thereof at his last
place of residence. Sister. 26. If such erson do not appear at the time specified
and apply to be joined) in such writ of error, his default shall be
entered, due proof of the service of such rule having been first
made, and he shall be thereafter precluded from bringing any
writ of error on the same judgment.

Sr-zcr. 27. If he shall appear and apply to be joined on such

writ of error, the court shall permit the proceedings to be
amended by the insertion of his name, and such writ shall proceed in like manner as if he had been joined in the first
instance.
. Sscr. 28. When the name of any person is not joined
in such writ, on the ground of insanity or that his consent
could not be obtainedrby reason of his being absent from the
state, his right shall not be impaired by his not joinin in such
writ of error; but he may bring his writ of error in ike manner separately, as if no such writ had been brought.

Snow. 29. The costs of the rule in such case shall be paid
by the party prosecuting such writ of error, or the person
against whom such rule shall have been granted, as the court in
its discretion may direct.

S_Ec'r. 30. No writ of error shall be brought after the expiration of five years from the rendition of the judgment or decree complained of, unless the plainti3' in error shall have been
at the time of rendering such judgment or decree, an infant, a
ma{'1‘|8d Woman, non compos‘mentis, imprisoned, or out of the
United States on public business; in any of which cases the
tllllelfive years shall be computed from the time such disability
8 21 cease.

Sscr. 31. Writs of error shall be issued by the clerk of the ;

day of the term thereof next after the date of such writ.

Sncr. 32. Writs of error shall be directed to the judges of 1
the. court in which the judgment or final determination on!
which such writ is brought was rendered, commanding them to
cause a transcript of the record and all things concerning the
same, to be brought before the said supreme court.

. F-_0T- 33. Such writ shall be served on the clerk of such 1
Inferior court, who shall cause a transcript of the said record

and proceedings to be made, and shall certify and annex the
same to such writ, and shall endorse on such writ, and sign a
proper return thereto, under the seal of his court.

Snow. 34. Such clerk shall return said writ to the supreme
court on or before the return day thereof, which he may do by
any safe hand, or he may transmit the same by mail, at the

expense of the party prosecuting the same. «
Sncr. 35. Any clerk failing to return such writ of error as

herein required, shall be liable to be punished by the supreme

court for contempt of its process.
SE01‘. 36. No writ of error shall stay or supersede any execution on the judgment or final determination of the inferior
court on which such writ is brought, unless the supreme court
in term, or a judge thereof in vacation, after inspecting the
errors assigned on the recor , shall make an order that such
writ shall stay or supersede execution as aforesaid; which order
shall be endorsed by the clerk of the supreme court on such

writ of error.
Sncr. 37. But no such order shall operate to stay or supersede execution upon the judgment or final determination cornplained of, unless the plaintifff in error, or some person in his
behalf, shall give bond to the defendant, With one or more sureties, in such penalty as the clerk taking such bond shall require,

with condition that the plaintifff shall prosecute his suit to effect,
and shall pay and satisfy the judgment which may be rendered

or affirmed against him, and costs.
Sncr. 38. Such bond and sureties may be approved by the
clerk of the supreme court, or the clerk of the circuit court to

which such writ of error is directed.

Saar. 39. The bond, when given and approved, shall be filed
in the oilice of the clerk of the court below, for the use of the
defendant in error, and no execution shall be issued on the judgment complained of; and if execution shall have been already
lSSlJed, the clerk of the court below shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of such writ of error, and the lilin of
such bond, and after notice of such certificate to the 0 cc!‘
holding such execution, all further proceedings thereon shall he

stayed.
Sncr.'40. An appeal when granted, the appeal bond being

filed and approved as required in this article, shall operate to
stay and supersede execution, and all other proceedings 011
the judgment or determination appealed from in the court below:
from the time of obtaining such appeal, in like manner and for
the same length of time as is provided in cases of writs of error.

SEc'r. 41. The filing and approval of the appeal bonds 0’
bond to stay or supersede execution in case of a Writ of error,
shall operate to stay and supersede execution until the final de‘
termination of such Writ of error or appeal; but at any time
after the expiration of four years from the date of issuing S110"
writ _or taking such appeal, if the same shall not '
termmed, such inferior court may proceed to executio

judgment or final determination on which such writ was brought
or appeal taken, as if the same had never been issued or taken.

Sscr. 42. The clerk of the supreme court, on the application of any party interested, shall certify under his hand and the
seal of his court, the time at which said four years shall have expired; and such certificate shall be sufiicient authority for the
inferior court to proceed to execution, as provided in the last
section; unless before that time such cause shall have been reversed by the supreme court.

Snow. 43. Neither the supreme court, nor any judge thereof,
shall make a second order to stay or supersede execution on

granted.

Snow. 44. When any appeal is taken to the su reme court
from a judgment in waste, or for the recovery of and, or the
possession thereof, the condition of the appeal bond, in addition
to the matters herein before. prescribed, shall further provide,
that the appellant shall also pay and satisfy all damages which
may be sustained by the appellee for the mesne profits of the
premises recovered, or for any waste committed thereon, as well
before as durin the pendency of such appeal.

Saar. 45. ahen a writ of error is brought, the bond required to stay or supersede execution, shall, in the cases specilied in the preceding section, contain similar provisions to those
which are required in such appeal bond.
_ Snow. 46. The clerk of the supreme court, at the time of
issuing a writ of error, shall issue a summons directed to the
sheri of the county where the defendant in error shall reside,
requiring such sheriff to summon the defendant to appear on
the first day of the next term of such court, to answer the
errors complained of. ‘

SE01‘. 47. Whenever it shall be made to appear to such

court by satisfactory proof, that the defendant is not’ a resident
of this state, the court may order that notice of -the pendency
of such writ of error shall be given in some newspaper printed
and published in this state, for three Weeks successively; after
Wh h, such cause shall proceed in all respects as if such defendant had been served with process.
_ SECT. _48. If it shall appear to the court that any defendant
in error 18 not a resident of this state, the court, in addition to
the notice in some public newspaper as aboved provided, shall
require satisfactory evidence that the attorney of record for
Such defendant in the court below, if living in this state, has
had_ notice of the pendency of such writ of error before rendering Judgment thereon.

S_ncr. 49. The defendant in error, at the term to which such ~
Writ of error shall be returnable, if such summons shall have?
been served upon him at least ten days before the time at which
it. '8 returnable: and the appellee, at the term next after the
time at which such, transcript shall be filed in the supreme

court, may demand a trial ;_
the cause to another term without the consent of the defendant

in error, or the appellce,

the court.

Snow. 50. When the plaintili‘ in error shall obtain a transcript of the record from the clerk of the inferior court, certified
by such clerk as being a full and complete transcript of the
record and proceedings in the suit named, and sealed with the
seal of said court, such plaintifff may assign upon said transcript
the errors upon which he intends to rely, and file the same in

the oiiice of the clerk of the supreme court.
Sncr. 51. Such clerk shall endorse thereon the time when

the same was filed, and in such case it shall not be necessary
to issue a writ of error to the court below; but such clerk
shall issue a summons for the defendant in like manner as if a

writ of error had been issued.
SECT. 52. The proceedings in such case, after filing the transcript aforesaid, shall be the same in all respects as if a writ 0

error had been issued, and duly returned as required by law.
Sncr. 53. No pleadings shall be required on writs of error,

except an assignment of errors, to be filed by the plamtilf or
appellant on or before the first day of the term, at which such
cause may be called for hearing, and an answer thereto by the
defendant at such time as the court shall direct.

Sacr. 54. The plaintiffi", except in cases of wills, shall assign

errors in matters of law only: in cases of wills the plaintifff may

assign errors u on matters of fact, as well as matters of law, to

be determined efore said court.

so I
court shall be reversed on account of any error which s

have accrued in the progress of the cause in the court below,
the supreme court shall not reverse the proceedings any further than to include the first error; and the cause sh I be
remanded with the opinion of the supreme court, and their instructions to the inferior court, to commence from the last
regular proceeding had thereon, and proceed to trial and judgment in like manner as if there had been no proceedings subsequent to such last regular proceeding, following such opinion

and instructions of the supreme court in the further progress

of said cause. _
Snow. 56. In case of the partial reversal of a judgment, If

no further trial at law be necessary, the supreme court shall render such judgment as the court below should have rendered.

Sacr. 57. If a decree in equity be reversed, in whole 01' in

B
- part, the supreme court may either pronounce such decree as
' d the

the inferior court should have ‘pronounced, or may reman
cause to the court below for further proceedings, consistent

with the opinion and instructions of the supreme court.

Sizer. 58. When execution shall be stayed or superseded on
the judgment or decree of any inferior court, by virtue (‘if 311)’
r ecree

of the provisions of this article, and such judgment 0

1

shall be affirmed in part or in whole, the defendant ‘in error‘
shall recover damages from the appellant or plaintifff in error,
not exceeding ten per centum on the amount for _which such
judgment or decree is affirmed, and_also the costs in_the court
below and in the supreme court, subject to the provisions of the
next section.

Saar. 59. Costs may be adjudged by the supreme court, as
follows: ,

1. If the judgment or decree be atiirmed in the whole, the
appellee or defendant in error shall recover of the appellant 0]:
p aintiff in error, such of his costs-in the supreme court as suc
court may award. _

2. If the judgment or decree be-reversed in part, and aHirmed in part, the costs in the supreme court, and in the court
below, may be apportioned among_the parties, in such manner
as the court in its discretion shall think fit. _

3. If error was committed in the progress of the cause. in the
court below, and such cause is remanded, with instructions to
such inferior court, to commence from the last regular proceeding therein, the party who committed the first error shall pay
to the opposite party such costs as the supreme court may
award.

4. In all other cases in which costs_may accrue, the court
shall adjudge the payment of the same, in such manner as may
be deemed just and equitable. _ _

SECT. 60. Judgments against executors or administrators of
a deceased party to any appeal or Writ of error in the supreme
court, for dam es or costs, shall have the like and no other
effect, and shall e proceeded on in .the'same manner as judgments in a court of original jurisdiction in any personal action
against executors or administrators, as such. . _

Sacr. 6]. Whenever the decree in chancery_of any circuit
or probate court shall be reversed, in whole or in part, by the
supreme court, and remanded to such inferior court with instructions, the complainant in the bill may, at_ any time after the
Opinion of the supreme court shall be certified to such inferior
court, dismiss his bill, without prejudice to his legal or equitable
rilghts, notwithstanding such instructions, upon the payment of
:1 costs.

Seer. 62. Whenever, on hearing an appeal or_ writ of el'1'0}'a
the supreme court shall be equally divided in opinion, the suit
shall be continued until the next term, and if then the court he
still equally divided, the judgment or decree of the inferior
court shall be afiirmed. - .

SE01‘. 63. The supreme court, in chancery causes; may d1’
rect issues, or other proceedings known to the law, to try any
question of fact, proper for the decision of a jury. _

_Sr.c'r. 64. Whenever the decision of a jury shall be requiSites such court may order a jury to be summoned and er{lPan"
nelled, in such manner, and at such time as the court shall direct 3
and the jurors thus summoned shall be subject to the same fines

and penalties for failing to attend, or for. any other misconduct,
as jurors summoned to attend in the circuit courts of this state.

Sncr. 65. Witnesses shall be summoned to testify before the
supreme court, in like manner, and shall be subject to the same
process, fines, and penalties which are prescribed by law respecting witncsses in the circuit courts of this state.

Sac-r. 66. For good cause shown, the supreme court in term,
or any judge thereof in vacation, may grant commissions to
take the depositions of witnesses; and a dedimus potestatem,
authorizing the taking of depositions, to be read on the hearing
or trial of any cause or issue, and depositions de bene esse, may
be issued by the clerk of the supreme court, in like manner and
cases as the same may be done in the circuit courts, and with
the like authority and effect, and such depositions shall be taken
with the same notice to the opposite party, and subject to the
same objections.

Snow. 67. When any question or issue of fact shall arise or
be made in the supreme court, which shall require the intervention of a jury to try the same, such supreme court, instead of
directing a trial in its presence, may cause a record to be made
up, containing the necessary pleadings, entries, and issues, and
may send the same for trial to any circuit court of this state,
the president judge of which can sit on the trial thereof, taking
care to send the same for trial into a county which shall be the
most convenient for the witnesses and parties interested in the
matter in controversy.

SECT. 68. Such circuit court shall proceed to cause such
‘question or issue of fact to be tried, in like manner in all respects, as if the same had originally arisen in such court, and
shall cause a record thereof, and of the finding of the jury, to
be made and certified to the supreme court, within twenty days
after such trial shall be finally had, together with the particulars
of the costs of such trial. .

Sncr. 69. Upon the return of such verdict, the supreme
court may proceed thereon, in like manner, in all respects, as If
the same had been rendered in such supreme court.

Sncr. 70. Appeals to the supreme court shall be allowed to
be taken from any interlocutory order or decree of any circuit
or probate court in this state, in any of the following cases:

1. On any such interlocutory order or decree of either of
said courts, whereby payment of a specific sum of money is
awarded or decreed, other than costs, or to compel the execution of any conveyance or other instrument, or to compel the
delivery or assignment of any securities, evidences of debt,
documents, chattels, or things in action.

2. In causes or proceedings in which any order or decree
shall haveebeen made for the delivery of the possession of any
real property, or the sale thereof. .

3. From any order or decree granting or dissolving an 111'
junction.

Star. 71. No such appeal shall be granted by the court from
whose decision the same is prayed, unless such appeal is taken
at the time when such order or decree is made, nor until a sumcient bond, as required in other cases of appeals, shall have
been given by the appellant.

Sncr. 72. Such appeal shall not stay the proceedings in the
court below upon such order or decree, nor the suit or proceedings in which such order or decree was made, for a longer time
than thirty days, unless the supreme court in term, -or some
judge thereof in vacation, shall make an order to the effect that
such order or decree or proceedings be stayed: such order shall
specify whether proceedings on such order or decree only shall
he stayed, or whether the proceedings on such order and decree,
and also further proceedings in the suit or cause in which such
order or decree was made shall he stayed; and in either case,
the court below, and its officers, and all others, shall be governed accordingly.

SECT. 73. The sureties in any appeal bond given, pursuant
to the provisions of the section next before the last, shall only
be liable for the costs of such appeal, if no order to stay proceedings is made, as required in the last section.

Snow. 74. The decision of the supreme court on such appeal
shall be certified to the court below, as in other cases, with directions, if necessary, to such court how to proceed; and damages may be awarded, and costs shall be taxed and apportioned,
as the supreme court in its discretion may adjudge.

Sizer. 75. Appeals from any decision of the probate court,
suspending or removing any executor, administrator, or guardian, shall not affect any such decision, until the same be reversed. .

Slscr. 76. The supreme court, in granting new trials, may
grant the same on the payment of costs, or on the costs abiding
the event of the suit as the justice and equity of the case may
require.

Sizer. 77. When there have been two returns of “nihil” on
writs of scire facias issued out of the supreme court, no judgment shall be rendered or order made thereon until the court is
satislied that the attorney of the party in the court below, who
'5 l0_be _al’fected by such judgment or order, has had notice of
the lSSu1n_g and object of such writ, if such attorney be alive
and a resident of the state.

$Ecr. 78. When any summons, rule, or notice is, by this
article or by order of the supreme court, required to be served
on any person who is a resident of this state, and he cannot be
found after diligent search, it shall be a sufficient service there03.11” a copy be left with some person of mature age at the last
residence of such person, under such circumstances as to induce
ii reasonable presumption, that such copy came to the know°d8° Of the proper person.

Sncr. 79. Executions issued from the supreme court, shall.

be the same as those which are or may be issued from other

courts of record; and shall be returnable at such common return day of such court as the court shall direct.

SE01‘. 80. The general return day of all process to the supreme court shall be the first day of the term next after issuin
the same; but such court may, from time to time, by a gener
rule of court, designate certain days during the term as —common
return days, when the same shall be found expedient and
necessary.

_ SECT. 81. The supreme court shall have power and authority,

1. To frame, direct, and cause to be used all writs and process, and to establish modes of proceeding and practice to be
used and observed by said court, which may be necessary in
the exercise of its powers and authority; and may make and
record rules and regulations respecting the same; and shall cause
the same to be published.

2. To establish general rules and regulations respecting
bonds required by this article, the amount of the penalties
thereof, and for accepting and approving sureties therein.

3. To establish rules and regulations in relation to giving
notice to officers of inferior courts of the granting of stay of
execution, or of supersedeas on writs of error.

4. To establish all necessary rules and -regulations respecting all matters and proceedings which are requisite to such
court in the exercise of its power and authority, and which are
not specially provided for by law.

Snow. 82. The supreme court shall have full power to im[pose and administer all necessary oaths and affirmations; to
punish by fine and imprisonment for contempt of its authority
and process; and to compel the attendance of witnesses by
attachment and fine.

Snow. 83. The supreme court shall have power to establish
general rules, so far as may be practicable, and revise the same
with a view to the attainment of the following improvements
in the practice of the different courts of this state:

1. The abolishing of iictitious and unnecessary process and
proceedings.

2. The simplifying and abbreviating of pleadings and proceedings.

3. The expediting the decision of causes.

4. The diminishing of costs; and

5. The remedying of abuses and imperfections which {nay
be found to exist in the rules or practice in any class of actions
co nizable in said courts.

3. bncr. 84. No judgment in any civil action shall be st3Y°d?
"" reversed, impaired, or affected for any defect of form, variance
or other imperfection contained in the record, pleading?’ Pm‘
‘° cess, entries, returns, or other proceedings therein, which b)’
0, law might be amended by the court in which such judgment
was rendered; but such defects and imperfections shall be SUP‘

plied and amended, or shall be deemed to be supplied or

amended in the supreme court.

Seer. 85. No judgment in any ciyil action slfiall be stayed
reversed, im aired, or affected, after t e verdict 0 two ve men
where it shall appear to the court that the merits of the case
have been fairly and fully' decided by such verdict, and that
such verdict and the judgment thereon might be effectually
pleaded in bar to another action for the same cause.

Sia:cr_. 86. Whenever any appellant shall fail to file his appeal within the time prescribed, or wheneyer any appellant or
plaintifff in error shall fail to prosecute his appeal or writ of
error, whereby the same is dismissed or discontinued, the clerk
of the supreme court shall make out a certificate of such failure
Which, on being presented to, and filed with the clerk of the
inferior court, shall-be a sufficient authority for execution and
all other proceeeings, as if no appeal had been granted, or Writ
of error brought.

SECT. 87. On appeals and writs of error the supreme court
may issue execution or remand the cause to the inferior court
;1:;:>(;‘i£r11¢3g1;trlIiliz11t ebXe§u3l()t[l11 may there be issued, or that other proe a ereon.

SECT. 88.y Non-resident plaintifffs in error and appellants,
shall give security for costs, when required so to do by the supreme court.

SECT. 89. The opinions and determinations of the supreme
court shall be in writing, except in cases Where the point or
points determined are of an unimportant nature, and shall be
recorded by the clerk of such court. '

SE01‘. 90. No process shall be deemed to be returnable at
any time after the term next following the date of its issue; but
if made returnable in violation of the preceding provision, it
phall be returned on the last return day of such next following

erm.
' SE01‘. 91. No appeal shall be allowed from any inferior
court to the supreme court in any criminal case, nor shall execution upon the judgment in any such case he stayed or super§eded by reason of any writ of error which shall be prosecuted
In the supreme court, except when the judgment is for a fine,
Or fine and costs only; in which case, execution may be stayed
01‘ superseded by order of the supreme court, or any judge
thereof, as in civil causes. ’

SE01‘. 9?. When any judgment of any circuit court, by virtue of which any individual shall be imprisoned in the state
$50119 shall be reversed by_ the supreme court, upon the ground

at no offense is charged in the indictment, the supreme court
shall cause the governor to be immediately informed thereof,
Whose duty it shall be to order the release of such individual
forthwith.

Sacr. _93. Upon the reversal of any such judgment, if the
reversal is not upon the ground specified in the last preceding
s°°'“°ns the supreme court shall immediately notify the governor

thereof, who shall issue his mandate to the superintendent of
the state prison; whereupon it shall be the duty of said superintendent forthwith to cause the prisoner to be returned to the
county where his trial upon which he was convicted was had,
and delivered over to the jailor of such county, for safe keeping until the case is finally disposed'of.

Snow. 94. For returning any such prisoner as above required,
such superintendent shall be allowed the same fees and compensation that the sheriff was allowed for taking him to the state

rison.

P Sncr. 95. When any case is reversed, as contemplated in
the last three sections, and the prisoner shall have servedout
more than half the period of time for which he may have been
sentenced, he shall not be remanded to the proper court for
trial, but shall be discharged on the order of the governor, as
provided in the ninety-second section.

Sncr. 96. If any such prisoner is held in custody by the
superintendent of the state prison, by virtue of any other judgment, by which such prisoner is under sentence at hard labor

in the state prison, no such order or mandate from the governor.

shall authorize or empower such superintendent to discharge
such prisoner, or return him for trial to such county, until he
shall have served out the time required by such other judgment,
or he shall have been legally discharged therefrom.

Snow. 97. The proceedings of the supreme court for every
day of the term shall be drawn up at full length by the clerk
against the next sittin of the court, and such corrections being
made therein as shall ge necessary and right, shall be signed by
the chief judge of said court.

Sncr. 98. Such clerk shall docket all causes, in the order in
which they are received or instituted, that they may be heard
in the same order, unless the court, for good cause shown,
direct a different mode of hearing them, or any of them.

Sncr. 99. In the supreme court, parties may manage their
own causes personally, or by such attorneys and solicitors as

by law and the rules of said court are permitted to manage
causes therein.

ARTICLE II.

Of the attorney on behaif of the state in the supreme court.

SW’-'10!‘ SECTION

100. Attorney for the state. 102. Attorney pro tem. for the state.

101. Prosecuting attorney of another cir- 103. Further duties of such attom8Ycurt may manage cause. l

Sncr. 100. It shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorn6Y
of the judicial circuit of which the county of Marion shall form
a part, to appear, by virtue of his office, on behalf of the state

of Indiana, as attorney for the state, and superintend, prose-.
cute, and defend all indictments, pleas, suits, matters, and pro- '
ceedings whatsoever, which may be appealed or brought into
the supreme court by writ of error or otherwise, in which the
state is areal party, or has any interest.

Sncr. 101. In any matter or suit specified in the preceding
section, the attorne who may have prosecuted or defended the
same on the part 0 the state in the court below, may, with the
consent of the supreme court, be associated with such attorney a
for the state, in the prosecution or defense of such matter or
suit, or he may, with the consent of the attorney for the state
in the supreme court, and with leave of such court, have the
sole management and control of such case; and then such attorney for the state shall be exonerated from all further attention
to the same.

Snow. 1052. In case of the absence of the attorney for the
state, the supreme court may appoint an attorney to supply his
place, who shall receive such compensation therefore as to the
court shall seem reasonable, to be drawn from the state treasury
on the allowance of the court, and shall be deducted from the
salary of such attorney for the state, which he is authorized to
receive for his services as such attorney.

Seer. 103. Such attorney for the state, whenever requested
by the governor, secretary of state, treasurer of state, or audltor of public accounts, shall prepare drafts for contracts, obligations, and other instruments which may he wanted for the
use of the state: he shall also, when required by any of said
officers, give opinions and instructions upon any legal question

which may arise in the performance of any of the duties of any
such officers.

’ ARTICLE III.

Of the clerk of the supreme court.

S“°"‘°" Sscrxon

104' B°"d- 112. Shall make record. «See.

105- 03503. 1100118. &¢- 113. Transcript to inferior court.

106' D“ti°3- 114. Allowances to sheriff.

107° 35'1" ‘mend c°urt—may appoint 115. Allowances to clerk.

d°P11lY- 116. How paid.

108. Oath of dep|1tY- 117. Clerk shall certify opinion of suIO9‘ Clerk ma)’ administer 0&th8- preme court to court below.

no‘ shall l”“° ‘md 5°“1“"’il5- 118. Rules of court relating thereto.

1”’ Sh’££‘°°P and 519 all P8P8l'8s b00k8. 119. Examination of clerk‘s oliice.

SE01‘. 104. The clerk of the supreme court, before he enters
on the duties of his oliice, shall give bond in the penalty of five
thousand dollars, with at least two sureties, to be approved by
the supreme court, with condition for the faithful discharge of

the duties of his office; which bond shall be recorded in said

court, and filed in the office of the secretary of state for safe

keeping. _

Sncr. 105. The clerk of the supreme court shall reside and
keep his office at the seat of government, and he shall procure
and keep, at the expense of the state, for the use of said court
and office, all the necessary,record books, and books for dockets,
entries, and minutes of said court. .

Sncr. 106. Said clerk shall do and perform all the duties required of him by law, as clerk of the supreme court.

Sncr. 10.7. Such clerk shall attend the court during its terms,
and may appoint any suitable person to be his deputy, by
writing under his hand, to be filed in his office.

. SECT. 108. Every person so appointed a deputy shall take
the same oath as is required of such clerk; and whenever _such
clerk is from any cause unable to attend to the duties of his office, his deputy so appointed may perform all the duties appertaining to the same, such clerk. being liable in like manner for
all the acts of such deputy as for his own. . .

Sscr. 109. Whenever any oath, affirmation, or affidavitis

*- or may be required or authorized by law, in any cause, suit,
matter, or proceeding before the supreme court, or which may
be necessary in the discharge of the duties of the oilice of such
clerk," the same may be taken before him or his deputy.

,1 Snow. 110. All writs and process from the supreme court
shall be issued by the said clerk, and the same shall be tested
and signed in his own name, and sealed by him with the seal of
said court.

[,1 _Si-zcr. 111. All books, records, documents, and papers of any
kind, required to be filed or deposited in the supreme court, or
in the office of the clerk, shall be filed by him, and the time of
such filing accurately endorsed by him thereon: he shall also
carefully keep and preserve all records, documents, pape1'_Sa
books, and manuscripts belonging or appertaining to his said
office, or to said court, or to any cause or proceeding which has

been decided, or is pending therein.

SECT. 112. Such clerk shall make a full and complete record
of all cases, upon the final determination thereof, which shall
have originated in the supreme court, or shall have been transferred from a circuit court before a final decision therein, by
virtue of any law of this state. _

0 Sncr. 113. When any other cause shall be finally determined:

‘- the clerk shall make a complete record thereof, not including
therein the transcript from the court below.

to Sncr. 114. The supreme court shall make such allowances

' to the sheriff of said court as they may deem reasonable, for

his services while in attendance in term time; also, an allowance for all fuel, stationary, and other necessary articles for the
use of said court furnished by said sheriff.
Sncr. 115. Such court shall also allow the clerk thereof such

S.
sums as shall be reasonable for record books and stationary furnished by said clerk for said court, or for the necessary use of .
his said office. '

Sncr. 116. All such allowances shall be entered on the order '
book of said court, setting forth specifically for what object each
allowance was made; a co y of which, certified by said clerk,
shall authorize the auditor oi) public accounts to audit the amount
thus allowed, and the same shall be paid by the treasurer of state
on the proper warrant out of any monies appropriated to defray
the expenses of the judiciary. Seer. 117. The clerk of the supreme court, as soon as the *
same can be done, shall certify the opinion and decision of- the
court to the inferior court from which the cause in which such
decision and opinion were given, shall have been brought on appeal or by writ of error. ’

SECT. 118. The supreme court may establish general rules
respecting the mode and time of certifying their opinions and
decisions to the proper inferior courts, not inconsistent with the
laws of this state and the speedy administration of justice.

Seer. 119. The supreme court shall annually appoint one of
the judges thereof to inspect the office of such clerk, and to report at the next term of the court the condition in which he
found the records and papers; which report shall be recorded.

ARTICLE IV.

Of the slmrjf of the supreme courl.

SECTION SECTION
1%. Sheriff ‘s appointment. 130. Fem.
191. Vacancies. or in case sheriff not in- 131. Same.
dillercnt. 132. Poundage.

122. Bond. 133. Mileage.

123. Duties. 134. Postage. .

124. Execution of writs. 135. Coroner may act as deputy, &c.
125. Sheriff ‘a liability, &c. 136. Court to allow fees in certain cases.
126. Deputies, sheriffs of counties. 137. Remedy against slierill" and deputies.
127. Same. 138. Remedy of shcrill' of supreme court
128. Return of process. against deputies.

129. Moneys transmitted by sheriffs by

mail.

Seer. 120. The supreme court shall appoint an executive
officer, who shall be the sheriff of the supreme court, and who
shall hold his office as prescribed by law.

Seer. 121. When a vacancy occurs in vacation, any two of
file judges may supply such vacancy, as the same could be done 3
in term; and when any sheriff of the supreme court shall be ‘
Interested, or may not be an indiflerent person, as to any particular cause, matter, or roceeding, the duties respecting the
same shall be performed By such suitable person as the court

shall appoint for that purpose, who shall execute such bond as
the court may require.

SECT. 122. The sherifi of the supreme court shall give bond
as such sheriff, with two or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court, with condition for the faithful discharge of
the duties of his office.

SECT. 123. Said sheriff shall, by himself or deputy, do and
perform all the duties of his said office required by law; and shall
attend said court in term, in such manner as the court shall direct, and execute all orders thereof, and discharge all the duties
in relation to said court, which the sheriffs of the several counties are required to perform in relation to the circuit courts.

Sncr. 124. He shall execute, by himself or deputy, all writs
and process issued out of the supreme court, Whether the same
are issued in term or vacation. .

Sn:c'r. 125. Such sheriff shall be subject to all the penalties,
forfeitures, amercements, liabilities, rules, rocess, and proceedings, for mal-conduct in office, and for neg ect, failure, or refusal
to discharge any of the duties of his said office, to which the
sheriffs of the respective counties are or may be subject, for
mal-conduct, or failure, neglect, or refusal to discharge similar
duties in respect to the circuit courts.

Sncr. 126. The sheriffs of the respective counties shall,
within their counties, by virtue of their said offices, be deputies
of the sheriff of the supreme court. Without giving further bond
or surety, and shall serve and execute all writs, process, rules,
and orders, directed or issued out of the supreme court, which
may be delivered to them by its sheriff, in such manner as such
writs, process, rules, and orders are required by law to be Served
and executed, and such sheriffs respectively, and their sureties,
shall be liable for any nonfeasance, misfeasance, or malfeasance
in their said office, in respect of any of the duties prescribed
by this article.

Sscr. 127. When any writ, process, rule, or order shall
come into the hands of the sheriff of the supreme court, he
may transmit the same by mail to the sheriff of any county, to
be executed as aforesaid.

.0. Sncr. 128. When any such writ, process, rule, or order

shall have come into the —hands of the sheriff of any county.
as such deputy, he may enclose the same in a letter, directed
to the sheriff of the supreme court, and deposite it in the post
office at his county seat, ten days before the return day thereof;
and by so doing he shall be exonerated from any liability fol‘
failing to return the same.

Sncr. 129. If any monies are to be returned with 511911
writ or process, he may transmit the same by mail with Said
writ; but the testimony of the postmaster, that the same W33
duly mailed, shall be necessary to exempt him from liability. _

Saar. 130. The mileage and fees for service of any Wm:
process, rule, or order, issued out of the supreme court: shall

he the same as allowed in the case of similar writs issued out
of the circuit court. i i

Sncr. 131. When any such Writ, process, rule, or order is
served by the sheriff of any county as above provided, he shall
be entitled to receive the fees for milea e, and the fee for the
service thereof shall be paid to the sherié of the supreme court.

SECT. 132. But where any money shall be collected by the
sheriff of any county on any execution issued out of the supreme court, two-thirds of the poundage thereon shall go to
such sheriff, and the remaining third to the sheriff of the supreme court.

Siccr. 133. Fees for mileage shall in no case contemplated
by the previous sections of this article, be charged or allowed,
except from the county seat of the county in which the process
is executed to the place of service.

SECT. 134. The sheriff of the supreme court shall pay the
postage incurred in the transmission of all such Writs, process,
rules, and orders to the different parts of the state, that execution or service thereof may be done as herein required, and
also the ostage incurred in returning the same, and all monies
collectedp thereon; and such sheriff shall be entitled to double
postage therefore, which shall be taxed and recovered as a.part
of the costs of the proper suit or proceeding.

. SE01‘. 135. In all cases in which the sheriff of any county
is interested or not indifferent, the coroner of such county may
act as the deputy of the sheriff of the supreme court, subject,
he and his sureties to the same liabilities as if he were the sheriff of such county.

SE91. 136. Whenever any necessary service or duty respecting any cause or matter pending in the supreme court,
shall have been done by such sheriff of the supreme court, or
any other sheriff or coroner as his deputy, and no fee is allowed or fixed by law therefore, the supreme court may tax the
fees at such sum as shall be just and reasonable, as a part of
the costs of such cause or proceeding.

SECT. 137. Whenever the sheriff of any county shall bec0_me liable for any monies or damages to any party to any
suit or proceeding in the supreme court, by reason of any miscpnduct, or failure, or refusal to perform any duty required of
him by the provisions of this article, the party injured thereby
mayhave an action for his use against such sheriff and sureties
011 his official bond; or such injured party may have his remedy
against the sheriff of the supreme court and his sureties therefore.

sci‘. 138. If in such case a recovery is had against the
sheriff _of the supreme court, he may have an action for his use
as the injured party, to recover such money or damages, and
the costs of such suit against him or him and his sureties, against
the sheriff of such county and his sureties on his official bond.

CHAPTER 38.

OF THE ORGANIZATION, POWERS, AND DUTIES OF CIRCUIT
COURTS; AND OF THE OFFICERS OF SUCH COURTS

ARTICLE 1. Of the circuit courts.

ARTICLE 2. Of the clerks of the circuit courts.
ARTICLE 3. Of sherifii-1 and eoroners.

Anrrcrna 4. Of masters in chancery.

ARTICLE 5. Of attorneys and counsellors at law.

ARTICLE I.

Sacrron ' Sacrron
1. Twelve judicial circuits. 22. Notice to president judge in such
2. Judges. case.
3. Their oath of odice. 23. By whom such special temr shall be
4. Style of court. ' holden.
5. Courts, when held. 24. Powers of such court at special term.
6. What judge or judges may hold cir- 25. Appeal, etc.
cuit court. 26. Compensation of president judge.
7. Jurisdiction. 27. How paid.
8. Chancery powers. 28. When chancery cause shall be certi9. Criminal jurisdiction. lied to another circuit.
10. Power to issue writs. 29. Clerk shall transmit papers.
11. When court may frame writ. 30. Clerk shall be responsible. —Fee 07
12. Powers as to judgments, decrees, transmission.
executions. etc- 31. Cases in which chancery suit may be
13. May award writ in criminal case to commenced in another circuitanother county. 32. Judges conservators of the peace14- S|1bp03nn8- 33. Failure to hold court not to affect
15. Commissions to take depositions. causes.
16. Seal. 34. Court adjourned if judges 51“ ‘°
17. Seals in new counties. attend.
18. Courts may punish for contempts. 35. Causes continued if no court19. May adopt rules etc.—Shall conform 36. Causes not tried to be continued. 01°to rules of supreme court. 37, Elisors.
20. President judge may hold a court in 38. Their oath, bond, etc.
WY ¢°“mY- 39. Minutes of the court. How Sig“°d'

21. In chancery, may hold a special term
in another circuit.

Sscrron 1. The state shall be divided into twelve circuits_f0T
each of which a president judge shall be appointed, Whoa dllmg
his continuance in office, shall preside therein. _

Snow. 2. The circuit court for each county shall consist 0f
such president judge and the associate judges of such count)’Sncr. 3. Before entering on the duties of their oiiicesa °‘,‘°h
of said judges shall take the oaths prescribed by the constltt"
tion and laws of this state, which shall be endorsed on the"
respective commissions; and a copy of the oaths of the We’

sident 'udge shall be filed in the office of the secretary of state; 4
and of) each -associate judge in the office of the clerk of the‘
county for which he shall have been elected.’

- Sscr. 4. Each court held .in the respective counties of :
said circuits, shall be called and styled “—————— circuit
court,” according to the name of the county in which it may
be holden.

Snow. 5. The circuit court of each county shall be holden‘
therein at such times ‘and places as shall be fixed by law.

Snow. 6. The president judge alone, in the absence of the
associate judges, or the president judge and one of the associates, in the absence of the other, are competent to hold a court;
and the two associate judges, in the absence of the president
judge, shall be competent to hold a court except in capital cases
and cases in chancery.T

Snow. 7. Such circuit courts, in their respective counties,
shall have cognizance of all suits, plaints, pleas, and matters,
real, personal, and mixed, and of all civil actions between party
and party which shall be legally brought before them.1

Sscr. 8. They shall have cognizance sitting as a court of
chancery, of all cases in equity, when the parties have not a
plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, or when any such
case is properly determinable in equity, according to the course
of proceedings in a court of chancery§

Sncr. 9. Such courts shall have cognizance of all crimes,
offenses, and misdemeanors of every name and description,
committed within their jurisdiction, which shall be legally
brought before them, and to hear and determine the same, and
pronounce sentence, and award execution according to law,
exce t in those cases cognizance of which is given exclusively
to ot er courts, or justices of the peace.‘ '

Snow. 10. They shall have power to issue and direct writs
of mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto, habeas corpus, ne exeat,
and all other writs and processes to courts of inferior jurisdiction, and to corporations and individuals, which shall be necessary to the furtherance of justice, and the regular execution of
the laws; and to issue and direct all other writs and processes
which may be necessary to carry their powers as such courts
into effect, according to the course of the common law or of
chancery, and the practice and usages of courts, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of this state.

Snow. 11. Where there shall be occasion for any writ or
process for which no form is prescribed by law, the court shall
frame a new writ in conformity with the principles of law, and
the usage and practice of the state, which writ or process shall
be tested and sealed as other writs of process. “

Snow. 12. The said courts shall have power to award and
make all such judgments, sentences, decrees, orders, and injunctions, and to issue all such executions and other writs and
processes, and to do all such other acts as may be necessary or
proper to carry into full effect all such judgments, sentences,
decrees, orders, and injunctions, in conformity with the constitution and laws of this state.

Snow. 13. When any person is indicted or otherwise legally charged with any crime, offense, or misdemeanor in one
county, and shall remove to, or dwell in, another county, said
courts in term, or any judge thereof in vacation, may order 8.
writ, warrant, or other proper process, to be issued by the
clerk of the court having jurisdiction, to any sheriff or other
proper officer of the county where the person thus indicted or
charged may be, to have him arrested and brought before such
court for trial.

Sncr. 14. Said courts, in their respective counties, shall
have power to issue subpoenas and all other process to all the
counties in the state, to summon or otherwise bring any peI'S011
or persons before them to testify as witnesses in any cause:
action, matter, or proceeding pending in such court, under such

penalties as may be prescribed by law with respect to such
process.

SECT. 15. Saidcourts shall also have power and authority,
whenever it may be necessar , to grant and empower commissions for the examination of witnesses according to the
regulations of law. Sec-r. 16. Each circuit court hereby organized_ shall have
a seal devised by the court, a description of which, signed
by the judges devising the same, shall be filed by the clerk and
recorded.

Sncr. 17. In all new counties where seals for the circuit
courts thereof have not been devised, it shall be lawful for the
clerks thereof to seal all writs, process, and matters, where the
seal of such court shall be required by law, with his own private seal, and the same shall have like force and effect as if
it had been sealed with a seal devised by said court.

SECT. 18. The said circuit courts respectively shall have
full power and authority to administer all necessary oaths and
affirmations, and punish by fine and imprisonment, or either,
all contempts of their authority and process in any cause or
matter before them, or by which the proceedings of the court
or the due course of justice is interrupted.

Sncr. 19. The said courts shall, from time to time, adopt
rules for regulating the practice and conducting business therern, not repugnant to the constitution and laws of this state: and
in every thing relating to simplifying, shortening, and expediting
the pleadings, proceedings, and decisions of causes, presenting
distinctly and fully the point in issue on trials by ‘ jury, the diminishing of costs, and the remedying of all abuses and imperfections that may be found to exist in the practice, the rules of
such circuit courts shall be in conformity with those prescribed

‘by the supreme court on the same subjects.

Sncr. 20. Any president judge of a circuit court shall be 1
competent to preside in, or hold any circuit court within any;
county of this state, the president judge of the circuit to which .
such. county belon s being absent; and said president judge so
presiding in or he ding such court, may continue the session
thereof during an entire term, or during the progress of any
trial or trials, or or any less time. *‘

Saar. 21. Whenever the president judge of any circuit 2
court, from any cause whatever, shall be disqualified from trying, j
hearing, or proceeding in any suit in chancery pending in said 1
court, such court may appoint some time in the next vacation ‘
for the trial, hearing, and determination of such suit.

Snow. 22. The said court shall cause immediate notice 1
thereof to be given to the president judge of any circuit adjoin- :
mg thereto, whose duty it shall be to attend and preside at and
he d such special term, and proceed to hear, try, and determine

such'suit at the usual place of holding courts in such county at
the time fixed by such court.

Snow. 23. Such s ecial term shall be held by such president
judcre, or by him an the associate judges of such county, or
by im and any of them who shall attend.

Snow. 24. Such court shall possess, as to such suit, all the
powers of, and shall be deemed and taken to be, the circuit
court of such county, and may adjourn from day to day, and to
such time or times as may be necessary, and shall have the attendance and services of the officers of the circuit court, and shall
do all acts and things in relation to the progress, hearing, trial,
and determination of such suit, and issue all process and coinpel obedience thereto, and make and pronounce all orders and
decrees,.proper and necessary in such cases, as if the same
were a regular term of the circuit court of such county. J

Snow. 25. Appeals may be taken from, and writs of error
brought upon, any judgment, decree, or final determination of
said court, and prosecuted in the supreme court, as in other

cases.

for each day he may be necessarily engaged therein. ,
Snow. 27. The number of days employed by such president
judge, shall be certified by the clerk of such circuit court, and
the claim shall be audited by the auditor of public accounts,
and paid by the treasurer of state on the auditor’s warrant;
and the amount thus paid shall be deducted from the salary of
plhcladpresident judge within whose circuit such special term was
e .
Snow. 28. When a chancery cause is pending in any circuit
court and the president judge is incompetent to hear and deter;, mine the same, by reason of interest, or prejudice, or otherwise,
such cause may be transferred to some convenient circuit court
of a circuit adjoining thereto, and such court to which such
cause is thus transferred, shall have the same power over such
cause and the proceedings therein, as if such cause had been
originally instituted in such court.
SEc'r. 99. When it becomes necessary to transfer a cause
as provided in the preceding section, the clerk shall make a
transcript of the minutes, orders, and proceedings, and shall
transmit the same, duly certified and sealed, with the pleadings
and papers filed in such cause, by some safe hand, to the clerk
of the court to which the same are to be transf rred, who shall
file the same and docket the cause among the c ancery causes
pending in such last mentioned court. _
iii). Sncr. 30. The clerk transmitting such transcript, pleadings:
- and papers, shall be res onsible for the safe delivery thereof.
and the fee to the person y whom the same are transmitted shall
be the same which is allowed in cases of a change of venue, to
be Pald by ’¢he_ Complainant before the transcript, pleadings, and
papers are delivered by such clerk out of his office.
iich Smor. 31. Where any president judge is incompetent 35

it af01'eS3-id, any person who may wish ‘to institute a suit In

chancery, of which such judge would otherwise be competent .
to take jurisdiction, may institute and prosecute such suit inj
some convenient circuit court of a county in some adjoiningi
circuit; and such circuit court shall take cognizance thereof,
and hear and determine the same in like manner as other
chancery causes.

Seer. 32. The respective circuit courts while in session
and the president judges thereof, within their respective circircuits, and the associate judges in their counties respectively,
shall have full power and authority, and it shall be their duty to
act as conservators of the peace, and to take all necessary recognizances and obligations for good behavior, to keep the
peace, or to answer any offense or criminal charge in the court
having jurisdiction thereof.

Snow. 33. There shall be no discontinuance of any suit, proeess, matter, or proceeding whatever, returnable to or pending
in any circuit court, although a quorum of judges shall fail to
attend at the commencement, or any other day of the term.

S1-:c'r. 34. If a quorum as aforesaid shall not attend, any
judge or sheriff in attendance, or in the absence of all of them,
the clerk of said court may adjourn the same for two days successively, and if a quorum shall not attend on the third day, or
having attended one day, shall fail to attend on a subsequent
day of the term, the court shall stand adjourned until court in
course.

Snow. 35. If a court shall not sit in any term, all suits and
matters depending in said court shall stand continued until the
next succeedin term.

Sscr. 36. f at the end of the term of any court, any suits
or matters depending therein are undetermined, the same shall
stand continued until the next succeeding term.

Sacra 37. If at any term of a court there shall be no sheriff
nor coroner to attend said court, or if the sheriff and coroner
shall both be interested, or otherwise incapacitated from serving,
such court shall have power to appoint an elisor to serve for
such term or occasion.

Sacr. 38. Such elisor, when so appointed, shall take the like
oath, and give like bond and surety as is required of sheriffs, and
shall thereupon have the same power and authority to execute
and perform all the duties of the sheriff, which shall relate to
the service for which he may be thus specially appointed, and
shall be governed by the same rules and restrictions, and be
subject to the like penalties and liabilities.

' Saar. 39. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the circuit
court to draw up each day’s proceedings at full length, and the
same shall be publicly read in open court, and corrected when
necessary; after which, they shall be signed by the president
judge, or if he is absent, by the associate judges; and no process

or execution shall issue on any judgment or decree of the court
until it has been so read and signed.

ARTICLE II.
Of the clerks qf the circuit courts.

lscrxon Sscnon
40. Bond of clerk. 55. President judge to inspect clerk’s
41. Bond shall be recorded. office.
'42. If clerk recorder, bond to be filed 56. Clerk may administer all oaths, &.c.
with secretary of state. 57. May administer oaths of office, &c.
43. Vacancies. 58. Shall register the names, due. of cer44. Oflice to be kept at the county seat; tain officers, &,c.
office hours. 59. Shall keep his office in the building
45. Duties. provided.
46. Shall attend courts. 60. To be allowed his account for books,
47. Deputies. . &.c. g
48. Oliice and record books. 61. Same as to clerk and sherifi
49. Filing papers, &.c. 62. Allowances, to specify articles. &c.
50. Shell preserve books and papers, &.c. 63. Allowances to be certitied by clerk to
51. Record books of law and chancery county auditor.
cases. 64. Account of jury fees.
52. Causes which shall be recorded. 65. Clerk shall attest papers of revolu53. When record dispensed with, papers, tionary soldiers without charge.
entries, &.c. may be produced in evi- 66. Also papers of soldiers of the last
deuce, &.c. war.
54. Time within which causes must be
recorded. ~

. Snow. 40. The clerk of the circuit court shall give bond
payable to the state of Indiana in the penal sum of ten thousand
dollars, with two or more sureties, to be approved by the associate judges of his county, or if there be not two associate
judges then in office, by the president judge of the circuit, with
condition for the faithful discharge of the duties of his said office
according to law, and that he shall seasonably enter and record
all judgments, decrees, orders, and proceedings of said court,
and also pay over all monies which may come into his hands
for the ayment or in discharge. of any judgment, deciee, or
order ofp said court, or in any other manner by virtue of his
said office, to such person or persons as by law shall have a
right to demand or receive the same, and that he will do and
per{orm#all other acts and duties which may be required of him
y aw.

Snow. 41. Said bond shall be recorded in the recorder’s
office of the proper county, within twenty days after its ex_ecution, and shall, by order of the court, be spread upon its
records, and the original shall be filed and kept in the recorder’s
office of the county.

Sncr. 42. But where the clerk is also the recorder of the
county, his bond shall be forwarded by said associate judges 01'

1 president judge to the secretary of state, by whom the same
shall be filed and carefully preserved.

‘ ..-Al.

Szcr. 43. Vacancies in the office of clerk shall be supplied
as provided in the seventeenth article of the fourth chapter of
these Revised Statutes.‘

Snow. 44. The clerk of the circuit court shall keep his oiiice
at the county seat, and shall keep the same open for the transaction of business-every day in the year, Sundays and the fourth
of July excepted, from the hour of nine o’clock of the forenoon
until three o’clock of the afternoon, during which time, and at
all other times within reasonable hours, when specially required
by persons having business to transact in said oiiice, he shall
give attendance in person or by deputy.

Sister. 45. Clerks of the circuit courts shall do and perform
all the duties as such clerks which are required of them by law.

Sister. 46. They shall attend their respective courts during
the terms thereof, in person or by deputy.

Sscr. 47. Each such clerk, by writing under his hand, may
appoint some suitable erson as his deputy, who shall take a like
oath as is required oil) the clerk; and whenever such clerk is
unable to attend to the duties of his office, or is absent, the deputy so appointed may perform all the duties ertaining to such
oiiice, such clerk being liable in all cases for t e acts of all persons who shall act as his deputies, whether thus specially appointed or not.T

Sscr. 48. Such clerk shall procure for his office, and the
use of the court, all the necessary blank books, well bound for
_the complete records of all causes, suits, plaints, and proceedlng_s-determined in said court, and for all other purposes for
which such books are required in his office.

lS.Ec.r. 49. All records, pleadings, and papers of every description required to be deposited or filed in his office, shall be
filed by such clerk, and the time of such filing accurately endorsed by him thereon, under his hand.

,S1'-’0'£- 50. All books, records, documents, and papers of any
kind required to be filed, deposited, or kept in the office of said
°1'-“If: and all records, papers, documents, and manuscripts be103810;: or zip ertaining to his office, or to said circuit court, or
other court 0 which he may be clerk, or to any cause or proceedin which has been decided or is pending therein, shall be
carefu y kept and preserved by him.

Sncr. 51. Such clerk, whenever required so to do by a rule
of court, shall provide two sets of record books, in one of which
he shall record all chancery causes, and in the other all other
causes and proceedin 3 required by law to be recorded.

Sscr. 52. He sh I make a full and complete record, in the
P1'0Per_record book, of all causes and proceedings ended and
determined in said circuit court, except that where any nolle
P1‘08equi or discontinuance is entered by any prosecuting attorney upon an presentment or indictment, or where the sole defendant, or al the defendants in any presentment or indictment
are acquitted, and the offense charged is punishable by fine or
imprisonment in the county jail; and also wherein any civil
action a non-suit is suffered, or where the cause is dismissed
without a trial, it shall not be necessary to make any record
thereof." ‘ '

SE01‘. 53. In every case in which such complete record is
dispensed with, the production of the papers and pleadings, and
of the minutes, _entries, orders, and judgment relating thereto,
on file, or entered in the order book, minute, and entry books
of such court, may be produced and shown in said court, and
shall have the same force and effect in evidence, or otherwise,
as the record thereof would have; and a transcript thereof, duly
certified and sealed, as a full and complete transcript‘ and copy
of all such papers, pleadings, minutes, entries, orders, and judgment of the court relating to said cause, shall be of the same
force and effect in evidence, or otherwise, as if the same were
the transcript of a full and complete record of such cause.

Snow. 54. The clerk of the circuit court shall cause all cases
which have been determined, and which are proper to be recorded in the books of complete records to be recorded before
the commencement of the term of the court next after the determination of every such case.

Snow. 55. It shall be the duty of the president judge, once
every year, to examine the office of each clerk in his circuit,
and report to the first circuit court of the county held thereafter, setting fourth in such report the condition of the papers
and records in such office, and pointing out any deficiencies or
neglect of duty that may appear to exist, which report shall be
spread upon the records of such court. ‘

Sac-r.;56. VVhenever any oath, afiirmation, or affidavit is
authorized or required by law, or is necessary in the progress of
any cause, suit, matter, or proceeding in the circuit court to be
taken by any party, his agent, attorney, or other person in his
behalf, or which may be necessary in the discharge of the duties
of clerk; such clerk shall in person, or by deputy, have full
power and authority to administer such oath or affirmation.

Snow. 57. Such clerk shall have full power and authority to
administer all oaths to support the constitution of the United
States and this state, and oaths of office required of all officers
by the constitution and laws of this state.

Snow. 58. The clerk of the circuit court shallprocure a
book, in which shall be registered the names of the justices of
the peace, sheriff, coroner, and constables of his county, Wh9_I1
the same were commissioned, when qualified, the date of then‘
respective official bonds, and names of the sureties thereto, and
111 case of justices of the peace, when their term of office shall
expire; and when a vacancy in any of said offices shall take

place, he shall also note the time, as near as may be, when the
same occurred ; and for such service, he shall receive from each
of said officers the sum of fifty cents, to be paid when they
shall qualify. Seer. 59. Whenever the board of county commissioners
shall have caused to be erected for the use of their count , a
suitable fire proof building, it shall be the duty of the cler of
the circuit court forthwith to deposite and keep in said building
aléipapers, books, documents, and records, appertaining to his
0 cc. ~

Saar. 60. In all cases in which the clerk shall have purchased blank books and stationary necessary for the business of
his oilice, he shall, when the same is not otherwise provided for,
present his account therefore to the board of county commissioners, who shall allow the amount, or so much thereof as shall be
Just and reasonable. '

S1-:c'r. 61. The circuit court shall allow to the clerk of said
court, such sums as shall appear reasonable, for the requisite
blank books and stationary furnished by him for the use of said
court, and to the sheriff and other persons such like reasonable
sums for fuel, and necessa articles furnished, and for eiitra services during the term of t e court..

Sizer. 62. The specific articles furnished or services performed for which such allowances are made, shall be entered in
the book containing the proceedings of said court.

S1-:c'r. 63. The clerk of the circuit court shall certify all such
allowances to the county auditor, who shall thereupon draw his
Wa}(Iirant upon the county treasurer by whom the same shall be
pan . _

Sizer. 64. It shall be the duty of the said clerk, on the first
Mondays in January and July in each year, to prepare fromjthe returns of the proper officers, a detailed statement of all
Jury fees collected during the preceding half year, and deliver
the same forthwith to the treasurer of his county, and shall also
make return of all such jury fees which may have been collected smce the first day of January, A. D., 1830, and which may
have been overlooked or not returned.

Sscr. 65. Whenever it shall be necessary to perfect the eviflencea papers, or testimonials of services, of any person claimng to have been a revolutionary soldier, it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the circuit court to attest and seal the same; and
he shall also, whenever requested, attest all proper certificates,
and fix said seal to any paper or instrument which may be neGessary to any revolutionary soldier in drawing his pension ; and
for any of the above specified services, or any other service or
duty In_ relation thereto, he shall not be allowed to charge, take,
Or receive any fee or reward.

Saar. 66. The provisions of the preceding section shall ap- .
Pl! 1}) the officers and soldiers of the last war with Great 3
Britain who are entitled to pensions.

ABTICLE III.

_ Of sherifs and coroners.

31-zcrrorz Sscrrou
67. Duties of sheriff. 77. Deputies.
'68. Clerk shall notify sheriH' of his com- '78. Appointment to be in writing.mission. Oath.
69. Bond of sheriff. ° 79. Sheriff may take bond of deputy.
70. Bond shall be recorded. 80. Posse comitatus. '
'71. Oath. 81. Coroner—his bond and oath.
72. Conservators of the peace. 82. Duties as conservator of the peace.
'73. General provisions as to duties of‘ etc.
sheriff. 83. When he shall perform duties of
74. His duty on arresting offender on sheriff, etc. ‘
View. etc- 84. May commit sheriff to jail of his
75. Fees in such case. county.
'76. Shall serve all process not otherwise
provided for.
Shertfs.

SEc'r. 67. The sheriff chosen in and for each county shall
be the sheriff of the circuit court thereof, and shall do and perform all the duties required of him by law.

Sncr. 68. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the circuit court,
on the receipt of the commission of the sheriff of the county, to
give notice thereof to the‘ erson entitled thereto.

Sncr. 69. The clerk oi? the circuit court shall take from the
sheriff thus commissioned a bond in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars. with two or more sureties to be approved by
the associate judges of the proper county, payable to the state
of Indiana, With condition for the faithful discharge of his
duties according to law, and for the safe keeping and delivering
over, according to law to the proper persons, all sums of money
which shall come into his hands by virtue of his oiiice. *

Snow. 70. Such bond, when thus approved, shall be recorded in the office of the recorder of such county and filed in the
office of the clerk by whom the same was taken; and such
clerk shall transmit a certified copy thereof, sealed with the
seal of the circuit court, to the secretary of state, to be by him
filed and preserved.

Sncr. 71. Before entering on the duties of his office, stlcll
sheriff shall take the oaths required of officers by the constitution and laws of this state before the clerk of such circuit court,
who shall endorse the same on the commission and file a copy
of such oath in the clerk’s office; and such commission thus
endorsed shall be sufiicient authority to such sheriff to undertake and perform all the duties that belong to his office. "‘

SECT. 72. Sheriffs shall be conservators of the peace in
their respective counties.

Sncr. 73. It shall be the duty of each sheriff, within the
county for which he shall have been chosen,

1. To arrest without process, all persons who, within his
view, shall offend against the laws of this state, by breaking or
disturbing the peace, or committing any offense punishable by
the criminal laws of this state, and to take the person or persons thus arrested before the nearest competent justice of the
peace of his county, and detain him in his custody until the
cause of such arrest can be investigated and determined before
such justice of the peace.

2. To prevent, quell, and suppress all affrays, breaches of
the peace, riots, routs, and insurrections which may come to
his knowledge.

3. To pursue and commit to the common jail of the county
all felons and traitors. ' 4_. To execute all writs, warrants, and process of any kind,
which, by law, shall appertain to the duties of his office, and
which shall be directed to him by legal authority.

5. To attend all courts of record at their respective terms
or sessions in his county, either in person or by deputy legally
appointed and ualified.

6. He shall ave the custody of the jail of his county and
the prisoners in the same; and

7. Shall do and perform all other acts and duties which may
be required of him by law. '

3"‘-9'13 74- When any person shall be arrested by the sheriff
and taken before any 'ustice of the. peace, according to the
provisions of the first clause of the last preceding section, such
§h°1fIfF shall have power to serve all process issued by the said
]“3’§!Ce, and to execute and perform all orders made by him,
Which are necemary for the trial of such person or persons; and
3|lC_h justice shall hear and determine said cause in like manner
as If such person or persons had been brought before him on a
Warrant duly issued by himself.

Sister. 75._ The sheriff, for all such services as required in
the last section, shall receive the same fees which are allowed
to constables in like cases. .

To 76. _ Whenever any court, judge, or judges thereof, or
any other tribunal or officer shall be authorize and duly cmP°Wel‘ed to issue any writ, warrant, or process of which execution or service is required bylaw, and no special provision is
made by law as to the officer who shall execute the same, such
writ, warrant, or process shall be executed by the sheriff of
the county within which the same is to be executed. _

SECT. 77. Every sheriff may appoint such and as many deputies as he may find necessary; and persons may be deputed by

any sheriff to do any particular acts pertaining to the duties of

such-office. _
Snow. 78. Every appointment of a deputy sheriff shall be

section shall not extend to appointments» to do particular acts

pertaining to the duties of such sheriff."
Snow. 79. Such sheriff may take bond ‘to himself, with

such sureties as he may require, of any person whom he may

appoint deputy sheriff; but every sheriff and his sureties shall
be liable and accountable in all cases for the acts of each and

Snow. 80. Every such sheriff or his deputy duly appointed
and qualified as aforesaid, shall have full power and authority to

ing, quelling, and suppressing affrays, breaches of the peace,
riots, and insurrections; in arresting offenders against the laws,

and to assist in the execution of his office.
Coroner.

Sncr. 81. Every person chosen coroner of any county
11- shall give like bond and in like manner as is required of the
sheriff of the county, and shall also take the oaths prescribed
by the constitution and laws of this state to be taken by officers,
before he shall enter upon the discharge of any of the duties of
his office.
m. Snow. 82. Every coroner, within his county, shall be a conthe servator of the eace, and shall perform like duties and possess
like powers, in eeping the peace, and in arresting offenders
against the laws of the state, and in preventing, quelling, and
suppressing affrays, breaches of the peace, riots, and insurrections which may come to his knowledge, which belong to and
are vested in sheriffs.
mu SECT. 83. The coroner shall perform the duties.of _

>398 all cases where the sheriff is interested or otherwise incaP“°"

tated from serving; and also in case of a vacancy,
resignation, or otherwise, in the office of sheriff, the 00}'°n°"
shall discharge the duties of such office until a sheriff is appointed or elected and qualified as required by law.

Seer. 84. All writsland warrants commanding and reqbuiring V
Y

the arrest of the sheriff of any county, shall be served

the 1

coroner or other person to whom the same may be le lly;
directed; and such sheriff shall be committed to the jail o the ‘

county of which he is sheriff by the coroner; and such coroner
during the continuance of the imprisonment of such sheriff,
shall have the custody of such jail and of the prisoners
therein, and shall discharge the duties of sheriff until such
sheriff is legally discharged out of such custody.

, ARTICLE IV.

Of masters in chancery.

Sscriou SECTION
. 85. Oath of master in chancery. 88. Duty of sheriff in such cases.
86. Duties. 89. Fees, &.c.

87. Shall have power to administer oath
—may subpoena witnesses.

SECT. 85. Every person appointed a master in chancery
shall take the oaths required of officers by the constitution and
laws of this state, before he shall proceed to discharge any of
the duties of his said office; and such oaths shall be entered at
full length on the order book of the court by which such master is appointed.‘

Sscr. 86. Every such master in chancery shall perform,
under the direction of the court, all the duties which, according
to the practice in chancery, appertain to the office.

_Sizcr. 87. Such master in chancery shall have power to administer all oaths ‘and affirmations which are required. by law,
and to take and certify affidavits and depositions, to issue subEfsnas for witnesses whose testimony is to be taken before

lI_n, and shall have the same power to compel the attendance of
witnesses, and to punish for contempts, as is given to justices

-of the peace.

‘SE01’. 88. Allsubpaznas and process necessary to the exercise of the duties of the office of a master in chancery, shall be
executed and returned by the sheriff, or any constable of the
county to whom the same may be directed.

Sncr. 89. Said masters in chancery, for administering oaths,
and takin affidavits and depositions, and such like services,
Shall be alfowed the same fees as other officers for similar services; and where no specific fees are specified, the court shall
make such allowance for the service performed as shall be just
and reasonable; and all such costs shall be taxed as a part of
the costs‘ in the case in which they may have accrued.

ARTICLE V.

Of attorneys and counsellors at law.

Sscrios ~ SECTION
90. Attorneys, by whom licensed. 103. Penalty for practising law without
91. Effect of license. license.
92. Certificate of moral character. 104. For forging license.
93. Roll of attorneys. 105. Parties may appear in person.

94. Attorney not enrolled shall not 106. Summary proceedings against atl tomey for failing to pay over mo_ . practice.
95. Oath. ' ' neys. ~
96. Certificate of oath. 107. Judgment of the court.
97. Power of court over attorneys. 108. How attorney may be restored.
98. Notice to attorney of charges against 109. Attorney liable for 10 per cent. dahim. mages.
99. Effect of striking name from the 110. May retain his fees.
roll. 111. Court may appoint attorneys to pro100. Power of court to punish attorney. seems an attorney for mal-conl01. Certain officers not allowed to prac- A duct, doc.
tice law. 112. Their duties.
102. Foreign attorneys. 113. Penalty for refusing.

114. Appeal and writ of error allowed.

Sncr. 90. No person shall be permitted to practise as an
attorney and counsellor at law, or to commence, conduct, or
defend any action, suit, or plaint in which he is not a party
concerned, in any court of record within this state, either by
using or subscribing his own name or the name of any other
person, Without having previously obtained a license for that
purpose, from two of the judges of the supreme court, or from
two circuit judges.

SE01‘. 91. Such license shall constitute the person receiving
the same an attorney and counsellor at law, and shall authorize
him to appear in all superior and inferior courts of record and
not of record, if the license be given by such judges of the supreme court, and in all the circuit and inferior courts of record
and not of record, if the license be given by such circuit
judges, and to practise as such attorney and counsellor at law,
according to the laws and customs governing such courts, for
and during his good behavior in the said practice, and to
mand and receive therefore such fees and compensation as may

be just and reasonable. _
Sncr. 92. No person shall be entitled to receive a license as

' aforesaid, until he has obtained a certificate from the circuit

court of some county of his good moral character.

Sncr. 93. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the supreme
and circuit courts, respectively, to make and keep a roll or record on good paper, stating at the commencement thereoffhat
the persons whose names are thereon Written, have respective Y
been regularly licensed and admitted to practise as attorneis
and counsellors at law within this state, and that they h_a"°
duly taken the oath to support the constitution of the United

States and of this state, and that they will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of an ‘attorney and counsellor at law.

St-zcr. 94. No person whose name is not subscribed to or
written on the said roll, with the day and year when the same
was subscribed thereto or written thereon, shall he suffered or
admitted to ractise as an attorney or counsellor at law, under
the penalty ereinafter mentioned.

Sister. 95. No person’s name shall be entered upon such roll,
nor shall be do any act appertaining to the oiiice of an attorney or counsellor at law, ‘until he has taken the oaths specified

in the precedin ninetye-third section.

Sncr. 96. he person administering such oaths shall certify
thesame on the back of the license, which certificate shall be a
suliicient voucher to the clerk of the court to enter on such roll
the name of the person of whom such certificate is made.

Sncr. 97. The supreme and circuit courts, in open court,
shall have power "to strike the name of any attorney or counsellor at law from the rolls for mal-conduct in his office.

Sncr. 98. But every attorney, before his name is struck off
the roll, shall receive a written notice from the clerk of the
court, stating distinctly the grounds of complaint, or the charges
exhibited against him; and he shall, after such notice, be heard
in his defense, and be allowed reasonable time to collect and
prepare testimony.

Sncr. 99. Every attorney whose name shall at any time be
struck off the rolls by order of the court, shall be considered as
though his name had never been written thereon, until such
time as the said judges, in open court, shall authorize him again
to subscribe the same.

Sncr. 100. The judges of the supreme court, and the judges
of the several circuit courts, shall have power to punish in a
summary way, according to, the rules of law and the usages
Of courts, any and every attorney and counsellor at law,
who shall be guilty of any contempt in the execution of his
l°m°°8 and every attorney and counsellor at law receiving
money for the use of his client, and refusing to pay the same
over when demanded, may he proceeded against in a summary
Way, by motion.

Sscr. 101. N 0 person shall be permitted to rosecute as an
attorney or counsellor at law, by instituting, de ending, or conducting any action, plaint, suit, or plea, in any court whatever,
who holds a commission as a judge of the supreme or circuit
courts, and no person who holds a commission of sheriff or
coroner, or who acts as a deputy sheriff, jailor, or constable
W111. be permitted to practise as an attorney or counsellor at
law In the county in which he has been commissioned or apP°1nted, nor shall any clerk of the supreme or circuit courts be

permitted to practise as an attorney or counsellor at law in the
courtof which he is clerk.

Sncr. 102. Any person producing a license or other satisfactory voucher, showing that he has been regularly admitted
an attorney at law, in any court of record within the United
States, and that he is of good moral character, may be admitted
to an examination for the degree of an attorney and counsellor
at law; and the courts of this state may permit an attorney and
counsellor at law of another state, who is not a resident of this
state, to appear at any term of such court and practise therein
as an attorney and counsellor at law during such term, upon his
taking an oath for the faithful discharge of his duties.

S1-:c'r. 103. If any person, not licensed as aforesaid, shall receive any money or other species of roperty as a fee or compensation for services rendered or to e rendered by him, as an
attorney or counsellor at law, all monies so received may be
recovered back, with costs of suit, by an action or actions, for
money had and received; and such property, with costs of suit,
may be recovered in an action of replevin, or the value thereof
may . be recovered, with costs of suit, by the person delivering
or conveying the same, by an action of trover; and the person
receiving such money or property shall forfeit threefold the
amount or value thereof, to be recovered with costs of suit, before any justice of the peace, if within his jurisdiction; or if
not, then before any court of record by action of debt qui tam,
the one half to the use of the person who may sue for-the same,
and the other half for the use of common schools in the county
in which such suit shall be brought.

Sncr. 104. If any person or persons shall sign, or cause to
be signed, the name of any circuit judge, or either of the supreme judges, to any certificate or license provided for by this
article, with intent to deceive any person or persons, such person or persons so offending shall be deemed guilty of forgery,
and may be prosecuted and punished accordingly.

Seer. 105. Plaintiffs shall have the privilege of prosecuting,
and defendants the privilege of defending in their proper persons; and nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
debar them therefrom.

Sncr. 106. In all cases where any attorney and counsellor

: at law shall have heretofore collected, or shall hereafter "collect,

for his employer, any money, or received any property, securities, or things in action, and shall neglect or refuse to pay 01'
deliver the same over, on being requested so to do by any person
authorized to receive the same, such employer, his agent, or attorney, may file in the office of the clerk ‘of the circuit court
where such collection was made, or where such property: 590"’
rity, or thing in action was taken or received, or refused to be
paid over or delivered, charges against such attorney and court‘?
seller at law, setting forth therein the amount of money C911
lected, or the descri tion of such property, security, 0!‘ thing "1
action: and from wiom the same was collected, taken, 01' "91,

ceived, and shall forthwith notify such attorney and counse1l0l3

l

at law thereof, at least ten days before the sitting of the court .
before whom such charges are to be tried.* '
Sscr. 107. If such court, on hearing the allegations and ;
proofs submitted to them by the parties, shall be of opinion that ‘
such party has collected money, as such attorney and counsellor at law, and after reasonable request has refused to pay the
same over to the person authorized to receive the same, or has
received or taken such property, security, or thing in action,
and refuses to deliver or account therefore, such court shall susend such attorney and counsellor at law from the practice of
aw in any of the courts of this state, for any length of time in
the discretion of the court, and may render judgment against
such attorney for the amount of money by him thus collected,
or may make such order as may be just respecting such property, security, or thing in action, and may commit such attorney to prison until such order is complied with. _

.S1a:c-r. 108. Any succeeding circuit court holden in and for
the county where such judgment of suspension shall have been
entered, may revoke the same, and reinstate such attorney and
counsellor at law in all the privileges taken from him by such
suspension. '

Saar. 109. Any attorney and counsellor at law having collected money as aforesaid, and having refused to pay the same
over to any person authorized to receive the same, within a
reasonable time after request, shall pay to the person injured
ten per centum in addition to the sum so collected and withheld
as aforesaid.

Szcr. 110. Such attorney and counsellor at law shall be permitted to retain in his possession a reasonable fee for his services
as such, together with all costs and charges by him expended for
and on behalf of his employer.

Sacr. 111. Whenever a complaint shall be filed before any
c_0urt, or Whenever any court shall have sufficient reason to belleve that any attornev of such court has been guilty of any
conduct for which his name should be stricken from the roll of
attorneys, such court shall name an attorney or attorneys of
the court to investigate the matter.

S1-:c'r. 112. It shall be the duty of such attorney or attorneys
forthwith to inquire into such matter; and they shall prepare
and file charges specifying the cause of complaint, if any be found
to exist; and such charges shall be heard and determined as
above provided.

SI-:c'r. 113. Any attorney or attorneys thus named by the
court, who shall fail or refuse to comply with the provisions of
the last two sections, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt, and

shall be punished therefore as in cases of other contempts.

Sacr. 114. In all proceedings against an attorney and counsellor at law, wherein a judgment of any kind for a contempt
or official mal-conduct shall be rendered against him, he may
prosecute an appeal or writ of error to the supreme court of
the state, subject to the same. re ulations. and restrictions as are

provided in regard to actions at law.

‘CHAPTER 39.
OF PROBATE. COURTS.
SECTION SECTION
1. Judge. 25. What writs must be ordered by the
2. Term of office. Oath. court ;‘ return of subpoenas.
3. Style of court. 26. Citations, when returnable.
4. Seal. 27. Other process, when returnable.
5. Exclusive jurisdiction. 28. Power of court as to issuing and en6. Concurrent jurisdiction. ' forcing return of process; whoshall
7. Where subject mn,t;ter is in two, or execute process.
more counties, what probate court 29. Process to be served twenty days he. shall have cognizance, &c.. (0.16 court.
3.» A5 to cases of concurrent jurisdiction, 30. Power of the court to enforce its judgvvhat court shall have cognizance. ments, decrees, orders, rules. 5639. If judge interested, circuit court to 31. Effect of judgments and decrees I18
have cognizance. _ liens.
10. When cause shall be transferred to 32. Stay of execution.
circuit court. 33. Appeal on writ of error.
11- P0W€r6. how exercised by probate 34. Proceedings, &c. inthesuperio.x09|1Ftcourt. 35. Appeal; writ of error; supe1’SedB83],2. Process, how executed. 36. When appeal to circuit court shallbe
13- Chancery powers. _ certified to supreme court.
14. Change of venue. 37. Positive duty of probate court 10 CH9
15. Issues of fact. executors, doc. to account, &.c.
16. Venire. 38. Shall examine bonds, &.c.
17- J111'Y- i 39. May remove guardian.
18. Jurors compelled to attend. 40. Terms of court when held.
19- J“1'°’3 ailing *0 appear, court to di- 41. When held, if circuit court or count)’
rect how to call others. board meet at the same time.
20. Trial by jury, how governed. 42. Clerk and sheriff.
21- Judgment. &c. on verdict; new trial. , 43. Duty of clerk.
22- Wim°3388- 44. Shall keep a docket; complete record23. Process, how tested and sealed. 45. Sheriff; duties, &.c.

24. What writs to issue of course.

_Snc:rzoN 1. There shall be organized in each county Within

this state, to. probate court, consisting of one. judgeice. SF-0'13 9- Each probate judge shall hold his ofIice_f01‘ SW3"
Years‘: and until his successor is chosen and qualitied,1f he shall

so long behave well, shall be commissioned by the g0V°,r°”

‘and before entering upon the discharge of any of the duties of

his office, shall take the oaths to support the constitution of the
United- States and of this state, and the oath of oHice.*

SECT. 3. Each probate court shall be a court of record, and
shall be called and styled “ The Probate Court of County,”
according to the name of the proper county within and for which
such court may be organized. 7

Snow. 4. Each probate court shall have a seal, to be devised
by the judge, who shall cause a description thereof to be recorded among the records of the court.

Snow. 5. Each probate court within and for the county for
which it is organized, shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction in all matters relating to the probate of last wills and testaments, granting of letters testamentary, of administration, and
of guardianship; of all matters relating to the settlement and
distribution of decedents’ estates, and the ersonal estates of
minors; the examination and allowance 0 the accounts of
executors and administrators, and of the guardians of minors,
except where, in special cases, concurrent jurisdiction is given
by law to some other court.

Sac-r. 6. In the following cases the circuit and probate
courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction:

1. In all suits at law or in equity, upon all demands or
causes of action in favor of or against heirs, devisees, legatees,

executors, administrators, or guardians, and their sureties and
represenatives.

2. In the partition of real estate.

3. In the assignment of dower.

4. The appointment of a commissioner to execute a deed on
any title bond given by a deceased obligor.

5. To authorize guardians to sell and convey any real estate
of their wards, in order to reduce the same to assets for the
payment of the debts and liabilities of the ward, or debts and
liabilities justly chargeable on their estates, and to provide for
the wants, education, support, or interests of minors, and the
care and support of idiots and lunatics; and,

6_- The appointment of guardians of the persons and estates

of insane persons and idiots.
_ Sac-r. 7. When the subject matter of any suit or proceeding of which the probate court may have jurisdiction, shall be
situated in two or more counties, the probate court which shall
lirst take cognizance thereof, by the commencement of proceedlugs, shall retain the same throughout exclusively.

‘Sister. 8. In all suits and proceedings of which the circuit,
and probate courts shall have concurrent jurisdiction, the court i
which shall first take cognizance thereof shall retain such cogni- 
zance exclusively while the same may be pending in such court.
, If in any case cognizable in the probate court, the 1
Judge thereof may be or shall have been interested, either as]

 

administrator, guardian, heir devisee, legatee,

counsel, executor,
or otherwise, such case, and all matters relating thereto, shall

be instituted, transacted, prosecuted, heard, and determined in
he circuit court of the sa e county ; and such court

shall have_full and complete jurisdiction thereof, and shall be

the preceding section.
SECT. 11. Such probate courts, in exercising the powers

and jurisdiction granted to them by law, shall be governed by
the same laws and restrictions that appertain to circuit courts,

' far as the same may be applicable,
and shall have power to grant and issue all wr '

tions, or other process, to bring any party or pets J
or to carry the orders, judgments, and decrees of such probate

court into effect.
Sacr. 12. All process issued out of the probate court, and

all orders and decrees made or pronounced by such court, sha

be executed, returned, and enforced, in the same manner, and
under like penalties, as the rocess, orders, and decrees of the
circuit court are by law to eexecuted, returned, or enforced,

»unless otherwise directed by law.
Sncr. 13. Probate courts shall have all the powers of courts

‘of chancery in coercing answers, making up issu

=contempts, and taking bills, petitions, answers in
a cross bill, or other pleadings as confessed according to the

'laws of this state, and the usages and practice of such chancery

courts.
Sacr. 14. They shall have power to grant changes of venue,

upon the conditions and restrictions, and according to the usages
and customs of other courts of record in this state, and shall

exercise all the powers of courts of law an
the provisions of this section into complete effect. _
lct. Sscr. 15. Whenever in any suit or proceeding pending In a

probate court in which the parties shall make an issue

fact, or in which according to the usages and practice 0
chancery, it may be proper that an issue or issues of fact, 01‘ 9comprehensive note and entry thereof be made,
court shall be authorized to order such issue or entry
made to be docketed for trial at the term of the court ncx

the docketing thereof, unless the parties can sooner b

the trial thereof.
Saar. 16. Whenever any issue is pending proper to be

‘by 3 lllfyg a venire for a jury shall issue by order

or may be issued by the clerk at the request of either party,
having the right to have the same tried by a jury.

Sscr. 17. The court in its discretion may order a jury to be
selected by the clerk and sheriff by lot from the panel of petit
jurors selected for the preceding term of the circuit court last

‘holden in such county; but if no such order is made, the sheriff

shall select such discreet and disinterested persons as he may
deem proper, who are freeholders or householders of such
count . ‘ ,

Snell‘. 18. Jurors duly summoned.in such probate court shall
be compelled to attend in like manner and under like penalties
as in the circuit courts.

SECT. 19. If any or all of the jurors summoned to attend,
fail to appear, or having appeared, are rejected or set aside, in
whole or in part, for any cause, ‘other jurors may be summoned
forthwith, in such manner as the court shall direct; and in all
cases the parties may challenge jurors peremptorily, or for cause,
as in the circuit court.

Sir.c'r. 20. Trials by jury in the probate court shall be governed in all cases as similar trials in the circuit courts; and
writs of inquiry may in like manner be awarded and executed;
the verdicts of juries be set aside, and new trials granted, and
a venire de novo awarded.

Seer. 2]. Judgment and decree may be rendered upon the
verdict of such jury, judgment arrested, and such other and
proper order or proceeding had thereon, as in other courts of

‘ record.

Snow. 22. Witnesses necessary for any party may be sumlponed, and their attendance enforced, in like manner, and under
like penalties as in the circuit courts; and depositions may be
taken for the same reasons, and in like manner, and admitted as
evidence under the same rules as in such circuit courts.

Snow. 23. All rocess issuing out of the probate court shall
be_ tested by the c erk, and, with the exception of subpoenas for
witnesses, shall be sealed with the seal thereof.

Snow. 24. Writs of summons, of citation, of scire facias, of
Sltbpmna, and of execution, may issue as a matter of course,
111101} the filing of a declaration, a precipe, bill, or other requisite
preliminary proceeding, as the case may be.

Snow. 25. Writs of attachment and of distringas shall issue ‘
Qnlyiwhen ordered by the court, and shall be returnable at such :
time as the court shall direct; and subpoenas for witnesses shall j
be returned at any time after service thereof, or when ordered J
to be returned by the party at whose instance the same may 1
have been issued.

SECT. 26. Citations, unless otherwise required by law, shall ,
be returned at such day of any term of the court as such court 1
shall direct.

.S-'3C_T- 27. All other rocess, for the return of which no spe- ]
cilic time is required by aw, shall 'be returnable on the first day 1
Of the term next ensuing the time of issuing the same.

Sac-r. 28. The jurisdiction of each probate court, in regard
to the issuing and enforcing the due return of process, shall be
co-extensive with the limits of the state; and the sheriff or other
proper officer of any county into whose hands any such process
shall come, shall receive, execute, and return the same in like
manner as he is required in cases of process issued out of any
circuit court.

SECT. 29. Unless otherwise specially provided for by law, if
a summons, citation, or any original or mesne process whatever
returnable to the first day of the term, is executed twenty days
before the return day thereof, and the party required to appear
shall fail so to do, he shall be liable to judgment or decree by
reason of his default, or to an attachment for contempt, as the
case may require, and where no rules or regulations of law require a different course, such court shall proceed therein in like
manner as is prescribed or required in similar cases in the circuit court.

Sncr. 30. The several robate courts shall have the same

' power and authority, under ike restrictions and rules of law, to

_ enforce and execute their orders, rules, judgments, and decrees
that belong to circuit courts, by attachment and fine, tieri facias,
venditioni exponas, or capias ad satisfaciendum; and all such
writs shall be issued and executed, and returnable according to
the laws of this state authorizing the issuing, execution, and return of such writs in the circuit courts. ‘

Sscr. 31. All judgments and decrees of the probate courts,
and executions issued thereon, shall have the same force and
effect as ‘liens upon the estate and property of the parties against
whom the same may be rendered, as similar judgments and decrees in the circuit courts, and under the same rules and provisions of law.

Sacr. 32. The provisions of law relating to the stay of execution on entering recognizance of replevin bail, shall be applicable to all judgments and decrees of the probate court for the
payment of a specific sum of money or costs, with like force and
effect as to the principal and the bail, and the issuing and execution of process thereon, and the rights and remedies of such bail.

,,, Seer. 33. Any person aggrieved by any order, sentence,
judgment, decree, or denial of any probate court, may at 1113
election, for the purpose of correcting any error therein, take
the same to the supreme court of this state, or to the circuit
court of the county within and for which such probate court
was held, in like manner, and subject to the same laws, rules:
and regulations by and under which judgments and decrees of
the circuit court may be taken to the supreme court by appeal
or writ of error.

. Sncr. 34. The supreme or circuit court to which such appeal

“‘ may be taken, or in which such Writ of error may be prosecuted,

' shall have the same jurisdiction thereof, and shall entertains hear’
and determine the same in allrespects as in cases of appeal and

writs of error in the supreme court to correct the errors of circuit courts.

Sacr. 35. Such writs of error and appeals shall be granted
and conducted, and execution on the judgment or decree of the
probate court shall be stayed or superseded on the same terms
and conditions as in other cases in the supreme court.

Snow. 36. But when any such appeal or writ of error shall
be taken to or brought in the circuit court, and the president
judge of such court shall be disqualified from hearing and determining the same for any reason which would disqualify him from
hearing and determining the same if he were the probate judge,
as specified in the ninth section. of this chapter, the clerk of
such circuit court shall certify the transcript of such cause to
the supreme court, and such supreme courtshall determine the
same as if such appeal had in the first instance been taken to,
or such writ of error had been originally brought in such supreme court. ‘

Sizer. 37. It shall be the positive duty of probate courts, ex
Ofiicio, to compel by citation and attachment, all executors, adniinistrators, and guardians, to appear at proper times, and file
inventories of estates entrusted to their administration, and on
the settleinent of estates, to make and file an account current,
exhibiting fully and completely all receipts and expenditures,
and the exact amount in their hands, and the deductions proper
to be’ made therefrom for their charges and expenses as such
executors, administrators, and guardians, and to compel a final
settlement of the estates and matters entrusted to them, without
any unnecessary delay.

Saar. 38. It shall be the duty of said courts to examine the
bonds of all guardians, at least once in every two years; and if
upon such examination, any such courts shall have doubts of the
solvency or sufficiency of the sureties in any such bond, the
court shall cite such guardian to show cause why he shall not
execute a new bond, with surety or suretiesto the satisfaction
of the court.

Saar. 39. If upon the hearing of such matter, the court shall
require a new bond with sufficient sureties, and such guardian
Shall fail to comply with the order of the court, he shall be removed from his said trust, and his letters revoked and rescinded,
and another guardian appointed in his place.

SEcr_. 40. The probate court of each county shall hold four
igrms In each year, to commence on the second Mondays of

ebmaryo May, August, and November, and shall sit six days
at each term, if the business shall require it.

mar. _41. If, however, the board of county commissioners,
01' the circuit court for the county, shall happen at the time
lgerein prescribed for the sitting of the probate court, such pro_ ate court shall commence its term on the Monday next follow“ig such session of the board of county commissioners, or term
0 such circuit court.

Sncr. 42. '[‘he clerk of the circuit court and sheriff of the
‘county, or other officer acting as such, shall be the clerk_and
executive officer of the probate court.

Snow. 43. It shall be the duty of the clerk to keep a fair record of all rules, orders, judgments, decrees, and other proceedings of the probate court, separate from the records, of the
circuit court, in books which he shall provide at the expense of
the county.

S1-:c'r. 44. Such clerk shall keep a docket of all suits, motions, or other matters and proceedings pending in said court,
and of all letters testamentary, and of administration, and the
proceedings thereon, until the same same shall be finally settled;
and shall provide as aforesaid and keep complete record books,
in which he shall, as soon as the same can be reasonably done,
make a complete record of such suit/s, motions, matters, and proceedings, as they are finally ended and determined.

Snow. 45. It shall be the duty of such sheriff, or officer executing the duties of sheriff, to attend such court during the
sessions thereof, and to serve and deliver all rules and orders,
and execute all process emanating from any probate court in
this state, and directed to him.

 
 

CHAPTER 40.

OF ACTIONS AT LAW, AND THE PROCEEDINGS THEREIN.

ARTICLE 1. Of the commencement of actions for the recovery of debt, or dam88°9
only; the service of process therein; of special bail; and of surety for
costs in actions, suits, and proceedings.

An'r1cr.1~: 2. Of the surrender of the principal by his bail, and the action on the MOS‘
nizance of special bail.

ARTICLE 3. Of the commencing and maintaining of suits by or against infimts. find
by and against poor persons. _

ARTICLE 4. Of the abatement of suits by death, marriage, or otherwise, and of their
revival; and also of the effect of certain pleas in abatement; and 0‘
amending writs and proceedings, by striking out the names of P811199Axrrrcns 5. Of the limitation of personal actions.

Arrrrcmz 6. General provisions concerning personal actions.

ARTICLE 7. Of the action of replevin.

ARTICLE 8. Of docketing causes; of filing the declaration; of the pleadings and m&k'
ing up the issues.

Anrrcm 9. Of the amendment of the pleadings and proceedings before and am!‘
judgment; and of continuances on account of amendments Of W’
pleadings.

Anrtcns 10. Of witnesses’ depositions and evidence.

A.R'1‘ICLE 11. Of the trial and its incidents. ,

Anrrcm-: 12. Of judgment and costs, and putting in bail for the stay of executwni

. and of the judgment docket.
Armenia 13. Of executions, and the duties and liabilities of officers thereon
Anrxcns 14. Miscellaneous provisions..

ARTICLE I.

Of the commencement of actions for the recovery of debt, or damages only; the service of process therein: of special bail;
and of surety for costs in actions, suits, and proceeding .

Sscrrox Sncrron
1. Summons or capias, etc. 21. Defendant held on capias, may con2. Process against a corporation. trovert commitment on habeas
3. Forms of writs. A corpus.
4. Declaration or precipe to be filed 22. Discharge on such habeas corpus
before the writ shall issue. shall discharge the bail.
5. Special bail. 23. How summons shall be served.
6. Special bail not required without 24. Alias summons or capias.
affidavit. 25, Writs, how issued and when retum7. Effect of the undertaking of special ablebail. 26. Ofiicer receiving writ shall endorse
8. By whom bail ordered, date of reception and execution.
9. Order of bail endorsed on writ. 27. Process to another county.
10. No capias delivered without order of 28. Same, when defendant removes, etc.
bail. 29. Capias to another county, how exe1l. Provisions as to affidavits to hold to cuted.
bail. 30. Sheriff, etc., to take duplicate receipts
12. Foreign affidavit. of ‘keeper of jail in such cases.
13. Capias, how executed. 31. Plaintiff may suggest “ not found,"
14. Return. as to part of the defendants, etc. "
15. Defendant when held in custody. 32. When officer shall not return “not
15- If Plaintiff fail to declare, etc., de- found “
fendant discharged. 33. Non-resident plaintiffiis to give bond
17. Notice by plaintifff, if bail insumcient. for costs. 2
18. Hearing as to the insufficiency of 34. Who may sue on such bond.
bail. 35. Amount recoverable on such bond.
19. Liability of sheriff 36. Witnesses, etc., may sue thereon.
W. When further time allowed to give‘

notice of such insufficiency.

SECTION 1. Actions brought for the recovery of any debt,
or for damages only, may be commenced either by the issuing
of a capias ad respondendum or by a summons.

Snow. 2. The process against a corporation shall he a summons, which being executed on the president, presiding oili°‘31'a or a majority of the members, the proceedings thereon
shall be the same in all other respects as against natural
persons. .

Snow. 3. The forms of Writs in civil actions shall be the
same as have been heretofore established by law and by the
usage and practice of the courts; but alterations therein may
be made or allowed by the courts, when necessary to adapt
them to changes in the law, or for other sufiicient reasons; and
all such changes and modifications of writs shall be subject to
the final control and decision of the supreme court.

_ Sizer. 4. Any person demanding a writ shall file a declarat1on or precipe with the clerk of the court, who shall thereupon
make out and deliver such writ as may be properly required.

SECT. 5. Where process requiring bail is executed, no appearance bail shall be demanded, but the officer executing such
process shall take a recognizance of special bail of some freeholder resident in this state, on the back of the writ, in substance as follows:

“ I, A B , do hereby acknowledge myself special bail for the within named , in the suit

specified in the within writ. Witness my hand this———day
Of , A0 Do To
A B .33

Which shall have the force and effect of a recognizance of
special bail, and shall, in all respects, be obligatory as such.

SE01‘. 6. Special bail shall not be required in any case until
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney at law, shall make and file
with the clerk or court where suit is instituted, an affidavit specifying the plaintifff’s right to recover an existing debt or
damages from the defendant, and also stating that he believes
the defendant is about to leave the state of Indiana, taking with
him property subject to execution, or money, or effects which
shou d be applied to the payment of the plaintifff’s debt or damages, as the case may be, with intent to defraud said plaintiffl?‘

Snow. 7. Any such recognizance of special bail shall only
amount to an undertaking, that the defendant will surrender his
body, or the money, property, and effects, or the value thereof,
held and possessed by him at the time of making such affidavit;
and in default of such surrender, the surety in such recognizance
shall only be liable for the amount of such property, monies:
and effects, which the plaintifff may show the defendant to have
held and possessed at the time of making such aHidavit.T

Szcr. 8. Bail, upon the filing of such affidavit, may be ordered to be required by the circuit court of such county, by
any judge thereof, or by the clerk of such court.

Seer. 9. When such order for bail is obtained, the clerk
shall endorse the order on the writ of capias ad respondendum,
and. also the amount of the debt or damages specified in such affldavit, and attest the same under his hand.

 

   

Star. 10. No writ of capias ad respondendum shall be delivered by any clerk to any officer to be executed, until the order
for bail has been obtained and endorsed on such writ, as required in the preceding sections.

Snow. 11. Afiidavits of the laintifi"s right to the debt or
damages which he claims may e made by any person residino
in this or any other state, territory, or country; and additionzil
affidavits may be made by other persons, stating the further
grounds necessary to obtain an order for bail ; and upon filing
such affidavits, an order for the bail may be entered, as in other
cases.

Smcr. 12. Any such affidavit coming from another state or
territory, shall be authenticated in the manner prescribed by
the laws of this state for the admission of records and judicial
proceedings of other states a evidence.

Snow. 13. The sheriff, or other officer to whom any writ of
capias ad respondendum shall be delivered, shall execute the
same, by arresting the body of the defendant, and holding him
in custody until discharged according to law. "

Snow. 14. When any defendant arrested on any such pro-'
cess shall have given special bail as aforesaid, or for want
thereof shall be committed to prison, the officer executing the
writ shall specially endorse and return the same upon such
process. ‘

Snow. 15. When any person who is arrested on civil process is committed to prison for want of bail, he shall be held in
prison, unless he is bailed, or otherwise legally discharged, until
final judgment in the suit in which he is arrested; and if such
judgment be against him, he shall be held for such time
thereafter as the court shall direct, not to exceed ten days, in
order that the plaintifff may take his body in execution.

Sncr. 16. When any such defendant is in prison by virtue
of any such Writ, and process has been executed more than ten
days before the term to which such writ is returnable, if the
plaintifff shall not declare against him, at least ten days previous
to such term, such defendant shall be entitled to be discharged
from his imprisonment, and have judgment of discontinuance
against the plaintifff.

Snow. 17. If the laintiff deem the bail insufficient, he may
at the term to vvhic the writ is returnable, or at the next
term thereafter, if final judgment shall not have been given, obJect to the sufiiciency of the ball, by giving three days’ notice
of the objection to the officer to whom the writ was directed.

Sncr. 18. At the time specified in such notice, the court
She?“ proceed to hear and determine as to the sufliciency of such
balls and if adjudged insutiicient, and other bail approved by the
court is not given, such bail shall not be thereby discharged, but
the plaintifff may proceed against such bail, as if they had not

been determined insufiicient; and if he cannot recover the
amount for which such bail may have become liable, the officer
taking such bail shall be liable on his ofiicial bond for the same,
or so much as may remain unsatisfied, and for the costs of such
suit against the bail.

Snow. 19. If the plaintifff shall neglect or fail to establish the
insufficiency of the bail, as prescribed in the last three preceding sections, the sheriff shall not be liable to such plaintifff on
account of the insufiiciency of such bail, if it shall appear that
he acted with due care and attention in accepting the same;
otherwise he and his sureties shall be liable.

Sacr. 20. If any notice respecting the insufliciency of the
bail as above provided is insufficient, the court may grant
further time during the same or the next term of the court, to
make and give notice of objections to bail, if final judgment in
the mean time shall not be given.

Srzcr. 21. When any person shall be committed to prison
on mesne process, as before provided, for want of special bail,
he may sue out a writ of habeas corpus in any court, or before
any judge of competent jurisdiction; and on the return thereof,
the plaintifff shall be compelled to show that the facts alleged in
the affidavit on which the defendant is held to bail are true, and
on failure so to do, the defendant shall be discharged.

Snow. 22. Such discharge shall exonerate the special hail
from all further liability, and may be shown as a valid defense
to any suit or proceeding which shall be instituted against such
bail on their recognizance, or against the officer having such
dgfendant in custody, for an escape on account of such disc arge. ,

Snow. 23. When any summons, as in this article provided,
is issued, it shall be served either personally on the defendant,
gr by leaving a copy thereof at his usual or last place of resience.

Sscr. 24. When any Writ of summons or capias is returned
“ not executed,” or “not found,” the clerk, at any time after
the return day thereof, without any order to that effect from
the court, may issue another writ in the same case; and in like
manner, from return day to return day, as often as the same is
demanded, until a writ shall be returned fully executed.

Snow. 25. All writs of summons, and of capias ad respondendum, may be issued by the clerk of the court in vacation or
in term, and shall be made returnable on the first day of the
term next after the time of issuing the same. " _

Sr.cr. 26. The officer to whom any such writ or process 18
directed, shall insert in his return, the time when such writ was
received by him, and the time of its execution. _

S1;-:c'r. 27. When one or more of the defendants reside In
any other county of this state than the one in which suit is instituted, process may issue to the sheriff or other proper officer
of that county to be executed, and shall be returned to the
court from which it was issued; but no judgment shall be given
against such defendant, unless a writ in the same suit shall have
been executed on some resident defendant of the county where
the suit was commenced.

Sizer. 28. If -a defendant reside in the county where any
suit is instituted, and afterwards flee or remove therefrom, the
plaintifff, on filing an affidavit of the fact, may have a writ
issued to the sheriff or other roper officer of any other county ;1
and if it is returned executed), he may proceed in his suit, as in
other cases.

Snow. 29. When any sheriff or other officer shall receive
any writ of capias ad respondendum, or summons issued out of
the circuit court of another county, it shall be his duty to execute the same as therein commanded, and of his doings thereon
make due return to the court whence it issued; and also, if the
writ is a capias ad respondendum, to deliver the body of the defendant or defendants to the custody of the keeper of the jail
of the county where the writ issued, unless recognizance of
special bail shall be given.

SECT. 30. When such sheriff or other officer shall deliver
such defendant or defendants as aforesaid, he shall take duplicate receipts thereof from the keeper of such jail, one of which
lfile may retain, and the other he shall annex to and return with

ie writ.

SE01‘. 31. When any writ shall be returned “ executed,” as
to one or more of the defendants, and “not found,” as to
others, the plaintifff may suggest such return upon the record,
and proceed to final judgment and execution against the defendants upon whom the writ has been executed; and may, at
any time thereafter, proceed against those “not found,” by
action against them jointly or severally."

SECT. 32. It shall not be lawful for any officer to return
“not found” as to any defendant, unless he have been once at
least to his last place of residence, if he have any within the
Jurisdiction of such oiiicer.

Sscr. 33. Plaintiffs, who are not residents of this state, before commencing any suit or proceeding whatever in any court
of this state, shall file a bond in the office of the clerk of such
court, payable to the defendant, with sufficient penalty and
sureties, to be approved by such clerk, with condition for the
Payment of all costs, which may accrue in such suit or proceeding, either to the defendant or to the officers of the court;
but such suit shall not be dismissed for want of a bond, if the
Plaintiff, or some person in his behalf, shall file such bond in

openrcourt, within such time as the court shall deem reasonable;
which bond, when executed, shall include all previous costs."

Sncr. 34. Any such bond for costs may be put in suit by
any of the persons entitled to costs.

Snow. 35. If put in suit by the defendant, he shall be entitled to recover in such suit, all. the the costs occasioned by
such first suit; and the amount of the judgment, when collected,
shall be paid into the clerk’s oilice, to be distributed by the
clerk to the persons entitled thereto.

_ Snow. 36. If the defendant do not choose to put such bond
in suit, suit may be instituted thereon in his name, for the use
of the persons entitled to costs, or any one or more of them,
and the amount thus recovered shall be paid to the persons entitled; if, however, in such case, a recovery is not had, the
person or persons for whose use such suit was instituted, shall
e liable for costs.T r

 

ARTICLE II.

Of the surrender of the principal by his bail, and the action on
the recognizancetof special bail.

SECTION Scenes
37. Bail may surrender principal. 48. Party, when discharged.
38. May take out bail piece. 49. Notiw to plaintifff of surrender.
39. Form of bail piece 50. Before judgment.
40. How certified, if writ not returned. 51. After judgment. 41. How certified by the clerk. l 52. Notice in case of non-resident plain42. Surrender in court. tiff, may be posted in the clerk’s
43. Surrender to the jailer in vacation. oiiice.
44. Bail shall deliver a copy of the writ 53. Notice not given, bail not exonerated.
to the jailer. 54. Action on recognizance of special
45. Exoneration of bail. bail.
46. Jailer detain party in custody. 55. Limitation of such action.
47. Surrender after judgment, notice to 56. Pleadings of defendant.
be given to plaintifff.

- SE01‘. 37. Any person who has become bail for another, as
‘ provided in the preceding article, may, at any time before final

judgment against him on his recognizance of special bail, exonerate himself from all further responsibility, by surrenderin
his principal as provided in this article, upon the payment of a5
costs which shall have accrued against such bail.*

Sncr.’ 38. The bail shall have power, at any time, to take
out a bail piece, by virtue of, which he may take his principal
and deliverhirn into the custody of the proper oliicer.

Sscr. 39. Such bail piece shall consist of a copy of the
writ on which the arrest was made, and of the recognizance of
special bail, authenticated as provided in the next two sections.

S1201‘. 40. If the writ has not been returned, such copy of
the writ and recognizance may be certified to be a true copy
by the sheriff or other officer executing the writ; and in such
case it shall also be certilied thereon by the clerk of the circuit
court of the county in which such sheriff holds his office, that
such certificate is by such sheriff or other officer, and the clerk
shall affix thereto the seal of said court. 4

Snow. 41. Whether such writ has been returned or not, a,

a copy thereof and of such recognizance, duly certilied by the
clerk of the court to which such writ is returnable, and sealed
with the seal of said court, shall be a sufficient bail piece.

Saar. 42. If the court to which the writ is returnable is in
session at the time of the surrender, the same may be made in
open court; and the court shall cause the discharge of the bail
from all liability to be entered of record.

Sscr. 43. If such court is not in session, such surrender
may be made to the keeper of the jail of the county in which
the writ on which the principal was held to bail was returnable;
and such keeper shall receive the prisoner and hold him in custody in like manner as if he had beencommitted by virtue of
the writ on which he was held to bail.

Seer. 44. But the jailer shall not be bound to receive any
person so surrendered, unless the bail shall deliver to him
a copy of the writ on which the arrest took place, and of the
recognizance of special bail, attested by the officer who executed the writ, and took such recognizance, or if the same have
been returned, then by the clerk in whose custody they may
be; and the delivery of such copies with the prisoner, shall be
asufiicient warrant for the jailer, although the surrender and
Eotpmitment should prove to be unlawful on the part of the

8.! .

Seer. 45. Such keeper of the jail shall acknowledge the receptron of such principal on the bail piece, and such surrender
shall acquit the bail from all liability as such s ecial bail.

beer. 46. Every person committed to jail: upon being surrendered by his bail, shall be held in custody by the keeper
tlliirepf; and if such surrender is before judgment against such
Principal, he may be bailed as if he had been committed on process, whether notice of the surrender shall have been given to
the plaintiff or not; and he shall, in all respects, have the same
rights and privileges, as‘ if he had been committed on the writ
on which such recognizance Was taken.

Snow. 47. If such surrender be made after such judgment, by the bail delivering him irjto the custody of the keeper
of the jail, such keeper shall detain the person so surrendered .
in his custody for the space of five days after notice of such
surrender shall have been given to the plaintiff, in order to give
such plaintifff time to charge such person in execution.

Sister. 48. If such person is not charged in execution within
the time prescribed, he shall be discharged out of custody, without the necessity of any writ orlegal proceeding for that purpose. e l
Sncr. 49. The bail shall, within ten days after such surrender,
cause notice of the time and place thereof to be given to the
plaintifff or his attorney. .

Sncr. 50. If the surrender of such principal is before judgment against him, notice thereof ma be served on the plainti
or his attorney by any person of ful age. a .

Sncr. 51. If such surrender is made after judgment,» notice
thereof shall be served by any sheriff, or his deputy, of the county
where such plaintifff or his attorney resides ; and in the last mentioned case a copy of such notice, attested by the officer serving
the same, shall be delivered -to the keeper of the jail having such
principal in custody, on or before the expiration of ten days from

the time of the surrender.
» Snow. 52. If, however, when such surrender is made after

" judgment against the principal, and the plaintifff at the time
thereof shall not reside in this state, and shall have no attorney in this state, notice shall be posted up for ten days from
the time of such surrender in the clerk’s office of the county in

which the surrender was made, and a copy of such notice, attested by the clerk, shall be forthwith thereafter delivered to

the keeper of such jail.
Sncr. 53. If any bail shall not comply with the provisions

"i of the two preceding sections, so far as the same .require notice
to plaintifff's of the surrender of the principal after judgment
against him, and such principal shall be discharged out of cut!tody by the keeper of the jail for not being charged in executiml
by the plaintiff, such bail shall continue liable on his recognizance:
in like manner as if such surrender had never been made.

3- Snow. 54. Whenever an action shall in any case have accrued

’f against any special bail, the creditor may maintain an
debt on the recognizance of special bail in his own name.

of Srzcr. 55. . No such action shall be maintained again?-t any
person as bail, unless the writ therein be sued out w1tl}1I1_tW°

years after the rendition of final judgment against the princlP“l'

»f Snow. 56. The defendant in any such action may plead that

he never became bail as alleged against him, and shall there1lP°“

action of

be entitled to every ground of defense of which he could have .
availed himself upon a plea that such recognizance was not his '
deed; or he may plead specially any sufficient matter in his dis- charge.

ARTICLE III.

Of the commencement and maintaining of suits by or against» infants, and by and against poor persons.

Sscrion ‘ SECTION
57. Infant may maintain actions. 65. When guardian responsible for costs.
58. Next friend appointed for infant who 66. When party may sue or defend as a
is sole plaintifff before process. poor person.

59. Next friend shall assent in writing. 67. Aflidavit. i
60. On filing such assent process to issue. 68. Court may admit such person.

61. Court may remove next friend. 69. Person thus admitted not liable for
62. Courtmay require surety of such next costs.

friend. 70. Same.
63. Guardian ad litem. 71. Court may for improper conduct im64. How appointed. pose costs.

Sscr. 57. When any infant shall have any right of action
to recover real property, or any interest therein, or the possess_Ion thereof, or to recover any debt or damages, he shall be entitled to maintain a‘ suit thereon; and the same shall not be
delayed or deferred on account of such infant not being of full
age.

Snow. 58. Before any process shall be issued in the name of

an infant who is a sole plaintifff in any suit, a competent and
I‘e_sponsible person shall undertake to appear therein as the next
friend for such infant; and such next friend shall be responsible
for the costs of such suit.
. Sscr. 59. When any suit is to be brought in the name of such
infant, the person proposed to be the next friend of the infant
shall give his consent thereto in writing, which shall be filed in
the clerk’s office in which such suit is to be instituted.

Sscr. 60. Upon the filing of such consent, process may issue, i
and such suit proceed without any order or leave of the court, ‘
01‘ any judge thereof, for the appointment of a next friend."

Snow. 61. But the court in which such suit is pending, if it shall appear that such next friend is incom etent or irresponsible, 3
may remove him, and permit some suitab e person to be substituted, without prejudice to the progress of the_suit.

.S1:c'r. 62. The court, in its discretion, may require any next <
friend of an infant in a suit to recover any debt or dama es, to ‘
execute a bond to such infant, with sutiicient sureties to %e a
P1‘0ved by the court, conditioned that such next friend shall du y

account to such infant for all monies which may be recovered

in such suit.
Sncr. 63. When any suit shall be prosecuted against any

infant defendant, the plaintifff shall proceed no further in suchsuit after the service and return of process, and filing of the declaration, until a guardian shall be appointed for such infant in
the defense of such suit.

Snow. 64. Such guardian shall be such discreet person willing
to receive the appointment as such infant defendant shall name;
or if such defendant on the first calling of the cause, fail to name
to the court some suitable person, the court shall appoint a guardian for such infant for the purpose aforesaid.

Sncr. 65. No person appointed as such guardian shall be
liable for the costs of such suit, unless ‘charged by the special
order of the court for some personal misconduct in such cause.

Sizer. 66. Every poor person not having sufficient means to
prosecute or defend any suit, may petition the court in which
such suit is intended to be brought,~or is depending, for leave to
prosecute or defend, as the case may be, as a poor person.

SECT. 67. Such person shall make and file in the proper
court, an affidavit, if aplaintifff, setting forth the nature of his
cause of action, and if by the defendant, the nature of his defense to such action; and it shall also be specified in every such
affidavit, that the person making the same is not worth in property, after the payment of his just debts, the sum of twenty
dollars, exclusive of the necessary Wearing apparel of himself
and family, and that he verily believes that injustice is about to
be done to him for the want of the necessary means to prosecute
or defend such suit, as the case may be.

Snow. 68. The court to which such application shall be made,
if satisfied of the facts alleged, shall admit him to prosecute or defend as a poor person, and shall assign him counsel and attorneys, and all other officers requisite for prosecuting or defending
his suit, who shall do their duty therein without taking any fee
or reward therefore.

Sizer. 69. Every person so admitted shall not be liable to
pay any fees to any officers or ministers of justice, and 811311110‘
be prevented from being so admitted by reason of his being liable
for any costs of any former suit brought by him against the same
party. . _
S1-zcr. 70. If the plaintifff who is thus admitted be non-suited:
or a verdict or judgment be given against him, or if judgment
be given against any such defendant, neither of such persons
thus admitted shall be liable for any costs in any such suit.

Sncr. 71. If the person so admitted be guilty of any imP"°‘
per conduct, or of any unjustifiable delay in the progress of_sl§Ch
suit, the court may, in its discretion, annul the order admitting
him to prosecute or defend as aforesaid; and he shall thereafter
be deprived of all benefit of the order admitting him to P’°s°'
cute or defend as such poor person.

ARTICLE IV.

Of the abatement of suits by death, marriage, or otherwise, and
of their revival; and also of the efect of certain pleas in

SE(.'1'ION Sscrxon
72. When cause of action shall survive 88. When to issue.
to party to the suit. 89. Proceedings on return of scire facias.

73. When to executors or adxninistra- 90. Against executor or administrator,

before the year expires. .
74. When against executors or adminis- 91. Non-joinder of a party pleaded in

trators. abatement, plaintifff may amend.
75. Trustees or guardians. 92. Plaintiff may take a writ for the par76. Same ty named in such plea.
77. Marriage of female plaintifff before 93. Such party bound to appear and anjudgment. swer the plaintifffs action.
78. After judgment. 94. Proceedings if writ returned “not
79. Alleged husband may controvert mar- found. ”
riage. 95. Bail in such case.
80. Death. removal, &c. of officers, pub- 96. Infancy pleaded, plaintifff, as to the
lie trustees, &c. pending an action. infant. may di5¢0miI1l1981. Party becoming insane pending an 97. Plaintiff may omit name of infant
action. defendant.
8?. This article applicable to appeals. 98. Plaintiff may amend by striking out
83. Party dying before appeal filed. the name of a defendant.
84. Other cases. 99. Such defendant may be called as a
85. Actions, when they survive to or witness.
against the heir. 100. Parties may amend,‘&.c. when neces86. Pleadings incases of revivor of suits, sary by the provisions of this ar&& ticle. ‘
37. Scire facias.

Saar. 72. If in any action there be two or more plaintifffs,
a_nd one or more of them die before judgmentttherein, the action shall not be thereby abated if the cause of action survive
to the surviving plaintid or plaintifffs; and where there are two or
more defendants in any action, and one or more of them die be_f0re_ final judgment, such action shall not be thereby abated; but

the executor or administrator of such deceased party against
the defendant therein, his executor or administrator, and prosecuted to final judgment, as if the some had been originally

& -—..__.

instituted by such executor or administrator against such defendant or his executor or administrator.
Smcr. 74. When any action shall have abated by the death

of the defendant, or of a surviving defendant against whom the
action shall have been continued, such action, if the same might
be brought against the executors or administrators of any such
defendant, may be revived against them, and prosecuted to final
judgment, in like manner as if such action had been originally
instituted against such executors or administrators.

SE01‘. 75. Whenever a trustee or guardian who is a party
to a suit shall die, and there is one or more surviving trustees
or guardians, such suit shall not abate, but may be continued by

or against the surviving trustees or guardians.
Srzcr. 76}. VVhen a suit shall abate.by the death of a sole or
a . . u h

:- Snow. 77. If a female plaintifff or defendant marry after suit

brought and before final judgment, such suit shall not abate
thereby, but upon such marriage, and the name of the husband
being suggested on the record, such action may proceed for or
against such husband and wife, and be determined in like manner as if such marriage had taken place before the commencement of such suit."‘
Sacr. 78. If a female plaintifff or defendant marry after»

final judgment against her, upon a rule for that purpose being
served upon her husband, his name may be suggested on the
record, and execution awarded by the court," .

the name of her husband.
SECT. 79. If any alleged husband is sought to be made :1

 party to any such suit or judgment, he shall have the same

right to contest the fact of marriage, as if the suit had been oriinally brought against him as the husband of such female deIf-E SEC'I'- _80. When any action is brought by
’ ’ any public officer, or by any trustee or trustees in
c. of a corporation, the death, removal, or resignation of any suqh
ac’ 095031‘ 01‘ trustee, or of all such trustees, shall not abate the Sulb
but the same may be continued by the successor or successors,
who shall be- substituted for that p ose by the court, and a
suggestion of such substitution shall e entered on the records

If necessary.
SE01‘. 81. If, during the pendency of any

f§“° party shall become insane, the action may be prosecuted Qrh d
' a

fended by the guardian of such party, in like manner as if it
been commenced after the appointment of such guardian.

Sscr. 82. The provisions of this article shall apply to all
cases appealed to any court, in like manner as to cases originally instituted in such court.

SECT. 83. When an appeal from any judgment or final determination has been prayed to a superior court, and before
such appeal has been filed in said court, the sole appellant or
appellee, or one or more of several appellants or appellees, shall
die, such appeal may nevertheless be filed, and the death of the
party shall be suggested on the record; and such action shall
proceed by or against the survivors, or the heirs, executors, or
administrators may be substituted in like manner as if such suit
hadbeen originally instituted in such court.

Sacr. 84. All cases of personal actions not provided for by
this article, where there are plaintifffs or defendants to or against
whom the cause of action shall survive, or when the suit shall
abate by the death of the plaintifffs or defendants, shall be governed by the provisions of the fifteenth article of the thirtieth
chapter of these Revised Statutes. *

Sac-r. 85. Whenever any suit shall abate by the death of the
plaintifff or the defendant, and the right of action shall survive
to or against his heir, such action may be revived by or against
such heir; or if in any such action, both the plaintifff and defendant shall die, such action may be revived by the heir against
the heir, and prosecuted to final judgment.

Sacr. 86. Whenever any suit shall be revived, as provided
by law, the parties by or against whom the same is revived, respectively, may declare, amend, and plead therein, and prosecute and defend, in their own names,until the suit is determined,
as if such suit had been ori ina-lly instituted by or against them
in their own names, or in t eir representative character, as the
case may be.

SE01‘. 87. Where any person who is entitled to prosecute or
defend any suit, on the death of any party, or otherwise, does
not voluntarily appear for that purpose, a scire facias, or citation,
at_the option of the other party, may be had against him, requiring such person to appear and take upon himself the prosecution or defense of such suit.

Sscr. 88. Such scire facias or citation may be issued by the
clerk in term or in vacation. If taken out in term, it may be
Iiiade returnable at the same or the next term, as the court shall
direct. If taken out in vacation, it shall be made returnable to
the next term after the date of issuing the same.

S_r-:cr. 89. If the person thus cited or notified by scire
facias shall not appear at the time specified, or within such further time as the court in its discretion may allow, the same
PW‘-eedings may be had against him as if he were a party to
Fhe original action‘, and had failed to appear in such suit, and
Judgment shall be rendered against him in like manner as if

he had been a party to such original suit; or if he be an executor
or administrator, as if he were a party to such suit in said
capacity. ’

i SECT. 90. Any such citation or scire facias may be issued
against any executor or administrator before the expiration of
one year from the date of his letters; but the recovery of any
judgment against him before the expiration of the said year,
shall not authorize the opposite party to have any process or
other proceedin s for the collection of any judgment which he
may recover, ot er than may be given to other creditors of the
estate of the deceased. ‘

SECT. 91. When the defendant in any actionfounded‘ on contract, covenant, or agreement, shall plead in abatement the nonjoinder of any other person or persons as defendant, the court
may, at any time before issue joined on such plea, allow the plaintifff, on such terms as they shall prescribe, to amend his declaration by inserting therein the name of any other person or persons as defendant or defendants, jointly with the original defendant or defendants. . i

SECT. 92. The plaintifff may thereupon take outa new Writ

" of summons, to require such additional defendant or defendants
to appear and answer as a defendant or defendants in the original action; or he may have a new ‘writ of capias ad respondendum, in like manner as in the commencement of any such
suit; and every such writ shall be returnable at such time as the
court shall direct. '

Seer. 93. Upon the return of such new writ, every person

If named therein as a defendant, upon whom the same shall have
been executed, shall be bound to appear as therein required, and
answer with the other defendants, in the same manner as if they
had all been ori inally made parties to the first writ.

Sac-r. 94. I such new writ shall be returned “ not foundo”

it as to all or any of the defendants named therein, such return
may be suggested on the record, and the plaintifff may proceed
to judgment and execution against the defendants who have
been served with process, whether upon the first or new Wflta
in like manner as if all _the defendants, named in both WTIIS7
had been included in the first writ.

Seer. 95. The plaintifff shall have the same benefit of any
bail taken on each of said writs, as if the same had been taken
in the usual manner upon the first writ. _

{dc S_Ec'r. 96. If any one or more of several defendants in an)’
»m;8 action upon any contract, covenant, or a reement, shall
_ their infancy in abatement or bar, the p aintifi", before issue
joined thereon, may discontinue as to such defendant or defen ants, and proceed against the remaining defendant or defendants:
in like manner as if the suit had been originally brought against

him or them alone; and such discontinuance shall not delay 91'

affect the right of the plaintifff to recover against such remaining defendant or defendants.

S1:c'r. 97. If, in case of any contract, agreement, or covenant, any person, otherwise proper and necessary to be made a j
defendant, shall be an infant, the plaintifff may omit to include i
the name of such infant as a defendant to such action; and if _

such omission shall be objected to by plea or otherwise, the
plaintifff may reply or show such infancy; and if the same shall

e determined for the plaintifff, he may proceed and recover
against the person or persons made defendants in such action,
as if the contract, promise, or agreement, upon which such
action is founded, had been made with such defendant or defendants alone.

Seer. 98. In an action where there are two or more defendants, the plaintifff may amend his writ and pleadings by
striking out the name or names of one or more of the defendants; but in every such ‘case such defendant or defendants
shall be entitled to costs up to the time of such amendment.

Snow. 99. Where any such amendment is not made until
after the testimony in chief or otherwise has been closed on the
part of the defense, the remaining defendant or defendants
may‘, nevertheless, examine any defendant as a witness whose
name haslbeen thus stricken out, if he be otherwise competent.

Sac-r. 100. In all the cases mentioned in this article, where
any change shall happen in a suit after its commencement, the
court may allow all necessary‘ suggestions and entries to be
made on the record, and such amendments of the declaration
and other pleadings as the case may require.

ARTICLE V.

Of the limitation of personal dCti07l8Swrlon SECTION
101. Actions limited to six years, 9 111. Death of party before time limited
102. Bonds, notes, contracts in writing, expiresjudgments, &.c. not within the 112. How limitation affected by failure of
provisions of last section. process. abatement. or arrest. or
103.. Asault and battery and false im- reversal of judgment, &,c. p
prisonment, three years. 113. Party concealing, cause of action.
104. Slander and libel, one year. 114. Case not taken out of the operation
105. Penalty, &c. under a statute, two of this article, except by promise
Y9&f9- in writing, &.c.
106. Mutual and open accounts. 115. Joint contractors, &.c. promise of
107. Other actions limited to twenty one shall not affect the others.
Y93l'B- 116._ Judgment against the contractor,
108' S°t'°3- &.c. who is bound by the new
109- Exception in favor of infants, mar. - promise.
‘led W0meTl» 511% 117. To plea that others ought to haw
110- When defendant is out of the state been joined. 611011 DOW P1'°ml5°

when cause of action accrued. may be shown.

5|-‘.G'I.‘1ON SECTION
118. The last four sections quaJified—-ef- 120. Actions by or on behalf of the state

fect of payment of any part of limited asother actions.
principal or interest. 121. Judgment or decree presumed paid
119. Payment by a joint contractor, &c. after twenty years.
shall not affect his co-contractor. 122. When certain provisions of this are ticle shall take effect.

S1-:c'r. 101. The following actions shall be commenced within
six years next after the cause of action shall accrue, and not

afterwards. *‘ _
1. All actions of debt founded upon any contract or liability,

except as provided in the next section. J _
2. All actions upon judgments rendered before a justice of

the peace, or in any court not. being a court of record.

3. All actions for arrears of rent. V .

4. All actions of assumpsit,.or upon the case founded on a
contract or liability, express or im lied, except as provided in
the next section.T »

5. All actions for waste, and for trespass upon land.

6. All actions of replevin, and all other actions for taking,

detaining, or injuring goods or chattels. .
7. All other actions on the case, except actions for slanderous words, and for libel. 1 _ _
Sizer. 102. None of the provisions of the foregoing section

shall apply to any action brought upon any bond, promissory
note, or contract in writing,1 norlto any action brought upon

 any bills, notes, or other evidencesof debt issued by any bank:
where the suit is against such bank, nor to any action brought

on the judgment or decree of any court of record of this state,
or of the United States, or of any state or territory of the United States.
Saar. 103. All actions for assault and battery and for false

imprisonment, shall be commenced within three years next
after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwardsSncr. 104. All actions for slanderous words and for libel;

shall be commenced within one year next after the cause 0
action shall have accrued, and not afterwards.

SECT. 105. All actions founded upon any act of the general
assembly, now or hereafter in force for the recovery of any
penalty or forfeiture, whether the right of action is limited to
the party aggrieved in Whole or in part, shall be commenced
Within two years next after the cause of action shall have accrued, and n_ot afterwards.

SECT. 106. In all actions of debt or assumpsit, where there
are mutual and open accounts current between the parties, the
cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued at the time of
the last item proved in such account. "

SECT. 107. All personal actions on any contract, not limited
by the provisions of the foregoing sections of this article, shall
be brought within twenty years after the accruing of the cause
of action, and not afterwards.

Sacr. 108. Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to limit or prevent any party to any suit from pleading
or replying any matter of set-off or payment, to the amount of
any cause of action or defense which may be alleged.

Sizer. 109. If any person entitled to bring any of the actions mentioned in this article, shall at the time when the cause
of action accrues, be within the age of twenty-onevyears, or a
married Woman, or insane, imprisoned, or absent from the United
States, such person may bring said action within one year after
Such disability shall be removed.

Sacr. 110. If at the time when any cause of action men-tioned in this article shall accrue against any person, he shall

be out of the state, the action may be commenced, Within the
time herein limited therefore, after such person shall come into
the state; and if, after any cause of action shall have accrued, the person against whom it has accrued shall be absent
from and reside out of the state, the time of his absence shall
not be taken as any part of the time limitedfor the commencement of the action.

. SECT. 111. If any person entitled to bring or liable to any
of the actions mentioned in this article, shall die before the expiration of the time herein limited for the commencement of
such action, and the cause of action by law survives to or
against his representatives, such action may be commenced by
01' against the executor or administrator of such deceased per80_n, after the expiration of the time herein limited, at any time
;Y1t_l1I(r1i eighteen months after such death, but not after that

erio .

. SE_c'r. 112. If in any action duly commenced within the time
111 this article limited and allowed therefore, the writ shall fail for

a sufficient service or return, by any unavoidable accident, or
bx any default or neglect of the officer to Whom it may be com- *
mitted, or if the Writ shall be abated, or the action otherwise ;

avoided or defeate'd by the death of any party thereto, or for
any matter of form, or if the suit shall be discontinued for want
of a court at any regular term, _or if jud merit after verdict
shall be arrested, or if judgment for the paintitf shall be reversed on error or appeal, the plaintifff may commence a new
action for the same cause, at any time within one year after the
abatement or other determination of the original suit, or after
the reversal of the judgment therein; and if the cause of action
does in any such case by law survive, the executor or administrator of the plaintifff may, in case of his death, commence said
new action within one year after his death.

SECT. 113. If any person liable to any of the actions mentioned inithis article, shall conceal the cause of such action
against him from the knowledge of the person entitled thereto,
the action may be commenced at any time within the period
limited therefore, commencing from the time the person entitled
to bring the same shall discover that he has such cause of action against the person so liable and concealing the same, and
not afterwards. *‘

Sncr. 114. In actions of debt, or upon the case founded on
any contract, no acknowledgment or promise shall be evidence
of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take any case out
of the operation of the provisions of this article, or to deprive
any party of the benefit thereof, unless such acknowledgment
or promise be made by or contained in some writing signed by
the party chargeable thereby.

Sncr. 115. If there are two or more joint contractors or
joint executors or administrators of any contractor, no such
joint contractor, executor, or administrator, shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this article, so as to be chargeable by
reason only of any acknowledgment or promise made or signed
by any other or others of them. '

SECT. 116. In actions commenced against two or more joint
contractors, or joint executors or administrators of any contractor, if it shall appear on the trial, "or otherwise, that the
plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this article, as to one or
more of the defendants, but is entitled to recover against any
other or others of them, by virtue of a new acknowledgmeI_1¢a
or promise, or otherwise, judgment shall be given for the plaintifff, as to any of the defendants against whom he is entitled to
recover, and for the other defendant or defendants against the
p aintiff.

Sncr. 117. If, in any action on contract, the defendant shall

>plead in abatement that any other person ought to have been
jointly sued, and issue be joined on that plea, and it shnll_3P‘
pear _on the trial thereof, that the action was by the provisions

' of . this article barred against the person named in such pleas the
said issue shall be found for the plaintifff

Sscr. 118. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections
shall alter, take away, or lessen the effect of a payment of any
principal or interest made by any person; but no endorsement
or memorandum of any such payment, written or made upon
any promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument of
writing by or on behalf of the party to whom such payment
shall be made, or purport to be made, shall be deemed sufficient
proof of the payment, so as to take the case out of the operation of the provisions of this article.

Saar. 119. If there are two or more joint contractors, or
joint executors or administrators of any contractor, no one of
them shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this article, so as
to be chargeable by reason only of any payment made by any
other or others of them.

Sncr. 120. The limitations hereinbefore prescribed for the
commencement of actions shall apply to the same actions when
brought in the name or on behalf of the state, or in the name
of any officer, or otherwise, for the benefit of the state, in the
same manner as to actions brought by citizens.

Sscr. 121. Every judgment and decree in any court of record of the United States, or of this or any other state, shall be
presumed to be paid and satisfied at the expiration of twenty
years after the judgment or decree was rendered.

S1-zcr. 122. None of the provisions of this article respecting

the acknowledgment of a debt, or a new promise to pay it, shall i
apply to any such acknowledgment or promise made before the i

first day of January in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and forty-four; but every such last acknowledgment or promise, although not made in writing, shall have the
same effect as if no provision relating thereto had been herein
contained.

ARTICLE VI.

General provisions concerning actions.

SW10“ SECTION

123. Actions which shall survive, &c. 128. Charge of incest, fornication, adul124- B3’ and against whom such actions tcry, whoredom, &.c., actionable,
may be commenced. without alleging or showing special

125- Cases in which exemplary damages, damages.
&c. shall not be given. 129. Debt on a foreign decree.

125' Execmofs 550. of person claiming a 130. Distinction between declarations in
Epecial property, recovering goods trespass and case shall no longer
0!’ damages, the same shall not be apply.
“*9”: 560- 131. Bonds of officers, trustees, &c. shall

127. Judgment in replevin against execu- be payable to the state, and be for
‘O1’. &c., shall, as to the goods re- the use of any party injured.

covered, exonerate him, doc.

~ Sacrxon
146. Verdict shall be entered; judgment

for penalty and costs; judgment
for damages, and execution for darrron
:2. Suite thereon shall be in the name

of the obligee, &.c.

:3. How stated in the pleadings, &c.

54. When and how other suits may be mages and costs.
brought on the same bond. 147. Form of such execution.

35. Suit and judgment deemed personal 148. Judgment in action on penal bond

suit and judgment of the relator. for payment of money.
Costs. 149. Effect of satisfaction of judgmentin
36. Certified copy of such bond,evidence, suit on bond.

150. Proceedings in case of further breaches may be by scire facias.

151. Damages and execution therefore.

152. Effect of satisfaction of such second

&.c.
.37. When one action may be brought
on the same bond by several relators, &c.
138. Bond not void for want of form. judgment. Further proceedings,
l39. Proceedings on defective bond. &.c.
I40. Former judgment or decree esta- 153. Suits by oilicers against officers, on
blishing defective bond conclusive. their oilicial bonds.
141. Such bond effective from its execu- 154. Plaintiff in any action may dismiss

the same in vacation.
155. Plaintiff in such case not liable to
costs after notice to the adverse ’

tion
142. In actions on bonds, plaintiff shall
only recover amount he is equitably

entitled to. party.
143. When plaintifff shall assign breaches. 156. Second suit on same cause of action
144. Assessment of damages by jury on not to abate in such case.

such assignment. 157. Suit by holder of a note against all

145. Judgment on demurrer, &.c., jury the parties thereto.
shall assess damages; or if breaches
are not assigned, they may be assigned and damages assessed.

Sacr. 123. In addition to the actions that survive by the
principles of the common law, the following shall also survive,
to-wit: actions of replevin and trover, and actions of trespasss
and trespass on the case, for damage done to real or personal
estate. _ '

Sacr. 124. All the said last mentioned actions may be originally commenced by and against executors and administrators;
and if commenced by or against the original party in his lifetime,

they may be prosecuted or defended by or against his executor
or. administrator.

. Seer. 125. When an action of trespasseis commenced 01‘
prosecuted against any executor or administrator of the trespasser, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover only for the_valI18
of the goods taken, or for the damage actually sustained, Without
any vindictive or exemplary damages, or damages for any alleged outrage to the feelings of the injured party.

Sacr. 126. When the executor or administrator of a_tI‘11Sl°°

" carrier, depositary, or other person who claimed a special P"°’
perty in any goods, to hold them for the use and benefit of

r- another, ‘shall recover such goods, or damages for the taking

or detention thereof, in an action of replevin, or trOVCl'9 0}’ “'9:

at Pass: the goods or money so recovered, shall not be consldeift

c- as assets in the hands of such executor or admmistratgf, ‘_1d
e par

shall, after ‘deducting the costs and expenses of the suits

over and delivered to the person for whose use and benefit
they were so held and claimed b the deceased person.

Sscr. 127. When judgment or a return in an action of replevin, shall be rendered against an executor or administrator, the
goods returned by him shall not be considered as any part of
the assets which may have come to his hands; and if they shall
have been included in the inventory, it shall be a sufficient discharge for such executor or administrator to show that they
have been returned in pursuance of such judgment.

Sncr. 128. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or
whoredom, falsely made by any person against any female;
also any words falsely spoken of and concerning any person,
charging such person with incest, sodomy, buggery, bestiality,
or the infamous crime against nature, either with mankind or
any of the brute creation, shall be in" themselves actionable
Without alleging or proving any special damages, in like manner
and governed by the same rules and principles of law as in the
case of slanderous words, charging a crime, the commission of
which would subject the offender to death or to degrading pains
and penalties. " 7

Snow. 129. Money due by a final decree of a court of chancery, or of a court having chancery jurisdiction, without this i
_sta_te may be recovered in an action of debt in like manner as
If It were a judgment.

Sncr. 130. In all actions of trespass and trespass on the L
case, the declaration shall be deemed equally good and valid to 
all intents and purposes, whether the same shall be in form a}
declaration in trespass or trespass on the case.

Sncr. 131. All bonds or obligations directed or required to 1
be given by any guardian, trustee, receiver, executor, or admi- I
mstrator; and all official bonds required and directed by law to 1
be given by officers for the faithful discharge of the duties of 1
their offices or trust, shall be made payable to the state of In- 1
diana, and are hereby declared to be to, and for the use of, and
In trust for, the person or persons interested, or who may be

injured or aggrieved by any default, malconduct, or other viola’ tions of any such trust or duty by which any condition of such

bond is broken. "

Sncr. 132. Suits thereon shall‘ be in the name of the obligee
for the use of the persons interested, injured, or aggrieved; and
the benetit of every such bond and obligation shah be extended
to all such persons, so that no such bond shall be void on the
first recovery, but may be put in suit from time to time, at the
the instance and for the benefit of the party interested, injured,
or aggrieved, whenever and as often as necessary, until the
whole penalty of the bond shall be exhausted.

Sncr. 133. When suit is brought on any such bond it shall
be stated in the process, pleadings, proceedings, and record in
such action, that the same is brought on the relation of the
person for whose use and benefit such suit is instituted.

Sncr. 134. During the pendency of any suit upon any such
bond, or after judgment rendered in such suit, any other party
aggrieved by any default, delinquency, negligence, or misconduct of such officer, may, in like manner, have a suit instituted
thereon; and the pendency of any other suit on the relation of
any other person on the same bond, or a previous judgment recovered thereon, by or against any other relator, shall not abate
or in any manner affect such suit or the proceedings therein,
until the whole penalty of such bond is exhausted.T

SECT. 135. Every suit brought on every such bond, and
every judgment rendered thereon, shall be deemed to all intents
and purposes the personal suit of the party on whose relation
the same shall be brought or obtained; and the suit may be
discontinued, and the relator may be nonsuited as in private
suits, and the judgment therein may be discharged by su(_‘-l1_1‘8'
lator in the same manner as if he were the nominal plaintifff;
and such judgment shall be deemed satisfied in the same cases
as judgments in favor of individuals; and judgment for costs
may be awarded against such relator in the same manner.

Saar. 136. Whenever any suit is brought on any bond of
any trustee, guardian, executor, administrator, receiver, or any

state, county, or township officer, the relator in such suit may procure a certified copy of the bond from the officer in whose custody the same is by law; and such copy, duly certified by such
officer and sealed with the seal of his court, or of .his office, if
he have such seal, and if not, by his private seal, or ink scrawl,
and certified and attested as required in the three hundred and
sixth section of this chapter, may be declared on, produced on
oyer, and adduced in evidence in such suit, in like manner and
with like effect, and subject to be controverted or rebutted in
like manner as the original thereof.

Sncr. 187. Where different persons are entitled to have an
action instituted on any such bond, if the alleged breach or
breaches are the same, and the sum due or damages are recoverable in the same identical right, one action may be brought
on the relation of all the persons tbusentitled; and recovery
may be had for the several debt or damages of each; and one
execution may issue for the whole, specifying therein the sums
to which each relator is entitled; and when collected, each
person shall be aid the amount adjudged to him.

Sac-r. 138. hen any bond, reco. nizance,* or surety is required by law to be given by any pubic officer, executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, or by any person, payable to
the state of Indiana, for the performance of any contract or
dut , or for the benefit or use of the state or any individual,
such bond or recognizance shall not be void, nor shall any such
principal or his surely be discharged from any just liability for
any want of form, or of the substantial matter, condition, or conditions required by law, nor by reason of any defect in the the

filing or approval of such bond.T

Sncr. 139. When an such bond or recognizance has not;

the formal or substantia matter, condition, or conditions, required by law, the principal obligor and his sureties shall be
equitably bound to the person entitled to any debt or damages
by reason of any neglect, misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance,
or violation of any trust or duty by such principal; and such
person may have an action instituted on such defective instrument, at law or in chancery, as the case may require; and in
such action he may suggest such defect or imperfection, and
obtain a judgment or decree thereon, and have execution
against such principal and his sureties, or the persons who
were intended and included as sureties.1

Sncr. 140. When any bond, recognizance, or instrument has
been thus established by any judgment or decree, and any person is injured or aggrieved by the violation or neglect of any
trust or duty on the part of any such principal, such person
may have a scire facias thereon, and execution awarded, as in
other cases; and such judgment or decree shall be held and
construed as fully and conclusively establishing the validity of
such ‘bond, recognizance, or instrument intended as a bond or
recognizance, so that its validity and ‘force to bind such principal and his sureties, so far as thesame has been established by
such judgment or decree, shall not be controverted in any subsequent action of debt or scire facias instituted on such bond,
judgment, or decree. ‘

Snow. 141. Every such bond or instrument shall be deemed
and taken as valid, and of full force and effect, from the time of
executing the same.

. S1-:c'r. 142. In any action brought to recover the‘ penalty of
any bond, or the penal sum contained in any agreement, covenant, mortgage, or other written contract, the plaintifff shall recover only the amount to which in equity and good conscience
he is justly entitled for the breach of any condition,-or the nonperformance of any covenant or reement contained therein?‘

' SECT. 143. When an action sh I be prosecuted in any court
of law upon any bond for the breach of any condition other
than for the payment of money, or shall be prosecuted for any
penal sum for the non-performance of any covenant or Written
contract or agreement, the plaintifff in his declaration shall assign the specific breaches for which the action is brought.T

E Sacr. 144. Upon the trial of such action, the jury shall
assess damages for as many of such breaches as the plaintifff
may prove, and shall specify the amount thereof in their verdict, in addition to their finding upon any other question of fact
submitted to them.

Sncr. 145. If in such action the plaintifff shall obtain judg"-i ment upon demurrer, or by confession, default, or nihil dicit, a
writ of inquiry shall be awarded by the court, to inquire into
3 the truth of the breaches assigned, and to assess the damages of
the plaintifff sustained thereby; or if breaches have not been
assigned, the plaintiff may assign as many breaches as he may

think proper, and a jury shall inquire into the truth of such
breaches and assess the damages which such plaintifff has thereby ‘
sustained.‘

SEc'r. 146. In every such case, if the plaintifff recover, the
verdict of the jury assessing his damages shall be entered on
the record, and judgment shall be rendered for the penalty of
the bond, or for the penal sum forfeited, as in other actions of
debt, together with the costs of suit, and with a further judgment that the plaintifff have execution to collect the damages so
assessed by the jury, and his costs; the amount of which damasges shall be specified in such judgment.1

nor. 147. The execution upon such judgment shall be in
the usual form in actions of debt, but shall contain or have endorsed thereon by the clerk issuing the same, a direction to the
sheriff or other officer to collect the amount of the damages so
assessed, with interest thereon from the time of such assessment.

Sscr. 148. In actions on penal bonds for the payment of
money, if the plaintifff shall recover, the judgment shall be given
for the penalty of the bond, to be discharged by the payment of
the principal and interest and costs of suit, and execution shall
issue therefore.1

Sncr. 149. If the amount so authorized to be levied, according to the preceding sections of this article in the case of
actions on bonds, shall be collected or fully paid and satisfied,
the real and personal estate, and the bodies of the defendants,
shall be discharged from all further liabilities and liens by virtue
of such judgment; except that such judgment shall remain in
force and as security for any damages that may be thereafter
sustained by the further breach by the defendants of any condition of such bond, or by the non-performance of any covenant
or written agreement, upon which such action was originally
brou ht, and the performance of which was secured by such
pena sum§

SECT. 150. Whenever such further breaches shall occur, the
plaintifff, or his personal representatives, or any person entitled
to an action on such bond, for his use, may have a scire facias
upon such judgment, suggesting further breaches against the
defendant and all parties bound thereby, or their executors or
administrators, and commanding that they be summoned, to
Show cause why execution shall not be issued upon such judgment for the amount of the damages sustained for such further
breaches.

Sac-r. 151. The like proceedings to ascertain such damages

' shall be had upon such scire facias as are herein provided in the

first instance, and if the plaintifff recover, judgment shall be rendered that he have execution to collect the amount of the damages assessed Ibyy the jury or otherwise, as also his costs."‘
Sec-r. 152. pon the satisfaction of any damages and interest thereon, and costs, upon such proceeding by scire facias,
the real and personal estate, and bodies of the defendants, shall
be discharged from all liabilities and liens, as in the first instance;
such original judgment remaining in force, and as a security for
further breaches, as herein before provided; and the like proceedings by scire facias may be repeated for still further breaches,
as often as they may occur, until the whole penalty is exhausted.
Sncr. 153. Any action brought against any officer on his
official bond, at the instance of any other officer, as required by

-the provisions of any law of this state, shall be stated to be on

the relation of such officer, and shall be conducted and rosecuted in the same manner as in cases of actions on official onds
by private relators, and shall be subject to all the provisions of
law concerning the same, not repugnant to the provisions authorizing such action, nor to the nature and object of such action; but such relator shall not be liable for any costs, unless
he is rendered liable therefore by the provisions of the law anthorizing or directing such suit.

SEc'r. 154. The plaintifff in any action at law pending in
any court, may file in vacation, or at any time before trial, a
dismissal of such action in writing with the clerk of such court,
who shall thereupon enter the same of record on the order book
of said court, which shall operate as a discontinuance of such
action; and at the next term of the court judgment shall be entered accordingly.

.SECT. 155. If the plaintifff shall give written notice of such
discontinuance to the defendant or defendants in such suit, or
their agent or attorney, such plaintifff shall not be liable for any
costs therein after service of such notice, except such as may
be occasioned by himself.

Seer. 156. If after such discontinuance is so entered of record, and before the judgment is entered in court thereon, an
action shall be brought, in whole or in part, for the same cause
of action, such action shall not be abated nor delayed by reason of the institution or pendency of such discontinued action;
and the defendant in such subsequent action may be held to
bail, or detained in custody for want thereof, and such suit may
progress in all respects to final judgment and execution, as If
such discontinued action had never been brought.T

Seer. 157. The holder of any note or bill of exchange negotiable by the law merchant, or by any law of this state, may
institute one suit against all the parties who may be liable to
such holder; and no such holder shall be permitted, at any

term of the circuit court, to institute more than one suit upon
any one such note or bill. " ‘

ARTICLE VII.
0f the action qf replevin.

SECTION A Sacrron
158. Jurisdiction of circuit courts in such 173. Effect of such amendment.
action. ,' 174. Different counts in the declaration.
159. When and in whose favor replevin 175. Pleadings.
will lie. 176. Statement of place, &c.
160. Replevin will not lie for goods ta- 177. Plea of general issue, &.c. in case of
ken for tax, &c. a wrongful taking.
161. Will.not lie in favor of execution 178. Same, in case of a wrongful detendefendant, except for property ‘ tion.
exempt from execution. t 179. Avowry, &.c. in distress for rent.
162. Cases in which executors, &.c. may 180. Several pleas to avowry, &.c., almaintainireplevin. lowed.
163. County in which replevin may be 181. ,PlaintiIi"s damages, how asessed.
brought. 182. Defendant may have judgment fora
164. Atiidavit. _ i return, &c. and damages.
165. Allegations requiredinthe affidavit. 183, He may take judgment for the
166. Form of the writ. value of the property.
167. Execution of the writ. ' . 184. May take such judgment in case of
.168. Plaintiffs bond to be executed to distress for rent. ‘
the defendant. 185. But he may still have his remedy
169. Oflicer shall deliver bond to defen- on his bond.
dant, &c.—action thereon. i 186. Value of property as assessed reco170.‘ Plaintiff failing to give bond, pro- vered in suit on bond.
petty to be returned to defendant. 187., Measure of damages in suit on the
171. Costs, in case of a failure to give replevin bond.
b0Dd- , 188. Measure of damages in case of spe172. Atiidavit and bond maybe amended. cial property, &c.

SEc'r.. 158. The several circuit courts Within this state are_
hereby Invested with jurisdiction to issue writs of replevin, and <
try and determine the same in the manner and in the cases
hereinafter prescribed.

Sacr. 159. When any personal goods shall be wrongfullya
taken: 01‘ unlawfully detained from the owner, or the person}

entitled to the possession thereof, or when any personal goods
taken on execution or attachment, are claimed by any person,
other than the defendant in the suit in which they are thus
taken, such owner, or person entitled to the possession thereof,
or such claimant may cause any such personal goods to be
replevied by a writ to be sued out and prosecuted for that purpose. "‘
Saar. 160. No replevin shall lie for any personal goods and

chattels taken by virtue of any warrant or precept for the collection of any tax or assessment in pursuance of any statute of
this state, by the person for whose tax or assessment such goods

were taken.
Sncr. 161. N o replevin shall lie at the suit of any defendant

in any execution or attachment, to recover any personal goods
and chattels, taken by virtue of such execution or attachment,
unless such goods and chattels are exempted by law from execution or attachment.

Saar. 162. Whenever executors or administrators, suing in
the right of another, are authorized to maintain actions of trover, trespass, or trespass on the case, for any personal property
wrongfu ly taken, or unlawfully detained, such executors or administrrators may maintain actions of replevin for such propert . .

Siiicr. 163. Whenever an action of replevin shall be brought
for the recovery of goods and chattels, it may be brought in
any county in which such goods and chattels shall be unlawfully
detained, except in cases of distress for rent, in which case the
action shall be laid in the county Where the distress was made.

Sncr. 164. Before any person shall be entitled to sue out a
writ in such action, an affidavit must be made and filed in the
proper clerk’s office, by the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf,
and sworn to before such clerk, or some person authorized to
administer such oath. i

Smcr. 165. Such affidavit must allege that the plaintifff in
such action is, '

1. The owner of the property described in such aiiidavit, or
or that he is then lawfully entitled to the possession thereof.I

2. That the same has not been taken as his property for any .
tax or assessment against him, levied by any law of this state, ‘

nor seized under any execution or attachment against his goods
and chattels liable to execution.

3. That the goods and chattels sought to be replevied have
been wrongfully taken and are unlawfully detained by the defendant, or are unlawfull detained, as the case may be. ,

4. Such affidavit shall specify the name or names of the
plaintifff or plaintifffs, and the defendant or defendants; and also
the property sought to be replevied, and the reasonable value
thereof, and in what county the same is then believed to be detained.

SECT. 166. When such affidavit is made and filed as aforesaid with the clerk of the circuit court having jurisdiction, such
clerk shall issue a writ of replevin, directed to the proper odicer, which shall be substantially in the following form:

“The state of Indiana to the of county, greeting:
Whereas, A— B— has filed. in the clerk’s office of the circuit
court for the county aforesaid, an affidavit, alleging that C—
D— has wrongfully taken and does unlawfully detain, (or “does
unlawfully detain,” as the case may be,) one horse, cow, (or
whatever the article or articles of property may be, particularly
describing the same, to be replevied,) of the alleged value of
—- dollars. You are thereforee hereby commanded to replevy
the said goods and chattels, by taking them into your custody,
and deliver the same to the said A— B—, if he will satisfy
you by giving bond with sufficient sureties, as required by law,
to duly prosecute his said action of replevin, with effect and
without delay, and to return the aforesaid goods and chattels
thus replevied, if return thereof shall be adjudged, and to pay
all such sums of money as may be recovered against him hereupon; and also, in case you replevy said goods and chattels, or
any part thereof, that you summon the said C D to
appear before the judges of the circuit court of county
aforesaid, on the (naming the proper return day of writs in personal actions,) to answer the said A— B— in the premises-”*

SECT. 167. Upon the receipt of the writ the sheriff shall
forthwith proceed to execute the same by -taking possession of
the property specified therein, or so much thereof as he can
find, and delivering the possession of the same to said plaintifff
or his agent, and by summoning the defendant according to the
tenor of the writ.

Seer. 168. But before the sheriff or officer executing such
writ shall deliver the property so replevied to the plaintifff, he
shall take from such plaintifff, or some person on his behalf, a
bond payable to the defendant, with sufiicient surety, in the

 
 

penalty of double the value of such property, with condition
that the plaintifff will duly prosecute his said suit with effect
and without delay, and that he will return said property to the
defendant if such return be adjudged by the court, and will
pay to the defendant all such sums of money as may be recovered against him by such defendant in said action for any
cause whatever. *

‘Sac-r. 169. The officer taking such bond shall deliver the
same to said defendant whenever requested; and for any
breach of the condition thereof, said defendant may bring an
action against the obligors therein named, and shall recover
such sum as shall be just and equitable.

Sncr. 170._ If, after such officer shall have replevied said
goods and chattels, the plaintifff shall fail for twenty-four hours
next after such replevin, to give bond to the acceptance of the
sheriff as aforesaid, such officer shall immediately thereafter return said goods and chattels to such defendant, or the person
from whose custody the same were taken, and take his receipt
therefore. ' _

Sncr. 171. "Any costs necessarily occasioned by the keeping
of any property from the time the same was thus re levied
until such bond is given, or in case of failure to give suc bond
then until such property is returned to the person entitled
thereto, shall be paid by the plaintifff to such sheriff; and such

costs, in case of dispute, shall be such sum as the court shall

deem reasonable. r .

Snow. 172. If the affidavit of the plaintifff is defective, l'IIS
suit shall not be dismissed therefore, if he shall, within such time
as the court shall prescribe, file an additional or supplemental
affidavit, by which the defects in the original affidavit shall be
cured; nor shall such suit be dismissed on account of any
defect in his bond, if, within the time prescribed by theicourta
he shall file a sufficient bond.

Sncr. 173. Such affidavit and bond, when filed, shall be t0
all intents and purposes, of the same force and effect as if they
had been filed at the commencement of the action. _

Sncr. 174. The plaintifff in his declaration may insert different counts for an unlawful taking and detention, and for an
unlawful detention, although the afbdavit and writ may allege
only an unlawful detention, or only an unlawful taking and detention. A l

Seer. 175. The plaintifff shall declare against the defendant
within the same time as in other ersonal actions, and in case
he shall neglect so to do, he shall e liable to the like judgment
of a non-suit or discontinuance as in such actions; and upon
filing a declaration, the same, as to the pleadings and trial, shall
proceed as in other cases. "

Snc-r. 176. It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to state
in his declaration any other place than the county where such
goods and chattels are alleged to have been taken or to be detained; except where the action shall be brought for the recovery of goods or chattels distrained.

S1-zcr. 177. When the unlawful taking of the property described in the declaration is complained of therein, the plea of
the general issue shall be, as heretofore, that the defendant did not take the goods and chattels described in the
declaration, or any of them, in manner and form as the plaintifff
has alleged; and such plea shall put in issue, not only-the taking
of such goods and chattels, but also such taking in the place
stated where the place is material. T

Seer. 178. When the action is founded on the wrongful
detention of the goods and chattels, and the original taking is
not complained of, the plea of the general issue shall be, that the
defendant does not detain the goods and chattels specified in
the declaration nor any part thereof, in manner and form as
therein alle ed, and such plea shall put in issue, not only the
detention 0% such goods and chattels, but also the property of
the plaintifff therein.1 ,

Seer. 179. In replevin in case of distress for rent, the defendants may avow or make cognizance generally, that the
plaintifff in replevin, or other tenant of the lands or tenements,

vvhereon such distress was made, enjoyed the same under a

grant or demise, or by any other title, at a certain rent or service during the time wherein the rent or service distrained for
was incurred, which rent or service was then and still remains
due; or that the place where the distress was made was parcel
of certain tenements for which the rent or service distrained

for, was, at the time of such distress, and still remains due,
without further setting forth the grant, tenure, demise, or title
of such landlord or landlords, lessor or lessors. "

_ SECT. 180. The plaintifff may plead in answer to any avowry or cognizance, as many several matters as he shall think
necessary for his defense. Saar. 181. elf, upon the trial of the cause, the verdict be in
favor of the plaintifff, the same jury shall assess the damages
which he has sustained by the unlawful taking or detention of
the property so replevied; and if judgment pass for the plaintifff
by default or upon an issue of law, the damages shall be assessed by a jury upon a writ of inquiry.‘

Snow. 18?. If it appear, upon a non-suit of the plaintifff, or
after a trial or otherwise,.that the defendant is entitled to a
return of the goods, he shall have judgment and execution
therefore, accordingly, with damages for the detention thereof,
which may be assessed by a writ of inquiry.T

Sncr. 183. The defendant, except in cases where the property replevied has been distrained, whenever he shall be entitled to a return of the property replevied, or to any part thereof,
may take judgment against the plaintifff for the value of the defendant’s interest in such property, with hisidamages for the detention thereof; in which case such value may be assessed as damages on the trial, or by atwrit of inquiry, as the case shall
require, upon which judgment he may have execution as in
other cases. ,

Sncr. 184. If ’the property replevied. shall have been distrained for rent, the defendant, whenever entitled to a return,
may proceed as follows :

1. If the defendant shall not have made an avowry or cognizance, and therein set forth the arrears of rent, he may make a subgestion on the record in the nature of an avowry or cognizance,
for the rent in arrear, and a writ of inquiry shall be awarded
to ascertain by a jury the sum in a-rrear at the time of such
distress taken, and also the value of the ‘property distrained;
and upon such inquisition the defendant shall have judgment to
recover against the plaintifff the value of the property thus distrained, not to exceed such arrearages of rent,.for which he
shall have execution as in other cases?‘

2'. If judgment shall have been given for the defendant upon
demurrer, he may make. the like suggestion of the arrears of.
rent, as above provided, if the same shall not have been already
pleaded by him, and the court shall award a like writ of inquiry,
upon which thesame proceedings shall be had, and like judgment and execution as above provided.

3. If in any of the cases specified in the preceding clauses
of this section, the defendant shall have made an avowry or
cognizance, and before the trial he shall, by the non-suit of the
plaintifff, or otherwise, be entitled to have a return of the property adjudged to him, he may have a writ of inquiry awarded
as before provided in this section, upon which the same proceedings shall be had and like judgment and execution as above
provided.

4. If the plaintifff shall suifer a non-suit after proceeding to
trial, or if the jury shall find against such plaintifff, then the
jurors that are empannelled totry such issue, shall at the prayer
of the defendant, inquire concerning the amount of rent in arrear, and the value of the property distrained; and thereupon
the defendant-shall have judgment and execution as above provided in this section. '

5. If the value of the property distrained shall not be found
to be equal to the arrears of rent distrained for, the party to
Whom such arrears were due, his executors, administrators, or
assigns may distrain again for the residue of such arrears.‘

Saar. 185. Notwithstanding the defendant may have elected
to proceed under the last two sections, he shall not be precluded
from resortin to his remedy on the plaintifff’s bond, to him taken
by the sheri .T '

.Sucr. 186.. In such case thetamountirecovered in such action of replevin, as the value of the property replevied, with
interest thereon from the date of the judgment in replevin, shall
be the measure of damages, to be added to the other damages
which may be recovered in the suit on such bond.

S1:c'r. 187. The measure of damages on the breaches assigned in any action on a replevin bond shall be the value of
the property adjudged to be returned, and “the damages and
costs recovered in the action of replevin, remaining unpaid, subject to the provisions contained‘ in the next following section.

S1-:c'r. 188. Whenever suit is brought on any such bond, and
also in any case where the defendant .in the action of replevin
shall elect to inquire by a jury the value of the property replevied, with a view to take judgment therefore, if by reason of
any special property, which the defendant in the action of replevin had in such property, or otherwise, he ought not, in strict

justice, to recover in such action of replevin, nor in the suit on

such bond the value of such property such damages may be
assessed iii lieu of such value, as shall heive been really sustained.

 

ARTICLE VIII.

Of docketing causes; of filing the declaration; qf the pleadings and making up the issues. #

Swnox Sacrton

189. Clerk to make up docket. ~ 201. Plea of payment and tender of pay190. Order of docketing causes. ment.

191. VVhen declaration shall be filed. 202. Plea of payment to action on penal

192. Cause continued, if declaration not ‘ bond, &.c.
filed ten days before first day of 203. Paymentaftersuit on such bonds“?
00\lYt~ 204. Set-off.

193. If writ served and declaration filed 205. Plea or notice of set-061
ten days before the term, cause to 206. Notice of set-off, how given. 300Proceed to issue and trial. 207. Such notice, certain asadeclaratiolh
194. Of the pleadings and making up the 208. Defence as against set-oti

issues. 2 209. If matters of set-off exceed plainti3‘8
195- PMW falling 10 Plead. 0 demand,statute of limitations shall
196. Power of court to compel the com- apply to such excess. _

pletton of the issues. 210. Plaintiff to take judgment for res!197. If both parties fail, court may non- ’ due; or if set-off equal to plainti“

suit plaintifff or continue the cause. claim, judgment shall be for de198. Clerk shall endorse time of filing fendant.

P1888. &-c. 21L If a balance be due defendant. 5°
199. Parties may plead several defenses. shall have judgment therefore; 83‘
200. Pleas in abatement must be verified, ception. _

&.c. The time atwhich such pleas 212. Judgment in caseof balance 08am“

and special demurrers to the decla- executor.

ration must be filed. ‘ 213, same,

Sscrrox Samoa

214. Plea of failure of consideration. 222. How defense may be set up in suits «
215. Such failure may be shown in cer- against a party for acts done under
tain cases, when not pleaded. " ' a statute.
216. Certain pleas, replications, &,c. tobe 223. Replication in such case; evidence.
sworn to; effect if not sworn to. 224. If plaintifff in any case fail to take
217. Denial of assignment under oath. judgment when he might, the de218. Proof of names of parties in certain fendant may plead to the merits,
cases not necessary, unless denied &c.
specially, &,c. 225. After interlocutory judgment, the
219. Of payment at a particular place. court may set the same aside, and
220. Subsequent demand and failure to permit the party to plead, &.c.
‘pay may be shown. ' 226. Party may demur at any time be22l. In suits against officers, &c., de- fore trial. .
fendant may plead general isssue, 227.. Judgment on demurrer, without reand give matters of defense in evi- garding certain defects, &.c.
dence.

Sracr. 189. The clerk, within three weeks after the adjournment of the court, shall make out his docket for the succeeding
term, wherein he.shall docket all suits at law then pending in
such court, and also all causes whic_h may be commenced previous to the first day of the next term.

Sncr. 190. Such clerk shall set as many cases for each‘ day
as in his opinion will be -disposed of by the court, always docketing the suits continued from the preceding term, and actions
of covenant debt and assumpsit, immediately after the criminal
causes." '

SECT. 191. The plaintifff may file his declaration before or
after the issuing of the writ; but if the writ issues before the
filing of the declaration, the plaintifff shall file his declaration on
or before the calling of the cause, at the term to which the writ
IS returnable; or on failure thereof, the suit may for that cause
be dismissed.

Saar. 192. If it shall appear that the process was not~executed, and that the declaration was not filed ten days before
the return day of such process, the cause shall be continued
until {he next term of the court, unless both parties consent to
a ma . ‘

Sncr. 193. Whenever the writ shall have been served, and
the declaration filed ten days before the first day of the term to
Which the writ is returnable, such suit shall proceed to issue and
trial at such term, whether the writ issued before or after the
filing of the dcclaration.T

Sncr. 194. The pleadings may be filed‘ and issue joined, at
any time before the calling of the cause, without any rule
therefore: and when the cause is called, if no plea has been filed,

the defendant may ‘plead, and the plaintifff reply, and so on,
within such time during the term as the court shall deem reasonable, till the issues in law or of ‘fact shall be made up.‘

Sncr. 195. If either party shall fail to file his part of the
pleadings when required, the court may direct judgment to be
entered against him for such failure, unless for good cause
shown, the court give him further day in that term, or at or before the next term, to file such pleading, on the payment of the
costs occasioned by such postponement.T

Sncr. 196. If, from any cause, either party shall fail to file
his part of the pleadings, or to make up the issues in the time
herein required, or that may be prescribed by the court, the
court shall have the same power at each calling of the cause to
require the completion of the issues, and in default thereof, to
direct the proper judgment to be entered against the party failing, for such default. a ,

Sncr. 197. If on any calling of the cause, the plaintifff fail
to prosecute, and the defendant fail to appear, the court may
either enter a non-suit against the plaintifff, or continue the
caused;

SE01‘. 198. The clerk shall endorse on all pleas and pleadings, the time when they were filed, and note such filing in the
order book.

Sncr. 199. The plaintifff in replevin, and the defendant in

all actions, may plead as many several matters in law or of

fact, as he may deem necessary for his defense.
. Seer. 200. Pleas to the jurisdiction of the court, and pleas
tin abatement, and all dilatory pleas which do not involve the
merits of the action, shall not be received by any court, unless
the truth thereof shall be verified by oath or affirmation; and all
such pleas, and also special demurrers to the declaration, shall

, be filed on or before the day for which the cause is docketed,

at the first term at which it stands for trial, and shall not be received at any time afterwards. §

Sncr. 203. Whenever any action on such bond or instru'ment specified in the last preceding section shall be pending,

the defendant may, at any time before judgment rendered
therein, pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court for the plaintifff’s
use, the principal sum, and interest due by the condition of such
bond or instrument, together with the costs incurred in said action, and thereupon such action shall be discontinued; or the
defendant may bring into court such principal sum and interest,
and judgment shall be given against him for the costs only.

Sncr. 204. When there are mutual debts or demands between the plaintifff and defendant in any action, one demand
may be set off against the other, as provided in this section,
that is to say,

1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment, or upon a
contract, express or implied, whether such contract be written
or unwritten, sealed or without a seal; and if it be founded upon
a bond, or other contract having a penalty, the sum equitably
due by virtue of the condition only shall be set off; but it must
be a demand for real or personal property sold, or for money
paid, or for money had and received, or for services done, or it
must be for a sum that is liquidated, or one that can be ascertained by calculation.

2. It must be due to the defendant in his own right, either as
the ori inal creditor or payee, or as being the assignee or owner
thereo . T

3. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of
of the suit, and must then have belonged to the defendant.

4. The set-off shall be allowed in all actions founded on demands which could themselves be the subject of set-off, according to law, and no others.

5. If there be several plaintifffs, the demand set off must be
due from them all jointly; if there are several defendants, it
must be due to them all jointly, except when the person with
whom a contract is made has a dormant partner, and a suit is
brought on such contract, by or against the partners jointly,
any demand due to or from the person with whom the contract
was made, may be set off in like manner as if such dormant
partner had not been joined in the suit.1

6. If the contract on which the suit is brou ht has been assigned to the plaintifff, he may set off any emand existing A
against such laintiff, or any assignee of such contract, before :
notice of sucll assignment, if the demand be such as might have
been set off against such plaintifff, or any such assignee, while
the contract belonged to him. *

7. If the action is brought by one person in trust, or for the
use of another, the defendant may set off any demand against
the person for whose use or benefit the action is brought, in like
manner as if that person were the laintiH'.

8. But in the case of an action y the trustees of an insolvent, demands shall be allowed to be set off, only as specified in
the provisions of the Revised Statutes respecting insolvent
debtors.

9. In actions by executors and administrators, demands
against their testators and intestates, which belonged to the defendant at the time of their death, may be set off in the same
manner as if the action had been brought by the deceased.

10. In actions against executors and administrators, and
trustees, and others in their representative character, the defendant may set off demands which belonged to their testator or
intestate, or those whom they represent, in the same manner as
the person represented would have been entitled to set off the

_same in an action against himself.

11. In actions brought by or against executors, administrators, trustees, or others in their representative character, no demand shall be set off that is due to or from such executors,
administrators, or trustees, or others in their own right.

Sacr. 205. To entitle the defendant to a set-off, he must
plead, or give notice of such set-off.

Sncr. 206. Such notice must be given, together with the
plea of the general issue, in those actions in which such issue
may he pleaded; and in those actions in which it cannot be
pleaded, the defendant may plead payment, and give notice of
the set-off, with such plea; and the filing of any such notice
With the plea, shall be a sufiicient notification thereof to the adverse party.

SECT. 207. The statement containing any notice of set-off,
shall be as certain in substance as would be required in a declaration, and the court may allow amendments of such notice, as
in like cases of pleas.

Sncr. 208. When issue is joined on the plea of set-off, or
other proper plea with notice of the set-off, the plaintifff shall
be entitled to every ground of defense against such set-off, of
which he might have availed himself under the general issue, or
by any form of pleading in an action brought against him on
the demand thus alleged as a set-off.

Sncr. 209. When the sum of the matters of set-off alleged
exceed the amount of the plaintifff’s demand, the provisions of
law limiting personal actions, if applicable to the set-off, may be

replied, so as to prevent a recovery by the defendant of such

excess.
Sncr. ~210. If the set-off established is less than the" plaintiffi"’s debt or demand, he shall have judgment for the residue
only; if such set-off be equal to the plaintifff’s debt or demand,

the defendant shall have jud ment for his costs.
Sncr. 211. If there be ound a balance due from the plaintiff, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for the amount
of such balance; but no such judgment shall be rendered when
the contract or demand which is the subject of the action shall
have been assigned before the commencement of the suit, for any
balance due from any other person than the plaintifff in the actlon.
Snow. 212. When, upon any set off against an executor or
administrator, a balance shall be found due to the defendant, the
’ judgment therefore shall be in the same form, and have the same
effect, as if the suit had been originally commenced by the defendant, except as stated in the following section.
Saar. 213. If at the time of the trial of such action, the

executor or administrator shall have instituted proceedings to
settle the estate of the deceased as insolvent, judgment shall be
rendered for the defendant for such balance, but no execution
shall issue therefore, and the court shall order it to be certilied
by the clerk to the proper probate court, that it may be laid before such court and settled as other judgments of creditors
against the estate of the deceased. ‘

Sncr. 214. In any action founded upon any specialty, or
other contract, conveyances of real estate, and instruments negotiable by the law merchant excepted, the defendant, by special
plea, may allege the Want or failure of the consideration, or any
part thereof; and if any specialty, or other contract, excepting
as aforesaid, is alleged in any plea, replication, or other pleadings,
by any of the arties, the other. party may in like manner allege
the want or failure of the consideration, or any part thereof.*

8

Saar. 215. , Whenever in any action, any such specialty, or
other contract, shall be given in evidence without being specially
pleaded, the other party may, excepting as aforesaid, prove the
want or failure in whole or in part of the consideration thereof.

Smcr. 216. The plea of non est factum, non-assignment, or
any other plea, replication, or other pleading, denying, or requiring
proof of the execution or assignment of any bond, bill, release,
or other instrument in writing, which is the foundation of any
suit or defense, and which is specially set forth as such in the
declaration, plea, or other pleadings, shall not impose the necessity of such proof, unless verified by oath or aHirmation.*‘

_ Snow. 2217. When any such plea, or other pleading specified
in the preceding section, denies or requires proof of any assignment, the oath or affirmation shall be, that the party has reason

‘to believe, and does verily believe, that such assignment was not

made before the suit was commenced.

SE01‘. 218. Whenever any bill of exchange, note, obligation,
or other contract in writing, shall be declared upon, pleaded, or
replied in any action as payable to. the party declaring upon,
pleading, or replying the same, or to any other person, proof of
the names of the makers, assignors, obligors, assignees, payees,
or obligees of any such bill, note, obligation, or contract, shall
not be necessary, unless the same shall be put in issue by some
form of pleading verified by affidavit.

Sncr. 219. In any action or defense founded on. any bill of

exchange, note, obligation, or other contract for the payment of t

money, to be paid at a particular place, it shall not be necessary

to aver in the pleadings, nor to rove on the trial, a demand of

payment at such place ; but in al such cases, the opposite party
‘ rial his readiness to

under the proper issue may show on the t '

pay such debt or demand at the place specified in the bill, note,

obligation, or other contract.
Siicr. 220. When such read

pleaded, or is shown under the proper issue, the opposite party

may reply, and prove, or may show under such issue, a subsequent demand at the place of payment, and a failure to pay

prior to the commencement of the action. _
Saar. £221. In every action against any officer appointed

under the authority of the state, or elected by the people of the

state, or of any county, congressional, or other township, or of

_any district, or against any person appointed pursuant to the
' provisions of law, to execute the duties of any office, for or

concerning any act done by such officer or person by virtue of
his office or authority, and in every action against an

person, who, by the comm
’ ' 'd or assistance does any thing touching t
efendant may plead the general

such office or appointment, the d _
he special matter in

issue, and give the provisions of law and t

evidence under such plea.
0 Snow. 222. In every action brought against any pers
any act done by authority of any statute of this state, the defendant may plead not guilty, or may make avowry, cognizance, or justification of the act done, alleging therein that the
same was done by the authority of such statute, merely referring thereto with sullicient certainty to ascertain the same,
without reciting any matter contained in such statute.
n SECT. 223. To every such plea the plaintifff may reply: that

the defendant did the act complained of in his own wrong
without the authority of any statute of this state. Upon ihe
as specified in the preceding

trial. under the general issue, _
section, or of any issue joined as prescribed in this and the preceding section, the whole matter may be given in evidence by

both parties.

all Sncr. 224. When the plaintifff might have take an interlocu tory judgment, but shall have failed so to do, the defendant may

y file any plea to the merits of the action. _

’ Sncr. 29.5. After interlocutory judgment, and before_a Writ

lo- of inquiry is executed, the court may, in their discretion, set
ive the defendant leave

5' aside the interlocutory judgment, and _ _
e plaintifff the right to a

aim“ to file a plea to the merits, saving to t

 trial or continuance of the cause. ,

.&,c. _SEcr. 226. At any stage of the pleadings, or after issu_e

’y‘1°' joined and before trial, either party -may withdraw a t

3 previous pleadings, and file a general demurrer to the T191
previous pleading of his adversary, and such demurre
joined. vi

9,, Sncr. 227. When demurrer is join

Will!‘ court shall proceed and give judgment

ed in any action,‘ the

without regarding any

defect or imperfection in the writ, return, declaration, or other
pleading, so as sufiicient matter shall appear in the pleadings to
enable the court to give judgment according to the very right

of the case, unless such defect or imperfection be specially expressed in the demurrer.*

 

ARTICLE IX.

Of the amendment of the pleadings and proceedings before and

after judgment, and of continuances on account of amendments of the pleadings.

SECTION Szcnon
228. Amendments may be made by leave 236. Judgment after verdict, default, etc.
of the court at any time before not to be stayed nor reversed, etc.
the trial. ‘ on account of defects, etc.
229. Amendments, when filed. 237. Defects, etc., amended in the court
230. Amendments in matter of form, trial ' in which the record or judgment is
not delayed. brought by appeal or error.
231. Amendments of declaration, &,c. in 238. Returns by court, etc., to another
substance, adverse party entitled court, aruendable.
to a continuance. 239. Defects in award of venire, etc.
232. What amendments shall entitle ad- where amendable.
verse partyto a continuance. 240. Variances between the record and
933- No special demurrer after continu- instruments, etc., adduced on the
ance. trial, amendable.
234. Plea in abatement to amended decla- 241. N o amendment without leave of the
ration. court. etc.
235. Capias, etc., not amendable in the 242. Suits and proceedings to which this
return day thereof. article shall extend. '

Sncr. 228. The court in which any action may be pending
{nay give leave to amend any process, pleading, or proceeding ‘
In such action, either in form or substance, for the further-,
ance of justice, at the costs of the party amending, at any1
time before commencing the trial.

S1-:c'r. 229. Every amendment to the declaration or otherpleadings shall be filed immediately, unless the court, for good ‘
cause shown, give further day.

_SEc'r. 230. If the amendment be in matter of form, the]
trial shall not be thereby delayed. f

SE01‘. 231. If the plaintifff amend his declaration‘ in matter
'fof substance; or if either party amend his pleadings in matter
of substance, after issue is joined and the cause is called for
_ trial, but before entering upon the trial thereof, the other party
. may plead thereto immediately, whereupon the cause shall proceed to issue and trial as if no amendment had been made; or
if the adverse party demand it, he shall be entitled to a continuance of the cause until the next term, at the costs of the
party making such amendment."

SECT. 232. No other amendments except such as are specified in the preceding section, shall entitle either party toa
continuance to the next term of the court. ‘

SECT. 23.3. If either party enforce a continuance of the
cause to another term, on account of an amendment, he shall
not, after obtaining such continuance, e allowed to file any
special demurrer to such amended pleading.

Sncr. 234. When any declaration or process is amended
in matter of substance by the plaintifff, after the time has
elapsed within which a plea in abatement could have been properly filed, the defendant may plead in abatement thereto, within such time as the court shall rule him to plead; but such plea
shall not be received unless such matter in abatement is‘pleadable by reason of such amendment.

Sncr. 235. Process by which any action shall have been
commenced, and on which the defendant shall have been
arrested, shall not be amended in the return day thereof.

Sncr. 236. When a verdict shall have been rendered in any
case, the judgment shall not he stayed thereon, nor shall ‘the
judgment on such verdict, or any judgment upon confession,
default, nihil dicit,‘ or non sum informatus be reversed, impaired,
or in any way affected by reason of the following imperfections, omissions, matters or things, or any of them, in the process, pleadings, proceedings, or record, namely:

1. For want of any writ, original or judicial; nor _

. 2. For any default or defect in process; or for misconceivmg any process or awarding the same to a wrong officer; 01‘
for the want of any suggestion for awarding process; or for any
insufficient suggestion; nor ,

3. For any imperfect or insuliicient return of any sheriff 0”
other officer; or that the name of such officer is not set to any
return actually made by him; nor ,

4. For any variance between the original writ, bills Plalm’
and declaration, or between either of them; nor,

5. For any mispleading, miscontinuance, or discontinuance:
insufiicient pleading, jeofail, lack of color, or misjoining of issue;
nor,

6. For the want of any warrant of attorney by either party,
except in cases of judgment of confession, where such warrant
is expressly required by law; nor, '

7. For any party under twenty-one years of age, having appeared by attorney, if the verdict or judgment be for him; nor,

8. For the want of any allegation or averment on account
of which omission a special demurrer could have been maintained; nor,

9. For omitting any allegation or averment of any matter,

without proving which the jury ought not to have given such
verdict; nor,
_ 10. For any mistake in the name of any person or party, or
in any sum of money, or in the description of any property, or
in reciting or stating any day, month, or year, when the correct
name, time, sum, or description, shall have been once rightly alleged in any of the pleadings or proceedings; nor,

1]. For a mistake in the name of any juror or officer; nor,

12. For the want of a right venue, if the cause was tried by
a jury of the right county; nor,

13. For any informality in entering a judgment, or making
up the record thereof, or in any continuance, or other entry
upon such record; nor, V

14. For any other default or negligence of any clerk or oilicer of the court, or of the parties, or their attorneys, by which
neither party shall have been prejudiced.

SECT. 237. ’l‘he omissions, imperfections, defects, and variances, in the preceding section enumerated, and all others of
the like nature, not being against the right and justice of the
matter of the suit, and not altering the issue between the parties, or the trial, shall be supplied and amended by the court
where the judgment is given, or by the court into which such
Judgment shall be removed by appeal or writ of error.

_Si:cr. 238. All returns made by any court, or subordinate
tribunal to any court, may be amended in matter of form by
the court to which such return shall be made, as well before as
after judgment.

S_Ecr. 239. Any imperfection or defect in the award of any
venire, or any omission to award such venire on the record,
ma)‘; be amended or supplied by the court in which such recor is.

Saar. 240. The court may, in its discretion, at any time‘
during the trial, permit either party to amend any variance be- '
tween any record, document, or written instrument adduced on ]
such trial and the record, declaration, plea, or other pleading in 5
the cause then pending before the court, and also in all other,
matters or testimony which the court shall adjudge not material
to the just merits of the case, and by which the opposite party

cannot be prejudiced in the conduct of his action, prosecution, or

defense; and either party aggrieved by the decision" of the
court therein, may except to such decision as in other cases.‘

Sncr. 241. No process, pleading, or record shall be amended
or impaired by the clerk or other officer of any court, or any
other person, without the order of such court, or of some other
court of competent authority.

Sscr. 242. The provisions of this article shall extend to all
actions in courts of law, and to all suits for the recovery of any
debt due to the state of Indiana; and also to all actions for penalties and forfeitures, to all Writs of mandamus and prohibition, to
all inforrnations in the nature of a quo Warranto, to writs of
scire facias, and to the proceedings therein, and to proceedings
in partition, and the assignment of dower.

Nora. If land he sold on execution which, as to the amount varies from the judgment, the purchaser or person claimin under him, may have the execution amended
by thejud ent. Iloe v. Rm: 4 Black . 263.

A mista e in the amount of an execution is amendable, at any time, by the .il1d8'
ment. .M"Call v. Trevor, 4 Blackf. 496.

_ Joel IVzlliams filed a prcecipe in his right name for a writ, the clerk issuai the w'rit
in the name of Joel Wmzamson, and the plaintifff declared in his right name. Held.

tvlgiiztggstgg plaintifff's name, might be amended by the pnecipe. BechtIbfghe making of such an amendment does not entitle the defendant to a continuance.
I ‘ .

A B T I C L E I .
0f witnesses, depositions, and evidence.

Sscrion SECTION .
wrrnsssas. 256. False swearing or adirming in any
243. Subpcenas. form, perjury.
244. How attested. 257. Belief in a Supreme Being.
245. By whom served. 258. Witness shall not be asked 83 W
246. Cases in which witnesses‘ fees need such beliefl
not be tendered. 259. Witness may be examined as to N8
247. Cases in which fees must be ten- knowledge of obligations of oaths
dered. &,c

248.

Costs of more than three witnesses
to the same fact, by whom paid.

250. General moral character of witness

249. Subpaana may be served by copy. 261.
250. Proceedings for contempt where wit- tent witness.
ness has been summoned by copy. 262. When continuance applied for on
251. Cases in which negroes, mulattoes. account of absent witnesia 9'11"
and Indians are incompetent wit- stance of his testimony mu“ 5°
1195593 shown.
252. Mode of administering oaths.
253. Afiirmation of a witness. ”“’°5""‘°"'S'

255

. Ceremony of swearing witness.

. Persons believing in other than the
Christian religion, how sworn.

263. Depositions may be 
. Before what officers d8P°3‘“°”5 my
be taken.

Samoa

265. Causes of taking depositions.

266. Cases in which dedimus not necessary.

267. Notice to the adverse party.

268. What the notice must contain.

269. To whom given.

270. Noticepin case of several parties.

27!. Time of giving notice previous to
taking deposition.

272. Summons for witnesses.

273. Witnesses may be compelled to attend.

274. Some in case of deposition taken
here, to be read in another state.

275. How witness sworn and examined.

276. How deposition shall be written and
subscribed.

277. Certificate of officer.

278. Envelope and direction of depositions. _

279. Deposition cannot be read unless
cause for taking it still continues.

280. Depositions taken in another state
or territory.

281. Dedimus in such case.

282. Notice. Envelope. Direction.

283. How certified when taken out of the
state.

234. Depositions, how taken in a foreign
country. .

285. How certified and returned.

286. Depositions, how long filed before
trial.

287. Publication.

288. Objections to competency of deponent and to questions, &c., when
to be made.

289. What objections must be made before the trial.

290. And after commencement of triaL

291. In case of non-suit, &.c., depositions
may be used in second trial.

or rsnrsruarms rssrmoxr.
292. Aflidavit and notice.

SECTION‘

293. How deposition shall be taken and
certified.

294. When and where filed.

295. In what case such deposition may
be used; its effect in evidence, &.c.
Right of exception.

296. Aflidavit to take such deposition
out of the state.

297. How certified, &.c.

OF DOCUMENTARY AND CYPBER WRITTEN
EVIDENCE.

298. Printed statutes of this state and
certain territories, &.c.

299. Of other states, &.c.

300. Copies of printed statutes of states,
«Sac. in state library, &c.

301. Certified judgments of justices of
the peace of other states, &c.

302. Copies of such judgments, &c. certified by a successor.

303. Certilied judgments, &.c. of a justice
of the peace of this state.

304. Certificates, &c. of notaries public.

305. Certificate by secretary of state of
time when laws are filed in any
county.

306. Copies of deeds, records, bonds, doc.
in a public office, how attested, &c.,
and effect in evidence.

307. Law of another state certified by the

secretary of such state.

Records, &.c. of courts of the several

states, how attested, &c.

Copy of notice and proof of publi-'

cation, how certified and filed.

310. Effect of such notice and proof, or
copy thereof in evidence.

311. Aflidavit from another state, how
certified.

312. Common law of any state, how
shown. 313. Laws of a foreign country, how
shown.

§

T85

S_r:cr. 243. Every clerk of a court of record may issue
writs of subpoena for witnesses, on the application of any
party, to any county in this state, in all cases pending before
any such court, in which the declaration, p1aint,or other cause
of action has been filed, and process served, the length of time
.before the term of the court, to entitle the plaintifff to demand a

trial or hearing at such term. *

Sacr. 244. Such subpoena need not besealed with the seal
of the court from which it issues, but shall be attested and

same time, residing in the same county.

Sncr. 245. Such subpoena may be served by the officer to
whom the same is directed,_or by any other person; but before
an attachment against a witness shall issue for an alleged contempt in not obeying a subpoena, served by any other person
than the officer to whom the same is directed, or his deputy
lawfully appointed, the service thereof as required by law must
be veriliedlby affidavit.

Sncr. 246. Where a witness is a resident of the county in
which the court is held to which he has been subpmnaed, an attachment may issue against him for failing to attend as such
witness, although his fees may not have been tendered to him.

Sncr. 247. Where a witness who is not a resident of the
county in which the court is held to which he has been subpoenaed, he may be attached for failing to attend as a witness,
unless he demanded his fees at the time he was subpoenaed, and
such fees were not then paid to him; and no attachment shall
issue in such case, until it is shown to the court by aliidavit, or
the ol’dcer’s return, that such witness is justly liable to such attachment.

Snow. 5248. If either party shall cause more than three wit' nesses to be subpoenaed to prove the same identical ‘fact, such

party shall pay the whole costs occasioned by such additional

number of witnesses.

Sncr. 249. A subpoena may be served by leaving a copy of
the same at the usual place of residence of the witness, unless
he shall have left the county, and his return before the term of
the court is uncertain.

SEC'I‘- 250. Where a witness is subpoenaed by copy as alore‘
said, and is attached for contempt in failing to obey such subpazna, the witness shall be purged of such alleged contempt by
stating under oath that such copy did not come to his hands or
knowledge.

1: Snow. 25]. No negro, mulatto or Indian, shall be a witness,
except In pleas of the state against negroes, mulattoes, or Indians, and in civil causes where negroes, mulattoes, or Indians
alone are parties: every person other than a negro having
one-fourth part of negro blood or more, or any one of whose
grandfathers or grandmothers shall have been a negro, shall be
deerried an incompetent witness, within the provisions of this
artic e.

ll- Sac-r. 252. The usual mode of administering oaths now prim‘

'5; tised in this state, with the ceremony of holding up the hands.

shall be observed in all cases in which an oath is to be admm1Stered, except as hereinafter provided.

of Snow. 253. Every person who has conscientious scruples
against taking any oath, shall be permitted, instead of swearlllgv

solemnly and sincerely to affirm, under the pains and penalties
of perjury.

Sncr. 254. Whenever the court shall be satisfied that any
person offered as a witness has any peculiar ceremony of swearing, other than by holding up the hand, the court may adopt
such mode of swearing such person.

SECT. 255. Every person believing in any other than the
Christian religion shall be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of . his religion, if there be any such ceremonies.

Sr:c'r. 256. Any person who shall take an oath or afIirmation in any of the modes prescribed or allowed by law, and
shall therein willfully and corruptly swear or affirm falsely, shall
be liable to all the pains and penalties of perjury.

SECT. 257. N 0 want of belief in the existence of a Supreme
Being who will punish false swearing, shall be considered necessary in any court, or before’ any justice of _the peace, to the
competency of any witness; nor shall his belief or disbelief of
such, or any other matters of religious faith, be held to affect his
competency; but the same shall only go to the credibility of
the Witness, and for that purpose may be given in evidence to
enable the jury or other trier or triers of the facts to judge of
such credibility.

Sizer. 258. No witness shall be required to answer any
question touching such belief or disbelief, but he may state the
same or not, at his option. ’

_ Sac-r. 259. Nothing contained in the last two preceding sections shall be construed to prevent the examination of any one
offered as a witness, who is a person apparently of a weak intellect, or who is an infant, for the purpose of ascertaining his
or her mental or moral capacity, or knowledge of the civil and
moral obligations of an oath or aHirmation."

SECT. 260. In all questions affecting the credibility of a witness, his general moral character may be given in evidence. SECT. 261. Ncrperson, duly convicted by a court of competent jurisdiction, and sentenced according to law upon such
conviction, of a crime in this or any other state, declared by
the law of this state to be infamous, shall be admitted as a compe_tent witness on the trial of any cause or matter, civil or criminal, pending in any court of justice.

SECT. 262. In all applications for the continuance of a cause
On account of the absence of a material witness, the party
making such application must state in the affidavit presented to
the court, in addition to the other necessary matters, the substance or principal facts expected to be proved by such witness,
in order that the court may judge of such materiality.

Of depositions.

Smcr. 263. Depositions of witnesses may be taken in the
manner and according to the regulations provided by law, to
be used and read in any suit or matter pending in any court.

Snow. 5264. Any justice of the peace, notary public, master
in chancery, mayor or recorder of a city, or the clerk of a
court of record, may take depositions, to be used in any cause or
matter pending at the time such deposition was taken, he not
being of kin to the parties, nor interested in such cause, nor being
nor having been counsel or attorney in such cause or matter.

Sncr. 265. Depositions may be taken by either party for
any of the following causes:

1. When the deponent is so aged, infirm, or sick as not to
be able to attend the court or other place of trial;

2. When the deponent resides out of or is absent from the
state;

3. When the deponent is about to go out of the state before
the session of the court where the de osition is to be used, and
his return in season to attend the trialis doubtful;

4. When the claim or defense of the party, or a material
part thereof, depends on a single witness;

5. When the deponent is a judge of the supreme court, secretary or treasurer of state, or auditor of public accounts, or
clerk of the supreme court, or an attorney at law, in cases
Where the trial 18 to be held in a county in which any such
officer or attorney does not reside;

6. When the deponent is president judge of a circuit court
and the county in which such trial is to be held is not within
his judicial circuit; . _

7. When the deponent is an associate judge of any circuit
court, probate judge, clerk, or sheriff, and such trial is not to
be held in the county in which such officer resides.

Sncr. 266. When a deposition is to be taken by any 051061‘
in this state authorized to take depositions, no commission, or
dedimus potestatem, or order of court shall be necessary to the
taking of such deposition.

Sncr. 267. In such case the party wishing to take such deposition, shall give notice to the adverse party to be present at
the taking thereof.

Sncr. 268. Such notice shall specify ;

lci The cause or matter in which such deposition is to be
use ;

2. The court or tribunal before which such trial is to be had;

3. The time and place of taking such deposition.

S1301‘. 269. Such notice may be given to the adverse party:
his agent or attorney, and may be served by any sheriff or l1lS
deputy, of the proper county, or may be served by any OW?’
person and proved by his affidavit; if neither the party nor his
agent or attorney, resides in this state, the notice may be filed

in the clerk’s office, or published three weeks successively in a
a public newspaper printed in the county in which such suit is
pendin .

Seer? 270. When there are several plaintifffs or defendants,
notice of taking such deposition may be given to one or more
of them, and such notification shall be deemed sufiicient.

Seer. 271. N 0 such notice shall be valid unless the adverse
party be allowed between the service of the notice and the
taking of the deposition, a reasonable time for him to travel
from his usual place of abode to the place of taking such deposition, by the ordinary route of travel, exclusive of the day on
which such notice was served, the day for taking such deposition, and the intervening Sundays. "‘ _

SECT. 272. The officer taking the deposition, if requested,
shall issue a summons for the witness, if he reside in the county
where his deposition is to be taken, to appear at the time and
place appointed for taking such deposition.

Sncr. 273. Any such witness shall be compelled to attend
and give his deposition, in like manner, and under the same;
penalties, as he may be summoned and compelled to attend and
testify before a justice of the peace.

SECT. 274. The provisions of the last two preceding sec-:
tions shall extend to all officers and commissioners authorized to ‘
take depositions in this state, to be read in the courts of other 1
states or countries. _

Seer. 275. The deponent shall be first sworn or affirmed,
by the officer taking his deposition, to testify the truth, the=
whole truth and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause or
matter for which the deposition is to be taken, and he shall then
be examined by the party producing him, and then by the adverse party, and by the officer or parties afterwards, if they see
cause.

Sscr. 276. The deposition shall be written down by the of- 1
ficer, or the deponent, or by some disinterested person, in the !
presence and under the direction of such officer, and after the .
same has been carefully read to or by the deponent, it shall
then be subscribed by him.

Sncr. 277. The officer shall then make out a certificate and I
Ignnex the same to the deposition, stating therein the following ‘
acts: - 1. That the deponent was sworn according to law;

2. By whom the deposition was written; and if it was Written by the deponent, or some disinterested person, he must certify that it was Written in the presence and under the direction
of such officerg

3. Whether or not the adverse party attended;
4. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the

hours between which the same was taken;
And such officer shall sign and attest such certificate, and

seal the same: if he have a seal of office, with such seal; and if
a justice of the peace, with his seal or an ink scrawl, as in the

the case of other certificates. .

Saar. 278. The oiiicer taking such deposition shall seal up
the same in a sufiicient paper envelope, and shall direct the
same to the clerk of the court in which such suit or matter is
pending, endorsing on such envelope the names of the parties
thereto, and of the Witnesses whose depositions are enclosed.

Srzcr. 279. When a deposition shall be taken in the case of

-an aged, sick, or infirm witness, or because the witness was

about to go out of the state before the session of the court, and
his return in time for the trial was doubtful, or in the case of a
single witness, on whose testimony the claim or defense, or a
material art thereof, of any party depends, such deposition
shall not e used unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
court that the cause for taking it still exists, or that the witness
is insane, absent from the state, or dead.

Sncr. 280. Where the depositions of witnesses are to be
taken in another state or territory, the party wishing to take
any -such deposition shall procure a dedimus potestatein, to be
issued by the clerk of the court in which such cause or matter
is pending, under the seal of such court, directed to some justice
of the peace, mayor, or recorder of a city, or notary public, or
clerk of a court of record, authorizing him to take depositions,
to be read on the trial of such cause. "

Sncr. 281. The clerk of the court in which any matter OT
cause is pending, shall issue a dedimus potestatem at the request
of any of the parties; nor shall any affidavit or order of the
court be necessary to authorize the issuing of such dedimus.

SECT. 282. Such depositions shall be ‘taken after like notice
to the adverse party, as in the case of depositions taken in this
State, and the dedimus shall be returned’ with such depositions:
the Whole to be enclosed by the person taking the same in a su ficient paper envelope, and sealed up and endorsed, as require
in the case of depositions taken in this state, and directed to the
clerk of the court in which such cause or matter is pendingSECT. 283. If the dedimus contain the name of the'oHicer
before whom any such deposition was to be taken, his attesta' tion, otiicially certifying the same, shall be a sufficient authentication; but if such dedimus do not specify the name of the

officer, and he have no official seal, his certificate shall be authen- .
ticated by the certificate and seal of the clerk or prothonotary '

of ‘any court of record of the county in which such officer exercises the duties of his office. "

Sncr. 284. When de ositions are to be taken in a foreign;
country, they shall be ta en pursuant to an order of the court ,
under a commission, with such reasonable notice of the time

and place of taking the same as such court shall require.

. SECT. 285. Any depositions taken according to the provi~‘
\sions of the last preceding section, shall be certified and return- ‘

ed to the court granting such commission, by the commissioner
or commissioners taking the same, in such manner as the court
_shall direct, sealed up in a sufficient envelope, and endorsed as
In the case of other depositions.

Sncr. 286. Every deposition taken in accordance with the
provisions of this article, and intended to be read in evidence,
must be filed in the proper court, at least one day before the
time at which such cause in which such deposition is to be used
stands on the docket for trial; or if filed afterwards and claimed
to be used on the trial, the adverse party shall be entitled to a
continuance, at the costs of the party filing such de osition.

SECT. 287. Depositions may be published by t e order of
the court, at any time after the filing thereof, on the motion of
either party.T

Sncr. 288. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or
to the propriety of any questions proposed to him, or answers
given by him, may be made at the time of taking his deposition,
In the same manner as if he were a Witness before the court on
the trial of such cause; and if so made, may, at the request of
either part , be entered in such deposition; or any such objectrons may e made to the deposition when published in court,
whether made at the taking of the deposition or not.1:

such depositions have been duly filed in the court where the .
previous cause was pending, and have remained on file from‘
the time such suit was discontinued, or the plaintifff non-suited,
until the time at which it is proposed to use them in such other
suit.

Of perpetuating testimony.

SECT. 292. Whenever any person shall make affidavit before
any circuit court, or judge thereof, or master in chancery, that i
such person expects to be made a party in any suit thereafter
to be commenced, and that the testimony of a Witness to be
named in such affidavit is material and necessary to the prosecution or defense of such suit, the court or officer before whom
such affidavit is made, shall order reasonable notice to be given
to the party expected to be adverse to such applicant, or to his
attorney, that on the day and at the place in such notice to be
expressed, such Witness will be examined de bene esse before
sugh judge or master in chancery as shall be specified in said
or er.

Sizer. 293. Upon proof that such notice has been given
either by personal service or advertisement, at least three weeks
successively in some public newspaper printed and published in
the proper county, or one most convenient thereto, (when the
person to be notified is not an inhabitant of this state,) made to
the officer authorized to take such testimony, such oliicer on the
day appointed in such order, or on such other day as such officer
shall then appoint, shall proceed to take the testimony of such
witness, and shall insert in the deposition any answer or declaration of such witness which may be required by either party;
and such deposition being carefully read to andsubscribed by
said witness, the officer certifying the same shall certify it to
have been taken pursuant to this article.

Seer. 294. Every affidavit and order, and every deposition
so taken and certified, shall, Within thirty days after such deposition is taken, be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court of the county where the subject matter of such expected
suit may be situate.

Sacr. 295. Upon proof of the death, insanity, or absence
from the state of such witness, or his or her inability by reason
of age or infirmity to attend, such deposition or a certified copy
thereof by the clerk of the court where the same is filed, shall
be admitted as evidence in any court in this state, in any cause
between the parties named in such affidavit, or in any cause between persons claiming under either of said parties, and shall
have like effect as if the said Witness had been personally present, and given oral testimony therein, saving the right of ex-*
ception in all cases on account of the incompetency of such;

Witness, or of any part of the testimony contained in such de- l
position.

Sncr. 296. When any person shall make atiidavit as aforesaid, that he expects to be a party to a suit, and that the testimony of a witnesstnot resident within this state is material and
necessary to the prosecution or defense thereof, and shall file
the same with any clerk of the circuit court of this state, the
said clerk shall make out a commission or authority directed to
any officer authorized by law to take depositions in the state or
territory where such witness resides, upon reasonable notice as
aforesaid, and pursuant to the directions of the preceding sections of this division of this article.

Sncr. 297. Such deposition, so taken and certified as aforesaid, and authenticated by the certificate of the clerk and the
seal of the court of the county or district in which the officer
taking such deposition resides, to be returned with the commission aforesaid, and proof by affidavit of the service of notice of
taking the same to the court issuing such commission, shall be
of like force and effect as in the case of depositions taken in
this state as aforesaid.

0f documentary and other written evidence.

Seer. 298. The printed statute books of this state, and of
the late territory Northwest of the River Ohio, and the territories of Indiana and Illinois, purporting to be printed under the
authority of said state or territories, shall be evidence in all
courts and places of the private acts therein contained.”

Srzcr. 299. The printed statute books of the several states
and territories of the United States, purporting to be printed
under the authority of those states and territories, shall be prima
facie evidence in all courts or places, of the legislative acts,
public or private, of those states or territories respectively.T

Sncr. 300. Copies taken by the secretary of state of any
statute contained in any of the printed statute books of the
several states and territories of the United States, which have
been or may be hereafter transmitted under the authority .of
any such state or territory to this state, and which shall be de
posited in the office of the secretar of state of this state, or
in the state library, shall be admissib e in anv court or place, if
said copies have attached thereto the certificate of such secretary, under the seal of the state, certifying such copy to be
complete and correct, that the statute book from which suqh
copy IS taken, is deposited in the office of said secretary: 0}’ "1
such state library, and is by him believed to have been received

under the authority of the state or territory purporting to have
enacted the same.

Snow. 30!. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any
justice or justices of the peace of any state or territory of the
United States, certified by the justice or justices under his or
their hands and seals, before whom such proceedings were had
or judgments rendered, ‘that the same are true and complete
copies of such proceedings or judgments, with the certificate of
the clerk or prothonotary of any court of record of the county
or district Where said justice or justices shall hold his or their
office or offices, certifying under the seal of said court that said
justice or justices was or were at the time when such proceedings were bad or judgment rendered, and when such copy was
taken, duly commissioned and qualified to act as such, shall be
admissible as evidence in any of the courts of this state.

SECT. 302. Where the proceedings or judgments of any
justice or justices of the peace, as in the preceding section mentioned, shall be legally deposited in the hands of the successor
or successors of the officer or officers before whom such proceedings or judgments were had, copies thereof, certified by
the justice or justices having such legal custody of the same
in the manner provided in the foregoing section, with the certificate of the proper clerk or prothonotary as aforesaid, shall be
received as evidence in the same manner as if such roceedings
or judgments had been certified by the officer or o cers before
whom they were originally had.

Sscr. ‘303. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of «
any justice of the peace of this state, certified under his hand:
and seal, or under the hand and seal of the justice who may:
have the legal custody thereof, as true and complete copies of
such proceedings or judgments, shall be received as evidence in
the several courts of this state. *

Sncr. 304. Certificates or instruments, either printed or!
Written, purporting to be the ofiicial act of a notary public of 1
this state, or of any other state or territory of the United
States, and purporting to be under the seal and signature of
such notary public, shall be received as prima facie evidence

of the ofiicial character of such instruments and of the truth of
the facts therein set forth. ‘

Sscr. 305. The certificate of the secretary of state, under
the seal of state, stating the time when any act or acts of
the general assembly were deposited in his office, or deposited
in the office of the clerk of any circuit court in this state,as
shall appear from the certilicate or receipt of any such clerk,
shall be admissible in all the courts of this state as evidence of
the facts stated in such secretary’s certificate.

SECT. 306. Exemplilications or copies of records of deeds
or other instruments, or of olhce books or parts thereof, and
official bonds which are or may be kept in any public office in
this state not appertaining to any court, shall be proved or admitted as legal evidence in any court or office in this state, by
the attestation of the keeper of the said records, or books, or
oliicial bonds, that the same is a true and complete copy of the
record, bond, instrument, or book, or part thereof in his custody,
and the seal of office of said keeper thereto annexed, if there be
a seal, and if there be no ofiicial seal, then such keeper may affix
his ink scrawl to the attestation, to which last mentioned attestation shall be attached the certificate of the clerk, and the seal
of the circuit court of the proper county Where such keeper

resides, that said attestation is made by the proper of{icer.*

I

Sncr. 309. When notice is, in any suit, proceeding; 9" Salef
under execution, or other matter, required by the provisions o
law, to be given by publication in any newspapers an affldavlt
of the printer, or any person in his employ, as a clerk or Pfltzhtiera
of a competent age, annexed to a copy of such notice _t tan
from the paper in which it was published, may be filed in t is
clerk’s office by the person whose duty it was t0 031153 Sue
publication to be made; such affidavit specifying the C0l1I1tYa
the times when, and the paper in which, such notice was published. ' ~ .

Sacr. .310. The original affidavit and copy_of such notices
filed pursuant to the provisions of the last section, and copies
thereof, duly certified by the officer in whose custody the Si1_m6
may be, shall be presumptive evidence in all cases and before
every court, of v the facts contained in. such affidavit.

Siccr. 311. When_ any affidavit is taken in another state
and certihed by the officer or justice of the peace taking the
same, under his hand and seal of ofnce, if he have any Such
seal, and attested by the clerk of the circuit or district court
or court of common pleas of the county where such oiiicellg
exercises the duties of his oiiice, under the hand of such clerh
an d the seal of his court, such clerk also certifying that stilt;
officer or justice of the peace is, by the laws_of said State» dag
empowered to administer oaths and affirmations, _and take davits, every such affidavit shall be deemed sufiiciently authen-f
ticated, and may be received and used in any of y the courts 0

this state. A . _ th
SECT. 31,52. The unwritten or common law of any 0 31'

of the United States, or of the territories thereof, may 13‘;
proved as facts by parol evidence, and the books of T9P?(i'ts 38
cases adiudged in their courts may also be admitted in evl 611

of such aw. _ 1 f
Sscr. 313. The existence and tenor or effect of the _aws 0

any foreign country may be proved as facts by parol evidence,
but if it shall appear that the law in question is contained In 0
written statute or code, the court may, in their discretion‘; reject any evidence of such law which is not accompanied V a

copy thereof.

ARTICLE xr.

Of the trial and its incidents.

Samoa

314. When cause may be tried.

‘ 315. Judgment on demurrer, &.c., court
may calculate debt or damages, or
award inquiry, &.c.

316. Court may try cause by agreement
of parties.

317. Peremptory challenges.

318. Interpreters.

319. When plaintifff may suffera non-suit.

320. If both parties absent, court ma
non-suit or continue. *

321. Cause reversed in supreme court
and sent back, when tried.

322. General‘ verdict on several counts,
judgment not arrested, &.c., if any
count good. Faulty count may be
disregarded.

323. If verdictindetinue omit price, court
may award a writ of inquiry. Ver- diet for part of several articles in
such case.

Section

324. But two new trials granted.

325. If trial pending at the end of the
term, court may be continued until
the cause is tried.

326. Instructions of judge shall be in
writing if required. '

327. Exceptions shall be taken when decision made.

328. Shall bein writing, but time shall
be allowed to settle the form, &.c.

329. If fairly stated, bill shall be signed.

330. Mandamus to compel signing of exceptions. i

331. Shall be filed and annexed to the
record. ,

332. Court shall determine what papers
the jury shall take, &c. ’

Sacr. 314. When the declaration has been filed and‘ process
served ten days before the first day of the term of the court,
the cause shall stand for trial at such term. 3

Snow. 315.

In all cases of T judgment on demurrer, bv nihil

dicit, non sum informatus, or default, when the matter alleged
as the foundation of the suit or charge .depends upon calculatron, or can bereduced to a certainty , by calculation, the court
{nay give judgment for the debt or damages to which the party

18 entitled; or either
assessment of such de
Sncr. 316.

arty may have a Writ of inquiry for the
t or damages!‘
When the parties In any suit shall by agreement

submit any matter to the determination of .the court, such court
may hear and determine the same, and give judgment therein

without the intervention of a jury.T

‘ Sncr. 317‘.

In all actions tried in any court of record, each

party shall have the right of peremptory challenge to three‘
_]urors.I

before the verdict of the jury s

Sscr. 318. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret truly
whenever necessary.

SECT. 319. The plaintifff ma suffer a non-suit at any time

lliall have been received by the
court." .

Sncr. 320. If on the calling of the cause for trial, the plaintiff fail to prosecute, and the defendant fail to appear, the
court may enter a non-suit against the plaintifff or continue the
cause.

SE01‘. 321. Whenever any cause is reversed in the supreme
court, in whole or in‘ part, on appeal‘ or writ of error, and sent
back for such further proceedings as may require a trial by jury,
if the decision and opinion of the supreme court in such cause
shall have been deposited in the office of the clerk of the inferior
court sixty days or more before the first day of any term of
such court, such cause shall stand for trial at such term; otherwise it shall be continued until the next term of the ‘court.

Sscr. 322. When a general verdict .is given on the trial of
any civil action for the plaintifff, in‘ which some of the counts in
the declaration are bad, and any one of them is good, judgment
on the verdict for that reason shall not be delayed or arrested,
nor subject to reversal on appeal or writ of error; and on the
trial of any such cause, the court, at the request of the defendant, may instruct the jury to disregard any such faulty count/F

Sncr. 323. If the verdict in detxnue omit the price or value,
the court may at any time award a writ of inquiry to ascertain
the same; and if on an issue concerning several things in one
count in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them, the verdict shall be good, but the plaintifff shall be barred of his title to
the things omitted.1

Sncr. 394. Not more than two new trials shall be granted
to the same party in the same cause ; and the court in granting
new trials may allow the same on the payment of costs, or _on
the costs abiding the “event of the suit, as the justice and equity
of the case may require, taking into consideration the causes
which may make such new trial necessary§

Sncr. 325. If at the expiration of the time fixed by law for
the continuance of ' the term of any court, the trial of a cause
shall be progressing, said court may continue its sitting beyond
such time, and require the attendance of the jury and witnesses,
and do, transact, and enforce all other matters which shall be
necessary for the determination of such cause; and in such
case, the term of said court shall not be deemed to be ended,
until the cause shall have been fully disposed of by said court.

Seer. 326. Whenever, on the trial of any cause, either
party shall object to the court, or any judge thereof, giving any
charge or instruction to the jury, or any modification or explanation of any charge or instruction, unless the same be in
writing, such court or judge shall reduce the matter objected
to to writing before iving the same to the jury.

Seer. 327. In al cases where exceptions are allowed by
law during the pendency of any cause or matter, ‘the party
complaining of any decision shall take such exception at the
time the decision complained of is made. .

SEc'r. 328. Such exception shall be in Writi , but the court
shall allow such time as may be deemed reasonab e to settle and
reduce the same to form.

Sscr. 329. If the truth of the matter be fairly stated in
such exception, it shall be the duty of the person or persons
composing the court, or the major part of those who were present when the decision excepted to was made, to sign and seal
such bill of exceptions.

' Sscr. 330. If any court refuse to sign such bill of exceptions,-they maybe compelled so to do by the court to which an

appeal may
brought upon the

Sam‘. 331.
clerk of ‘the court

be taken, or in which a writ of error may be
judgment rendered ‘in such case. °
The bill of exceptions shall be filed with the

in which the cause is pending;

and a copy

thereof shall be certified and returned with the record, to the

court into which such judgment may
Writ of error. 5

SE01‘. 332.

be brought by appeal or

The court, in all trials shall have a right to determine what pa ers shall be taken from the bar by the jury to
their room, any ormer usage or law to the contrary notwithstanding.

ARTICLE XII."

»0_)"' judgment and costs, amt putting in bail for the stay of

execution; and of the judgment docket.

Sscrron

333. Motion to set aside judgment, when
made. ‘

334. Judgment on verdict at a term subsequent to being found, shall include interest up to judgment.

335. Judgment shall be with costs.

336. Costs in actions ex delicto.

337. Costs in ejectment or in suits ex
rel., or for the use of another.

338. Several actions on demands which
might be joined, costs to be allowed
in only one.

339. Defendant, ‘&.c. may otter to confess
judgment in actions on contract,

&.c., and appeals; and if plaintifff
proceed, he shall pay subsequent
costs unless he recover more than
was offered to be confessed.

340. Of the order to pay costs. Attachment.

341. Bill of fees in such case.
342. If fees paid attachment shall not be
executed.
343. Party may require taxation of costs.
344. If paid, shall be noted by the odieer
in his return.
345- If Dim)’ refuse payment, he shall
be held in custody.
345- Length Of Stay of execution on judgments. ‘
347. Recognizance of replevin bail.
348. Bail before the clerk.

349. F of recognizance of replevin
1.

Sacrron

350. If writ issue before bail entered.
the clerk shall so indorse on the
writ. ~ 3 '

351. Replevin bail may be entered with
the sheriff, &.o. T

352. Shall be indorsed on the executionForm of recognizance before the
sheriff.

353. Shall be’ returned with the writ.

354. Shall be copied by the clerk into the
execution docket. Shallbedeemed
a record. _

355. No execution to issue until e$Pi1'3'

- tion of stay, &.c.

356. Force and eifect of recognizance of
replevin bail.

357. Execution thereon, and how executed. _

358. Sale of property on such execution.

359. Cases in which no stay shall 11831‘
lowed.

360. Same.
361. Execution under the last two sections, how endorsed.
362. No stay in case of principelif SW9“
object.
363. Replevin bail may cause
to issue before stay eXPl1'°5364. Other bail may be taken on

execution.
365. Force and effect of such new re“

cognizance. . _
366. Reeognizance of replevin bell 91”"

not dicharge original .i|1|l8m°’"'

execution

such

367. Judgment docket. 369. Such docket shall be open to exami368. Recognizunce of replevin bail shall nation.
be docketed. 370. Penalty for omitting to docket judgl merit, 8w. Sscr. 333. No judgment in any court of record shall be set
aside on motion, unless such motion be made during the term
at which such judgment was rendered.

SECT. 334. When a verdict is rendered at any term of the
court, in an action of debt or assumpsit, on any contract for
the payment of money, and judgment is not rendered on such
verdict until a succeeding term, the court shall estimate the interest which shall have accrued on the sum, for which such verdict was given, and include such interest in the damages of the
party in whose favor judgment may be rendered.

Sizer. 335. In all civil actions the party recovering ‘or obtaining any judgment shall also recover his costs against the
other arty, except those cases in which a different provision is
made by law. a, j l

Sncr. 336. If the plaintifff in any action ex delicto, except
the action of replevin, actions on the case for slander or libel,
trespass for false imprisonment, and all actions in which the
title _to real estate is concerned, do not recover five dollars in
damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages.

SECT. 337. If judgment be rendered for the defendant in an
action of ejectment, or in an action in the name of the state on
the ‘relation of or for theusc of any person or corporation, or
in an action in favor of a nominal plaintifff, for the use and benefit of any person or corporation, any such fact appearing on the
1‘900l‘,d, such defendant may take judgment, if he desire it, for
costs against the lessor of the plaintifff, or relator, or person for
whose use or benefit such action may have been broughtSECT. 338.3 When a plaintifff shall at the same court bring
several actions against the same defendant, upon demands which
{night have been joined in the same action, he shall recover costs
In one action only, unless it shall appear to the court that the
actions affect different rights or interests, and that for such or
9t_herd sufficient reasons such actions ought not to have been
joine . r

Sncr. 339. In any action founded on any judgment, decree,
Or express or implied contract, and in actions appealed from the
decision of a justice of the peace, the defendant may offer and
consent in writing, that judgment may be entered against him
by confession for a specified sum; and such offer and consent in
writing shall be entered on the record, and the time designated
thereon when such offer was made; and if the plaintifff refuse
to take final judgment for such sum, and shall proceed to trial,
and recover no greater sum for his debt and damages, or damages }
alone, up to the time when such offer was made, than was specified in such offer, the defendant shall recover the costs from
the plaintifff, occasioned subsequently to the time of such offer,
Up to the time when such cause was finally determined; and

judgment shall in such case be rendered for the sum offered to
he confessed, and costs exclusive of such subsequent costs;
Seer. 340. Whenever the court shall make an order against
any party in court, for the payment of costs by a specified time,
or in default thereof he shall be attached, and such party shall
,' " ’ ordance with such order, an attachment may at any time after such default be issued by the clerk
of the court, on the adverse party"s filing an atiidavit with the

clerk that such costs have not been paid. ,
SECT. 341. When such attachment shall issue, theclerk shall

make out and deliver to the officer executing the same, a bill of
all the fees and costs proper to be paid under such order, stating
specifically the items thereof. .
. S1:c'r., 342. If such party shall pay such feesand costs upon
v the presentment of such bill by saidiodicer, such attachment
shall not be executed upon by him; otherwise the officer shall
execute the same, without further notice or requisition, upon
such party. 4 ’ 4
Saar. 343. If such party require it, the officer shall take him
l before some oiiicer or court, authorized to tax such fees and
costs; and upon such taxation, such party may show, by competent proof, the payment of such fees and costs, or any part
thereof, and the amount thus paid shall be deducted from such

bill.

Sscr. 344. If such party shall pay the amount of costs taxed

he against him on such investigation, he shall be discharged, and

the officer shall note the facts in the return of the attachment.
SECT. 345. In case such party fail or refuse to pay the
It fees and costs specified in such bill, when he is in custody on
‘M such attachment, or if he so fail or refuse after such taxation,
he shall continue in the proper custody until he be legally discharged.
Snow. 346. Upon putting in bail as hereinafter provided, any

W party, against whom a judgment shall have been obtained, may
5‘ have a stay of execution thereon from the time of the SIg|1}11g
of such judgment until the expiration ‘of the period for which

execution thereon may he stayed, as follows: A _
ng 1. If the sum for which judgment may have been obtained,
such stay of execuinclusive of costs, do not exceed six dollars,

tion shall be for thirty days:
d 2. If such sum and costs exceed six dollars, and do not exceed

3% twelve dollars, such stay of execution shall be for- sixty days=
cud - 3. If such sum and costs exceed twelve dollars, and do I101
ng exceed twenty dollars, such stay of execution shall be for nmeti'

5‘ days:
md 4. If such sum and costs exceed twenty dollars, and do not
hall be for 0119

ng exceed forty dollars, such stay of execution s

‘V3’ hundred and twenty days:
md 5. If such sum and costs exceed forty dollars,

iing exceed one hundred dollars, such stay of execution sha
“'8' one hundred and fifty days:

and do 110‘
ll be to!‘

6. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, such
stay of execution shall be one hundred and eighty days.*

Sncr. 347. Any person, wishing for the benefit of such stay
of execution, may have the same by procuring one or more su cient freehold sureties to enter into a recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail for such defendant, for the payment of
such judgment, together with the interest and costs accrued and
to accrue thereon at the expiration of the stay of execution.

Sncr. 348. If such bail be entered before the issuing of execution on such judgment, the same shall be taken by the clerk
of the court who shall approve such sureties and enter such recognizance of record.

Sncr. 349. Every such recognizance of bail for the stay of
execution taken by the clerk of the circuit court, shall be written
immediately following the entry of such judgment, and signed
by the bail, and shall be substantially in the form following:

“I (or we, as the case may be,) acknowledge myself (or ourselves) replevin bail for the payment of the foregoing judgment,
together with the interest and costs accrued and to accrue
thereon, at or before the expiration of the time allowed by law
for the stay of execution on such judgment.”

Sscr. 350. If an execution be issued before the expiration
of the time for which the judgment might be stayed, and bail
shall not have been entered, the clerk shall endorse on the writ
the date of such judgment, and that the same is repleviable by
putting in bail for the stay of execution.

_ SE01‘. 351 . The person or persons against whom such executron shall have been issued, may have a stay of execution on such
judgment, until the expiration of the time from the date thereof,
for which a stay of execution is allowed by law, by putting in
bail as above allowed, to be approved by the officer in whose
hands such writ may be for execution.

S1-:c'r. 352. Such recognizance of bail thus taken by such
officer shall be endorsed on such execution, and signed by the
bail, and shall be substantially in the form following:

“I (or we, as the case may be,) acknowledge myself (or ourselves) replevin bail for the payment of the judgment upon
which the within execution has issued together with the costs
accrued and to accrue thereon, at or before the expiration of the
time allowed by law for the stay of execution on such judgment. ’

SE01‘. 353. The officer having such writ shall return the
same, and his doings thereon, without further execution thereof,
to the clerk’s office from which such execution issued, immediately after taking such bail.

Sncr. 354. Such recognizance of replevin bail taken by such
Officer, shall be copied by the clerk of such court into his execution docket, in the appropriate column, and shall be deemed ‘

and taken to be a record.

SECT- 355. Upon puttin in bail, as required by the preceding provisions of this artic e, no execution, or further execution, as the case may be, shall issue until the time fixed by law

for such stay of execut_1on shall have expired.

Sxcr. 356. Every such recognizance of bail, whether taken
by the clerk of such court, or by the officer to whom any such
writ of execution may be directed, shall, from the date thereof,
be taken andldeemed, and shall have the force and effect of a
judgment confessed in a court of record, against the persons
executing such recognizance, and against their estates, and execution againsttheir estates and bodies may issue in every such
case, as 111 cases of other judgments, for the amount of the judgment thus stayed, together with the costs accrued therein, and
also the costs of execution on such judgment. *

Sacr. 357. Execution on such judgment thus stayed, and
such recognizance of replevin bail shall isssue jointly against
all the parties thereto; but any levy by virtue thereof shall be
first made on the property of the defendant or defendants in the
original judgment, and if sufiicient property be not found, in the
just estimation of the officer executing such writ, to satisfy the
plaintifff’s judgment, and interest, and all costs, the levy shall be
completed without delay upon the property of the bail.T

Sncr. 358. The sale of such property may be advertised to
take place at the same time; but the property of the original
defendant or defendants shall be first offered for sale, and i the
same will not bring the amount of the plaintifff’s judgment and
interest, and all costs, the officer executing such writ shall forthwith proceed to sell the property of such bail, to make the

residue, .
t. SECT. 359. No stay of execution shall be allowed on judg8 ments obtained against any attorney at law, for monies by_hin_1
collected or received as such attorney, or against any lI1Cllvidual, individuals, company, or corporation, for any m0_I18Y_3
deposited with him or them, or against any clerk of a circuit
or other court, sheriff, coroner, county treasurer, county agent,
trustee of the county seminary fund, school commissioner»
agent of the surplus revenue, or against the suretres of any

such officer.
Sncr. 360. No stay of execution shall be allowed on any

judgment against any public officer, county officer, treasurer 0
any congressional township, or school district, or any other0 '
cer, who, by virtue of his office, has any monies belonging ‘P
the state, or any such county, township, or district, 111 l“5
hands, or any of the university, college, or school funds, 01‘ 311)’

trust funds belonging to the state, or any county, township, district, or other portion of the people of this state, or against their
sureties.

Sncr. 361. The court rendering any such judgment as contemplated in the last two preceding sections, shall order the
execution to be endorsed, that the same shall not be replevied
or stayed; and executions issuing on any such judgment shall be
returnable in sixty days from the date thereof.

SECT. 362. When any court shall render judgment against
two or more persons, any of whom are sureties for any other
or others in the contract on which such judgment is founded,
there shall be no stay of execution on such judgment, if such
sureties object at the time of rendering such judgment; and it
shall be so ordered by the court, unless the bail for the stay of
execution will undertake specially to pay the judgment, in case
the amount thereof cannot be levied of the principal judgment
defendant. '

SECT. 363. Any person having become bail for the stay of
execution on any judgment, may file with the clerk of the proper court an affidavit made before any person authorized to
administer oaths, stating therein that such person verily believes
that he will be liable to pay such judgment, and interest and
costs thereon, unless execution be issued immediately on such
judgment; and such clerk shall thereupon issue execution to the
proper officer, who shall proceed thereon to levy the amount of
such judgment, interest, and costs.

Sncr. 364. The person against whom the judgment thus replevied was rendered, may replevy the same for the remainder
of the time for which a stay of execution is allowed by law, by
entering other sufficient bail on such judgment before the proper clerk, to be approved as in other cases, if execution shall
not have been issued; or such judgment may be replevied after
the issuing of such execution, by entering bail with the sheriff,
as provided in other cases. ,

Sncr. 365. Such new recognizance of bail shall, in like manner as in the case of the original bail, be deemed and taken, and
shall have the force and effect of a judgment by confession, and
execution may be issued thereon, as it might have been in the case
of the first bail, and such first bail shall be thereby discharged.

Sizer. 366. The taking of any recognizance specified in this
article for the stay of execution, shall not operate as a satisfact_l0n of the original judgment, nor to extinguish or affect any
38!}: created thereby upon the estate of the original judgment

8 tor.‘

Sncr. 367. The clerk of every court of record shall provide
311_d keep a docket book, in which he shall register, within
thirty days after each term of such court, in alphabetical order,

‘1_8t_atement of each judgment rendered at such term, containing, «

1. The names at length of all the parties to such judgment;
2. The amount of the debt, damages, or sum recovered, with
the ag regate amount of the costs;

3. ’§'he day of the month and year when such judgment was
rendered;

4. If such judgment was recovered against several persons,
such statement shall be repeated under the name of each person against whom the judgment was recovered, in the alphabetical order of their names, respectively.‘

Seer. 368. Such clerk shall include in the register of judgements entered in said docket, all recognizances of bail for the

stay of execution, whether taken before such clerk, or returned
by the sheriff, immediately after the taking or the return thereof,
specifying therein the judgment replevied, the amount thereof,
and the date of such recognizance, and the names of the bail.

SECT. 369. Such docketing of each judgment and recognizance shall be a matter of record, and open, during the usual
hours of transacting business, to the search and examination of
all persons desiring the same.

Seer. 370. Every clerk who shall omit or neglect the duty
of registering any such judcrment, or recognizance of replcvin
bail in said docket, as hereinbeforc required, shall be liable to any
person injured, for the amount of damages sustained by such
omission or neglect, to be recovered by the injured party, in an
action on the case against such clerk, or by a suit on his otiicial
bond, against him and his sureties.

ARTICLE XIII.

Of executions and the duties and liabilities qf ojicers thereon.

EXECUTION; LIEN; rnorsnrr EXEMPT AND SECTION
LIABLE; rmivcirn. AND SURETY; DELI- 379. Liens on personnlpropertyby virtue

VERY BOND. of executions, etc.
SEC-1-mu 380. Lien in case ofjudgmcnt 0" 0m’
371. Execution to collect judgment. Gi01b0nd372, Fi_fa_ 0, cm 3,," 381. Gold and silver coin and culw"
373. Fi. fa. to whom directed.—Ca. sa. bank notes Subject ‘01°VYshall not issue while ti. ta. unre- 332- Bills Of bank?» 910- ma)’ bc 5°“ as
turned, and vice versa. P9750351 P1'0PC”Y, . 1..
374. If no sheriff or coroner, how writ 383. The interest of the niortgai-3°|"*l°:‘c‘
may be executed, in personal estate may be 80 v° ’

375. Power, liability, etc., of the person 334- PYOPGTW 0f Principal take" before

appointed, etc. ' suretY'9376. The amount of personal property 385. Delivery bond. am
exempt from execution. 386. Effect thereof and measure of
377. Not to exceed $100, excepting cer- mages in suit thereon. J
‘ tain articles, etc. 387. No stay on judgment on such ban '
378. Sheriff shall endorse time of recciv- 2388. Principal in such bond may sell Pr:
ing writ. 3 party and account for thep ~‘

PROPERTY DESIGNATED; APPRAISEMENT
THEREOF.

SECTION

389. Debtor shall designate property.

390. If the debtor fail to do so, ofiioer
may stlect, etc.

391. If debtor fail to designate sufficient
property, officer shall complete the
levy.

'* 392. But officer shall not first levy on

principal messuage, etc.

Personal estate of debtor shall be

‘first sold except the debtor otherwise direct.

But officer need not levy in such
case, if doubt of the ownership.
Property shall not sell for less than

two thirds its appraised value;

Except property hereafter fraudulently conveyed.

Officer shall cause property to be
appraised.

Appraisers, how selected.

If defendant fail to choose, officer
shall choose for him.

How supplied if appraisers fail or
refuse to act.

401. Penalty for refusing to act as apPmiser.

Appraisers shall return schedule.

Shall verify the same under oath.Oflicer may administer such‘ oath.

If property will not sell, the appraisement shall be returned with
the writ.

The levy and such return shall continue a lien, etc.

Revaluation may be had.

Not more than one offer to sell
under the same execution, unless
at the costs of the creditor.

408. Cases in which property shall not

be appraised.

393.

394.
395.
396.
397.

398.
399.

400.

402.
403.

404.

405.

406.
407.

SALE; PROCEEDINGS TIIEREIN; DEED TO
PURCHASER, ETC.

409. Property shall sell for the best price
above two thirds the appraised
value. 410. But the rents and profits for not
more than seven years shall be
first offered.

411. Value of rents and profits shall be
appraised.

412. Shall be sold by the year, etc,

Sscrrox J

413.
414.
415.
415.
417.

418.
419.

420.

421.
422.

423.

424.
_ 425.

426.

427.
428.

429.

430.

431.

432.
433.
434.
435.
436.

437.
438.

439.
440.

Sale of real estate, where made and in what parcels.

Notice of sale of real estate, how
given.

Notice of sale of personal estate, bow

given.

Personal estate shall be subject to
view when exposed for sale.

If property not sufficient, another
writ may issue.

Proceedings under such other writ.

If property cannot be sold, etc., officer shall so make his return.

Vendi. exponas may issue.

Levy and return shall remain a lien.

If sheriff, etc., die before the writ be
executed, it shall be executed by
his survivor.

Officer receiving execution from
another county may transmit his
return, etc., by mail.

Deal to purchaser of real estate.

If .purchaser die before the deed is
made, deed shall be made to his
heirs, etc.

Officer dying before making the
dwd, his successor, etc., shall convey.

Penalty, etc., for selling without
notice.

Officer or his deputy may not purchase property sold by him.

Purchaser failing to pay the purchase money, may be proceeded
against on motion.

Or officer may re-expose property to

sale, and proceed against delinquent
for the deficiency and costs.

Officer shall render surplus to the
debtor.

CAPIAS AD SATISFACIENDUM

Ca. sa.

Afiidavit for ca. sa.

Last section explained.

Sci. fa. on such affidavit.

After ten days’ service of sci. fa.
court may hear such affidavit.

If default be made, court shall proceed to hear, etc.

Trial on appearance of parties. 010Whcn ca. sa. may issue.

But no C11. sa. shall issue if debtor
surrender his money, efiects. 0“?Sacrron
441. Otherwise the writ shall forthwith
issue. i p
442. If debtor has not been held to bail
- etc., capia's ad respondcndum may
issue. _
443. Debtor may give appearance bail.
444. Recognizance, to whom payable.
445. Force and effect thereof.
446. How far appearance bail shall be
liable.

44?. Ca. sa. to another county how executed.

INSOLVI-IN'I"S DISCHARGE FROM CA. SA.;
DEATH OF DEBTOR, ETC.

448. Person arrested on a ca. sa. may
discharge himself by giving up an
his property. effects, etc, under
oath.

449. Or by making oath that he has no
property. ,

450. He may be taken before a judge or
justice to make such oath.

451. Power of such judge or justice.Ofiicer's return.

452. Notice to the creditor.

453. Same.—Creditor may examine such
debtor. .

454. Persons complying with the last six

sections shall be discharged from
arrest.

Sacrron
455. Officer and his sureties may defend
as to such discharge under the general issue.

456. Property thus delivered on a ca. sa.
shall be sold as in other cases.

457. OfIicer‘s return.

458. Death of prisoner on ca. sa. shall
not discharge the judgment.

459. If prisoner escape, ii. fa. or ca. sa.
my issue.

OFFICER TO PAY OVER MONEY, ETC.; HIS
LIABILITY; RETURN DAY 01‘ EXECUTIOSS.

460. Ofiicer collecting money, shall pay
over within twenty days.

461. Ofiicer failing to levy, how liable.

462. Same for failing to return execution.

463. Same for failing to pay over to creditors.

464. Same for failing to pay surplus to
the debtor.

465. Damages, interest, and costs recoverable under the last four sections.

466. Ofiicer may be amerced on motion.

467. Judgment in such case.

468. Injured party may proceed by suit.
etc. _

469. Executions, when returnable.

Executions; liens; property exempt and liable; principal and
surely ; delivery bond.

Sacr. 371. Whenever judgment shall be rendered in any
court of record, for any debt, damages, sum of money, 01'
costs, and execution thereon is not stayed, or after the expiration of any such stay, the party in whose favor such judgment
was rendered may have an execution directed to the sheriff, or
other proper officer, to collect the amount of such judgment?‘

Sacr. 372. Such execution may be either against the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of the person against whom
such judgment was rendered subject to execution, Jr against his

’ body, as hereinafter provided.’r

Sacr. 373. Executions against the property of any part)’

I may be directed to the sheriff, or other proper oliicer of any

county in this state, but no execution against the body shall be
issued, whilst an execution against the property remains unreturned, nor shallian execution against the property be issued
while there is an execution against the body unreturned.*

Sacr. 374. Where there is no sheriff or coroner, or such
sheriff and coroner are disqualified from acting, by reason of interest or otherwise, the court in term, or any judge thereof in
vacation, may, by an order endorsed on such execution, direct
the same to be delivered to any person not interested nor of
kin to the parties.

Sxcr. 375. The person thus receiving such execution, shall,
in respect thereto, be deemed to have all the power and authority of the sheriff of such county to execute such writ, and
shall be liable, in all respects, to all theprovisions of law concerning such execution, so far as the same can be applicable.

SECT. 376. The following personal property, when owned
by any person having a family, or being a householder, shall be
exempt from levy and sale under any execution,_'to-wit: The
necessary wearing apparel of such person and his family; the
family bible, and school books used by or in the family; one cow
and calf, six sheep and the wool thereof, two beds and the necessary bedding therefore, household and kitchen furniture, not
to exceed in value fifteen dollars, one chopping axe, one
plough, one weeding hoe, one loom, one spinning wheel, one
reel, and the necessary provisions to supply the family for two
months; and also the arms and accoutrements required by law
to be kept by such person for military duty, or with which he
shall have furnished himself as the member of any military
company.

Seer. 377. But the whole amountof property so exempt
from execution shall in no case exceed the value of one hundred
dollars, exclusive of such wearing apparel, bible, and school
books, arms and accoutrements, and the two months provisions;
and in all cases, the judgment debtor may claim as exempt from
execution any other article or articles, so that the whole value
gfuthe property so exempted shall not exceed one hundred

0 ars.

Sizer. 378. Upon the receipt of any execution, it shall be
the duty of the sheriff, or other officer, to endorse thereon the
year, month, day, and the hour of the day when he received
the same.

Sncr. 379. When an execution shall be issued against the
property of any person, his goods and chattels situated within
the jurisdiction of the officer to whom such execution shall be
delivered shall be bound only from the time of the delivery of

the execution to be executed; but if there be several executions,
whether issued out of a court of record or not of record, or by
a justice of the peace, against the same defendant, in the hands
of different officers, that execution, Without -reward to the time
of its delivery, under which the first levy shall be made, shall
have the preference, and all liens created by the prior delivery
of any other execution, shall be divested in favor of the execution thus first levied." "
Si.=:c'r. 380. In all cases of judgments on the bonds of any
officer, at the suit of the state of Indiana, the real and personal r
estate of the debtors shall be bound from the date of the process.
by which such suit was instituted. '
SECT. 381. Upon execution against the property of a judglment debtor, the ‘officer may levy upon any current gold or
. silver coin, or current bank notes, belonging to such judgment
debtor, and may pay and return the same as so much money
collected, without exposing the same to sale. v SE01‘. 382. Upon execution the officer may levy upon an
sell as other personal estate, any bills or other evidences of

' debt issued by any moneyed corporation or bank, or by this
state, or the government of the United States, and circulated
as money, which shall belong to the judgment debtor.T

f Sncr. 383. When goods or chattels shall be pledged, assigned, .

f or mortgaged for the payment of money or the performance of
any contract or agreement, the right and interest in such goods
or chattels of the person making such pledge, assignment, or
mortgage may be sold on execution against him; and the purchaser shall acquire all the right and interest of such person,
and shall be entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels, on complying with the terms and conditions of such pledge,
assignment, or mortgage.

Sizer. 384. If it shall appear upon the face of any writ of

E execution, or by endorsement thereon, made by the officer issuing the same, that any of the persons against whom such execution may be issued, is only surety for any other person against

whom such execution may be issued, the oliicer executing the
same shall Hrst sell so much of the estate of the principal defendant named in such execution as he may be able to find, before he shall sell any of the estate of such surety, unless such
officer may be otherwise directed by such surety.

Sncr. 385. When any personal estate shall be taken in execution by virtue of the provisions of this article, the oliicer
taking the same may return such property to the executiondefendant, upon such defendant’s executing a bond payable to
the plaintifff in execution in a penalty of double‘ the value of
the property so released, with sufiicient surety, and conditioned
for the delivery of such property to such officer at a time and
place named in such condition, to be sold according to law;
which bond shall be by such officer returned into the office from
whence the execution by virtue of which such property may

have been taken, issued.
Sncr. 386. Such bond shall be valid in law, and an action

may be had thereon whenever the condition thereof may have
been violated, and on recovery being had thereon, the amount
due on such execution shall be assessed in favor of the plaintifff,
provided the property so taken be of sufiicient value to satisfy
the same; and if not, then the value of the property so taken;
and in all such cases ten per centum damages shall be assessed
on the amount so recovered."

Sscr. 387. On a judgment obtained on such bond there
shall be no stay of execution, and the officer to whom execution shall issue shall take no delivery bond foroany property
levied upon under said execution; and execution Issued on such

judgment shall be returned in thirty days.

Snc-r. 388. Nothing contained in the previous sections shall

‘ prevent the principal in any delivery bond from selling such
i property, or any part thereof, at private sale, for not less than
, two thirds of its appraised value, and paying over the proceeds
thereof to such officer, instead of returning such property, as

required by such delivery bond; and by so doing, the condition
of such bond shall be discharged.

Property designated : appraisement thereof.

Sncr. 389. When any writ of execution shall issue against
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any person, it
shall be the duty of the officer into whose hands such writ may

come to be executed, to levy the same upon such part of the ’

estate of such person as such person may designate ; but in the
exercise of such privilege, it shall be incumbent on such person
to make such designation in sutiicient time to enable the officer
to levy, advertise, and sell property before the return day of
such execution.

SEc'r. 390. When the execution debtor shall fail or refuse
to designate such property, the officer having such writ shall
proceed to levy the same upon such property of the debtor as
can be found, subject to execution."

Sncr. 391. If such debtor shall fail to designate a sufiiciency
of property in the just opinion of such officer, to satisfy such
execution, the oiiicer shall proceed to levy the execution upon
so much other property of the debtor, which can be most readily
found, as will be sufiicient, in addition to the property designated,
to satisfy such execution.

1 Sister. 39?. But when no sufiicient designation of the property to be levied u on shall be made by the debtor, such execution shall not be evied upon the rincipalmessuage, lands:
or tenements of such debtor, or on W ich he may reside, unless
a sufficiency of other property cannot be found to satisfy the
execution or executions in the hands of such officer. _

, Snow. 393. In all cases the real estate of every execution
debtor shall be exempt from levy and sale until his personal estate
subject to execution shall be first levied upon and sold; except
where he shall voluntarily direct otherwise, or unless such personal estate in the just opinion of such officer is insufiicient to .
pay and satisfy the amount of such executionf‘ '

Sncr. 394. Nothing contained in the preceding sections of 1
this article shall be construed to require of any sheriff or other f
officer to levy upon any property selected by any execution.
debtor to be sold on execution, if there exist any reasonable‘
doubt that such debtor is the real or bonahde owner of the
property so selected. ,

Sizer. 395. No goods and chattels or lands and tenements
of any execution debtor shall be sold on execution issued out
of any court of record for less than two thirds of the fair value
thereof, at the time of such sale, exclusive of all liens, mortgages, or encumbrances thereon.

Sncr. 396. But the provisions of the preceding section shall
not be construed to apply to the levy and sale of real estate,
which may hereafter be fraudulently conveyed or transferred
by the execution debtor, with a view to defraud his creditors.T

Sncr. 397. The officer to whom any such writ of execution
shall be delivered to be executed, shall, before the sale, unless
otherwise directed by the execution debtor, proceed to ascertain
the fair value of such property. ,

Sscr. 398. For that purpose, two disinterested householders
of the neighborhood Where the levy was made, shall be selected
as appraisers; one of whom shall be chosen by the execution
debtor, and the other shall be chosen by the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney ; or in the absence of the plaintifff, his agent, and attorney, by the othcer executing such writ; and said appraisers shall
forthwith proceed to value such property according to its fair value at the time ; and in case of their disagreement as to such value
they shall choose a like disinterested householder of the neighborhood, and with his assistance they shall complete such valuation.

SECT. 399. In case such execution debtor shall fail to choose
an appraiser within three days after notice of such levy, such
officer shall choose an appraiser for him, who shall proceed in
all respects as if he had been chosen by such execution debtor.

Sncr. 400. In case any of said appraisers shall fail to complete such valuation, such plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, or
such officer in their absence, or the execution debtor, or the
appraisers, if the two remain who were first chosen, as the
case may he, shall choose an appraiser in the place of the
one before chosen by him or them, and refusing to act; or if
such execution debtor shall in such case fail to choose such appraiser within two days after notice of such refusal to act by the
appraiser chosen by him, such officer shall choose an appraiser
for him; and any appraiser thus chosen shall proceed in all respects as if he had been chosen in the first instance.

S1-‘.CT. 40!. Every householder chosen as an appraiser as
aforesaid, who shall refuse to act as such, except in cases of
sickness of himself or family, or unavoidable accident preventing him, shall upon conviction thereof in any court of competent
jurisdiction be fined in any sum not exceeding fifty dollars.

Sncr. 402. Upon the completion of such appraisement the
said appraisers shall return a schedule thereof to such officer in
writing, specifying therein the value of each tract, lot, or parcel of real estate, and of the several articles of personal property, which may have been levied upon by virtue of such execution, subject to appraisement.

Sncr. 403. Said appraisers shall take and subscribe an oath
or affirmation annexed to such appraisement, in substance as
follows: “ We the undersigned do solemnly swear (or affirm)
that the property mentioned in the foregoing schedule is, to the
best of our judgments, worth the sums specified and set down
therein, the same being the fair and just value ‘thereof at this
time, [exclusive of any liens, mortgages, or encumbrances existing thereon] :” Which oath or affirmation such oliicer is hereby
fully authorized to administer, and also to attest the same when
taken and subscribed by such appraisers. _

Sncr. 404. Whenever any of the property thus appraised
cannot be sold for two thirds of such valuation, it shall ‘be the
duty of the officer by whom such levy shall have been made,
when he returns such execution, to return said appraisement
therewith, stating in his return such failure to sell.‘ _

Sncr. 405. Such levy and return shall constitute and remain
a lien on the property thus remaining unsold, and a writ of venditioni exponas may issue for the sale thereof, as in other cases.

Sacr. 406. When any such writ of venditioni exponas shall
issue, either party may have a re-valuation of the property levied upon, by paying the expenses of such re-valuation.

Seer. 407. The officer to whom any such execution shall
be delivered, shall proceed to execute the same with as little
delay as possible; but he shall not expose the same pr0P9“Y
to sale more than once under the same execution, unless the
execution creditor will pay the costs and charges of such additional offer to sell.

Smcr. 408. The provisions of this article authorizing the 3P‘
praisement of property, before exposing the same to sale, shall
I10_t apply to sales of property of any state, county, or t0WI}'
Slllp officers, or executors, administrators, or guardians, and their
sureties on executions upon judgments obtained against_tl16m
33 Such; 1101‘ to attorneys and counsellors at law for failing 10

‘pay over monies collected by them as such, nor against any
bank, savings’ institution, or insurance office, nor to judgments
on forfeited delivery bonds.

Sale : proceedings therein : deed to purchaser, Q-c.

Sxcr. 409. Real and personal estate taken in execution shall
sell for the best price the same will bring at public auction over
and above two thirds of the appraised value thereof as above
herein provided.

Seer. 410. But the estate or interest of the judgment debtor
in any real estate shall not be sold on execution until the rents
and profits thereof for a term not exceeding seven years, of such
estate or interest, shall have first been offered for sale at public
auction; and if the same will not sell for a sum sufiicient to
satisfy such execution, then the estate or interest of the judgment debtor shall be sold by virtue of such execution.

Saar. 411. But before the rents and profits shall be sold as
aforesaid, the same shall be appraised at their fair cash value at
the time, estimating and setting down such value for each year
separately by the appraisers chosen as aforesaid.

Sncr. 412. So many years, not exceeding such term of seven
years, shall be sold as will pay and satisfy the principal, interest,
and costs due and accruing on such execution, and no more;
but if a fraction of a year shall occur in making up the sum due
as aforesaid, such fraction shall be counted and conveyed as a
whole year to the purchaser, and shall entitle him to the whole
year in which such fraction occurs, without his paying the balance of the estimated value of such year.

Szcr. 413. Real estate taken by virtue of any execution,
shall be sold at the door of the court house of the county in
which the same is situate; and if such estate shall consist of
several known lots tracts or parcels, such lots, tracts, or parcels shall be offered separately; and no more of any real estate
shall be offered for sale than shall appear necessary to satisfy
the execution, unless the same is not susceptible of division.

SECT. 414. The time and place of making sale of any real
estate, pursuant to an execution, shall be publicly advertised by
the officer making the sale, for at least twenty days successively,_ immediately previous to the day of sale, by posting up
Written or printed notices thereof in three of the most public
places in the township in which the real estate is situate, and a
like advertisement at the door of the court house of the county,
and also by advertising the same for three Weeks successively
in a newspaper printed nearest to such real estate, if any such
newspaper be printed within the jurisdiction of such officer.

Sacr. 415. Previous notice of the time and lace of the sale
of any goods and chattels by execution, shall e given for ten
days successively, by posting up written or printed notices

thereof in at least three of the most public places in the township where such sale is -to be made.

SECT. 416. No personal roperty shall be sold unless the
same shall be present and sugject to the view of those attending such sale, and shall be sold in such lots and parcels as shall
be calculated to bring the highest price.

SECT. 417. If the property of the execution debtor, levied

‘upon by virtue of any execution, shall not sell for a sum sufficient to pay and satisfy the amount to be collected by virtue of
such execution, the officer executing the same shall make return
of his doings thereon; and upon such return another execution
when required, shall issue, upon which the officer issuing the
same shall endorse the sum or sums previously levied on any
former execution or otherwise paid.

Siccr. 418. The officer shall proceed upon such other writ
as in other cases, to levy upon and sell the property of such
execution debtor to pay and satisfy the balance so remaining
unpaid and unsatisfied; and execution may issue in like manner
as often as necessary until the whole amount to be collected
has been fully paid and satisfied.

Sncr. 419. Whenever it shall so happen that any property
exposed to sale on execution, shall not sell for want of bidders,
or of sufficient time to make such sale, or whenever it shall be
so agreed by the parties to such execution, their agents or attorneys, the officer returning such execution shall make his
return according to the fact, setting forth the property levied
upon, and the reason why the same remains ‘unsold. _

SECT. 420. Upon such return being made, a writ of venditioni exponas may be issued, commanding the proper officer to
advertise and sell such property according to the preceding
provisions of this article respecting the sale of property levied
upon by virtue of an execution. .

SECT. 421. Such levy and return shall continue and constitute a lien on the property remaining unsold, by virtue of
which the same may be held and sold on a writ of venditioni

exponas, if issued before the return day next after the return .

day of such previous execution.

Sacr. 422. If any officer to whom an execution shall have
been delivered, shall die or shall go out of office before such
writ shall have been executed, his successor, or any officer authorized by law to discharge the duties of such office in such
case, shall proceed thereon in the same manner that the officer
to whom such writ was originally delivered might have doneSizcr. 423. Whenever an execution shall be issued in 11"?
county in this state, or from the supreme court directed to the sheriff or coroner of any other county, it shall be lawful for the sheflll

_ or coroner, having received such execution and discharged all the

duties therein required by law, to enclose such execution 31151
forward the same by mail to the clerk of the court by Whom '1
was issued; and on proof being made by such sheriff or coroner
that such execution was mailed in reasonable or sufficient time

to reach the office from which it was issued within the time .
prescribed by law, such sheriff or coroner shall not be liable to '
any amercement or penalty for any failure of the safe arrival
of such execution; but no officer executing any such writ shall
send by mail any money made thereon, unless he shall be specially instructed so to do by the judgment creditor, his agent or
attorney.

SECT. 4524. Upon the sale of real estate or of any term not
exceeding seven years as above specilied by virtue of an execution and the payment of the urchase money, the officer
selling such estate or term shall) make and execute to the
purchaser.a deed of conveyance for the premises, which shall
be valid and effectual to convey all the estate, right, title, and
interest of the execution debtor therein, to such purchaser. "

S1-:c'r. 425. In case the purchaser of any real estate upon
execution, having paid the purchase money therefore, shall die
before a deed of conveyance shall have been executed to him
for such real estate, the officer making such sale shall convey
such real estate to the heirs or devisees of such. deceased
person.

Sscr. 426. If any officer by whom any such sale of real
estate or such term of years shall have been made on execution
shall die or go out of office before executing a conveyance
therefore to the purchaser or other person entitled to such conveyance, the successor of such officer, or any oiiicer authorized
by law to discharge the duties of such office in such case, shall
If the purchase money shall have been paid, make and execute
the necessary conveyance or conveyances, in pursuance of
such sale, in the same manner and with the like effect as the
officer making such sale.

SI-:c'r. 4'27. Any officer who shall sell any real estate, Without giving the previous notices herein directed, or shall sell the
same otherwise than in the manner herein prescribed, shall forfeit and pay to the party injured, two hundred dollars, in addition to such other damages as such party may have sustained,
to be recovered from such officer, or from him‘and his sureties,
in a suit on his oliicial bond.* ,

SECT. 428. The officer or his deputy making the sale of any
property by virtue of an execution, shall’ not, either directly
or indirectly, purchase any property whatever at any sale by
virtue of such execution; and all purchases by such officer or
deputy, or to the use of either of them, shall be void, both as

against the execution creditor and debtor.
Sscr. 429. Whenever any property, real or personal, shall
be sold by virtue of any execution, and the purchaser thereof

shall fail or refuse to pay the purchase money, he shall be liable,

onmotion by the officer making such sale, in the court out_ of

which such execution issued, five days’ notice 0
having been given, to a judgment for the amount
chase money, and ten per centum damages thereon,
with the costs of said motion, and no stay of execution sh

allowed on such judgment.T _
Sscr. 430. Or such oHic_er, instead of proceeding by notice

and motion as aforesaid, may re-expose such property to sale on

the same day; or he may re-expose the same to sale on a subsequent day, by giving notice thereof as in other cases of sales

on execution; and it the amount of such secon

be equal to the am _
cond sale, said nrst purchaser shall be liable for the deficienc&y;,

and ten per centum damages thereon, for the use of
cer, to be recovered by judgment on the like notice an

as provided in the last preceding section.1

Sxcr. 431. Whenever any goods and chattels, or lands and
_s tenements, shall be sold on execution, by virtue of any of the

provisions of this article, for more than will satisfy such execution and all interest and costs, the officer making such sale shall
render the overplus to the execution debtor or debtors.

Capias ad satisfaicicndum.

Sacr. 43?. No writ of execution shall be issu
herein after provided, by any court, officer, or j
peace, against the body of any execution debtor.

—- 1 1' nrn

d motion ,

ed, except 38
ustice of the

SECT. 433. Before any such writ shall issue, the creditor
Wishing to sue out the same, shall ‘file with the officer Whose
duty it is to issue such writ, an aiiidavit charging the debtor
with fraudulently concealing, removing, or conveying, or transferring his property subject to execution, with intent to defraud
and delay such creditor, or charging that such debtor has money, rights, credits, or effects, with which the judgment or

decree of such creditor, or some part thereof, might be paid, and

Seer. 434. Such affidavit as above required, need not designate specifically any property, monies, or effects, fraudulently
removed, transferred, or concealed, conveyed, or withheld by
such debtor; but the jury or court in determining the matters
in issue between the parties, if the finding be for the creditor,
shall designate in such finding, the monies, effects, property,
debts, or things in action, which have been thus removed, congtlaziled, transferred, conveyed, or withheld, and also the value

ereof.

SECT. 43.5. Upon the filing of such affidavit, it shall be the 5
duty of such officer to issue a scire facias, requiring such debtor '3
to appear and show cause before the court out of which such
_Writ against his body should issue, why the same should not
issue against him. '

SECT. 436. At any term of such court, when ten days from 1
the service of such writ to the commencement of such termg
shall have intervened, or at any term of the court after the re- fa
turn of two several writs of scire facias, “not found,” the court 3
shall proceed to hear and determine the matters and things contained in such affidavit. '

SECT. 437. If such debtor shall fail to appear and show It
cause against the issuing of such ‘writ, the court may proceed E
to hear and determine the same in the absence of such debtor; 1..
or a jury for that purpose may be empannelled, if desired by
such creditor. _

Sncr. 438. If such debtor appear and plead to such scire Tl
facias any sufficient matter to bar the issuing of such writ, and £3
an issue to the country be taken thereon, the same may be tried
by the court, by the agreement of the parties, or a jury to try
the same shall be empannelled, if desired by either party.

Saar. 439. If, on any such hearing or trial, the same be de- W
termined against such debtor, such creditor shall be forthwith 11"‘
entitled to a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, to be governed
by the rules and restrictions contained in the next two sections.

SECT. 440. If such debtor shall surrender such monies, ef- ‘No
fccts, property, debts, or things in action, to the use and for the 
benefit of such creditor, or pay the value thereof, as found by mo
such court or jury, no writ of execution shall for that cause be 56°‘
ordered to issue against his body.

SECT. 441. If such debtor fail to surrender or pay as PTO‘ 0”.‘
Vided in the preceding section upon the return of such finding, 3""

a writ of execution shall forthwith issue against his body, upon
the judgment in the case in which such affidavit was filed.
S1-:c'r. 442. If such creditor show in his said atiidavit, that
such debtor has not been held to special bail in the original action, or having been thus held, has been surrendered by his bail,
and also that he has reason to fear, and verily does fear, that
such debtor will leave the state before the trial and determination of the matters alleged in such aiiidavit, a writ of capias ad
respondendum shall issue against such debtor, to be served and
executed like such writ, in an action at law. ,
Seer. 443. Such debtor, on being arrested on said writ, may
* enter into a recognizance, with sutiicient sureties, for his appearance at the trial of such proceeding, and for the surrender

of his body in execution, in case a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum be awarded against his body.

Sncr. 444. The officer making such arrest may take such re' cognizance payable to the judgment creditor, either before or

after such debtor is committed to prison, and shall return the

same to the court from which such writ issued.
t Sr-:c'r. 445. Such. recognizance, when returned, shall have

the force and effect of a recognizance of record, and such sureties on such recognizance, may, at any time before judgment,
surrender such debtor into the custody of the proper officer in
discharge of said recognizance, in like manner as provided in
the case of special bail. ‘
Sacr. 446. A scire facias may issue on such recognizance,
_ and judgment be rendered thereon against the persons liable
' thereby, in like manner as in other cases of recognizance, but
the sureties therein shall only be liable for the amount of the
monies, effects, property, debts, and things in action, fraudulently withheld, concealed, conveyed, or transferred by such
debtor, as found by the court or jury trying the issue on the
proceedings on such affidavit.

Sacr. 447. Whenever a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum .

shall issue, directed to any oiiicer authorized to execute the
same, in any other county than the county in which the judgment was rendered upon which such writ shall have b
Issued, the officer executing such writ shall commit the body 0
the person arrested to the jail of the county in which such
arrest was made, and shall proceed thereon, in all respects, as If
such writ had issued in such county, but shall make return of
-his doings thereon to the county from which such writ issued.

'1.

Insolvenfs discharge from ca. sa.,~ death of debtor, etczted S_Ecr. 448. Any person arrested by virtue of a writ of
,ge capias ad satisfaciendum, while in the hands of the Office’
making such arrest, or being actually imprisoned in jail on such
~,1, arrest, may discharge himself from custody by del'
such officer a sufficiency of property, either real or pe
discharge the debt or damages due on such writ, toge

rsonala,t°
ther with

the interest and costs thereon, or by deliverin to such officer.
all the property both real and personal of W ich he may he‘

possessed, and making oath that he has no more or other property either real or personal subject to execution, and that he
has no monies, rights, credits, or effects in his possession, or
under his control, or in the possession or under the control
of any other person or persons for his use, and that he has,
neither directly nor indirectly, disposed of, transferred, or
concealed, any of his property, rights, credits, monies, or
effects, nor confessed or suffered any judgment or decree with
intent to delay or defraud any of his creditors:

Sxcr. 449. Or such person may discharge himself in like
manner by making oath that he has no property subject to execution, either real or personal, and no rights, credits, monies,
nor effects in or under his possession or control, or in or under
the possession or control of any other person or persons for his
use or benefit, and that he has not, either directly or indirectly
disposed of, transferred, or concealed any of his property, rights,
credits, monies, or effects, nor confessed or suffered any judgment or decree with intent to delay or defraud his creditors.

Sncr. 450. For the purpose of enabling any person arrested
upon a capias ad satisfaciendum to take either of the oaths
prescribed in the last two preceding sections,,it shall be the
duty of the officer making such arrest, upon the request of the
person arrested, to take him before some judge of the circuit
court or justice of the peace for the county within which such
arrest may have been made.

Snow. 45]. Such judge or justice shall have full power to
administer such oath, reducing the same to writing, and fully
explaining it to such person, and causing the same to be signed
by him; which oath so taken and signed shall be delivered to
such officer, who shall make it a part of his return, appending
it to the writ by virtue of which he may have made said arrest.

Snow. 452. The execution creditor shall be entitled to written notice of the time and lace at which, and of the officer
before whom, such oath wil be taken, which notice shall be
served upon such creditor, or his agent or attorney, by the
oiiicer making said arrest or his deputy, if such creditor or his
agent or attorney reside in the county within which said arrest
shall have been made; and if neither the creditor nor his agent
or attorney reside in such county, the said officer shall post up
such notice in the ofnce of the clerk of such county for the
space of ten da s.

Sxcr. 453. guch execution creditor, his agent, or attorne
may attend at the time and place when and where such oat
18 to be administered and propound to the person in custody on
such writ, such questions touching his property, monies, rights,
credits, and effects, as may be deemed relevant and proper by
the judge or justice administering said oath; and such judge or
justice shall reduce such oath and questions and answers to
writing and file the same in the office of the clerk of the circuit

cougt of the county in which such examination may have been

ma e. l

SECT. 454. Persons arrested on any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum who may avail themselves of the provisions of the
six preceding sections of this article, and bring themselves
strictly within the same, shall be thereupon discharged ‘from
further imprisonment on account of such writ and the judgment on which such writ was issued.

Sncr. 455. Theoiiicer from whose custody such person
may be discharged and his sureties, if sued on his ofiicial bond,

‘ or otherwise, for an escape, may plead not guilty thereto, and
give the provisions of this article, such discharge, and all just
matters of defense under such plea.

Snow. 456. When any property has been given up as afore- said, by any person arrested on a writ against his body, to the

r officer making such arrest, he shall proceed to advertise and sell
the same in like manner as if it had been levied upon by virtue
of an execution against such property; and a writ of venditioni exponas may issue as in other cases if necessary.

_ SE01‘. 457. The officer making such arrest shall make return
of all his doings therein, the discharge of such debtor, and the
sale of such property according to the facts, to the court
wllerefrom such writ was issued.

Sncr. 458. If any person being in custody on a writ of

" capias ad satisfaciendum, shall die during his arrest, such arrest
or imprisonment shall not operate as a satisfaction of the judgment on which such writ issued; and the execution creditor
may sue out thereafter any proper legal process, or prosecute
any other legal or equitable remedy for the recovery of his
judgment, interest, and costs, as if such person had never been

arrested on such writ." _
Srzcr. 459. If any person taken on a writ of capias ad saV tisfaciendum shall escape, he may be retaken by the same 01‘ 3
new execution against his body, or against his property ma)’
be issued in the same manner as if his body had never been

taken in execution.

Qficer to pay over money, etc.; his liability; return day of
. execution.

,,. Sncr. 460‘. The officer collecting any money on an execution, shall pay over. the same within twenty days after the 1'9’

ception thereof, to the person entitled thereto, unless payment

thereof shall have been enjoined. _

g Snow. 461. If any officer to whom any writ of execution shall
have been delivered, shall neglect or refuse to levy upon or_Sell
any property justly liable to execution, when the same might

, J

ll’
ty

have been done, he shall be amerced to the value of such property, not to exceed the amount necessary to satisfy such execution, and interest, and costs.

Sncr. 462. If any such officer shall neglect or refuse to
return any Writ of execution to the court to which the same is
returnable, on or before the return day thereof, he shall be
amerced to the amount, with interest and costs due on such
execution.

Saar. 463. If any such officer shall neglect or refuse, on
demand, to pay over to the execution creditor, his lawful agent
or attorney, any sum or sums of money received or collected
on any execution for the use of said party, such officer shall be
amerced in the amount thus collected or received.

Sncr. 464. If any such officer shall neglect or refuse to pay
over and render to any execution-debtor, his lawful agent or
attorney, all monies by him received or collected on any execution against the estate of such debtor, more than sufficient to
satisfy such execution, with the interests and costs thereon,
such officer shall be amerced to the amount thus received or
collected."

Sr-zcr. 465. In all cases specified in the lat four preceding
sections, the person entitled to the amount of such amercement
against such sheriff or other officer, shall, in addition thereto,

recover at the same time legal interest and ten per centum?

damages on the principal sum recovered from such officer, and

also his costs. O
Seer. 466. Such officer may be amerced as aforesaid before

the court to which such writ of execution is returnable, upon 1

motion in such court, ten days’ previous notice of the time and
place of hearing and determining such motion having been
given to such officer, to appear and show cause against the
same.

trary, the court shall render jud
which such officer has become li
Seer. 468. Instead of proceeding by

Sadr. 467. Unless satisfactory cause be shown to the con«meat for the full amount for

ble. "

8.

notice and motion, the

injured party may proceed in any such case on the bond of

such officer,
cording to the

SECT. 469.

against him and his sureties, _
provisions of the preceding sections.
All executions issuing out of any

and shall recover accourt of record

shall be returnable at the expiration of one hundred and eighty

days from the
on Sunday, in W

the Monday next following.

l

>11date thereof, unless the return day
hich case such execution shall be returned on

should happen

 

ARTICLE XIV.

Miscellaneous provisions.

SECTION

470. Females shall not be imprisoned on
mesne or final process.

471. Nor revolutionary soldier.

472. Execution debtor may deliver debt
or thing in action to be sold on
execution.

473. Otiicer shall assign the same when
sold——right &.c. of the debtor shall
vest in the purchaser.

4'74. Purchaser may assign—may maintain an action thereon.

475. Such assignment by officer shall not
defeat pre-existing defense.

476. The words ‘ debt or thing in action ’
defined.

477. In any suit under such assignment,
how proved, &.c.

478. Fi. fa. to another county.

479. Same as to fee bills, &.c.

Sac’:-. 470. No female shall be imprisoned
me process for any debt founded on contract;
,s_ there be other defendants who may be imp
process, her name may be inserted therein,
to summon her to appear and answer such
capias ad satisfaciendum, her name may

Samoa

480. Process against the body may issue
and be executed on Sunday—affidavit.

481. How clerk shall endorse such process.

482. Sheriff, &,c. taking bond which may
need to be assigned, such assignment may be made by his 6116'
cessor.

483. Penalty for destroying notice of
sheriff ‘s sale, &.c.

484. General power to officers to administer oaths in certain cases.

485. Defective bond taken by officer not
void, &.c.—action thereon.

486. Notices, &.c., to whom given.

487. Execution docket.

488. Continuance of causes.

on mesne or final

and if in such case
risoned, if on mesne
but with a command
suit; if the W111: be :1
be inserted, and

e
writ may be executed on the others, but shall not be executed
as to her, and the sheriff shall note the fact on the WritSncr. 471. No soldier of the revolution who is enro

lled on

the pension list, or who has any suiiicient Written evidence 0

his having been such soldier, shall be imprisoned on mesne or
final process for any debt or liability founded on contract; and
if in any such case there be other defendants, the provisions of
the last section shall apply.

SECT. 472. The execution debtor may deliver to the officer
having an execution against his property, any debt or thing in
action, legally or equitably assignable, to be sold by virtue of
such execution; and such officer shall make sale thereof as in
the ease of personal property, except as to the appraisement.

SECT. 473. Upon such sale, the officer shall endorse on the
instrument, or otherwise execute an assignment, specifying that
as such officer, he sold the debt, or thing in action, to the purchaser, by virtue of an execution in favor of the plaintifff, against
the defendant, naming the parties, and shall sign his name as
such officer thereto, and deliver such instrument and assignment
to the purchaser; and such assignment shall vest all the right,
demand, and title, of the execution debtor thereto in such purchaser, as fully and completely as if the same had been assigned,
transferred, and delivered to him by such debtor, at the time it
was delivered to such officer to be sold as aforesaid.

Sscr. 474. Upon such assignment by the officer as aforesaid, the purchaser may assign, transfer, and deliver such debt
or thing in action, as in other cases, and in his own name may
maintain suit or have process for the recovery of any money or
property specified in such debt or thing in action, or for the enforcement of any covenant therein contained.

Si-:c'r. 475. Such assignment by such officer shall not affect
any valid payment, set-off, or legal or equitable defense as against
such debt or thing in action before notice of the delivery thereof
to such officer to be sold, was given to the person claiming or
setting up such ayment, set-off, or defense.

. SECT. 476. be words “ debt or thing in action,” as used
in the four previous sections, shall be deemed to include all judgments and decrees for the pa ment of a specific sum of money, ‘
and all mortgages, bonds, bil s, and notes, and all other instruments and debts which are legally or equitably assignable.

Sscr. 477. In declaring on any such assignment it shall not
be necessary to state, recite, or show any judgment, decree, or '
execution by virtue of which such sale was made, nor to prove 
the execution of such assignment by such officer, unless the
Same be denied by a plea supported by affidavit.

_ Sncr. 478. No execution against the property of an eXeCU- i
tron defendant shall be issued by any clerk of a circuit or pro- *
bate court to any officer except of the county in which the
Judgment or decree was rendered on which execution is to
‘SSW: unless the execution plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, will
make and file an affidavit with such clerk, stating that none of
the execution defendants in such cause has any goods and chattels, lands and tenements in the county in which such judgment
or decree is rendered, subject to execution as such plaintifff has
reason to believe and verily does believe.

SECT. 479. The provisions of the revious section shall
apply to all fee bills issued by any such c erk. .

Sncr. 480. Mesne and final process may be isssued and executed on Sunday whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the
person suing out the same, his agent, or attorney, stating in addition to any other matters which may be necessary, that he will
lose his debt, claim, judgment, or decree, as he has reason to fear
and believe, unless process issue on that day.

Seer. 481. The clerk issuing such process shall endorse
thereon that the person or persons therein named are not privileged from the execution of such process on Sunday; and
thereupon the same may be executed on such day or any other
day of the Week as in other cases.

Sncr. 4852. When any sheriff or other officer shall take any bond
of any person which by law is necessary to be assigned, transferred, or delivered to any other person for the urposes of any
suit or proceeding, or otherwise, and such sheri or other officer
shall die before the assignment, transfer, or delivery thereof, his
successor in office, or other officer into whose hands the same
may come by virtue of any law of this state, may assign, transfer,
or deliver such bond with like force and effect as if the same
had been done by such original sheriff or otherofficer.

Sncr. 483. If any person shall wifully take down or deface
any notice of sale of real or personal property, put up by any
sheriff or other officer previous to the day of sale therein specilied, without the consent of the party suing out such execution,
and of the defendant therein, such person shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined in any sum not exceeding
fifty dollars. S1-:c'r. 484. Every court and officer, authorized to take any
recognizance of appearance, special or replevin bail, or to take
any surety on any bond required of any officer for the discharge
of the duties of his office, or of any party or suitor in court for
the payment of any money, judgment, or decree on appeal,
or otherwise, shall have power to examine on oath the person
offering to become such bail or surety concerning his estate and
circumstances, and his sufiiciency as such bail or surety. _

SECT. 485. When any bond or recognizance shall be taken
by any officer in the discharge of the duties of his office, from
any person, to secure the payment of money, or the performance
of any contract or duty for the benefit or use of any individual»
such bond or recognizance shall not be void, nor shall the princlpal or surety therein be discharged from any just liability for
any want of form or of the substantial matter, condition or cot}ditionsrequired by law, but shall be equitably bound to the
party interested; and such party may, by action of debt 01'
scare facias, or by his bill in chancery, in any court of comp?tent jurisdiction, suggest that such bond or recognizance 19
defective, and recover his just and equitable demand of the

principal and the person or persons who were intended and
included as suretles.

Sncr. 486. All notices required in the progress of any suit
or proceeding, or in any matter relating thereto, to be given to
the adverse party, may be given to his agent or attorney at law,
if either of them reside in this state, and may be served and returned by the sheriff, or officer acting as such, of the proper
county; but if neither the part , his agent, nor attorney, reside
in this state, such notice may be filed in the office of the clerk
of the court where such suit is pending, or may be published,
for three weeks successively, in some public newspaper printed
in such county."

Sscr. 487. The clerk of every court of record shall prepare
and keep an execution docket, in which he shall docket all writs of
execution as they are issued by him, specifying in proper columns,
the names of the parties; againstrwhom the judgment was rendered; the amount of the judgment, and also interest due at
the issuing of the writ, and the costs; the kind of writ, and to
what officer issued; and such clerk shall also prepare an additional column, in which he shall enter at length the return of
such officer. to such writ; and such docket entries shall be
taken and deemed to be a record.

SEc'r. 488. Any court for good cause shown may continue
any suit or proceeding pending therein at any stage of the proceedings at the costs of the applicant, to be paid as the court
shall order-and direct.T

  

CHAPTER 41.

OF THE PROCEEDINGS IN DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN ATTACHMENT.

Anmcns 1. Of the proceedings in domestic attachment.
Almcns 2. Of the proceedings in foreign attachment.

ARTICLE I.

Of the proceedings in domestic attachment.

339130" SECTION
1. In _what cases writ of domestic at- concealed orhe besecretly removing
tachment may issue. his property, etc.

2. Writ not to issue if family of debt- 3. What shall be deemed concealing his
or remain, unless his absence be absence by his family.

; ment of his debts whenever such debtor shall be secretly

Samoa .
23. Rules as to costs in case of garnishee

—-garnishee, not bound to perform
contract otherwise than bound to

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 

rrron . ,
. Such writ may issue on Sunday.

~. Allidavit of creditor.
A. Bond of creditor.

I. Proceedings before justice of the peace the debtor.
--writ,‘ etc. 24. Garnishee may be held to bail on affidavit.

3. To what constable writ directed.
_ Alias write.

9. Constable shall attach property, etc.,

and return writ.—Lien.

0. Justice to advertise pendency of proceedings.—Hearing and trial.

.1. Appeal. ‘

.2. If creditor‘s claim exceed justice’s jurisdiction, or it is necessary to attach the land of the debtor, creditor
may proceed in circuit court-writ

25. Other creditors may file and prove
claims on filing bond.--May summon garnishee, etc.

26. If any creditor’s claim exceed jnstioe‘S
jurisdiction, he shall certify cause
to circuit court.

before the justice. _
28. Claims filed in such case before 1118tice, adjusted in circuit court: constable released.

29. Judgments in circuit court.

30. Court or justiceto adlust °l3l’“5"'

Creditors, how paid.
31. Fees, how paid. .

nishee‘s or debtor’s property.

14. Sheriff shall levy attachment, etc.Lien.

15. On return of writ, clerk shall docket
cause.—Notice to be published in a
newspaper. _If no lands attached.
posted notices sufficient.

16. After ten days’ notice, court shall
bear plaintiH"s claim, award execution, etc. A

17. Alias writs may issue, but if returned no property found, creditor to

pay costs thereof.

18. Garnishee summoned on affidavit,
etc. —- When to appear. —— How
served with process.

19. Effect of service as to garnishee’s

33. Replevin bail.
34. Debtor may release his property 11!

giving bond, etc.
35. Bond where filed.

36. Suit on such bond.

37. Debtor may appear and plead. 83¢»
without giving bond, but his PW‘
perry shall not be released.

38. Extent of surety’s liability under the

provisions of this article.

39. Lienof consignee.

40. Right of property when claimed. 110W

liability. , tried‘
20. Garnishee may he proceeded against. 41. Goods, etc., when released to claimalthough no property attached. ' ant.—Costs of trial of right of pro2l. If gamishee tail -to appear, answer, perty.

’ 42. Appeal in such case.

etc., matter taken as confessed, or
43. In'case of appeal, claimant may 113“

judgment by default entered, inquiry awarded, etc., or garnishee com- ~
pelled to answer, etc.
22. Proceedings against the garnishee
continued till suit ended.—Costs of

gamishee.

bond.
44. Debtor's action on creditor’s bond45. Case in which the states 9%: “"7
attach property of debtor without

giving bond.——Proceedmgs. Sscrron 1. The real and personal property of a debtor

beirig an inhabitant of this state, may be attached for the p{1Y'
leaving

the state, or shall have left the state, with intent to defraud his
‘ 1‘ shall keep

creditors, or to avoid the service of civil process, 0 ,
himself concealed so that process cannot be served upon him»

with intent to delay or defraud his creditors, subject to the restrictions of the next two sections.‘ '

Snow. 2. No writ of attachment shall issue against any
debtor while the wife and family of such debtor shall be and
remain bona fide settled within the county where his usual
place of residence may have been prior to his absence, if such
debtor shall not continue absent from the state more than one
year after he shall have absented himself, unless an attempt
shall be made to conceal such debtor’s absence, or unless such
debtor shall be secretly transferring, conveying, or removing
his property or effects by which the payment 0 his debts may
be evaded.

Sncr. 3. If the wife or family of such debtor shall refuse
to give an account of the cause of his absence, or of the place
where he may be, or shall give a false account of either, or
shall -be’ unable to account for his absence or to tell where he
may be found, such refusal, false account, or inability to account for his absence or to tell where he may be found shall be
deemed and construed an attempt to conceal his absence within
the provisions of the last section.

Snow. 4. Such writ may be issued on the first day of the
week commonly called Sunday, and be executed on said day in
like manner as on any other day, if the creditor will show in
the affidavit hereinafter required that such debtor is about to
abscond on such day to the injury of such creditor. ,

SEc'r. 5. Before a Writ of domestic attachment shall issue
against the property of any absconding or concealed debtor as
above provided, the creditor suing out such writ, in person or
bv agent or attorney, shall make and file an affidavit with the
c erk of the proper circuit court, or before some justice of the
peace having jurisdiction, setting forth substantially so many of
the following facts and circumstances as are requisite to bring
the case within the provisions of this article:

A B, of county in the state of Indiana, does solemnly
swear (or affirm) that C D of said county, (or late of said coun_ty as the case may be) is justly indebted to him, the said A B,
111 the sum of $ , as follows, to Wit: (here set forth the
nature of the contract by reason of which such creditor has a
right to recover his debt or damages of the debtor;) and
that the said O D has left (or is about secretly to leave) the
state éor kee s himself so concealed that process cannot be
serve upon im) with intent to delay (or defraud) him, the said

A B, of his said debt (or damages,) or (with intent to avoid the
service of civil process.)T

Ss':c'r.. 6. Before a writ of attachment shall issue, the person
suing out such writ, or some person in his behalf, shall also file
with such clerk, or before such justice of the peace, a bond
with sufficient surety, to be approved by the officer with whom
the same is filed, payable to such debtor, in a penalty of double
the sum demanded, with condition for the due prosecution of
such writ of attachment, and the payment of all damages which
may be sustained by such debtor, if the proceedings of such
creditor in such writ of attachment shall be wrongful and opby the oliicer with whom it

IS filed, and delivered to such debtor when demanded.‘
. Sncr. 7. When such aliidavit and bond are properly filed
before a justice of the peace, such justice of the peace is hereby
' authorized and required to issue a writ of domestic attachment,
under his hand andseal, directed to any constable of the proper
county, commanding him to seize and take into his possession
the goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects of the
said defendant, that may be found in his county, and make return of the said writ and his proceedings thereon,.within twenty
days from the date of such writ.T i
Snow. 8. A justice of the peace shall direct writs of attach’ ment to a constable of - the township in which such justice

resides; and such constable may execute such writ on any pro- »

perty of the debtor which may be found in the county; and
alias writs of domestic attachment may be issued by such justice

asoften as found necessary.
L11 Snow. 9. The constable to whom said writ of attachment may

of the county, and on the discovery of - any goods, chattels,
rights, credits, monies, or effects of the defendant named in said
writ, shall attach and. seize the same at the suit of the laintifi‘; and, with the assistance of said householder, shall m e an
inventory of the property so attached, and the estimated value
thereof, which shall be signed by the constable and the person

assisting him, and returned with the writ; and such writ, when

*— - - - Y'|I__‘-r

;3- be directed, shall take to his assistance one credible householder .

served according to the provisions of this article, shall bind the
property attached from the time of service. .

Saar. 10. Such writ being returned executed, the justice
shall advertise the issuing of the writ, the proceedings thereon,
and the time and -place at which he will proceed to hear and decide upon the claim of such creditor; which notice shall be
publishedthree weeks successively, in some newspaper printed
in the county, or by written notices thereof set up the same
length of time in three of the most public places in the township; and if the defendant do not appear at the day set for trial,
the justice shall proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of
the plaintifff,‘ and render judgment for such sum as shall appear
to be due, and award execution thereon against the property
attached, or so much thereof as may be sullicient to satisfy the
debt and costs.

Sncr. 11. All judgments rendered under this article by any
justice of the peace, may be taken up by appeal to the circuit
court, as in other cases.

Sncr. 12.. Whenever the plaintitI"s demand shall exceed the
jurisdiction of the justice of the peace, or there‘ shall not be
sufiicient goods and chattels of the defendant to satisfy the
plaintifff’s demand, and he may wish to proceed against the
lands of the defendant, he may file his afddavit and bond, as
required in this article, in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court where the lands are situate; and it shall be the duty
of such clerk to issue a writ of domestic attachment under
the seal of the court, directed to the sheriff of the county, and
commanding him to attach the lands and tenements, and seize
and take into his possession the goods, chattels, rights, credits,
monies, and effects of the defendant, that may be found in his
county, and make return of the Writ in twenty days, together
With his proceedings thereon.

Sacr. 13. When the estate, property, or interest to be attached exists, oriis situate in different counties, or when the
debtors or bailees of such absconding debtor reside in dilferent
counties, the jurisdiction of the circuit court shall extend to
such counties, and sundry writs of attachment, and of process
against garnishees, may be issued and executed in such counties.
But no judgment shall be given against the estate, property, or
interest of the absconding debtor, or against such garnishees,
unless the writ of attachment shall have been executed on some
Pmperty, either real or personal, belonging to the absconding
debtor, situate in the county where the suit was commenced,
0l'1mless process shall have been served upon some garnishee
therein residing or found. by the oiiicer executing such process.

Sacr. 14. The sherifl‘ or other officer to whom the writ of
attachment may be directed, shall proceed, with the assistance
Of a disinterested and credible householder of the county, to at1301} the lands and tenements, goods and chattels of the debtor,
Subject to execution at the suit of the plaintifff in such writ, and
shall, with the assistance of such householder, make an inventory

Snow. 15. As soon as the writ shall have been returned executed, it shall be the duty of the clerk, to docket the cause-for
the second day of the ensuing term of the circuit court, and
forthwith make out a notice of the pendency of said wiri-t_, requiring the defendant to appear and defend, or the same will he
heard and determined in his absence; which notice the plaintifff
shall cause to be published four weeks successively in some public newspaper published in the county; or if there be no newspaper published therein, he shall cause such notice to be published

. in the paper nearest thereto; but if there be no lands attached,
and if there be no paper published in the county, it shall be
sufficient to publish the same by setting up written notices_m
three of the most public places of the county, one of which

shall be at the court house door!‘ .

,- Seer. 16. At the ensuing term of the court, if the defendant
do not appear, upon proof that publication has been made, at
least ten days before the first day of the term, the courtshall

_ proceed to hear and determine upon the claim of the plaintifff,

" and render judgment for the amount that appears to be due, and
award execution thereon against the property attached; but if
publication has not been made as required by the foregoing section, the cause shall stand continued until the next term.T

SECT. 17. After any writ or writs of attachment shall have
been issued or returned,.other writs of attachment may, at the
instance of the plaintiff, be issued by. force of the. affidavit and
bond before filed by him, at any time before the rendition of final
judgment, as often as any such writ or writs may be found necessary, to the same or any other county or counties, and shall
be executed and returned as writs issued in the first instance;

ied but whenever any such writ-shall be returned, and no proper‘
or effects shall have been attached thereby, the plaintili Sh

iiy pay the costs of such writ. \
‘- Snow. 18. Whenever any creditor, or his agent or attorney»

on shall make and file an aiiidavit with the justice or clerk issuing
e. such attachment, that he has good reason to believe that art)’

erson, naming such person, has property of any description in
is possession or control belonging -to the attachment defendants
which the oiiicer ‘cannot attach by virtue of such Writ} °1'
that such person is indebted to the defendant by decree, 11158’
merit, bond, bill, note, account, or contract, or has the co _

or agency of any such property, decree, judgments b°ndv ‘u
note, account, or contract, it shall be the duty of the clerk-of

7

justice to issue‘ his summons to such person as garnishee, notifying him to appear within five days, if issued by a justice of
the peace, or at the ensuing term, if issued by a clerk of a circuit court, there to answer, under oath or affirmation, all questions that shall he put to him touching the rights, property,
decrees, judgments, bonds, bills, notes, accounts, contracts, or
credits of the defendant, in his hands, or within his knowledge,
agency, or control‘; and such summons, with a copy of the original writ of attachment, and of the affidavit against the said garnishee, shall be served by leaving them with such garnishee, or
at his usual place of residence.

Snow. 19. From the day of such service such garnishee shall
stand and be accountable to the plaintifff in attachment for the
amount of the money, property,‘ or credits in his hands, or due
and owing from him to the defendant in the attachment.”

Saar. 20. Whenever any garnishee in any proceeding in
domestic or foreign attachment, fails to plead, answer, or demur
to the matters set forth against him in the aiiidavit or any additional bill, statement, or interrogatories, or fails to appear and make }
discovery as required by law, such matters maybe taken for con- '
fessed, or judgment by default or nil dicit, entered as the case may .
require ; and a writ of inquiry may be awarded when necessary, ‘
and all other proceedings necessary to final judgment may be had
therein; or the court may compel such garnishee to answer as {
aforesaid; and in either case such pleading and process shall be had :
thereon, according to the practice in law or equity, as the case 
may require, before the court or justice‘ where the same may
be pending: but no other or further special pleading shall be
necessary in any proceeding in attachment before .a justice of
the peace, than is now required in other cases.

Snow. 21. Proceedings may be had against the garnishee in .
all cases where the writ of attachment is returned “ no pro-<
perty found,” in like manner as if property of the debtor had‘
been attached by virtue of such writ.

Sscr. 22. The proceedings instituted against such garnishee 1
shall be continued, without any final judgment therein, until:
the action against the defendant in attachment be determined; }
am! If in such suit against the defendant or the garnishee, the
Plaintiff be non-suited, the cause discontinued, or judgment be
rendered against such plaintifff, the garnishee shall be discharged 1
and shall recover his costs. , '

Sncr. 23. If the plaintifff recover judgment against the de-]
fendant in attachment, and the garnishee shall deliver up to:
the‘ sheriff or constable, before judgment had ‘against him, or‘
shall produce and deliver an inventory of all the goods and
chattels or other effects in his possession, and shall pay to such
officer, or to the justice, or into court, all monies due from him,
01' belonging, to the said defendant, then the costs which shall
have accrued on such proceedings against such garnishee, shall
be paid out of the proceeds of the property attached, and belonging to the defendant: but if the garnishee shall not appear,
ers alleged,

or if appearin
and on trial the plaintifff shall recover judgment against hi
' e

if he admit that he has monies,

the defendant, in his hands, _ _
liver the same, as above in this section p
costs; but no garnishee shall in any case

to perform any contract or duty to or fo
or manner, or at any other time,

tachment, in any other way
than he would be lawfully bound to do for the defendant in attachment.

Snow. 24. If any plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, will make
oath or affirmation before the clerk or justice issuing the writ of
attachment, that he is afraid that said garnishee will abscond

before judgment can be had, and that he verily believes that
such garnishee has monies, things in action, goods, chattels, or

effects of the said defendant in his possession, or is indebted to
the said defendant, such clerk or justice shall issue a capias ad
respondendum against the said garnishee, and hold him to bail

thereon, as in a civil action. ~ _
,,3 SECT. ‘.25. Each and every creditor of the defendant, upon

3 making and filing his affidavit and bond,
g the attaching creditor, may, at any time before the final adjustment of the suit, be permitted to file and prove his claim or
m demand against the defendant, and may also

“* summoned as a garnishee, or held to bail as aforesai , wh
not before been summoned or held to bail, and may propolmd

interrogatories to garnishees, and enforce answers thereto, as

may be done by the creditor who is the plainti1i'."‘
.it- SECT. 26. If, upon trial before a justice the
the justice’s juris2*‘ sum proved by any one cre

;',°tt diction, such justice shall forthwith certify an _
im and belonging to

{wit ceedings, with all the papers fil
the cause, to the clerk of the circuit cou

who shall file the same, and docket the cause
next term; and the court shall proceed therein in the same manner as if the writ had originally issued from said court. _

Sncr. 27. All writs of attachment issue _
s under attachment issued by a ]uSt{°'f

Y

 shall supersede proceeding
us“. of the peace, undetermined at the time o .
gate and the officer executing the Writ issued by the circuit courts
.,_ may take into his possession any prope

ant attached by a constable under a writ
sheriff. peace; and upon his taking such property in
shall be his duty to serve the justice with a cop

issued by the court; an
the clerk of the said court a certified copy of his proc

to his possession, it
y of the writ

and the original papers filed before him appertaining to the
cause. '

Snow. 28. The circuit court shall proceed to the final adjudi- ~
cation of the several claims filed before the justice and proceed- ,
ings against garnishees, inithe same manner as if they had been i
originally filed in said court, and tax up the legal costs that
accrued‘ before said justice, which shall be paid as the other
costs are paid; and the constable shall be released from all liability when the proper.ty is taken from his possession as aforesaid by virtue of a writ of attachment from the circuit court.

S1-zcr. 29. If the plaintifff or creditors shall make sufficient
proof of the debts due him or them from such defendant, and
alsopof the goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects,
in the possession of the garnishees, the court or justice shall
proceed to give judgment thereon in favor of the plaintifff or
creditors, either against the garnishee or the property and effects
of the defendant, or both, as the case may require. a

Snow. 30. Whenever judgment is rendered against a garnishee, execution shall issue thereon, as in the case of other judgments, and where jud ment is renderedagainst the property
attached, the same shal be sold by virtue of a Writ of venditioni
exponas issued by order of the court or justice on such judgment; and as the money is realized, the same, under the order
and direction of the court or justice, after paying all costs and
charges, shall be paid to the several creditors in proportion to
the amount of their several claims as adjusted. "

Sncr. 31. In all cases arisin under the provisions of this
article, the usual fees shall be al owed, taxed, and paid out of
the proceeds arising from the sale of the property attached or
recovered from the garnishees; and whenever such proceeds
are insufficient to pay and satisfy the le al costs of . the proceedmgs in attachment, such costs, or the ba ance remaining unpaid,
shall be paid by the plaintifff and other attaching creditors, in
proportion to theirseveral demands, as adjusted by the court or
justice as aforesaid.

Snow. 32. In all proceedin s in domestic attachment, the
court or justice may make, en orce, and cause all proper interlocutory and final orders and judgments to be executed as effectually as in other proceedings in law or equity, and in such

manner as the case may require, not inconsistent with the proVISIOIIS of law.

Po
d.

i

d. . . . . . .
action specified in the plaintili”s affidavit, or

III)

on

Snow. 33. Stay of execution on judgments rendered under
the provisions of this article, shall be had, subject to the same
provisions of law as in cases of other judgments.
Such debtor may have his property, or any part
thereof, which may have béen attached, released and delivered
' ' it, on his executing and delivering to the
a bond, payable to the state of
t double‘ the value of such proto be taken and approved by such
and with condition for the proper care and keeping of
and for its re-delivery on demand, or so much

be required to be sold on execution on the judgbe recovered against him in such

perty, with sufiicient surety,
officer,
such property,
thereof as may

ment or judgments which may

proceedings in attachment.
Snow. 35. The officer taking such bond shall file the same in
the court, or with the justice before whom such writ of attachment is pending. SE01‘. 36. In case of a forfeiture of any of the conditions of
the bond, the creditors, jointly, or any one or more of them,
may maintain an action thereon, in the name of the state of
Indiana, on their relation, and may recover judgment for the
damages sustained, not to exceed the amount of the original
judgment and costs thereon, nor the value of. such property,
and also ten per centum damages on the amount thus recovered.
Snow. 37. The attachment debtor may appear and plead to
such writ, and defend against the same and all claims filed under
such Writ, as of course, without filing bond, in like manner as if

suit had been commenced by summons or capias on the cause of
such ci'editor‘s

‘or pleadino shall operate to _disbond be filed as required
or judgment be rendered

claim ; but no such appearance
charge the property attached, unless
in the foregoing thirty-fourth section,
in favor of such debtor.

Saar. 38. No more shall be recovered in an action on any
recognizance or bond given according to the requirements of
the twenty-fourth and thirty-fourth sections of this chapter than
the true cash value of the defendant’s interest in the lands:
tenements, goods and chattels, rights, credits, monies, and"
eflectsa Which may have been attached, and liable to be applied
to the benefit and use of the creditor or creditors in'said writ of
attachment.

SE01‘. 39. ‘If goods be attached in the hands of a consignee,
he shall have a lien on such goods for any debt due to him from
the consignor, in preference to any plaintifff or creditor.

SEc'r._40. Whenever any person other than the defendant
may claim. any pe_rsonal property, attached under the provisions
of this article, the officer attaching the same shall, previous t0
any further proceeding on such Writ, cause the right of p1'0P81'lY
to be tried, as in ‘cases of property taken in execution, and the
officer shall give such claimant reasonable time to procure teSi|'
mony to substantiate his said claim.

Sscr. 4]. If the right of property be found in such claimant, the officer shall forthwith release from his custody such
property, and the plaintifff shall pay the costs of such trial; but
if the right of property be found in the defendant in such writ
of attachment, the claimant shall pay the costs; and it shall be
the duty of the justice who issued the attachment, or of the
circuit court before which the writ is returnable, to tax such
costs.

Sncr. 42. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the court,
or justice of the peace, or of the jury deciding any case specified in the last two preceding sections, may appeal therefrom,
or prosecute a writ of error, as the case may require, as in
other actions.

Snow. 43. In all cases where such appeal shall be taken, the
person or persons claiming such property, and in whose possession it may be, shall be at liberty, upon giving bond and sufficient surety in a reasonable sum, to be approved by the oliicer
serving the attachment, to hold such property until such appeal
shall be determined; and on failure to deliver such property,
agreeably to the true intent and meaning of such bond, the said
bond may be put in suit by the plaintifff in attachment, who
shall recover thereon all damages by him sustained.

Sscr. 44. Every attachment-defendant aggrieved by the
issuing of any writ of domestic attachment, or by the proceedings in the case of any claim filed under such writ, shall be entitled to an action on the bond of any creditor, filed as herein
provided, by whom he shall have been aggrieved or injured; and
if it appear that the proceedings had by any such creditor
against the defendant were wrongful and oppressive, such defendant shall recover damages at the discretion of the jury.*

Seer. 45. In all suits 111 the name and for the use of the
state of Indiana, or in the name of any officer, or of any person astrustee of the state, and for the use of the state, if the
process issued be returned that any defendant in such process
is not found, the attorney prosecuting any such suit, if he deem
It advisable, may have a writ of domestic attachment issued
against the goods, chattels,lands, and tenements, rights, credits,
and‘ effects of such absent defendant, to answer the demand for
yvhich such suit is brought, without making any affidavit or giv}ng and filing any bond; and such writ of attachment when so
issued shall be served and prosecuted to final judgment, accordmg to the provisions of this article. '

ARTICLE II.

Of the proceedings in foreign attachment.

 ION ~ Sr-zcnon

46. Property liable to foreign attachment. 56. Garnishee.

47. Jurisdiction of circuit court—sun- 57. Justices’ jurisdiction.
dry writs may issue. 58. Duties of justice—constable.

48. Liability of partners, joint owners, 59. Proceedings before justices.
etc.—non-resident heirs, executors, 60. Continued six months by justice.
etc. \ A 61. If debtor appear, justice to notify cre49. Aliidavit of claim—bond. . ditor.
50. Service of writ. ‘ 62. Debtor’s property released on liling
bond, etc.

51. Pendency of writ published.
52. Cause continued-how claims adjus
53. Property expensive to keep or per

able may be sold.
54. Other creditors may file claims. , , ceedings therein.
55. Creditor, before receiving amount of 65. Suit on debtor's bond.

his claim, shall give bond to answer
suit brought within twelve months.

ted. 63. Appealfrom decision of justice.
ish- 64. Ifclaim exceed $100, justice shall
file papers in circuit court.-ProSnow. 46. The lands, tenements, hereditaments,-goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects of any and all persons
‘dents of this state, are and shall be’ liable for the paynot resi _ _
her demands, by suit to be instituted by proment of debts or ot _
cess of foreign attachment, ‘to be issued from the circuit court

having jurisdiction of the subject matter." »

Seer. 47. When the estate, property, or interest to be

‘attached, exists or is situate in different counties, the jurisdiction_of the circuit court shall extend to such counties, and sundry writs may be issued to and executed in such counties, and

alias Writs may Issue to the same or other counties.
Snow. 48. The joint and several estates, pro

interest of joint owners, either as partners or

shall be liable as aforesaid by suit against all or any of them

who may be indebted, by their proper names, or the names by

which they may be known and reputed, or by the partnership

name or style; and the estates, property, and interest whibtzeh

may have descended to non-resident heirs or devisees, or

3 come vested in the non-resident executor or administrator of

decedents, shall be liable in like manner for debts or other 8mands against said decedent’s estates; but the propert , estate:
or interest of any one or more joint owners who shalnot be
indebted, shall not be affected by the proceedings authorized by
this article against joint owners who may be indebted.T

- 1-1.0

|

Snow. 49. Writs of foreign attachment shall be made
returnable to the first day of the next term of the court; but
before any writ shall issue, the nature of the debt or demand,
and the sum claimed‘ shall be proved by oath or affirmation to
be justly due and owing, and that the defendant, whether the
original debtor or whether sued in a representative capacity, is
not, as the person making the oath or affirmation verily belie‘ves, at the time a resident of this state; and bond shall be
given as in cases of domestic attachment, with surety to be approvedof by the clerk of the court issuing the writ; and said
opth or affirmation and bond shall be filed in the office of such
c erk."‘

Sncr. 50. The officer serving such Writ shall proceed in the
same manner, and be subject to the same responsibilities as are
prescribed in cases of domestic attachment.

Snow. 51. Within twenty days after" the return day of the
writ, if such writ be returned executed, the clerk shall make
out a notice of the pendency of such writ; which notice shall
be forthwith published for three weeks successively in a newspaper printed in the county in which such suit shall be pending
or if no newspaper be there published, then in the county most
convenient thereto; and roof of such publication shall be
made at the next term of t e court.

SE01‘. 52. Such suit shall be continued from such next term
until the next following term before the court shall proceed to
adjudicate thereon, and their proceedings in such adjudication
to final judgment, shall then be similar in all respects to the
proceedings in domestic attachment," except where otherwise
herein directed.T ‘ ’

Sncr. 53. The court may direct the sale of personal prop_e1'ty of a perishable nature, or the keeping of which is expensive, seized under such writ of attachment, to be made by the
Sheriff at public auction upon reasonable notice, and the money
arising from such’ sale shall be deposited with the clerk, subject
to the order of the court upon final jud ment; and in all cases
where any property is attached that is iable to immediate damage, it shall be lawful for the officer attaching the same to
make sale thereof, by giving ten days’ notice, and he shall deposite the proceeds with the clerk as aforesaid. .
' Sncr. 54. Creditors other than the plaintifff shall be permitted to file and prove their claims by filing the affidavit and
bond as required in this article to be done by the creditor suing
out the writ in the first instance.

‘ Seer. 55. No creditor or plaintifff who may have prosecuted a claim under the provisions of this article and obtained
judgment therefore in the absence of the defendant, shall receive

1 the amount of such judgment or any share thereof, until he first

, give bond with surety to be approved of by the court or clerk,

. in double the value to be received, payable to the defendant,
conditioned that the creditor receiving the same shall appear
and answer to any suit which such defendant. may bring against
him within twelve months thence next ensuing, and to pay such
defendant all sums of money which, on trial to be had thereon,

shall appear to have been received by such creditor, and which

was not justly due and owing to him, together with all interest

and costs of suit.

Seer. 56. It shall be lawful for any plaintifff in foreign attachment, or creditor of the defendant, to summon as garnishee
rights, credits,

any person wholmay have any goods, chattels,
monies, or effects in his hands belonging to such absent defendant, or to the estate on account of which he is sued"; or to
summon any person who may be indebted in any manner whatsoever to such absent defendant, or to the estateton account of
which he is sued, in the same’ manner and subject to the same
rules_ and restrictions as are prescribed in proceedings by 0mestic attachment, and the parties and the court shall he governed by like rules in all respects where the same are not
repugnant to this article. i t A
'is- Sncr. 57. Justices of the peace shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit courts in all cases of foreign attachment
where no real property shall be attached and where the plaintil’f"s demand shall not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars.‘
Sncr. 58. In all cases instituted before justices of the peace
under" the provisions of this article-, the powers, authority, incidents, and duties appertaining and belonging to clerks an circult courts by the provisions of this article, shall appertain and
belpng to such justices of the peace; and the powers, a '
mcldentsa and duties appertaining to sheriffs and coroners, by
the provisions of this article, shall appertain to the constablg
ue

whose duty it may be to serve civil process in other cases 188

b)’ lusi-.1088 of the peace, subject to the provisions of this a_rticle.{
ces o

,3 Sncr. 59. All cases of foreign attachment before justi
tice8- the peace shall be governed by and subject to the provisions
prescribed for such cases in circuit courts, so far as the Same
are applicable, and not repugnant to the provisions of this article.

Sr.c'r. 60. After publication, made by order of the justice, as is
required in proceedings under this article in a circuit court, each
cause of foreign attachment shall, before the justice shall proceed to final judgment, be continued for not less than six months,
nor more than seven months. ,

SEc'r. 61. On the. appearance and application of the defendant at any time before final judgment, the justice shall cause
the plaintifff or plaintifffs, claimant or claimants, his or their agent
or attorney, if -to be found within the county, to have at least
three days’ notice of the day of trial, on which day, unless good
cause of continuance be shown, as provided in other cases before justices of the peace, such justice shall proceed to try said
cause and to render jud ment as in other civil cases before him.

S1-:c'r. 62. If such de endant or defendants, or any other person in his or their behalf, shall, at any time before final jud ment,
enter into bond with good surety, to be approved of by t e justice, payable to the state of Indiana, in double the amount of
the claims filed, conditioned for delivering in execution the property attached in as good plight as it may then he, should said
judgment be rendered against him or them, then such property
shall be re-delivered to the defendant or defendants, or other
person, as the case may be. '

Srzcr. 63. An appeal shall lie from any judgment rendered
by ‘a justice under this article, in the time and manner provided
in other actions, and the appeal bond shall be payable to the
state of Indiana.

‘Saar. 64. Whenever any claim filed shall exceed the sum
of one hundred dollars, or whenever the plaintifff may wish to
attach real property of the defendant or defendants, the justice
shall file a transcript of his proceedings with the clerk of the
circuit court of his county, and the same proceedings shall be
thereupon had as if the cause had been originally commenced
1!} such court, and further proceedings thereon before said justice shall be stayed, and any roperty which may have been
attached by any constable, sh I be delivered on the writ of attachment issued by the clerk of the circuit court.

. Sr-zcr. 65. Separate suits may be brought on any bond mentioned in this article, in the name of the state of Indiana, for
t.h°_ use of any person or persons entitled to any demand or
claim filed or sued for, in the cause in which said bond was filed.

 

CHAPTER 42.

OF ENFORCING THE LIENS OF MECHANICS AND OTHERS IN
CERTAIN CASES.

Anricm-: 1. Of the liens of mechanics and others on buildings.

ARTICLE 2. Of liens upon boats and other vessels for construction, repairs. and
supplies.

AR1‘Icm-: 3. Of liens of artizans, mechanics, tradesmen, and bailees, in certain cases.

ARTICLE 1.

Of the liens of ‘mechanics and others on buildings.

SECTION I A SECTION

1. Mechanics, 8w. may have lien. 10. Trial, continuance, filing answers,
2. Lien enforced only against the owner. &c. after a default.

3. Remedy of sub-contractor, doc. 11. Proof of claims, when made.

4. Set-oi? in favor of owner, &.c. 12. Issue and jury: sale decreed: pay5. Notice of lien to be recorded. ment of claims.

6. How lien enforced. 13. Interest.

7. Who may join in the bill. 14. Surplus paid to owner.

8. Answers, how and when filed. 15. Defendant may release his property
9. Cross bill not necessary. by giving bond, &c.

SECTION 1. Carpenters, joiners, brick and stone masons,
plasterers, tumers, painters, brick makers, lumber merchants,
and all others performing labor, or furnishing materials for the
construction or repair of any building, shall and may have a lien
separately or jointly upon the building or buildings which they
may have constructed or repaired, or_for which they may have
furnished materials of any description, to the extent of the
value of any labor done, or materials furnished, or for both,
where the amount shall exceed thirty dollars.

Snow. 2. The provisions of this article shall only extend to
work done or materials furnished on new buildings, or to a contract entered into with the owner of any building for repairs,
and not to any contract made with the tenant.

SECT. 3. Any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer, who
may be employed in the construction or repairing of any building, or in furnishing any materials for the same, may give to the
owner or owners of the building or buildin s on which he may
have worked, notice in writing, particular y setting forth the
amount of his claim, and the service rendered for which his
employer is indebted to him, and that he holds said owner responsible for the same; and the owner of the building 18 herebi’
made liable for the amount so claimed, if indebted to the en!ployer to the amount; if not, then to the amount due from him
to said employer at the time such notice was served, which ma)’
be recovered in an action of assumpsit.

Snow. 4. When any laborer, journeyman, or sub-contractor
shall acquire any such lien, the same may be set off by the
owner of the building, or other person liable for the pay_ment.o{
the erection or repair thereof in any action brought against him
by the person who otherwise is entitled to recover the same
under the contract. .

Saar. 5. Any person wishing to avail himself of the pI'0V1'
sions of this article, whether his claim be due or not, shall file
in the reeorder’s oiiice of the county, at any time be_f0{9 the
expiration of sixty days after the completion of the building 9’
repairs in this article specified, notice of his intention to hold 3
lien upon the property declared by this article liable to -‘I10

lien, for the amount due or to become due to him, specifically .
setting forth the amount claimed; and the recorder is hereby '
required to record such notice as soon as presented, for which
he shall be entitled to receive twenty-five cents.

Snow. 6. Any person or persons having a lien under this ar- 1
ticle, may enforce the same by filing a bill in chancery in the 1
circuit court of ' the county where the’ work was done, or materials furnished, at any time within one year from the completion of the Work, or furnishing the materials, or if a credit be
given, from the expiration. of such credit.

SE01‘. 7. All the persons having a lien, may join in the bill j
against the employer, or one or more of them may file a bill‘
against the employer, or one or more of them may file a bill
against the employer and the other persons having a lien; each
claim shall be clearly and distinctly stated, and as clear and.
distinct an answer shall be made to the same.

Sacr. 8. Immediately on the service of process in any suit .
instituted under the provisions of this article, any defendant or ‘
defendants shall have the right to file with the clerk of the
county where suit has been instituted, his or their answer under
oath; and the clerk shall endorse thereon the time of filing the
same, and ten days shall be allowed the defendant or defendants
to file their answers after the service of process.

Sncr. 9. It shall not be necessary for a defendant claiming
a lien or relief against any complainant or co-defendant to
make his answer a cross bill against the complainant or any codefendants; but the assertion of his claim and lien in his answer,
with a prayer for the appropriate or general relief, shall be sufficient to authorize the court to enter the proper decree for
relief against any of the complainants or defendants.

Snow. 10. If process has been served ten days, the cause
shall stand for trial at the first term thereafter; if not, then at
the first subsequent term, unless the parties agree to go into
trial at the previous term. The court may, for good cause
shown, permit a continuance of any or all the claims in controversy, and the defendant or defendants, after default, may file
his or their answers, at any time before the trial of the cause,
on such terms as the court may deem equitable.

Sncr. 11. Any person claiming a lien, at any term after
process shall. have been served ten days on the person whose
property is liable to such lien, may proceed to the proof of his
claim; and if such person be a defendant to the bill in such
Case, he may proceed to such proof immediately on filing his
answer, if process have been served ten days before the term,
as above required.

‘SE01’. 12. The court, on application of either party, may
direct an issue to be made, and a jury called to try the same,
as 111 cases at law; and when the claims of the parties entitled
to recover shall be ascertained, the court shall render a decree
f0_1‘ the amount of each claim, respectively, against the owner
of the building, and direct the house, and interest of the employer in the lot, to be sold on a credit of .not exceeding six
months, the payments to be made in such instalments as the
court may direct, taking into consideration the interests of the
parties; and the officer collecting the proceeds of such sale
shall pay over the same to the persons entitled thereto, respectively, under the direction and order of the court.

Snow. 13. The amount due the claimants shall bear legal interest from the time the same shall have become due by the
contract of the parties, and the purchaser of. the property shall
pay interest on the purchase money from the time of the sale.

Sszcr. 14. The court, after all the claimants have been paid,
shall direct the surplus, if any, to be paid over to the owner of
the property; and should the proceeds of the sale be insufficient
to pay all the claimants, then the court shall order them to be
paid in proportion to the amount respectively due to each.

SECT. 15. In all roceedings commenced under this article,
the defendant may Ii e a bond, with suret to be approved by
the court, conditioned for the payment 0 the amount which
may be found due, in payments, the longest of which shall not
exceed six months, as the court may order, and release his property from'the lien hereby created. '

ARTICLE II.

Of liens upon boats and other vessels for construction, repairs,
and supplies.

SECTION SECTION

16. Lien on boats and vessels. 22. Process, how served in certain cases.
17- Attachment 23. Lien of laborers,&c., if enforced» 9113“
18. Creditors may join, &c.; judgment be a set-off, &c.

and execution. 24. Penalty for resisting service of St’
19. Justice may certify cause to circuit , tachment.

court if demand exceed his jurisdic- 25. Action for penalty.

tion. 26. Boatmen and mariners.
20. Boat or vessel released if bond be 27. If freight not delivered. 5%» °“'"‘f'

glV§Ds 560- or consignee may proceed u!ldel'll1l3
21. Lien in case of articles furnished after article.

vessel has started on her voyage, &.c.

_Sii:cr. I6. Boats and vessels of all descriptions, built, T9‘
paired, or equipped within the jurisdiction of this state, a_I1.d '3”
beats and other vessels built, repaired, or equipped by citizens
of this state, without the jurisdiction thereof, which shall afterwards come within such jurisdiction, shall be liable for all debts
contracted by the master, owner, or consignee thereof, on account of work done and supplies or materials furnished by tradesmen, mechanics, or others, for, on account of, or towards the
building, repairing, fitting, furnishing, or equipping such boats 9?
vessels; and the debts so contracted shall be a lien on such b03l9

or vessels, their tackle, apparel, and furniture; and shall have
preference to any and all debts due from the owners, masters,
orconsignees thereof, except mariners’ and boatmen’s wages.

Snow. 17. If the person having such demand against such
boat or vessel, shall file a statement of his claim, annexing
thereto an affidavit that such claim is justly due and owing,
with any justice of the peace of any county in which such
boat may be, if such demand do not exceed one hundred dollars, or with the clerk of the circuit court of such county, he
may have a warrant of attachment issued by such justice or
clerk, directing the seizure and detention of such boat or vessel,
and the tackle, apparel, and furniture thereof, by the sheriff or
constable to whom such writ may be directed, until the final
determination of the proceedings under such attachment, and
until payment be made of such demand, if judgment be rendered
in favor of such claimant; and such attachment shall be returned
before such justice, or to the office of such clerk, forthwith after
the service thereof.

Seer. 18. Upon the return of such warrant, all or.any of
the persons having demands of the decription before mentioned,
may join in a declaration against such boat or vessel, briefly
setting forth their demands for work done or materials furnished,
and whether at the request of the owner, master, or consignee
of such boat or vessel, and averring demand and refusal of payment, to which declaration shall be annexed the particulars of
the demand; and proceedings shall be had and judgment rendered as in other cases; and upon such judgment execution
may issue, and such boat or vessel, and tackle, apparel, and furniture, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, may be sold
under such execution."‘

Snow. 19. If in any case all the demands exhibited before
any justice of the peace upon any such warrant returned before
him, shall exceed the extent of his jurisdiction, he shall certify
the proceedings to the circuit court of his county, where the
same shall be conducted as if originally commenced in said
court.

Snow. 20. If the master, owner, or consignee shall, before
final judgment, give bond and surety to be approved of by the
clerk or justice who may have issued such warrant, conditioned
to satisfy and pay all the demands pendingagainst such boat or
vessel, which shall be adjudged to be due and owing, on the determination of such cause, or if he then‘ pay the said demands,
together with the costs of the proceedings, such boat or vessel
shall thereupon be discharged from such arrest. and detention.

Snow. 21. After a boat or vessel of any description shall
have started on her voyage, if any person shall sell to the cap- !
tam, commandant, master, consignee, or any officer of said boat 1
or vessel, materials for her repair or equipment, or wood or coal '
for fuel, or provisions to be made use of by the crew or pas-'

— Sengers during said voyage, or any articles not being freight or

cargo, and which are designed merely to enable said boat or

‘vessel to prosecute her voyage from port to port, said person

makin affidavit of the truth and justice of his demand, shall
have e same remedy and obtain judgment and have execution
in the same manner as above provided by the provisions of this
article.

Snow. 22. It shall not be necessary to serve the process

‘ upon the officer or consignee 'with whom the contract was

made, in order to obtain judgment, in cases arising under this
article, if due diligence has been used by the officer having the
process, to execute the same on such officer or consignee, without being able to effect it; but in such case, service upon the
clerk, or any other officer of said boat if said clerk cannot be
found, or in case that cannot be done, service by a cop left or
affixed in some place in said boat or vessel, easy to e seen,
shall be sufficient service to authorize judgment.

S1-:cr. 23. When any person having a lien upon any boat or
vessel is a journeyman, laborerer, or sub-contractor, and he shall

_ enforce his lien and recover therefore, such recovery shall bar

and discharge so much of the lien which any person employing
such laborer, journeyman, or sub-contractor might otherwise
have had on such boat or vessel.

SI-:c'r. 24. If any person shall prevent, resist, or obstruct the

i execution of any process contemplated by the provisions of this
' article, or shall prevent, obstruct, or resist any process which

may be served or attempted to be served on any boat or vessel,
or water craft, or any officer or persons who may be aboard
such boat, vessel, or water craft, said person shall be liable in
an action of debt to any person who will sue for the same in
one year from the time such cause of action shall accrue.

Saar. 25. Such action may be brought before any justice
of the peace in any township and county in the state where
the person or persons so offending may be found; and the person who shall thus sue shall not recover less, if judgment be obtained in his favor, before a justice of the peace, than ten dollars
nor more than one hundred dollars; and if he sue in the ctrcuit court, not less than ten dollars nor more than five hundred
dollars, together with costs of suit.

Szecrr. 26. Boatmen and mariners, for their wages, may _P1'0'
ceed under the provisions of this article, and shall be entitled
to all the benefits thereof. ‘ _

Sncr. 27. Whenever any steamboat or other vessel, h"-""13
on board freight to be delivered at any landing place in th18
state, shall attempt to pass the place of delivery without delivering such freight, the owner or consignee thereof may Sue 0"‘
an attachment against said steamboat or other vessel, and compel the delivery of said freight; or in case of passing said p0_1't
of destination in the night, and failing to give notice to Said
owners or consignees to receive said freight, and waiting a
reasonable time for the delivering of the same, such attem I01‘
failure shall be taken and deemed to be a debt against said out,

her captain and owners, and be placed upon the same footin A
with the debts specified in the first section of this article, an '
the value of said freight at the place of delivery, and reasonable

damages to the owner or owners, may be recovered as in this
article above provided.

ARTICLE III.

Of liens of artisans, mechanics, tradesmen, and bailees, in
certain cases.
3BC'1‘I0N SECTION

28. Lien of artizan, &c. in case of failure 33. Same shall be loaned, &.c.
to pay, &c., how enforced: may 34. Lien in case of bailee, keeper, &c.,

sell, &.c. how satisfied.
29. Same in case of repairs. 35. As to cattle, hogs, &c.
30. Sale to be by auction. 36. Additional compensation in such
31. Notice of sale. cases, how paid.
32. Surplus paid into county treasury if 37. Copies of notice, &.c. verified by oath,
owner absent. . to be filed: effect in evidence.

_ SECT. 28. Whenever any person shall leave with or put
into the hands of any mechanic, artizan, or tradesman, any materials or articles to make or construct, in whole or in part, any
article of furniture or jewelry, or implement, utensil, clothing,
or other article of value, such mechanic or artizan if the same
be not taken away, and his fair and reasonable charges paid,

. shall have the power, after one year from the completion

thereof, and such charges have been due and payable for that
length of time, to sell and dispose of the same; or if the same
be susceptible of division, without deterioration or injury, to
sell and dispose of so much thereof as may be necessary to pay
his charges for his labor and skill employed thereon, and for any
materials which he may have furnished in the making and construction thereof. * l

Seer. 29. When any person shall leave or deposit with any
mechanic, artizan, or tradesman, any watch, clock, article of
furniture or jewelry, or any implement, utensil, or clothing, or
other article of value, to be altered, fitted, or repaired, and shall
fail or refuse for one whole year from the time the work to be
done thereon shall have been completed, to pay the fair and
reasonable charges therefore, such mechanic, artizan, or tradesman, may sell and dispose of the same, or so much thereof as
can be sold without injury, to defray such charges.

Si:~:c'r. 30. Such mechanic, artizan, or tradesman, shall make
such sale at public auction, to the highest and best bidder therefore, for cash, or on such reasonable credit as may be deemed

advisable, taking sufficient sureties in case of a sale on time as
will secure the payment of the purchase money.

L

if

led.

Snow. 31. Before making such sale, he shall give public
notice of the time and place thereof, by publishing the same in

some public newspaper or if there be no

such paper, by advertisements set up for ten days in three of
the most public places in the city or township where such mechanic, artizan, or tradesman resides, one of which shall be in
some conspicuous part of his shop,

SE61‘. 3?. When such article or articles shall be sold as
aforesaid, so much of the proceeds of such sale as remain after
the payment of the charges for such alterations and repairs, and

O 0

for the publication and notice as aforesaid, if the owner be absent, shall be dep ' f the
proper county by '

the treasurer’s receipt therefore. 4
Seer. 33. Said sum shall remain subject to be drawn for by

the person legally entitled thereto: if, however, one year shall
elapse before such person or persons shall make demand therefore of such treasurer, such treasurer shall loan the same out at
a rate of interest of not less than six er cent. per annum, upon
good security, the interest thereof to applied to the use and

benefit of the county library of the proper county.

Seer. 34_. The provisions of this article, except as provided
in the next section, shall apply to all cases of personal property
on which the bailee or keeper thereof has by law a lien for any
feed, keeping, or care by him bestowed on such property, except in_cases where the person liable shall have died before the

expiration of one year fromthe time such charges had accrued,

in which case such sale shall not be made until the expiration

of six months from the time of his decease.
SEc'r. 35. In the cases embraced in the last preceding section, if the property bailed or kept be horses, cattle, hogs, or

other live stock, and in all cases embraced in the provisions of _

this article, where the property is of a perishable nature, and
Will be greatly injured bv delay, the person to Whom Such
charges may be due may, after the expiration of thirty days from
the time when such charges shall have become due, proceed to
sell and dispose of such property, or so much thereof as may
be necessary, as hereinbefore provided. _

Seer. 36. If any additional compensation for the keeping
and taking care of such property has been necessarily incurred:
the same shall be taken from the proceeds of the sale thereof,
as a part of the charges to which such bailee is entitled. _

Sizer. 37. Attested copies of the notices required by this
article, and of the publication thereof, and an atiidavit of the
mechanic, artizan, tradesman, or bailee, t
witness on his behalf, setting forth his claim,
kept in the clerk’s office of the county
made; and the same, or copies thereof, attested and sealed by
such clerk, shall be received as testimony in the courts of th_13
state, and shall be presumptive evidence of the matters therein
contained.

CHAPTER 43.

0
OF PROCEEDINGS TO TRY THE RIGHT OF PROPERTY TAKEN IN

EXECUTION.
Sncrrox SECTION
1. Who may assert claim to property dollars, party calling jury to pay
taken in execution; statement of jury costs.
claim; affidavit. 9. Appeal.
2. Claimant may file bond for release of 10. Appeal, how tried—value of property
property, etc.—condition of bond. shall beassessed. ,
3. Property, when to be delivered to 11. Property not delivered to claimant in
claimant. certain cases until time for appeal
4. Justice to docket cause-—notice to shall have elapsed.
execution plaintifff and officer of 12. Circuit court to adjudge five per cent.
trial—time of trial-—execution sus- on appeal, etc.
pended. 13. Appeal to supreme court—ten per
5. Change of venue—continuances— cent. damages i11 supreme court.
judgment, etc. 14. Interest of partners, etc.
6. Cause of action—amendrnents—de- 15. Effect of judgment.
fence, etc. 16. Trial of right of property in case of
7. Justice or jury may try cause_—jurors foreign and domestic attachment.
how summoned. _ 17. Measure of damages on bond.
8 Jury of twelve shall find value of 18. Action on bond in case of several
property, and if less than twenty execution plaintifffs.

Sscrron 1. Whenever one or more executions shall be
levied on any personal property of any person other than the
execution defendant, such person, his agent, or attorney may
file with any justice of the peace of the township in which
such property shall have been levied upon, a claim in writing
stating that such person is the owner absolutely, or by mortgage or pledge, by deed or parol, of such property, specifying
the several articles thereof, and that the same is so taken in
execution; which statement shall be verified by oath or affirmation appended to such statement, to be true as the afiiant verily
believes.‘

S_1a:cr. 2. Said claimant, his agent, or attorney, on filing such
claim, or at any time before the final decision thereof, may file
a bond in a penalty of double the value of the property claimed
but not to exceed double the amount, including costs, due on
such execution, with surety to be approved by the justice, and
conditioned that such claim shall be well and truly prosecuted
to effect, or in default thereof, that such property, or so much
thereof as may be finally decided to be subject to such execution, shall be delivered to the person entitled to receive the
same, Without demand thereof, in as good condition as the same

can be kept by care and diligence. A
SE01‘. 3. Whenever such bond is filed as aforesaid, and not

before, the property claimed shall be forthwith delivered on request, to the claimant his agent, or attorney, by the officer or

person having the same in his custody. A .
Smcr. 4. On filing said claim as aforesaid, the justice shall

docket said cause for trial, making the execution plaintifff the defendant, and shall fix a day for trial within five days thereafter,
of which the execution plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, if in
' the county, and the officer holding such execution, shall have
three days’ notice, unless the same be waived and a speedier
- trial agreed to by said parties; and further proceedings on such
execution shall be thereupon suspended until suchclaim be
abated, dismissed, or a final decision thereon had. '
. Snow. 5. A change of venue and continuances may be
- granted, new trials awarded, and judgments, and executions,
and other proceedings may be had in any such cause as in

other civil actions before justices of the peace, ,
rules therein are applicable, except as herein otherwise

provided.”
,1 SECT. 6.- No cause of action in writing. other than such

verified claim, shall be required to be filed in any such cause,
and the same may be amended in form or in substance as in
other suits, and the execution plaintifff shall have the benefit of
all legal evidence in his defense without filing any written defense or statement.
.-y Snow. 7. Such justice shall hear and try such cause unless
39- either party require a jury of three, six, or twelve citizens of
the county, in which case the highest number. of jurors required, beingone of the aforesaid numbers, possessing the qualifications of jurors in civil actions, before a justice, shall be
summoned as in other cases, to try such cause and give a verdict on which judgment shall be rendered as in other cases S0

far as applicable.
lve ‘ Snow. 8. Every jury of twelve in any such case before the

 justice, or on the appeal, shall in their verdict assess the value
my of the property claimed, and if the same do not exceed the Sum
‘ of twenty dollars, the party requiring such jury shall pay the

costs occasioned thereby, unless the other party shall have

joined in such requisition; and if such jury return a verpr dict, and omit to return such assessed value, they shall no_t_b8
983 allowed their fees as such, but such omission shall not vltlate

am their verdict.
Snow. 9. An appeal may be taken from the judgment of the
justice in any such cause, within ten days from the renditlon

thereof, and not after, under the same rules and provisions that
obtain in other cases before justices of the peace. *

Sscr. 10. ‘Such appeal shall be tried by the court, unless a
jury be required; and for the purpose of determining whether an
appeal may be taken, or a writ of error lie on the judgment of
the circuit court on such appeal, whenever the jury shall omit
to find the value of the property claimed, or whenever the circuit court shall try such appeal, such court shall assess the
value of such property.

Snow. 11. On a decision in favor of such claim, or any part
thereof, before the proper justice, such property, or such part
thereof as may be decided to be the property of the claimant,
shall not be delivered as aforesaid, until the time for taking an
ap eal from such decision to the circuit court shall have elapsed,
unless such bond shall be first executed and filed as aforesaid,
conditioned for adelivery as mentioned in the second section of

this chapter, or unless with. the consent of the executionplaintilll i

Seer. 12. Such circuit court shall also give judgment for»

five per centum in damages in favor of the execution-plaintifff,

on the value of the property adjudged by such court to be sub- ;

ject to such execution; and if the jury shall have omitted to
assess such value, or if no jury shall have tried such cause, the
court shall determine the amount of the five per centum from
evidence, if necessary, after trial.

SECT. 13. If the claimant shall remove such cause to the supreme court, by appeal or writ of error, which may be done,
subject, however, to the same rules and restrictions regulating
the removal of other civil causes originating before a justice of
the peace, the supreme court shall adjudge ten per centum damages in favor of such execution-plaintifff, on the value of the ‘
property which may have been adjudged by the circuit court as a

subject to such execution, if such judgment be affirmed by the
Supreme court.

Snow. 14. N 0 claim interposed by one or more partners for

their individual interest in any personal property so levied on, .

shall prevent the sale under execution of the undivided interest
therein belonging to an execution defendant. ~
Snow. 15. Any judgment contemplated by the provisions of
this chapter shall, while the same remains unreversed, be conclusive as to any party who had personal notice of the trial.
Snow. 16. Personal property taken by virtue of .a Writ of
foreign or domestic attachment, may be claimed, and such further proceedings thereon shall be had as is provided by this
phapter in cases of personal roperty taken in execution, and a
Judgment on a trial of the rig t of property taken in attachment

while the same remains unreversed, shall be conclusive on any
party who had personal notice as aforesaid. *

Snow. 17.

On the breach of the condition of any of the

bonds aforesaid, damages shall be recovered in a suit thereon to
the value of the property failed to be delivered, or of the injury
done thereto, or sustained, as the case may be, and it shall be
discretionary to assess not exceeding ten per centum on such
value, as additional damages; but the damages recovered shall
never exceed the amount, including costs, due on such execution or‘ executions, with ten per centum interest thereon.

SEc'r. 18.
the

In case there were two or more executions, and

plaintifffs therein to Whom such bond was executed were different; on a breach or breaches of the condition thereof, the
plaintifff or plaintifffs in each execution may have a separate action and judgment for his or their equitable part of such damages, or they may sue jointly and have separate judgments
therefore, and execution may issue, stay be taken, or appeal had
on the same, as on an independent judgment.

 
 

CHAPTER 44.

OF ARBITRATION S.

Sscrion

1.

Amp

GU‘

00:1

10.

11.

12.

Who may submit matter to arbitration—subject of award
Exceptions.

. Arbitration bond.
. Either party may appoint time for

arbitrators ‘to meet and give notice
thereof.

. Oath of arbitrators.
. Who may administer oaths to arbitrators and witnesses.
Witnesses how summoned, etc. .

. Parties to exhibit proofs, etc.—all the

arbitrators must attend, but a majority may make award. "

. Award to be in writing and signed.

etc.

Fees of justice of the peace and witnesses.

Copy of award, etc., given to each
party.

Award may be filed in court.

13 Proceedings for rule against the party

14.

failing to comply with award.
Judgment on award.

Sacrron

15. If rule served ten days, etc., coll“
may determine on award.

16. Grounds which adverse party 1118)’
show against judgment being r6II°
dered on award.

17. Cases in which court may modifY 0’
correct award.

18. Court to hear proofs, etc., of the P3"
ties——may give judgment. Gm °’
vacate award.

19. Judgment on an award for a sum Of
money, and the performance of any
act required by such award20. Costs.

21. Court may enforce award to P°"f°"“
act other than the payment of money, by attachment.

22. Reference of accounts. etc23. Referees may be sworn, etc. and
shall investigate the matters Sub‘

effect of a verdict.

. Judgment thereon.
Fees of arbitrators and 1’°f°’ ‘*5’

SECTION 1. All persons, except infants, married women, and

insane persons, may, by an instrument in writing, submit to the ‘

arbitration or umpirage of any person or persons, to be by them

mutually chosen, any controversy existing between them, which *

might be the subject of a suit at law or in equity, except as
otherwise provided in the next section, and may agree that such
submission may be made a rule of any court of record to be

‘designated in such instrument.°“

Snow. 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the
claim of any person to any estate in fee or for life to any real
estate; but any claim to an interest a in a term for years, or for
one year or less, in real estate, and controversies respecting the
partition of lands between joint tenants or tenants in common,
or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning the assignment of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.T

Seer. 3. When an agreement has been entered into as provided in the two preceding sections, the parties shall enter into
bonds duly executed, sealed, and delivered, with condition to
abide and faithfully perform the award or umpirage, specifying
in such bonds the name or names of the arbitrator or arbitrators,
and the matter or matters submitted to his or their determination, and also the agreement of the parties that the submission
shall be made a rule of court, specifying the court designated in
such agreement of submission._’[

l

. parties may proceed to exhibit

i but the award of a majority of them shall

Snow. 4. As soon as such bonds are duly delivered, either
party may appoint a time and place for the arbitrators to meet,
and give written notice thereof to the opposite party and to
such arbitrator or arbitrators, at least ten days before the time
appointed for such meeting. " ’

Siécr. 5. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, such
arbitrator or arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully and fairly to
hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to make a
just award, according to the best of his or their understanding.

Sncr. 6. ' Such oath, and the oaths to witnesses, may be administered by any judge of a court of record, or any justice of
the peace.

SECT- 7. Witnesses may be required to attend before arbitrators, on behalf of either party, by subpoenas to be issued by
any justice of the peace, in the, same manner, ' '
effect, and subject to the same process and penalties for disobedience, to be enforced by such. justice of the peace, ‘as in cases
of trials before justices of the eace.T

SE01‘. 8. At the time and p
tor or arbitrators shall be ready to proceed to business,
their proofs: '
must meet together and hear all the‘ allegations of the parties,
be valid, unless the

be expressly required in the

concurrence of all the arbitrators
submission. ‘

Snow. 9. The award of the
and signed by them, or a majority of them who shall agree
thereto, and shall be attested by a subscribing witness.

Saar. 10. The fees of the justice of the peace issuingfp1‘0cess, and of the witnesses in such case, shall be the samells
allowed before justices of the peace, and shall be ascertained
and estimated by the arbitrator or arbitrators, and returned with
ithe award, including therein his or their own fees as allowed by
aW.I ~ '

Snow. 11.
said, shall be delivered to each of the parties,
usual place of residence, by any one of the arbitrators, WI
fifteen days after the signing of such award.

arbitrators shall be in writing,

A true copy of the award, and of the costs aforeor left at h1s.3§t
in

Snow. 12. If either of the parties shall fail or refuse to comply with such award, the other party may file the same, together with the agreement of submission, in the court named in
such submission.

Snow. 13. Upon such submission being proved by a subscribing witness thereto, or in case of his death, insanity, or
absence out of the state, then by proof thereof as in other cases
of a written instrument, andupon the award also being proved
in like manner, or by the arbitrators, or any of them; and upon
proof that a copy of the award has been duly served on the
party against whom the rule is asked, the court shall cause such
submission and award to be entered of record, and shall grant
a rule thereon against the adverse party, to show cause at that
or the succeeding term of the court, why judgment shall not be

rendered by such court upon the said award.‘
Saar. 14. Upon the return of the rule the court shall conA firm the award and render judgment thereon, unless the award

be vacated, or modified, or postponed, as herein provided, which
judgment shall have the same force and effect as judgments in

other cases. .
SECT. 15. If the rule has been served ten days or more on

the adverse party before the time set for showing cause against
the award, the court may proceed to examine and determine
the same in his absence; or if he appear, they shall proceed to
hear and determine the grounds alleged against such award, if
there be any. .

Snow. 16. In all cases where an award or umpirage shall
be presented to any court of record for a judgment to be entered thereon, whether the reference shall have been made by
submission‘ of parties as aforesaid, or by rule of court, the

adverse party may show for cause against the rendition of such I

judgment, any of the following grounds:

1. That such award or umpirage was obtained by fraud, corruption, partiality, or other undue means; or that there was
Evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators or any of

em;

2. That the arbitrator or arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause
shown, or in refusing to hear evidence material and pertinent
to the controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the
rights of any party shall have been prejudiced; '

3. That the arbitrator or arbitrators exceeded his or their
powers; or that he or they so imperfectly executed them that

a mutual, final, and definite award on the subject matter submitted was not made.”

Sncr. 17. Any party to such submission may move the
court to modify or correct such award or umpirage ‘in the following cases: '

1. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property referred to or mentioned in such award or umpirage;

2. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall have awarded
upon some matter not submitted, and not affecting the merits of
the decision upon the matters which were submitted;

3. When the award’ or umpirage shall be imperfect in some
matter of form not affecting the controversy, and when if it
had been a verdict, such defect could have been properly
amended or disregarded by the court.T

Snow. 18. The court shall hear the proofs and allegations of
the parties to invalidate and sustain such award or umpirage,
and shall decide thereon, either confirming such award or umpirage. or may modify and correct the same in the cases
prescribed in the last preceding section so as ‘to effect the
intent thereof, and to promote justice between the parties, and
shall render judgment on such original or corrected award or
umpirage; or the court may vacate such award or umpirage,
for any of the causes herein before specified at the costs of the
party seeking to enforce such award or umpirage.

Srzcr. 19. If such award or umpirage be confirmed, judgment shall be given in favor of any party to whom any sum of
money or damages shall have been awarded that he recover the
same; and if the award or umpirage shall have ordered any act
to be done by either party, judgment shall be entered that such
act be done according to such award or umpirage.

Sncr. 20. The costs of the proceedings in court shall be
taxed as in suits; and if no provision for the fees and expenses
of the arbitration shall have been made in the award or umpirage, the court shall make the allowances therefore; but if there
was a suit pending previous to such submission, the costs of
which were not noticed by the arbitrators or umpire, the court
shall not allow or tax any of the costs thereof prior to such
submission.1.

Snow. 21. When, by any judgment of the court on award
or umpirage, any party shall be required to erform any 301
other than the payment of money, the court s all have power

to enforce the same by attachment, until the terms of such.
judgment shall be complied with. '

Snow. 22. In. any suit pending in any court where the par-1
ties have accounts to produce, one against the other, such par- 3
ties, their agents, or attorneys at law may consent, by rule of 1
court, to refer the adjustment of such accounts to certain persons mutually chosen by them in open court.

Snow. 23. Such referees, if required by the parties, shall be
sworn in open court or before any oliicer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and impartially to investigate, adjust, and
report the matters thus submitted, and shall proceed to the
investigation of such matters according to the submission of
the parties, and report to the court at such time as shall be
agreed by the arties in such rule of reference_.

Sncr. 24. hen such report shall be returned under the
hands of the referees or of a majority of them, it shall be entered on the order book, and shall be of the same effect and
be deemed and taken to be as available in law as the verdict of
a jury. . _

Snow. 25. Either arty may move the court for judgment

on such report, and i no sufficient cause be ‘shown to the con. trary, jud ment shall be rendered thereon in like manner and

with like orce and, effect as if rendered upon the verdict of a

jury.
S1-:c'r. 26. ,Such arbitrators and referees shall be allowed one

dollar per day each, for every day they may be necessarily employed as such arbitrators. ' e

\

- 

CHAPTER 45.

OF ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS RELATING TO REAL PROPERTY.

. ARTICLE 1. Of the action by writ of entry, upon disseizin.

Arrrrcna 2. Of the action of ejectment, and of occupying claimants.

ARTICLE 3. Of the assignment of dower.

Anricuz 4. Of the partition of lands owned by several persons.

A1mcI.r. 5. Of proceedings before justices of the peace against tenants holding 0V8!

ARTICLE 6. Of forcible entry and detainer.
ARTICLE 7. Of distress for rent.

n——:-jun

ARTICLE 1.

Of the action by writ of entry upon disseizin.

Sacrion ‘ A SECTION
1. Who may maintain such action. 4. Declaration.
2. “There action must be brought. ‘ 5. Not necessary to state title. 5503. Process shall be a summons. 6. Precise day named. not materialiacrron
7. Descent or discontinuance shall not

take away or defeat right of entry,
or of action, &c.

8. Actual entry need not be proved:
what shall be deemed -sufricient
proof of seizin.

9. Plaintiff must have the right of entry,
&.c.

10. What shall constitute a disseizin.

11. Same subject.

12. Ifprcmises unoccupied, against whom
action’ brought. ‘ t

13. Proceedings on the trial.

14. Joint tenants, &.c., how they may
‘sue, &,c.

15. Plaintiff may recover less than the
whole premises claimed.

16. General issue: defendant may show
all matters of defense in bar, &.c.
under it.

17. Pleas of non-tenure, disclaimer, &.c.

18. Landlord and tenant may join in defending, die.

19. Action not to fail for too many plaintifffs, if any entitled to recover.,

20. Plaintiff may in such action recover

damages.

Sscrion

21. Last section restricted.

22. If defendant suggest on the.record,
under oath, that he is entitled to
relief for improvements, &.c., question of damages postponed.

23. No writ of seizin shall issue until
question of claim for improvements
settled.

24. Case of death of party after judgment
by or to whom money is payable,
&.c. »

25. If party die after judgment, how writ

_ of seizin shall issue, &.c.26. This action shall embrace common
law remedies. ,

27. Final judgment, how far conclusive.

28. Same subject.

29. Limitation of actions.

30. If plaintifff die pending action, heir
may appear,,&.c.

31. Same, in case of several plaintifffs.

32. Suit may proceed when right passes
to surviving plaintifff, or where heir
does not appear.

33. Death in case of several defendants.

SECTION 1. Whenever a person holds possession of lands,

tenements, or hereditaments, to the exclusion of the

rightful

owner of an estate of freehold, whether such possession be acquired by unlawful entry

thereon, or by an unlawful detainer

after lawful entry, the lawful owner of such lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, mav recover the same-by a writ of entry

upon disseizin against the unlawful possessor, and shall in such

action recover the possession thereof, together with damages
for the unlawful detention of such possession.

Sncr. 2.

Such action. of disseizin shal

cuit court of the county where the premises in dispute are situate; but where parts of such premises are situate in different

counties, such action may be brou

ght inany of such counties.

Snow. 3. -The process by which the defendant shall be re' quired to answer the plaintitPs action shall be a summons, to be

issued after filing the declaration, and directed to the proper officer of the court out of which such summons shall issue, and
shall be served and returned like similar process in other actions

at law.

SEQT. 1}. It shall be sufficient for the plaintifff in such action to
state in his declaration the nature of the estate which he claims:

whether in fee simple absolute, or any

lesser essate, and 10

describe the lands, tenements, or hereditaments that he was
seized _0r possessed of, with sufficient precision and certainty to
be distinguished from other lands, tenements, or hercditamentsa

1 be brought in the cir-r

that he was seized or possessed of the premises on a day cer- .
tain, and that afterwards on the same day, the defendant en- '
tered thereon, disseized the plaintifff thereof and put him out
therefrom, and that the defendant has taken the profits thereof
to himself, and thereupon demand seizin or possession of the
premises, and dam es for the detention thereof.

SE01‘. 5. It shal not be necessary to set forth the original:
gift, devise, or other conveyance or title by which the plaintifff 1
claims the estate.

SE01‘. 6. The precise day named shall not be material, so‘.
that it be alleged within the time hereinafter limited for bringing
such action. i

SE01‘. 7. No descent or discontinuance which may hereafter
occur, shall take away or defeat any right of entry or of action
for the recovery of real estate.

Snow. 8. The plaintifff shall not be required to prove an
actual entry under his title, but if he shall prove that he is entitled to such an estate as he claims in the premises, whether as
heir, devisee, purchaser, or otherwise, and also that he has a
right of entry therein, these shall be deemed suliicient proof
0 his seizin as alleged in the delarationf‘ Sscr. 9. No such action shall be maintained unless the plaintifff, at the time of commencing the same, had a right of entry
into the premises.

Snow. 10. Every person who is in possession of the premises demanded in such action, claiming any estate of freehold
therein, may be considered a disseisor for the purpose of trying
the right, whatever may have been the manner of his entry on
the premises.T

Snow. 11. If the person in possession shall have actually
ousted the plaintifff or withheld from him the possession of the
premises, he may, at the election of the plaintifff, be considered
as a disseisor, for the purpose of trying the right, although he
should claim therein an estate less than a freehold.

Snow. 12. If the premises for which the action is brought
are_not occupied by any person, the action shall be brought
against some person exercising acts of ownership on the premises claimed, or claiming title thereto, or some interest therein
at the commencement of the suit.

Seer. 13. Every such action shall be prosecuted and conducted in the same manner as if the plaintifff had, at the time of
commencing the action, made an actual entry on the demanded
premises, and had been immediately ousted by the tenant, so
that on said trial upon the general issue, if the plaintifff shall
prove that he is entitled to such estate in the premises, as is set
forth in the declaration, and that he had a right of entry on the
day when the action was commenced, he shall recover the premises, unless the tenant shall prove a better title in himself.

premises as joint tenants, or tenants in common, may all join, or any two or more
of them may join, for the recovery thereof, or any one may sue

alone for his particular share.
in all cases, recover any speivided portion thereof, to

which he shall prove a sufficient title,
tion be less than is demanded in the declaration.
Sncr. 16. The general issue shall be not guilty, in manner

and form as alleged in the plaintifffs declaration, and under such
issue the defendant may show all matters of defense in bar of

the plaintifff ’s action.1
disclaimer, several teSncr. 17. The pleas of nontenure, _
nancy, and sole tenancy, may he pleaded either in bar or in

abatement; but no costs shall be allowed to the party pleading
the same, except such as shall accrue after filing the plead;
SECT. 18. Landlords and tenants, or persons standing in the

_ relation of landlord and tenant to each other, may join in detanding in the relation

fending any such action,and any person s
of landlord against whom such action may be brought, shall lie
ourt y

admitted to defend such action upon showing to the c

affidavit that such relation exists.
Sncr. 19. No such action shall wholly fail by reason that

fa there may be too many plaintifffs joined therein, if there be one

d or more of such plaintifffs entitled to recover; and in such case
' tiff or plaintifffs entitled to recover,

to the extent of their right or interest, and against the plaintifff

or plaintifffs who are not entitled.
7 Sncr. 20. If the plaintifff recover judg l
' ores

'0 he shall also be entitled to recover
against the defendant for the mesne profits of the pr
ject to the limitations herein afterwards contained, and

also recover damages for any destruction or was
ings or other property for which the defendant is by law chargeable, any or all of which damages may be assessed by the jury

trying such cause, or a writ of inquiry may be awarded. _
f_ the last preceding seqtlon

1 Snow. 21. But the provisions 0
shall be_ governed and restricted in all respects b

restrictions, and rules prescribed in the secon

chapter, respecting occupying claimants. _
at SECT. 9.2. If the defendant or tenant in p0SSeSSl01..\hElll mg’

‘l‘‘’ gest to the court, upon the record, an

ier. - . . . .
heis davit, that he is entitled to ‘relief in c

‘°‘ for and on account of improvements ma

I cording to the provisions of the said second article of

*0" the court shall order all questions respecting the p

mages to be postponed until after the trial and determination of
the question of title.

Sncr. 23. No writ of seizin shall issue until the questions
respecting the claim of the tenant or defendant, for improveIqents made on the premises, are adjudicated and finally disposed
o .

Sncr. 24. If after judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff on his title, and either party die before the writ of seizin is
executed, or before the case is otherwise settled and disposed
of according to the provisions of said second article of this chapter, any money payable by the tenant or defendant may be paid
by him or his executors or administrators, or by any person
who is entitled to the estate under him, to the plaintifff or his
executors or administrators, in likeimanner and with like effect
as if both parties were living; and any money payable by the
plaintifff may be paid by him or his executors or administrators,
or by any person who is entitled to the estate under him, to_ the
tenant or person entitled thereto, or to his executors or administrators, in like manner and with like efieet as if both parties
were living.

SECT. 25. The writ of seizin when issuable in any case, shall
be issued in the name'of the original plaintifff against the original
tenant or defendant, al_though either or both of them be dead;
and when executed it shall enure to the benefit of the plaintifff,
or whoever is then entitled to the premises under him, in like
manner as if it had been executed on the day when the judgment had been rendered.

S1-zcr. 26. The remedy hereby provided shall embrace all
the various remedies known to the common law for enforcing
the recovery of the seizin or possession of lands, tenements,
and hereditaments to the rightful owner of any freehold interest
or estate therein, and may be used in lieu thereof.

Saar. 27. Final judgment in such action upon default, or
upon the trial of the question of title, shall be conclusive upon
the parties thereto as to the title established in such action.

SECT. 28. Such judgment shall also be conclusive upon all
persons claiming from, through, or under such parties, by title
acguired at any time after the commencement of such action."

_ ‘nor. 29. No action, as provided in this article, shall be sustained by any person who shall not have had a right of entry
within twenty years next before the commencement of such
action, unless such person shall have been during such time, or
part thereof, without the United States, an infant, a married
woman, or insane; and the time of such absence, infancy, coverture, or insanity shall not be reckoned any part of the limitation aforesaid, if such limitation shall have commenced
during such inability.

SECT. 30. If, in any such action, the plaintifff shall die before final judgment, his heir, at the same term of the court
at which the death is suggested, or within such further time as
the court shall allow, may appear and prosecute the suit in the
same manner as if it had been originally commenced by him.

SECT. 3|. If there are several laintiffs in such action, and
any of them shall die before final judgment, the heir of the
deceased party shall, on motion, be admitted to prosecute the
suit jointly with the survivors, in the same manner as if he had
been originally joined with them in commencing the suit.

Snow. 32. If the interest of the deceased party pass to
the survivin plaintiffis, or if there be no motion for the admission of anot er person as heir,‘ at the term when the death of
the deceased party is suggested, or within such further time as
the court shal allow, the surviving‘ plaintifff or plaintifffs may
prosecute the suit for so much of the premises in question as
may then be claimed by them.

SE01‘. 33. When there are several defendants in any such
action and any of them shall die before final judgment, the
action may be prosecuted against the surviving defendant
oir defendants for so much of the premises as they may hold or
c aim.“‘

ARTICLE 1].

Of the action of qjectment; and of occupying claimants.

i:n:.c'rMi:x'r. SECTION

49. Assessment of value, etc., to be by
a jury, etc.—How court shall instruct such jury, etc.

50. Successful claimant may elect to pit)’
for improvements, or release the
land at its value, etc.

51. Successful claimant paying value Of
improvements, etc., or tendering
deed, etc., may have a writ of posSECTION
34. Notice of action.
35. VVho may be made defendant.

36. Judgment against casual ejector.

37. Surety for costs.

38. Action may not abate by death of
defendant, etc.

39. As to joint and several demises.
40. As to the declaration.

41. Consent rule. session‘ . . - . . . 52. Cases in which occupying claimant
42. Plaintiff shall specify lands for which shun not be evicted.

he intends to proceed, if required
by the defendant.
43. After issue no exception to declara53. Case in which he shall not beliable

for rents and profits. .
54. Assessment of value of improvetion allowed. by
44. Limitation of action. ineilots‘ etc“ may be made by mi 1
45. Ins ' ' , '3 "3'
t semen qualified 55. Appeal or writ of error allowednwdl
OCCUPYING cL,mAm.s_ 56. Actions for rents and profits liml
46. As to occupying claimants. CLARK’S GRANT47. Certain claimants entitled to benefit 57. Occupyingclaimants in Clarl£'8E“”"'
of last section. 53. Shall not be evicted till paid '“°"
48. Occupying claimant how to apply for etc.

relief. 59. Jury.

possession, or landlord, or other person claiming title to the
premises, or any part thereof, shall apply to be made defendant,
and enter into the common consent rule within the term at
which the said tenant had notice to appear.”

Snow. 37. If the lessor of the plaintifff be a non-resident of
the state, or an infant, or shall die, the court, on motion supported by allidavit, may stay proceedin s in the action until a
real and substantial person, resident 0 the county, shall be

given as surety for the payment of costs. ,

Snow. 38. No action of ejectment ending in any court shall
abate by the death of the defendant hefore final judgment, but
the cause of action shall survive against the heir or devisee of
any such deceased defendant; and said heir or devise
made defendant to any such action, in the same manner that an
executor or administrator may be made a party to any personal

action.
I Snovr. 39. In all actions of ejectment, the plaintifff shall have

3 the same benefit and advantage from a joint demise that he

could from several demises.T t
Seer. 40. In actions of ejectment, a copy of the decla

served on the tenant in possession shall be filed in court, and
shall be the declaration on which the cause shall proceed; but
the name of the casual ejector may be erased, and that of the

new defendant inserted at any time previous to judgment.
SE01‘. 41. When any person is made defendant in the room

of the casual ejector, he shall draw up and file with the general
issue, a written confession of lease, entry, and ouster, and that

such defendant is in possession of the premises, or of that part
which he defends; and in case he does not defend for the whole,

he shall specify the particular part for which he does defend;
except that '

when one tenant in common is sued by his cotenant, he shall not be obliged to confess ouster.
ll Snow. 42. The plaintifff, upon being served with notice for that
purpose, shall, if the same be necessary, furnish to the defend0- ant a written specification of the lands for which he intends to

proceed; and when service of such notice is given, . _
proceedings in the cause shall be had on the part of the plamtlll

I
3
l‘

until such specitication be furnished to the defendant’s attorney,
or filed in the clerk’s office.

Sacr. 43. After issue joined in ejectment, on the title only,
no exception of form or substance shall be taken to the declaration.’

Sncr. 44. No action of ejectment shall be commenced or
maintained for the recovery of any lands or tenements, against
any person or persons who may have been in the quiet and
peaceable possession of the same, under an adverse title for
twenty years, either in his own right or the right of any other
person or persons under whom he claims; and any action of
ejectment commenced contrary to the provisions of this section,
shall be dismissed at the costs of the party instituting the same.

SECT. 45. But the preceding section shall not be construed
to affect any person who may be a married woman, insane, a
minor, or out of the United States, until the expiration of five
years from the time such disability is removed.

Occupying claimants.

Smcr. 46. In all cases where any occupying claimant,

1. Being in quiet possession of any lands or tenements, for
which such person can show a plain and connected title in law
or equity, derived from the records of some public office; or _being in quiet possession of and holding the same by deed, devise,
descent, contract, bond, or agreement, from and under any person claiming title as aforesaid, derived. from the 1‘eC01‘dS Of S0m8
public office, or by deed duly recorded; or,

2. Being in quiet possession of and holding any lands or
tenements under sale on execution against any person claiming
title as aforesaid, derived from the records of some public office,
or by deed duly recorded; or, '

3. Being in quiet possession of and holding any lands or
tenements under any sale for taxes, authorized by the laws of
this state, at any time in force therein; or,

4. Being in quiet possession of any lands or tenements, and
claiming title thereto and holding the same under a sale and
conveyance made by executors, administrators, or guardians, or
by any person in pursuance of any order of court or decree in
Chancery, where lands are or have been directed to be sold, and
the purchaser thereof has obtained the title thereto and possession of the same without any fraud or collusion on his part;

Such occupying claimant shall not be evicted or turned out of
possession by anyperson or persons who shall set up and prove
an adverse and better title to said lands or tenements, until said
occupying claimant, or his heirs, shall be fully paid the value of
all lasting and valuable improvements made thereon by said occupying claimant, or by the person under whom he may hold
the same, previous to receiving actual notice by the commencement of suit on such adverse claim, by which such eviction

‘ shall be effected; unless such occupying claimant shall refuse topay the person so setting up and proving such adverse and better title the value of the lands or tenements without the improvements made thereon as aforesaid, upon the demand of the
successful claimant, or his heirs, as hereinafter provided. *

Sncr. 47. Any occupying claimant having a deed or certificate of sale, from a collector of taxes, or other officer authorized
by law to sell andiconvey lands for the non-payment of taxes,
or having a deed under any sale by execution, or on the sale of
lands on the application of any executor, administrator, or guardian, in a court having jurisdiction, or on the sale of lands in
proceedings in partition, or who shall claim under any person

olding any such deed or certificate, shall be considered as
having suilicient title to said lands to demand the value of the
improvements under the provisions of the last preceding section.

_Si«:c'r. 48. Upon the rendition of judgment against the occupying claimant in any case provided for in this and the preceding
artic e, either party may apply to the court for the assessment
of the amount to which such occupying claimant is entitled for
improvements, by petition, or by suggestion on the record,
stating shortly and succinctly the nature and extent of the
claimant’s demand therefore.

Snow. 49. The court shall thereupon cause a jury to be empannelled as in other cases of trial by jury, at such time as the
court shall direct to assess,

1. The value of all lasting and valuable improvements made
as aforesaid on the lands in question, previous to actual notice
of such adverse claim as aforesaid;

2. The damages, if any, which said premises may have sustained by waste or cultivation to the time of rendering judgment3. The fair value of the rents and profits which may have
accrued, and the damages which may have been sustained by
waste or cultivation previous to actual notice of the commencement of such action as aforesaid;

4. The value of the estate which the successful claimant has
in said premises without such improvements, or the damages occasioned as aforesaid by waste or cultivation at the time of rendering such jud ment.’r _

SE01‘. 50. T e successful claimant in all cases my. aim’
election, either demand of such occupying claimant the value of
the land as assessed by the jury without the improvements so
as aforesaid assessed, and convey the land in question by a willcient conveyance to the occupying claimant, or he may P3?

the occupying claimant the value of the improvements so as
aforesaid assessed, within such reasonable time as the court
shall. allow.

Sscr. 51. If such successful claimant shall pay the occupying claimant the value of the improvements thus assessed, after
deducting therefrom the damages found by the jury to have
been occasioned by waste or cultivation within the time allowed
by the court, or if on demand of the value of the land so assessed as aforesaid, and the tender of a conveyance as above
required, the occupying claimant shall neglect or refuse to pay
such value within the time allowed by the court, then a writ of
seizin or possession, as the case may require, shall issue and be
executed as if no such application had been made to have the
value of such improvements assessed. i

Saar. 52. If, however, such successful claimant shall not
demand the value of the land in question assessed as above provided withoutthe improvements, and tender a deed as aforesaid,
and shall also refuse to -pay the occupying claimant such assessed
value of the improvements, deducting therefrom the damages
occasioned by Waste and cultivation Within the time allowed by
the court, such occupying claimant shall not be evicted from
such land, but shall he suffered to remain in possession.

Snow. 53. In no case shall the occupying claimant who may
be evicted be liable to any action or prosecution for and on account of any rents or profits accruing or Waste or damages done
to said land previous to receiving actual notice of the commencement of such action, unless such waste and damages shall exceed
the assessed value of such improvements, deducting therefrom
the damages occasioned by waste or'cultivation and assessed as
aforesaid, and then only to the amount of such excess.

S1-zcr. 54. The aforesaid assessments and valuations may in
all cases be made by arbitrators or referees by the consent of
the parties. '

_ Sncr. 55. Either party may appeal from the decision and
Judgment of the court to the supreme court, or bring a writ of
error as in other cases.

Sncr. 56. In actions for the recovery of rents and profits
the tenant shall never be liable for the rents and profits for any
longer term than six years next previous to the bringing of such

action, nor for any waste or damages committed before that
time.’'‘

ii, extinguish the right of such occupying claimant by _p

Claw-k’s grant.

SECT. 57. Within the district of country granted by the state

of Virginia to general George Rogers Clark, and to the officers ‘

and soldiers of his regiment, eomm‘only called “F_Clark’s or Illinois
Grant,” the following provisions shall overn actions of ejectment and applications by occupying c aimants, so far as they
contradict or contravene any of the preceding provisions of this

article.
Sncr. 58. No occupying claimant within said grant shall be

evicted until he be fully paid, in addition to the lasting and valuable improvements above specified, all taxes and assessments
which he may have paid on such premises, and all street improvements made thereon by him, or by the person or persons
under whom he may hold the same, previous to receiving actual
notice of the commencement of suit on the claim by which he
is ‘evicted. ‘ _ r ‘

Sncr. 59. The value of such taxes, assessments, and improvements shall be. ascertained by a jury as above provided.

Snow. 60. Whenever the successful claimant shall decline
paying to the occupying claimant the value of the improvements,
assessments, and taxes assessed as aforesaid, the occupymg
claimant shall be liable to pay such successful claimant the
value of the ground-rent of such premises, to be ascertained by
a jury on the application of either party to the circuit ‘court;
or the same may be assessed at the instance ofeither party by
the jury empannelled to determine the value of the improvements as aforesaid. ‘

d. Sizer. 61. When such ground-rent is thus ascertained by
the finding of a jury, the court shall order the same to be made
of record, and such record shall specify the day of the month
and the year on which the judgment in such case was rendered.
SECT. 62. Said ground-rent, when ascertained, shall be pay}

able annually, to I be computed from the day of the rendition 0
such judgment, and shall in all respects be governed by the
same rules as other rents, and may be collected in like manner
by suit or distress. - _

y Sscr. 63. Either party may at any time have a review of
such finding of the jury, as to the value of such rents, by appl|'
cation to the proper circuit court on the payment of the 009“
of such application. ' . .

ring SECT. 64.. The successful claimant may at any time after

any such ascertainment of the ground-rent of said premises.
aying lllm

the amount found by the jury as the amount to which he is entitled for the improvements specified as above, and the lax.“
and assessments paid by him on such premises, with legal '“'

terest thereon.

Sncr. 65. The successful claimant may at any time within
ten years after the assessment thereof, have the valuation of
the improvements reviewed, and reassessed by a jury in the
proper circuit court by paying the costs thereof.

ARTICLE III.

Of the assignment of dower.

Sacrron

66. Of whom the widow may demand
to have her dower assigned.

67. If dower not assigned within thirty
days, may be assignedby com_ missioners, &c.
68. How she may proceed.

PROCEEDING BY PETITION AND SUMl_iIONS.

69. Petition, where filed.

70. Requisites of petition.

71. Summons.

72. Proceedings in case of infants.

73. How summons maybe served.

74. Service in case of non-resident deA fendant—publication.

75. Trial, when had. I

7 . Proceedings shall beat law: defendant may plead matters in bar, &.c.

77. Person not named in petition may
appear, &.c.

78. If widow recover, three commissioners appointed.

'79. Vacancies, how supplied.

80. Court may fix time for commissioners to report, and may enlarge
the time: may compel them to
report, «See.

81. Their oath.

82. Shall assign by metes, &.c. and make
return in writing.

83. Return, if accepted, to be recorded.

84. Dower to be adjudged as assigned.

35. Court may set aside such return, &.c.

86. In case of several parcels of land,
commissioners may assign any
particular tract, &.c., if widow
agree thereto.

87. Dower shall be set off by mates and
bounds when it can be done; if
not, dower may be assigned of
the rents and profits.

88. Surveyor, &.c.

89. Widow may recover damages.

90. Rules for the assessment of damages.
91. Same subject.

Section

92. Same subject.

93. ‘Time for which damages may be
recovered limited.

94. Effect of recovery of dower by petition, &.c.

95. Infants and non-residents allowed a

. year to review assignment of
dower.

IN CHANCERY: WRIT OF SEIZIN.

96. Proceedingsin chancery-—court may
appoint commissioners, &:c.
97. And decree damages.
98. Writ of seizin.

PROCEEDINGS BY PUBLICATION.

99. Proceedings by publication.
100. Notice to heirs, &.c.
101. Publication of notice.
102. Proceedings on the petition: commissioners.

103. Commissioners, how to proceed.
104. Non-residents and infants may have
a re-assignment of dower.

105. Infants may have re-assignment.

mrscsnmrrzoos rnovrsrons.

106. Widow may occupy mansion house
&.c. until dower is assigned.

107. May ogcupy lands, &.c. with the
heirs or children.

108. If widow neglect to have dower assigned, heir, &.c. may proceed to
have the same assigned on petition.

109. Proceedings thereon.

110. Dower recovered or assigned by collusion, &.c. shall not prejudice
heir, &c.

111. Action to controvert widow’s right
of dower limited. A

112. Action by widow to recover her
dower limited.

I 113. Compensation of commissionerssurveyor, &.c.—costs.

Sscr. 66. The widow may demand of the heir or person
having the next immediate estate of freehold or inheritance, or
of the person who has the legal or equitable estate in lands in
which she claims dower by virtue of any equitable interest
which her husband had therein at the time of his death, or of
any assignee or alienee of her husband, or of any person
having the title to any lands or estate in which she claims
dower, to have her dower in the estate of her husband assigned
and set over to her according to the true intendment- of law
and the extent of her right to dower in such estate.

Seer. 67. If dower be not assigned to her satisfaction
Within thirty days next after demand as aforesaid, such dower
may be assigned by three commissioners appointed by the pro‘ per court for that purposef‘ »

° Seer. 68. Such widow, in order that she may recover her
dower and have the same assigned, may proceed by bill in
chancery; or she may proceed by petition and summons; or
she may‘have her dower assigned by petition and publication
of notice in some public newspaper, to the heirs and other persons interested.T
Proceeding by petition and summons.

~e SECT. 69. If she proceed by petition and summons, she
shall file her petition in the proper court of the county in which
any of the real estate in which she claims dower, issituate.

Snow. 70. Such petition shall set forth,

1. The death of the husband;

2. The lands in which she claims dower;

3. The estate or interest which her husband had therein;

4. The names and residence, if known, of the person or
persons by whom such dower ought to be assigned;

5. The demand to have her dower assigned, of whom J8manded, and the failure to assign the same;

6. The amount of damages claimed, if she demand damages,
for withholding her dower.

S1-zcr. 71. A summons specifying the object of ‘such petition
shall be served on the person or persons made defendant or defendants to such petition, and returned as writs in other casesin SEW» 79- If anv of such defendants be infants, the sum“' mons shall also be served on their guardian; and if such infants
have no guardian, whether they reside in the state or not» the
court, on application of the widow, shall appoint some discreet
and_ substantial person for the sole purpose of appearing for an

taking care of their interests in the proceedings; and the P70‘

\

ceedings may be stayed until such guardian can be appointed

and a summons served upon him, unless he consent to appear‘

without service thereof.

Saar. 73. Such summons may be served personally on any
party in this state, or by leaving a copy of the samewith any
person of proper 0e at the last residence of such party in case
of his temporary Zbsence.

Sncr. 74. If an such defendant be a resident out of the
state, the service 0 such summons may be upon the tenant in
the actual possession of the lands, if there be any such tenant
and by publishing the same for three weeks successively in
some newspaper printed in the county where such petition is
pending, or if no newspaper be published therein, then in the
county nearest thereto in which a paper is published.

Sacr. 75. The court, upon being satisfied that such summons has been served, or such publication of notice made, at
least twenty days prior to the first day of the term at which
such petition is to be heard, may proceed to the trial and determination of the matters and things therein contained.

SE01‘. 76. The proceedings on such petition shall be at law;
and the defendants or any defendant thereto, may demur or
may plead any matters to such petition by several pleas, if necessary, to show that such widow is not entitled to dower
either in whole or in part, in the lands specified in her petition
or to defeat or diminish her interest or claim of dower therein;
and further pleadings shall be conducted as in other actions until an issue or issues in law or in fact shall be joined, which shall
be tried as in other cases.

Snow. 77. Any person not named in the petition who has a
legal, beneficial, or equitable interest in the estate of which the
widow claims dower, liable to be affected by such claim, may,
on leave of the court, appear to and answer, plead, or demur
to said petition, and allege any and all matters of defense in
fact and law which may defeat, bar, or diminish her claim or
Interest of dower in such estate.

Sncr. 78. If the defendants make default, or if she obtain
judgment for her dower, after trial or otherwise, the court shall
appoint three discreet persons who are disinterested and not of
km to any of the parties, as commissioners to assign and set
over to such widow her dower in the lands in which she is
entitled to have such dower assigned."

Sncr. 79. If any of the persons appointed commissioners
or all of them shall die, resign, or neglect or refuse to serve, any
such vacancy may be supplied by the court; and the person or
persons thus appointed, shall take the oath and perform all the
duties required of the original commissioner or commisioners.

Sncr. 80. The court appointing commissioners may fix the
time for making their report, and may at any time, for sufficient
reasons, enlarge the same; and may also, by order, compel
such report or discharge the commissioners, or any of them, for
failure or neglect of duty, and appoint others in-their places, or

in the place of any of them thus removed.
Snow. 81. Said commissioners shall take an oath before the

court, or any justice of the peace, that they will faithfully and
impartially discharge their duties as such commissioners, according to the best of their skill and judgment.

SECT. 82. They, or any two of them, at some convenient
and early time after their appointment, shall proceed to assign
and set off such dower, by sufiicient metes and bounds, and
shall make return thereof in writing, and acknowledge the same
in open court.

Sncr. 83. If such return he accepted and confirmed by the
court, it shall be entered in the minutes of the court, as evidence
of the due assi nment of her dower, as therein set forth.

3 SECT. 84. he court shall ‘thereupon adjudge such widow to
' have, enjoy, and possess the premises thus set apart and assigned by said commissioners, as and for her dower in the lands out
of which the same has been thus assigned.
, Sizer. 85. 'l‘he court, upon receiving the return of such
commissioners, or at the time appointed for confirming the same,
may, upon good cause shown, and upon such terms as may be
deemed just and right, set aside such return; and, as often. as
may be necessary, continue the same, or appoint new commisSl0I1eI‘S, who shall proceed as herein required in ‘the first instance, and make return in like manner; and if such other
return shall not be set aside, it shall be confirmed and entered
in the minutes of the court, as hereinbefore provided.
e. Seer. 86. When there are several‘ tracts of land of which
‘_ a widow is dowable, if in any case she shall select, and express
,3. her willingness to accept any particular tract or p
estate lyin together, in lieu of the dower to which she might
a.’ otherwise e entitled, the commissioners, if they deem it just
78- and proper so to do, may assign and set off such tract or parcel
of said lands to the widow, as and for her dower in the whole
estate of her husband, or as and for her dower in such portion
of said estate, as they may determine; and such assignment
may he pleaded in bar of any further assignment of dower
therein, by the heir, or by any alienee of the heir or husbandbe Sacr. 87. Said commissioners shall in every case assi n and

M set off said dower by metes and bounds, when it can be S0

be done Without damage to the whole estate; but when the ‘estate

3. out of which dower is to be assigned is such, that a (llVlSl0I1 by

metes and bounds cannot be made, or cannot be made without
damage to the whole estate, the dower may be assigned by said
commissioners of the rents, issues, and profits thereof, to be had
and received by the widow as a tenant in common with the
other owners of the estate, or in such other manner as may
best suit the interest of all the parties concerned.

Sizc-r. 88. Said commissioners may employ a surveyor, with
the requisite assistants, whenever it may be necessary to aid
them in the admeasurement and assignment of such dower.

SECT. 89. Whenever a widow shall recover her dower in
any lands upon petition and summons as aforesaid, against the
person Withholding dower, she shall in such action be entitled
to recover damages for the withholding thereof, which may be
levied and collected upon execution, as in personal actions.

Sacr. 90. When, in any action whatever, the widow shall
be entitled to recover damages for withholding her dower, such
damages shall be equal to one-third part of the annual value of
the mesne profits of the lands, or of the estate or interest which
her husband had in the lands in which she shall be entitled to
dower; to be estimated in a suit against the heirs and devisees
of the husband from the time of his death, or in suits against
persons claiming under such heirs or devisees, from the time
such persons became the owners of such lands or estate; and
in suits against other persons than such heirs, devisees, and
those claiming under them, such damages shall be estimated
from the time of her demanding her dower of such persons,
subject in all cases to the provisions of the four next following
sections.

Sscr. 91. If the person against~whom any suit or proceedings for the recovery of such damages is instituted shall not
have owned the lands durin the whole time for which the
widow is entitled to recover amages, she shall recover her damages against him for the time which he may have held the
premises; and if in any such case she shall recover her dower
or damages, she may afterwards maintain an action on the case
against any other person who shall be liable for the rents and
profits to which she may be entitled; but she shall not in any
such suit or proceedings recover damages for withholding her
dower for any time previous to demanding the same, where a
demand is necessary to entitle her to damages.

SECT. 92. Such damages shall not be estimated for the use
of any permanent improvements made on any lands by the
alienee, heirs, or devisees of the husband, or by any person
claiming title to such lands; nor for the mansion house, and messuage thereto belonging, while such house and messuage shall
have been occu ied by the widow, or under her control.

Snow. 93. amages shall be estimated in all cases for the
withholding of dower to the time of recovering judgment for;
such damages, but not to exceed six years in the whole, exclusive of the time subsequent to the commencement of the action.

1

iv

Sncr. 94. In all cases in which the recovery or assignment
of dower shall be by petition and summons, such recovery or
assignment of dower, unless reversed in a su erior court on appeal or writ of error, shall be final and cone usive as to all the
parties in such petition upon whom such summons was personally served, or who appeared to such action, and as to all persons claiming under them, of her right to dower, and the extent
thereof, in the lands in which such dower may have been assigned.

Sncr. 95. Any person who was an infant at the time judgment for the assi nment of dower was rendered, at any time
within one year a ter arriving at full age, and any person a nonresident of the state who was not personally summoned,_and

‘ho did not appear to answer such petition at any time within
three years alter such judrrment may have a review on his petition of the assignment of dower, if it can be shown that the
same has been inequitably or unjustly assigned, and have the
same re-assigned; but after the expiration of the time as above
limited, such re-assignment shall not be allowed.

In chancery : writ of seizin.

Snow. 96. Whenever the proceedings for the recovery of
dower shall be in chancery, the court may ap oint commissioners to assign and set off such dower, who sh I be governed In
all respects in like manner as commissioners acting pursuant to
the preceding provisions .of this article. ' _

Snow. 97. The court may also, in such proceedings In
chancery, inquire of and decree damages
for the withholding of her dower, and
thereof as allowed by the provisions of this article in proceedings at law. _

SECT. 98. Whenever the widow shall recover her dower; “1
chancery, or by petition and summons, and the same shall have
been duly set off and asssigned as aforesaid, she may li=1V0_3
writ of seizin, if necessary, awarded by the court to the sheriff
of any county in which any of the lands awarded to her as
her dower, by any decree or judgment of such'court,m_aY be
situate, commanding the sheriff to whom any such writ may be
directed, that be cause such premises to be delivered to 80011

widow without delay, so that she may have full and peaceable
enjoyment thereof.

Proceeding by publication.

Sncr. 99. When the widow is entitled to dower in lands,
and her right to such dower is not disputed, she may have the

same assigned and set off, in pursuance of the following p1’0V"
sions of this article. *

Sncr. 100. She shall in such case give notice to the heirs or ‘
other person or persons owning lands, in which she claimsi
dower, of her intention to apply to the circuit or probate court I
of the county where the greater part of the lands of her deceased husband lie, or in which administration of his personal
estate has been granted, to have commissioners appointed to
assign and set off her dower to which she may be entitled in
the real estate of her husband. i

Sncr. 101. Such notice shall be by publication for three
weeks successively in some newspaper printed in such county,
or if no newspaper be printed therein, then in some newspaper
printed nearest thereto in this state, at least twenty days prior
to the term of the court at which such application is intended
to be made.

Sncr. 102. Upon her presenting her petition to the court
for the appointment of commissioners to assign and set off her
dower in the real estate specified in such notice, at the term
specified therein, and it being made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court, that publication of such notice has been made as
required in the preceding section, and that, at least thirty days
previous to giving such notice, she made demand to_ have her
dower assigned, as provided in the first section of this chapter,
except where the person or persons bound to make such assignment are infants, or not residents of this state, the court shall
appoint three commissioners to assign and set off her dower in
the lands specified in such petition and notice. .

SECT. 103. When such commissioners are appointed, they
shall be governed in all respects in assigning said dower and
making their report, as above herein required of commissioners
where the proceedings are by petition and summons, and their
return may in like manner be confirmed or set aside, and like
proceedings thereon had.

SE01‘. 104. If, at the time of such assignment of dower, any
of the persons, interested therein were non-residents of the
state, theymay have the confirmation thereof set aside, and a
re-assignment of such dower made, for any good cause shown
to the court, within three years after such assignment. .

Saar. 105. If, at the time of such assignment, any of the
persons interested therein were infants, they may have the proceedings opened, and such dower re-assigned, for like good
causeshown, within one year after arriving at full age.

Miscellaneous provisions.

Sacr. 106. Until her dower be assigned, it shall be lawful for the widow to remain and continue in the mansion
house, and the messuage thereunto belonging, of her husband,

for the space of one year from her husband’s death, without being liable to pay any rent for the same.*
Sscr. 107. But the widow may continue to occupy any

lands in which she is entitled to dower W
other heirs of the deceased, or receive one-third part of the
rents, issues, or profits thereof, so long as the children or heirs

do not object thereto, without having her do
whenever any heir or heirs shall think proper

their share or shares in severalty, the widow may claim her
dower, and shal

1 have the same assigned to her according to
law.T

Sncr. 108. In case any widow shall fail or neglect to apply

' ment of her dower, after the expiration of a_year
and after one month’s notice in

demand of and institute proceedthe assignment thereof, it shall be lawful for the heir, the
person having the next immediate estate of inheritance, or other
person against whom her claim of dower may be enforced, or

the guardian of any such heir or person to proceed by publica~

tion of notice and petition for the assignment of her dower, as

above provided in the previous sections of this article.

SECT. 109. Upon proof of publication of such notice, at
least twenty days before the term of the court at which such
petition shall be presented, commissioners to assign dower may

be appointed,’ and the like _proceedin

, them, in any suit or proceedings commence
r. widow, or by any other person, for the assi nment of her
dower, recover by the default or collusion of gm guardian of
such minor heir, such heir shall not be prejudiced thereby; but

when he comes of full age he shall have an action againstftue
‘1 Y

widow, to recover the lands which may have been wrong

awarded to her, or he may have the suit and proceedings
opened up, for ‘good cause shown, and may have a re-assignment of such dower. '

On_ Snow. 111. No widow’s right or claim of dower, after the

-f lapse of twenty years from the time the assignment of _her

Q1, d0We1‘a 111 any suit or proceedings for the recovery or assignment thereof has been confirmed, and who has been In the
peaceable and quiet enjoyment thereof during said time, shall
he controverted or defeated by any adverse claimawht or titleSscr. 112. A widow shall not demand or recover her dower
after the expiration of twenty years from the death of her husband, but if at the time of such death she be under the age of
twenty-one years, or insane, the time during which such disability continued shall not form any part of said twenty years.

Sacr. 1113. The commissioners appointed to assign dower
shall each receive one dollar and fifty cents per day for every
day employed therein; and any surveyor and his assistants necessarily employed by such commissioners shall receive such
compensation as the court shall allow; and the costs of court
shall be the same as are allowed in other cases for similar services; all costs and expenses in such proceedings shall be paid
by such person or persons, parties to the suit, as the court may
adjudge or order.

ARTICLE IV.

Of the partition of lands owned by several persons.

Sac-non Sacnon
114. Who may have partition. 132. Guardians may appear and act for
115. Where petition shall be filed. their Wards.

116. How court may cause partition to
be made.

117. Petition shall set forth names of parties, &.c .

118. Petition, how filed; summons, how
served ; non-resident, how notified.

119. Cause, when to be tried.

120. Guardian ad litem.’

121. Defence maybepleaded, &.c.; issues,
how tried. .

122. Amendment of pleadings; may add
name of party omitted.

123. Proceedings in case a party appear
who is not named in the petition.

124. Same subject.

125. Interlocufory judgment.

126. Partition shall not be adjudged contrary to intention of testator.

127. Three commissioners appointed to
make partition.

128. Their oath.

129. They shall make partition, &c.

130. Two or more may have their shares
set off together.

131. Widow may have her dower set 01?
by the commissioners.

Snow. 1 14.

133. Advancements.

134. Report of commissioners.

135. Confirmation.

136. Court may set aside report.

137. If land cannot be divided court may
order sale thereof.

138. Terms of sale, See.

139. Proceedings when part of the lands
divided and part sold.

140. Same subject.

141. Deed to purchaser.

142. Proceeds of sale paid to those entitled thereto.

143. Two commissioners may act, &.c.;
vacancies.

144. Powers, &c. of a commissioner appointed to fill a vacancy.

145. Proceedings not to abate by death of
party, doc.

146. Same subject.

147. Same subject.

148. Compensation of commissioners,suri veyor, &.c.

149. How court shall award costs.

150. Who may obtain a review of partition, &.c.

All persons holdin lands as joint tenants or tenants in common, may be compe led to divide the same either
bl’ Writ of partition at common law or by_proceed1ngs in
Chancery, or in the manner provided in this article.*

Io

Sacr. 115. Any one or more of the persons so holding lands
may _apply by petition to the circuit or probate court of the
county in which the lands lie, for a partition of the same; or
when the lands lie in several counties, such petition may be
filed in the court of any one of the counties in which any part
of such lands are situate. - ~

Sncr. 116. The said courts are hereby empowered to cause
partition to be made by setting off the share or shares of those
who desire the same to be done, whether petitioners or defendants, and the residue‘ of the premises shall remain for the person or persons entitled thereto, subject to a future partition
among them, if there be more than one person so entitled.

Sncr. 117. Every petition for partition shall set» forth the

‘ rights and titles so ‘far as known to the petitioners, of the several parties interested, together with a description of the premises.* ‘ .

Sacr. 118. Such petition may be filed either in term time
or in vacation, and a summons to appear and answer thereto
shall be issued by the clerk and served personally on each of
such parties, if they shall be found within the state, or by leaving a copy thereof at their last place of residence; or if any of
the said defendants are non-residents of the state, or if their
names be unknown to the petitioner, and so alleged in his petition, and such non-residence or want of knowledge he verilied
by affidavit, the clerk shall order notice of the pendency of such
petition to be given for three weeks successively in some newspaper printed in such county, or if none be printed therein, then
in a newspaper rinted in this state nearest thereto.

Sizcr. 119. lgpon it appearing to the court that such summons has been served ten days before the first day of the term,
and when publication as aforesaid is required, that the same has
been made thirty days previous to such term, the court shall
proceed to hear and determine such petition.

Sizer. 120. The court may assign a guardian ad litem for
any infant or insane defendant in the same manner as such
guardians are admitted for an infant at common law.

be Snow. 12]. Any person interested in such estate may appeal‘

and plead, either separatelv or jointly with any other defendant,
any matter tending to show that the petitioner ought not to
have partition as prayed for, either in whole or in part; and the
replication and further pleadings shall be conducted as in ac~ tions at common law, until an issue or issues in law or in fact

shall be joined, which shall be tried and determined as in other
cases.

Seer. 122. Amendments'of the petition or other pleadings
of the parties may be made in like manner as in other suits at
law, and on like terms; and if at any stage of the proceedings it
shall appear that any person interested has not been made a
party, the court may permit his name to be inserted and the
cause to be continued until he can be notified according to law
of the pendency of such petition.

SECT. 123. If any person who is not named in the petition
shall appear and plead as a defendant, or allege any claim or
title to the premises, or any part thereof, the petitioner may
reply that such person has no estate or interest in the premises,
and may pray judgment if he or- she shall be admitted to object
to the partition; and the petitioner mayilikewise reply in answer
to such plea any other matter, in like manner as he might have
done if he had not disputed such person’s right to appear.

SECT. 124. If it shall appear that such person has no estate
or interest in the lands, the matter of his or her plea, allegation,
or objection to such partition shall be no further inquired of.

S1-:c-r. 125. If upon the trial of any issue, or upon default,
or by the confession or admission of the parties it shall appear
that partition ought to be made, the court shall award an interlocutory judgment that partition shall be made, specifying therein
the share or shares which shall be assigned in such partition.

Sac-r. 126. Such court shall not order or atiirm any division
of any real estate contrary to the intention of any testator, as
expressed in his will. i

Sncr. 127. Upon judgment of partition being awarded, the
court shall appoint three disinterested freeholders residents of
the county in which such court is held, not of kin to any of the
parties, to make partition of such real estate pursuant to the
Judgment of the court.

_ Siccr. 128. Before proceeding to the discharge of their'duties such commissioners shall take an oath for the faithful and
impartial performance of the trusts reposed in them, which oath
if taken in open court, shall be entered in the order book, and
if not, the same shall be indorsed on the warrant issued to them
to make such partition.

_ S1-zcr. 199. Said commissioner shall proceed to make partition of such lands among those entitled thereto in pursuance of
the judgment and directions of the court according to their respective rights. ‘

SECT. 130. If there be several persons interested, any two
Or more of them may have their shares set off together, or the
shares of each may be set off in severalty, at their election.

SECT. 131. If the widow of any deceased person shall have
established in such proceedings for partition her right to dower,
or If. the same shall be admitted in such proceedings, the commissioners, if required by the order of the court so to do, shall
assign and set over to her her dowcr of and in said lands, or any

part thereof, as in other cases of the assignment of dower, and
shall return the same as a part of their proceedings.

SECT. 132.‘ The guardians of all minors are hereby authorized and empowered, under the direction of the proper court,
on behalf of their wards to do and erform all matters and things
respecting the division of any rea estate, in the same manner
and with like effect and validity if conducted in good faith as the
same could be done by such wards were they of full age.

SECT. 133. When any of the heirs of a person dying intestate shall have been advanced in the lifetime of such person by
a portion or settlement in lands or otherwise, such portion or
settlement, after it has been ascertained and adjudged by the
court according to the rules prescribed by law forthe adjustment of advancements, shall be taken into consideration in the
assignment of the share of the heir advanced so as to make the
shares of all the heirs equal, as near as can be estimated, according to their respective rights.

Sncr. 134. When the commissioners shall have completed

- such partition they shall make report thereof under their hands
to the court, specifying particularly the lot or part assigned to
each person entitled to such partition, mentioning in such report
which of. the persons are minors, if any there be.

SEc'r. 135. Such report shall be acknowledged by the commissioners making the same, in open court, and if confirmed by
the court shall be spread upon the order book, and judgment
shall thereupon be rendered by the court that such partition be
firm and effectual for ever as among such parties.

Sscr. 136. The court, however, before confirmation, may
set aside such return for any good cause shown, and commit
the same anew to the same or any other commissioners to be
appointed and qualified as aforesaid, whereupon the same p1‘0ceedings shall be had as are before directed. _

>t SECT. 137. When the whole or any part of the lands of which
_ partition is demanded, are such that they cannot be divided withof out damage to the owners, and the commissioners shall repoljt

such fact to the court at the same or any other term after their

appointment, the court, in its discretion, may make an order for
the sale of the whole or of such part of said premises as the com‘missioners shall have reported not susceptible of a just and
equitable partition without injury to the owners aforesaid. _
1°» SECT. 138. The court shall direct such sale to be at pl1l?l'°

vendue, on such terms and conditions, and subject to such Just
restrictions as to the court shall seem right and safe.*

SE-cr. 139. If such sale be ordered and partition be made °f

f any part of the real estate specified in the petition, Sllifh Par’
m t1t10I}_may be confirmed, or a new partition ordered, as I
partition had been made of the whole; and, if confirmed:

shares of the parties set off therein shall be as valid and effectualas if the whole estate had been divided. ~

Sscr. 140. The shares which are thus divided may be the
full portions of the parties to Whom the same are assigned, in
in the real estate specified in the petition, of which partition is
made; and where such partition thereof is confirmed by the
court, the residue of such estate not susceptible of partition, and
the proceeds thereof, shall be fully and completely discharged
and released thereby from all right, title, interest, and claim of
the arties to whom such partition shall have been made and
con rmed.

SE01‘. 141. When the commissioners shall show to the
court that the purchase money for the premises sold by order
of the court as aforesaid, is fully paid, and they shall have accounted to the court therefore, such court shall order such commissioners to execute the roper conveyances to the purchaser
or purchasers, which shall) operate as an effectual bar, both in
law and equity, against such owners with like force and effect
as if the same had been executed by such owners.

Sscr. 142. The monies arising from such sale after the
payment of the costs and expenses with which the same is
justly chargeable, shall be paid by such commissioners to the
persons entitled thereto, according to their respective shares,
under the direction of the court.

SECT. 143. Any two of the persons named as commissioners may do and perform the duties required by this article;
and in case of the death, resignation, removal, or refusal to act
of any such commissioner or commissioners, at any stage of
the proceedings, the court shall fill such vacancy.

Sscr. 144. Such death, resignation, removal, or refusal shall
not affect or invalidate the previous acts of such commissioners,
and the person or persons ap ointed to succeed any commissioner or commissioners, shal take up and continue the proceedings; and when com leted by the requisite number authorized to do and perform t e same, shall be as valid and effectual
to all intents and purposes, as if the same had been done and
transacted by the commissioners first appointed.

Sscr. 145. Proceedings for the partition of land shall not}
abate by the death of one or more of the plaintifffs or of the.‘
defendants.

_ Seer. 146. If, in such case, one or more of several plain-I
tiffs die, the proceedings shall be continued in the name of the
survivors, if the interest in the lands survive or descend to them.
If the interest of any such deceased plaintifff in such lands pass
to other persons, they may be made defendants or plaintifffs, as
the case may require, by rule of court served upon them in
such manner as the court shall direct, and the case shall proceeélnas if they had been made plaintifffs or defendants origm .

SE31‘. 147. If one or more defendants in partition die, ands
the interest of such deceased person shall survive or descend

to the remaining defendants, the proceedings shall be continued
against them. If such interest s all pass to other persons they
may be made defendants in like manner as is prescribed in the
last preceding section, or by process as in the commencement
of the proceedings.

S1-:c'r. 148. The commissioners so appointed shall be entitled
to receive each one dollar and fifty cents per day for their services rendered as aforesaid, together with such other sum as
the court shall deem reasonable, for surveying, marking, chaincarrying, platting, and for the execution of the proper conveyances where the same are necessary.

Seer. 149. The court shall award the costs and charges
specified in the last section, and all other costs against the persons among whom the estate mentioned in the petition, shall
have been divided in such proportion as to the court shall seem
just and right; and judgment in favor of the persons entitled
to such costs and charges shall be rendered against the parties
adjudged liable therefore. V

Sncr. 150. Any person not served with a summons may,
within one year after such partition is confirmed, appear and
Open the proceedings and obtain a rehearing or review thereof»
upon showing sufficient cause; and any infant, whose guardian
did not attend and approve such partition, and any feme covert
or insane person may also, within one year after the removal

of his or her disability, have a review of such partition upon
showing suiiicient cause.

ARTICLE V.
Of proceedings before justices of the peace against tenants holding over.
SECTION Sscrxozs
151. Of the determination of certain te- 162. Subpoenas for witnesses: by whom
Il0J1Cie8- served: penalty for witnes.-»fnl1'
152. Notice to quit when tenancy from ing to attend.
year to year. 163. Continuances.
153. Notice in other cases. 164. Trial.
154. To whom notice given. 165. Challenge of jurors: talesmelh
155. Demise for a definite term, no such 166. Parties may amend pleadingsIlotice necessary. 167. Jury kept together until the)’ “a>""°°‘
156. Other cases in which notice to quit or if they cannot agree» WY b“
not necessary. discharged and another trial
157. How notice given. 153- 011 trial. Plaintiff must prove serVl¢°
158. How to proceed to recover posses- of notice.
°l°n- 169. Judgment for plaintifff: W1’l‘°'”"°h
159. Complaint. judgmem
160 Summons: time of trial: jury. 170. Writ, how executed.

161. Summons, how served. 1'71, Fi. fa.

Sncrron Scenes 1

172. Judgment for defendant. 179. If such person assert his claim, pro- 173. Appeal: appeal bond. ceedmgs shall be stayed, on his
174. Appeal, how tried in the circuit giving bond to prosecute an accourt. _ tion at the next circuit court.
175. Judgment in circuit court: writ 180. If such person fail to prosecute, or
thereon. if judgment be against him, jus176. Effect of appeal: if appeal dismiss- ticos may proceed.
‘ ed, clerk of circuit court to cer- 181. Tenant’s right to emblements not
tify, &,c. impaired. 177. Damages, to what time assessed. 182. This article restricted.
178. Defendant may suggest that the 183. Proceedings in case either of the
right to the premises is in some justices fail to act, &.c.
other person.

Sncr. 151. When any lands, tenements, or hereditaments,'
are held or possessed under any landlord by any tenant at will,
or from year to year, expressly or constructively, or for a period
indefinite and uncertain, such landlord, if desirous of obtaining
possession of the premises thus held or possessed, may determine such tenancy b giving the requisite legal notice to quit
the possession thereoi:

Sscr. 152. If such tenancy is from year to year, such notice
to quit must be given at least three months previous to the end
of the current year.

Smcr. 153. In the other cases specified in the first section of
this article, such notice to quit may be given at any time, at
least three months previous to the time it is intended to determine such tenancy, unless a shorter period be sufficient by law.’

Sncr. 154. Such notice to quit shall be given to the tenant
in possession, whether he be the original tenant of said premises
or the heir, devisee, assignee, or sub-lessee of such tenant, or his
personal representative. l

Sncr. 155. Where any lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
are demised for a certain and definite term, the right of the
tenant to the possession thereof shall determine at the expiration of the term specified in such demise, and no notice to quit
shall be necessa .

Sncr. 156. lillor shall such notice to quit be necessary in the
case of a tenant at will who commits waste, nor of a tenant at
sufferance, nor in any case where there does not exist between
the arties, either expressly or constructively, the relation of
land 0rd and tenant.

Sscr. 157. Any notice required by the preceding sections
of this article may be served by delivering the same to the tenant of the premises, or if he cannot be found, by delivering the
same to some person of proper age and discretion residing on

the premises, having first made known to such person the contents thereof.

Sncr. 158. Whenever any landlord, his heirs, devisees, as" signees, or personal representatives, shall have determined any
r tenancy by notice to quit as above prescribed, or whenever any
landlord, lessor, or rightful owner of any lands, tenements, or
hereditaments, shall be entitled to the possession thereof, according to the provisions of the previous sections, any such
landlord, his heirs, devisees, assignees, or personal representatives, or the agent of any of them, may have the person against
whom he may properly proceed removed from such premises,
on complaint before any two justices of the peace of the county
where such premises are situate.

SECT. 159. Such complainant shall specify the matters relied
on for the removal of any such tenant or person against whom
proceedings are instituted, and the premises claimed shall be
designated with reasonable certainty.

SECT. 160. Said justices of the eace shall forthwith issue a
summons, directed to the sheriff 0 such county, commanding
him to summon as well the tenant or person against whom such
complaint has been filed, that he be and appear before them, at
a specified place, in the township in which such premises are
situate, not less than five nor more than ten days after the issuing thereof, as also twelve householders of the county as jurors,
to meet at the same time and place, for the trial of the questions
arising under such complaint.

Snow. 16]. Such summons may be served on the tenant of
the premises, or if he cannot be found, by delivering a copy
thereof to some person of proper age and discretion, residing
on the premises in controversy, or if there be no such person
to be found thereon, such warrant may be served by afiixing :1
copy thereof on a conspicuous and public part of said premises,
where it may be conveniently read. ‘

Sncr. 162. Either of the justices of the peace before whom
such cause is pending, may, at the request of either party, issue
subpoenas for witnesses, to appear and testify on the trial thereof, which may be served by the party procuring the same, or
by any constable, or by the sheriff, or his deputy; and every
person duly served with such subpoena, who shall, without reasonable cause, refuse or neglect to appear, or appearing, shall
refuse to testify or answer upon oath, touching the matters in
controversy, shall be proceeded against and subject to the H083
and penalties provided by law for similar offenses in civil causes
pending before a justice of thepeace. _

SECT. 163. Said justices may, upon the motion of either
party, adjourn the hearing of such cause, for the purpose of enabling such party to procure his testimony, whenever it shall
appear to be necessary; but such adjournment shall in n0 0359
exceed ten days, and shall only be allowed for the same c:1uS83_
and on a similar affidavit as are required for the continuance 01
a ClVll causepending before a justice of the peace.

‘S1-:c'r. 164. If, at the time and place appointed in said summons, it shall appear that due service thereof has been made 115

above required, the jury shall be empannelled and sworn well
and truly to hear, try, and determine, the matters in difference
between the parties.

, Seer. 165. Before the jury is sworn, either party shall have
the same right of challenging any of said jurors, and for the
same causes as in the circuit courts of this state; and said justices may order any deficiency in or want of such panel of
jurors to be supplied from the bystanders, or others, householders or freeholders of saidcounty, as in other courts.

S1-zcr. 166. Either party, before entering into trial, shall have
the same right of amendin his cause of action, or of defense,
or other pleading, as is a lowed by law in suits pending before a justice of the peace.

Sscr. 167. After hearing the allegations and proofs of the
parties, the said jury shall be kept together until they agree on
their verdict, by the sheriff, or one of his deputies, or by a constable, or some proper and disinterested person, appointed by
the said justices of the peace for that purpose, who shall be
sworn to keep such jury, as in like manner is required of officers having charge of juries in courts of record; and if such
jury cannot agree, after being ke t together for such time as
such justices shall deem reasonab e and proper, they may d18charge such jury, issue a new precept for another jury, and
continue such cause for trial at some subsequent time, not exceeding five days. , ~

Sncr. 168. No verdict shall be rendered for the person
claiming such premises, in any case in which notice ‘to quit is
required by the provisions of this article, unless a copy of such
notice be produced to the jury trying such cause, and due service thereof proved by a disinterested witness. i

Smcr. 169. If the verdict of the jury be in favor of the
plaintifff, the saidjustices shall render judgment thereon that

' said plaintifff have possession of said premises delivered to him,

and that he recoverthe damages assessed by said jury, and also
his costs; and if thereto required by said plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall issue a writ directed to the said sheriff, commanding him to deliver said premises to said plaintifff, by removing the defendant and his goods and chattels therefrom, or

otherwise, so that the plaintifff have complete possession thereof, and also to levy such damages and costs of the goods and chattels of said defendant, as the same might bedone by virtue of a
Wflt of fieri fa-cias directed to such officer.

SI-JCT. 170. Execution of said writ, as relates to the delivery '

of pessession, shall be made by the sheriff, forthwith after the
Teflelpt thereof; and the levy by virtue thereof to collect the
said damages and costs, the sale of the property executed, and
the return of such writ, shall in all respects be governed as like
cases of writs of fieri faeias issued by a justice of the peace in

aciyil cause; and said writ may be returned to either of said
justices. ’

S1-:c'r. 171. If said sheriff shall not be able to levy said damages and costs by said writ, by the proper return day thereof,
a Writ of fieri facias may be issued, with like force and effect
and governed in all respects as such first writ, so far'as the
same is intended to operate as a writ against the property of
the defendant.

SECT. 172. If the verdict of the jury shall be in favor of the
defendant, judgment shall be rendered thereon that he recover
his costs of said plaintifff; and a writ of fieri facias to levy the
same, at the request of such defendant, shall be issued by said
justices to the said sheriff, who shall execute and return the
same, as in the case of a similar writ in favor of the plaintifff.

Sncr. 173. An appeal shall be granted to either party on
any judgment rendered by said justices of the peace, to the
proper circuit court, under such regulations and restrictions,
and in like manner as are required in appeals from the judgment
of a justice of the peace; and the appeal bond shall be filed
with said justices, and sent up to the circuit court, with the
other papers of the cause, and shall be conditioned that such
appellant, if the plaintifff, will duly prosecute his said appeal,
and pay the costs which shall be adjudged against him by said
court; and if the defendant is the appellant,«that he will duly
prosecute his said appeal, and pay the damages and costs which
may be adjudged against him in said court.

Sccr. 174. Such appeal shall stand and be tried in the circuit court in like manner as is provided for the trial and determination of causcs.appealed from a justice of the peace; and
all provisions of law for the amendment of the pleadings, papefss
causes of action, and statements of the parties, and for supplying any deficiency therein in causes appealed from a justice of ~
the peace to the circuit court, shall be applicable to any such
appeal, so far as the same can be in such circuit court. .

SECT. 175. Such court shall render the same judgment in
such cause as the said justices of the peace are required to render, according as the matters in controversy are found in favor
of the plaintifff or defendant, and similar process shall be issued
on such judgment, at the request of either party, by the Clerk
of said court, and shall be executed as above directed when
issued by said justices of the peace, and return thereof shall be
made in the manner prescribed for writs of fieri facias issued
out of such court.

_ SECT. 176. Such appeal shall supersede all further proceedings on the judgment rendered by such justices of the peacenor shall such judgment be of any further force or effect, exc0P‘
such judgment shall have been rendered for the plaintifffs and
the defendant shall have appealed, and his appeal shall be dis_missed_by the circuit court, in which case the clerk shall certify
isuch dismissal, under the seal of his court, to said justices;

whereupon execution may be issued and all other proceedings
had on such judgment as if such appeal had never been takenSECT. 177. In estimating damages for the detention of said

premises, the jury or the court, as the case may be, shall esti- ‘

mate the same to the time of the finding of such damages before
the said justices of the peace or in the circuit court.

Sscr. 178. If the defendant before the trial of such cause
before said justices of the eace, shall make and file with-them
an affidavit denying the paintif’f’s ri ht, claim, or title to the
possession of said premises, and shal allege therein that the
right to such possession is in some other person whom he shall
name, stating briefly the nature of such right or title, said justices of the peace shall adjourn the trial of the cause for four
days, and shall direct a copy of said affidavit to be served on
the person therein named as having such right to the possession
of said premises, his agent or attorney, with a notice to be and
appear before said justices on the day to which such cause stands
adjourned, toassert his right, claim, or title to the possession of
the premises aforesaid. i

Sncr. 179. If on such day said person, his agent or attorney, shall appear and make and file an affidavit before said justices that he verily believes -he is entitled to the possession of
said premises, setting forth in a brief manner the nature of his
right, title, or claim to said possession, or if his agent or attorney shall appear and make and file such affidavit, and if such
person, or his agent or attorney, shall file at such time and place
a bond in the penal sum of two hundred dollars, with good and
sufficient surety to be approved by said justices, conditioned
that such person will duly prosecute his right, claim, or title to
the possession of the premises aforesaid at the next circuit court
of said county, said justices shall enter the same on their proceedings, and shall direct such proceedings to be stayed.

S1-:c'r. 180. If the person whose claim, right, or title to the
possession of said premises has been thus interposed, fail to
prosecute such right, claim, or title at the next term of said
court, or having instituted proceedings in that “behalf, the judgment or decree shall be rendered against him, the clerk of the
circuit court shall certify such fact under the seal of said court
to said justices of the peace, who shall proceed, if requested
by the plaintifff, to hear and determine said cause instituted before them, and render ‘judgment therein and issue execution as
if no such proceedings had been instituted in said circuit court,
having first appointed a dav for such trial, and caused notice
thereof to be served on the defendant, his agent, or attorney.

SECT. 181. Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to defeat or impair the right of any tenant to emblements
and any growing crop to which he would be entitled if this act
had not been passed. '

Sncr. 182. Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to impair the rights of any landlord or lesser, or of any
tenant or lessee in any case not herein provided for. _

_ Sncr. 183. Whenever it shall happen that either of the justices of the peace before whom the complaint specified in this

article may be filed, shall die or go out of office before the final
determination thereof, the successor or justice to whom the bug
siness of any such justice of the peace shall be transferred, shall
proceed in such cause as if he had been one of the justices before whom the same was originally instituted; and if there be
no such justice as above specified who can take part in the adjudication of such complaint, the remaining justice may select
any competent justice of the peace of the county, who shall

proceed in such cause in like-manner as above provided.

I
2::-ii

A»ARTIC LE VIOf forcible entry and detainer. '

Sncrrox ,_ Section

184. Trial for forcible entry and detainer 190. Form of verdict for plaintifff
by jury before two justices. 191. If not a full jury, panel how filled

185. Complaint——warrant for jury. a ——jury shall sign verdict.

186. Form of warrant. 192. Judgment for p1aintiH'—-form of writ

187. Summons. of restitution.

188. Summons, how served. 193. Appeal.

189. Complaint laid before jury—fore- 194. Three years’ quiet possession. 81¢»
man’s oath—jurors‘ oath. — not affected.

Sacr. 184. Two justices of the peace shall have authority
to inquire, by a jury as hereinafter directed, as wellagamst
0 those who make unlawful and forcible entry into lands or tenements, and with a strong band detain the same, as against those
who, having lawful andepeaceable entry into lands or tenements,
unlawfully and by force and strong hand hold the same; and if It
be found, upon such inquiry, that an unlawful and forcible entry
has been made, and that such lands or tenements are held and
detained with force and strong hand, or that such lands A
nements, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully and with
force and strong hand, then such justices shall cause the party
complaining to have restitution thereof?‘ , ,

Srzcr. 185. When complaint shall be formally made 111
writing to any two justices of the peace, of any unlawful and
forcible entry into any lands or tenements, and detainer of the
same, or of any unlawful and forcible detainer of the same after
a peaceable entry, they shall make out their warrant under
their hands and seals, directed to the sheriff or coroner, as the
case may be, of the same county, commanding him to cause 10
come before them, twelve good and lawful jurymen of the same
_county to inquire into such unlawful and forcible entry and de+ninor_ nr unlawful and forcible detainer.T

.L.-u

under out hands and seals the

Srzcr. 186. Such warrant shall be substantially in the following form:

State of Indiana,
county, greeting:
T Whereas, complaint has been made to the undersigned,
two justices of the peace for the county aforesaid, by E F
of -————, in the county aforesaid, that G. H of
on the day of , 18——, at aforesaid, with
force and arms and with strong hand, did unlawfully and forcibly, enter into and upon a tract of land of him, the said E F,
in aforesaid, containing acres, bounded as follows, to-wit: (or into the messuage or tenement of him, the
said E F, as the case may be) and him, the said E F, with force
and strong hand as aforesaid, did expel and unlawfully put out
of the possession of the same, and does him, the said E F, unlawfully, forcibly, and with strong hand, deforce and still keep
out of the possession thereof; (or if it be a forcible detainer only,
then the entry shall be described, and the detainer inserted as
follows: and the said G H does unlawfully, unjustly, and with
strong hand, deforce and still keep him, the said E F, out of
the possession of the same;) you are thereforee commanded, in
the name and by the authority of the state of Indiana, to cause
to come before us, upon the day of , 18 ,
at the hour of , and at , in the county aforesaid,
twelve good and lawful jurymen of your county, to be empannelled and sworn to inquire into the unlawful and forcible entry and detainer, (or the unlawful and forcible detainer, as the
cass may be) before described. Given under our hands and
seals the day of . , 18

8‘   § Justices of the peace.

   

county, sct. To the I of ——

     

   

 

     

Sscr. 187. Said justices shall make out a summons to the
party complained against, substantially in the form following:

   

The state of Indiana, sct. To the of . county,
greeting: 1
You are hereby commanded to summon G H, of , to

 

appear before the undersigned, two justices of the peace for the
county of aforesaid, at the hour of , on the
day of , at , in the county aforesaid, then and
there to answer to _, and defend against the complaint of
E F, to us exhibited, wherein he complains that, ‘(here recite
the complaint,) and make to us a return of this summons, with
your proceedings therein, on or before the said day. Given

day of . , 18
8   ‘Justices of the peace.‘

     

   
 

     

Sncr. 188. Such summons shall be served upon the defendant, or a copy thereof left at his usual place of residence, seven
days before the day appointed by the justices for the trial,
exclusive of the days of service and trial; and if after the
service of such summons, the party do not appear to defend,
the justices shall proceed to the inquiry in the same manner as

if he were present.
SE01‘. 189. When the jury shall appear, the justices shall

lay before them the complaint exhibited, and shall administer
the following oath to the foreman and to the other jurors:

F oreman’s oath.

1 You, as foreman of this jury, do solemnly swear (or affirm)
that you will Well and truly try whether the complaint of E F
against G H, now laid before you, is , true, according to the

evidence. i So help you God.

Jurors’ oath.

The same oath (or affirmation) that your foreman has taken
on his part, you and each of you shall observe and keep on
your respective parts. So help you God. ‘

ct Smcr. 190. If the jury find the complaint to be true they
shall return their verdict substantially in the form following:-—
At an inquisition held before A B and C D, esquires, two justices of the peace for the county of and state of Indiana,
at , in the county aforesaid, on the day of
18———, the jury, on their oaths, do find that the lands _(or tenements) described as follows: (here describe as in the complaint)
_ day of , , were in the lawful and
rightful possession of the said E F, and that the said G H did,
on the same day, unlawfully, with force and arms, and strong
hand, enter forcibly upon the same, (or being lawfully upon the
same, did unlawfully and with force and strong band, expel and
keep out the said E F,) and that he still continues wrongfully to
detain the possession from him, the said E F; wherefore, the
jury, upon their oaths (or aH'irmations).as aforesaid, find that the
said E F ought to have restitution thereof without delay. *‘
l Smcr. 191.’ If, by accident or challenge, there shall happen
10w not to be a full jury, the sheriff shall fill the panel from the W‘
standers, as in other cases; and if the jury, after a full hearing
of the cause, shall find" the complaint laid before them supporte
Sign by evidence, they shall all sign their verdict, in the form aforesaid; otherwise, the defendant shall be adjudged his legal costs,

and his execution therefore.

for SECT- 1952- If the jury shall return their V
the whole panel, that the verdict is supported by evidenceilthlg
tto 11V

justices shall enter up judgment for the complainan

 

 

9

 

 

     

erdict, signed bl’

_ ..|._

restitution of the premises, and shall award their writ of restitution accordingly, which writ shall be substantially in the following form :"

The state of Indiana to the of ‘ county, greeting:

Whereas, at an inquisition of forcible entry and detainer, held
before us the undersigned, two justices of the peace for the
county of , in the said state of Indiana, at , in the
county aforesaid, on the day of ——-, 18-, the jurors
empannelled and sworn according to law, returned their verdict in writing, signed by each of them, that E F was, on the
—— day of , 18-, in the rightful possession of a certain
tenement (or tract of land, setting it forth as described in the
verdict,) and that, &;c., (as in the verdict) : Thereupon it was
considered by us, justices as aforesaid, that E F should have
restitution of the said premises: You are thereforee commanded
that, taking with you the force of the county if necessary, you
cause the said G H to be forthwith removed from the premises,
and ‘the said E F to have the peaceable restitution of the same;
and also that you levy of the goods and chattels of the said G
H the sum of , being costs taxed against him on the trial
aforesaid, together with —— for this writ, and your own fees,
and for want of such goods and chattels of the said G H by
you found, you are commanded to take the body of the said G
H, and him commit to the common jail of the said county, there
to remain until he shall pay the sum aforesaid, together with all
fees arising on the service of this writ, or until he be delivered
by due course of law; and make return of this writ, with your
proceedings. Witness our hands and seals at —— aforesaid,

   

   

 

 

   

the day of , 18-.
8]];  5 Justices of the peace.
SECT. 193. Every person who shal be aggrieved by any proceedings which may be had under the provisions of this article,
shall be entitled to an appeal to the circuit court of the same
county, under the same restrictions, and in the same manner,
that appeals are taken from the judgment of justices under the
statute respecting the trial of other causes; and the said circuit
court shall hear and determine such appeal agreeably to the true
intent and meaning of this article, and carry the same into final
execution; but such judgment shall be no bar to any after action brought by either party.T

Sacr. 194. The provisions of this article shall not extend
to _any person who has had the occupancy, or has been in the

quiet possession of any lands or tenements for the space of thi‘ee 1

whole years together, next after the termination of the time for

which the premises were demised or let to him, or the person
under whom he claims.1

ARTICLE VII.

Of distress for rent.

Sermon _
212. If tenant confess and secure Judgment for rent, &,c., property tobe

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

snow
95. Who may distrain: affidavit.

96. Distress may be made after determination of lease, &.c. dischar8‘3d- _ _
97. Constable may levy distress, &,c. 213. Right of property. If clmmed. how
tried.

.98. Property liable to distress.

L99, Provisions as to growing crops, &c.

200. When things annexed to the freehold, &c. may beremoved by the
purchaser.

201. As to bmsts of the plough, implements of husbandry and of trade.

202. Property not liable to distress.

203. Property removed from the premises
may be distrained, &.c.

204.. Provisions in favor of a bona lids
purchaser. '

205. Where beasts shall be impounded.

206. Landlord may feed beasts, &.c. distraiued, and tax defendant there214. Lien in favor of landlord for one
year’s rent, in case of an execution.

215. Landlord‘s claim to beproved before
a justice of the peace. 5&3~ 216. Justice‘s certilicate: appeal

217. Damages in case of unreasonable
distress. _

218. Treble damages if distress dl'lV'3l1
out of the county.

219. Treble damages in case of P°“°d

breach, &.c. _

220. If distress be made when no rent 16
due, injured party shall recover
double the value of the pr0P6l’lY

with.
207. If distress not replevied in five days, taken. _
may be sold. 221. If property be removed to avoltl

208. Oath of appraisers.

209. Compensation.
210. Sale by constable: notice of sale.
211. Further distress allowed, if necessary.

Snow. 195. It shall be lawful for any landlord, his,_l181'a 01%
o

their agent or attorney, to make distress for -rent, by
this article, by obtaining a warrant from some justice of the
peace of the proper township where such distress s _
directed to some constable of said township, to be issued on
complaint upon oath, describing the premises for. which such
rent shall or may be claimed as due and in arrear, in what payable, when due, and the amount thereof; and that he ariul
he shall lose his rent by attempting to collect it as other debts

are collected.*

Sncr. 196. Within six months after the determination of any
lease for life, for years, or of any tenancy at will, any person‘
having any rent upon such premises in arrear, may distrain for
such arrears, either upon any property subject to distress remaining on such premises, or which may have been removed, in
the same manner, and under the same provisions and restrictions, as if such lease or tenancy had not ended, if at the time
any such distress shall be made, the title to or interest in such
premises shall still be in such person.

Sacr. 197. Every such distress shall be made by any constable of the county where such goods are situated, who shall
conduct the execution of such distress throughout.‘

Sr-zcr. 198. The following articles shall be liable to distress
for rent, to-wit : Goods, wares, merchandise, and all other personal chattels which by law are subject to execution, except
such as are hereinafter exempted from distress ; also things annexed, for the purpose of trade or manufacture, to the freehold,or to
any building, and not fixed into the wall of such building, so as
to be essential to its support; also, wheat, corn, or any ind of
grain or grass, whether growing on the demised premises, or
Whether the same be in cocks, or sheaves, or loose in the straw,
in any barn, granary, or elsewhere, upon the land charged with
the rent. 1‘

Snow. 199. All such wheat, corn, rain, or grass, may be appraised, sold, or otherwise disposed 0% according to law, for the
purposes of such distress, in the same manner as any other
goods and chattels of the tenant; and the purchaser thereof
shall have free ingress, egress, and regress to and 1 from the
same, when growing, to repair the fences from time to time, and
when ripe, the same to cut, gather, make, cure, thresh, and carry
away, in like manner as the tenant might have done had such
distress never been made.

Saar. 5200. Thin s annexed to the freehold, or to any building as aforesaid, shalfnot be removed until the same shall have
been sold, when the purchaser shall have the right to enter on
the premises and carry them away.

Snow. 201. Beasts of the plough, sheep, and the implements
of husbandry and of a mechanic’s trade, shall not be distrained
for rent, unless other chattels sufiicient to discharge the rent
cannot be found. I

_ Seer. 202. Personal property exempt by law from execution, or which the tenant, if he were an execution debtor, might
select in lieu of the articles specified as exempt from execution,
or personal property deposited with the tenant, or hired by him,
or ‘em to him, or property of another person than the tenant,
which shall have accidentally strayed or come upon the demised
premises, or which shall have been deposited with a tavernkeeper, or keeper of any ware-house, or other person in the
usual course of his business, or de osited with any mechanic,
or other person, for the purpose of eing repaired or manufactured, or any article manufactured therefrom, shall not be subject to distress or sale for rent; but the officer making the
distress shall not be liable for seizing or selling any such property not belonging to the tenant, unless before such taking or
sale, notice of the claim of a third person be given to such
officer. ‘

S1~:c'r. 203. Any goods or chattels of the tenant which shall
be carried oi? from the demised premises, either before or after
any rent shall become due, such rent being left unpaid, may be
seized as a distress for any rent due at the time of such seizure,
wheresoever they shall be found, at any time within six months
alter such removal; and the goods and chattels so seized shall
be sold, as if they had been distrained upon the demised premises.

Sncr. 204. But no such goods or chattels shall be liable to
be seized, as provided in the preceding section, which shall have
been sold before such seizure, to a purchaser, for a valuable consideration, and who was not privy to such fraudulent removal.

Sncr. Q05. Whenever any beasts are distrained, they shall
be put in an open pound, in the same county where they shall
have been taken, or in some convenient place on the premises,
or in such other place in the county as the otiicor distraining
shall approve.

Sncr. 206. The person causing any beasts to be distrained,
if the tenant will not give them their feeding, may do so for him,

’ and the expense thereof shall be taxed and allowed as a part of

the costs of such distress.

Sncr. 207. When any goods or chattels shall be distrained
for rent, and the tenant, or owner of the goods so distrained:
shall not, within five days after such distress taken and notice
thereof with the cause of such taking shall have been left at
the dwelling house or other most notorious place on the pre'
mises charged with the rent distrained for, replevy the saI_Il3a
with sufiicient surety, as is provided for in the article regulating
the action of replevin, then and in such case, after such distress
and notice as aforesaid, and expiration of the said five days, the
person distraining, or his agent duly authorized, shall and ma)’:

' with the constable executing such warrant, cause the goods and

chattels so distrained to be appraised by two reputable householders.*‘

S_Ecr. 208. Such appraisers shall, before making such 3?‘
praisement, take an oath or atiirmation that they will well and
truly appraise the property thus distrained, to the best of their
skill and judgment; which oath or affirmation said constable I5
fully authorized to administer.

Saar. 209. Said appraisers shall receive for their services
the sum of fifty cents-each for every day thus employed.

Sac-r. 210. Such constable, after such appraisement, shall
proceed to sell the property thus distrained, or so much thereof
as shall be necessary, at public auction, to the highest and best
bidder over and above two-thirds of the appraised value thereof,
for and towards the satisfaction of the rent aforesaid due and
in arrear, for which such property was distrained, and of the
costs and charges of such distress, appraisement, and sale, and
other necessary costs and charges in relation thereto; and if
there be any overplus, the same shall be paid over to the owner
of the property distrained; but before such sale shall be had,
the constable shall give ten days notice of the time and place
thereof, by setting up notices thereof in three of the most public places in the township where such sale is to be made.

Sacr. 211. In all cases of distress for rent, where the value
of the goods distrained shall be found not to be the full value of
the rent distrained for, the party to whom such rent is due and
in arrear, his executors, or administrators, may from time to
time distrain again for the residue thereof.

Sacr. 212. In all cases of distress for rent, if the tenant
will, within ten days after distress made, confess judgment in
favor of the landlord for the amount of the rent due, before
some justice of the peace, and secure the same by sufficient replevin bail to be approved of by such justice of the peace, and
shall also pay all the costs and charges of such distress, the property distrained shall be forthwith discharged and delivered to
such tenant on demand.

Sncr. 213. If any person other than the tenant of the demised premises, shall claim any property which may have been
distrained, pursuant to the provisions of this article, such person may replevy the same, or he may try the right of property,

_ according to the provisions of the law respecting the trials of

the right of pro erty.

Sr-zcr. 214. he goods and chattels of any tenant lying and
being in or upon any messuage, lands, or tenements leased for
life or lives, term of years, or otherwise, which are taken by
virtue of any execution, shall be liable for the payment of all
such sum or sums of money as are or shall be due from such
tenant for rent of the premises, at the time of taking such goods
and chattels by virtue of such execution, not to exceed one
year’s rent; and the said sheriff or other officer shall, after the
sale of the said goods and chattels, pay to the landlord, or other
person empowered to receive the same, such rent so due, if so
_much shall remain in his hands, and apply the overplus thereof,
if any, towards satisfying the debt and costs in such execution
mentioned.

Sncr. 215. Before such payment shall be made by the
sheriff or other officer to the said landlord, he shall prove the
same before a justice of the peace of the proper county, and
such sheriff or other oHicer shall, after having received notice of

such claim, withhold the payment of the money so collected
until such landlord shall have had an opportunity to prove such
claim, for a term of time not exceeding thirty days; and such
execution plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall have six days’
notice of the time and place of making such proof, if such
execution plaintifff, his agent or attorney, reside within the
county; but if such execution plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
do not reside in the county, then notice of the time and place
of making such proof shall be left with the sheriff or other oilicer who may have such execution in his hands. *

Sncr. 216. A certificate from such justice that due proof
has been made by such landlord, shall be sufficient authority for
such sheriff or other officer to pay. the amount, not exceeding
one year’s rent, so proved as aforesaid, to such landlord; and in
all cases of appeal from the decision of such justice, the sheriff
or other officer shall hold such monies in his hands until the
determination of said suit.

SECT. 217. All distresses for any rent shall be reasonable;
and whoever shall take an unreasonable distress for rent, shall
be liable in an action on the case, at the suit of the party aggrieved, for exemplary damages. '

S1:c'r. 218. No property distrained shall be driven out of

‘It the county in which it was distrained, and if so removed, it

. shall be considered a tresspass, and the party aggrieved thereby
shall recover treble damages in an action of trespass quare
clausum fregit.

Sncr. 219. Upon any pound breach or rescue of goods and

:11 chattels or other property distrained for rent, the person 01'
persons aggrieved thereby, shall, in a special action on the case
recover - treble damages against the offender or offenders in any’

. such rescue or pound breach, or against the owner of the goods,
chattels, or other property distrained, in case the -same shall
be found to have come to his use or possession.

. SECT. 220. The owner and the personal representatives of

 the owner of any property distrained for rent pretended to be
due, when in truth no rent was due, may, by an action of tres-' pass on the case, recover against the person so distraining, 01'

is personal representatives, double the value of the goods so

1°11 distrained.T V y

,8 SE01‘. 221. Any tenant or lessee who shall remove his goods
from any demised premises, either before or after his rent shall

 become due, for'the purpose of avoiding the payment of rent,

f and every person who shall knowingly assist such tenant 0?

" lessee in such removal, or in concealing any goo ‘ _
S9 1‘err_10ved, shall forfeit to the landlord of the demised premises,
his heirs, or assigns, the value of the goods so removed or 00”‘
cealed. with double costs of suit.

Sncr. 222. When any distress shall be made for rent justly
due, and any irregularity or unlawful act shall, after such distress, be done by the party distraining or his agent, the distress
shall not thereforee be deemed unlawful, nor shall the party
making it be deemed a trespasser from the beginning, but in
such case the party aggrieved may maintain an action of trespass on the case, and.may recover full satisfaction for the special dam es which he may have sustained by such irregularity
or unlaw ul act, with full costs of suit and no more; unless tender of amends have been made by the party distraining or his
agent before suit brought; which tender of amends shall prevent the recovery of any costs in such action.

SECT. 223. In any action of trespass or trespass on the
case, in relation to any entry upon the demised premises for
the purpose of any distress, or seizure, or sale of any goods
thereupon, or for carrying away any property thus distrained
or sold, the defendant may plead the general issue and give the

special matter in evidence.

 
 

CHAPTER 46.

OF SUITS AND PROCEEDINGS IN. CHANCERY.

ARTICLE 1. Of the courts of chancery jurisdiction; the bill, and process of subpoena;

notice to non-resident and unknown defendants; and some general prot visions respecting the parties to the bill in chancery.

ARTICLE 2. Of the pleadings; taking the bill as confessed; amendments; issues;
hearing; feigned issues; trial; exceptions; and depositions.

Arrrrcu: 3. Of references to a master in chancery.

Anrxcns 4. General provisions respecting decrees, conveyances, and final process.

Anrrcns 5. Of exhibiting interrogatories to the complainant; of making new parties
by the answer; and some general provisions respecting cross bills and
bills of discovery.

Anrrcnrz 6. Of bills of revivor and of review.

ARTICLE 7. Of injunction. .

ARTICLE 8. Of the execution of conveyances by commissioners in C888 Of deceased

vendors of real estate.
Anrtcm: 9. Of the care and custody of idiots, lunatics. and 11183110 P9730113ABTICLE 1.

Of the courts of chancery jurisdiction ; the bill, and process of
subpaena; notice to non-resident and unknown defendants;
and some general provisions respecting partiessto the bill in
chancery.

SBCTIOIW I SECTION
1. Jurisdiction of circuit courts. 3. Powers of courts of chancery. 
2. Jurisdiction of probate courts. 4-. Bill may be filed in term or vacationSECTION

lscnon _
5. Subpaaria. 14. Notice in case names of defendants
6. Infants. are unknown.

15. Cases in which party need not appear.
Costs in such case.

16. Cases in which the court may diepense with making certain persons

'7. If defendant flee, &.c., writ may issue

to another county.
8. Process to another county,when cause

of action is local.

9. Alias process. parties.
10. Jurisdiction when subject matter of 17. ‘Cases in which trustees may represent
action is situate in different counties. persons beneficially interested.

18. Suits to execute the trusts of a will.
19. Complainant in case of a joint and
several demand may proceed against

11. Subpoenas in chancery, how served.
12. Notice to non-resident defendant.Publication. 13. Order of publication by the clerk in one or more of the parties. ,
vacation. 20. Complainant may join defendants

claiming under dilierent titles, 61.0.

SECTION 1. The circuit courts shall have cognizance in all
suits properly cognizable in a court of chancery.’'‘» , _

Snow. 2. The probatecourt shall have jurisdiction in suits
in chancery where such jurisdiction is conferred by law.i

Snow. 3. Such courts sitting in chancery shall have power
to make rules and regulations for the government of proceedings
had before them, and shall in all things be governed by the
known usages of courts of equity,.except where it may be

otherwise provided by law.
Snow. 4. All original. applications to the chancery side of

' either of said courts shall be by bill, which may be filed 111 the
clerk’s office in term time or in vacation.
f subpoena

Sncr. 5. Upon the filing of any such bill process 0‘
shall be issued by the clerk, under the seal of the court, returnable to the first day of the next term. _
Snow. 6. Infantsymay institute, prosecute, and defend suits
in chancery, by a next friend or guardian ad litem, as in suits

at law.1
Seer. 7. When a defendant resides in or flees to anoglerf

' county, process may be directed by the clerk to the sheri .0
such other county, and be executed and returned by such sheriff; but no decree shall be entered against any such defendant, unless a cause of action be established a ainst some 8'

fendant, who is a resident of the ‘county where e suit is prosecuted, except as provided in the next section. _
,0. SE01‘. 8. In all cases where the cause of action IS local, 0T

)f where it shall appear by aiiidavit that the defendant has remove
.1. fI‘0m the county after the filing of the bill, the process may ISSUE

to any other "county for service and return; and decree may be .

thereupon had as in other cases.

SE01‘. 9. When process is returned not executed at the re- _

turn day thereof, the clerk, as a matter of course, may issue
other or further process, without the order of the court, as often
as rtihe same is demanded by the complainant, until service thereof
is ad.

Sncr. 10. Whenever the cause of action is local, and the
subject matter thereof is situate in several counties, the complainant shall have his election in which of such counties he will
commence his suit; and the court of chancery of such county
shall have complete jurisdiction of the whole of such subject
matter.* 1

SECT. 11. The service of all subpoenas shall be by a delivery
of a copy thereof, by the officer serving the same to the defendant personally, or in case of husband and wife, to the husband
personally; or by leaving a copy thereof ‘at the dwelling house
or usual place of abode of the defendant, with some person
who is a member of or resident in the family.

SECT. 12. When it shall appear by aiiidavit filed that any
defendant is not a resident of the state, or when it shall appear
by the return of the oHicer or otherwise that the residence of
any defendant is unknown, or that he so conceals himself that
process cannot be served upon him, the court may grant an order of publication to be made for three weeks successively in
some newspaper of general circulation to notify the defendant
of the pendency of such bill.

Saar. 13. The affidavit of any disinterested and competent
witness may, in any case where a defendant is not a resident of
the state, be filed in vacation with the clerk of the court where
such bill is pending; whereupon such clerk shall cause notice of
the pendency of such suit to be published for three weeks successively in some newspaper of general circulation printed in
the county,.or if none be printed therein, then in the county in
this state nearest thereto where any such newspaper is printed,
notifying such defendant of the pendency of such suit, and that
unless he plead to or answer the same before the calling of the
cause, the bill, as to such defendant, will be taken as confessed.

SECT. 14. In cases where it shall be necessary to make any
persons defendants to any bill, and the names of all ‘or any of
them shall be unknown to the complainant, and he shall annex
to his bill an affidavit of his want of knowledge of the names
of such persons, and that their residence is, as he verily believes,
not in this state, proceedings may be had against them without
naming them, and the court shall make such order respecting
notice and the publication thereof as they may deem proper.

. SEc'r. 15. Where no account, payment, conveyance, or other
direct relief is sought against a party to a suit, not being an inpccna upon him, need
wer the bill unless the plaintifff specially require him so to do by the prayer of his bill ; but he may appear
and answer at his option ; and if he do not appear and answer, he

shall be bound by all the proceedings in the cause: if the plaintifff shall require him to appear and answer, he shall be entitled

to the costs of all the proceedings against him, unless the court

shall otherwise direct.
Snow. 16. When the parties on either side are very numerous,
and cannot, without manifest inconvenience and‘oppressive de. lays in the suit, be all brought before the court, such court, in
- its discretion, may dispense with making all of them parties, and
may proceed in the suit, having properly before it sufficient parties to represent all the adverse interests of the plaintiffis and
the defendants in the suit; but in such case the decree shall

be without prejudice to the rights and claims of all the omitted

parties?‘
h SEc'r. 17.
ed in trustees by devise,
1. and give discharges for the p

rents and profits of the estate,
persons beneficially interested in the estate, or in the proceeds or
the rents and profits, in the same manner and to the same extent
as the executors or administrators in suits concerning personal

estate represent the persons beneficially interested in such personal estate; and? in such cases, it shall not be necessary to
make the persons beneficially interested in such real estate or

rents and profits parties to the suit; but the court may, upon
if it shall think fit,

fant, the party, up
not appear and ans

"In all suits concerning
and such trustees are competentto se

roceeds of the sale and for the
such trustees shall represent the

-m Snow. 18. In suits to execute the
3 not. be necessary to make the heir a ;.but the complainant shall be at liberty to make

. when he desires to have the w
mn Sacr. 19. In all cases in which the comp _ _
' as principals

.t _ and several demand against several persons, e

.y or sureties, it shall not be necessary to" brin before the courts

‘“‘s‘ as parties to a suit concerning such demand, a 1 the persons ha f
o

f

Bela. thereto; but the plaintifff may proceed against one or more
the persons severally liable.

.nt SECT. 20. The complainant may make as many defendants

gag to his bill as he may think proper although they may ‘-43"“
, d as to any 0119

ties. under different titles; but if the bill be dismisse
. . .........m the suit

of such defendants, or a decree be entered in his favor, he shall be
entitled to his costs, unless the court, for special reasons, deem 3
It right to determine otherwise.’

 

ARTICLE II.

Of the pleadings: taking the bill as confessed: ainendments:
issues: hearing: feigned issues .- trial: exceptions: and
depositions.

Sscrxon SECTION
21. When the bill may be taken as con- 29. On failure to plead, &,c. may enter a

fessed for want of an answer: dlla- a decree, &c. or give time.

tory plea, &,c. ' 30. Case in which replication is not no22. If bill be taken as confessed, the de- cessary.

cree may be set aside on terms, &,c. 31. A rejoinder not necessary. 3

23. Amendment of the bill before answer. 32. Demurrers. P1638. and 8Il8W9l'8«

24. Amendment of the bill after answer, 33. Proceedings on plea and demurrer.
but before the cause is set down for 34. Case in which demurrer or plea shall

hearing. ' not be overruled.
25. Amendment of the bill after the 35. Same subject.» '
cause is set down for hearing. 36. Rule, that if the defendant submit to
26. If amendment by leave not filed in answer, he shall answer fully, shall
time, how regarded. no longer apply, where he might
27. If bill amended after answer, defend- protect himself by plea,.&c., and he
ant shall answer in such time as the may by answer insist 011 all matters
court may direct. a of defense in bar, &,c.

28. Pleadings. l '

terror: SECTION

37. Same subject. 53. If exceptions allowed, defendantshall

£8. May decline answering certain inte- ‘ answer at the time directed by the
rogatories, &.c. ‘ . court: attachment.

39. Course of proceeding in case answer 54. How discharged from attachment.
suggest that the bill is defective for 55. Costs, in case further answer is inwant of parties. sufiicient: course of proceeding in
40. Same subject. such case.
41. Objection at hearing for want of par- 56. Costs, when exceptions overruled, or
ties, how court may decree. answer deemed insufficient.
42. Amendment of answer before repli- 57. Set-off.
cation, &.c. 58. Pleadings may be lodged with the
43. After replication. clerk, &.c. : when deemed filed. '
44. Answer on oath: effect. 59. Clerk shall endorse time of filing.
45. Before whom answer may be sworn 60. Parties to take notice of filing anto. swers, due. at their peril.
46. If sworn to out of the state, how 61. Trial of issues at law.
certified. 62. F eigned issue notnecessary: noteand
47. Answer and demurrer: cannot pro- entry.
ceed on answer until demurrer dis- 63. Trial by jury, when had.
posed Of. 64. Term at which cause shall stand for
48. As to an answer when the demurrer hearing.
or plea is overruled. 65. If both parties fail to appear. court
49. Costs of plea or demurrer. may dismiss or continue cause.
50. Cause may stand for hearing on bill 66. Petition for rehearing, when filed.
and answer. 67. Depositions, when taken.
51. Exceptions set down for hearing. 68. How taken.
52. Time may be enlarged for filing exceptions. Sncr. 21. When process has been served thirty days, or
publication made sixty days before the term, the defendant shall
plead or answer on or before the second day of such term, an
in default thereof, the bill may be taken as confessed against
him, unless the court, for sufiicient cause, shall allow further
time; but no special demurrer or dilatory plea shall he suffered

to be filed after such second day of the term.

SE01‘. 22. When the bill is taken as confessed, the C011“
may proceed to a decree at the same term; and such decree.
When rendered, shall be deemed absolute, unless the court Sl'l_8ll9
at such term, set aside the same, or enlarge the time for filing
an answer upon cause shewn, upon motion and affidavit of the
defendant; and no such motion shall be granted unless upon the
payment of the costs of the complainant up to that time, 01'
such part thereof as the court shall deem reasonable, and unless
the defendant shall undertake to file his answer within such time
as the court shall direct, and submit to such other terms as the
court shall require, for the purpose of speeding the cause.

f Snow. 23. Before answer, plea, or demurrer filed, the C011?!‘
plamant may amend his bill, without leave of the court; but ‘f
such amendment be during the term, or within thirty days Pr?‘
vrous thereto, the defendant may have a continuance of the suit,
and time to plead, answer, or demur, until the next term of the
court.

Sncr. 24. After an answer, plea, or demurrer is put in, and
before the cause is ordered to be set down for hearing, the complainant, by leave of the court obtained on motion, may amend
his bill within such time as the court shall allow, upon the payment of costs, as the court in its discretion may direct.

Snow. 25. After the cause is ordered to be set down for
hearing, and before the hearing thereof, the complainant may be
permitted by the court to amend his bill; but he shal not in
such case obtain leave to amend, except upon a special 0 der of
the court, on petition alleging the s ecial matter of amendment
intended to be made, and supporte by affidavit that the matter
of the pro osed amendment is material, and could not with reasonable di igence have been sooner introduced into the bill, and
that such application is not made for vexation or delay.

Sncr. 26. If the complainant obtaining any order to amend
his bill, as provided in the last two sections, shall not file his
amendments or amended bill, as the case may require, in the
clerk’s office, on or before the time allowed therefore, he shall be
considered to have abandoned the same; and the cause shall
proceed as if no application for any amendment had been
made.

SECT. 27. In every case where an amendment of the bill
shall be made after answer filed, and an answer thereto is necessary, the defendant shall put in a new or supplemental answer, within such reasonable time, at the same, or at or before
the ensuing term, as the court may direct; and in default thereof, the like proceedings may be had as in cases of a failure to
put in an original answer.

SECT. 28. If the defendant plead, answer, or demur, the
complainant shall reply, and the defendant rejoin, until the
issues in law or of fact shall be joined. . _

SECT. 29. If either party fail to complete the issue on _his
part, the court for such failure may enter a decree against him,
or in their discretion give further time for the completion of the
issues.

Snow. 30. Where no special replication to an answer is nocessary, the issue may be deemed to be made up by bill and
answer.‘

SECT. 31. When a replication is filed, the case shall be considered at issue, and it shall not be necessary to rejoin in any
case. *‘

SECT. 32. The defendant may, at any time before the bill is»
taken for confessed, or afterwards with the leave of the court,
demur or plead to the whole bill, or to part of it, and he may
demur to part, plead to part, and answer to the residue; but in
every case in which the bill specially charges fraud or combination, a plea to such part must be accompanied with an answer fortifying the plea, and explicitly denying the fraud and
combination, and the facts on which the charge is founded.

Seer. 34. No demurrer or» plea shall be held bad, and overruled upon argument, only because such demurrer or plea shall
not cover so much of the bill as it might by law have extended to.
Snow. 35. No demurrer or plea shall be held bad and overruled upon argument, only because the answer ‘of the defendant
may extend to some part of the same matter which may be

covered by such demurrer or plea. _
SECT. 36. The rule that if a defendant submit to answer, he

shall answer fully to all the matters of the bill, shall no longer
apply in cases where he might by plea protect himself from such
» answer and discovery; and he shall be entitled in all cases by
answer" to insist upon all matters of defense, (not being matters
of abatement, or to the character of the parties, or matters Of
L form,) in bar of or to the merits of -the bill, of which he may be
entitled to avail himself by a plea in bar.

SE01‘. 37. In such answer, he shall not be compellable to answer any other matters than he would be compellable to answer
and discover upon filing a plea in bar, and an answer _in support
of such plea, touching the matters set forth in the bill to avoid

or repel the bar or defense.
Seer. 38. ‘ A defendant shall be at liberty by answer to de:°_ cline answering any interrogatory, or part of an interrogatoryo

from answering which he might have protected himself by flemurrer; and he shall be at liberty so to decline, notwithstanding
he shall answer other arts of the bill, from which he might
have protected himself y demurrer.

.. Sacr. 39. Where the defendant shall by his answer suggest

3 that the bill is defective for want of parties, the complainant
shall be at liberty to set down the cause for argument upon 1119-‘
objection only, and the purpose for which the same is so set
down shall be entered in the clerk’s order book, in the f0I'm_ 01'
to the effect following: “ set down upon the defendant’s Oblec‘

tion for want of parties.”

;, Snow. 40. When the complainant shall not so set down his

cause, but shall proceed therewith to a hearing, notwithstanding
an objection for want of parties taken by the answer, he 31331
not at the hearing of the cause, if the defendant’s 0b]6Ct'°”
shall then be allowed, be entitled as of course, to an ofder_f".r
liberty to amend his bill by adding parties ; but the court; 1f ‘t
think fit, shall be at liberty to dismiss the bill. a

Sac-r. 41. If the defendant, at the hearing of a cause, object
that the suit is defective for want of parties, not having by plea
or answer taken the objection, and therein specified by name
or description, the parties to whom the objection applies, the
court, if it think fit, shall be at liberty to make a decree

saving the rights of the absent parties.
Snow. 42. After an answer is put in, it may be amended as

of course, in any matter of form, or by filling up a blank, or
correcting a date or reference to a document, or other small
matter, and be resworn at any time before a replication is put
in, or the cause is set down for a hearing upon bill and answer.

Snow. 43. After replication or such setting down for a
hearing, the answer shall not be amended in any material matters,
or by adding new facts or references, or by qualifying or altering
the original statements, except by special leave of the court
upon motion and cause shown, supported, if required, by afIidavit; and in every case where leave is so granted, the court
may, in their discretion, require that such amendment be separately engrossed and added as a distinct amendment to the
original answer so as to be distinguishable therefrom.

Seer. 44. All answers shall be upon oath or affirmation;
and if the answer deny the material allegations in the bill, the
complainant shall not have a decree, unless such allegations be
proved by two witnesses, or by one witness and corroborating

circumstances. " _
SECT. 4.5. Every defendant may swear or afhrm to his answer before any judge, or clerk of a circuit court, justice of the

peace, master in chancery, or notary public. _
SECT. 46. If the answer be sworn or affirmed to without

this state, it may be sworn or affirmed to before any clerk or
prothonotary of a court of record, notary public, mayor or recorder of a-city, or justice of the peace; and if such officer
have a seal, his official attestation with the seal of his office
affixed, or if he shall not have such a sea], then his ofiicial certificate, with the certificate of the prothonotary or clerk of some
court of record of the same county, shall be sufficient to entitle

such answer to be received by the court.

Seer. 47. If the defendant file an answer and demurrer, the
‘ complainant shall not proceed on the answer till the demurrer
shall ‘have been argued or disposed of.
Sacr. 48. If a plea or demurrer be overruled, no other plea
‘or demurrer shall be thereafter received without leave of the
court; and in case a plea be overruled, the bill may be
taken as confessed, and if so done the court shall proceed to
decree thereon; or an answer may be received by the court on
an affidavit of merits, and that such plea was not filed for delay; and if a demurrer be overruled, the defendant shall be
ordered to answer.* i
SEc'r. ‘ 49. If the plea or demurrer be allowed, the complainant shall pay costs; and if overruled, the defendant shall pay
costs.
Saar. 50. If the complainant wish to file exceptions or a
ireplication to the answer, he shall do so at such time as the
court shall require; or on failure thereof, such cause shall stand
for hearing on the bill and answerfr
S1:-:c'r. 51. When exceptions are filed, the complainant shall
cause them to be set down for a hearing at such time as the
court shall direct; and if he shall not so set them down, the
exceptions shall be deemed to be abandoned, and the answer
shall be demed to be sufficient.
Snow. 52. The court may enlarge the time for filing excep7 tions, or for hearing the same, upon such terms as may be
deemed reasonable.
Saar. 53. If, at the hearing, the exceptions shall be allowed
~' the defendant shall be bound to put in a full and complete answer at the time ruled by the court; otherwise the plaintifff shall
as of course be entitled to take the bill, so far as the matter of
such exceptions is concerned, as confessed; or, at his election,
he may have a writ of attachment to compel the defendant to
make a better answer to the matter of the exceptional

Szrcr. 54. The defendant, when he is in custody upon such
writ, shall not be discharged therefrom but by an order of the
court, upon his putting injsuch answer and complying with
such other terms as the court may direct. -.

Snow. 55. If a second or further answer be adjudged insufiicient, the defendant shall pay double costs; and in such
case further time to answer shall not be allowed, and the bill
shall be taken as confessed, as if no answer had been filed; or
the defendant may be committed on attachment as provided in
the last two preceding sections. .

SECT. 56. If upon argument the complainant’s exceptions to
the answer shall be overruled, or the answer shall be adjudged
insufiicient, the prevailing party shall be entitled to all the costs
occasioned thereby, unless otherwise‘ directed by the court at
the hearing upon the exceptions. ,

Sncr. 57. In suits in chancery for the payment or recovery
of money, set"-offs shall be allowed in like manner and with like
effect as in suits at law.*

Seer. 58. Either party may lodge his answer, exceptions,
or other pleadings with the clerk in vacation; but they shall
not be considered as filed until noted on the order book in term,
unless such answer, exceptions, or other pleading he required
by the court to be filed in vacation, on or before a day specified.

Snow. 59., The clerk shall endorse on all the papers filed in
any cause the time of their tiling; but it shall not be necessary
to copy them on the order book.

Seer. 60. Parties to suits J11 chancery shall take notice, at
their peril, of the filing of answers, pleas, demurrers, replications, and other pleadings, and of the pronouncing and signing
of decrees.

Snow. 6]. Issues in law shall stand for trial as soon as they
are made up. .

SECT. 62. It shall not be necessary to make up a feigned
issue; but whenever a question arises which, according to the
usage, practice, and discretion of courts of chancery, ought to
be referred to a jury for trial, the court may cause a comprehensive note and entry of the matter so to be tried, to be made;

and the verdict of the jury- thereon shall be taken for the information of the court.”

Snow. 63. Where an issue or the matter for trial embraced
in such comprehensive note and entry is to be tried by a jury,
the court, if the parties do not agree, shall direct the trial to be
had as soon as circumstances will admit.

Sacr. 64. When no depositions are to be taken, the cause
shall stand for hearing at the term at which the issue shall have
been completed; but when depositions are to be taken, the cause
shall stand for hearing at the term next after the .completion of

the issue, unless the court, for good cause shown, grant further

time.T

Saccr. 65. If at any time the complainant fail to prosecute
and the defendant fail to appear, the court may dismiss the bill
or continue the cause, at their discretion.

SECT. 66. Petitions for rehearing shall be preferred at the

term of the court at which the‘ order or decree complained

of was made; and such petition shall be heard and the prayer

thereof allowed or disallowed, at the same or any subsequent ‘

term.
SECT. 67. The complainant may take depositions in thirty

days after the subpoena has been executed or publication made;
and the defendant may take depositions as soon as his answer

is filed. ; .
Snow. 68. Depositions may be taken before the same officers

or under like commissions, and in like manner, and subject to
the same rules and regulations of law, as provided in the case
of depositions in suits at law.I

 

iARTICLE III.

Of references to masters in chancery.

SECTION Sac-non

69. Matter referred, at what time present- 71. Master shall proceed without delay.
ed to the master. '72. Authority and powers of the master70. Master shall assign time and place 73. How accounting parties shall bring
for proceeding therein. in their accounts.

Sscrron Sscrrox
74. Depositions, &.c. in court may be used 78. His report filed in clerk‘s office.

before the master. 79. Exceptions to the report.
75. May examine creditor coming in to 80. When heard.
claim, &.c. 81. Costs of exceptions.
76. Evidence before the master may be 82. Fees and costs before the master.
taken down, if required. 83. Court may require masters, trustees,
77. Matters which need not be recited in receivers, &c. to give bond.
the master’s report. 84. To whom payable.

Snow. 69. Whenever a reference of any matter is made to
a master in chancery to examine and report thereon, the party
at whose instance or for whose benefit the reference is made,
shall cause such matter to be presented to the master for a hearing within the time limited by the court for such hearing; and
if such party shall omit so to do, the adverse party shall be at
liberty forthwith to cause proceedings to be had before the master at the costs of the party procuring the reference.

Snow. 70. Upon every such reference it shall be the duty of
the master, as soon as he reasonably can after the same is
brought before him, to assign a time and place for proceeding
therein, and to give due notice thereof to each of the parties
or their counsel; and if either party shall fail to appear at the
time and place appointed, the master shall be at liberty to proceed ex parts, or in his discretion to adjourn the examination
and proceedings to a future day, giving notice to the absent
party or his counsel of such adjournment. _

Seer. 71. It shall be the duty of the master to proceed with
all reasonable diligence in every such reference, and with the
least practicable delay; and either party shall be at liberty to
apply to the court for an order to the master to speed the proceedings, and to make his report, and to certify to the court the
reasons for any delay.

S1-‘.c'r. 72. The master shall regulate all the proceedings in
every hearin before. him, upon every such reference; and he
shall have ful authority,

1. To examine the parties in the cause upon oath touching
all matters contained in the reference ;

5.’. Torequire the production of all books, papers, writings,
vouchers, and documents relating to such matters;

3. To examine on oath, viva voce, all witnesses produced by
the parties before him ;

_4. To order the depositions of witnesses, to be read before
him, to be taken under a dedimus, to be issued upon his certificate, frorn the clerk’s office; such depositions to be taken as in
other cases ;

5. When not specially instructed by the court, he shall direct
the mode in which the matters requiring evidence shall be proved
before him;

6. To administer all oaths and atiirmations, and generally to
do all other acts and direct all other inquiries and proceedings
in the matters before him Which may be necessary and propel‘
to the justice and merits of the case and the rights of the parties,

SECT. 73. All persons accounting before a master shall bring
in their respective accounts in the form of debtor and creditor;
and any of the other parties, who shall not be satisfied with the
accounts so brought in, shall be at liberty to examine the accounting party, viva voce, or upon interrogatories filed with the
master, or by deposition, as the master shall direct.

Snow. 74. All aiiidavits, depositions, and documents, which
have been previously made, read, or used in the court, upon any
proceeding in any cause or matter, or when so directed by the
court, may be used before the master. A

SECT. 75. The master shall be at liberty to examine any
creditor or other person coming in to claim before him, either
upon written interrogatories or viva voce, or in both modes, as

the nature of the case may appear to him to require.

Sncr. 76. The evidence upon any such examination shall be
r taken down by the master, or by some other person by his order

in his presence, if either party require it, in order that the same
may be used by the court if necessary.
I Snow. 77. In the reports made by the master to the court,
’ no part of any ‘stateiof facts, charge, deposition, affidavit, exa. mination, or answer, brought in or used before him, shall be
stated or recited; but such state of facts, charge, affidavit, deposition, examination, or answer shall be identified, specified,
and referred to, so as to inform the court what -state of facts,
charge, affidavit, deposition, examination, or answer were so
brought in or used. .l
Sr-.cr. 78. The master, as soon as his report isvready, shall

return the same into the clerk’s office; and such report shall be
filed by the clerk and the return thereof noted on the order book
of ~the court. 7

SECT. 79. Exceptions to the report of the master shall be
filed within such time as the court shall allow; and if no exceptions be filed within such time, the report shall stand confirmed. ~ ' '

S1-:c'r. 80. Such exce tions shall stand for hearing at the
term at which they are filed, or if they are filed in vacation: at
the term next after such filing. ‘ Sncr. 81. Costs on allowing and overruling exceptions shall
be paid by the party against whom thocourt shall direct the
same to be taxed. »
as SF-CT. 82. {The fees of witnesses before the.master,and
us- issuing process for their attendance, shall be the same as allowed
in cases in the circuit court; and for all matters’ and services
done by the master, or which shall accrue out of court on 116'
count of such reference, and for which no fee is fixed hY law’
the court shall allow a reasonable compensation; and all such

fees and costs shall constitute a part of and be taxe with the

costs of such cause.
re_ Sncr. 83. The court may require masters in chancef
rs, all commissioners to dispose of property real and personal, W5‘

't0 tees and receivers, when the same IS not otherwise provided h}'

for

yand

law, to give bond and surety in such manner and with such penalty, for the payment over of all monies which may come to
their hands, and for the due performance of their duties as the

court shall direct.

Sscr. 84. Such bond shall be made payable to the state of
Indiana, and shall be for the benefit of all persons affected or
aggrieved by any act or mal-conduct of the person required to
give such bond; and suits may be maintained, and judgment
given therein, as in the case of bonds of officers or trustees who

are required by law to give bond.

ARTICLE IV.

General provisions respecting decrees, conveyances, and final

process.
SECTION Sr-zcrron
85. Effect of decree. 94. Affidavit for writ of attachment, if
86. Effect of a decree for a conveyance, decree not complied with, and
&.c. proceedings thereon.
87. Commissioners or master to execute 95. Writ of sequestration.
conveyance of real estate. 96. Decree for possession, &.c. of real
88. Effect of conveyance. estate, how enforced.
89. As to attachment, sequestration, 97. Liability of sheriff, &.c.
&.c. p ‘ 98. Parties not personally notified may
90. Process on decree for payment of open decree within five years.
money or costs. 99. Notice in such case to the complain9l. Stay of execution. ant.
92. Appraisement of property on e.xe- 100. Property which may have passed to
‘ cution. ‘ aninnocent purchaser notaffected
93. Decree for performance of specific by Opening Such decreeact.

SE01‘. 85. The decree of a court of chancery shall, from the
time it is pronounced, have the force, effect, and operation of a
judgment at law.

Sacr. 86. When a decree shall be made for a conveyance,
release, or acquittance, and the party against whom such decree
IS made does not comply therewith by the time specified, such decree shall be considered, deemed, and taken, in all courts of law
and equity, to have the same operation, force and effect, and be
as available in every respect as if the conveyance, release, or
acguittance had been executed conformably to such decree. "

nor. 87. Whenever the court shall deem the same necessary, they may appoint a commissioner or commissioners to
execute a conveyance of real estate, to the person entitled
thereto, and may. require such commissioner or commissioners
to report, at such time as the court shall prescribe; or the court
may direct such conveyance to be made and reported by a master in chancery.

Snow. 88. Such conveyance
and approved by the court, an
and shall vest all the title to the pre
the alienee or grantee, as
could and ought to vest by virtue of the de
which such conveyance was executed.

Snow. 89. Courts exercising chancery j
power to enforce their decrees, orders,

attachment against
' ' t his goods and chattels,
f as may from time to
sary;
in contempt of any decree,
consistent with the usages an
SECT. 90.
, ment of money,
process for the co
used in cases of judgment
of assumpsit."
Saar. 91. Whenever any
sum of money, the defendant s

cution thereon, upon enter:
law.T
SEc'r. 92.

d pursuan
a writ of execution issued on any such

must be appraised and sold, subject to
upon executions at lavv.‘_’;
Snow. 93. If a decree be for the p
ments,

order, rule,
d practice 0

Whenever any property,

['0
act, as for example, the execution 0
very up of deeds or other docu
such cases prescribe the time w
performed.

*1 SEc'r. 94.

,3; the party entitled t

l of the court has no
may issue against the delinquent party,
he shall not be discharged, unless upon
the decree, or unless he be discharge

Upon an affidavit being fnl

t been complied with

fully and completel

and rules,
the party in contempt,

and also to inflict such punishment upon any
or process,

Whenever a decree is exc
and In all cases where costs

llection thereof may be th

s at law in the circu

ng replevin bai

t to the,decree of a court of chancery,

ithin which the

0 have such act done, stating th

from which,

d by a special order

shall be acknowledged before
(I spread upon the order book,
mises conveyed thereby, in

y as the same
cree, in pursuance of
ion shall have
by process of
or by process of send tenements,
found necesperson being
as may be
f courts of chancery.
lusively for the payare decreed, final
e same which IS
it court, in actions

urisdict

lands a
time be

decree is‘ for the payment of a
hall be entitled to a stay of exel as in judgments at

real or personal, is sold

by virtue of

such property
raisement, as

decree,
such app

erformance of any specific

a conveyance,
the decree s

deliact shall be

the court by
at the decree

, a writ 0

ed before

a full. complianc

court, upon motion and affidavit, enlarging the time for the per- .

formance of such decree.

Snow. 95. If such delinquent party cannot be found, upon '
that fact being returned by the officer to whom such writ is di- ‘

rected, a writ of sequestration, on the order of the court to that
effect, shall issue against the estate of such party, to compel
obedience to the decree.

Snow. 96. VVhenever, by virtue of any decree, possession of
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, is to be delivered to any
party, the court may enforce obedience to its decree upon process, as in case of a judgment at law, whereby the delivery of
possession is enforced.

Snow. 97. If any sheriff or other officer to whom any process, writ, rule, or order of the court, is directed or delivered,
shall not make service or return thereof according to law, or
according to the tenor of such process, writ, rule, or order, such
officer, unless the same shall have been stayed, shall be deemed
to be in contempt, for which he may be attached and fined. by
the court.

Snow. 98. Parties against whom a decree has been rendered, '
without other notice than the publication in the newspaper ‘
herein required, may, at any time within five years after the i
rendition of such decree, have such decree opened, and be let
in to defend and to a hearing.

SECT. 99. But before any such decree shall be opened, such
party shall give such notice to the original complainant, or his
heirs, devisees, executors, or administrators, of his intention to
make application to have the decree opened, as the court in
term, or the president judge thereof in vacation, shall require;
and such arty shall also file a full answer to the original bill,
and an a davit stating that during the pendency of such bill
he received no actual notice thereof in time to appear in
court and object to such decree, and shall also pay all such costs
of the suit as the court shall direct.

Snow. 100. If any real or personal property, which was the
subject of any decree sought to be opened, as provided in the
two last preceding sections, shall have passed into the hands of
a purchaser in good faith, he shall not be affected by any proceedings consequent upon the opening of such decree.

ARTICLE‘ v’.

Of exhibiting interrogatories to the complainant: of making new

parties by the answer: and some general provisions respecting
cross bills and bills of review.

SECTION . Sscrrox
101. Defendant may exhibit interrogato- 102. Defendant may bring new party
rice to the complainant. before the court by his answersubpoena.

lscrion SECTION
103. Defendant’s answer may require law, defendant may be examined

complainant to answer new matter. viva voce before the jury.
104. Complainant's answer. 108. Defendant to bill in such case, may

105. Cross bill against the original com- state fully all matters, etc. .
plainant, etc., and defendant’s an- 109. Such discovery shall not subyect
swer to original bill. defendant to criminal prosecution.

106. The answer of the complainant, ’ 110. Power of court to enforce such exahow used. rnination.
107. Bill of discovery for the purpose of
reading the answer on a trial at

SECT. 101. The defendant, after he shall have filed his {inswer, .may exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, which
shall be answered by- such complainant on oath or affirmation;
and his answers thereto shall be evidence in the cause in the
same manner and to the same effect as the defendantfs answer
to the bill; and if the complainant shall not answer such interrogatories by the time appointed by the court, he shall be in contempt,
and his bill shall be dismissed with costs, unless the coui'tsf°"
sufiicient cause shown, shall enlarge the time for such answers;
and such answers may be excepted to as in case of an answer,
and with the like effect. A T ,

. SECT. 102. V/Vhen it is necessary for the defendant to bring
- a new party before the court, he may state the matter relating
thereto in his answer, and. insert new interrogatories for such
new party to answer and pray relief; and thereupon ‘a subpmna
shall issue,and other proceedings be had against him as if such matter had been exhibited by bill. ‘
Seer. 103. The defendant may introduce any new matter
I_ in his answer and pray relief, and call upon -the coniplainanl
L- to answer the same on oath.
SECT. 104. The complainant shall file his answer under ll“?
3 same regulations as in the case Of 3 defendant 3U5VV_e1'"1S the

bill, except that such complainant may answer immediately. 0'9

if he desire it, he shall be entitled, to a continuance of the cause.

and have until the second day of the next term to file his

answer. - .

_ Sizer. 105. When a defendant files a cross bill for CllSc0V8l'y
:1; only against the complainant in the original bill, such defendant
' shall first answer the original bill before the original complainA ant shall be compelled to answer the cross bill. _
in SECT. 106. The answer of the original complaina _
cross bill ‘may be read and used by,‘ the party 51108 the
cross bill, at the hearing, in the same manner and underlhti
same restrictions as the answer praying relief, ,
and used. .
)ve- SI-zcr. I07. When a bill for discovery is filed for the P“?
"I pose of reading the answer of the respondent in a trial at 3“:
[,3 the party filing such bill, instead of requiring an answer
Ia filed, may examine the respondent viva voce before theajlgg

touching the matters alleged in such bill respecting which

covery is sought, leaving the credibility of the respondent to
the jury as in case of witnesses.

Snczr. 108. In such case the respondent, under the direction
of the court, shall be permitted to state fully all matters relating to or explanantory of the subject matter of such discovery.

SECT. l09._ Whenever a discovery of any matter of fraud
is sought, the answer of any party or his statements on a viva
voce examination, as provided in the last two preceding sections,
shall not be admissible as testimony against him in any criminal
prosecution on account of any such alleged fraud; nor shall he
be-liable to any fine, penalty, or imprisonment, for any offense
or crime disclosed in his answer or on such examination.”

Sncr. 110. The courtshall have the same power to enforce
any such viva voce examination, that they have to compel an
answer in chancery by attachment.

ARTICLE VI.
Of bills if revivor and of review. ‘

SECTION SECTION

111. Where such bills shall be filed. 120. Requisites of bill of revivor or of
112. Party dying, how suit my be re. supplemental bill.

vived. 121. Bill of review.
113. Same subject, 122. Review upon matters of law.
114- iling of bill-—process. ‘ 123. For new matters.
115. When a suit may be revived by an 124. Court, in case of bill of review,

order of court. ' 1113)’ Sm? PT°°°eding3 0" fame"
116. Copy of order, how served. decree117. Same subject. 125. Snretyin such case ‘
118. Order, by what court or judge made. 126. If proceedings not stayed, former
119. Length of time of notice or service decree complied Wilhof process, before court shall proceed in such case.

SECT. 111. Bills of revivor and of review shall ‘be filed and 2
prosecuted in the court where the record in the original cause 5
remains.’r , ,

SECT. 112. When any suit in chancery is pending, andi
either party thereto shall die, the same may be revived for or

against the executors or administrators, heirs, legatees, or de0 0

visees of the deceased, as any suit under like circumstances
may be revived at laW.*

Smcr. 113. Whenever a suit in chancery shall become
abated by the death of either party, or by any ‘other event, the
same may be revived by a bill of revivor, or a bill in the nature
of a bill of revivor, as the circumstances of the case may require, filed by the proper parties entitled to revive the same.

. SECT. 114. Such bill may be filed in the clerk’s office at
any time, and the proper process of subprena shall, as of course,
be issued by the clerk, requiring the proper representatives of
the other party to appear and show cause, if any they have,
why the suit shall not be revived; and if no cause be shown,
such suit shall stand revived as of course.

SECT. 115. When a suit has abated after answer and before a

.5 a decree, it may be revived in the name of the persons or parties to or against whom the right of action, in such case, survived, without a bill of revivor upon an order of the court to
that effect.

~, Sncr. 116. Upon obtaining such order against the representatives of a defendant, a copy thereof shall be served upon such
representatives, if they reside within the state; or if they do
not reside or cannot be found within the state, or their names
are unknown, such order of revivor shall be published in some
public newspaper, as in other cases of non-resident or unknown
defendants.

SECT. 117. When such order of revivor is in favor of the
representatives of the complainant, a copy of the order shall be
served upon the defendant, or published in some public newspaper in like manner and in like cases as when process or pubication is required at the commencement of a suit.

om ‘ SEc'r._118. Such order of revivor may be made as well by

the president judge or the two associate judges in vacation, an
entered on the order book and signediby them, as the same may
be done during the term. .o ~

'.lIIl8 SE01‘. l_19. The court shall not proceed in any cause SOUS“

?pm_ to be revived according to the provisions of this article, unles-‘3

the It appear that the process, order, or notice has been served_ on

pro- the adverse party, or published for the length of time previous

" to the term, which is required by law in case of process 01'
publication in the commencement of a suit in chancery. _

.of Snow. 120. It shall not be necessary in any bill of revivor

 0r_supplemental bill, to set forth any of the statements in the

origi_ual'suit, unless the special circumstances of the case mi‘-Y

require it.

View. SEC'I‘- 121. Any person who was a party to a decree_0f3
court of chancery, his heirs, devisees, executors or adminIst_f11'
tors, may file a bill for a review of the proceedings 1'
such decree was rendered, at any time within five ye:

after the rendition of the decree; unless the person entitled to .
prosecute such bill of review was an infant, a married woman, '

or an insane person, in which case such bill may be filed and
maintained within five years after the removal of such disability;
but no such bill of review shall lie to a decree of divorce.

Saar. 122. If the bill for a review be brought upon error
of law, appearing in the body of the decree, or in the proceed‘
ings themselves, it may be filed as an original bill as a matter of
course.

Srccr. 123. If the bill for review be brought upon the discove of new matter since the hearing of the former decree,
sue bill shall not be filed except with leave of the court.

Sizer. 124. In case of a bill of review, the court may, at
their discretion, on motion, stay the proceedings ‘on the former
decree until the further order of the court, or until final decree
be made on the bill for review; but such motion must be made
at the term at which leave to file such bill is granted, or, if filed
in vacation, at the first term after such filing. »

Sncr. 125. If proceedin s in the former decree are directed
to be stayed, the court shal direct sureties to be given, as in
cases of appeals, or of injunctions to stay proceedings at law.

Sncr. 126. If the court do not direct the proceedings to be
stayed, the party against whom such former decree was rendered shall fully comply therewith as if no such bill for review
had been filed; and in such case the court may, in their discretion, require surety for costs to be given on the bill for review.

 

ARTICLE VII.

Of injunctions.

Sscrrou SECTION
127. Injunctions, by what court or judges 141 If money collected by sheriff before
and in what cases granted, injunction, may be refunded, &.c.
128. Jurisdiction of the judges. 142. If sheriff fail to refund, he may be
129. Notice to adverse party. amerceda 503130. Injunction bond in personal action: 143. Court may order money to be paid
release of errors. into 6011”13l. How proceedings after judgment 144. Same subject.
stayed. 145. Person violating injunction to stay
132. Injunction bond in actions for the waste, aw. may be attached in
recovery of real estate. term or vacation.
133. Bond in other cases. 146. Person arrested in term tobebrought
134. Ten per cent. damages, when 111- before the court.
lowed. 147. If in vacation, shall be brought bel35. Damages on dissolution of injunc- fore ajudge.
tion in action for real estate, &.c. 148. Shall enter into recognizance, 860-:
136. Bond, where filed and kept. or in default thereof, shall be
137. Terms of injunction. committed.
138. How copy of order of injunction 149. Motions to dissolve injunctions.
served. 150. Jurisdiction of probate judges 8.810
139. Effect of order as to officers, &.c. injunctions.

140. Writ of injunction not necessary.

The circuit court in term, or the president judge
ciate judges together, in vacation, shall

hority to grant injunctions,

SECT. 127.
alone, or the two asso

have full power and ant

1. To stay waste;
2. To stay all proceedings on judgments at law;
3. To stay and suspend proceedings on suits that are pending

before such circuit court, or other court of inferior jurisdiction;
4. To exercise all powers usual and necessary for courts of

chancery, in granting and enforcing restraining orders and injunctions; and,
5. To issue and cause to be exe
to carry into effect the provisions of this section, by attachment

or otherwise, according to the exigency of the case, and in conformity with the law and usages governing courts of chancery.
Snow. 128. The power and authority conferred by the last
v be exercised by the president judge, to
' ' by the two associate

.to operate within their proper county. ,
' ' be granted, except in cases

arty has had ten days previous
plication therefore,

cuted, all process necessary

of emergency, until the adverse p
notice of the time and place of making the ap
unless such application be made in open court, in relation
to or affecting any suit pending therein, at the term at which
such application may be made, in which case no special notice
shall be necessary to any of the parties in such suit.

Sncr. 130. No injunction shall be granted to stay proceedings after judgment in any personal action, unless the complainant shall Iile bond in the proper clerk’s office, with surety to be

approved by the court, judge, or judges, granting the injunction,

in a penalty sutiicient to secure the payment of such judgments
interest, and costs, and also the’ damages and costs which may
be awarded by the court, if the injunction be dissolved; and
such complainant shall also endorse and sign on his bill a release

of errors in said judgment, whenever required so to do by the
the court.

ad jud§e or jgdgeslgrantiipig suchf injunction, or By“ b t d Om
- ECT. . 0' At ' t esare ,
:33‘ as to so much of rsoucdlf jldldagirrlleriatr agnilgcrangtalrti zsking this injunction shall show by his bill that he is not equitably bound to paySncr. 13?. N o injunction shall issue to stay pro l

 law after verdict or judgment, in any action for the recovery of
lands, or the possession thereof, unless the party applying tfilefe’
' the p ainite,
for shall execute a bond, with one or more sureties, to
the court, judges 0’

tiff in such action at law, in such sum as
judges, allowing such injunction shall require, conditioned 1'01”
the payment of all such damages and costs as may.aec111e
by reason of such injunction, in case of a decision against the
party obtaining such injunction.

ther SECT. 133. In all other cases not specified in the p
sections, the party obtaining an injunction shall give bond to the
adverse party affected thereby, with sureties, all _
penalty as may be required and approved by the court: ]“d‘e'°’

or judges, allowing the injunction, with condition for the payment of all damages and costs which may accrue by reason of
such. injunction. *‘

Sacr. 134. When an injunction to stay proceedings after a
judgment at law in a personal action shall be dissolved, the
court shall award ten per centum damages against the party in
whose favor such injunction was issued.

Seer. 13.5. If an injunction to stay proceedings after verdict
or judgment in an action at law, for the recovery of real_estate,
or the possession thereof, be dissolved, the damages assessed
against the party in whose favor such injunction was allowed,
shall include the reasonable rents and profits of the lands recovered, and all waste committed thereon after the granting of the
injunction; to be ascertained in such manner as the court shall
direct.

Seer. 136. Whenever any bond, required before the issuing
of an injunction, shall be filed with the proper clerk, the same
shall be kept by him for the benefit of the person entitled
thereto; and such bond shall be delivered to such person on demand.

Seer. 137. Any court granting or continuing an injunction,
may impose such terms and conditions on the party obtaining
such injunction as shall be deemed equitable. .

Szcr. 138. Whenever an injunction is allowed before the
service of subpoena, a copy of theorder of -injunction shall
be issued with the subpoena, duly certilied by the clerk, and delivered to the adverse party; if the injunction be granted after
the service of the subpoena, such copy shall be served by delivering the same to such adverse party.

Seer. 139. When an injunction is allowed after judgment,
all officers of the court, and the party against whom the injunction is granted, his agent and attorney, shall proceed no further
in any proceedings on the judgment so enjoined, and any process which may have been issued on such judgment shall be
stayed.

Seer. 140. It shall not be necessary in any case to issue a
writ of injunction.

Seer. 141. When any sheriff or other officer has received
the whole or any part of the money from the execution defendant, for the collection of which any execution shall have issued,
and the execution defendant, his executors or administrators,
shall have obtained an injunction to stay proceedings under
such execution, such sheriff or other officer, unless otherwise
ordered by the court, judge, or judges, granting the injunction,
shall repay to the person against whom such execution was
issued, his executors or administrators, the money so received,
or such part thereof as may be enjoined, retaining sutiieient to
pay the costs which may be justly due; but the provisions of

this section shall apply only in cases where such sheriff or othcer shall not have paid over the money to the execution plaintifff, his agent or attorney, before enjoined. "

Sscr. 142. If such sheriff or other officer shall fail or refuse
on demand made by the complainant, his executors, or administrators, to pay over, as specified in the last preceding section,
the money thus enjoined, such sheriff or other officer shall be
amerced in open court, for the use of the complainant, his executors or administrators, in the same manner in which the sheriff
may be amerced for failing to pay over money made on executioml

S1-:c'r. 143. Nothing contained in the two preceding sections
shall prevent the court, judge, or judges, allowing the injunction,
from ordering the money made on such execution to be paid
into court, or retained in the hands of the officer for such
length of time as such court, judge, or judges, shall direct, or
until the injunction shall be dissolved or made perpetual.

Seer. 144. When the money is thus ordered to be paid into
court, or to be retained in the hands of the officer, the court in
term, for sufficient cause, may order the money to be paid to
the complainant before the injunction is dissolved or made perpetual. .
Smcr. 145. If the person against whom an injunction to

1 stay waste is allowed, shall, after the service of the notice

- thereof, do, commit, consent to, direct, or suffer any waste or

~ destruction to bedone upon the premises, contrary to the injunction, the court in term, or the president judge, or associate
judges, in vacation, as the case may require, on motion and allidavit, setting forth such waste or destruction, may award an
attachment for contempt, to be issued against the person charged
with disobedience to and a breach of such’ injunction.

ad Sncr. 146. Such person, on being arrested on such attach'8 merit, if during the term, shall be brought forthwith before the
court to answer such contempt, and shall be subject to such
order as thecourt shall make touching the same.

1. SECT. 147. Such attachment, Whether issued in term or vacation, if not executed so as to be returned in term time, shall
be, forthwith after service thereof, returned before the president
judge of the circuit, or before any associate judge of the
county.

tto Smcr. 148. Upon such return it shall be the duty of such

~_ judge to require such person thus attached to enter into a recognizance, to the state of Indiana, with sufficient sureties, and

1- in such penalty as such judge shall require, to be and appeal‘

, before the judges of the circuit court of such county, at the
next term thereafter, to answer such contempt; and 81802 that
he execute a bond to the complainant, with sullicientsure§Ya
and in such penalty as such judge shall require, to comply Will‘

and abide such injunction; and in default of such recognizance

and bond, he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until
‘he give such recognizance and bond, or be otherwise legally
discharged.

SE01‘. 149. Motions to dissolve injunctions on the bill for
want of equity, may be made in court without notice, but motions to dissolve on bill and answer, or on bill, answer and exhibits, before the time for the final hearing of the cause, shall

not be entertained, unless the other party have had ten days’
notice of such motion.

Sncr. 150. The judges of the probate courts, within their
respective counties, sha have all the powers hereby conferred

on circuit courts, both in term and vacation, to grant injunc1210118 and restraining orders, as to all matters and causes properly cognizable in the probate court,‘and to enforce obedience
to any such injunction or restraining order. ‘

 

ARTICLE VIII.

Of the execution of conveyances by commissioners in the case of
deceased vendors of real estate.

Sscrron Samoa

151. Cases in which such commissioners 158. Proceedings in case the purchase
may be appointed. money has not been paid.

152. Summons; publication. 159. Noticel53. Term at which commissioners shall 160. Conveyance.
be appointed. 161. Tender of conveyance, &c.

154. Conveyance reported to the court; 162. Action for the purchase money.
confirmed unless objections be 163. Trustee, &c. may haveaconveyance

made. executed to enable him to sue for
155. Objections shall be specific. , the purchase money.

156. If an objection probably valid be 164. Suit after tender of the“ deed.
stated, petitioner must proceed by 165. Effect of deed.
bill.

157. If conveyance confirmed, its effect,
&c.

Sncr. 151. Whenever any person who has executed a title
bond or contract for the conveyance of real estate to any person or corporation, shall die before such conveyance is executed,
and shall have made no legal provision, by will or otherwise, for
the execution of such conveyance, the obligee or vendee, or his
assignee, may file his petition in the circuit or probate court of
the county where the real estate lies, or where the majority of
the defendants to such petition reside, prayin the appointment
of a commissioner to convey the real estate or which he is entitled to a conveyance, in conformity with the condition of such
obligation or agreement. _

Sncr. 152. Such etition may be filed in term or vacation,
and the defendants tiiereto, if residents of the state, shall be

summoned personally to appear and show cause, if any they

L court shall dismiss such p
must proceed by bill in chancery as if

have, why the prayer of such petition should not be granted;
or if they are non-residents, notice thereof shall be published
as in case of non-resident defendants to a bill in chancery.
SE01‘. 153. When it shall appear to the court that such summons has been served fifteen days, or publication made thirty
days before the first day of the term, and no sufficient cause

shall be shown against the prayer of such petition, the court

shall appoint a commissioner, or direct a master in chancery,

to execute a conveyance in conformity with the obligations of

the bond or agreement.
Sacr. 154. Such conveyance shall be reported to the court

at the same term, or at the next succeeding term, accompanied
with the original title bond or agreement, and the whole shall
be spread at full length upon the records _of the court, unless
objections be made by the legal representatives of the deceased

or other person interested in the estateintended to be conveyed. , _ _ _
Siacr. 155. Such objections shall be made in writing, and

shall specify the interest which the objector has in ‘the premises
intended to be conveyed, and the particular objection or objections a ainst the confirmation of such conveyance,
verilie by the affidavit of such objector, that

such objections to be true. _
Szcr. 156. If any objection probably valid be stated, the

11- been filed to obtain a conveyance.

B
5 quire the dismissal of such petition,

I
an

SECT. 157. If no objection, or no objection suliicient to 1'0conveyance,
shall be of the same
the premises in the petitioner, as if the conveyance had

executed by the deceased party in his lifetime. _
Sacr. 158. When any person shall die Without having exqcuted a conveyance, as in the first section of this article spec}iied, and the whole or any part of the purchase money be unpal

at his death, the executor or administrator of such deceased
person may file a petition in the circuit or probatecourt against
the obligee, vendee, or assignee, or all of them, as may be accessary, and also the lieirs,at law of the deceased, praying m
such petition for the appointment of a commissioner to execu
a conveyance to the proper
Seer. 159. Notice of the
given in like manner as above required in

filed by the obligee or vendee. _ .

Srzcr. 160. The court in such case may appointa comml9'
sioner or direct a master in chancery to execute a conveyance
in conformity with the requisitions of the title bond 01‘ agre°'
ment, and report the conveyance as soon as executed,
court; and if the court shall approve the deed, the same Sh

he verily believes ‘

be entered of record and delivered to the executor or adminis- \

trator.

S1-:c'r. 161. The executor or administrator may tender such *
deed to the person to whom such tender should be made, and 1

demand payment of the purchase money due and unpaid.

Sncr. 162. If upon due tender of the deed, the person liable
to an action for the recovery of the purchase money, refuse to
pay the same, such executor oradministrator may maintain an
action for the recovery of the purchase money, due and unpaid,
against the person thus liable. .

Sscr. 163. Whenever real estate is sold on a credit by the
order or decree of any court having jurisdiction, and the tender
of a deed is necessary by the terms or contract of sale, before
such purchase money can be recovered, the court, on the application of the trustee or other person on whose application such
sale was directed, may order a deed to be executed by a commissioner or master in chancery, conveying the premises sold

. to such purchaser.

Sncr. 164. If, on the tender of such deed, the purchaser refuse to ay the purchase money, ‘an action may be maintained
against iiim for the recovery thereof. ' _

Sncr. 165. Any deed executed according to the provisions
of this article, for the purpose of authorizing a suit to be maintained for the recovery of the purchase money, or any part
thereof, shall be valid and effectual from the delivery thereof,

to pass all the estate and interest necessary and intended to pass
thereby.

ARTICLE IX.

Of‘ the care and custody of idiots, lunatics, and insane persons.

SECTION Sscrron
166. The courts which shall have care, 178. Actions by and against ward, how
&,c. of idiots, lungticg, &,c. prosecuted and defended.

167. Court may award writ to the sheriff. 179. Contract of lunatic, &.c. void.

168. Jury. ' ‘ 180. Court may decree that guardian
169. Their oath. shall convey, &.c.

170. Proceedings before the jury. 181. Idiot, lunatic, or insane pauper.
171. Inquisition. 182. If insaneperson restored to hisright
172. The inquisition of the jury may be mind, &c., shall receive his protraversed. o perty, &.c.

173. Guardian. 183. Person declared insane may file his
174. Duties of guardian. petition, stating his restoration to
175. Same subject. his right mind.

176 Effect of such inquisition on pend- 184. Jury: inquisition.
ing suits; may proceed against 185. I.nqui.sition may be traversed.

guardians. 186. Issue, how tried.
' 177. Guardian may prosecute suits pend- 187. Effect of verdict in favor of the peing in favor of the ward, as guar- titioner.

dian or as next friend. _ 188. Of verdict against him.

Swriox SECIION,
189. If adjudged to be restored to his 192. Complaint before a justice that an

right mind, how pending suits, insane person is dangerous: jury.
&.c. affected. 193. Verdict and proceedings thereon.

190. In case of death of any such ward, 194. Justice shall certify his proceedings
powers of guardian to cease, &c. to circuit court.

19]. Contracts of guardian, &c. in such
case, how enforced, &,c.

Srzcr. 166. The circuit and probate courts respectively, on

the chancery side thereof, shall have the careeand custody of

all idiots, lunatics, and insane persons, and of their estates real
and personal, so that the same shall not be wasted or destroyed;
and shall provide for their safe keeping and maintenance, and
for the maintenance of their families and the education of their
children out of their estates and the rents and profits thereof.
Sscr. 167. Whenever satisfactory information shall be given
to such court, thatjany person in the county for which such court

is held, is then an idiot, a lunatic, or insane, such court shall
award a writ to the sheriff of the county, requiring him to summon a jury of twelve discreet and disinterested householders of

the county, to inquire concerning the truth thereof.
Siicr. 168. The sheriff, on ‘the reception of such ,writ, shall
select such jury, and appoint a time and place for them to assemble.
SECT. 169. The sheriff shall administer an oath to such jury,

that they will well, truly, and impartially inquire into the fact of

such idiocy, lunacy, or insanity, as the case may be.
SECT. 170. Such idiot, lunatic, or insane person shall be prov. duced to and inspected by the jury, and the jury shall also hear
the testimony of such witnesses as may be brought before them,
and»may cause persons to be produced and examined in their
presence touching such alleged idiocy, lunacy, or insanity.*
Srzcr. 171. ,If the jury shall decide from such inspection and
testimony that such person is lunatic, insane, or an idiot, they
shall make up and sign their finding thereof in writin , and deliver the same to the sheriff, who shall forthwith therea ter return
such inquisition and file the same in the proper clerk’s office.
In ‘SE01’. 172. The party proceeded against, or any person adty mitted by the court ‘to defend for him, may traverse the inqui
tion on its return, and if so traversed, an issue shall be directed
by the court, which shall be tried before such court by 8 j}1YYSncr. 173. If the inquisition, as returned by the sherifl, shall
not be traversed as aforesaid, or if the verdict of the jury: 3}
provided in the last preceding section, shall sustain such 1I_1‘1‘“‘
sition, the court shall proceed to appoint a guardian or guardians
not exceeding three in number, to take the custody and care 01

the person and estate of such idiot, lunatic, or insane person.

Smcr. 174. It shall lie the duty of such guardian or guardians to take. such care of the estate of their ward as may be
necessary for the preservation and best management of the estate
of such ward, and for his support and for the support and education of his family, if he have any.

Seer. 175. In the care, custody, and management of their
wards, and the estates of such wards, every such guardian shall
be governed by the provisions of law contained in the second
part of these Revised Statutes respecting guardians and wards."

SECT. 176. As soon as it is determined by the inquisition
returned by the sheriff, that such person is insane, a lunatic,
or an idiot, all suits, judgments, proceedings, and executions
then pending against him, shall be suspended until the appointment of a guardian or guardians, and then the same shall be proceeded in and conducted in like manner against such guardian or
guardians, as in cases of judgments against a deceased person,
and of suits and proceedings which survive against executors
and administrators, during the continuance of such guardianship.

Sac-r. 177. If any Sult be pending in favor of such ward at
the time such inquisition is returned, the same shall be prosecuted
by the guardian as such, if the right of action would survive to
his personal representatives; and by such guardian as the next
friend of such Ward, if the right of action would survive to his
heirs. V
Sscr. 178. All actions which might be brought by or against
any such ward, may be instituted by or against his guardian or
guardians, except where the right of action would survive against
his heirs at law, in which case the action shall be against such
ward, and such guardian or guardians may defend as guardian
ad litem.

Sncr. 179. Every contract, bargain, sale, conveyance, or act
‘of any person, while insane, an idiot, or a lunatic, shall be void
and of no effect in law.1

Sncr. 180. ‘The circuit courts of this state sitting in chancery
shall have authority to decree and compel the specific performance of any bargain, contract, or agreement which may have
been made by any lunatic or other person specified in the first
section of this article, while such lunatic or other person was
capable to contract; and to direct the guardian or guardians to
do and execute all necessary conveyances and acts for that purpose. ,

Sncr. 181. Every idiot, lunatic, and insane person who is or
shall become a pauper, shall be entitled to all the benefit of the
laws of this state for the relief of the poor; and the overseers
of the poor of the proper township, and all other persons concerned,’shall govern themselves as to such paupers by the provisions of such laws. r ‘

Sncr. 182. In case any such lunatic, idiot, or insane person
shall be restored to his right mind, and become capable of conducting his affairs, his real and personal estate shall be restored

to him. _ .
Sncr. 183. Any person who shall have been heretofore, or

who may hereafter be declared insane, a lunatic, oi: an idiot,
may file his petition in the circuit or probate court where such
\ inquisition was had, setting forth that such person is restored to
his right mind.

-Sncr. 184. Upon the filing of such petition the court shall
direct the sheriff to summon a jury of twelve discreet and disinterested householders of the county, to inquire into the fact
of such restoration; and such sheriff‘ and jury, as to such inquisition, the production and examination of the party and witnesses, the making up and signing the finding of the jury, and
returning the same, shall be governed in all respects by the provisions of this article respecting the first inquisition.

SE01‘. 185. When such inquisition is returned, if the jury
find that such person-is restored to his right mind, any responsible person who will become bound for the costs may traverse
such finding; or if such jury find that such person’ is not restored to his right mind, such person may in like manner traverse such finding.
Sncr. 186. When an issue is made up, the court shall direct
the same to be tried before them by a jury. ' J
; Sncr. 187. If on such inquisition or on the trial of such lSS1l?s
r°f when any such issue is made, such person be found to be in his
' right mind, he shall be restored to all his rights, powers, and duties which may have been vested in or devolved upon such guardian or guardians, and their authority shall cease and determinenst Sncr. 188. But if the finding on such inquisition or the determination of any such issue be, that such person is not restore
to his right mind, then the proceedings thereon shall be dismissed.
to SECT. 189. When any such person is adjudged ,_to be If?Egd stored to his right mind, all judgments, executions, and suits
.3 ' thenpending by or against the guardians of such person ma)’
survive and continue, and be prosecuted to final judgment 311
execution by or against such petitioner, in the same manner as
if such suit or other proceeding had been or’ inally commenced
by or against him in his proper person; an such guardian 01'
guardians shall be liable to account to such petitioner _m ll}°
same manner as is provided for the accounting of guardians In
other cases. i _
the SECT. 190. In case of the death of any such idiots lunanc’
1?’ or insane person, the powers of his guardian or guardians Shall
suar- cease, and his executors or administrators shall proceed in the
“°' settlement and adjustment of his estate, as in other casesof Sncr. 191. All valid contracts respecting the estate 0f 5“‘’h
&c.. ‘person made by any such guardian or guardians, Shall: “P0
:33, decease, be performed and enforced by his legal or personal d
presentatives in like manner as contracts made by 8 decease

person before his decease.

SEcT. 192. When complaint shall be made before any justice

of the peace, on oath, that any person is insane and dangerous A

to the community, by being suffered to remain or run at large,
such justice shall issue a writ to a constable, commanding him
to summon twelve reputable householders or freeholders of the
township, to inquire upon oath touching such complaint.

Sncr. 193. If such jury find that such person is insane, it
shall be the duty of such justice of the peace to appoint some
suitable person to take charge of such insane person, who for
his services shall be allowed a reasonable compensation by the
county commissioners of the county, to be paid out of the county

treasury.‘ _
SECT. 194. The justice, immediately after such appointment,

shall certify a full transcript of his proceedings to the circuit
court, and such court shall proceed thereon as in cases of a petition as above in this article provided; and if such insane person have any property, such court may order the same, or so
much as may, be necessary, to be applied _to the payment of the
county for its expenditures as above provided. ‘

- 

. CHAPTER 47.

OF COURTS OF IUSTICES OF THE PEACE; AND OF THE DUTIES OF
CONSTABLES.

ARTICLE 1. Of the jurisdiction of justices of the peace in civil cases.

ARTICLE 2. Of the commencement of suits, the service and return of process, and

change of venue.

ARTICLE 3. Of the appearance of the parties.

ARTICLE 4. Of the pleadings.

A1tTIcLE 5. Of continuances.

ARTICLE 6. Of witnesses and depositions.

ARTICLE 7. Of the trial of issues of fact and the incidents thereto.

ARTICLE 8. Of judgments; and of transcripts thereof to bind real estate.

AaTicLE 9. Of appeals.

A1ITIcLE 10. Of removal of causes to the circuit court by writ of certiorari.

ARTICLE 11. Of the action of replevin.

ARTICLE 12. Of executions, and sales thereon: of delivery bonds: of process
against the body of the execution debtor: suits against constable for
failure to pay or return execution.

ARTICLE 13. Of constables and their duties.

ARTICLE 14. Miscellaneous provisions.

ARTICLE 15. Of forms for justices of the peace.

ARTICLE“ 16

Of the jurz'sdz'ction of justices of the peace in civil cases.

SE°T1°N SECTION 2—C'ontinued. ’
1. Limited generally to their townships. plevin, and actions of tort, to $50.
2. In what actions and to what amount. 3. Domestic attachment, to $1001. Debt, covenant, and assumpsit, 4. Byand against ccrpox-ations.8Xe'

to $100. 2. Trespass, trover, re- cutors, &c.

Sacrrox Sscrron ‘
3. No jurisdiction where, 1. Title to‘ 6. Actions on written demands reduced

land comes in question. 2.*In slan- W to 3100 may be before justice.
der. 3. Marriage contract. 4. Where 7. On penal bonds where less than $100
related to either of the parties. is demanded.

4. Process limited to thetownship, ex-. 8. Same on official bonds.
cept, 1. Where a capias should is- 9. Certified copy of oiiicial bond to be

sue. 2. When no justice in the evidence.

proper township. 3. Where no dis- 10. Plaintiffs to pay costs in circuit court
interested justice in the proper in suits exclusively cognizable betownship. 4. When some of the fore justiw.

defendants reside out of the town- 11. Justice may administer oaths, issue
ship. 5. In trespass to real or per- subpoanas, and take acknowledgsonal property, and defendant re- ment of deeds, &c.

sides out of the township. 12. Powers in the preceding section may

5. Concurrent jurisdiction with the cir- be exercised over the county.

cuit court and probate court, in 13. To keep docket and furnish trandebt and assumpsit, between $50 script.

and $100, and exclusive where a
written instrument is reduced to

$50.

Sncrron 1. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in civil
cases shall, unless otherwise directed by law, be limited to the
townships wherein they may have been elected; and every justice of the peace is hereby authorized to hold a court for the
trial of all actions enumerated in the next section, and to heal‘,
try, and determine the same according to law and right. J

Snow. 2. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
over and cognizance of the following actions and proceedings,
subject to the provisions of the next following section.

1. Actions of debt, covenant, and assumpsit, wherein the
debt or damages claimed or confessed shall not exceed the Sum
of one hundred dollars. " ~

2. All actions founded in tort, wherein the damages demanded, or the value of the property claimed, does not exceed the
sum of lifty dollars.

3. Actions commenced by domestic or foreign attachment
as provided by law, whenever the debt or'damages claimed
shall not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars;"‘

4. Actions by and against the State Bank of Indiana, and
all other corporate bodies; and by and against executors, administrators, and guardians, subject to the provisions and restrictions of this section.’r '

Saar. 3. But no justice of the peace shall have cognizance
of any action,

1. Wherein the title to lands or tenements shall come in
question; nori

-2. In actions of slander; nor

3. In any action for the recovery of damages for the breach
of any marriage contract; nor

4. In any action by or against any person or persons with
whom he may be related in any of the degrees of aflinity or
consanguinity.

Snow. 4. N 0 person shall be held to answer to any process
issued against him by a justice of the peace in a civil matter, in
any township of such county other than the one where he shall
actually reside, except in the cases fo1lowing§

1. Where, according to law, a capias ad respondendum shall
be the proper process to be issued, in which case the jurisdiction of the justice shall be coextensive with his county;

i 2. Where there shall be no justice_of the peace for the.
township in which the defendant may reside; or no justice competent to act in such case;

3. Where any relationship, either by afhnity or consanguinity, exists between the justice and either of the parties, and
there is no justice in the township competent to try the cause;

4. When two or more persons shall be jointly or jointly and
severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly
liable in the same action, and reside in different townships of
the same county, the plaintifff may commence his action before
a justice of the peace of the township in which any of the
debtors or other persons liable may reside; and the justice before whom such action may be brought shall issue process
against such debtors or other persons, directed to any constable
of his township; which process such constable shall be authorized to serve and return, wherever the defendants may be found
in the county; and the defendants shall be compelled to answer
thereto; and all such other proceedings "shall be had therein as

if all the defendants resided in the township in which such action was commenced; ship in the same county, the justice
may be brought, shall have power. to isue such process directed

to any constable of his township, who shall serve the same on
the defendant or defendants where he or they can be found
within -the county, and make his return thereof to the justice who

' d such process; and the defendant or defendants shall be held

rocess in the same manner as if he or

they resided in the township in which such action was instituted.

Snow. 5. In all actions of debt, covenant, or assumpsi
wherein the sum due or demanded shall exceed fifty dollars and

not exceed one hundred dollars, exclusive of interest and costs,
justices of the peace and circuit courts shall have concurrent
jurisdiction; and in like circumstances in actions by and against
executors, administrators, and guardians they shall have concurrent jurisdiction with probate courts; ‘
I nal amount specified in any note, bill,
writing, given for the paym , _
article, shall have. been reduced, by credits endorsed thereon, to

thereon shall be commenced before -a justice of the peace.

is SE01‘. 6. In all actions where the plaintiff’s demand on_an

account, or on a note, bill, bond, or other instrument in
given for the payment of money or other valuable article, for
any amount over one hundred dollars, has been reduced by payments or credits endorsed thereon, to a sum not exceeding one
hundred dollars exclusive of interest, the same may be prose‘
cuted before a justice of the peace who is authorized to render

judgment and execution thereon.
'th a penalty exnd. Sncr. 7. Where there shallbe a bond W1

ceeding one hundred dollars, with a condition for the payment

of money not exceeding one hundred dollars, or in specific aror where the

ticles not exceeding one hundred dollars invalue,
sum actually demanded does not exceed one hundred dollars, 01'
where there shall be a bond orpromissory note for the pa)’ment of several sums of money or spec '
ments, any of which instalments does not
dollars, an action may be maintained on the conditions
bond, or on the instalments of such note sep befmfe “
justice of the peace; and atrecovery on one 0
or instalments shall not be a bar to a subsequen
on the other conditions or instalments, or any of emSncr. 8. All bonds with penalty, conditioned for the Per’

formance of the duties of any public officer, may be
before a justice of the peace, where the damageS_89“gl“ t° be

recovered for the breach or breaches of any condl
bond do not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars.

)0.

Snow. 9. A certified copy of such ofiicial bond, made by the 4
officer with whom it has been deposited and filed according to I
law, attested by the seal of his oliice, if he have one, or if not, i
by his ink seal or scrawl, shall be considered and received as
competent proof of such bond and the execution thereof.

Snow. 10. Should any plaintifff bring his action in a circuit ‘
court to recover a debt or demand cognizable before a justice of 1
the peace, except where the courts have concurrent jurisdiction, .
such plaintifff shall be adjudged to pay all costs incurred therein,
except in cases wherein the title to land shall come in question.

SE01‘. ll. Justices of the peace shall have power, and they r
are hereby authorized to administer any oath required by law to
be taken or administered, to grant and issue subpoenas for witnesses, and coerce their attendance, in a cause or matter pending before them, or other cause or matter where they may be
required to take testimony; and to take the acknowledgment
and proof of the execution of deeds, mortgages and other instruments in writing.

Snow. 12. Their jurisdiction in the exercise of the powers
designated in the last preceding section shall be co-extensive
with the county in which they have been elected.

Seer. 13. Every justice of the peace shall kee a docket,
in which he‘ shall make a fair and accurate entry 0 all actions

and suits instituted before him, with his proceedings thereon ;
and either party shall be furnished with a transcript thereof,
when demanded, on paying the lawful fee therefore.

ARTICLE II.

Of the commencement of suits, the service and return of process, and change of venueSscrrox
25. Proceedings the same as if commenced before him: dismissal if not

Snerxox

14. Suits may be commenced by agreement or process.

15. Are considered commenced on delivery of process to constable: day of
delivery to be noted thereon.

16. Without process, when docketed.

17. When a summons the first process;
sum demanded to be endorsed.

18. Same to specify a time and place to
appear, not less than three nor
more than thirty days.

19. Time and manner of service.

20. How, if defendant is absent for an uncertain period.

21. Same in sci. fa.

22. Oath required on issue of a capias.
23. Service and return of capias, and notice to plaintifff. C
24. Trial to be had in twenty-four hours:
when before another justice.

proceeded with.
26. Habeas corpus allowed defendant.

27. Change of venue, for what cause, and

when allowed. 1. Justice being a
witness. 2. Interested or prejudiced. 3. Citizens of township prejudiced, &.c., party an undue advantage, &.c.

28. Change, when to a justice of the same
or an adjoining township.

29. Justice to transmit papers, doc. and
proceedings thereon.

30. Costs to be first paid or replevied by
applicant.

31. What costs are to becharged when
change is taken by plain-tiff.

32. What, when taken by defendant.

Snow. 14. Suits may be institute
eace, either by the voluntary appe

parties, or by process."
A suit shall be considered to have been comto a constable to be

menced on the delivery of the process
en he received the same.

Sncr. 16. When a suit is instituted without process, it shall
' f docketbe considered to have

* ing the cause.
' SECT- 17. Except in cases" specially _p'r

summons shall be the first proce

" have accrued.‘( - _ _ _
SECT. 18. Such summons shall specify a certain time, not
' om the date thereof,

t which the defendant shall appear.
s shall be served at least three days

s'ive of the day of service, and including the day of such trial, by reading the same to the defendant, or by serving him with a copy, if demanded, or by leaving a
copy at his usual place of residence, if he be absent.

t shall have left his usual

5. SECT. 20. If an absent defendan
hich will render the time of

is place of residence, for any time w
d thereof, shall

is return uncertain, the constable being apprise _
the summons, noting the fact

not leave a copy, but shall return
' nd pluries summons may

in his return; and in such case,
til service thereof.

be pursue

Snow. 19. Such summon
" before the day of trial, exclu

issue from time to time, un ,
d in cases of scire

SE01‘. 21. The same course may

I facias.
SECT. 22. Whenever a person shall m

f h b ' fiid ' h
t e peace, y his a avit, or t t and ‘egal claim,

other person on his behalf, that he has a jus
debt, or other demand, then due and owing, against any peFS0n
the county of such justice_0fb:)1:1<:

residing or then being in

peace, and stating that he believes that the defendant IS a_
to leave the state of Indiana, ° ' °
by the laws of this state to execution,
with which he might pay such debt, or some p
intent to delay or defraud his creditors, it shall be the duty'_0f
such justice, upon the filing of such aiiidavit, to issue a C3P"‘S

ad respondendum against the person so charged.

fa
ake satisfactory proof

e affidavit of any

to

sue to a justice 0

SECT. 23. Such capias ad respondendum shall be made returnable forthwith after the service thereof, and the constable
serving the same shall, according to the command thereof, forthwith arrest the defendant, and convey him before the justice
who issued it, and notify the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of
such service. '

SECT. 24. When a defendant shall have been arrested on such
capias, he shall be entitled to a speedy trial, and shall in no case
be detained in custody longer than twenty-four hours from the
time he mayhave been brought before the justice, unless within
that time the trial of the cause shall have commenced; and
whenever the justice who issued the capias shall be absent, or
unable to hear and try the cause, the constable shall take the defendant before the next justice in the same township; or if
there be none legally competent to try the cause in that township, then to the nearest justice.in an adjoining township.

SECT. 25. In such case, the plaintifff shall file his cause of
action with such justice, and the suit shall proceed in all respects as if the same had been commenced before such justice;
or if such plaintifff fail to file any cause of action before such
justice within twelve hours after he shall have received notice
of such arrest, the defendant shall be discharged. .

SECT. 26. Any person arrested by virtue of a capias ad respondendum, issued by a justice of the peace, shall have all the
rights and privileges of, and may be discharged in like manner
by, a writ of habeas corpus,‘ as is" provided in cases of arrest on
process issued out of a court of record. *‘

SECT. 27. If, on the return of any process, or at any time
before any trial shall have commenced, it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the justice of the peace before whom_any
cause is instituted or is pending for trial, by the aiiidavit of
either of the parties in the cause,

1. That such justice is a material witness in the cause for
either party; or, ‘ _ .

2. That he verily believes he cannot have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, for the cause of any interest, bias,
or prejudice of such justice; or,

3. If a jury he demanded by the adverse party, then that he
cannot, as he verily believes, have a fair and impartial trial _in
such township, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof against him, or because such adverse party has an
undue advantage over him in such township ; l

. Such action shall be removed for trial before some other justice of the peace. r

Seer. 28. If such change of venue be granted for any objection to such justice, on account of his being a material ~
witness in the cause, or on account of the interest, bias, or pre- ‘

judice of such justice, such cause shall be transferred for_trial
before some other justice of the peace of the same township, if

there be one therein legally competent to try such cause; if

there be no such justice within such township, or if such change
of venue be granted on account of the bias or prejudice of the

citizens of such township against such party, or because the
adverse party has an undue advantage over him therein, then

such change of venue shall be taken to some convenient justice
° ' ' ' grtownship of the same county.

SECT. 29. he justice granting such change shall deliver or
transmit the papers in the cause, together with a certified transcript of the proceedings before him, to the justice to whom
such change may be granted, who shall proceed therein, and
have the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties, in all respects
Kvhatever, as if such suit had been originally instituted before

im.
: Sis:c'r. 30. But before any such change of venue shall be al' lowed, the costs, as specified in the two next -following sections,

shall be paid by’ the party applying for such change, or he sh
have confessed judgment therefore before the justice granting

the change and replevied the same. _ _
Sscr. 31. When a change of venue is taken by the plaintifff,

he shall be" taxed with all the costs which have accrued, and
" which shall accrue in the cause, until such transcript and papers shall be delivered to the justice to whom such change is

taken.
Snow. 32. When a change of venue shall be granted on the

application of the defendant, he shall be taxed with the 608118

which have accrued for issuing subpoenas for witnesses and service thereof, witness’ fees, and the costs of the justice for transferring the cause to the docket of the other justice.

ARTICLE III.
Of the appearance of the parties.

SW10“ SECTION
33. When appearance shall be in person 36. Guardian ad litem. how BPP°ln‘°‘l
or by attorney. for infant defendant.
34. Next friend must be appointed for 37. Infant defendant failing ‘° 3995'’
infant plaintifff. justice to appoint: guardian 110‘ 1'9‘
35. Justice to appoint: — shall be sponsible for costs.
responsible for the costs. 38. Justice and constable forbid to act 85

attorney, etc.

» Smcr. 33. Parties in a suit before a justice of the peace,
pear and

:01: except persons under twenty-one years of age, may ap h 8
conduct their suit, either in person or by attorney; but W 91'
a suit shall have been commenced by a capias ad respondendllm

no further proceedings before the justice shall be had against
the defendant until he shall have appeared in person.“

SE01‘. 34. No process shall be issued for an infant plaintifff,
nor shall any issue 'oined by such plaintifff without process, be
heard until a next riend for such plaintiii shall have been appointed.

Seer. 35. Whenever requested, the justice shall appoint
some suitable erson, who will consent thereto in writing, to be
named by suc plaintifff, to act as his next friend in such suit,
who shall be responsible for the costs therein.

Seer. 36. After service and return of process against an
infant defendant, the suit shall not be any further prosecuted
until a guardian for him be appointed; and upon the request of
such defendant, the justice shall appoint some discreet person
guardian ad litem, who will consent thereto in writing.

Sscr. 37. If the defendant shall not appear on the return
day, or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian, the justice may, on motion of the plaintifff, appoint any discreet person
such guardian; and the guardian for a defendant shall, in no
case, be liable for costs.

Snow. 38. No constable or justice of the peace shall be allowed to appear and act as attorney, advocate, or agent of
either party on the trial of a cause, unless he be an attorney

at law.

 

A B T I C L 1-} IV.
Of the pleadings.

Semen SECTION

39. Cause of action or statement, etc.,
when to be filed in cases commenced by summons.

40. Statement of defense, set-off, etc.,
when to be filed.

41. Specific breach need notbe assigned

on official bonds.
42. Amendments before trial—evidence

confined to the statements and‘

pleadings filed.
43. General issue always in—Oath thereto required when it denies a written instrument.
44. Want of form shall not vitiate—nor

misnomer of action

45. Plaintiff in assurnpsit must include all
his demands.

46. When pendency of suit by summons
not to bar one by capias.

47. What pleas in abatement must be on

» oath.

4 48. What pleas of non est facrum and

non assignment to be on oath.
49. Form of oath to a plea of non assignmeat.
50. Set-off. when allowed against executors and administrators.
51. Judgment may he pleaded as set-05'.
52. Transcript thereof, evidence.

Sscrron Sncrron
53. Set-off or payment may be by spe- 55. Title set up, cause to be certified to

cial plea or notice. circuit court.
54. Plea of title to land, when to be filed 56. Proceedings thereon.
——oath required.

Sncr. 39. In all suits commenced by summons before a
justice of the peace, the plaintifff shall, at least three days
before the return day.thereof, file with the justice a concise
statement in writing of his cause of action, or the nature of
the wrong and injury of which he complains, if it be founded on tort; and in actions on contract the account, note
bill, bond, or other writing, bill of particulars, or other statement in writing of the nature of the demand on which he intends to rely."

SECT. 40. The defendant, if he appear on the return day of
the summons and have any special matter of defense in actions
of tort, or any special matter of payment, set-off, or other affirmative plea in actions on contract, shall, on or before the

calling of the 'cause,,f1le the same or a succinct statement

Sacr. 41. In actions against public officers on their official
 bonds, it shall not be required of the plaintifff to assign any
specific breach or breaches of the conditions of such bonds.

Snow. 42. Either party may be permitted by the justice to
amend his statement before entering into trial; and neither party shall be permitted to give evidence of any cause of action
or defense or any item thereof not filed as above directed, or

d. not contained in his written statement or bill of particulars;
except such matters as may be given in evidence under the general issue or may be necessary to rebut the testimony or matters shown by the adverse party; but in actions founded in tort

the defendant may, in all cases, show every matter of defense
under the general issue.‘

Sscr. 43. The defendant shall always have the benefit of
the general issue, with or without pleading it, exce t that proof
of the execution of any instrument, which is the oundation of
the plaintifff-’s action, or set forth in the statement of his cause
of action, shall not be required by reason of the general issue,
unless the same be pleaded and verified by oath.’r

Sscr. 44. No statement of the cause of action or pleading
in any cause shall be defeated in a suit before a justice, or on
appeal from his judgment to the circuit court, for want of form;
and no misnomer of an action, either in the process or pleadings,
shall justify a dismissal thereof.I

Sscr. 45. In actions of assumpsit founded on open and running accounts between the parties, the plaintiti”’s bill of particulars shall include all the running accounts in his favor against
the defendant, which shall have accrued up to the time of instituting such suit, then due and unpaid; and on neglect so to do,
and on proof thereof by the defendant, in any subsequent suit
therefore, against him, such plaintifff shall be adjudged to pay the
costs of such suit.

SE01‘. 46. The pendency of a suit by summons shall not be
a bar to a subsequent suit commenced by capias between the
same parties, and on the same cause of action, if it appear on
the trial of such subsequent suit, that the defendant had done, or
was about to do, any of those acts which render the institution
of a suit by capias lawful. _

Snow. 47. No plea or statement in the nature of a lea in
abatement, other than to the jurisdiction of the justice or or matter appearing on the face of the plaintifff’s statement, shall be
received by the justice, unless supported by oath or affirmation§

Sncr. 48. The plea of non est factum, ‘non-assignment, or
any other plea, replication, or other pleading, denying or requiring proof of the execution or assignment of any bond, bill,

release, or other instrument in writing, which is the foundation
of any suit or defense, and is especially set forth as such in the
declaration, plea, or other pleading, shall not impose the necessity of such proof, unless verified by oath or atiirmation.

Snow. 49. When any such pleading or statement denies or
requires proof of any assignment, the oath or affirmation shall
be that the party has reason to. believe, and does believe, that
the assignment was not made before the suit was commenced.

Snow. 50. In suits brought by executors and administrators
on demands of the deceased, the defendant may set off demands
existing against their testator or intestate belonging to the defendant at the death of any such testator or intestate, in the
same manner as if the action had been brought by or in the
name of the deceased.

Snow. 5]. Whenever any action upon an contract, express
or implied, is pending before a justice, it shall be lawful for the
defendant to plead, or give notice thereof as a set-off, any judgment rendered in his favor by any justice of the peace or court
of record in this state, against the plaintifff, or any such judgment
that has been legally transferred to him before the commencement of such action." a

Sncr. '52. Upon the trial any such judgment may be proved
bé a transcript thereof, under the hand and seal of the proper
o cer.

Snow. 53. Whenever the defendant has any special matter
of set-off or payment, he may specially plead the same or give
notice thereof by filing a bill of particulars or a succinct statement thereof in writing. .

Snow. 54. In every action instituted before a justice of the
peace where the title to lands and tenements shall in any Wise
come in question, the defendant, at any time before entering
upon the trial, may plead specially any plea showing that the
title of lands will come in question; but no such plea shall be
received by the justice unless the samebe verified by oath or
afiirmation, to be true as the afiiant verily believes.

Snow. 55. When such plea is filed, or when it shall appeal‘

on the trial by the proof, that the title to lands and tenements

is necessarily involved, the justice shall proceed no further in
the cause, but shall forthwith make out a transcript of his proceedings therein, and within twenty days thereafter file the same:
with all the papers belonging to such cause, in the office of the
clerk of the proper circuit court.

Snow. 56. Such cause shall be docketed by the clerkaand
the court shall proceed therein in the same manner as if such
cause had been originally commenced in such court, without
further notice or process.

ARTICLE V.

Of continuances.

Sscrroxv Sscrrox
57. When allowed on a capias. 1. By 65. Continuance, when on account of
consent. 2. On defendant's afiida- amendment of pleading.
vit. How long: bail. 66. Cause of action not being filed, de58. Form of such recognizance of bail. fendant may continue at plaintifff's
59. Bail may surrender. cost.
60. Continuance may be on application of 67. If jury demanded, continuance until
either party for not over 60 days. next day.
61. Not for defendant unless he will ex- 68. Costs of continuance.
hibit his set-off. &.c. 69 . When continuance for absence of de62. Continuance for absent testimony li- ' fendant at plaintitT’s costs.
mited to sixty days. 70. Defendant having been subpoenaed,
63. When asked for more than ten days, coststo abide event of suit.
what must be disclosed, 71, Depositions of witnesses then present
-64. When with or without costs. may be takenSE01‘. 57. No continuance of a cause commenced by capias
shall be allowed, except in the following cases:

1. By consent of both parties, for any time agreed upon, allowing the defendant to give special bail, if he desire it; or,

2. On the application of the defendant, supported by his
oath, that he has a good defense to the plaintiH"s action, and
that he is not ready to proceed’ to the trial thereof, stating specilically the g1'ounds on which he asks a continuance;

In which case it shall not be granted for a longer time than
thirty days; or if granted on account of an absent witness, it
shall not be for a longer term than sixty days at one time, allowing the defendant to give special bail, if he desire it.

Sscr. 58. The recognizance of bail to be taken as is above
provided, may be in_ the following form:

State of Indiana, county, township, ss :

Whereas, A— B— has been arrested, and is in custody at
the suit of C— D—, in an action of , for the sum of ;
Now thereforee, I, E— F—, do acknowledge myself special bail
for the said A— B— in said action, that he shall personally be
and appear before J— H—, a justice of the peace of the township aforesaid, at his office therein, on the day of , at
—— o’clock, in the ——noon, to answer to said suit, and not
depart therefrom unless discharged according to law. I
. . (Signed) E. F.

Taken and acknowledged this day of 18-, before
me. J. H., justice of the peace.

SECT. 59. Any special bail may surrender his principal to
the constable before trial; in which case it shall be the duty of
the justice, unless the defendant give other special bail before
the justice, to commit him to the prison of the county until the
day set for trial; or the bail may surrender him to the justice at
the time of trial, in discharge of his recognizance.

   

   

Sncr. 60. A justice of the peace may grant a continuance
of any cause, other than actions commenced by a capias, upon
the affidavit of either party, if it shall bemade satisfactorily to
appear that justice requires such continuance; but the same

shall not be for a longer time than sixty days.
Sncr. 61. No continuance of any cause shall be allowed toa

defendant, when the account or demand of the opposite party
shall have been previously filed, unless the defendant applying
forsuch continuance, if required thereto, shall exhibit his account or demand on which he relies as a set-off, or payment, if
he have any such, as far as may be in his power, to the satisfaction of the justice.

Sacr. 6‘.-2. In all cases before a justice, where either party
makes affidavit that he has a material witness, or other material
testimony, which he has notbeen able to procure after due diligence, and showing where such Witness resides, if his residence
be known, or where such testimony may be, and the probability of
procuring the same within a reasonable time, and that such affidavit is not made for delay merely, but for the furtherance of
justice, the justice shall continue such cause for any length of
time which ma be necessary, not exceeding sixty days.

Sncr. 63. n all applications for continuances on account of
the absence of a material witness, for a longer term of time

' than ten days, it shall be necessary for the party making such
application to state also in his affidavit, the substance or princi. pal facts expected to be proved by such absent witness, in order
that the justice may judge of the materiality of such testimony,
and that such party knows of no other witness by whom he can
prove the same facts, whose testimony he can as readily p1‘0cure.
or Sacr. 64. All continuances granted by a justice of the
*- peace, may be with or without costs to the party applyltfg
therefore, at the discretion of the ‘justice, according to the c1rcumstances of the case, and in conformity with the practice of
fhe circuit court, unless otherwise specially provided for by
aw.
, Snow. 65. A If either party amend the statement of his cause
L‘? of action or defense, by adding to or striking out therefrom any
or material matter, before entering on the trial, and It shall be
made to appear to the justice, by affidavit or otherwise, that the
adverse party will be rendered less prepared to prosecute or defend the suit than he would have been if no such amendment
had been made, he shall be entitled to a continuance for such a
length of time as ma be reed u on b the arties,orast0
. . Y 38' P Y P
the justice may appear reasonable, at the costs of the Party
making the amendment.‘
jug _ Smcr. 66. If the plaintifff shall not have filed his cause of acf° tion for the lencrth of time required by the first section of the last

id’ preceding artic e, before the day of trial, such cause, if the defend‘ant require it, shall be continued to such time as the justice shall

deem reasonable, not to exceed ten days, nor less than three
days, and the plaintifff shall pay the costs of such continuance.

Snow. 67. It", on the day set for the trial of the cause, either
party demand a venire to issue for a jury, such cause shall be
continued until the next day, or if the next day be Sunday, to
the Monday next following, unless the opposite party shall agree
to proceed to trial without such continuance; and if the cause
be continued, the party demanding such jury shall pay the costs
of such continuance; but if the jury were demanded before the
day] set for such trial, the provisions of this section shall not
app ."‘

Siibr. 68. The party required to pay costs by the provisions
of the last three preceding sections, shall be taxed with the
costs of the continuance, including costs of subpoenas, and service and return thereof, and witnesses’ fees for attendance on
that day.

Snow. 69. If the plaintifff shall neglect to subpoena the defendant, whom he may desire to make a witness in the cause,
and shall apply on the day set for trial for a continuance, on_account of the non-attendance of such defendant, such continuance shall not be granted unless at the costs of the plaintifff,
according to the rule prescribed in the last preceding sect1on.T

Snow. 70. If a cause be continued on the motion of the
plaintifff‘, on account of the absence of the defendant, after being
subpoenaed to attend as a witness, the costs of such continuance
shall abide the event of the suit; and the provisions of this and
the preceding section shall apply in cases in which the defendant may desire to make the plaintifff a witness.T '

SECT. 71. When any continuance is granted, either party
shall be allowed the privilege of having any such witness or
witnesses as he may desire, then in attendance,‘ examined on
oath, and his or their testimony reduced to writing, and_certified by such justice, and left with the justice, and read "1 9V1‘
deuce on the trial of the cause, unless such witness be present;
for which such justice shall be entitled to charge the same fees

as in case of depositions, to be taxed with the costs of the
cause. ~

 

‘ARTICLE VI.

0f uzitnesses and depositiomo

SECTION SECTION
72. When justice may take depositions. 75. Party 1111183 P0)’ 003” W110 5ubP°3n39
73- Who may serve subpoenas. too many Witnesses74. No fees allowed when not served by I 76. Alsowhen witness is not used. 111119392
an officer. &.c.

SECTION
87. Same provisions applicable on appeals.

88. Depositions, in what cases taken, and

BCTION
F7. Witness must claim fees before judgment is entered.
78. Attachments against witnesscs,when rules.
allowed. 89. Dedimus may issue; depositions lobe
79. How executed; costs and fine thereon. endorsed and sent to justice.
B0. When party may sue witness. 90. Dedimus, to whom directed.

81, When defendant may be examined as 91. Depositions de bene esse.
a witness. 92. Dedimus unnecessary in same county.

82. When‘ plaintifff may be examined as 93. Manner of taking depositions.
94. When to be opened.
95. Depositions out of county may be

without dedimus; notice required

a witness.
83. May testify to the whole subject matten

84. Parties resident of the county may be in all cases. _
subpoenaed. - ' 96. Authentication required, within or
85. Judgment as confessed, &c. if party without this state.

refuse to testify.
86. Parties being non-resident depositions

may be taken.

Srecr. 72. Any justice of the peace may issue subpoenas to
compel the attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any
trial pending before himself or another justice of his county, 01'
on a dedimus or any commission, or other lawful authority to

take depositions or perpetuate test1mon.y.*
Snow. 73. A subpoena may be served either by a constable

or any other person, and shall be served by reading the same or
stating the contents thereof to the witness, or by leaving acopy

thereof at his usual place of_ residence.

SEc'r. 74. When not served by a constable or some person
deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be charged
in the suit for serving it. _

> SECT- 75- If any party shall order a subpoena for or mtro’ duce 011 trial more than two Witnesses to prove any one fact.
such party shall pay the costs of such supernumerary witness

or Witnessess.
Sncr. 76. If any witness having been subpoenaed attendi

§ and be not examined by either party, the costs of such witness
' shall be paid by the party ordering the subpoena, unless the adverse party, by confessing the matter, or otherwise, render unnecessary the examination of such witness.
Snow. 77. Witnesses shall not be entitled to p ,
I1 nor shall a justice charge it in making up the costs of a suit»
unless they shall have made their claim. for their attendance before the enterireg up of the jud merit.
Sncr. 78. henever it shal appear to the
3 justice of the peace, by proof made before him, tha
' has been duly served with a subpoena to appear an _
mony before him, in any matter in which he has auth_01‘1W t.°
require such witness to appear and testify, that his testim0nY,'s
material, and that he refuses or neglects to attend as such witness, in conformity with such subpoena, the justice shall ‘We

satisfaction Of 3

t any person
d give testipower to issue an attachment to compel the attendance of such

witness.

SECT. 79. Every such attachment shall be executed in the
same manner as a capias ad respondendum; and the fees for
issuing and serving it shall be paid by such delinquent, together
with such fine as the justice shall think reasonable, not less than
one dollar nor more than three dollars, unless some reasonable
excuse be shown, on the oath of such witness or of some other
person; and a witness appearing and refusing to testify, when
he ought to testify, may e fined not exceeding three dollars for
every such refusal.

Seer. 80. Every erson subpoenaed as aforesaid, and neglecting to appear, or reilising to testify, shall also be liable to the
party in whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed, for all damages which such party may sustain by reason of such nonappearance or refusal.

SECT. 81. In all trials of actions founded on contract, express
or implied, before a justice of the peace, if the claim of the plaintifff, or any part thereof, be denied by the defendant, it shall be
lawful for the plaintifff to require of the defendant to answer on
oath to such claim; and if the defendant, when sworn, deny
the same, the plaintifff shall not have judgment, unless he establish his claim by legal evidence.°“

SECT. 82. Whenever the defendant in any such action shall
allege matter of payment or set-off to the plaintifff’s demand,
or plead or set up any other valid special defense in bar, he may
in like manner require the plaintifff to answer such plea or allegation on his oath.T _

SE01‘. 83. The plaintifff or defendant, when so required to be
sworn by his adversary, shall be at liberty to testify concerning
the whole matter in controversy, both as to the cause of action
and defense, as a disinterested witness might do.

SECT. 84. Either party residing in the county where such
action is pending, may, at the request of his adversary, be subpoenaed and compelled to attend and testify as aforesaid, in the
manner and under the same penalties as other witnesses.

SECT. 85. Upon the refusal of either party, when subpoenaed ‘

by personal service of the subpoena, to appear, or appearing,
upon his refusal to answer as a witness for the adverse party,
as prescribed in this chapter, the justice may enter judgment
against the party refusing, as if the alleged claim or demand

were confessed, or the plea or defense admitted, as the case may
be. '

Sncr. 86. The deposition of either party, residing out of the
county where the suit is pending, may, in such cases, be taken
by his adversary, and read in evidence, in the same manner as
the depositions of other witnesses.

Snow. 87. In the trials of all appeals in such cases in the
circuit court, the _provisions of the five last preceding sections
shall be adopted and pursued, except that if the plaintifff or defendant reside in another county, he may be subpoenaed and
compelled to appear and testify as other witnesses.

Saar. 88. Depositions may be taken to be read in any cause
pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner and subject to‘ the same restrictions and rules of law, not repugnant to
the following provisions of this article, as in cases pending in a
court of record.‘

Snow. 89. Such depositions may be taken in pursuance of a
dedimus issued by the justice of the peace before whom such
cause shall be pending; and when taken. shall be enclosed and
directed by the officer taking the same to such justice.

Sacr. 90. Such dedimus may issue to any justice of the
peace of the same county, or of any other county in the state,
or to any officer in this or in another state, authorized to take
depositions to be read in a cause pending in any of the courts
of this state.’[ _

Snow. 91. When a witness is sick and unable to attend, or
about to leave the county and will not probably return until
after the trial, his deposition may be taken before such justice
or any other justice of the county, and read on the trial if he
shall not be able to attend, or shall not have returned to the
county in time for such trial.

Snow. 92. Wheneverthe deposition of any witness resident
of the same county with the justice of the peace tryin a cause
is necessary to be taken, the same may be taken be ore such
justice without a dedimus. _

Sac-r. 93. Each party shall be allowed to put interrogatories
to the witnesses deposing, and the depositions so taken shall be
subscribed and sworn to by each witness, and certified by the
officer taking them.

Sncr. 94. Such deposition or depositions sealed up 8-D_d
transmitted to the justice before whom the suit or matter 1_s
pending, may be opened on the day of trial and read as 6V1‘
deuce; or such de ositions may be opened and examined before the day of tria by consent of parties. .

Snow. 95. Either party may take the depositions of witnesses

, living out of the county in which the suit 18 pending, but within

this state, with or without a dedimus; but in all cases the part)’
taking such deposition shall first give the adverse p=}TtYa ms

em, or attorney, reasonable notice in writing of the time and
p ace of taking the same.1

Snow. 96. The official certificate of the justice of the peace
or other authority before whom any such deposition may be
taken, if within this state, shall be a sufficient authentication,
and of the legal fees for taking and certifying the same, which
shall be taxed thereon; but if such deposition be taken out of
the state, it shall be further authenticated by the certificate and
seal of a clerk of some court of record in the county where
the same may have been taken, certifying that the officer before whom such depositions were taken is such officer as he is
described, commissioned and qualified, by the laws of that state,
unless the officer taking such depositions shall have a seal of
oliice, in which case his certificate, attested with such oliicial

seal, shall be a sufficient authentication.

AR'l‘I_CLE V11.

Of the trial of issues of fact and the incidents thereto.

Sscrron Sscrrorz
97. If no jury is demanded, trial to pro- 113. Verdict to be delivered publicly.
ceed at time appointed. 114. When jury may bedischarged with98. Trial by consent.
99. Jury to be demanded before proceeding to trial.

100. Venire.

101. When plaintifff shall pay the costs
of jury.

102. When a jury of six,

103. Or any other number agreed upon.

104. Venire to be executed bya disinterested officer.

105. Manner of its service and return.

106. Right of challenge. .

107. Oath of jury.

108. Evidence to be public in presence of
the jury.

109. When a party may testify in his
own behalf.

110. Objections to a witness, how determined.

lll. Oath of witness.

112. Jury to be kept together until verdict, or discharged—oath of constable in charge of jury.

SECT. 97.

the time and place appointed
demanded by

0
_ either party, the justice shall
such issue, to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and P‘

out agreement—venire de novo.

115. When security for costs may be required.

116. Contempts of court, how punished.

117. New trials, justice‘s power to grant,
and when—notice thereof.

118. Notice of the motion for new trial.

119. Costs of new trial, by whom to be
paid. ‘

120. Arbitrators, how chosen; their oath.

121. Summons may be issued for arbitratrators—by whom served.

122. Oath of arbitrators—trial and award

123. Judgment on award.

124. To be final unless appeal in ten days.

125. On appeal, award to stand unless
set aside.

126. If set aside, circuit court to render
judgment.

127. Arbitrators and witnesses compelled to attend.

128. Arbitrators’ fees.

Whenever the arties to any suit shall appear at It
fp r trial, if no jury shall have been :3
proceed to try th

to determine the same according to law and the very right of

the case.

SECT. 98. When parties agree to enter, without process,

before any justice of the peace, any action or suit in this

chapter made cognizable before him,’ such justice shall enter the
same in his docket, and proceed to trial, judgment, and execution

in all respects in the same manner-as if original process had been

issued, served, and returned."' _
Snow. 99. After the service of process, but before the ]llStice shall have proceeded to an investigation of the merits o‘

the cause by an examination of a witness, or the hearing 01

any other testimony, either of the parties, or the agenjhop Sta ie

‘torney of either of them, may demand of the justice
cause be tried by a jury.]‘ _
SECT. 100. Thereupon the justi

rected to any constable of his township coin .
summon twelve good and lawful men of said_township,_n0n8
of whom shall be related to either party, or interested in the
suit, to appear before such justice at a time and place therein to
be named, to make a jury for the trial of such cause.
u Sscr. 101. If the plaintifff shall demand_a ]l1l‘_V of tW€lV°
'9 jurors, and such jury shall not find a verdict in the cause f01' at

least twenty dollars in favor of the plaintifff, such plaintifff shall

pay the fees of such jury, and all additional costs occasioned

by such jury trial. . , H
5 Si-zcr. 102. At the request of either party, the justice sha

issue a venire for only six jurors where the amount in 0011'
troversy does not exceed twenty dollars, who shall be 1mp1111'

nelled to try the cause.
SECT. 103. The parties may agree u

be to constitute a jury. _ , .
Sacr. 104. The justice issuing such venire shall deliver its 9‘
ble of the townsh1pad‘5'

cause it to be delivered to some consta

interested between the parties. _ d'1.
Sizer. 105. The constable to whom a venire shall be 61:

re- vered, shall execute the same fairly and impartially,
sonal service thereof: he shall not summon any ‘

he has reason to believe is biassed or prejudice th
either of the parties, and shall make a list of the names of 0

persons summoned, certified by him and annexed to the venire,
which he shall return to the justice.
1111- SECT. 106. The parties shall hav
lenge to any of the jurors so summoned and appearing:
tory or for cause, as is provided

cuit court by the regular panel of jurors.i m a_
SECT. 107. The 'ustice shall administer an oath 0r_=l Fm
{ ' difference

tion to the jury wel and truly to try the matte!‘ 111
between , , plaintifff, and and 3‘ We
verdict give according to evidence.

pon any other number

ll'y.

 

9

Sncr. 108. After the jury shall have been duly sworn, they
shall sit together and hear the proofs and allegations of the
parties, which shall be delivered publicly in their presence.

Sncr. 109. A party in the suit or having an interest in the
judgment sought to be recovered, may be a witness to prove
the death or absence beyond the reach of a subpoena of the
justice of a subscribing witness to, or the loss of, any instrument of writing which shall come in question on the trial, in
order to introduce other proof of the execution or contents of
such instrument; but in no other case except as otherwise provided by law or by the consent of parties.

Sncr. 110. If a witness, on being produced, shall be objected to as incompetent, such objection shall be tried and determined by the justice, and evidence may be given in support of
or against such objection as in other cases; or the proposed
witness may be examined on oath by the party objecting; and
in such last case no other testimony shall be received from
either party as to the competency of such witness.’

Sscr. 111. Every person offered as a witness, before any
testimony shall be given, by him, shall be duly sworn or affirmed
that the evidence which he shall give relating to the matter in
difference between the plaintifff and the defendant, shall be the
truth the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

S1-:c'r. 112. After hearing the proofs and allegations of the
parties, the jury shall be kept together in some convenient
place, under the charge of a constable, until they have agreed
upon their verdict, or shall be discharged by the justice; and
for that purpose the justice shall administer to such constable
the following oath or affirmation: “ You do swear, (or affirm)
that you will, to the best of your ability, keep the persons
sworn as jurors on this trial together in some private and convenient lace, without meat or drink, except such as shall be
ordered by me; and that you will not suffer any communication,
orally or otherwise, to be made to them; that you will not communicate with them yourself, orally or otherwise. unless by my
order, or to ask them if they have agreed on their verdict, until
they shall be discharged; and that you will not, before they
render their verdict, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations or the verdict which they have agreed upon.”

Sxcr. 113. When the jurors shall have agreed upon their
verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice publicly, who shall
enter it in his docket. '

Sscr. 114. Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that a
jury sworn in any cause before him cannot agree in their verdict, after having consulted upon it a reasonable time, be may
discharge them and continue the cause, and may issue a new
venire, if required, returnable Within such time as to such justice
shall appear reasonable ; unless the parties, their agents or attorneys, shall agree upon a longer or shorter time, or unless they

tially.

shall agree that the justice may render judgment on the evidence already before him.

Sscr. 115. In all cases where the plaintifff shall not reside
in the count where the suit is brought or to be brought, the
justice may, efore issuing process or entering the action, or at
any time before trial, with or without motion, require and cause
such plaintifff to give surety for costs, which may be by bond of
some approved person, resident in the county, or by entry in
the justice’s docket, signed by the surety, or, at the election of
the plaintifff, by a deposit of an amount of money with the justice sufficient for the payment of all costs incurred or to be
incurred in such action.

Sncr. 116. In all cases where any witness or other person
shall be guilty of a contempt before any justice, while sitting
or acting in his official capacity on the trial or hearing of any
cause, such 'ustice shall have the power to impose a line therefore u on such witness or other person, not exceeding three dollars or each contempt, to which may be added, in each case,
im risonment not exceeding three hours.

nor. 117. It shall be lawful for the justice before whom a
cause has been tried, on motion, and for cause shown by either
party, to grant a new trial, at any time within four days after
the entering of judgment, and set a time for the new trial, of
which the opposite party shall have at least three days’ previous
notice. *

Sncr. 118. The op osite party shall also have reasonable
notice of such motion or a new trial, if the same be not made
on the day of the former trial, and in the presence of such
party; such notices to be given by the applying party. . "

Sncr. 119. When a new trial is granted on the application
of any party, on the ground of newly discovered testimony,.h8
shall pay all costs which have accrued to the time of obtaining
such new trial; and in all other cases such new trial may be
granted with or without the payment of costs, or a part 9f the
costs, in the discretion of the justice, according to the circumstances of the case. ,

Snow. 1220. At any time before trial, the parties agreeing
thereto may have their cause submitted for decision to three
disinterested men, to be chosen by themselves, asarbitratorsa
who, if present, shall hear and determine the cause, on Oflth 0’
allirmation, to be administered by the justice, to decide imparSacr. 121. If the arbitrators so chosen be not presenta ‘he
justice if required, shall issue a summons for them_to attend_al
a certain time and place agreed upon by the part1esa01'des'.g'
nated by the justice if they do not agree thereon, and noted 111
his docket; and such summons may be served by the constable»
or one of the parties, or some other person, as the)’ may

agree.

Sscr. 122. The arbitrators, when met and sworn, at the
time and place appointed, shall, if the parties, or either of them,
attend, proceed to hear and determine the cause, according to
the allegations and proofs of the parties; and they, or a majority of them, shall make out and sign an award, and return the
same to the justice by a certain day to be fixed upon, and noted
on the docket at the time of choosing the arbitrators.

SECT. 123. On such award bein so returned to the justice,
he shall, on the day so fixed‘ for t e return thereof, enter the
same on his docket, and render jud merit thereon.

Sncr. 124. Such judgment shal be final and conclusive, as
to all matters submitted to said arbitrators, unless, within ten
days after the rendition thereof, an appeal to the circuit court
shall be taken. '

Sncr. 125. When an appeal from such award and judgment
shall be taken to the circuit court, such award shall be there
affirmed with costs, unless the same be vacated by the court;
and the court may affirm, modify, and correct, or vacate such
award for any of the grounds or reasons specified in the fortyfourth cha ter of these Revised Statutes, and may in like manner hear t e proofs and allegations of such parties to vacate or
sustain such. award.

Seer. 126. If, in any of ~the cases mentioned in the last
preceding section, the circuit court shall set aside the. award of
the arbitrators, and‘the judgment of the justice thereon, such
court shall proceed to final trial and judgment, as in other cases
of appeal.* _

Sacr. 127. The arbitrators and witnesses subpoenaed in_ such
cases shall be compelled to attend, under the same penalties to
which jurors and witnesses are liable in other cases; and such
justice shall swear the witnesses, and shall have power to punish
for all contempts and disorderly behavior in presence of the
arbitrators, as in cases before a justice of the peace.

SECT. 128. Such arbitrators shall be entitled to fifty cents
each per day for their services, to be taxed by the justice with
the other costs in the case ; but if the award of the arbitrators,
and the judgment of the justice thereon, be reversed for fraud,
corruption, or undue means, the arbitrators acting therein shall
receive no fees for their services as such.

ARTICLE VIII.
Of judgments, and of transcripts thereof’ to bind real estate.

SECTION A ' SEGPION
JUDGMENTS. 550- 130. Judgment, when in four days.
129. Judgment, when to be forthwith ren- 131. In cases of confessed judgment, oath

dered. required.

 

acrron Sacrxox

32. Otherwise to be void, except as to 147. Fines for non-attendance as witiunocent purchasers, parties, &.c; nesses or jurors, and for mntempts,

33. Judgment for costs vs. plaintifff. tobeentered on docket and deemed

.34. Judgment for a balance due defenv judgment; no appeal.
dant.
L35. Proceedings if defendant fail to ap- TMNSCI-“PT To mm) mm‘ ESTATE
pear. 148. On return of nulla bona, transcript
l36. Judgments by default maybe opened. may be had.
137. Judgments generally to carry costs. 149. Same to be filed in clerk's oiiice, re138. Judgment, when set-off established; corded, and entered in judgment
execution. docket.

139. Judgments for balance due on judg- 150. Within two years transcript maybe
ments pleaded as set-off. so filed and recorded without exe140. If excess would exceed jurisdiction cution, &.c.
of justice, defendant may withhold 151. Clerks to record transcript; f°9th°‘°'
and afterwards sue therefore. ' for.

141. \Vhen a judgment is set off, justice 152. Transcript to be a lien on debtor’6
to give a certificate of the amount; lands. _
its effect. _‘ 153. Sci. fa. to obtain execution, on certi142. Judgment on set-off vs. executors ficate, or return of nulla bona.
and administrators. 154. Cause to be docketed.

143. No judgment vs. assignee in certain 155. Suggestion that defendant has lands.
cases of set-off. &.c., and proof thereof required

144. Party may reduce the sum found due 156. Similar proceedings vs. decedenl3'
to the jurisdiction of justiw. lands on judgments against thelfl

145. Suggestion of return “ not found," . 157. Circuit courts to have jurisdiction In
and proceedings, vs. those served cases of sci. fa.
with process. 158. Sci. fa. shall not be dismissed for in146. Note or bond maybe withdrawn for formality in judgment; my be
suit against _those not found. amended without continuanceJudgments, 

Sncr. 129. In all cases where the plaintifff shall be non-suited:
discontinue, or withdraw his action, or where judgment shall be
confessed; and in all cases where a verdict of a jury shall have
been rendered, or the defendant shall be in actual custody at
the time of hearing the cause, the justice shall forthwith render
judgment and.enter the same in his docket. _

Sncr. .130. In all other cases, the justice shall render ]l1(lg'

.ment and enter the same in his docket within four days after
the cause shall have been submitted to him for his final deCISIOII.

_ Sncr. 131. Whenever any person shall voluntarily confess
judgment in favor of another for any sum over twenty dollars,
before entering judgment on such confession, the justice 0 the
peace shall administer an oath or affirmation to the pe1‘S0n 5°
confessing, that he does not confess such judgment to defraud
any of his creditors, but that he is justly indebted to the person
in whose favor such judgment is to be entered for the full amount
for which he so confesses judgment; which oath or affirmation,
together with the grounds or consideration of such indebtedness,

shall be reduced to writing and filed with the justice as in other
cases; and no appeal shall lie from a confessed judgment.*

Snow. 132. Every judgment confessed without a compliance
with the provisions of the last preceding section, shall be void
as against all persons,'except a purchaser in good faith of any
goods or chattels, lands or tenements, under such judgment, and
except as between the plaintifff, or his assigns, and the defendant, their heirs, executors, and administrators.

Seer. 133. Judgment for costs shall be rendered against a
plaintifff prosecuting a suit before a justice of the peace,

1. If he discontinue or withdraw his action, or be non-suited;

2. If he fail -to establish his claim; \ l

3. If it appear on the trial of the cause, by his own showing,
that the title to lands or tenements is in question and disputed
by the defendant.

SECT. 134. If in any cause it shall appear on the trial that
there is a balance due from the plaintifff to the defendant, the
justice shall enter judgment against the plaintifff, in favor of_ the
defendant, for the sum so appearing or found to be due, with
costs.

Sncr. 135. If the defendant, having had lawful notice, shall
not appear at the time and place appointed for trial, personally
or by agent or attorney, and no just cause being shown for_such
non-appearance, the justice shall, at the request of the plaintifff,
hear his proofs and allegations, determine the cause, and enter
judgment therein. ‘

Smcr. 136. If a judgment be entered against a party by default, or for not appearing and pleading, the justice shall set
aside the default and open the judgment on the motion of the
party in default, upon the following conditions:

1. That his motion be made Within ten days after such judgment has been entered;

2. That he pay or confess judgment for the costs awarded
against him, and replevy such judgment;

3. That he notify in writing the opposite party, his agent or
attorney, or cause it to be done, of the opening of such judgment, and of the time and place appointed for trial, at least six
days before the time, if the party resides in the county; and if
he be not a resident of the county, by leaving a written notice
theiieof at the office of the justice ten days before such day of
tria .

_ SECT. 137. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered by a
Justice of the peace against any party, it shall be with costs of
Suit, unless herein otherwise provided.

Sncr. 138. If the amount of any set-off duly established be
equal to the plaintifff’s debt or demand, judgment shall be entered
for the defendant with costs; if it be less than the plaintifff’s debt
or demand, as established, the plaintifff shall have judgment for
the residue only, with costs; if it be more than the plaintifff’s
debt or demand, and a balance be found due to the defendant from

the plaintifff in the action of one hundred dollars-or under, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant for‘the amount thereof
with costs; and an execution shall be awarded as upon a suit
brought by him. '

Smcr. 139. If the amount of any judgment, set off as herein
before provided, shall exceed the amount of the debt or demand
claimed by the plaintifff, the justice shall agive judgment for the
balance due the defendant, unless such b ance shall exceed the
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace.

Sncr. 140. If the defendant’s set-off shall in any case exceed
the plaintifff’s demand to an amount which, if found for him_ by
the justice or jury, will be more than the justice is authonsed
to render- judgment for, such defendant may withhold setting
off such excess; and a recovery for the amount set off and
allowed, or any part thereof, shall not be a bar to his subsequent
action for the amount so withheld. _

Sncr. 141. Wheneverany judgment shall be set off, It shall
be the duty of the justice before whom such set-off 13 made, to
give the plaintifff a certificate thereof, under his hand and seal,
which, when filed with the-proper justice or clerk, shall stay all
further proceedings on the judgment so set off, and shall be 3

satisfaction thereof; except in cases where the balance, as specified in the preceding section, shall exceed the jurisdiction of
a justice of the peace, in which case so much of the amount of

the judgment so set off and allowed before the said justice shall
be credited on the certificate of such justice, on such judgmenli
and the defendant before such justice shall be entitled to have
execution in the court in which such judgment was rendered_l0T
the excess of such judgment over the jurisdiction of the justiceSECT. 142. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered on 3
fr plea or statement of set-off in a suit brought by executors ‘or
’ administrators, it shall be against them in their representative
character, and shall be evidence of a debt established to be paid
in the course of administration. _ .
Siizcr. 143. No judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff where the contract which is the subject of the su1t_shall have
been assigned before the commencement of such suilafor any
balance due from any other person than the plaintifff in the 110'
tion. ,
he Sscr. 144. When an amount shall be found in favor of ell_l191'
ced party by the verdict of a jury, or upon trial before the justices
’“ exceeding the sum for which the justice is authorized to render

it

a judgment, such party may remit and release the excess, 811
take judgment for the residue. _ _ f the
0f Sscr. 145. When mesne process issued by a justice 0 f .
not peace shall be returned served as to one or more of the de 6“
- dants, and “ not found” as to another or other of the defendants
therein, the justice shall, if the plaintifff, his agent, 01' 3“°me.zd’
require it, enter the return on his docket and proceed to trlr.
and judgment against the parties served with process 01‘ 3Pf’e31e

ing, as in other cases where process has been served 011 ‘ll

defendants; and the plaintifff may, at any time afterwards, proceed against those not found, or any of them.

Sacr. 146. It shall be the duty of such justice, on the request
of such plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, who may be desirous of
proceeding against the other defendants, to permit him to withdraw the note, agreement, or obligation on which he may have
obtained such judgment, the justice retaining a copy thereof.

Sac-r. 147. Whenever a justice of the peace shall impose a
fine upon any person for non-attendance before him as a witness, or for refusal to testify; for non—attendance as a juror or
arbitrator, or for refusal to serve as such, or for a contempt of court,
such justice shall make in his docket an entry of such conviction
and of the cause thereof; and the same shall be considered a judgment in all respects, and subject to all the provisions relative to
judgments in criminal cases, but not subject to appeal.*

Transcript to bind real estate.

SECT 148. Whenever an execution against any judgment
debtor shall have been duly returned by a constable to the justice who issued it with a return endorsed thereon that no goods
or chattels could be found sufficient to satisfy such judgment
or any part thereof, such justice shall, at_the request.of the
judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if made within "two
years from the return day of such execution, make out and
certify a full, true, and complete transcript of the proceedings
and judgment in the cause, and of the return of such constable.T

SECT. 149. Such certified transcript shall be forwarded by
such justice to the office of the clerk of the circuit court of any
county in this state, or delivered to such judgment creditor, his
agent or attorney, to be filed and recorded in any such clerk’s
office and entered in the docket of judgments therein.

Si-zcr. 150. Any judgment creditor, his agent or attorney,
may, at any time within two years after the rendition of any
such judgment, without such execution issued and constable’s
return thereon, procure a certified transcript of such proceedings and 'udgment to be filed, and recorded, and entered on the

docket o judgments in the clerk’s office of any county in this
state. ' Sncr. 151. The clerk of the circuit court of «such county.

shall file and enter of record in the order book of such
court, and enter in the judgment docket thereof, all such
transcri ts of judgments and proceedings before justices of the
peace, liir the fee of twenty—{ive cents.

Saar. 152. Every such transcript when so filed, recorded,
and entered, shall constitute a lien upon, and bind, the lands
and tenements of such judgment debtor, situate in the county
where such transcript may be so filed, recorded, and docketed

in favor of such judgment creditor, as if such judgment had
been rendered in the circuit court of such county.

Snow. 153. Whenever any transcript shall have been filed
and recorded, with the return of the constable that no goods or
chattels could be found sufiicient to satisfy" such judgment or a
part thereof, or whenever any judgment creditor, his agent or
attorney, ‘shall have filed in the clerk’s office where any such
transcript of a justice’s judgment may have been filed and recorded, a certificate from the justice before whom the judgment
was rendered, that an execution had been issued thereon by
him to a constable of his county and duly returned by such
constable, that no goods or chattels could be found suliicient to
satisfy such judgment or a part thereof, and such judgment
creditor, his agent or attorney, shall require such clerk so to do,
such clerk shall issue a scire facias on such transcript against
the judgment debtor therein, by which he shall be summoned
to appear before the circuit court of the proper county, to
show cause, if any he have or can, why an execution should
not issue from such circuit court, on such judgment against his
goods and chattels, lands and tenements in such county.”

Smcr. 1.54. Upon the issuing of such scire facias, it shall be
the duty of such clerk to enter the cause on the issue docket of
such circuit court.

Snow. 155. Such scire facias shall, among other things, contain a suggestion that the judgment debtor has lands or tenements wlthin the county liable to execution; and such suggestion shall be supported by satisfactory proof to the circuit
court when the cause shall come to a hearing before it; and on
failing to make such proof, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to
judgment on his scire facias; but judgment of non-suit shall be
entered thereon against him in such circuit court with costs.

Sncr. 156. The provisions in this article relative to proceedings on scire facias on transcript shall extend to the lands
and tenements of decedents’ estates on judgments rendered
against the decedents in their lifetime. ,

Sncr. 157. Circuit courts in the several counties in this
state shall have jurisdiction of all causes of scire facias on
transcripts of judgments rendered by justices of the 08308»
which have been filed, recorded, and docketed as aforesaid, and
shall proceed and render judgments and executions thereon»
according to the rules of pleading and practice at law in other
cases, when not inconsistent with any of the provisions contained in this article.

Sncr. 158. No such scire facias shall be dismissed 01130’
count of any informality in the rendition or form of the jlldg‘
ment or the certificate of the justice of the peace, but the same
may be amended; and no defendant in any scire facias to bind
lands shall be entitled to a continuance in consequence of 3113'
such amendment.

A. B T I C L E I X .
Of appeals.
SECTION Section
159. Any party may appeal within 30 172. In appeals over 020, either party
days: stay of proceedings. may demand a jury.
160. Bond to be given. 173. For failing to prosecute, or appeal161. Condition thereof. ing for delay, 10 per cent. damages
162. May be signed by surety alone. allowed.
163. Transcript, &c. to be filed in circuit 174. Costa before justice taxed with costs

164.

165.

166.

167.
168.

169.

170.

171.

Sncr. 159.

court within 30 days, by justice.

Depositions to be filed with the appeal, and used.

When filed 10 days before term, to
stand for trial.

When not filed 10 days, to stand for
trial at subsequent term, unless by
consent it be tried sooner.

Justice's fees for filing appeal papers.

New appeal bond may be given, if
former bond be insuilicient.

When and how surety may be released from appeal bond.

New surety given: or if cause tried

or dismissed at same term, surety
liable.

Amendments of causes of action
and defense, when permitted.

175.
176.
177.
178.

179.

180.

' 181.

182.

in circuit court.

Costs, on appeal.

Same subject.

No appeal in suits on delivery bond
without affidavit of merits.

When appeal may be allowed after
30 days. .

No dismissal for failing to file tran
script in time, but continuance may
be had.

Justice to pay the costs thereby occasioned.

Justice being attorney not to appear
as such on appeals from his own
judgment.

Appeal being dismissed, proceedings
to obtain execution.

_ In all cases not otherwise specially provided for
in this chapter, or some other law of this state, any party to the ‘

judgment of any justice of the peace may appeal therefrom to

the circuit court of the county
rendered, within thirty days after the rendition of such judgwhere such judgment was

ment; and from and after the time of taking such appeal, all
further proceedings before the justice shall he stayed. *
Seer. 160. Before such appeal shall be allowed, the party

appealing shall file with the proper justice, a bond, with surety
to be approved of by such justice, payable to the appellee, in a
sum sufficient to secure the debt or damages, and all interest and

costs that have accrued before the justice, and that may accrue

in the circuit court. "
SECT. 161. The con
1. That the appellant will prosecute

hwithout unnecessary delay ;
2. That he will pay and satisfy the condemnation money and
awarded against him, on the

costs which may be adjudged or
a peal in such case in the circuit court, if judgment be there

given against him. _
Sacr. 162. In the absence of the appellant, such bond may

be signed by the surety alone.

Sncr. 163. When an appea '
' hand and seal, a full, true, and

make out and certify, under his
eedings and judgment before

, complete transcript of the proc '
him in such case, and shall cause the same, together with the appeal bond, and all the written statements of the cause of action
and defense of the parties, and all papers and writings in the
cause, to be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court
to which such cause is appealed, within twenty days after the

filing of the appeal bond.T
filed with the justice of the peace

Si-:c'r. 164. Depositions _
d in any cause, shall, if such cause be appealed, be transmitted and
filed with the appeal in the circuit court, and may be read III

evidence in the trial of the cause.
SECT. 165. Whenever an appeal shal
*9 days before the first day of any term,

1 .
:11 for trial at such term. _
Saar. 166. Should such transcript and papers in such appeal not be filed in the clerk‘s office ten days before the then
next circuit court, the clerk shall file such transcript and papers:

ditions of such bond shall be,
his appeal to effect, and.

0

but shall not docket the cause for that term, but for the term‘

next thereafter, unless the parties agree to try the cause at such
first term. ’

Saar. 167. All justices of the peace, other than those living
within the limits of a county seat, shall be allowed six cents per‘
mile for travelling to the clerk’s office to file a transcript or appeal papers therein, to be collected as their other fees in the
case are collected. .

Sncr. 168. No appeal shall be dismissed by the circuit court
on account of the informality or insuliiciency of such appeal
bond, if the appellant do, on or before the calling of the cause,
file a good and suliicient bond, with surety to the acceptance of
the court. *

Sncr. 169. If the surety or sureties in an appeal bond desire to be released therefrom, on application to the circuit court,
after having given the appellant at least three days previous notice thereof, such court shall cause an order to be entered, discharging such surety or sureties from all further liability therein,
except as is provided in the next section.

Sacr. 170. In such case, the appellant shall give other
surety to the acceptance of the court; and on failure so to do,
the cause shall not be continued, but it shall be tried at that
term, or if not, it shall be dismissed at the appellant’s cost, in
claither of which cases, the surety of such appellant shall be
iable.

Sacr. 171. The circuit court may permit the plaintifff to
amend his cause of action, or to file, at any time before the
cause is called for trial, an additional cause or causes of action,
without changing the form of action; and also the defendant
may be permitted to amend his defense, or to make one or more
statements of his defense,‘ where none has been «filed, or to file
one or more additional statements of defense; either party
amending, on the payment of such costs as the court may direct.

SECT. 172. The circuit court shall hear and determine all such
cases brought before it in a summary way, without a jury, unless
when the amount in controversy shall exceed the sum of twenty
dollars, in which case either party may require the cause to be
tried by a jury.

Sncr. 173. If any appellant shall fail to appear and prosecute his appeal in the circuit court, or if such appeal shall appear to have been taken for delay, such court may, on motion
of the appellee, afhrm the judgment of the justice in favor of
the appellee, with ten per centum damages thereon. and costs,
and give judgment therefore; or, on like motion of the appellee,
proceed to hear and determine the case as in other cases of
appeal.

SECT. 174. The costs taxed by the justice, and set forth in

his transcript, shall be taxed with the costs incurred in the cir-cuit court on the appeal.

Sncr. 175. Costs shall be allowed to the prevailing party in
judgments rendered on appeal in all cases of trial, with the following exceptions and limitations:

1. If the defendant against whom judgment is rendered before the justice appeal, and judgment thereon be rendered in
his favor, or the amount recovered before the justice be reduced
five dollars or more, costs shall be awarded to the appellant.

2. If a defendant in whose favor a judgment is rendered before the justice for any balance due him from the plaintifff, appeal, and he shall not recover at least five dollars more than the
amount recovered before the justice, costs shall be awarded to
the appellee.

3. If the plaintifff in whose favor judgment has been rendered
before the justice, appeal, and he shall not recover at least five
dollars more than the amount recovered before the justice, costs

shall be awarded to the appellee.
Sncr. 176. In all other cases the party recovering any sum

shall recover costs. , _
Sncr. 177. No appeal shall be allowed to defendants in
_ actions on delivery bonds, from justices to the circuit court,
;t unless upon affidavit of merits in the appeal, and that the same
is not sought to be taken for delay merely,'but for justice. _
SECT. 178. The circuit court may, on motion and aliidavit
of the party, his agent or attorney, authorize the taking of an
appeal, and direct how the same may be done, from the judgment of a justice, after the expiration of thirty days from the
rendition of such judgment, if it shall appear from such aHidavit or other evidence that such party wishing the appeal Was
prevented from taking the samewithin said thirty days by 1103'
voidable circumstances, or by the improper conduct of the
justice rendering the judgment or having the same in his possession, or of the appellee, and that he has merits in such
appeal.
Sncr. J79. No appeal from the decision of a justice 0 _
ile peace -shall be dismissed because suc '
L. to file the transcript in the proper cir ,
V prescribed bylaw; but the court in such case,' “his °f
either party require it, may continue the cause to the ne
5 SEc'r- 180. The costs occasioned to each party 1)
56- continuance shall be taxed separately from the other costs,
' may be recovered in an action of debt of such j '

in the name of the party against whom such cost

been -taxed.

SECT. 181. No attorney at law, holding a commission 353
hall be permitted to

-g
ause appealed

5:0 justice of the peace and acting as such, s
[is appear as attorney in the circuit court in any c
from his decision. , .

ll Sncr. 182. When any appeal is dismissed in ‘the C"'°“'t
‘,0 CPU”: the clerk of such court, at the request_of eltllef Pirt-V0’
i- his agent or attorney, shall certify to the justice from W 05

judgment such appeal was taken, the order or judgmenl

court dismissing such appeal, and upon such certificate being
filed with such justice, the party in whose favor the judgment
before such justice was rendered, may have execution and
other proceedings thereon in like manner as if such appeal had
never been taken.

ARTICLE x._

Of the removal of causes to the circuit court by writ of .certiorari.

Sacrion Sgcnon

183. Certiorari, when allowed. 191. Notice to defendant in certiorari.

184. Bond to be filed with the clerk of the 192. Notice, when to be given.
circuit court. 193. Cause, when to stand for hearing.

185. Writ must be applied for within 194. Technical defects, &.c. shall not be
thirty days after judgment; if is- regarded.

sued afterwards to be disregarded. 195. Same subject.
186. But circuit court may allow such 196. Reversal of cause may be in whole

writ within five years, on cause or in part; judgment and execushown. tion.
187. It shall stay and supersede execu- 197. On afiirmance, judgment for costs,
tion, &.c. and cause remanded, or judgment
188. Execution not to issue, and consta- rendered by circuit court.
ble not to execute after certiorari. 198. If judgment reversed, cause shall
189. Justice shall certify his proceedings be retained and tried.
to circuit court; fees. 199. Proceedings in case of reversal or
190. Justice may be compelled to amend aliirmance in part.
his return, &.c. 200. Writ, how issued.

Sac-r. 183. In all cases of judgment rendered before a justice
of the peace, either party thinking himself aggrieved by any
such judgment, may remove the same by writ of certiorari to
(tihe circuit court of the county where the judgment was renered."

Sncr. 184. The party intending to apply for such certiorari,

‘or some other person in his behalf, shall file in the oliice of

the clerk of the circuit court a bond to the adverse party, with
suliicient penalty and surety, conditioned for the payment of
all costs which may accrue on such writ of certiorari, if such
costs are adjudged by the court to be paid by him, and also
the payment of the amount of any judgment that may be rendered against such plaintifff in certiorari in such circuit court.
Sncr. 185. Such writ of certiorari shall not be allowed or

' issued in the vacation of the court, after the ex iration of thirty

days from the day on which the judgment soug t to be reversed
was rendered; and if any such writ shall issue in violation of
the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the justice
to whom it may be directed to disregard the same.

SECT. 186. But writs of certiorari may be allowed in term

’ time by the circuit court on cause shown, at any time within
v five years, if it shall be shown to the court by affidavit or otherwise that such judgment is not satisfied. _
S1-:c'r. 187. The writ of certiorari allowed under the previsions of this article, shall in all cases operate to stay execution,
or if an execution have issued shall operate as a supersedeas of
such execution, if a bond, as provided in the second section of
this article shall have been filed 'as therein required. .
Seer. 188. If the writ of certiorari be served on the justice

. before the issuing of execution, no execution shall issue; if execution shall have been issued, the plaintifff shall cause a certifi’cate from the clerk of the circuit court, of the issuing of such

writ, to be delivered to the officer in whose hands such execution may be; and from the time such certificate is delivered,

suchexecution shall be superseded.

Sncr. 189. The justice to whom such writ is directed, on
or before the return day thereof, shall make return thereto, certifying under his hand and seal all the matters and things 1'9‘
quired to be certified by such writ, to such circuit court, and
shall file the same in the clerk’s office; for which he shall be allowed the same fees as in cases of appeal from his judgment t0
the circuit court.°“

S1-zcr. 190. The circuit court shall have power to compel
such justice to make or amend such return by rule, attachment,
or mandamus, as the case may require. _

Saar.’ 191. As soon as such writ of certiorari shall be issued:
it shall be the duty of the plaintifff in certiorari to cause notice
thereof to be served on the defendant in such writ, his agent, 01'
attorney, by reading or by a copy of the notice left at lllS usual
place of residence; but if such party he not a resident of ‘SE
county, and have no agent or attorney therein, such notice sh b.
be given by setting up advertisements in three of the most Pud
lic places in the township in which such judgment was rendere 9
and a like advertisement in the office of the clerk of such county»
and continuing the same for two weeks.

Snow. 192. The notice required by the preceding section
shall be given at least ten days before the first day of the term
of the court to which such writ is returnable; but if a sufficient
number of days do not intervene between the date of the writ
and the return day thereof, the court may continue the cause
and make ‘such order respecting the notice as shall be necessary
and right.

Sncr. 193. At the first term after such notice shall have
been given ten days previous to the first day of such term, the
cause mav be brought to argument before the court, on the
motion of either party, Without any assignment or joinder in
error.

Sncr. 194. The court shall proceed and give judgment in
the cause as the right of the matter may appear, without regarding technical or formal omissions or defects in the proceedings before the justice which did not affect the merits."

Sncr. 195. No judgment shall be reversed merel for the
omission or misrecital of any oath; nor on account 0 any fees
being taxed improperly by any justice, except so far as relates
to such fees.

Sncr. 196. The court may affirm or reverse the judgment
of the justice of the peace in whole or in part, and may render
judgment therein as hereinafter provided, and execution may
issue thereon as upon other judgments in such court.

Saar. 197. If the judgment of the justice _be affirmed, the
court shall render judgment against the plaintifff for the_costs
upon such writ, and order their clerk to certify‘ their decision in
the premises to the justice, that such proceedings may be had
by him on the judgment thus affirmed as if such writ of certiorari had never been issued; or such court may render judgment
for the amount of the judgment before the justice and the costs
taxed by him, and award execution therefore.

Sncr. 198. If, on certiorari, the judgment of the justice of .
the peace be reversed or set aside, the court shall render judg- ;
ment of reversal and also judgment for the costs that have ac-1
crued up to that time, in the circuit court, in favor of the plain-.
tiff in the certiorari, and award execution therefore; but the
cause shall be retained by the court for trial and final judgment

as in cases appealed to such court from the judgment of the
justice of the peace.

SECT. 199. If the judgment of the justice of the peace be
reversed or afhrmed in part, the costs shall be taxed as the
court may direct; and in such case the court may give such instructions to the justice, or pronounce such judgment in the
premises as shall be, just and right.

Sncr. 200. The Writ of certiorari, whether issued in term
or in vacation, shall be issued by the clerk of the circuit court,
tested in his name, and sealed with the seal of the court, and

be returnable to the first day of the term next after the date
of such writ.

 

ARTICLE xgr.

Of the action of replevin.

Sscrron | Sscrron

201. When replevin lies; limited to $50. 210. Constable shall summon defendant.

202. Shall not lie in iiwor of execution and also the person in whose posdefendants, nor in proceedings for session property is found and make
collection of taxes. return.

203. Plaintiff must have right of posses- 211. Justice shall proceed to judgmenb
81011. etc. 204. Afiidavit required—its contents. 212. Damages when to be found for pm

205. Form of writ. 213. Action on plaintifff‘s bond.

206. How executed. , 214. Action to be regulated by rules Of

207. Who may be made defendant — de- circuit court.
fendants may sever in pleading. 215. Suit to proceed although proper‘? '39

208. When plaintifff shall give bond con- not found or delivered.
ditioned to proscute. make return, 216. And plaintifff may recover value
pay damages, etc., property shall thereof.
be delivered to him.

209. If bond not given, property to be
restored to defendant.

in S_nc'r. 201. An action of replevin shall lie for wrongfI1_11Y
taking and unlawfully detaining, or for unlawfully detaining
so. only, the personal oods and chattels of another person, of not

more than fifty dol ars in value. _ , f
‘of Sncr. 202. No execution defendant shall have his action 0

*- replevin before a justice of the peace against any oilicera t0 ‘"3’
plevy property taken by virtue of an execution, except P1'°P°r'
of ty exempt from execution; nor in the collection (ff 1111)’ tax’
assessment, or fine, in pursance of any statute of i.l1lS stateSncr. 203. Nor shall the action of replevin lie for all)’ P?"
»f son who has not a legal right to the immediate possessionf
of the goods and chattels sought to be taken, at the W10 O
issuing the writ."

Sncr. 204. Before a writ of replevin shall issue, the plaintifff
therein, his agent or attorney, shall make an affidavit before
some officer authorized to -administer oaths, that the defendant
has wrongfully taken and does unlawfully detain, or does unlawfully detain, (as the case may be,) from the deponent, his
personal goods and chattels, (naming and describing them as
particularly as may be, and also the value of each and every article,) which he seeks to replevy.*‘

S1-:c'r. 205. When such affidavit is made and filed with the
justice of the peace, he shall issue forthwith a writ of replevin to any constable of his township, commanding him, if the
plaintifff will satisfy and make him safe by good and safe
pledges, that he seize and take into his custody, wherever they

‘may be found in his county, (the goods and chattels mentioned

and described in the affidavit,) and deliver them to the said
plaintifff, and summon (the defendant) and any other person in
whose possession the said goods and chattels may be found, if
required so to do by the plaintifff, to appear at a time and place
to be named in said writ, to answer the said plaintifff‘ of and
concerning the wrongful taking and unlawful detention, or the
unlawful detention (as the case may be) of the said goods and
chattels.

Snzcr. 206. Such writ shall be served by the constable
taking into his custody said goods and chattels, or such of them
as can be found, and by reading such writ to the defendant, and
giving him a copy thereof if required, or by leaving a copy
thereof at his usual place of residence, if he shall be absent, as
in cases of summons in actions of debt. .

Sncr. 207. If the goods and chattels sought to be replevied
be found in the possession of any person in the county, other
than the defendant mentioned in the writ, such other person
being summoned, may be made a co-defendant in all subsequent
proceedings in the action; but such defendants may sever in
their pleadings thereto.

Sncr. 208. If the plaintifff in such writ of replevin, his
agent or attorney, make, execute, and deliver to said consta‘b e, within twenty-four hours after he shall have taken the oods
and chattels mentioned in said writ of replevin, his penal Ehond,
payable to the defendant, in -double the amount of the value of
the goods and chattels so taken, with sufficient surety, to be approved of by said constable, conditioned as follows:

1. That the plaintifff will well and truly, widiout delay, prosecute such Writ to effect;

2. That he will return such goods and chattels as may be
taken by the constable to the defendant, or such person as he
may have taken them from, in as good condition as he receives them, if, on the final hearing of the cause, return shall be
awarded; 3. That he will also pay such damages as may be awarded
to the defendant, or such person as he may have taken the property from, if he succeed in defending such action;

Said constable shall deliver the goods and chattels taken by
him by virtue of said writ, to the plaintifff therein, his agent or

attorney.

Sacr. 209. If the plaintifff in replevin, his agent or attorney,
do not, within the time in the last above section limited, deliver
to such constable such bond as is in said section provided, such
constable shall, after the expiration of that time, forthwith restore such goods and chattels to the person from whom they
have been taken by him, taking a receipt therefore.

Smcr. 210. The constable shall summon the defendant, and,
if required so to do by the plaintifff, the person from whom he
may have taken such goods and chattels, to appear and answer,
according to the command of said writ of replevin, and make
return of the same, with the time and manner of service, to the
justice who issued the same, together with the bond which he
shall have taken. ,

SECT. 211. The justice shall then proceed to a final hearing

and judgment in the cause, as in other cases. _ _

Sacr. 212. If the plaintifff succeed in his action, the JUSUC9
or jury trying the same shall give the plaintifff such damages as
may be deemed just and reasonable, for the wrongful taking and
detaining. or the wrongful detention only, as the cas
of the property replevied. ,

Sr:c'r. 213. If the plaintifff fail in any of the conditions of his
bond to the defendant, or if the defendant succeed in his defense

to such action, the defendant may maintain a suit ‘thereon, after
a forfeiture has been incurred. .
;u- Smcr. 214. Suits on such bonds, iven in actions of repleviii
before a justice of the peace, shall e governed by the Prov"
sions of law regulating such suits in a circuit court, _ .
the same are applicable, and not repugnant to the pro
this chapter."‘
need Sncr. 215. If the goods and chattels specified in any _
 replevin cannot be found or replevied, or have not been d0 We‘
1_i- red to the plaintifff, bv reason of his failing to give bond as
im- abgve required, the defendant shall nevertheless be summ0}1‘:d
by _virtue of such writ, to appear and answer to the plaintiffl 8
action for the recovery of the value of such pr0p8TlY°

writ of

Sncr. 216. In the cases specified in the last preceding section, such cause shall be heard and determined before such justice as other actions, and the

plaintifff, if he recover, shall be

entitled to judgment and execution for the value of such property, or of his interest therein and costs of suit.

ARTICLE

XII.

Of executions and sales thereon ; of delivery bonds, and of process
against the body of the execution debtor.

SECTION

EXECUTION; LIEN; RETURN; STAY OF EXECUTION; NOTICE OF SALE; APPRAISEMENT ;

DELIVERY BONDS.

217. When party appears, execution to

issue after four days.

218. Otherwise not until after ten days.

219. On confessed judgments execution

may go forthwith.

220. Execution, to whom directed, and

its contents.

221. Shall be alien from delivery on personal property.

222. Such lien to be divested by a prior

levy on a subsequent execution.

223. Execution may he had forthwith on

oath made. .

224. Executions returnable in one hundred
and twenty days; only three to be
issued in a year. ‘

But one offer to sell on each unless
at creditors costs.

On appeal taken. execution to be recalled.

Stay of execution, when and how
obtained.

Justice to note on execution who is
principal and who surety ; property
of principal to be first executed.

No stay of execution if surety oh‘ ject, without indemnification.

Notice of a sale on execution.

Time and place of sale.

Property must sell for two thirds.

Appraisers, how chosen, and their
duty.

Same.

235. Same.

236. May be fined for not serving.

237. Appraisers‘ oath.

225.

226.

227.

228.

229.

230.
231.

232.
233.

234.

Samoa

238. Appraisement to be returned and
filed with execution.

239. Appraisers’ fees.

240. Delivery bond.

241. Constable liable for inadequacy of
security.

242. Proceedings on failure to deliver property.

243. Creditor may proceed on his judgment or on his bond.

244. After failure to deliver, constable
may levy on same or other property.

245. N 0 second delivery bond.

246. Recovery on delivery bond to be for
what.

247. Property not being sold for two thirds

a special endorsement to be retumed

with execution;

And the property restored to defendant on his giving bond.

Such bond, to whom payable and to
whom to be returned.

Lien to continue on the property.

When there shall be a new appraisement or other property seized.

. Condition of bond, when considered
broken.

Suit thereon — no stay or appraisement except for surety.

Debtor may sell the property levied
on; proceeds to be applied to execution.

248.
2-19.

250.
251.

253.

254.

REMEDY OF BAIL, ETC.

Bail may have execution issued vs.
principal, and how.
256. Same.
257. On giving new surety and paying
costs, defendantmay stay execution.

255.

ECTION SECTION

358. Bail paying debt, judgment to stand 271. Condition of such recognizance of
for his use. bail.

359. He may have and file a transcript. 272. Constable may take same.

260. Constable is to appraise and sell pro- 273. Sci. fa. vs. bail; his liability limited.

ert as soon as ossible.
P y P SATISFACTION or EXECUTION, iz'rc.; N0 STAY

earns an SATISFACIENDUM. “ IN csnnm cases.
261. No ca. sa. except, &c. 274. Constable to pay over monies with262. When atiidavit is made; contents out delay.

thereof. 275. Execution satisfied to be forthwith
263. Affidavit need not specify particu- returned with the money.

lars; but same must be found by 276. Overplus of sales to be returned to

court or jury. debtor.
264. On such afhdavit summons to issue. 277. Proceedings vs. constable for failing
265. Returnable in ten days. p to return execution, making a false
266. Of the trial thereon. return, or failing to pay.

267. Issue made and trial by justice or 278. What may be recovered from constable and his suretie8jury.

268. Ca. sa. to issue if debtor will not 279. On certain judgments no stay 01"-‘P’
surrender property on judgment praisement.
against him. 280. Applicable to principals only.

269. Capias to issue on aiiidavit that 281. The two preceding sections. W15”
debtor is about to leave the state. in force.

270. Debtor may give bail, and such bail
may surrender.

Execution; lien; return; stay of execution; notice of 8016;
appraisement ; delivery bond.

Sncr. 217. Upon any judgment being rendered by a justice
of the peace, he shall issue execution, if the party against whom
the judgment is rendered, his agent, or attorney, appeared at the
trial, after the expiration of four days from the entry of such
judgment, unless otherwise hereinafter directed. .

SECT. 218. If a judgment be entered against a party on his
default for not appearing and pleading, execution shall be issued
after the expiration of ten days from the entry of such judgment, unless otherwise hereinafter directed. _
Sscr. 219. In cases of judgments entered on confessions

' execution shall issue forthwith, unless otherwise agreed “P0”

in the terms of confession.
SECT. 220. The execution shall be directed to any Oollstable

within the same county, and after reciting the rendition of the
judgment and the date thereof, and the amount of costs taxed
thereon, shall command him to make the debt or damages, 111'
terest, and costs and accruing costs, of the goods and chattels
of the person against whom it shall be issued, (excepting suclia§
are by lawexempted from execution,) by levy and S .

and to bring the money at a certain time and places them“ to
be mentioned, before such justice, to be rendered to the Party

who recovered the same.

Sscr. 221. Executions issued by a justice shall operate as a
lien on the personal property of the judgment debtor named in
the execution, in the county where it shall be issued, from the
time it shall be delivered to a constable for service, which time
such constable shall endorse thereon.*‘

Snow. 22?. Such lien, however, shall be divested in favor
of any other execution in the hands of any other constable or
officer, without regard to the time of delivery, if such other
constable or officer, by virtue of such other execution, shall
have made the first levy on such goods and chattels, and proceeded with due diligence in perfecting execution thereof.*

Sncr. 223. If the party obtaining a judgment shall make it
appear by his own oath, or by other competent proof, to the
satisfaction of the justice, that he will be in danger of losing the
debt or damages recovered by him unless execution issue sooner
than is prescribed by the two first sections of this article, such
justice shall issue such execution immediately, unless the same
be stayed as hereinafter provided.

S1-zcr. 224. All executions issuing from a justice of the peace
on judgments, shall be made returnable at the expiration of one
hundred and twenty days, and not sooner, so that not more
than three executions shall be issued by a justice on one judgment in a period of twelve months.

Sncr. 225. There shall not be more than one offer to sell
under any one and the same execution, unless the execution
creditor, his agent or attorney, shall direct such subsequent offer
at his own costs.

Sncr. 226. Whenever an appeal shall have been duly taken
upon any judgment, upon which an execution has issued, the
justice shall recal such execution forthwith.

Srccr. 227. The party against whom a judgment is rendered
before a justice of the peace, except where a stay of execution
is prohibited by law, shall have a stay of execution by entering
recognizance of replevin bail for such stay on the docket of the
justice, in the same manner as in cases of recognizance of replevin bail entered with the clerk of the circuit court; and such
reco izanqe of replevin bail shall have the force and effect of
a ju gment duly confessed, as against the goods and chattels,
and body of such replevin bail; and at the expiration of such
stay, execution on the judgment thus stayed shall issue jointly
against the principal and replevin bail, as in the case of replevied judgments in the circuit court; and if at the time of entering
such replevin bail, an execution shall have been issued, the same
shall be returned, without further service or execution thereof,
by the officer in whose hands the same may be, with the reason
for such return endorsed thereon by such officer.T Smcr. 228. When an execution shall~be issued by a justice
of the peace, on any judgment against a’ judgment debtor, and

his surety or replevin bail, the justice issuing the same shall
make an endorsement thereon, designating which of the defendants is the principal and which the surety or replevin bail; and
the constable executing such writ, shall first sell so much of the
goods and chattels of the principal defendant named in such
execution as he may be able to find, before he shall sell any of
the goods and ehattels‘of such surety or replevin bail, unless he
shall be otherwise directed by such surety or replevin bail.
Seer. 229. When judgment shall be entered against several
persons u on an instrument in writing, any of the signers of

t which shal have executed the same as surety for the others, or
' any of them, and that fact being proved to the justice rendering

the judgment, no stay of execution shall be had thereon, if such
surety object thereto, unless the principal defendant shall indemnify the said surety to the satisfaction of’ said justice.
Snzcr. 230. All property to be sold on execution by a constable, shall be by him advertised for sale at public vendue, at
three of the most public places in the township where the same

may be found and seized, at least ten days prior to the day of

sale.

SECT. 231. Such sale shall be held between the hours of ten
o’clock in the forenoon, and five o’clock in the afternoon of such
day, at the dwelling house of r such debtor, or on the premises
where found and seized, or at oneof the most public places In
the township where found and seized, and shall be as publicly
made as the case will permit. ‘

SECT. 232. No property of any description shall be sold on
execution to be issued by a justice of the peace for less than
two-thirds of its appraised value at thetime of such sale, after
deducting all encumbrances thereon.

SECT. 233. For the purpose of such appraisement the.defendant shall choose one disinterested householder of the neigh' borhood where such levy was made, and the plaintifff, his agent
or attorney, shall choose another, or in case of the absence of

such plaintifff, or of his failure so to choose, the constable shall
choose for him; and such appraisers shall appraise the l'0PeTlY
thus levied, and in case of their disagreement, they shal choose
a like disinterested householder, with whose assistance they Shall
proceed to complete such valuation.

SECT. 234. In case such defendant shall fail to choose an
appraiser within three days after notice of suchtlevy, such coastable shall choose an appraiser for him, who shall proceed I11
all respects as if he had been chosen by such defendant.

Seer. 235. In case any of said appraisers shall fail to complete such valuation, such plaintifff, his agent or attorney, 01'
constable in their absence, or the defendant, or the appmlsers’
if two of them remain who were first chosen, as the case mall
be, shall choose an appraiser in the place of th
chosen by him or them, and so refusing to act; or if suC_l\ 9”’
cution defendant shall fail to choose such appraiser w1th1U”.V°
days after notice of such failure of the appraiser chosen bl’ h""

to act, such constable shall choose an ap raiser for him, who
shall proceed in all respects as if he had een chosen by said
defendant.

Seer. 236. Every householder chosen as an appraiser as
aforesaid, who shall refuse to act as such, except in case of
sickness of himself or family, or unavoidable accident preventing him, upon complaint and conviction thereof before a justice
of the peace, shall be fined fifty cents.

Sac-r.-237. Such valuation shall be sworn to by the appraisers, and the constable makin the levy shall have authority
to administer the oath, which shal be annexed to a schedule of
the property appraised, and shall be in substance as follows:
“We the undersi ned do solemnly swear ( or affirm) that the
gods and chattes mentioned above are, to the best of our

owledge, of the value annexed and set down thereto by us,
the same being a fair price and just valuation thereof at this
time.”

Siwr. 238. Such appraisement, when so made and executed,
shall be delivered to the constable making such levy, to be by
him returned and filed with the execution under which such
levy was made.

SECT. 239. Such appraisers shall severally be entitled to receive twenty-live cents per day for their services.

Snzcr. 240. It shall be lawful for any constable, having
levied upon any goods or chattels by virtue of an execution in
his hands, to take a bond with sufficient surety from the judgment debtor, if tendered, for the delivery of such property after
the appraisement thereof, at such time and place as may be appointed for the sale thereof, which shall be mentioned in such
bond, in as good condition as the same may be in at the date
of the bond; such bond to be made payable to the judgment
creditor, and in double the amount of such valuation.

Seer. 241. The constable taking the bond shall be held responsible for the sufficiency of the bond and the sureties, at the
time of taking it. _

Seer. 242. Whenever there shall be a failure of delivery,
agreeably to the condition of such bond, the constable shall return the bond, with the execution, to the justice, mentioning in
his return the facts of the case, after which time, the bond shall
be at the disposal of the obligee therein. _

Seer. 243. The obligee in a delivery bond may have his remedy on the original jud ment by execution or otherwise, in
the same manner as if sue bond had not been taken, and may
afterwards resort to such bond, if necessary, or he may prosecute such bond in the first instance.

Seer. 244. Whenever hereafter any execution defendant
shall execute to any constable a delivery bond for any personal
property, upon which such constable may have levied by virtue
of an execution in his hands, and shall fail or refuse to deliver
such property at the time and place specified in said bond, according to the condition thereof, such constable shall have full

power and authority again to levy upon the same or any other
property. _

SECT. 245. Upon so levying again, he shall take such property’
into his actual possession, and retain the same_until the day of
sale, and shall not receive from such execution defendant 8.
second delivery bond. _

Si«:c'r. 246. Such delivery bond shall be valid in law, andan
action may be maintained thereon whenever the conditions
thereof may have been violated; and on recovery being had
thereon, the amount due on the execution shall be assessed in
favor of the plaintifff, if the property so taken be of sufficient
value to satisfy the same, and if not, then the value of the property so taken; and in all such cases ten per centum damages
shall be assessed on the amount so recovered. '

Sncr. 247. Whenever any constable shall expose any goods
or chattels to sale on any execution in his hands, and the same

3 cannot be sold for two thirds of the appraised value thereof as

_ aforesaid, it shall be the duty of such constable to return such
execution to the justice who issued it, with a special endorsement to that effect. ~

Sacr. 248. The constable shall deliver such unsold goods

" and chattels to the person against whom execution had issued
1 as aforesaid, upon his giving bond with sufiicient surety, resident in the county, and to the satisfaction of such constable,
r. conditioned that such execution debtor will deliver at the time
and place of the next sale, to the constable having in his hands
an execution upon the same judgment, the goods and chattels
so restored to him, or other goods and chattels of equal value»
to be selected by such constable; such value to be determined
by an appraisement as herein before directed. ‘‘
. SECT. 249. Such bond shall be made payable to the execu:1 d tion_ plaintiff, and shall be returned by the constable _to whom it
0 is given with the execution, to the justice who issued the sameSncr. $250. The return, when so made, shall be and remain
lien upon all such goods and chattels as may remain unsold»
whether a bond be given as aforesaid or not.
SECT. 251. Whenever a new execution shall be issued after
7 such return, either party may have a re-valuation of such good-9
M, and chattels so levied upon, by paying the costs thereof; and
tn. other goods and chattels may be levied upon by virtueof Such
new execution, as often as issued, subject to be apprai ed and
sold in the manner and for the price above prescribed. _
W Sncr. 252. If the debtor in execution shall not at the time
"d and place mentioned in the condition of such last mentioned de‘
livery bond, deliver to the proper constable the goods and chattels to him restored as aforesaid, or other goods and chattels of

equal value, as above ‘provided, the condition of said bond Shall
be considered as broken.

1: Sncr. 253. The obligee in such bond may maintain an “'1'
‘P’ tion thereon, and recover damages for the breach of the condihe tions thereof, in the same manner and to the same extent 35

Lin
3.

herein before provided in the case of delivery bonds; and there
shall be no stay of execution or appraisement of property on a
judgment on any delivery bond specified in this article, except
as to the surety in any such delivery bond.

SECT. 254. Any execution debtor may sell any property of
his that has been levied upon by virtue of an execution, and for
which a delivery bond has been given, at private sale, for not
less than two thirds of its value as appraised by said appraisers,
without incurring a forfeiture of such delivery bond, if he shall
bona tide apply the proceeds of such sale, or as much thereof

as may be necessary, to the satisfaction of such judgment and
execution.

Remedy of bail, qr.

SECT. 255. Where any bail for the stay of execution under
this article, shall he unwilling to continue as such bail for the full
term of such undertaking, such bail may go before the justice
on whose docket he stands as bail, or the justice having such
docket in his possession and the right to issue execution on
such judgment, and make and file his affidavit that he is apprehensive of being made liable to pay such judgment, if execution
be further delayed. ‘

Smcr. 256. Upon the making and filing of such atiidavit, and
at the request of such afliant, such justice shall issue execution
gorthwith against the goods and chattels of the judgment

ebtor.

Snow. 257. But if the judgment debtor against Whom such
execution may have issued, will, within ten days after the issuing
thereof, give other additional bail for the unexpired time for
which a stay of execution may be had, and will pay or secure
the costs of such execution, the same shall be recalled, and no
further proceedings shall be had on such execution.

Sscr. 258. In the case of payment of the judgment by the
bail for the stay of execution, the original judgment against
the principal shall remain’ valid and in force for the use of such
bail, who may at any time sue ‘out execution thereon for his own
use, after such payment by him of such judgment, or any part
thereof; which execution shall be so endorsed by the justice,
together with the amount which such bail has paid, and which
he shall be entitled to recover.

Sxcr. 259. Such bail shall also be entitled to a certified
transcript of such original judgment for his own use, which shall i
have the same force and effect as transcripts in other cases.

Sscr. 260. Whenever an execution, issued on any judgment »
rendered by a justice of the peace, shall be delivered to a con- j
stable to be executed, it shall be the duty of such constable to }
cause the goods and chattels which he may have levied on by
virtue thereof, to be appraised as in this article directed, and

offered for sale with as little delay as possible, after receiving
such execution."

Capias ad satisfaciendum.

Sncr. 261. No execution shall be issued by any justice of
the peace against the body of any execution debtor, except as
hereinafter provided. .

SEOT. 2652. The creditor wishing such execution, his agent

or attorney, shall make and file with the justice whose duty it
may be to issue an execution in the cause, an affidavit charging

the debtor with fraudulently concealing, removing,hconveying,d or
transferring his property subject to execution, wit intent to efraud or deilay such creditor; or that he has monies, i'igh_ts, credits, or effects, with which the judgment of suchi c1:redlitof,_<;!r
some part thereof, mioht be paid, and which he frau ii ent y.wit holds or conceals, witfh a view to delay or defraud his creditor.

V SECT. 263. Such affidavit need not designate specifically any
property, monies, or effects fraudulently removed, trangferregl,
or concealed, conveyed or withheld by such debtor; ut t e

, justice or jury, in determining the matters_in issue between the
parties, on a scire facias hereinafter authorized,‘ if the finding be
fear the creditor, shall designate in such_ findinlg ltlfile IIIOILGYS9
e ects property debts or things in action w ic av_e een
thus riemoved, cioncealed, transferred, conveyed, or withheld,

and also the value thereof. _ _
SECT. 264. Upon the filing of such affidavit, it shall be the

duty of such justice to issue a summons requiring such debtor

to appear and show cause before such justice why execution

against his body should not issue on such judgment.
Sscr. 265. Every such summons shall be made returnable

in ten days from the date thereof, and shall be served and returned in the same manner as 18 provided in this chapter

service of a summons in other cases.

Sncr. 266. If such debtor shall fail to appear on the return
day of such summons, and show cause, according to the requirements thereof, the justice may proceed to_ enter his d9‘
fault therein, and hear and determine the same in his absence,

or a jury may be einpannelled for that purpose at the request

of the creditor.

Sncr. 5267. If such debtor appear and plead to such afiidavlt
a1 any sufficient matter in bar to the issuing of such execution»
° and issue be taken to the country thereon, it shall be tried ii)’
the justice by agreement of parties, or a jury _shall be emn=1§1'
nelled, at the request of either party, to try the same, 351”
other cases. . d

Sscr. ‘268. If any such hearing or trial shall be determlntils

against such debtor, and he will not forthwith, or as soon
.~ A ...n elm

l
l'
in‘

may be, surrender, for the benefit of such creditor, the monies,
effects, property, debts, or things in action, which may be found
by such justice or jury to have been removed, concealed, transferred, conveyed, or withheld, or pay the value thereof, an execution shall issue against the body of such debtor, who shall by
virtue thereof be arrested and committed to the prison of the
pounty, there to be confined until duly discharged according to
aw. *

Snow. 5269. If it be made to appear in such affidavit, or any
subsequent affidavit, that, the execution plaintifff has reason to
believe, and does believe, that such execution debtor will leave
the state before trial and determination of the matters alleged
in such affidavit, a capias ad respondendum shall forthwith issue
against such execution debtor, and be served and executed as
in a personal action.

SECT. 270. Such execution debtor, on being arrested on such
capias ad respondendum, may be released from arrest on giving
special bail, and may be surrendered by such special bail in discharge of his recognizance, in,like manner as is provided for in
other cases of s ecial bail in this chapter.

SE01‘. 271. he condition of the recognizance of such special bail shall be, that such execution debtor will surrender his
body in execution, if a capias ad satisfaeiendum shall be awarded
against him.

SECT. 272. The constable making such arrest may take such
recognizance of bail, either before or after such.debtor is committed to prison, and shall make due return of his proceedings.

SECT. 273. A scire facias may issue on such recognizance of
special bail, and judgment may be rendered thereon, in like manner as in other cases of recognizance of special bail ; but the bail
shall only be liable for the amount of money, effects, property,
debts, and things in action fraudulently withheld, concealed,
conveyed, removed or transferred by such execution debtor, as
found by the court or jury trying the issue on the proceedings

on such affidavit.
Satz'.gfaction of execution, Qc. : no stay in certain cases.

SE01‘. 274. In all cases where a constable shall have received
money in payment, or in part payment, either voluntarily made
by any defendant or execution debtor, or as ‘the proceeds of ‘the
sale of property by virtue of an execution in his hands against
the goods and chattels of such debtor, it shall be the d_uty_of
such constable to pay over said money to the proper justice
without delay.

Sizer. 275. In case such execution shall be fully paid and
satisfied, either by sale or otherwise, it shall be the duty of such
constable to return it, with the money made, forthwith.

SECT. 276. When any property levied upon by virtue of an
execution, shall sell for more than will satisfy the amount of the
judgment, interest and costs, including the constable’s lawful
costs thereon, it shall be the duty of such constable to render
the overplus to such execution debtor or debtors.

Sncr. 277. For a failure to serve or return an execution, or
to pay over any money collected by him, as required by law,
or for making a false return, the constable shall be liable to the
injured party, and may be proceeded against either by scire

facias before a justice of the peace, or he and his sureties may .

be sued on their bond. _
Snow. 27 8. In either case, the aggrieved party shall be enti~ tled to recover of the constable, in one instance, and of him
and his sureties in the other, the full amount collected or received and withheld, or which he might and should have collected and paid over, with interest, and ten per centum thereon,
and costs; but no interest or per centum shall be allowed on
costs.‘ '

SECT. 279. The provisions of this article, as to a stay of
execution and appraisement of property levied on by ‘BXBCUIIOII,
shall not extend to judgments and executions against state,
county, or township officers, or executors, administrators, or
guardians, for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office,
nor against attorneys for refusing to pay over monies by them
collected as such, nor against any bank, savings institution, 01'
insurance company, nor to judgments on ofncial or forfeited
delivery bonds. 4

p- Snow. 3280. The provisions and restrictions of the.1astp1j6y ceding section shall apply to the principals in the said oliicl
' bonds only, and not to their sureties ; and in all cases 0f‘]l1dg'
ments or decrees in any court, the principals specified lathe
last preceding section shall not be entitled to an appraisement
of their property, nor to a stay of execution; but their sureties
shall always have a right to such appraisement and stay of execution, as in any other case. ,
ng SECT- 281. The last two preceding sections shall be in force
~81‘ from and after their publication in the Indiana J ournal and State

Sentinel.

ARTICLE XIII.

Of constables and their duties.

Sscrxox Sscrtox
282. Elected for one year. 298. Shall duly return all process.
283. Oath. 299. To note time of receiving an:
284. Bond, and by whom approved. serving process.
285. When county auditor shall approve 300. “ Not found, ” when to be returned
bond and administer oath. 301. May arrest fugitives any where ll
286. Approval to be endorsed on bond— the state.
bond and certificate of oath filed 302. But shall make proof of his right to
with clerk of the circuit court and ' arrest before some justice of the
registered. peace.
287. Vacancies, how filled. 303. Justice shall thereupon endorse the
288. Oath and bond in case of vacanies. warrant or issue one.
289. Special constables, when appointed 304. Same shall authorize conveyance o.
and their oath. l fugitive to the proper county.
290. The authority, duties, and fees of 305. Constable’s duty as conservator o1
such constable. the peace,
291. Justice liable for such constables. 306. Constable’s power of serving pro292. Attendance and duties of constable cess to extend generally over the
in justice’s court.—Fine for omis- county—same authority as sheriff,
sion. etc., in executing mesne and final
293. Fine, how assessed. process — process to have same
294. Powers of constable in civil and force as if issued by circuit court.
criminal cases. I 307. Liability of bidders at constables‘
295. General duties of constable. salts.
296 May require assistance. 308. Damages for whose use in such case.
297. When he may execute process on 309. Copy of process shall be delivered
Sunday. to jail keeper with prisoner.

Sscr. 282. Constables shall be elected for the term of one
year, and shall continue in office until their successors shall be
elected and qualified; but they shall not be compelled to
serve longer than three months after the expiration of one
year.*

Sncr. 283. Every constable, before he enters upon the
duties of his oliice, shall take an oath or affirmation before some
competent authority, to support the constitution of the United
States and of this state, and faithfully to discharge his duties
as such constable during his continuance in office; according to
the best of his skill and ability.

Sncr. 284. Every constable before taking the oath of office
shall execute a bond, with at least two freeholders of the proper
county as his sureties, to the acceptance of the board of
county commissioners, payable to the state of Indiana, in a
penal sum of not less than three hundred nor more than two
thousand dollars, to be determined by the board of county commissioners, conditioned for the safe keeping and paying over to
thcproper person or authority, of all monies which may be
collected or received by him, or which may otherwise come
into his hands by virtue of his office; and for the due, honest,
and faithful discharge and performance of all and singular his
duties as such constable, during his continuance in oliice, in all
things agreeably to law.

Sncr. 285. If any such bond be executed in vacation of
such board, it shall be approved by the clerk of such board;
and such clerk is hereby authorized to administer to such constable the official oath in all cases.

Sncr. 286. When such bond shall have been so approved,_it
shall be the duty of the clerk of the board of county commissioners, to endorse his approval on such bond; and the constable shall forthwith cause the same, together with the certificate
of the officer who administered his oliicial oath, to be filed In

- the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the proper county,
who shall register the same in a book to be kept for that put‘ose.

v P Snow. 287. Whenever a vacancy shall happen in the oihce
of constable in any township, by death, removal, resignations
disqualification, or by any cause, the board of county commissioners of the proper county shall, at their next session after
such vacancy, appoint a suitable person to fill such vacancy
until the next annual election for constabies, and until asuccessor be appointed and qualified. .

d. Siizcr. 288. The constable so appointed shall take a like oath
and give a like bond as is required in other cases of constablesa- Snow. 289. A justice of the peace may appoint a con_Sti}bl°

EL or constables for a special purpose, either in a civil or criminal

case, whenever such appointment may become necessary qn
account of the sickness or absence of a regular constable, 01‘ In
any other emergency rendering such special appointment absoI. lutely necessary; and he shall require the constable 80 3P‘

pointed to take the oaths required in other cases. * _
Sncr. 290. The person so appointed by the justices after

3:, taking such oath, shall have the same authority, and be sub]e0i

to the same penalties, and entitled to the same fees, as Oih“

constables.

e Sncr. 291. Such justice shall stand as surety,

:3‘ in that character civilly liable, he and his sureties, for an)’ “°g'

Led, lect of duty, or any illegal proceedings on the part of such C011‘

stable, so by him appointed.

Smcr. 292. Each and every constable shall attend before
the proper justice on the return day of process, keep order in
the justices’ court, and execute all lawful commands of the justice, under pain of a fine, not exceeding threepdollars for each
neglect and refusal, to be assessed by such justice, or some
other justice of the proper county, against such constable.

Saar. 293. No such fine shall be assessed until the constable
shall have been informed or notified of the complaint or charge,
and shall have an opportunity to be heard in his defense, which
defense may be made on his own oath, or the testimony of some
disinterested person, at the discretion of the justice.

Sncr. 294. All constables shall be ministerial officers in
justice’s courts, in their respective townships, in civil cases, and
in their respective counties, in criminal cases; and civil process
may be executed by them throughout the county, under the
provisions and restrictions of law. "

SECT. 295. It shall be the duty of every constable to serve
and execute all warrants, writs, precepts, executions, and other
process to him directed and delivered, and in all respects whatever, to do and perform all things pertaining to the office of
constable.’r ‘

Snow. 296. In dischargin their duty, in any respect what- I
ever, constables may call to their aid the power of their county, '
or such assistance as may be necessary.

Ssc'r.- 297. In all cases where process is authorized to be ‘
issued on Sunday, it shall be lawful for constables to whom such f
process may be directed, to serve the same on Sunday.

Sncr. 298., It shall be the duty of every constable to make 5
due return of all process to him directed and delivered, at the ‘
proper office, and on the proper return day thereof; or in case
the judgment be appealed, to forthwith return such execution, .
noting the fact in his return.

SECT. 299. It shall be the duty of every constable, on thef
receipt of any writ, precept, or other process, subpaenas ex- cj
cepted, to note thereon the time of receiving the same; he shall 9
also note on every writ, precept, subpoena, or other process, the °
time and manner of serving or executing it.

Seer. 300. No constable shall make a return on any process “
of “not found,” as to any defendant, unless he shall have been 
once, at least, to the usual place of residence of such defendant,
if such defendant have any in the county.

Snow. 30]. In cases of the absconding or flight of offenders, M
or persons charged in criminal or state cases, a constable may 5}
pursue and take or recapture the escaping, absconding, or fiee- an
mg person, any wherein the state, and convey him back to the
proper county, to be dealt with according to law.

Sscr. 302. But when a constable shall pursue a fugitive
from justice or legal custody, from one county to another, he
shall go before some justice of such county in which such fugitive may be, either before or after he shall have made an arrest
of such fugitive, and by his own oath, or otherwise, satisfy subh
justice, that the warrant or other process by virtue of which he
has made such arrest, or seeks to do so, of such fugitive, was
legally issued in the county from which such fugitive has lied,
or that such fugitive has escaped from legal custody in the last
mentioned county, and that he is in pursuit of such fugitive.

Srccr. 303. Upon being so satisfied, such justice, if a war_ rant or other process be produced to him, shall endorse his name

thereon as such justice, or, in case of other escape from custody
and pursuit, shall issue his warrant to such constable.‘

Sr-:c'r. 304. Such warrant or endorsement shall be sufficient
$3 authority for such constable to retake or retain such fugitive in
f his custody, and convey him to the county from which he may

have escaped or tied.

SECT. 305. It shall be the duty of every constable to apprehend, on view or warrant, and bring to justice, all felons and.

1'’ disturbers of the peace, and violators of the criminal laws of
this state; to suppress all riots, affrays, andunlawful assemblies

which may come to his knowledge; and generally to keep the

1? restricted by law, the authority of a constable shall extend
er throughout the whole county in which he may be appointed;
and in executing and serving mesne or final process issued by 11
justice of the peace, a constable shall have and exercise the
‘pm, same authority and powers over goods and chattels and the per1:. sons of parties, as is granted by law to a sheriff or coroner
sto under like process issuing from courts of record; and such process issuing from a justice or justices of the peace, shall have
the same force and effect as if issued from a court of record,

Seer. 307. Any person who shall purchase or bid 03' Pm‘
:09‘ perty at d. constable’s sale, and shall fail or refuse to pay there‘
' for agreeably to the terms of sale, shall be liable to damages to
the amount of such purchase with ten per cent. damages th_ert_!0I1a
to be recovered by suit in any court of competent jUI‘lS(.llCI|0D1
in the name of the party to whom the money arising from suc

sale would be due and payable; or such constable may proceed

by notice andymotion, or re-expose such property to sale, as

s ecilied in the thirteenth article of the fortieth chapter of
ese Revised Statutes, and recover as therein provided .*

Sszcr. 308. One half of such ten per centum dam es shall

0 to the use of the constable holding such sale, and t e other
_alf to the plaintifff in the execution on which such sale was
made.

Sncr. 309. Whenever it shall be necessary for any constable to commit a person to prison, he shall, together with his
prisoner, deliver a certified copy of the process by virtue of
which such commitment is made, to the keeper of the prison;
which shall be a suiiicient authority to such keeper to retain
such prisoner in custody. 3

ARTICLE XIV.Miscellaneous provisions.

SECTION Sscrrox .
310, Justice's bond, - 325. Justice to enter satisfaction of judg311. Payable to the state—may be sued ment in proof of payment.
on by any person interested, etc. 326. May stay execution until such mo312. To be filed and registered in clerk’s tion can be heard.
(mice, 327. To deliver books, dockets, papers,
313. Oath of office. ' 810-. 30 8Il0Ce8801'- ‘
314. Certificate of same, where filed. 328. No successor. then to nearest jus315. Penalty for acting before giving tice.
bond, etc. 3 329. When to be absent more than thirty
316. When he may issue process on , days, shall deposite dockets, etc.
Sunday. ’ 330. Persons having such dockets to
317. When mandamus may issue against deliverthem to those entitled.
justice. ' 331. Justice receiving them shall give re318. Justice and constable may not pur- ceipt. .
' chase judgment. 332. Penalty for neglect of live preceding
319. Penalty therefore. - sections.

320. Justice to receive all monies col- 333. What papers are to be so deposited.
lected or offered in payment of 334. When justice may transfer judgjudgments. ments from such docket to his
321. Shall pay over same without delay. own and proceedings thereon.
322. Proceedings for failure to pay. 335. Successor may proceed in all for323. Judgment for amount due with ten mer judgments.
A per cent.—no stay. 336. Bail removing, creditor may have a
324. Complaint in such case, when it transcript.

may be made to justice of adjoin- 337. Proceedings as in other transcriptsiug township. 338. Penalty for refusing a transcript.

3EC'1'ION SECTION
339. Transcript to be entered on docket, 343. Special bail may surrender at any

and sci. fa. thereon. time before judgment against him340. After trial, or two returns of ‘’not self.
not found, ” execution awarded. 344. Must notify: plaintid of surrender.
341. Stay to be only from date of origi- 345. Defendant to give new bail, replevy,
nal judgment. pay judgment, or be committed.
342. Sci. fa. or debt may be brought 346. Allowance to constable for keeping
against special bail. A live stock, etc.

Snow. 310. Every person elected to the office of justice of
the peace in any of the counties of this state, shall give to the
clerk of the circuit -court of the proper county,-a bond in such
sum as the clerk may deem sufficient, not less than one thousand
dollars nor more than three thousand dollars, with good freehold security, to be approved by such clerk, conditioned for the

‘faithful discharge of his duties as such justice, and for paying

over on demand, to the person entitled or authorized to receive
the same, all monies that may come into his hands as such

justice of the peace during his continuance in oilice.“‘
Sacr. 311. Such bond shall be made payable to the state of

,Indiana, and shall be for the benefit of any person concerned

or aggrieved; andmay be put in suit from time to time, in
any court of competent jurisdiction, and shall not be void on

the first recovery thereon.T _
SECT. 312. ‘ Such bond_ shall be filed and registered in the

SECT. 313. Every justice of the peace, before he enters on
the duties of his office, shall take an oath _or affirmation before
the clerk of the circuit court of the proper county, or_ some
officer qualified to administer oaths, to sup ort the constitution
of the United States and of the state of ndiana, and that he

will faithfully discharge his duty as such justice of the peace,
according to the best of his judgment, skill, and ability.

Sncr. 314. The officer administering such oath shall make
out a certificate thereof, to be filed in the office of the clerk of
the circuit court of the proper county." Siacr. 315. If any person elected to the office of justice of
the peace in any county in this state, shall exercise any of the
rights and powers of a justice of the peace, before taking such
ofiicial oath or affirmation, and making and filing such bond, on
conviction thereof by presentment or indictment in the circuit
court of the proper county, he shall be fined by the jury trying
the cause in any sum not exceeding two thousand dollars.

Sncr. 316. Justices of the peace are authorized to issue any
process on Sunday that they might issue on any other day, upon
the applicant for such process making and filing with such justice, in addition to the usual affidavit in such case, an affidavit
that the person against whom such process is prayed is about to
abscond from the county, and that such afliant verily believes
that such person will be out of the reach of such process if the
issuing thereof should be delayed to another day. ‘

SECT. 317. If any justice of the peace refuse to enter a
judgment when by law he ought so to do, the circuit court of
the proper county is authorized to issue a mandamus to compel
such justice to enter such judgment.

Sncr. 318. It shall not be lawful for any justice; of the peace
or constable of the same township, to purchase, directly or indirectly, any judgment, or part thereof, on the docket of such
justice, or any docket in his possession.

Sncr. 319. If any justice or constable shall offend against
the provisions of the above section, he shall be fined for each
offense, upon conviction thereof, on presentment or indictment
in the circuit court of the proper county, in any sum not less
than five dollars nor more than one hundred dollars, with costs.

SECT. 320. It is hereby made the duty of justices of the
peace to receive from constables all monies by them collected
on process issued by the justices respectively; also all monies
the collection of which may have been entrusted to them, or‘
which may be offered to them on any judgment, account, or demand on their dockets or in their possession.

Snow. 32]. They shall pay over all monies so collected ori
received by them in their ofiicial capacity, to the person or per- I
sons entitled thereto, or duly authorized to receive the same,‘
Without delay. Sncr. 322. If any justice shall neglect or refuse _to pay over 1
any money by him collected or received in his official capacity, 1
when thereunto requested or demanded at the office or residence .
of such justice, he being present, by the person entitled thereto
or duly authorized to receive the same, it shall be lawful for_such
person to complain to some other justice of the township in
which such delinquent justice resides, whose duty it shall be

forthwith to issue asummons to some constable -of his township,

' commanding him to summon such delinquent justice forthwith
to appear before him, and show cause, if any he have or can,
why judgment should not be rendered against him for the amount
of money so by him collected and not .paid over.

SECT. 323. If such delinquent justice shall not appear, such
summons having been returned “ personally served,” or if he do
not show good cause, the justice who issued such summons shall

‘render judgment against him for the amount of money so by
him collected or received and not paid over, together with ten
per centum damages thereon and costs; and in such case there
shall be no stay of execution.

Siccr. 324. If there be no justice in the township in which
such delinquent justice resides, who is legally competent to act

’ on such complaint, then it may be made to the nearest justice
of an adjoining township in the same county.

SECT. 325. Justices shall bear and determine any application
to enter satisfaction of judgments on their dockets, whenever
the debtor alleges payment or satifaction, the creditor, his agent
or attorney, first having reasonable notice thereof; and if sus_tairlied# by competent proof, satisfaction shall be entered according y. i

SE01‘. 326. If in any case, on such motion being made, it be
necessary to suspend ‘or recal any execution before the final
hearing of such application, the justice shall have power so to
do, on the creditor being made safe in his demand, by bond and
p_uil'_ety, to pay the amount due, in the event of such motion
ai in . ~

SEET. 327. Whenever the office of any justice of the peace
shall become vacant, all the dockets, papers, laws, and statutes
pertaining to his office, shall, if a successor be chosen and quailied at the time, be delivered over to such successor. .

Siazcr. 328. But if there be no successor chosen and‘quallfied, then such justice shall deliver said dockets, paper§.13W3o
and statutes to the nearest justice in the township, if any
there be ; and if there be none, then to the nearest in the count)’:
to be kept by him until a successor shall be chosen and qualified:
and then delivered over to such successor on request.

SECT. 329. If any justice shall absent himself from his township, county seat, or incorporated town for more than thirty
days together, he shall deposit the dockets, papers, laws, and
statutes belonging to his officetwith the nearest justice, as PTO’
vided in the three preceding sections, to be kept and acted on
by him in the cases and manner hereafter provided, until such
absent justice shall return, or a successor be chosen and quill!’
tied, and then to be delivered to such justice or successor.

SECT. 330. In case of a vacancy or absence of a justice of
the peace, it shall be the duty of any person having in his custody any such dockets, laws, or papers, to deliver them on demand to the proper justice.

S1-:c'r. 331. A justice so receiving by succession or on deposit,
any such laws, statutes, dockets, or papers, shall, if requested, give
areceipt therefore to the person from whom he receives the same.

Sscr. 332. If any person shall refuse or neglect to comply
with any of the provisions of the last five preceding sections,
he shall, on conviction thereof, by presentment or indictment in
the proper circuit court, be fined in any sum not exceeding five
hundred dollars and costs; he shall also be responsible in damages at the suit of any person aggrieved by any such neglect

or refusal. ,
Sacr. 333. A justice who makes a deposit of his dockets

on account of a temporary absence, need not accompany the
same with any other papers than those which relate to unsettled

business thereon.

Sncr. 334. The justice with whom the docket of another
may be deposited during a vacancy or absence, is hereby authorized, while having such docket legally in his possession, to
transfer to his own docket any judgment on the docket left
with him, that may be due while in the possession of such justice, at the request of the judgment creditor or any other
party interested, and to issue execution thereon, or to give a
transcript thereof, in the same manner as if the judgment and
proceedings had been originally had before him; and he shall
note such transfer, and the date thereof, in the docket from
which such transfer is made. "‘

SECT. 335. The successor of any other justice, on obtaining
his docket and papers, shall be authorized to issue executions on €
his judgments, and give and certify transcriptsof his proceed-.5
ings, and proceed in all cases in like manner as if the same had 1
been originally had or instituted before him. T, .

Sncr. 336. If any bail for the stay of an execution on a1
judgment shall have removed from the county Where he may}
have become such bail, to any other county in this state, and a
return be made on an execution against the principal, of no
goods or chattels sufficient to make the Whole or any part of
the judgment, the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, shall
be entitled to a transcript of such judgment, recognizance, or
entry of bail for the stay of execution, and the judgment and
other proceedings in the case.

Sscr. 337. The judgment creditor may proceed, before a
justice of the peace of the county where such bail may reside,
against him, in the same manner as against the principal defendant in like case of removal from the county. _

Sia:c'r. 338. If any justice shall refuse or neglect to give to
any person entitled thereto, be paying or tendering the lawful
fees therefore, any transcript of *a judgment, he shall, on conviction, by presentment or indictment in the circuit court of the
proper county, be lined in any sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars and costs of prosecution, and shall also be liablemd:images at the suit of the party injured. Sac-r. 339. In all cases where a transcript of a judgment of
a justice in this state shall be made out and certified by the 1115'
tice authorized so to do, and delivered to another justiceaf°’
the purpose of enforcing execution thereof, the justice to whom
such transcript is delivered, shall make an entry thereof in his
docket, and issue a scire facias against the judgment debtor to
appear and show cause why execution should not issue against
him for the amount of the judgment, interest, and costs: 35
stated in the transcript. _

Szcr. 340. If no good cause be shown, or the judgment
debtor do not appear, on the‘ return of such scire facias ‘served:
or on two returns of ‘not found,’ execution shall be awarded
and issued for such sum as shall appear to remain unsatisliedy
with interest and costs, as in other cases. _

SECT. 341. In such case, a stay of execution, if allowable:

3 shall only be from the date of the original jud ment.

SECT. 342. The remedy against special ail entered into

V before a justice of the peace, shall be by scire facias, or action

of debt, on the recognizance of bail. H
Sacr. 343. Special bail, at any time before judgment Sh?‘
have been rendered against him as such, on obtaining a bi“

' piece from the justice before whom it was entered, or his successor in office, and aying all costs of any proceedings 
him as such special ail, may seize and surrender his princip

to such justice, or liis_successor in office. _ j .
Siacr. 344. The special bail shall notify the plalnlllfa ll”

' agent or attorney, if resident in the county of such surrender;
Y

and thereupon such special bail shall be ful exonerated.
SECT. 345. On such surrender being made, and an 68099”;
tur being entered by the justice, he shall require such prmcIP
to give other special bail forthwith; or if a judgment be T911’
dered against him, to replevy the same, with interest and 005“?
if repleviable; and in default thereof, to commit him to ‘he

prison of the county, there to remain until discharged by due
course of law.

Si-zcr. 346. VVhen any live stock shall be taken in execution,
it shall be the duty of the justice who issued the execution, t0
make such allowance to the constable for keepin the same 35
he may think reasonable, not exceeding twenty- V6 99”“ Per
day for a horse, and in the like proportion for other animalsARTICLE XV.

Forms for justices of the peace.

Sscnon Snerrou 347—Contiuued.
347. Proceedings not void for want of 10. Execution of ti. fa.

form, &.c., if substanceiscontained ll. Execution of ca ea.

therein. 12. Writ of domestic attachNo. 1. Summons. ment.
2. Capias. - 13. Affidavit for landlord's war3. Subpoena. rant.
4. Judgment. ‘ 14. Warrant thereon.
5. Judgment of non-suit. 15. Writ of replevin.
6. Judgment by default. 16. Sci. fa. on transcript, or vs.
7. Judgment on trial for defen- special bail, justice, or con. dant. stable.
8. Jury trial and judgment 17. Judgment in sci. fa.
therein. 18. Dedimus.

9. Judgment in replevin for
plaintiff ; for defendant;
do., with award of return.

Seer. 347. The following forms shall be adopted and pursued by justices, as nearly as the nature of the case will permit;
but no writ, process, entry, or judgment shall be deemed invalid
or set aside for want of form, nor for any misnomer of any action, defense, or writ, nor for any technical defect, if it contain
the substance:

N o. 1. Summons.

State of Indiana, —— county, sct:
To any constable of township, greeting:
You are hereby commanded to summon . to appear
before me, J— H—, a justice of the peace of said township, at

my office therein, on the day of , at o’clock, in
the noon, to answer , of a plea of (insert the name
of the action), not exceeding one hundred (or fifty) dollars :—

Hereof make due service and return.
Given under my hand and seal this -—- day of

J— H—, [sEAL.]

Justice of the peace.

 

     
     

, 18:0

No. 2. Capias ad respondendum.

State of Indiana, county, sct.

To any constable of township, greeting:

You are hereby commanded to take , if he may be
found in said county, and forthwith bring him before me, J — H—,
a justice of the peace of said township, at my office therein, to
answer of a plea of (insert the name of the action),

 

   

   

not exceeding one hundred (or fifty) dollars, and notify the
plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, of such arrest: Hereof make

due service and return. ‘
Given under my hand and seal this —— day of —, 18-'-.

J—— H—, [smL.]

Justice of the peace.

No. 3. Subpama.

State of Indiana, -—— county, sct.

To any constable of -—— township, greeting:

You are hereby commanded to summon -—— to appear
before me, J— H—, a justice of the eace of said township, at
my office therein, on the ——- day 0 ——-A-, at ——,o’clock, in
noon of said day, then and there to testifyin a cause
wherein —— ——- is plaintifff and «-—— —.——~ is defendant, on
behalf of the ——-; and this -—— shall not omit under the penalties prescribed by law: Hereof make due service and return.
Given under my hand and seal this ——- day of —, 18J'-"‘ H'—', [SEALO]
Justice of the peace 

 

No.,4. Judgments, 15-0.

vs. In (as the form of action is).

C—- D—, defendant,

(After noting the previous roceedings, with the constablejs
return, and time of trial, say,) 1‘his day come the parties in their
proper persons, $01‘ by agents or attorneys, if the case bB'S01)
and the cause an proceedings, and all things touching the same,
being fully heard and inspected: It is thereforee considered that
the said plaintifff (or defendant) recover of said defendant (of
plaintifff) the sum of -—— for his debt and damages, (or damages,
as the form of action is,) with interest thereon atthe rate of six
per centum per annum from the date of this judgment till Find,
with costs of suit taxed at ——.

A— B——, plaintifff, I 

Judgments in assumpsit, covenant, trespass, or trespass on the
case, or trover, which sound in damages, may be in the above
form, substituting the Word “damages” for the words “debt
and dams es.”

If the p aintilf is to be ‘non-suited for not appearing,’ say:
No. 5.

“Comes the defendant, but the plaintifff being called, comes
not, nor is his suit further prosecuted; it is thereforee considered
that the plaintifff be non-suited, and that the defendant go hence
without day and recover of the plaintifff his costs by him about
his defense herein expended.”

If the defendant does not appear, and the case proceeds, say:
N o. 6.»

“ Comes the plaintifff, but the defendant, though called, comes
not; and it appearing that he has been duly served with process,
and the cause being fully heard and inspected: It is thereforee
considered,” &.c. (as in form No. 4.)

No. 7. General for defendant on trial. .

Commence as in No. 4, and on coming to the judgment say: ,
“It is considered that the plaintifff take nothing by his suit, and ‘
that the defendant 0 hence and recover of the plaintifff his‘
costs,” &:c., (as in 1% . 5.)

No. 8. Jury trial and juiigment.

After stating the appearance of the parties as in No. 4; or of _-f
the plaintifff, the non-appearance of the defendant and service of j
pgocess as in form No. 6, as the case may be, say : “ And a jury '

ing summoned at the request of the plaintifff, -(or defendant, as
the case may be,) who being called, likewise come, to-wit, (here in‘sert their names) goodyand lawful men of said county, who being

duly elected and sworn Well and truly to try the cause submitted
tothem, between the parties aforesaid, and a true verdict to
give according to evidence, return the followingverdict, to-wit,
(here insert the verdict). It is thereforee considered that the
plaintifff (or defendant, as the verdict may be,) recover,” &c.,
as in form No. 4. Or if the case stand on default, and the
jury are sworn to in uire of the damages only, after the word
“sworn,” say, “ we] and truly to inquire of and assess the
plaintifff’s damages in said cause,” &,c.; in which case their
verdict will be, “ We the jury assess the plaintifff’s damages (or
debt and damages, as the case may be,) at -——.”

If a jury try the cause, on an issue between the ‘parties, and V»

the action be in debt, the jury, if they find for the plaintifff, are

to find the principal sum due, and interest thereon, if there be
any interest, and add such interest to the principal; and their
verdict may be substantially as follows: “ We the jury find for
the laintiff the sum of dollars for his debt and damages.”

I the action be in any form except debt, detinue, or replevin,
the verdict of the‘ jury may be substantially as follows: “We
the jury find for the plaintifff, and assess his damages at the sum
of dollars.” If in any such case interest be recoverable,
it is to be included in the sum thus found as damages by the

jury. ~

If a set-off be established in favor of the defendant, and a
balance be found by the jury to be due to him, the.verdict may be
substantially as follows: “ We the jury find for the defendant,
and assess the balance in his favor at the sum of —— dollars.”

A verdict in favor of the defendant, except where a balance
is found for him in case of a set-off, may be as follows: “ We
the jury find for the defendant.”

No. 9. Judgment in replevin for plaintiffk

“ It is considered that for the wrongful taking and unlawful
detaining, (or the unlawful detention, as the case may be,) complained of by the plaintifff, the said plaintifff recover of the defendant the‘ sum of for his damages sustained by reason
thereof, with the costs of suit taxed at .”

If the defendant succeed in his defense, before the justice or
jury, there will be a general verdict and judgment in his favor,
“ That the defendant go hence without day and recover of the
plaintifff his costs,” &,c., as in forms Nos. 5 and 7. _

Or if the defendant shall have pleaded a plea entitling hm) 10
a judgment for the return of the property replevied, to-Wlt3 11
plea of property in himself, or any person other than the plain’
tiff, at the time of suing out the writ of replevin; and such plea
be found true, the judgment will read, “It is thereforee considered
that the defendant have return of the goods and chattels replevied, or such art thereof as may be adjudged to him,) to-WIS
(here ecribe tliem,) agreeably to law; and that he recover of
the plaintifff his costs,” &c., as above.

 

No. 10. Execution against goods and chattels.

State of Indiana, . county, set.
To any constable of township, greeting:
Whereas, A— B— obtained judgment against C-— D‘_'‘9 1”‘
fore ——- , a justice of the peace for said townsl}|Pv for
-—, with interest thereon from the day of ——- t1”P‘“d’

together with costs of suit taxed at —— on the ——- dill’ °f

 

You are thereforee commanded, (adding here in case 0?“
being a second execution on the same judgment, “35 hem

commanded, ”) that of the goods and chattels of the Said 0''

D—, in your county, (except such as are by law exempted from
execut1on,) you cause to be made the said debt and damages,
(or damages, as the case may be,) interest, and costs, and accruing costs, by levy and sale thereof, returning the overplus, it
any, to the said C— —: Hereof make legal service and due
return within one hundred and twenty days from this date.
Given under my hand and seal this day of , 18-.
t J— H—, [SEALJ
Justice of the peace.

   

N o. 11. Execution against the body.

State of Indiana, county, sct.

To any constable of township, greeting:

Recite the judgment (as in No. 10, and say): “ You are thereforee commanded that you take the body of the said C— D— to
satisfy the said A— B— the debt and damages (or damages),
interest, and costs, and accruing costs, and commit the said CD— to the common jail of said county, there to be detained
until such debt and damages (or damages), interest, and costs
be fully paid and satisfied, or e be otherwise discharged according to law: Hereof make legal service and due return.

Given under my hand and seal this day of ,‘18—.

J— H— [sEAL.]
. , Justice of the peace.

An execution of this kind shall be endorsed on the back by
the justice, “Issued on affidavit.”

No. 12. Domestic attachment.

State of Indiana, county, sct:
To any constable of township, greeting: ‘
Whereas, A— B— hath made oath before me, J— H—, a
justice of the peace of said township, that C— D—, late of said
county, is secretly leaving this state, (or has left this state)
with intent to defraud his creditors, (or to avoid the service
of civil process,) or keeps himself concealed so that process
cannot be served upon him, with intent to delay (or defraud)
his creditors, (as the affidavit may be,) and that the said CD-— is indebted to the said A— B— in the sum of ,
(here describe the debt or demand, as in the affidavit.) You
are thereforee hereby commanded forthwith to attach the
oods, chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects of the said
D— in your county, to be kept and disposed of according
to law: (In case of an affidavit against a garnishee, say,) And
Whereas, the said A— B—— has also made oath that E— F— of
said county is indebted to the said 0- D—, (or has property,
money, elfects, or credits, of the said C— D— in his hands, as
the case may be.) You are thereforee further commanded to
Summon said E— F— to appear before me the said J— H—, a
justice as aforesaid, at my office, on the day of , at
-—— o’clock in the noon, then and there to answer under

 

   

oath, touching such indebtedness or the_ property, money, effects, or credits,) of the said C— —, within his possession or

knowledge. Hereof make legal service and due return.
Given under my hand and seal th

Justice of the peace. '
A separate summons, whenever necessary, may issue against
any garnishee.

No. 13. Ajidwvit for a landlord’s warrant.

State of Indiana, county, set:
A— B—, being duly sworn, says, that C 

‘ debted to him the said A’-— B-— (or to E— F——, - _
In Of "'—"’9 bemg

said A— B— is agent or attorney,) in the su _
—— years (or months, or weeks) rent of (here describe the

premises,) situated in —— township in said county; pay_3bl°
er valuable articles

in (here state whether in money or oth _
or services,) on the day of and that he the Safd
aiiiant has reason to believe,
he danger of losing the said debt or re
by proceeding to collect the same in the usu

ordinary debts, and further saith not.
(Si ed) A. B.

   

Subscribed and sworn to before me, a Jus

said township (or city) this —— day of
J . H., justice of the peace.

No. 14. Landlord’s warrant.

 
 

   

, being
part thereof, as may be) due and ayable in money, 0

valuable articles or services,) on t to A’
B— for the same, as by atiidavit of
ceed thereon for the recovery of said rent, as the

Given under my hand and seal this —— d
H--"""9 [Sub]

J____

Justice of the Peace‘

 

‘No. 15. Writpof replevin.

State of Indiana, —— county, sct:

To any constable of —— township, greeting: md
You are hereby commanded that you take into your clllswigg
wherever they may be ~found in said county, the Wfi¢3tlh°their

goods and chattels, to-wit: (here describe them,

value, as in the afl'idavit,) and them ‘safely keep, until A— B-—,
plaintifff herein, shall satisfy and secure you by sufficient pledges,
that he will well and truly, without delay, prosecute to effect
this writ of replevin against C— D-—, defendant herein, and
such other persons as may become his co-defendants, and return
such goods and chattels, if return shall be adjudged to the person from whom they may be taken, and pay such damages and
costs as may be awarded against him, if the defendant succeed
in his defense herein; and that on being so satisfied and secured,
you deliver such goods and chattels to the said A— B—, and
summon the said G— D—, and if the said A— 13- shall require you so to do, the person from whose possession you may
take such goods and chattels, to appear before me, J— H—, a
justice of the peace of said township, at my office therein, on
the day of -—-, at — o’clock in the noon, to answer
the said A— B— of and concerning the wrongful taking and
unlawful detaining (or of the unlawful detention, as the case
may be,) of said goods and chattels, to his damage dollars,
as is said ; and of this writ make due service and return.
Given under my hand and seal this day of , 18-.

J H , [sEAL.]
Justice of the peace.

 
 

No. 16. Scire facias on transcript.

State of Indiana, —— county, sct:

To any constable of township, greeting: .

Whereas, on the day of , A— B— obtained judgment before C— D—, a justice of the township of ,
county and state aforesaid, for the sum of , debt, (or
damages) with interest thereon from the day of
till paid, and costs of suit, taxed at ; costs accrued since,
; whole costs ; making in all the sum of ; as by
transcript thereof duly certified appears: And whereas, such
judgment is still in full force, unreversed and_ unsatisfied, and_
execution thereof yet remains to be made, as is on the part of
the said A— B+ alleged: You are thereforee hereby commanded that you summon the said to appear before me,
J— H—, a justice of the peace ‘of said —— township, at my
office therein, on the a day of —, at o’clock in the
—noon, to show cause, if any he have or can, why execution
shall not issue against him for the debt and damages, (or dam cres,) interest and costs aforesaid. Hereof make due service

 
   

   

 

   

     

 

: an return.

Given under my hand and seal this —— day of -———, 18—J H , [SEALo]
Justice of the peace.

A scire facias against special bail, or a justice or constable,
for not paying over money collected, may be substaigtiallythe
same as above, making the necessary variations in it e recital,
and saying “show cause why the said A— B— ought not to

   

have judgment and execution‘ against the said -——- for said sum
of , (adding, in case of a justice or constable) with ten

per centum damages thereon, with interest and costs,” &c.

 

No.) 17. Judgment on scire facias.

Come the parties, (or comes the plaintifff, &c. as in the above
forms,) and the cause being fully heard and inspected, &c., it is
considered that said A— B— have execution (or judgment and
execution) against said E— F— for —, the debt and damages
(or damages) aforesaid, with interest thereon from the —— day

of till paid, and , the costs aforesaid, making the sum
of —, exclusive of interest; together with his costs by him
about his suit herein expended, taxed at —. (Add, in case
of a justice or constable, “together with ten per centum damages thereon,” &,c.)

   

No. 18. Dedimus to take testimony.

The state of Indiana, to A-— B—, esquire, a —— of the
county of , in the state of —-—, greeting:

Reposing confidence in your prudence and fidelity, you are
hereby authorized and empowered, at such time and place as
may be appointed, and of which you may be duly notified, diliently to examine, under oath to be by you first administered,

—- D—, (and others,) witnesses in a‘ cause now pending before
.I— H—, esquire, a justice of the peace in and for the county of
—-—, in the state of Indiana, wherein E— F— is plaintifff, and
K-- L— is defendant, in a plea of ——-, as well on the partof
, as on the part of the —; on such questions and_interrogatories as may be asked of them; and on such examinations being reduced to writing, and signed by them and yourself:
and duly attested, you cause towbe sealed up, together with this
writ, and transmitted, with all convenien_t speed, to the said J-—
H—, in the township of , in the county and state last aforesaid. Witness, J— H—, a justice of the peace of said county
of —-—, in the State of Indiana aforesaid, this —— day of —-—A. 1)., 13-. J H————, [sm--]

Justice of the peace.

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER 48.

OF SPECIAL WRITS AND PROCEEDINGS.

23. Habeas corpus to let to baiL

ARTICLE 1. Of the writ of habeas corpus.
ARTICLE 2. Of informations in the nature of a quo warranto.
Anrrcnn 3. Of the write of mandamus and prohibition.
Aimcna 4. Of scire facias.
Anncns 5. Of the writ of ad quod damnum.
A B T I C L E I .

Of the writ of habeas corpus.

Sscrrox Sacrron
1. Who may have a writ of habeas corpus.

2. Petition: its requisites.‘
3. By what judge or court the writ may
be granted.

To be granted without delay.

. To whom directed.

To whom writ shall be delivered.

Same subject.

To whom in case person to whom

writ is directed cannot be found.
Refusal to obey writ, attachment
may issue.

10. Return: what it shall contain.

11. Officer, &.c. to produce party held in
custody, &.c.

12. Last section qualified.

13. Same subject.

14. Court or judge to proceed to a hearing, &c.

15. Party may traverse return, &c.

16. Court or judge to hear allegations
and proofs in a summary way.

17. Shall have power to compel attendance of witnesses.

18. Shall discharge person, if no cause
be shown for his detention.

5° 9’:4.°‘°‘:“

19. If party be in custody by virtue of U. 3

States process, &x:., he shall be remanded.

20. Cases in which party may be discharged out of custody on process.

21. Person in custody, &c., on justice‘s
warrant, not discharged for defect,
&.c., of warrant.

22. Party charged with a criminal oifence,
court or judge may send for and
examine witnesses, 8oc.: may discharge party, commit, or let him to
ball.

24. Judge may take recognizance, &c.

25. Cases in which court shall remand
party.

26. Some subject.

27. Party, how detained pending the writ.

28. Notice to person interested in process,
&.c,, by which party is detained in
custody.

29. Notice to complainant in case,of a
criminal charge.

30. How notice served.

31. Habeas corpus shall not be disobeyed
for defect in form, &c.

32. Sheriff, &c. obeying writ not liable
to an action: may plead the general
issue, and give pecial matter in
evidence.

33. Cases in which person discharged
shall not be again held in custody:
exceptions.

34. Cases in which a warrant may issue
to bring person in custody before
the court or judge.

35. Such warrant may also be against
the person who holds the other in
custody, &c.

36. How warrant executed.

37. Return, may be traversed, &.c.

38. Decision thereon.

39. When writ, &.c. may be served on
Sunday.

40. Clerk shall issue writ, warrant, &.c.:
time of their return.

41. When returned. .

42. Action against a judge, oliicer, &c-s
for refusing or disobeying writ.

43. Evading writ, &c., a misdemeanor44. Or auisting therein.

45. Punishment in case of conviction.

SECTION 1. Evey person unlawfully committed, detained,
confined, or restrained of his liberty for any criminal or supposed criminal matter, or under any pretense whatever, may
prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause of
such imprisonment or restraint?‘ _ _ _

Sncr. 2. Application for such writ shall be made by petition
signed either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by
some person in his behalf; and shall specify, _

1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for is
imprisoned or restrained in his liberty; the officer or person by
whom he is so confined or restrained; and the place where;
naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing them, if
they are not known; ‘ _

2. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint,
according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party;

3. If the imprisonment be a.lle ed to be illegal, the petition
must also state in what the allege illegality consists; _

4. The petition must be verified by the oath or afiirmation
of the party making the a plication. .

SECT. 3. Such Writ of habeas corpus may be granted by
the su reme or circuit court in term time, or by any_]udge
thereo at any time, whether in term or vacation; and it may
also be granted by a judge of the probate court, whenever the
same is necessary to the exercise of the jurisdiction of such
court, to protect the rights and liberty of infants and insane
persons, or when the party is in custody by virtue of any Wm:
order, or process issued out of such court. _

Snow. 4. Any court or judge empowered to grant any Wm
applied for under this article, to whom such petition may be
presented, if it appear that the writ ought to issue, shall grant
the same without delay.

SECT. 5. Such Writ shall be directed to the officer or party
having such person in custody or under restraint, commanflmg
him to have the body of such person so imprisoned or detained:
as it is alleged by petition, before the court or judge, 8? the
case may be, at such time as the court or judge shall direct,
specifying in such writ_the place where the petition will be
heard, to do and receive what shall be then and there considered
concerning such person, together with the time and cause of
his detention, and have then there such Writ.

Sscr. 6. If such writ be directed to the sheriff _or. other
ministerial officerof the court out of which such writ is lSSll8ds
it shall be delivered by the clerk to such officer without dela)'i
as other writs are delivered for service.

Siccr. 7. If such writ be directed to any officer OT P°’s°"
other than are specified in the last preceding section; the same
shall be delivered to the sheriff, or his deputy, or the coroner, as
the case may require, and shall be by him served up011 5“
officer or person by delivering the sa.me to him without delaySeer. 8. If the officer or person to whom such writ is
directed cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the
officer or person serving or delivering such writ, the same ay
be served or delivered by leaving it at the residence 0 the
officer or person to whom it is directed, or by aliixing the same
on some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his dwelling
house or of the place where the party is confined or under restramt.

Smcr. 9. If the officer or person to whom such writ is directed refuse, after due service as aforesaid, to obey the same
it shall be the duty of the court or judge, upon affidavit, to issue
an attachment against such person, directed to the sheriff or
coroner, as the case may require, commanding him forthwith to
apprehend such person, and bring him immediately before such
court or judge; and upon being so brought, he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until he make due return to such
writ or be otherwise legally discharged.

Saar. 10. The oliicer or person upon whom such writ shall
be duly served, shall state in his return, plainly and unequivocally,

1. Whether he have or have not the party in his custody
or under his power or restraint;

2. If he have the party in his custody or power or under his
restraint, he shall state the authority and the cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting forth the same at large;

3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant,
or other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to
the return, and the original shall be produced and exhibited to
the court or judge, on the hearing of such return;

4. If the officer, or person upon whom such writ shall have
been served, shall have had the party in his power or custody,
or under his restraint, at any time prior or subsequent to the
date of the writ of habeas corpus, but such officer or person
has transferred such custody or restraint to another, the return
shall state particularly to whom, at what time and place, for
what cause, and by what authority, such transfer took place;

5. The return must he s’ ned by the person making the
same, and, except where sue person shall be a sworn public
officer, and shall make such return in his ofiicial capacity, it
shall be verified by his oath or affirmation.

Seer. 11. ‘If the writ of habeas corpus be served, the person or officer to whom the same is directed shall also bring the
body of the party in his custody or under his restraint, according to the command of the writ, except in the cases specified in
the next two sections.

SE01‘. 12. Whenever, from sickness or infirmity of the person directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such ‘

person cannot, without danger, be brought before the court or
judge, the officer or person in whose custody or power he is,
may state that fact in his return to the writ, verifying the same

by affidavit.

SE01‘. 13. -If the court or judge _be satisfied of the truth of

such allegation of sickness or infirmity, and the return to the
proceed

writ be otherwise sufficient, such court or judge may _
to decide on such return, and to dispose of the matter as if such

party had been produced on the writ, or the hearing thereof
may be adjourned until such party can be produced.

Snow. 14. The court or judge
habeas corpus shall be returned, shall, immediately aft

turn thereof, proceed to hear an . _
other matters as may be properly submitted to their hearing

and consideration.
Sncr. 15. The party brought before the court or judge, on

the return of the writ, may deny or controvert any of the maet forth in the return, or except to the

llege any fact, to show either that his
imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that he is entitled to
his discharge; which allegations, except in cases
ments on a criminal charge by a justice of the peace, shall be
on oath or affirmation; and the petition, return, pleadings, and
allegations of the parties may be amended, in form or substance,

without any delay or continuance of the hearing. _
9 Snow. 16. Such court or judge shall thereupon proceed in 1:

“ summary way, to hear such a .
produced against such imprisonment or detention,

the same, and to dispose of such party as the justice 0

may require.
Sncr. 17. Such court or judge shall have full power and

authority torequire and compel the attendance of witnesses, by
process of subpoena and attachment; and to do all other acts
and things necessary to a fair and full hearing and determination

of the case. _ _
Snow. 18. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment

m or restraint, or for the continua , ,
shall discharge such party from the custody or restramt under

15‘ which he is held.

,1 Srzcr. 19. It shall be the duty of such court or judge, if the
detained in cus" ' ' d ' ' 1 ll
it time uring which such party may be ega y" it Shall appear

ge

by any court or judge Of Elle
United States, in a case where such judge or court has exclusive

jurisdiction ; ‘or,
2. By virtue of the final judgment or decree of any com_peI;
tent court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execuU0

issued upon such judgment or decree; or, . m_
3. For any contempt specially or plainly charged "1 the. °_° w
mitment, by some court, officer, or body, having authority

commit for the contempt so charged : U
of And no court or judge, on the return of any habeas corp S7

‘ shall have power to inquire into _
judgment, decree, or execution, above specified

except that an order of commitment for any alleged contempt,
or upon proceedings as for a contempt, to enforce the rights or
remedies of any party, or any attachment, or other process
issued upon any such order, shall not be deemed a judgment,
decree, or execution, within the meaning of this section; nor
shall this section apply to "cases of persons committed on a
criminal charge, by a Warrant of commitment, issued by a justice of the peace.

S1-3c'r. 20. If it appear on the return to the writ of habeas
corpus, that the prisoner is in custody by virtue of process from
any court of this state, or judge or officer thereof, such prisoner
may be discharged in any one of the following cases, subject,
however, to the restrictions of the last preceding section:

1. Where such person is arrested on mesne process, and has
a right by law to controvert the proceedings or allegations of
the plaintifff, in order to hold such person to bail; "‘

2. Where the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been
exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum, or person ; 4

3. Where the imprisonment was at first lawful, yet by some
act, omission, or event, which has taken place afterwards, the
party has become entitled to be discharged;

. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance required by law, rendering such process void;

5. VVhere the process, though proper 111 form, has been issued
in a case not allowed by law; 6. Where the person havin the custody of the prisoner is
not the person empowered by aw to detain him ;

7. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment,
order, or decree, of any court, nor by any provision of law;

8. Where a party has been committed on a criminal charge,
without reasonable or probable cause.

Srccr. 21. If any person be committed to prison, or be in:
custody of any officer, on any criminal charge, by virtue of any]?
warrant or commitment of a justice of the peace, such person 1
shall not be discharged from such imprisonment or custody, by ;
reason of any defect or informality of such warrant or commit- ‘
ment, if such Warrant or commitment allege substantially against
such person a criminal offense, of which such justice had jurisdiction.

Srszcr. 22. If it shall appear to the court or judge, by aliida- I
vit, or upon the hearing of the matter, or otherwise, or upon 3
the inspection of the p1'0cess or warrant of commitment, and 0
such other papers in the proceedings as may be _shoWn to such 
court or judge, that the party is guilty of a criminal offense, or n
ought not to be discharged, such court or judge, although the
charge be defectively or unsubstantially set forth in such process or warrant of commitment shall cause the complainant, or 2
other necessary witnesses to be subpoenaed to attend at such 0,
time as shall be ordered, to testify before such court or judge; b‘

and upon the examination, he shall discharge such prisoner, let
him to bail, if the offense be bailable, or recommit him to custody,
as may be just and legal.

SEc'r. 23. Whenever any person may be imprisoned or detained in custody on any criminal charge, for want of bail,
such person shall be entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, fo_r_tlie
purpose of giving bail, upon averting that fact in his petition,
without alleging that he is illegally confined.

SECT. 924. Any judge, before whom any person who has

been committed on a criminal charge. may be brought on a Writ

of habeas corpus, if the same be bailable, may take arecognizance from such person, as in other cases, and shall file the
same in the proper court without delay.

. SECT. 25. If any party, brought before the court or judge
on the return of the writ, be not entitled to his discharge, and
be not bailed, where bail is allowable, such court or judge shall
remand him to custody, or place him under the restraint from
which he was taken, if the person under Whose custody or restraint he was be legally entitled thereto. _

SE01‘. 26. In cases where any party is held under illegal restraint or custody, and any other person is entitled to the
restraint or custody of such party, such judge or court may
order such party to be committed to the restraint or custody of

such person as by law is entitled thereto.
Sncr. 27. Until judgment be given on the return, the court

,, Sncr. 28. When it appears from the return of any such Writ
id or otherwise, that the party named therein is in custody 0_I1 39)’

Li; process under which any person has
5- his imprisonment or restraint, no ord

discharge until it shall appear that the party so interested, _
agent or attorney, if in the county, shall have had reasonable notice
of the time and place at which such writ shall have been made

returnable.

SECT. 29. When it shall appear from the return,_that such
nise party is detained on a criminal charge, such court or ju
" make no order for the discharge of such party, except ml“

him to bail, if he be committed for Want of bail, until I I
able notice of the time and place of hearing such return shll
have been given to the person, his agent or attorney, on whose

complaint such party is held in custody. d. 0
SE01‘. 30. The notice required in the last two prece 

. ‘ . . f t
sections, shall be served by delivering a copyitgiegggy gt his

CD

party entitled to such notice, or by leaving suc h Writ
usual place of residence, and may be served as soon as t e
is issued. d for

mus Snow. 31. No writ of habeas corpus shall be disolJ_eY° h Se
~ ed any defect of form, if it sufficiently appear therefrom In W °

custody or under whose restraint the party imprisoned or restrained is, the officer or person detaining him, and the court, or
judge before whom he is to be brought.

SECT. 32. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to any
civil action for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order of discharge made thereon; and if any action shall be
brought thereon against such sheriff or officer for suffering any
person committed to his custody to go at large pursuant to such
writ or order, he may give the same, together with the provisions of this article, and all other matters of defense, in evidence under the general issue. ‘

Snow. 33. No person who has been discharged by the order
of the court or judge upon a habeas corpus, issued pursuant to
the provisions of this article, shall be again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody for the same cause; but it shall not
be deemed the same cause,

1. If he shall have been discharged from custody on a criminal charge and be afterwards committed for the same offense
by legal order or process; or

2. If after a discharge for defect of proof, or for any defect
in the process, Warrant, or commitment in a criminal case, the
prisoner be again arrested on sufficient proof and committed by

egal process for the same offense; or

3. If, in any civil suit, the party shall have been discharged
for any illegality in the judgment or process, and is afterwards
imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action; or

4. If, in any civil suit, he shall have been discharged from
commitment on mesne process, and shall be afterwards committed on execution in the same cause, or on mesne process in
another suit for the same cause of action, after the first suit
shall have been dismissed or discontinued, or the plaintifff nonsuited.

Sncr. 34. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof, by
affidavit to any court or judge authorized by law to grant a
writ of habeas corpus, that any one is illegally held in custody,
confinement, or restraint, and that there is good reason to believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of
such court or judge before whom the application is made, or
will suffer some irreparable injury before compliance with a
writ of habeas corpus can be enforced, such court or judge
may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting the facts and directed to any sheriff, coroner, or constable of the county, commanding such officer to take such person thus held in custody,
confinement, or restraint, and forthwith bring him or her before
such court or judge, to be dealt with according to law.

Sacr. 35. Such court or judge may also, if the same be

deemed necessary, insert in such warrant a command for the,
apprehension of the person charged with such illegal detention .

or restraint.

Sncr. 36. The officer to whom any such warrant is deliver- ;

ed, shall execute the same by bringing the person or persons

therein named, before the court or judge who may have di«
rected the issuing of such warrant.

SECT. 37. The person alleged to have such party under illegal
confinement or restraint, may make return to such warrant as
in case of a writ of habeas corpus; and the same may betraversed, and like pleadings, allegations, proofs, and trial ‘shall be
thereon had, as upon a return to a writ of habeas corpus._

Sncr. 38. If such party he held under illegal restraint or
custody, he or she shall be discharged; and if not, he or_she
shall be restored to the care or custody of the person entitled
thereto, or left at liberty as the case may require. _

Seer. 39. Any writ or process authorized by this article,
may be issued and served, in cases of emergency, on the first
day of the week, commonly called Sunday. .

Si.-zcr. 40. All writs, warrants, process, and subpoenas, au“ thnrized by the provisions of this article, shall be issued by the
clerk of the court, and, except subpoenas, sealed with the seal

l of such court; and shall be served and returned forthwith,
unless the court or judge shall specify a particular time for any
such return.

Sncr. 41. All such writs and process, when issued by order
of a judge, shall be returned before him at the county seat» and
shall be there heard and determined. _

t Snow. 42. If any judge, after a proper application is mad?»

’ shall refuse to grant an order for a writ of habeas corpus, or If

- the officer or person to whom such writ may be directed shall
refuse obedience to the command thereof, he shall forfeit and
pay to the person aggrieved a sum not exceeding five hundred
dollars, to be recovered by an action of debt in any collrlof
record having cognizance thereof. _

Sncr. 43. Any one having in his custody or under his re” straint or power, any person for whose relief a writ of haheas
corpus shall have been duly issued, pursuant to the_pr0VlS10n-9
of this article, who, with intent to elude the service of such
writ or to avoid the effect thereof, shall transfer such person to
the custody of another, or shall place him or her under the
power or control of another, or shall conceal or change the
place of his or her confinement or restraint, or shall remove hlm
or her without the jurisdiction of such court or judge, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. _ .

SECT. 44. Every person who shall knowingly aid or “Sim
in the commission of any offense specified in the last precedwg
section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. h

‘in Sncr. 4.5. Every person convicted of any offense under t_8

‘c’ provisions of the last two preceding sections, shall _be fined 11:1
any sum not exceeding one thousand dollars; to which ID?) 3
added imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding ninety
days.

ARTICLE -11.

Of informations in the nature of a quo warranto. .

Sscrron Sscrxon
46. On whose information and in what 56. Cases in which awrit of inquiry ma
cases writ may issue: 1. Persons be awardedunlawfully holding office. 2. After 57- 1881189: l10W triedforfeiture of oliice. 3. Against per- 53- P101>ee1l111g311g9-11151 °01'P01’111eb0die£

gong no; incorporated aggumingcor. duty of prosecuting attorney.

pomte powers, 59. Proceedings on application to file suc
47, summoo9_ information.
43, W,-it against any one for usurping 60. Filing of an information against :

office, &,c. may specifyithe person °01'P°1'111i011; 3111111110115emmod to such office, 61. Case in which a summons shall no
49. Judgment in such case. be 11e¢ee911-1'Y50. If such person beadjudged entitled, he 52- 5111111110118. 110W 881181!may, on taking oath of offioo, &c,, 63. Case of several persons claiming thu

enter on duties of such office, &.c.: 31111111 015159 01’ f1'1“11'-h159moydomand books, goo, 64. Pleadings and issues, how tried.5l. If books, &c. refused, party ofI'end- C°111111111111°eeiog may be fined, goo, 65. Cases in which judgment of ouster
52. May be committed until he deliver 1113)’ be 19111191011books, &c. 66. Costs allowed in favor of relator.
53. Party recovering office may proceed 57- C0515: 110111 1111811 111111 6011001811; 1
against the person ousted, for da- 113119111131 11111)’ be 11PP01111e11 111 111131
mogoo_ of a corporation; his duties.
54_ Notice to o_d,,o,so po_ny_ 68. Proceedings to recover property es55_ Defence may be pleaded; judgment, cheated or forfeited to the state.
if for plaintifff.

Snow. 46. An information, in the nature of a quo warranto,
may be filed either in term or vacation by the prosecuting attorney of any circuit, on his own relation, or on the relation of
any private party, without leave of the court in any of the following cases: '

1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise within this state, or any othce in any corporation created
by the authority of this state:

2. Whenever any public officer, civil or military, shall have
done or suffered any act which by the provisions of law, shall

Work a forfeiture of his office:

3. Where any association or number of persons shall act.

within this state as a corporation, without being legally incorporated.

Snow. 47. Whenever any such information shall be filed, a
writ of summons shall be issued thereon, which shall be served
and returned in like manner as in personal actions.

Sscr. 48. Whenever any such information shall be filed
against any person for usurping any office, the prosecuting attorney, in addition to the matters now required to be set forth
in the information, may also set forth therein the name of the
person rightfully entitled to such office, with an averment of his
right thereto.

Snow. 49. In every such case jud ment shall be rendered

upon the right of the defendant, and a so upon the right of the
party soaverred to be entitled, or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice may require. _

Sncr. 50. If judgment be rendered on the right of the person so averred to be entitled, and such judgment be in his favor,
a he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing

any official bond which may be required by law, to take upon

himself the execution of the duties of such office; and it She“
be his duty, immediately thereafter, to demand of the defendant
in such information all the books and papers in the custody of
such defendant, or within his power, belonging to the office from
which he shall have been ousted. _

Sncr. 51. If such defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver
; over any such books and papers, pursuant to such deman_d,.he

shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon convlctlell
thereof, shall be lined in any sum not exceeding one thousand
dollars.

Sncr. 52. In the case specified in the last preceding section,
ie the court may make it a part of their judgment, if such b_00li5
’ and papers have not been delivered at the time of such ]l1dg'

ment, that such defendant stand committed to the jail of the

county until such delivery be made, or until he be otherwise

discharged by the court. _
'- Sncr. 53. If judgment on any such information shall be In

.. may, at any time within one year after the renditionof sue

judgment, make and file a suggestion that he has sustained flamages to some amount, by reason of such usurpation, inti'usI0|1
into, or unlawful exercising or holding of the office by the S19‘
fendant, from which such defendant has been evicted, specifying
therein the nature of such damages.

Sizer. 54. Such suggestion shall be filed and entered as 11
continuation of the proceedings on such information, and the
defendant shall be notified thereof in writing, at least ten days
before the hearing and trial thereof.

SECT. 55. The defendant may plead generally that the P?’
son filing such suggestion has not sustained any daleeges -V
reason of the premises in his suggestion alleged;
trial of such issue it shall appear that the defendant has re , .
any fees or emoluments belonging to sue
has otherwise sustained any damages by such usurpation,
'0, plaintifff shall have judgment for such equitable sum as he

be entitled to recover from such defendant. Ye?
hich Sncr. 56. If no issue in fact be joined in any such suggh
.au'i- tion. or if iudgment be rendered against the defendant bl’ dew ’

on demurrer or otherwise, a writ of inquiry may be awarded as
in other cases of the assessment of damages.

SECT. 57. All issues of fact or of law that shall be joined
between the parties shall be determined as in personal actions;
and the party in whose favor judgment shall be rendered, may
have execution for any damages and costs, or either, that may
be adjudged to him, in the same manner as in personal actions.

SECT. 58. An information in the nature of a quo warranto
may be filed by the prosecuting attorney, upon his own relation, on leave granted, against any corporate body, whenever
such corporation shall have,

1. Offended against any of the provisions of the act or acts
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation; or,

2. Violated the provisions of any law, by which such corporation shall have forfeited its charter by misuser; or,

3. Forfeited iis privileges and franchises by non-user; or,

4. Done or omitted any acts which amount to a surrender
of itsicorporaterights, privileges, and franchises; or,

5. Whenever it shall exercise any franchise or privilege not

conferred upon it by law;"‘

And it shall be the duty of the proper prosecuting attorney I
to file such information in the office of the clerk of the circuit 6
court for the county where thetprincipal office or place of busi- "
ness of such corporation may be, in every instance in which
he shall have good reason to believe that such information can be
established by proof. _

SECT. 59. Leave to file such information against such corpo- p
ration may be granted by the circuit. court in_ term time; and it;
such court, may, in their discretion, direct notice of such appli- 8,
cation to be given to the corporation, or its officers, previous to ti«
granting such leave, and may hear such corporation in opposition thcreto. .

SECT. 60. Upon such leave being granted and endorsed on Ir,
the information, under the hand of the clerk of the court, the 
prosecuting attorney may forthwith file the same; and ‘thereupon a writ of summons may issue against such corporation, to Su
be directed to the sheriff or other proper o_f‘iicer of the county,
commanding him to'summon such corporation to appear in the
said court to answer the said information. '

Sncr. 61. But where such corporation_shall appear _by coun- Cm
sel, pursuant to the notice above authorized to be given, and abs
shall be heard in opposition to the granting of such leave, the 
court, on granting leave, may also direct a rule to _be entered,
requiring the defendants to appear and plead to such information
on or before the first day of the next term of such court; and

in such case it shall not be necessary to issue a Writ of summons.

Sncr. 6?. Whenever a summons shall be issued against any

such incorporation, such summons shall b
as in personal actions against any such corporation."

SECT. 63. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, one information may be filed against

all such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such
office or franchise.

Snow. 64. The parties may plead, and the issues shall be
made up, and issues of law and of fact may be tried, and continuances be granted, and further time be allowed to plead, as

in ersonal actions.
I nor. 65. Whenever any person or persons, against whom

any such information shall be exhibited, shall be found or adjudged uilty of any usurpation of or intrusion into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any office, civil or military, or any
franchise within this state, or any officein ‘any corporation
created by the authority of this state, or whenever any public
officer, civil or military, thus charged, shall be found or adjudged
guilty of having done or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office, or when any
association or number of persons shall be found or adjudged
guilty of having acted as a corporation, without ‘having been
legally incorporated, it shall be lawful for said court to give

judgment of ouster against such person or persons, _wl_iether
association of

they be natural persons, or a corporation, or an
persons claiming to act under corporate powers, and altogether
to exclude such person or persons from such office, franchise,

privileges, or corporate rights, and in cases of corporations, that

the same be dissolved. .
3 Sncr. 66. If judgment be rendered upon any such informa8' tion against any person or persons charged with usurping,lI_1truding into, or unlawfully holding or exercising any public
office as aforesaid, or any franchise within this state, _or any
office in any corporation created by the authority of this state:

or against any person whose office is forfeited, the court trying

the same and rendering such judgment, shall adjudge C_05l5
' h information:

therein, in favor of the relator or relators in suc _
but costs shall not be awarded against any relator in any 8110

proceeding.

SE01‘. 67. If judgment be rendered against any co

:ol- or against any persons claiming to. be a corporation, upon 811)’
e costs therein 68.1"

such information, the court shall adjudg A
other cases, and may cause them to’ be collected by execution

against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by attach‘
any such c0TP°'

ment against the directors or other officers of d

my T313011; and whenever any such judgment shall be 1‘e11de’e.’
o restralg

iver of its pr(}p€=1°lY ‘mf

ad
m the court, as a court of chancery, shall have power t
make distribution them’

rporation,

)I'p0‘ such corporation, to appoint a rece
effects, and to take an account and

among its creditors; and it shall be the duty of the prosecuting
attorney, immediately after the rendition of any such judgment,
to institute proceedings for that purpose on the chancery side of
said court.*

Saar. 68. Whenever by the provisions of law, any property,
real or personal, shall escheat or be forfeited to the state, for
the use of the state, its legal title shall be deemed to be in the
state from the time of such escheat or forfeiture; and an information may be filed by the proper prosecuting attorney in the
circuit court of the county having jurisdiction, for the recovery
of such property, alleging the grounds on which such recovery
is claimed; upon which the like proceedings and judgment sha I
be bad, if the inf/ormation be to recover personal property, as
in actions of trover or replevin; and if it be to recover real
property, as in the action of ejectment.

ARTICLE III.

Of the writs qf mandamus and prohibition.

SECTION SECTION
69. Jurisdiction in case pf mandamus. 79. Prohibition, when to issue out of the
70. When writ to issue out of the supreme 5UP1'9me 0' °i1'°"l‘ c°““court. 80. 'l‘o issue on affidavit; return of writ.
71. When out of a circuit court. ' 31- Cmnmand Of the Wm72. How such writ shall issue; when re- . 82. How served; returns 110W enforcedmmnble, _ 83. Party named in the writ may adopt
73. Return, return of the court to which the writ
74. P]eadjngs_ , is directed; adverse party may plead,
75. Damages, &c. thereto: issues.
76. Recovery to be a bar, &.c. 84. Proceedings, if return not thus adopt77. Power of court to enlarge time for a ed.
return, to plead, &.c. 85. Judgment.

78. Fine, &.c. in case of refusing to obey 86. Prohibition absolute, &.c.
a peremptory mandamus; such fine
a bar to a criminal prosecution.

Sscr. 69. A writ of mandamus may issue out of the supreme .
court, or any of the circuit courts of this state, subject to the 
provisions hereinafter prescribed.

S1-:c'r. 70. Such writ shall not issue out of the supreme court, :
unless to a court of record of inferior jurisdiction, or to some 1
tribunal or ministerial officer, in cases where the granting of
such writ is necessary and proper to the due exercise of the
jurisdiction and powers of such supreme court/I

Smcr. 71. In all other cases where proceedings by such writ
are proper and necessary, such writ shall issue out of the circuit court havi%g jurisdiction. .
rits of mandamus shall issue upon aliidavits by

motion; and shall be tested, in the name of the clerk, and sealed
with the seal of the court, and shall be returnable at such reasonable time as the court shall direct.

SECT. 73. When any writ of mandamus shall be issued out
of any circuit court in this state, the person, body, or tribunal
to whom the same shall be directedand delivered, shall make
return to the first writ of mandamus; and for neglect so to do,
shall be proceeded against as for a contempt.

‘Snow. 74. \Vhenever a return shall be made to any such
writ, the person prosecuting such Writ may demur or plead to
all or any of the material facts contained in said return; to
which the person making such return shall reply, take issue, or
demur; and the -like proceedings, trial, and judgment shall be
had therein for the determination thereof, as might have been
bad, if the person prosecuting said Writ had brought his action

on the case for a false return.
Snow. 75. In case a verdict shall be found for the person

suing out such writ, or if judgment be given for him on demurrer, or by default, or for want of a replication or any other
pleading, he shall recover damages and costs in like manner as
he might have done in such action on the case as aforesaid; and
a peremptory mandamus shall be granted to him without delaye Snow. 76. A recovery of damages, by virtue of this article:
against any party who shall have made a return to a writ of
mandamus, shall be a bar to any other action against the same
party for the making of such return.

rt SECT. 77. The court shall have the same power to enlarge

:3 the time of making a return, and pleading to such writ, and for
filing any subsequent pleadings, and to continue such cause: as

in gersonal actions. .
nor. 78. Whenever a peremptory mandamus shall be d1E8 rected to any public officer, body, or board, commanding him 01'
1- them to perform any public duty specially enjoined upon them by
any provisions of law, if it shall appear to the cou _ _
officer, or any member of such body or board, has, witho_u1_J“5i
excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined,
the court may impose a line not exceeding two hundred 110
fifty dollars, upon every such officer or member of_ such bod)’
181‘ or board; and such fine, when collected shall be paid over for
1 the use of the seminary fund; and the payment of .
shall be a bar to any criminal prosecution for any pe11allY‘”'
curred by such officer or member of such body or board, bg’
reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty S0 01110199 '
SECT. 79. Writs of prohibition may issue from the Sl1PF°m°
.18 court, or any circuit court of this state; but such writ shall 155"?‘
ssential to S110

:31}, from the supreme court only when the same is e

court in the exercise of its jurisdiction and powers, and no
other court can ‘take cognizance of the subject matter thereof.

Sizer. 80. Such writs shall be applied for upon aiiidavits, by
motion, and shall be issuable and returnable in like manner as
writs of mandamus. SE01‘. 8]. The writ shall command the court and party to
whom it shall be directed to desist and refrain from any
further proceedings in the suit or matter therein specified, until
the return of the writ and the further order of the court granting the writ thereon; and upon such return, to show cause why
they shall not be absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in such suit or matter.

SECT. 82. Such writ shall be served upon the court or tribunal and party to whom it shall be directed, in the same
manner as a writ of mandamus; and a return shall, in like
manner, be made thereto by such court, which may be enforced
by attachment.

SEC_'I‘. 83. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition
shall have been directed shall, by instrument in writing signed
by him and annexed to such return, adopt the return made by
such court or tribunal, and rely upon the matters therein contained, as sufficient cause why such court should not be restrained, as mentioned in the said writ, such party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant in such matter; and the person
prosecuting such writ may reply, take issue, or demur to the
matters so relied upon by such defendant; and the like proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues of law or fact joined
between the arties, and for the rendering of judgment thereon
as in persona actions.

Sn:c'r. 84. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition
shall have been directed, shall not adopt such return as above
provided, the party prosecuting such Writ shall bring on the argument of such return, as upon a rule to show cause; and he
may, by his 'own aiiidavit and other proofs, controvert the
matters set forth in such return. SE01‘. 85. The court, after hearing the proofs and allegations
of the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition
absolute, restraining the said court and party from proceeding
in such suit or matter, do issue; or a writ of consultation, authorizing the court and party to proceed in the suit or matter
in question. _ .

SECT. 86. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition shall be directed, shall adopt the return of the court thereto
as above provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the
party prosecuting such writ, a prohibition absolute shall be
issued; if judgment be given ainst such party, a writ of consultation shall be awarded, asaaghove provided.

ARTICLE IV.
Of scire facias.

Sscrrou Sr-zcnon

87. Sci. fa. to revive judgment after three 94. Executors &,c. may make profert of
years. letters in sci. fa.

88. After a year and a day affidavit re- 95. Stay of execution, and appraisement
quired. of property, in cases of forfeited re89. Certain cases in which writ may is- cognizances.
sue: when limited to a year, &,c. 96. Proceedings in case of forfeited re90. As to successors, trustees, guardians, cognizances before a justice of the
&.c. peace.

91. How issued, tested,and returned, &c. 97. Proceedings thereon in circuit court.
92. Returned “not found,“ effect thereof: 98. Sci. fa. to charge lands, defendant

issued to another county. may plead in abatement that he has
93. Sci fa. may be in place of a declara- no lands, 614:.
tion.

A’

Saar. 87. It shall not be necessary to revive a judgment by
scire facias, where an execution shall not have been issued upon
such judgment, until the expiration of three years from and
after the rendition of such judgment. "

Snow. 88. But if no execution have been issued for a year
and a day, an execution shall not issue until the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, shall have filed with the officer issuing execution, an affidavit that such judgment has not been paid or satisfied, and that there is not, as he verily believes, any good reason
why such execution should not be issued.

Snow. 89. A writ of scire facias may issue in the cases not
otherwise provided for by law to revive a judgment against the
personal representatives of any deceased defendant, or in favor
of the personal representatives of a deceased plaintiii, or when
the situation of either party is changed by marriage, or to continue a suit by or against the representatives of either party
who shall have died in the progress of any suit; but writs of
scire facias against the personal representatives of any party to
an action, shall be issued within one year after the cause for
issuing the same shall arise.’r

Snow. 90. Such writ may also be issued, and the suit revived
for or against the successor of any guardian, trustee, or public
officer in whose name or on whose relation any suit may have
been pending, in like manner as provided in the last section,
and shall be subject to all the provisions of law respecting the
revival of suits for or against the representatives of a deceased

party.

Sizer. 91. Writs of scire facias may be issued, tested, and A
returned, in like manner as a writ of summons, and may also E
be served as a summons, without the aid of two freeholders, a
whether the defendant be or be not found in the bailiwick of the e‘
officer to whom the writ may be directed. _

Seer. 92. If such writ be returned “not found,” a second F
writ may issue; and if such second writ be also returned “not 3
found,” the same proceedings may be had on such scire facias
as if it had been returned “served ;” or such writ may be issued
to any county in the state, but in such case, no further proceed- I
ings shall be had thereon, unless such writ be returned “served ‘
on the defendant.” *

Snow. 93. N o declaration shall be required to be filed to the 5
scire facias, and the scire facias may be amended, pleaded to, and 
proceeded on, as in case of a declaration.T _

Snow. 94. Where executors or administrators are plaintifffs 1
in any writ of scire facias, they may make profert of their let- }
ters testamentary, or of administration, in the scire facias, ini
the same manner as now practised in the declaration; and the
defendant shall plead to such writ as to a declaration.

Snow. 95. ‘Where judgment of execution is rendered on any :
scire facias on a forfeited recognizance in a criminal case, the ,
defendants shall be entitled, from the time of such rendition, to j
all the provisions of the laws of this state allowing a stay of *
execution, on the entering of replevin bail, and also requiring
the property of execution-defendants to be appraised before the
sale thereof under execution.

Seer. 96. Where a recognizance is taken for the appearance
of any person, to answer a criminal charge before a justice of
the peace, and such recognizance shall be forfeited, such justice
shall enter judgment of forfeiture thereon, and immediately file
a transcript of such recognizance and judgment, in the clerk’s
office of the circuit court of his county.

Snow. 97. Such clerk shall forthwith enter such transcript
on the order book, and a scire facias shall be issued, and judgment for execution be awarded thereon, as if such forfeiture
had been taken in such circuit court.

Snow. 98. It shall be lawful for any defendant to any scire
facias to charge real estate, to plead in abatement of the scire
facias that said defendant had no real estate in said county, at

the time of issuing said scire facias. I

ARTICLE V.

Of the writ of ad quod damnum.

SECTION

99.

100.

101.

102.
103.

104.
105.
106.

107.
108.

109

1 10.

Sncr. 99.

Application for such writ by the
owner of the bank and bed of the
river, wishing to build a mill, etc.

Writ issued to sheriff by order of
the court-—con1mand thereof—notice to the other party.

How the sheriff shall charge the
juryInquest to be returned by the sheriff.

Owner of lands on both sides of the
river may have such writ to examine what lands will be overflowed
etc. i

Or any person having erected a mill
etc.; may have such writ.

Jury in such case, how summoned,
and notice given.

Inquest.

When application shall be dismissed.

Any person injured by overflow, etc., may prosecute such
writ.

Inquest in such case and effect
thereof.

Person affected by any inquest provided for by this article, may apIf any person owning lands on one side of

Section
pear and traverse the sarno—may

plead in bar, etc.

111. Proceedings therein.

112. Court may render judgment for damages, etc.

113. Cases in which leave to build a dam
etc., shall not be given — when
leave may be given.

114. Case in which applicant, upon paying damages, etc., shall become
seized of one acre of land—time
therefore limited—-how his right
affected if mill destroyed.

115. Recovery of damages shall bar anaction.
116. Last section qualified. .
117. Proceedings in case of mfants-—

guardian ad litem.

118. Guardian shall appear for infants.
119. Case in which owner of mill ma)’
enter on lands of another to secure

banks, etc.
120. Last section not to affect right of
the owner of the land to an action121. Penalty for injuring embankment.
etc.

8. W11‘

ter course and the bed thereof, either by_legal or equitable titlea

desires to erect a dam across such water course for the purpose

of building a water grist, saw, carding, or fulling mill, or of erecte

ing any machinery on such land, to

Water, and

propelled by

does not own the land on the opposite side of such Water

course,
make ap

against or on which he would abut his
p ication for a writ of ad
court of the county where such lands lie,

dam. he_ma_y
quod damnum, to the circuit
specifying in such application the ground and object thereof. ,

Sncr. 100. Such court may thereupon order the clerk to
issue such writ, to be directed to the sheriff, commanding him
to summon and impannel twelve fit persons to meet on the land
so proposed for the abutment, on a certain day to be named by
the court and inserted in said writ, of which meeting ten days’
previous notice to the proprietor of such land shall be given if
to be found in the county; and if not, then to his agent,
if any he have in such county; or if there be no such agent, then
to be advertised at the door of the court house of the proper
county for two terms of such court.

Snow. 10]. The jury so summoned and impannelled, after
being sworn, shall be charged by the sheriff, impartially and to
the best of their skill and judgment,

I. To view the land proposed for an abutment, and to locate
and circumscribe, by metes and bounds, one acre thereof,
having due regard therein to the interest of both parties, and to
appraise the same according to its true value;

2- To examine the lands above and below, the property of
others, which may probably be overflowed or injured, and say
what damage it will be to the several proprietors, naming them,
and whether the mansion house of any such proprietor or proprietors, or the offices, curtilages, or gardens thereunto immediately belonging, will be overflowed or injured;

3. To inquire whether and in what degree, fish of passage or
ordinary navigation will be obstructed; and whether, in their
opinion, the health of the neighborhood will be annoyed by the
stagnation of the water; and,

4. Whether and by what means any such obstruction, annoyance, or injury can be prevented.*‘

Sncr. 102. The inquest so made and signed b said jurors,
together with the writ, shall be forthwith returned y the sheriff
to the office of the clerk of such court; and said sheriff shall
thereupon immediately give notice thereof in writing to the several persons, proprietors or tenants of the lands so located or
found liable to damage or injury, if such persons be found within
the county where the lands so to be condemned, overflowed, or
injured lie, and if not, then to their agents, if any they have, to
show cause why the party so applying should not have leave to
build his said mill dam.

‘ Sscr. 103. If the person proposing to build any such mill and
dam shall own the land on both sides of the water course, application may be made, in like manner, to the circuit court of
the county where the mill house will stand, for a writ to examine as aforesaid, what lands may be overflowed or injured,
and to make the same examination, assessment of damages, and
report, so far as the same is necessar , as in the case first mentioned in this article; which writ shal be directed, executed and

§

returned and notice given to the proprietors or their agents as

prescribed in the former case.
Saar 104. When any person shall have erected a mill and

mill dam on his own lands, whereby the water of any river,
creek, or spring of another shall be overflowed or affected, or
his lands or tenements, or any appurtenances thereof, shall be
injured, the person who erected such mill and mill dam, may
prosecute a writ of ad quod damnum, as provided in the first,
second, third, and fourth sections of this article, so far as the

same are applicable.
SECT. 105. Such jury shall be summoned, and such inquest

conducted and returned, and notice given, as on an application
in the case of erecting a new mill.
Snow. 106. Such jury, if they find such mill to be of public
utility, shall examine and take into consideration the damages
in the premises, and shall assess such equitable amount therefore
as the party injured or affected may have sustained, and will
sustain, by the erection and continuance of such mill dam.
SEc'r. 107. In case of anysuch application by any erson,
after having erected his mill dam, no damages shall be a lowed,
and the application shall be dismissed, unless the case be such,
that leave would have been given to build a mill, if such application had been filed before the erection of the mill dam.
Sncr. 108. Where any person may have built a mill or other
dam, whereby the water of any river, creek, run, or spring may
. be rendered stagnant, or any lands shall be overflowed or injured thereby, it may be lawful for any person interested therein, or who may be damaged by the stagnation or overflowing of
said water, or otherwise, to obtain a writ of ad quod damnum,
in the same manner as is directed in the case of persons wishing
to build a new mill, having first given the owner of such mill

ten_ days’ previous notice of the application for such writ."
Srzcr. 199. The jury so summoned shall ascertain the daconsequence o
dam, and shall inquire whether the said mill is of public utility;

and after the inquest of such jury shall have been returned, and

it has been confirmed by the court, such owner or owners of the

said mill shall pay to such applicant the sum assessed by the
t, if the

jury aforesaid; and upon payment of said assessmen
said mill was found by the jury to be of public utility, the said
owner or owners shall be exonerated from all damages to such

applicant.
Srzcr. 110. Any person interested in or affected by any inis article, may appear and traverse 
1

ted
my quest provided for in th

’""' material fact therein stated, or he may plead or show any va

‘DR,

atter in bar of the right of the applicant to have the benefit AR
such writ; and issues of law and of fact may be made up it;

id tried, and the court may adjudge costs therein, as in actions bar

;common law.
Sizer. 111. The court may permit amendments of the pro- pm

aedings, and may set aside, for sufficient cause, any such in- the

uest, and award another writ, upon the payment of all costs
y the applicant, or may dismiss the proceedings, or the court

iay ratify and confirm such inquest.
Seer. 112. The couizt may render judgment and issue exe- co

ution for any amount of damages assessed by such jury against gel
ny such person owning or wishing to build any mill or mill 0'
lam, as specified in this article, in favor of the party entitled to
uch damages, if desired by the party thus en-titled.

SECT. 113. If, in the case of an application provided for in c.
.he first and fifth sections of this article, it shall appear on such 5‘:
nquest or other evidence to the court that the mill or appurte- m
iances thereto belonging. or the mansion house of any proprie£01‘, or curtilage, or garden, thereunto immediately belonging,
will be or has been overflowed or injured, or the health of the
nei hborhood annoyed, they shall not give leave to build such
mill!‘ and dam; but if none of those injuries, have accrued, nor V
will likely accrue, they shall then proceed to adjudge whether, I‘
under all the circumstances, it be reasonable that such leave be

given, or not given. _ . .
SECT. 114. If the party applying shall obtain leave to build \
respectively, to the F

the said mill and dam, he shall, upon paying, 1]
several persons entitled, the value of the acre so located, and 3

the damages which the jurors may assess on the inquest afore- :
' lei of the said acre of land; but;

said, become seized in fee simp _ _
if he shall not, within one year after the decision of ‘the court,
d finish the same within three

begin to build the said mill, an_ _ _ _
years, and afterwards continue it in good repair for public use,
or in case the said mill and dam, or either of them, be destroyed,

if he shall not begin to rebuild the same, within one year after ~
such destruction, and finish the erection thereof within three
years thereafter, the said acre of land shall revert to the former
proprietor, and his heirs, unless at the time of such destruction
the owner of such mill be a feme covert, an infant, imprisoned,
or of unsound mind, in which case, the length of time above
specified shall be allowed after such disability shall be removed.
SECT. 115. Any assessment of damages, in pursuance of the
provisions of this article, when the same shall be fully paid and

satisfied, after confirmation of such assessment by the court,
y damages or injury sustained pre' ' nd every action at

,shall be construed to bar the owner of such

Sacr. 116. But such inquest of the said jurors, and alhrma' tion thereof by the court, shall not bar any action which any
person would have had for any subsequent damage or injury, if
this law had never been passed, other than for such damages or
injuries as were actually foreseen and decided upon by the

jur . ,
1 gr-:c'r. 117. When any application is made, as provided in

- the first or fifth section of this article, and any of the proprie- '

tors to be affected thereby shall be infants, such proceedings
and inquisition shall be conducted and returned, in all respects,
as lg guctlil infants vfilere olf futll age ;t_put the dcourt shall not pro;
cee . ur er in suc app ica ion uni some iscree person no

of km to the applicant, shall be appointed by the court as guardian ad litem for such infants.

1 SECT. 118. Such guardian ad litem shall appear and defend
for such infants; but no confession, admission, or default of such
guardian shall prejudice or affect the rights of such infants.

Sscr. 119. Where the water, backed up by any mill dam
belonging to any mill or machinery, is about to break through
or over the ban s of the stream or to wash a channel so as to
turn the water of such stream, ,or any part thereof, out of its
bed or ordinary channel, whereby such mill or machinery will
be injured or affected the owner or occupier of such mill or
machinery, if he do net own such bank or banks, or the lands
lying contiguous thereto, may, if necessary, enter thereon, and
erect and keep in repair such embankments, fortifications, and
other works as shall be requisite to prevent such water from
breallring thrlclmgh pr ovpr thedbankhor banks of such_ stream, ctr
was mg a c anne as a oresai suc owner or occupier comm: - ,
tin thereon no unnecessary vwiaste or damage.

scr. 120. Nothing contained in the last preceding section

I d 1 _ _ th f ankhor banks, 01%
an ying contiguous ereto rom recovering t e amount 0
any injury which he may have,actually and in fact sustained by
the irection or repair of such embankment, fortification or other

wor s.

S1.-:c'r. 121. If any person shall injure, destroy, or remove

' any such embankment, fortification, or other works, the owner

or occupier of such mill or machinery may recover of such person all amages which he may sustain by reason of such injury,
destruction, or removal.

CHAPTER 49.

‘OF THE MODE OF CHANGING THE VENUE IN CIVIL CAUSES.

SECTION Sscrron
1. Who may petition for a change of G. Clerk employing person to carry pavenue : who may grant such change pers, &.c., responsible for his fidelity.
2. What the petition shall contain; or- 7. Petition, &,c., where deposited.
der of the judge, &c. to the clerk. 8. Counties to which change shall not
3. Clerk receiving papers to receipt there- be granted.
for. 9. Application in vacation.
4. Powers, &.c. of the court to which . 10. Ten days notice to the adverse party.
the change is taken. 11. Party failing in his application shall
5. Fees, &.c., how and when paid. pay adverse party five dollars.

SECTION 1. In all civil suits, at common law and in chancery,
cognizable in any of the circuit courts of this state, now pending, or which may hereafter be pending, when either of the par—
ties shall conceive that he will not receive a fair trial in the
circuit court where such suit is pending,

1. Owing to the presiding judge having been engaged as
counsel in the cause prior to his appointment as judge; or,

2. That one or both of the associate judges of the court in
which the suit is pending, is of kin to either of the parties in
any of the following degrees, to-wit: as father, son, brother,
uncle, first cousin, or brother-in-law; or,

3. Where one or both of the associate judges are interested,
or the presiding judge may be of kin to one of the parties in
the manner aforesaid; or,

4. Because of the undue influence of his adversary, or of the
odium which attends the said party, or attaches to his legal
cause of action or defense, or on account of local prejudices;

It shall be lawful for the party so suspecting that he will not
receive a fair and impartial trial in the court then entertaining
said suit, owing to the said causes, or any of them, at any time,
-to petition the court, or the president judge of the circuit, or
the associate judges of the county where the suit is pending,
for a change of venue.

SE01‘. 2. Such petition shall distinctly set forth the cause or
causes why such belief is entertained, and be supported by the
affidavit of the petitioner or petitioners, or some one of them;
whereupon the court in term, or the judge or judges aforesaid
in vacation, under his hand or their hands, may award a change
of venue, and order the clerk of the court before whom the suit
is then pendin , forthwith to transmit the papers and a transcript i
of the procee ings in said suit, by some meet person, employed
by such clerk, to such court having jurisdiction in similar cases,
as the said court, judge, or judges may direct.

Sac-r. 3. The clerk of such court shall receive such papers 4
and transcripts, and file the same, giving a receipt therefore, and 11
shall docket the said suit in order with other causes.

Snow. 4. The court to which such papers are sent shall be,
and is hereby vested with full power, authority, and jurisdiction, to award subpoenas for witnesses, to enforce their attendance, to grant commissions for taking depositions, to hear and
determine such suit, to award executions, and do all matters
and things relative thereto, which the court from which the
cause was removed, might or could legally have done."

Snow. 5. The expenses attending the removal shall be paid
by the party praying the same; and the person who shall be
entrusted to convey said papers to the clerk of the circuit court
to which they shall be sent, shall receive the sum of eight cents
for each mile which he must necessarily travel in going to and
returning from said clerk’s office; which sum shall be paid into
the hands of the clerk of the court where the cause originated,
before the papers shall be delivered out of his office.

Seer. 6. The clerk shall be answerable for the fidelity of the
person whom he may employ to carry said papers from his
office, as above provided; but he shall not be answerable for
accidents not arising from neglect.

Snow. 7. The venue shall in no case be changed, unless the
party who prays the same shall deposite the order of the court,
or judge or judges granting such change, together with the petition aforesaid, (which shall be carefully preserved by the clerk
of the court,) and also the necessary expenses attending the removal, with the clerk having custody of the papers, at least
thirty days before the term of the court to which such suit shall
be sent for trial.

Snow. 8. N 0 change of venue shall be granted so as to have
the cause sent to either of the counties where the parties may
reside; nor shall there be more than one removal of the same
cause.

SE01‘. 9. No change of venue shall be granted so as to take

the cause out of the circuit, unless on account of some valid
objection to the president judge of the circuit in which the
cause was instituted.
a Snow. 10. No application for a change of venue shall be
heard in vacation until the party applying for such change
shall produce to the judge or judges to whom such application
is made, satisfactory proof that the adverse party has had ten
days’ previous notice in writing of the time and place at which
such application is intended to be made, or in case of his absence out of the county or state, to his agent or attorney at
law; which notice shall be certified by the judge granting such
change, to the clerk where the suit was commenced.T

SECT. 11. If any person wishing to obtain a change of venue
shall have given notice to the opposite party, as is provided by
this chapter, and shall fail to attend on the day and at the place
appointed, or shall attend and not show sufficient cause for such

change, he shall pay to the opposite party five dollars, to be

taxed by the clerk, and collected as other costs; and in order
the better to carry this section into effect, the judge or judges
before whom the application.is made for a change of venue,
shall file the petition and other papers in the clerk’s office, with
the decision thereon.

  

CHAPTER 50.

OF THE MODE OF SUMMONING AND EMPANNELLJNG GRAND AND
PETIT JURORS.

Sscnon Sacnon
1. The number of grand and petit jurors 9. Penalty for juror failing to attend.
to be selected by the board of coun- 10. In case of failure to select at regular

ty commissioners.

2. Qualifications of jurors.

3. Names equal to the number of grand
and petit jurors for a year, to be
placed in a box.

4. Clerk of the circuit court to draw out

. grand and petit jurors for the year.

5. Clerk shall write names of jurors on
separate panels.

term, jurors may be selected at subsequent term.

11. Who may bejurors in certain cases.

12. Jurors may be directed to be sum-i
moned for a particular day of the
term.

13. Venire returnable to such day.

14. If no grand or petit jury, how jury
selected.

6. Jurors to serve to end of term in cer- 15. If panel exhausted, etc., sheriff may

tain cases. select.
7. When jurors may be selected at other 16. Liabilities, etc of such jurors.

than the May session of the board 17. Six challeng, when allowed.
8. Venire.

SECTION 1. Eighteen grand jurors shall be selected by the
board of county commissioners of each county, to attend on
the first day of each term of the circuit court, and twelve petit
jurors for each and every week of each ‘term of such court for
one year succeeding such selection.

Sacr. 2. Such jurors shall be good reputable freeholders or
householders, resident of the county in which they are selected
and taxable therein.

Snow. 3. Such board of county commissioners, at their May
session annually, shall cause a number of names of qualified
persons, equal to the aggregate number of grand and petit
jurors required for the several terms of the circuit court of such
county for the ensuing year, to be written on separate pieces of
paper and put into a a box provided for that purpose.

Snow. ,4. The clerk of the circuit court, in the presence of
such board, shall draw from said box, eighteen names for grand
jurors, and twelve names for petit jurors of the first term of
such year, if the term of said court do not extend by law to
a longer time than one week; if the term extend to two weeks
then twelve names shall be drawn, marked, and designated as
petit jurors for the first week, and twelve names for the second

week of such term; and the board shall proceed in like manner,

' when any term extends to a longer time than two weeks, to
cause twelve names to be drawn, marked, and designated for
each such additional week; and the grand and petit jurors for
each succeeding term of the year, shall be drawn as above prescribed, from said box.* . .

F SECT. 5. The clerk shall write the names of such grand

.and petit jurors on separate panels, distinguishing for which
term Of the court the grand jurors, and for which week of
each term the petit jurors, have been selected; which panels he
shall record in the order book of such circuit court.T

, SECT. 6. If the term of any circuit court shall have been

: extended beyond the time prescribed by law, when the grand
and petit jurors for such term were selected, such jurors shall
serve to the end of the term, if such court shall deem it necessary, for the transaction of the business thereof.

Snow. 7. When the first term of the court next after the

l May session of the board of county commissioners may happen

j within thirty days after such session, the grand and petit jurors
shall be selected for the year commencing with the term of the
court next following the term thus happening within said period
of thirty days.

SE01‘. 8. The clerk of the circuit court shall, at least thirty
days previous to the sitting of the court, make out two writs
containing severally the panels of the grand and petit jurors,
selected as aforesaid for said term, under the seal of the said
circuit court, directed to the sheriff of the county, commanding
him to summon said jurors to appear at such term, at the court
house in said county, to attend to their duties as such jurors.

Snow. 9. Each and every person summoned as a grand or
petit juror under the provisions of this chapter, who, after
having received ten days’ notice by the sheriff, shall neglect or
refuse to attend as aforesaid, shall be fined in any sum not exceeding three dollars, in the discretion of the court, on the motion of the prosecuting attorney; notice having lirst been given
by scire facias or attachment, to the offending party at least ten
days previous to the making of such motion.

Smcr. 10. Whenever the board of county commissioners

i shall omit to make the selection of grand and petit jurors at their
l May session in any year, as above provided, it is hereby made

ieir duty to make such selection at their next, or at any suc- J
aeding term; and such board, and all other persons concerned '
1all_be governed by the same rules, and be subject to the like
sstrictions and penalties, as are hereinbefore provided.

SEc'r. 11. Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as,

J prevent persons over the age of sixty years from serving as j
rand and petit jurors, nor to prevent the board of county com- ‘
nssioners in any new county from selecting rand and petit

urors from the citizens of said county, at their iscretion; nor, a
a an case, to prevent jurors from being obtained, as at com- I
non aw, to make up any deficiency in the regular panel. ‘

S1-:c'r. 12. The president judge of the circuit, or in his ab-.
:ence the associate judges, during the session of the circuit court, j
n each county in this state, may make an order upon the order }
)ook, directing the time at which the petit jury shall be sum-1
noned, to attend the said court during the next succeeding term;
1nd in making said order, the judge or judges shall have reference
:0 the probable amount of business, and shall direct the jury to
be summoned at such time during the term as will most facilitate
the same and lessen the expense to the respective counties. ‘

Sscr. 13. It shall be the duty of the several clerks of the
respective circuit courts to make the venire for petit jurors returnable at such time as the said judges shall direct, whenever
any order is made, as provided in the last receding section.

SECT. 14. Whenever by reason of a c allenge to the array
of grand or petit jurors, or from any cause whatsoever, there
sha I be no such jury at any term of the court, a panel of grand‘
or petit jurors, if necessary, shall be selected by the sheriff or
coroner, or by elizors, as the case may require, from citizens of
the county possessing the qualifications of jurors.

S1-:c'r. 15. Whenever at the term of any court, by reason of
absence, or from being empannelled on the trial of any cause or
causes, the regular panel of jurors for such week of the term
shall be exhausted, and a jury is required for.the trial of any
cause, such jury may be summoned by the sheriff or other proper officer, from citizens of the county possessing the qualifications of jurors.

Snow. 16. Every such jury, when summoned, shall be subject to all the liabilities, duties, privileges, compensation, and
penalties as jurors belonging to the regular panel.

Snow. 17. Whenever a petit jury is summoned as provided
in the last three preceding sections, each party, instead of three,
shall be entitled to six peremptory challenges.

' CHAPTER 51.

OF SPECIAL REMEDIES BY SURETIES AGAINST THEIR PRINCIPALS.

Sacmon Sscrron
1. Surety, by notice in writing, may re- ings may be had while suit is pendquire bond, &.c. to be put in suit. ing, or after judgment.
2. Creditor in suchcase shall commence 7. Provisions extended to heirs, execuan action within a reasonable time. tors, &.c., of surety: this article
3. Surety may have his joint obligor, limited.
&.c. summoned, when suit has been 8. Remedy of surety when he has paid
brought by filing a statement that judgment. I
he is surety, &.c. 9. Remedy of surety against his co4. Proceedings to try whether he exe- surety.
cuted such contract, &.c. as surety. 10. Surety may not confess judgment,
5. Court shall make an order that exe- &c., to the prejudice of his principal.
cution be not levied on property of 11. Remedy of special bail by motion,
the surety, until property of princi- &.c. '
pal exhausted. 12. Ten days’ notice of motion: notice by
6. Suit on note, &.c. not to be delayed publication.

by such proceedings: such proceedSacfrron 1. When any person bound as surety by bond, bill,
note, or otherwise, for the payment of money, or performance
of any contract, shall apprehend that the principal debtor for
whom he is bound is likely to become insolvent, or to remove
from «this state, without previously satisfying or discharging such
debt, duty, demand, or obligation, so that it will become impossible or difiicult for such surety, after paying, satisfying, or discharging such debt, duty, or obligation, to recover the value
thereof from such principal debtor, it shall be lawful for such
surety, if an action have accrued on any such contract, demand, or liability, as aforesaid, to require, by notice in writing,
the creditor or obligee forthwith to put the bond, bill, note, or
other contract by which he is bound as aforesaid, in suit.*‘

Snow. 2. Such creditor shall, within reasonable time, commence an action, and proceed with due diligence to judgment
and execution thereon; and if such creditor or obligee shall fail
or neglect to proceed as aforesaid, the said surety shall be discharged from the performance of said contract, demand, or
liabil1ty.T

Sacr. 3. Whenever any action shall be brought against two
or more individuals on any note, bond, bill, contract, or obligation, any one or more of whom shall have executed the same as

surety for the other, it shall be lawful for the person who may
have executed the same as such surety, to file his statement in
writing, in the court in which such suit is pending, setting forth
that he executed such note, bond, bill, contract, or obligation, as
suret for such other person; and upon filing such statement,
the c erk of such court shall issue a summons to such joint obligor, payer, or contractor, requiring him to appear at the next
term of said court, and answer the matter set forth in said
statement.

Smcr. 4. At the term of said court at which said party shall
be summoned to answer, said summons having been served upon
him ten days before the commencement of said term, if he shall

' deny the matter alleged in said" statement, such parties shall

proceed to make up an issue as in other cases, and thereupon
the court shall empannel a jury to try such issue, if the amount
in controversy be over twenty dollars; and the court or jury,
after hearing the testimony which may be introduced by the
parties, shall determine whether such person or persons so filing
said statement executed the said note, bond, bill, contract, or
obligation, as surety for the other obligor or obligors, payer or

» contractor.

SE01‘. 5. If the court or jury trying such case shall determine that the person or persons filing such statement executed
such note, bond, bill, contract, or obligation, as such surety, the
court shall thereu on make an order directing the sheriff of the
proper county to levy any execution which may be issued upon
the judgment rendered upon such note, bill, bond, contract, or obli- 1
gation, first upon the property of the principal or principals in
said judgment, and exhaust the same before he shall levy upon the
property of such surety, a memorandum of which order shall
be endorsed by the clerk of such court, on any execution issued
on such judgment; which order it shall be and is hereby made
the duty of the sheriff into Whose hands any such execution
may be placed, to obey. .

Snow. 6. The suit upon any such note, blll, bond, contract, 5
or obligation, shall not be delayed or postponed by reason of the 
proceedings of such surety hereby authorized; but such suit;
shall progress without reference to the proceedings instituted by
such surety; and the proceedings herein authorized in favor of
such surety may be instituted and progress, either while suit is S

ending upon such note, bill, bond, contract, or obligation, in 
iavor of the obligee or obligees, payee or payees, of the same, p‘
or after judgment ‘has ldaeen rendered thereon ; but execution shall “
not be thereb dea e .

SEc'r. 7. it he piiovisions of this article shall be extended to P
the heirs, executor, or administrator of any deceased surety, as 3
against the obligee or creditor, or his assignee, executcfrr, lpr ad- 01
ministrator u on his com liance with the rovisions o t is article; but nbtfiling herein cldntained shall bepconstrued to extend 2;
to the ofiicial bonds of public officers, guardians, executors, ad- 1;.
ministrators, or bonds with collateral conditions.

Smcr. 8. When any surety, his heir, executor, or administrator, shall have paid or discharged the debt or contract of his
principal, or part thereof, upon judgment rendered against him,

e shall have judgment to recover the value or amount so paid
or discharged, together with interest and costs, upon motion in
the court where such judgment may have been rendered against
such surety, his heir, executor, or administrator.

SE01‘. 9. In cases where there are two or more sureties to
any bond, bill, note, or contract, and one or more of such sureties are subjected by judgment of any court to the payment of
the debt or damages, by default of the principal obligor or
debtor, and such obligor or debtor be insolvent, so that the
amount or value thereof, cannot be recovered of him, the court
before Whom such judgment may be rendered shall, upon motion of such surety or sureties, grant judgment that they recover against all and every the other co-sureties, their heirs,
executors, and administrators, for their and each of their respective shares and proportions of the amount or value of such
judgment, With damages and costs. *

Sncr. 10. No surety, his heirs, executor, or administrator,
shall be suffered to confess judgment, or suffer judgment by default, so as to distress his principal, if such principal will enter
himself defendant to such suit, and tender to such surety, or his
legal representative aforesaid, good collateral surety, to be approved by the court before whom such suit is pending.

Srzcr. 11. When the special bail of any judgment-debtor
shall be damnified by the payment of such judgment, or part
thereof, such bail, his heirs, executor, or administrator, may recover the amount of such payment, with interest and costs, of
the said debtor, his executor or administrator, upon motion in
the same court where judgment was rendered against such bail,
or his legal representatives.

Snow. 12. In all proceedings by motion under this article,
ten days’ notice of such motion shall be given to the person
against whom such judgment is to operate, by personal service
in writing, if such person is a resident of this state; and if a re, sident out of the state, by publication in some newspaper printed

in the_couuty, or if no such paper is printed therein, then in
one printed nearest thereto, for three successive weeks, at least
twenty days before the term of such court.

CHAPTER 52.
OF PRIVILEGE FROM ARREST.
SECTION Sscrxon
1. Members of the general assembly. law; nor arrested in legislative
2. Electors. chambers; nor in court; nor on
3 Judges, clerk, and sheriff of the su- the 4th of July.
preme court. 9. This chapter qualified.

4. Judges of the circuit courts.

5. County commissioners.

6. Justices of the peace; attorneys at
law; clerks; sheriffs; coroners;
suitors; witnesses; jurors.

7. Persons performing military duty. 13. Person arrested contrary to these pro8. No person arrested in place of re- visions, how discharged.
ligious worship; nor on Sunday, 14. Damages which arrested party may
except when specially allowed by recover.

10. Member of general assembly anested on criminal charge, house to be
notified.

11. When summons may be served.
12. Certain arrests lawful.

SECTION 1. The members of the general assembly of the
state of Indiana, and the secretaries, clerks, sergeants-at-arms,
doorkeepers, and messengers of either branch of the general
assembly of this state shall be privileged from arrest during the
sitting of the legislature, or either branch thereof to which they
respectively belong, and also during the time necessarily
ployed in travelling to and returning from the place of their
meeting, allowing one day for every twenty-live miles of "the
distance of the road most usually travelled; and all proceedings
in suits pending in which any of the persons above mentioned
is a party, shall be stayed during the time aforesaid.

Snow. 2. All persons legally entitled to vote shall be privileged from arrest during the time of their attendance at elections,
and while on the way going to and returning from such electrons. ‘

Sscr. 3.
court shall be privileged from
and during the space of fifteen day
ment, and for the space of ten days next
term thereof.

Sscr. 4. The judges of the several circuit courts within this
state during the sitting of their respective courts, and during
the space of three days next before and after the close of any
term thereof, shall be privileged from arrest.

Snow. 5. Each member of the board of county commissioners, for the space of one day before any of their regular and
legal sessions, during the time employed in said session, and for
one day after the close thereof, shall be privileged from arrest.

Snow. 6. Justices of the peace, while engaged in hearing
and determining any action, suit, or plaint, instituted before
them, or any of them, and all attorneys and counsellors at
law, clerks, sheriffs, coroners, and all suitors, witnesses, and
jurors, while attending court, and while going to and returning
from court, shall be privileged from arrest.

s next before the commenceafter the close of any

I 2

IV.

E

The judges and clerk and sheriff of the supreme,
arrest while attending on the court, A

Snow. 7. No person shall be arrested while doing and performing military duty under the order of his commanding officer,
or while goin to or returning from the place of duty or parade.

Snow. 8. léo person shall be arrested in any place of religious
worship during the performance of divine service, or on the first
day of the week, commonly called Sunday, except in particular
cases provided for by law; nor in the chamber of either legislative body of this state during their sitting; nor in any court of
justice during the sitting of the court; nor on the fourth day of
the month of July, the anniversary of American independence;
but nothing in this section contained shall be so construed as to
prevent any person from arrest if he shall disturb or molest any
religious congregation while engaged in or while met for worshig, or any individual thereof.

nor. 9. Nothing in this cha ter contained shall be construed
to extend to cases of treason, fe ony, or any breach of the penal
laws of this state. ,

Snow. 10. Where any of the members or officers of the
general assembly shall be arrested upon any charge of treason,
felony, or any breach of the peace, during the sitting of the legislature, it shall be the duty of the person issuing the process
on which the arrest is made, forthwith to give written notice
thereof to the house in which the person arrested shall be a
member or oiiicer, addressed to the president or speaker, as the
case may be.

Snow. 11. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
privilege any person herein specified from being served, at any
time, Sundays and the fourth of July excepted, with a summons
or notice to appear. _

Seer. 12. All arrests not contrary to the provisions herein
contained, made in any place on any water course or river
within or bounding on this state shall be deemed lawful.

Snow. 13. If any person shall be arrested contrary to the
provisions herein contained, and forcibly detained in custody,
such persons may and shall be discharged by writ of habeas
corpus, or in a summary way, by motion, before the court from
which the process shall have issued, at the costs of the party
suing out such process.

Snow. 14. Whoever shall arrest, or cause to be arrested,
any of the persons above privileged, when entitled to such pr!vilege from arrest, shall forfeit and pay for every such offense
the sum of one hundred dollars, as and for his damages, With
costs of suit, to be recovered in an action on the case by the
person injured.


