Section 1 . Be it enacted by the General Assembly of th
State of Indiana, That there shall be no distinction in plead
ing and practice between actions at law and suits
equity, and there shall be but one form of action for th
enforcement or protection of private rights, and the redress
of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civi
action. (1.)
Sec. 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the dfr
fendant. (2.)
\_Partie8 to Actions.']
Sec. 3. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided
in the next section ; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising
out of contract. (3.)
Sec. 4. An executor, administrator, a trustee of an ex
press trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue, without joining with him the person for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an express
trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed
to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a con
tract is made for the benefit of another. It shall not be
necessary to make an idiot or lunatic a joint party with his
guardian or committee, except as may be required by
statute. (4.)
Sec. 5. In all cases where actions survive, they may be
commenced by or against the representatives of the de
ceased to whom the interest in the subject matter of tie
action has passed. (5.)
[Causes of Action that Survive."]
Sec. 6. A cause of action arising out of an injury to
the person, dies with the person of either party, except'in
cases in which an action is given for an injury causing the
death of any person, and actions for seduction, false im
prisonment, and malicious prosecution. (782.)
Sec. 7, All other causes of action survive, and may be
brought by or against the representatives of the deceased
party, except actions for promises to marry. (783.)
Sec. 8. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, the personal representatives of
the former, may maintain an action therefore against the
latter, if the former might have maintained an action, had
he lived, against the latter for an injury for the same act or
omission. The action must be commenced within two
years. The damages can not exceed ten thousand dollars,
and must inure to the exclusive benefit of the widow and
children, if any, or next of kin, to be distributed in the
same manner as personal property of the deceased. (784.)
Sec. 9. When any action is brought by the assignee of
a claim arising out of contract, and not assigned by endorsernent in writing, the assignor shall be made a defendant, to
answer as to the assignment, or his interest in the subject of
the action. And all actions by assignees shall be without
prejudice to any set-off, or other defense existing at the
time of, or before notice of the assignment, except actions
on negotiable promissory notes and bills of exchange, trans
ferred in good faith and upon good consideration before
due. (6.)
Sec. 10. Actions upon official bonds, and bonds payable
to the State, shall be brought in the name of the State of
Indiana, upon the relation of the party interested. (7.)
Sec. 11. A married woman may sue alone:
First. When the action concerns her separate property.
Second. When the action is between herself and her
husband; but in no case shall she be required to sue or de
fend by guardian or next friend, except she be under the
age of twenty-one years. (8.)
Sec. 12. When an infant shall have a right of action,
such infant shall be entitled to bring suit thereon, and the
same shall not be delayed or deferred on account of such
infant not being of full age. (10.)
Sec. 13 Before any pi'ocess shall be issued in the name
of an infant, who is a sole plaintifff, a competent and responsible person shall consent in writing to appear, as the
next friend of such infant, and such next friend shall be
responsible for the costs of such action, and thereupon pro
cess shall issue as in other cases ; but where it shall appear
to the Court that such next friend is incompetent, or irre
sponsible, the Court may remove him, and permit some
suitable person to be substituted, without prejudice to the
progress of the action. (11.)
Sec. 14. The Court, in its discretion, may require the
next friend of an infant, in an action for the recovery of
any debt or damages, to execute a written undertaking to
such infant, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Court, that the next friend shall duly account to the infant
for all monies which may be recovered in such action. (12.)
Sec. 15. An infant defendant shall appear and defend,
by guardian appointed by the Court, or chosen by such in
fant with the consent of the Court. (13.)
Sec. 16. No person appointed as guardian, shall be
liable for the costs of the action, unless charged by the
special order of the Court for some personal misconduct in
the same. (14.)
Sec. 17. Any poor person, not having sufficient means
to prosecute or defend an action, may apply to the Court in
which the action is intended to be brought, oris pending, for
leave to prosecute or defend, as a poor person. The Court,
if satisfied that such person has not sufficient means to
prosecute or defend the action, shall admit the applicant to
prosecute or defend as a poor person, and shall assign him
an attorney to defend or prosecute the cause, and all other
officers requisite for the prosecution or defense, who shall
do their duty therein without taking any fee or reward
therefore from such poor person. (15.)
Sec. 18. If the person so admitted be guilty of any
improper conduct, or of any unjustifiable delay in the pro
gress of such action, the Court may, in its discretion, annul
such order, and he shall thereafter be deprived of all bene
fit of the order admitting him to prosecute or defend as
such poor person. (16.)
Sec. 19. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, shall
be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this
act. (17.)
Sec. 20. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the
plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete deter
mination or settlement of the questions involved. (18.)
Sec. 21. Of the parties in the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants;
but, if the consent of any one who should have been joined
as plaintifff can not be obtained, he may be made a defen
dant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and
when the question is one of a common or general interest of
iny persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is
ipracticable to bring them all before the Court, one or
sie may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole. (19.)
Sec. 22. Persons severally and immediately liable upon
e same obligation or instrument, including the parties to
Us of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of
em, be included in the same action, at the option of the
aintiff. (20.)
Sec. 23. No action shall abate by the death or disality of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein,
the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the
eath or disability of a party, the Court, on motion, or suplemental
complaint, at any time within one year, or on
jpplemental complaint afterwards, may allow the action to
e continued by or against his representative or successor
a interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the
ction shall be continued in the name of the original party ;
ir the Court may allow the person to whom the transfer is
mule to be substituted in the action. (21.)
Sec. 24. The Court may determine any controversy
between the parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights ; but when a complete determination of the con
troversy can not be had, without the presence of other par
ties, the Court must cause them to be joined as proper par
ties. And when, in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, a person not a party to the action, but
having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application
to the Court to be made a party, it may order him to be
made a party by the proper amendment. (22.)
Sec. 25. A defendant against whom an action is pendtog upon a contract, or for specific, real or personal prop
erty, may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a
person not a party to the action, and without collusion
with him, makes against him a demand for the same debt
flr property, upon due notice to such person, and the ad
verse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute
"uch person in his place, and discharge him from liability
to either party, on his depositing in Court the amount of
we debt, or delivering the property, or its value, to such
l»:rson as the Court may direct; and the Court may, in its
discretion, make the order. (23.)
Sec. 26. Any unmarried female may prosecute as
Plaintiff an action for her own seduction, and may recover
herein such damages as may be assessed in her favor. (24.)
Sec. 27. A father, or in case of Iris death, or desertion
Qf famjiVi or imprisonment, the mother, may prosecute
as plaintifff for the seduction of the daughter; and the
guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daugh
ter or ward be not living with, or in the ser%Tice of the
plaintifff, at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service. When the action is brought
by the guardian, the damages recovered shall inure to the
Ward. (25)
Sec. 28. When a husband or father has deserted his
famj jy ^ or js imprisoned, the wife or mother may prosecute,
or defend, in his name, any action which he might have
prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers
and rights therein as he might have had. (26.)
Sec. 29. A father, or in case of his death, or desertion
of his family, or imprisonment, the mother, may maintain
an action for the injury or death of a child; and a guar
dian for the injury or death of his ward. But when the ac
tion is brought by the guardian for an injury to his ward,
the damages shall inure to the benefit of his ward. (27.)
[Actions— Where Commenced.]
Sec. 30. Actions for the following causes must beeorumenced in the county in which the subject of the action, or
some part thereof, is situated :
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein, or for the determination in any form of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real prop
erty. (28.)
Sec. 31. Actions for the following causes must be commenecd in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arQge .
First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture im
posed by statute, except when imposed for an offense com
mitted on a lake or river, or other stream of water, situated
in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any
county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and oppo
site to the place where the offense was committed.
Second. Against a public officer, or person specially ap
pointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in
virtue of his office ; or against a person who, by his com
mand, or in his aid, shall do anything touching the duties
of such officer.
Iu all cases enumerated iu this and the section immedi
ately preceding it, process may issue to and be served in
any county in this State. (29.)
Sec. 32. When n corporation, company, or an individnal,
has an office, or agency, in any county for the transaction of business, any action growing out of, or connected
with, the business of such office, may be brought in the
county where the office, or agency, is located, at the option
of the plaintifff, as though the principal resided therein, and
service upon any agent, or clerk, employed in the office, or
agency, shall be sufficient service upon the principal ; or
process may be sent to any county and served upon the
principal. (30.)
Sec. 33. An action to establish, or set aside, a will
must be brought in the county in which the will, if valid,
ought, according to law, to be proved and recorded. (31.)
Sec. 34. An action against a railroad or canal corpora,
• r- l . n , I
tion, or company, or owner ot a line ot stages or coaches,
for an injury to person or property upon the railroad, canal,
or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a lia
bility as a carrier, may be brought in any county through
or into which such railroad, canal, or line of stages or
coaches passes ; and the summons may be served in any
county in the State. ' (32.)
Sec. 35. In all other cases, the action shall be commenced in the county where the defendants, or one of them,
has his usual place of residence. Where there are several
defendants residing in different counties, the action may be
brought in any county where either defendant resides, and
a separate summons may be issued to any other county
where the other defendants may be found ; and in cases of
non-residents, or persons having no permanent residence in
the State, action may be commenced and process served, in
any county where they may be found. But any action
brought by the assignee of a claim, arising out of contract,
whether assigned in writing or by delivery, shall be com
menced in the county where one or more of the parties im
mediately liable to judgment and execution reside, and not
elsewhere. (33.)
[Against Foreign Corporations.]
Sec. 36. Actions may be brought against a corporation
created by or under the laws of any other State, government
or country, in any Court having jurisdiction of the
amount demanded by any person having a cause of action
in any county within the State, where any property, monies,
credits or effects, belonging or due to the corporation may
be found. (681.)
[ACTIONS—WHEN COMMENCED.]
[Limitation of Civil Actions.]
^EC' ^e f°H°wing actions shall be commenced
within six years after the cause of action has accrued, and
not afterwards.
First. On accounts and contracts not in writing.
8eco7id. For use, rents, and profits of real property.
Third. For injuries to property, damages for any deten
tion thereof, and for recovering possession of personal
property.
Fourth. For relief against frauds. (210.)
Sec. 38. The following actions shall be commenced
within the periods herein prescribed after the cause of action
has accrued, and not afterwards.
First. For injuries to person or character, and for a
forfeiture or penalty given by statute, within two years.
Second. All actions against a Sherilt, or other public
officer, or against such officer and his sureties on a public
bond, growing out of a liability incurred by doing an act
in an official capacity, or by the omission of an official
duty, within five years ; but an action may be brought
against the officer or his legal representatives, for money
collected in an official capacity, and not paid over, at any
time within six years.
Third. For the recovery of real property sold on exe
cution, brought by the execution-debtor, his heirs, or any
person claiming under him, by title acquired after the date
of the judgment, within ten years after the sale.
Fourth. For the recovery of real property sold by ex
ecutors, administrators, guardians or commissioners of a
Court, upon a judgment, specially directing the sale of
property sought to be recovered, brought by a party to the
judgment, his heirs, or any person claiming a title under a
party, acquired after the date of the judgment, wilhin five
years after the sale is confirmed.
Fifth. Upon promissory notes, bills of exchange and
other written contracts for the payment of money hereafter
executed, within ten years: Provided, That all such con
tracts as have been heretofore executed may be enforced
under this act, within such time only as they have to run,
fore being barred under the existing law limiting the
mmencement of actions, and not afterward.
Sixth. Upon contracts in writing other than those for
e payment of money, on judgments of Courts of record
id for the recovery of the possession of real estate, within
muty years. (211.)
Sec. 39. All actions not limited by any other statute shall
: brought within fifteen years. In special cases, where a
ifferent limitation is prescribed by statute, the provisions
f this article shall not apply. (212.)
Sec. 40. In an action brought to recover a balance due
pon a mutual, open, and current account between the paries, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued
rom the date of the last item proved in the account on
itherside. (213.)
Sec. 41. A party to any action may plead or reply a
set-off, or payment, to the amount of any cause of action or
lefense, notwithstanding such set-off, or payment, is barred
by the statute. (214.)
Sec. 42. Any person, being under legal disabilities when
the cause of action accrues, may bring his action within
two years after the disability is removed. (215.)
Sec. 43. The time during which the defendant is anonresident
of the State, or absent on public business, shall not
Recomputed in any of the periods of limitation ; but when
a cause has been fully barred by the laws of the place
where the defendant resided, such bar shall be the same detense
here as though it had arisen in this State : Provided,
that the provisions of this section shall be construed to
apply only to causes of action arising without this State.
(216)
Sec. 44. If any person entitled to bring, or liable to
any action, shall die before the expiration of the time limited for the action, the cause of action shall survive, to or
against his representatives, and may be brought at any time
after the expiration of the time limited, within eighteen
months after the death of such person. (217.)
Sec. 45. If, after the commencement of an action, the
plaintifff fails therein, from any cause except negligence in
Ae prosecution, or the action abate, or be defeated by the
death of a party, or judgment be arrested or reversed on
"Ppeal. a new action may be brought within five years
after such determination, and be deemed a continuation of
the first, for the purposes herein contemplated. (218.)
Sec. 46. If any person liable to an action, shall con•sal the fact from the knowledge of the person entitled
thereto, the action may be commenced at any time wit!
the period of limitation, after the discovery of the causes
action. (219.)
Sec. 47. No acknowledgment or promise shall be
jgjjgg Q£ a new or continuing contract, whereby to take
case out of the operation of the provisions of this act,
less the same be contained in some writing, signed by
party to be charged thereby. (220.)
Sec. 48. The acknowledgment or promise of one joir
, j • . , , \ n «■
contractor, or executor or administrator, shall not renc
any other joint contractor, executor or administrator, lial
under the provisions of this article. (221.)
Sec. 49. In actions against two or more defendants
where the plaintifff is barred by the provisions of this arti
cle, as to one or more of the defendants, and is entitled tO
recover against others for any cause, judgment shall be rendered against those liable, and for those not liable. (222.)
Sec. 50. Nothing contained in the preceding sectiona
shall take away or lessen the effect of any payment made
by any person ; but no indorsement or memorandum of any
payment made upon any instrument of writing, by or on
behalf of the party to whom the payment shall purport to
be made, shall be deemed sufficient to exempt the ease from
the provisions of this article. (223.)
Sec. 51. Limitations of actions shall not bar the State
of Indiana, except as to sureties. (224.)
Sec. 52. Every j udgment and decree of any Court of
record of the United States, or of this or any other State,
shall be deemed satisfied after, the expiration of twenty
years. (225.)
Sec. 53. In cases where part only of the persons entitied
to bring an action, are barred by the statute of limitatjonS) a]j mav be joined as plaintifffs; and when it shall ap
pear to the satisfaction of the Court, by admission or other
wise, that part of the plaintifffs are barred by the statute,
the Court, upon motion, shall order the names of such
plaintifffs to be stricken from the record, and the action niav
be prosecuted by those not barred. (226.)
Sec. 54. Neither a joint debtor or his representatives, in
whose favor the statute of limitations has operated, shall be
liable to a joint debtor, or surety, or their representatives,
upon payment by such joint debtor or surety, or their repre
sentatives, of the debt or any part of it. (227.)
Sec. 55. A civil action shall be commenced by filing in
the office of the Clerk a complaint, and causing a summons
to issue thereon ; and the action shall be deemed to be
commenced from the time of issuing the summons; but as
to those against whom publication is made, from the time
of the first publication. The summon shall be issued by
the Clerk, under the seal of the Court, and directed to the
Sheriff, and shall notify the defendant of the action com
menced, the parties thereto, and the Court where pending.
(34.)
Sec. 56. The summons shall be served, either personally
on the defendant, or by leaving a copy thereof at his
usual or last place of residence. An acknowledgment on
the back of the process, or the voluntary appearance of a
defendant, is equivalent to service. Process against per
sons of unsound mind shall be served upon the guardian
of such persons, if there be a guardian. If no guardian
.shall have been appointed, then such process shall be
served by copy upon the Superintendent of the hospital in
which such persons shall be confined, or upon the person
having charge or custody of such person, in which case,
upon proof of the insanity of the defendant, the Court
shall appoint a guardian ad litem for such defendant, whose
duty it shall be to make proper defense to such action. (35.)
Sec. 57. The process against either a domestic or foreign
corporation may be served on the president, presiding
officer, Mayor, chairman of t he Board of Trustees, or other
chief officer, or, if its chief officer is not found in the county,
then upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, general or
special agent, or, if it is a municipal corporation, upon its
Marshal, or, if it is an incorporated library company, upon
its librarian ; if none of the aforesaid officers can be found,
then upon any person authorized to transact business in the
name of such corporation ; and if no such person, officer,
or agent, be found in the county where suit is pending, pro
cess may be sent for service to any other county in the
State, where such person, officer, or agent, may be found :
Provided, however, that process shall not be served upon
any such person, officer, or agent, when he is plaintifff in
the suit, but in such cases process shall be served upon some
other such person, officer, or agent of the corporation, than
such plaintifff; and in case the defendant be a foreign cor
poration having no such person, officer, or agent resident
in the State, service may be made in the same manner as
against other non-residents. (36.)
Sec. 58. No summons, or the service thereof, shall be
ge^ as[^e^ 0l. be adjudged insufficient, where there is suffi
cient substance about either to inform the party on whom
it may be served, that there is an action instituted against
him in Court, the name of the plaintifff and the Court, and
the time when he is required to appear. (37.)
Sec 59. The Clerk, by order of the Court, if in ses
sion, or in vacation, without such order, shall cause a no
tice of the pendency of any action, and the term at which
the same will stand for trial, to be published for three weeks
successively, in some newspaper of general circulation,
named by the plaintifff or his attorney, printed in the Eng
lish language, and published in the county, or, if none be
printed or published therein, then in the county in this State
nearest thereto in which any such paper may be printed, in
either of the following cases, shown by affidavit :
First. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
and has property within the State, or the cause of action
arose therein.
Second. Where the defendant, being a resident of this
State, has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of the summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein, with a like intent.
Third. Where the defendant is not a resident of this
State, and the cause of action is founded upon or connected
with a contract, or arises from a duty imposed by law in
relation to real estate in this State, or the object of the
action is to enforce or discharge a lien, or to obtain a di
vorce, or to try and determine or quiet the title to or pos
session of real estate or any interest therein, or to enforce
the collection of any demand by proceedings in garnishment
or attachment.
Fourth. Where the residence of any defendant, upon
diligent inquiry, is unknown.
Fifth. Where the name of any defendant is unknown,
and he is believed to be a non-resident. (38.)
Sec. 60. Publications of legal and other official mat
ters printed in the English language shall be lawful, if
published in any newspaper of general circulation pub
lished in the county. (1.)
^EC' Wnen tne defendant is a non-resident, per
sonal service of the summons out of the State is equivalent
to publication, and such service may be proved by the affi
davit of a competent person, made before any officer
authorized to administer oaths, which affidavit shall state
the time and place and mode of giving the notice, and set
forth that the person thus served with notice is the identi
cal person named in the action or proceeding ; or the
identity of the person may be proved by the affidavit of
the plaintifff or any other person. (39.)
Sec. 62. Where the action is against two or more de/•
j i , i . °j i .
iendants and the summons is served on one or more, but
not all of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows :
First. If the action be against defendants jointly in
debted on contract, he may proceed against the defendant
served, and if he recover judgment it may be enforced
against the joint property of all and the separate property
of the defendant served ; or,
Second. If the action be against defendants severally
liable, he may proceed against the defendants served in the
same manner as if they were the only defendants, and may
afterwards proceed against those not served.
Third. If all the defendants have been served, judg
ment may be taken against any or either of them severally,
when the plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against
such defendant or defendants, if the action had been against
them or any of them alone. (41.)
Sec. 63. When there is a return of " not found " as to
any of the defendants, such return shall be suggested on
the record, and the plaintifff may continue the cause as to
them for another summons, at his option ; and he may, in
either case, proceed against the defendants served in time.
(42.)
Sec. 64. Parties against whom a judgment has been
rendered, without other notice than the publication in the
newspaper herein required, except in cases of divorce, may
at any time within five years after the rendition of the
judgment, have the same opened, and be allowed to defend.
(43.)
Sec. 65. Before any judgment shall be opened, such
party shall give notice to the original complainant, or his
heirs, devisees, executors or administrators, of his intention
to make application to have the judgment opened as the
Court, in term, or the Judge thereof, in vacation, shall re
quire, and shall file a full answer to the original complaint,
and an affidavit stating that, during the pendency of the
action, he received no actual notice thereof, in time to ap
pear in Court and object to the judgment, and shall also
pay all such costs of the action as the Court shall direct.
(44.)
Sec. 66. If any property, which was the subject of, or
properly sold under any judgment sought to be opened as
provided in the last two preceding sections, shall have
passed into the hands of a purchaser in good faith, he shall
not be affected by any proceedings consequent upon the
opening of the judgment. (45.)
[Defendants Constructively Summoned.]
Sec. 67. A defendant constructively summoned shall
be allowed, at any time before judgment, to appear and de
fend the action, and upon a substantial defense beiug dis
closed, time may be given, on reasonable terms, to prepare
for trial. (391.)
Sec. 68. The statements of a complaint against a de
fendant constructively summoned, and who has not ap
peared, except such as are for his benefit, shall not be taken
as true, but shall be established by proof. (392.)
Sec. 69. Before rendering judgment against a defend
ant constructively summoned, and who has not appeared,
the Court may cause the plaintifff to appear personally in
Court, or before a commissioner, and answer under oath
interrogatories concerning the matters in the complaint, or
any matters which might be set up in defense thereto, in
cluding matters of set-off and counterclaim, and may
order the examination to be reduced to writing and filed
with the papers of the action. (393.)
Sec. 70. If, upon the examination provided in the last section, any matters of set-off or counterclaim are dis
closed, the same may be adjusted by the judgment. (394.)
Sec. 71. No personal judgment shall be rendered against
a defendant constructively summoned who has not appeared
in the action. (395.)
Sec. 72. There shall be kept in the office of the Clerk of
the several Circuit Courts of this State a book to be called
the "Lis Pendens Record,'' which shall be a public record.
(1.)
Sec. 73. Whenever any person shall have commenced
a suit, whether by complaint as plaintifff, or by cross-complaint
as defendant, to enforce any lien upon, right to, or
interest in, any real estate, upon any claim not founded
upon an instrument executed by the party having the legal title to such real estate, as appears from the proper records
of such county, and recorded as by law required, or not
founded .upon a judgment of record in the county wherein
such real estate is situated, against the party having the
legal title to such real estate, as appears from such proper
records, it shall be the duty of such person to file, with the
Clerk of the Circuit Court in each county where the real
estate sought to be affected is situated, a written notice con
taining the title of the court, the names of all the par
ties to such suit, a description of the real estate to be af
fected, and the nature of the lien, right, or interest sought
to be enforced against the same, which notice shall, upon
the payment of the proper fees, be immediately recorded
in said " Lis Pendens Record " by the Clerk, who shall
note upon the record the day and hour when said notice
was filed and recorded. (2.)
Sec. 74. Whenever any Sheriff or Coroner of any
county in this State, shall seize upon any real estate or interest
therein, by virtue of any writ of attachment, or shall
levy upon any such real estate or interest therein, by virtue
of any execution issued to him from any Court other than
the Court of the county in which he is Sheriff or Coroner,
he shall, at the time of making the seizure or levy, file
with the Clerk of the Circuit Court of his county, a writ
ten notice, setting forth the names of the parties to the
proceedings upon which the writ of attachment or execu
tion is founded, and a description of the land seized or
levied upon, which notice shall be recorded, as provided
for in the preceding section of this act, and such Sheriff or
Coroner shall state in his return to the attachment or exe
cution, that such notice has been filed, and for making and
filing which notice he shall be allowed a fee of fifty cents,
to be taxed as costs: Provided, That such Sheriff' or Cor
oner shall not be required to file such notice until the
attachment or execution plaintifff shall have furnished the
money to pay the Clerk for filing and recording the same.
(3.)
Sec. 75. It shall be the duty of the several Clerks,
upon filing and recording the notices herein provided, to
index the same in the name of the several parties whose
interest in such real estate is sought to be affected by such
suits, attachments or executions, the plaintifff versus the
names of all the defendants, and each defendant whose real
estate is sought to be affected at the suit of the plaintifff.
(4)
Sec. 76. The Clerk shall receive twenty-five cents for
filing, recording and indexing each notice required by this
act, to be paid by the person filing the same, and the fur
ther sum of fifteen cents for entering satisfaction of the lien,
right or claimed interest, as hereinafter provided. (5.)
Sec. 77. Upon the final determination of any suit,
brought for the purposes in the second section (sec. 73) of
this act specified, adversely to the party seeking to enfb
lien upon, right to or interest in, such real esttte, it
be the duty of the Court rendering the judgment to orde
the proper Clerk to enter in said " Lis Fenders Record"
satisfaction of the lien, right or interest sought to be enfo
against said real estate, and upon such entry being m
said real estate shall be forever discharged therefrom,
the costs for entering such satisfaction shall be taxed as par
of the costs in the case. (6.)
Sec. 78. Whenever any such attachment shall be dis
missed, or the judgment rendered thereon shall be satisfied, o
such execution shall be satisfied without a sale of such land
so seized or levied upon as aforesaid, or upon a redemption o
such real estate within the time allowed by law after a sal
thereof upon execution, it shall be the duty of the Clerk o
the proper Court, from which such attachment or executio
was issued, upon the payment of a fee of fifty cents, by th
owner of such real estate, to make a certificate of such dis
missal or satisfaction, to be entered upon the "Lis Pendens
Record," if the same is in his office, or to be recorded in th
" Lis Pendens Record " of the proper county where such rea
estate is situated, and upon such certificate being entered or
recorded, such real estate shall be discharged from the lien
of such attachment or execution. (7.)
Sec. 79. Until the proper notices required by this act
haye ^ fijed ^ ^ pr()per Cjerk> ^ brjngi Qf
suits for the purposes mentioned in the second section (sec.
73), and the seizure of real estate under attachments, and
the levy thereon under execution, in the cases mentioned
in the third section (sec. 74), shall not operate as construc
tive notice of the pendency of such suits, or of the seizure
of or levy upon such real estate, nor of any force or effect
as against bona fide purchasers or encumbrancers of the
same. (8.)
Sec. 80. Nothing in this act shall be construed to imtng
0f judgments, of the several Courts of record
of this State, upon the real estate of defendants in the
county where such judgments are rendered, or transcripts
thereof filed and recorded, as now required by law. (9.)
[Pleadings.']
Sec. 81. The pleadings are formal allegations by the
parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judg
ment of the Court. (46.)
Sec. 82. All the distinct forms of pleading heretofore
exjstiDg, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are
ereby abolished ; and hereafter the forms of pleadings in
vil actions in Courts of record, and the rules by which
le sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, are
lodified as prescribed by this act. (47.)
Sec. 83. The onlv pleadings allowed are : w
• i li- •«> a
First. The complaint by the plaintifff.
Second. The demurrer and answer by the defendant.
Third. The demurrer and reply by the plaintifff. (48.)
[Complaint.]
Sec. 84. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff C
is the complaint. The complaint shall contain:
First. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the P
Court and county in which the action is brought, and the u
□ames of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, in plain and concise language, without repetition,
and in such manner as to enable a person of common un
derstanding to know what is intended.
Third. Where the complaint contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be distinctly stated in a separate
paragraph and numbered.
Fourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff
may suppose himself entitled.
If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated. (49.)
[Demurrer.]
Sec. 85. The defendant may demur to the complaint
when it appears upon the face thereof, either,
First. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person
of the defendant or the subject of the action ; or,
Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to
sue; or,
Third. That there is another action pending between
the same parties for the same cause ; or,
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or
defendant; or,
Fifth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action ; or, ■
Sixth. That several causes of action have been improp
erly joined, and for no other cause shall a demurrer be
sustained. (50.)
Sec. 86. When a demurrer is sustained on the groun
of several causes of action being improperly joined in th
same complaint, the Court shall order the misjoinder to 1
noted on the order book and cause as many :
actions to be docketed between the parties as there
causes decided by the Court to be improperly joined,
each shall stand as a separate action, and the plaintitF shalf
thereupon file a complaint in each of the above cases, 1
which the defendant shall enter his appearance and pled
and go to trial, or suffer a default, in the same manner :
in the original action. (51.)
Sec. 87. No judgment shall ever be reversed for any
error committed in sustaining or overruling a demurrer for.
misjoinder of causes of action. (52.)
®EC- ^ Court sustain or overrule a dernurre
the party affected by such ruling may plead over or amend,!
upon such terms as the Court may direct, and on payment J
of costs occasioned by the demurrer. (53.)
Sec. 89. Where any of the matter enumerated in sec- J
j.^r (ejght;y_five) jo not appear upon the face of the
complaint, the objection, (except for misjoinder of causes),
may be taken by answer. If no such objection is taken,
either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed
to have waived the same, except only the objection to the
jurisdiction of the Court over the subject of the action, and
except the objection that the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action : Provided, how
ever, that the objection that the action was brought in the
wrong county, if not taken by answer or demurrer, shall
be deemed to have been waived. (54.)
gEC. 90. The defendant may demur to one or more oi
. n . 1 1 -i • i i > . 5
the several causes ot action alleged in the complaint, ami
answer as to the residue. (55.)
[Judgment on Demurrer.]
SEC. 91. The judgment upon overruling a demurrer
Bi,all be that the party shall plead over, and the answerer
reply shall not be deemed to overrule the objection taken
by demurrer. But no objection taken by demurrer ami
overruled, shall be sufficient to reverse the judgment, it
it appear from the whole record that the merits of the cause
have been fairly determined. If a party fail to plead after
the demurrer is overruled, judgment shall be rendered
against him as upon a default. (382.)
Sec. 92. The answer shall contain :
Firsl. A denial of each allegation of the complaint COntroverted by the defendant.
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counterclaim, or set-off, in plain and concise lan
guage.
Third. The defendant may set forth in his answer as
many grounds of defense, counterclaim, and set-off,
whether legal or equitable, as he shall have. Each shall
be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered,
and clearly refer to the cause of action intended to be an
swered. (56.)
Sec. 93. A set-off shall be allowed only in actions for
money demands upon contract, and must consist of matter
arising out of debt, duty, or contract, liquidated or not,
held by the defendant at the time the suit was commenced,
and matured, at or before the time it is offered as a set-off.
(57.)
Sec. 94. In all actions upon a note or other contract,
against several defendants, any one of whom is principal
and the others sureties therein, any claim upon contract in
favor of the principal defendant, and against the plaintifff,
or any former holder of the note or other contract, may be
pleaded as a set-off by the principal, or any other defend
ant. (58.)
Sec. 95. A counterclaim is any matter arising out of,
or connected with, the cause of action, which might be the
subject of an action in favor of the defendant, or which
would tend to reduce the plaintifff's claim or demand for
damages. (59.)
Sec. 96. If any defendant, personally served with notice,
omit to set up a counterclaim arising out of the contract
or transaction set forth in the complaint as the ground
of the plaintifff's claims, or any of them, he can not after
wards maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore, ex
cept at his own costs. (60.)
Sec. 97. When cross demands have existed between
persons, under such circumstances that one could be pleaded
as a counterclaim, or set-off, to an action brought upon the
other, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the
assignment or death of the other, and the two demands
must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each
other. (61.)
Sec. 98. Several defendants may answer jointly or sev
erally, as the facts set forth in the complaint may require.
(62.)
Sec. 99. When it is necessary for the defendant to
bring a new party before the Court, he may state the mat
ter relating thereto in his answer and demand relief, and
thereupon a summons shall issue, and other proceedings be
had against him as if such matter had been exhibited in the
original complaint. (63.)
Sec. 100. When the facts stated in any paragraph of
the answer are not sufficient to constitute a cause of defense,
the plaintifff may demur to it under the rules prescribed for
demurring to a complaint. (64.)
Sec. 101. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an
jnfant( or committee of a person of unsound mind, or attor
ney appointed for a prisoner, to file an answer, denying the
material allegations of the complaint, prejudicial to such
defendant, without oath. (65.)
Sec. 102, All defenses, except the mere denial of the
facts alleged by the plaintifff", shall be pleaded specially.
(66.)
[Reply.]
Sec. 103. When any paragraph of the answer contains
new matter, the plaintifff may reply to it by a general de
nial, and may, also, in separate paragraphs, reply any new
matter which supports the complaint, and avoids the new
matter in such paragraph of the answer. The defendant
may demur to any paragraph of the reply, on the ground
that the facts stated therein are not sufficient to avoid the
paragraph of answer, or, if the answer be a set off or counter
claim, any part thereof. The paragraphs of the reply, like
the answer, shall be severally numbered, and each shall
plainly refer to the paragraph of the answer to which it is
addressed. The pleadings to a counterclaim shall be an an
swer by the defendant thereto, and a reply to new matter
in the answer, with the right to demur to any of them as
if the counterclaim were an original complaint. (67.)
[Time of Pleading.']
Sec. 104. On the second and each succeeding day of the
term, the Court shall call as many of the causes which stand
for trial at such term, for issues, as the business of the Court
will permit ; the Court shall call the causes in the order
they stand on the docket, and shall compel the parties to
file their respective pleadings, and answers to interrogatories,
at such time as the Court shall deem just, in no case allow
ing unreasonable delay ; and the pleadings shall be com
pleted at an early day of the term. (68.)
Sec. 105. If, from any cause, either party shall fail to
plead or make up the issues within the time prescribed, the
Court shall forthwith enter judgment as upon default, unless
for good cause shown, further time be given for pleading,
on the payment of the costs occasioned by the delay. (69.)
[Joinder of Causes of Action.']
Sec. 106. The plaintifff may unite several causes of
action in the same complaint, when they are included in
either of the following classes :
First. Money demands on contract ;
Second. Injuries to property ;
Third. Injuries to person or character;
Fourth. Claims to recover the possession of personal
property, with or without damages for the withholding
thereof, and for injuries to the property withheld ;
Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of real property,
with or without damages, rents and profits for the with
holding thereof, and for waste or damage done to the land ;
to make partition of and to determine and quiet the title to
real property ;
Sixth. Claims to enforce the specific performance of
contracts, and to avoid contracts for fraud or mistakes ;
Seventh. Claims to foreclose mortgages ; to enforce or
discharge specific liens ; to recover personal judgment upon
the debt secured by such mortgage or lien ; to subject to
sale real property upon demands against decedents estates,
wrhen such property has passed to heirs, devisees or their
assigns ; to marshal assets ; and to substitute one person to
the rights of another ; and all other causes of action arising
out of a contract or a duty, and not falling within either of
the foregoing classes ; but causes of actipn so joined must
affect all the parties to the action, and not require different
places of trial, and must be separately stated and numbered.
(70.)
Sec. 107. When the plaintifff desires to recover the
possession of title papers, or other instruments of writing,
or correct any mistakes therein, a separate action may be
brought therefore ; or the possession of such title papers, or
other instruments of writing, may be recovered, or mistakes
corrected, in any other action, when such recovery or cor
rection would be essential to a complete remedy. (71.)
Sec. 108. When the action arises out of contract, the
plaintifff may join such other matters in his complaint as
may be necessary for a complete remedy, and a speedy sat
isfaction of his judgment, although such other matters fall
within some other one or more of the forgoing classes.
When several causes of action arc united, belonging to any
of the foregoing classes, the Court may order separate trials
for the furtherance of justice. (72.)
[Rules of Pleading.]
Sec. 109. Every pleading in a Court of record must
be subscribed by the party, or his attorney. (73.)
Sec. 110. Every material allegation of the complaint,
not controverted by the answer, and every material allega
tion of new matter in the answer, not controverted by the
reply, shall, for the purpose of the action, be taken as true,
but the allegations of new matter in a reply are to be
deemed controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct
denial or avoidance, as the case may require. Allegations
of value, or amount of damages, shall not be considered as
true by the failure to controvert them, but in actions upon
account, in which an itemized bill of particulars, the cor
rectness of which is duly affirmed or sworn to by the
plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, has been filed with the
complaint, a default, by the defendant, shall be deemed to
admit the correctness of the bill of particulars, as sworn or
affirmed to, and judgment may be rendered thereon with
out further evidence. (74.)
Sec. 111. Pleadings sworn to by either party in any case
shall not on the trial be deemed proof of the facte alleged
therein, nor require other or greater proof on the part of
the adverse party, than those not sworn to except as herein
or otherwise by law provided. (75.)
Sec. 112. When the pleadings show sufficient excuse
for not admitting or denying an allegation, such excuse op
erates as a denial of the truth of the allegation, and to re
quire its proof. (76.)
Sec. 113. When any pleading is founded on a written
instrument or on account, the original, or a copy thereof,
must be filed with the pleading. A set off or counter
claim is within the meaning of this section. Such copy of
a written instrument, when not copied in the pleadings,
shall be taken as part of the record. The account, if the
items are numerous, shall not be copied in the pleadings,
nor be deemed to be part of the record, unless by order of
the Court. Any variance between any pleading and copy
of a written instrument filed as to matter of description or
legal effect, may be amended at any time (as of course) be
fore judgment, without causing a continuance. (78.)
Sec. 114. The Court, on motion, may order a further
bill of particulars, when the one filed is defective; and
may, in all proper cases, upon motion, order a bill of par
ticulars of the claim of either party, and abstracts of title
to be furnished. (79.)
Sec. 115. When a pleading is founded on a written
instrument, or such instrument is therein referred to, or
when an assignment in writing of such instrument is
specially alleged in a pleading, such instrument or assignment may be read in evidence on the trial of the cause
without proving its execution, unless its execution be de
nied by pleading under oath, or by an affidavit filed with
the pleading denying the execution. And when a written
instrument, or assignment, is so pleaded or referred to, proof
of the names of the makers, assignors, obligors, assignees,
payees, or obligees shall not be necessary, unless the same
shall be denied by a pleading under oath or by an affidavit
filed as aforesaid. The oath, in case that the time of assign
ment is questioned, shall be that the party has reason to
believe, and does believe, that the assignment was not made
before the suit was commenced ; but executors, administra
tors, or gnardiaps, need not deny the execution of an instru
ment or the assignment thereof, under oath, but the same
must be proved as if it were so denied. The party shall,
in all cases, be entitled to an inspection of the instrument
in writing, before pleading thereto. (80.)
Sec. 116. Pleadings denying the jurisdiction of the
Court, or in abatement of the action, and all dilatory
pleadings, must be supported by affidavit. The character,
or capacity in which a party sues or is sued, and the au
thority by virtue of which he sues, shall require no proof
on the trial of the cause, unless such character, capacity or
authority, be denied by a pleading under oath, or by an
affidavit filed therewith. An answer in abatement must
precede, and can not be pleaded with an answer in bar, and
the issue thereon must be tried first and separately. If the
issue be found against the answer, the judgment must be
that the party plead over, and against him for all costs of
the action up to that time.
Sec. 117. A failure or want of consideration, in whole
or in part, may be pleaded to any action, set-oft', or counter
claim upon, or arising out of any specialty bond or deed,
except instruments negotiable by the law merchant, and
negotiated before falling due. (81.)
Sec. 118. In any action or defense, founded upon a
bill or note, or other contract, for the payment of money
a(. a particular place, it shall not be necessary to aver or
prove a demand at the place, but the opposite party may
show a readiness to pay such demand at the proper place.
(82.)
Sec. 119. In pleading a judgment or decision of a
Court, or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient
to allege generally, that the judgment or decision was duly
given or made. If the allegation be denied, the facts con
ferring jurisdiction must be proved on the trial. (83.)
Sec. 120. In pleading the performance of a condition
precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to allege gen
erally, that the party performed all the conditions on his
part. If the allegation be denied, the facts showing a per
formance must be proved on the trial. (84.)
Sec. 121. In pleading a private statute or aright de
rived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such
statute by its title and the day of its approval, and the
Court shall take judicial notice thereof. (85.)
Sec. 122. In an action for libel or slander it shall be
sufficient to state generally that the defamatory matter pub
lished or spoken was of the plaintifff; and if the allegation
be denied, the plaintifff must prove on the trial the facts,
showing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken
of him. (86.)
Sec. 123. In all actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and mitigating circumstances to reduce the
damages, and give either or both in evidence. (87.)
Sec. 124. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading. (88.)
Sec. 125. In an action to recover the possession of
property distrained doing damage, an answer that the de
fendant, or person by whose command he acted, was law
fully possessed of the real property upon which the distress
was made, and that the property distrained was at the time
doing damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth
the title of such real property. (89.)
Sec. 126. In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice be
tween the parties; but when the allegations of a pleading
are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
large or defense is not apparent, the Court may require
le pleading to be made definite and certain by amend
ment. (90.)
Sec 127. Under a mere denial of any allegation, no
vidence shall be introduced, which does not tend to negaive
what the party making the allegation is bound to
trove. (91-)
Sec. 128. All fictions in pleading are abolished, and
lieir use forbidden in the courts of justice in this State.
[92.)
Sec. 129. If an original pleading or paper be lost, or
■ lL, ill 6 lL rn a fu •
withheld by any person, the Court may authorize a copy
thereof to be filed and used instead of the original. (93.)
[Variances and Amendments.]
Sec. 130. No variance, between the allegations in a
pleading and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it
have actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice in
maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. When
ever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
must be proved to the satisfaction of the Court, and it must
be shown in what respect he has been misled, and, there
upon, the Court may order the pleading to be amended on
such terms as may be just. (94).
Sec. 131. Where the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the Court may direct the fact to
be found according to the evidence, or may order an im
mediate amendment without costs. (95.)
Sec. 132. When, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not
in some particular or particulars only, but in its general
scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of vari
ance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
(96.)
Sec. 133. Any pleading may be amended by either
party, of course, at any time, before the pleading is answered.
All other amendments shall be by leave of the
Court. The party amending shall pay the costs of the
leave to amend. When the trial is not delayed by reason
of the amendment, no other costs shall be taxed. When
the amendment causes a delay during any part of the term,
or to another term, the party amending shall pay the costs
of such delay. No cause shall be delayed by reason of an
amendment, excepting only the time to make up issues, but
upon good cause shown by affidavit of the party or his
agent asking such delay. (97.)
Sec. 134. The affidavit shall show distinctly in what
respect the party asking the delay has been prejudiced in
his preparation for trial by the amendment. When the
action is continued for such cause, the party asking the
delay shall file his pleadings at such time as the Court may
direct. (98.)
Sec. 135. The Court may, at any time, in its discretion,
and upon such terms as may be deemed proper, for the
furtherance of justice, direct the name of any party to be
added or struck out, a mistake in name, description, or le
gal effect, or in any other respect, to be corrected, any ma
terial allegation to be inserted, struck out or modified, to
conform the pleadings to the facts proved, when the amend
ment does not substantially change the claim or defense.
The Court may also, in its discretion, allow a party to file
his pleadings after the time limited therefore; and shall re
lieve a party from a judgment taken against him, through
his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect,
and supply an omission in any proceedings on complaint
or motion filed within two years. (99.)
Sec. 136. When the plaintifff is ignorant of the name
o£. tjie defendant, such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly, either before or after service of the
summons. (100.)
Sec. 137. The Court must in every stage of the action
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceed
ings which does not affect the substantial rights of the ad
verse party, and no judgment can be reversed or affected
by reason of such error or defect. (101.)
Sec. 138. The Court may, on motion, allow supplemental pleadings, showing facts which occurred after the
former pleadings were filed. (102.)
[Arrest and Bail.]
Sec. 139. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested
an(j j^jj jQ j^jj^ onjv Upon the conditions and in the man
ner prescribed in this act. (103.)
Sec. 140. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be made by the Court in term time, in which the action is
brought, or by the Clerk thereof, in vacation, at the com
mencement of the action, or at any time before judgment,
when there is filed in the office of such Clerk an affidavit of
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, specifying the plaintifff's
right to recover an existing debt or damages from the de
fendant, and stating that be believes the defendant is about
to leave the State, taking with him property subject to exe
cution, or money or effects which should be applied to the
payment of the plaintifff's debt or damages, with intent to
defraud the plaintifff. (104.)
Sec. 141. The order of arrest shall not be issued until
there has been executed and filed in the office of the Clerk
of such Court, by one or more sufficient sureties of the
plaintifff, to be approved by the Clerk or Court making the
order, a written undertaking to the effect that the plaintifff
shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sus
tain by reason of the arrest, if the order is wrongfully ob
tained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's
claim stated in the affidavit. (105.)
Sec. 142. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered to the Sheriff. It shall state the names of the
parties to the action, the Court in which the action is
brought, and the amount of the plaintifff's claim specified
in the affidavit, and shall require the Sheriff to arrest the
defendant and hold him to bail in the sum of the plain
tiff's claim, with the costs of the action, and to make re
turn of the order on a day to be named therein, with the
recognizance, if any is taken. (106.)
Sec. 143. The Sheriff shall execute the order by arresting
the defendant, and keeping him in custody until dis
charged by law. (107.)
Sec. 144. When an order of arrest and bail is executed,
the Sheriff shall take a recognizance of special bail of some
responsible person, resident of this State, in substance that
the surety acknowledges himself special bail for the de
fendant in the action, which shall be endorsed on the order
of arrest, and signed by the surety, and shall have the same
force and effect of a recognizance of special bail, and be
obligatory as such. (108.)
Sec. 145. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to return
the order of arrest to the office whence it issued, immedi
ately upon taking and approving of the recognizance of
special bail, when bail is taken ; and in all other cases, on
the return day. And in all cases the officer shall indorse
his doings thereon. (109.)
Sec. 146. Any such recognizance of special bail shall
only amount to an undertaking that the defendant will surrender his body, or the money, property and effects, or the
value thereof, held or owned by him, at the time of filing
such affidavit, and in default of such surrender, the surety
in such recognizance shall only be liable for the amount of
the property, monies and effects, which the plaintifff may
show the defendant to have held or owned at the time of
filing such affidavit, exceeding the amount exempt from
execution. (110.)
Sec. 147. When any person shall be committed to
prison on an order of arrest, for want of special bail, he
may sue out a writ of habeas corpus in any Court or before
any Judge of- competent jurisdiction, and on the return
thereof the plaintifff' shall be compelled to show that the
facts alleged in the affidavit, on which the defendant is held
to bail are true, and on failure to do so, the defendant shall
be discharged. (111.)
Sec. 148. When any person is committed for want of
kajj jje gnajj jje nejj jn pr;son> unless he is bailed or other
wise legally discharged, until final judgment in the action
in which he is arrested, and if the judgment be against
him he shall be held for such time thereafter as the Court
shall direct, not exceeding ten days. (112 )
Sec. 149. If the plaintifff" deem the bail insufficient, he
may, at the term to which the writ is returnable, or at any
term thereafter, before final judgment, object to the suffi
ciency of the bail by giving three days' notice of the ob
jection to the Sheriff". (113.)
Sec. 150. At the time specified in such notice, the Court
shall proceed to hear and determine as to the sufficiency of
the bail ; if adjudged insufficient, and other bail, approved
by the Court, is not given, the bail shall not be thereby
discharged, but may be proceeded against by the plaintifff ;
and if he can not recover the amount for which such bail
may have become liable, the Sheriff" shall be liable on his
official bond for the same, or so much as may remain unsat
isfied, and for the costs of the action against the bail.
(114.)
SEC' 151> T"e She"ff sha11 Dot be liab,e t0 the Pontiff
on account of the insufficiency of the bail, if it shall appear
that he acted with due care iu accepting the same. (115.)
Sec. 152. Affidavits of the plaintifff's right to the debt
or damages which he claims, may be made by any person
residing in this or any other State,- Territory or country,
and additional affidavits may be made by other persons,
stating the further grounds necessary to obtain an order for
arrest and bail, and upon filing such affidavits, duly authen
ticated, an order for the arrest and bail may be entered as
in other cases. (116.)
Sec. 153. The bail may be exonerated either by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the State
prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender
to the Sheriff of the county where he was arrested in exe
cution thereof, at any time before final judgment against
the bail or his recognizance. (117.)
Sec. 154. The bail may at any time take a certified
copy of the order of arrest and recognizance, by virtue of
which he may take his principal and deliver him into the
custody of the proper officer. Such copy shall be given
and certified by the Clerk. (118.)
Sec. 155. If the Court to which the order of arrest is
returnable, is in session at the time of the surrender, the
same may be made in open Court, and the Court shall cause
the discharge of the bail from all further liability, to be
entered of record. (119.)
Sec. 156. If the Court is not in session, the surrender
may be made to the Sheriff or keeper of the jail of the
proper county, who shall receive the prisoner and hold him
in custody in like manner as if he had been committed by
virtue of the order of arrest on which he was held to bail.
(120.)
Sec. 157. But the Sheriff shall not be bound to receive
any person so surrendered unless the bail shall deliver to
him a copy of the order of arrest and recognizance, certi
fied by the officer who issued the original order of arrest.
(121.)
Sec. 158. The Sheriff or the keeper of the iail, shall
i *f '
acknowledge the reception of the principal, by an endorsement
on the certified copy of the order of arrest ; and the
surrender shall acquit the bail from all further liability as
special bail. (122.)
Sec. 159. Every defendant surrendered by his bail
mav be bailed as if arrested by the original order of arrest.
(123.)
Sec. 160. When the surrender of the principal is made
after final judgment against him, the bail shall, within ten
days after, cause notice of the time and place thereof, to
be given to the plaintifff or his attorney, if either reside in
the State, which notice shall be served by the Sheriff, who
shall deliver a certified copy of the notice to the keeper of
the jail, on or before the expiration of ten days from the
time of the surrender; but if neither the plaintifff nor his
attorney reside in the State the notice shall be posted up,
ten days in the Clerk's office of the county, and a copyj
the notice, certified by the Clerk, shall be forthwith.
after delivered to the keeper of the jail. (124.)
Sec. 161. When the surrender is made after judj
the prisoner shall be detained in custody; but if the
tiff shall not proceed to charge hi-ni in execution widi
five days after the notice, the defendant shall be discharsl
from custody without any order for that purpose (125.J1
Sec. 162. If any bail shall fail to give the require
notice to the plaintifff or his attorney, and the priucifj
shall be discharged, no proceedings being commenced
charge him in execution, the bail shall remain liable on
own recognizance. (126.)
Sec. 163. Whenever the right of action has accrt
against any special bail, the creditor may at any time withS
two years after final judgment against the principal, anj
not afterwards, maintain an action on the recognizance "
his own name. (127.)
[Claim, and Delivery of Personal Property.']
Sec. 164. When any personal goods are wrongfully
j^ken, or unlawfully detained from the owner or persow
claiming the possession thereof, or when taken on execution
or attachment, are claimed by any person other than the
defendant, the owner or claimant may bring an action for
the possession thereof. (128.)
Sec. 165. The plaintifff may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time before answer, claim the immedi
ate delivery of such property, as provided in this act ; when
a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the
plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, showing :
First. That the plaintifff' is the owner of the property,
or that he is then lawfully entitled to the possession thereof
and particularly describe it.
Second. That the same has not been taken for a tax,
assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an
execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff,
or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
Third. That the property has been wrongfully taken
and is unlawfully detained by the defendant, or is unlaw
fully detained ; and,
Fourth. The estimated value of the property, and in
what county the same is believed to be detained. (129.)
Sec. 166. In all actions for the recovery of the possession
ot personal property upon aihdavit filed as provided
in this act, if the defendant shall fraudulently conceal,
remove, transfer, withhold or refuse to deliver the prop
erty mentioned in the affidavit of the plaintifff or his agent,
with a view to defraud the plaintifff, the Sheriff or officer
charged with the execution of' the order to take such prop
erty into his possession, shall indorse the facts of such con
cealment, removal, transfer, withholding or refusal by said
defendant, upon said order, and make return thereof to the
Court whence its issues. (1.)
Sec. 167. Upon the filing of such return, or applicacation
of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, the Clerk or
Court who issues such order shall issue a summons requir
ing said defendant to appear before the Court at the time
set for the trial of said cause, to show cause why execution
against his body should not issue. (2.)
Sec. i68. Such summons shall be served and returned
in the same manner as other summonses, and, if the defen
dant fail to appear, the trial of the issues shall proceed in
his absence, according to the rule of practice in other
causes. (3.)
Sec. 169. The issue to be tried shall be the truth of
the facts alleged in the plaintifff's affidavit, and the officer's
return indorsed on the order, which issue shall be tried at
the time of the trial of the original suit. (4.)
Sec. 170. If such trial be determined against such defendant,
and he will not forthwith surrender for the benefit
of the plaintifff, the property mentioned in such affidavit,
found to have been concealed, removed, transferred or
•withheld by him, or pay the value thereof into Court, an
execution shall issue forthwith against his body, and he be
arrested and committed to the prison of the county, there
to be confined until duly discharged according to law. (5.)
Sec. 171. When such affidavit is filed with the Clerk,
he shall issue an order for the seizure of the property, and
delivery thereof to the plaintifff. (130.)
Sec. 172. The order shall be directed and delivered to
the Sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to the
action, and the Court in which the action is brought, and
direct the Sheriff to take the property, describing it, and
stating its value, as in the affidavit, and deliver it to the
plaintifff, and direct him to make return of his doings
thereon. (131.)
Sec. 173. The Sheriff shall forthwith proceed to eaj
cute the order, by taking possession of the property
scribed in the affidavit, or so much as can be fouH
and if the defendant, or some person in his behalf,
twenty four hours thereafter, shall execute a written
taking, payable to the plaintifff, with sufficient surety, to
approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that the de
shall safely keep the property, that the same shall n
be in any way injured or damaged, and that he will dM
liver the same to the plaintifff, if judgment should be reJ
dered to that effect, and also that he will pay to the plana
tiff all such sums of money as he may recover in the actioJ
then the Sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant]
But if such undertaking is uot given within the time afore
said, then the Sheriff shall deliver the property to tan
plaintifff, on receiving from him, or some person in his
half, within twenty-four hours thereafter, a written am
taking, payable to the defendant, with sufficient surety,
be approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that the plai
will prosecute his action with effect, and without delay,
and that he will return the property to the defendant^
if return be adjudged by the Court, and that he will
pay to the defendant all such sums of money as may berecovered
in the action, for auy cause whatever, and in
default of the undertaking being given, the property shall
be returned to the defendant, but the action shall not be
dismissed or delayed thereby. And if the property claimed
by the plaintifff shall have a peculiar value, that can not be
compensated by damages, either party, in term time or
vacation, may, by affidavit, upon notice to the other, move
the Judge of the Court in which said cause is pending, to
appoint a receiver, and take possession of the property, anil
keep the same until the termination of the litigation in
the cause, or until the further order of the Court. And
the Judge, upon such application, shall make such order in
the premises as will protect the rights of the parties.
(132.)
Sec. 174. If the property, or any part thereof, be coucealed in a building or enclosure, the Sheriff shall demand
its delivery ; if it shall not be delivered, he shall cause the
building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession, and, if necessary, he may call
to his aid the power of the county. If the Sheriff can
not find the property, or any part thereof, the action shall
not abate, but be prosecuted to final judgment. (133.)
Sec. 175. The Sheriff shall safely keep the property
during the time prescribed by the statute, and shall beal
fed by the Court the necessary expenses for doing so, to
paid by the plaintifff, and taxed in the costs, if the prop
er is recovered by the plaintifff; when it appears by the
Ldavit of the plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, or
the return of the officer, that the property claimed has
en disposed of or concealed, so that the order can not be
ecuted, the Court may compel the attendance of the deadant,
examine him on oath as to the situation of the
operty, and punish a willful obstruction or hinderance of
e execution of the order, and a disobedience of the orrs of the Court in this respect, as in cases of a contempt.
34.)
Sec. 176. When the property is removed to another
aunty after the commencement of the action, an order
lay, at any time before judgment, be directed to such
ounty for the seizure and delivery of the property claimed,
nd several orders to different counties may issue at the
ame time, at the option of the plaintifff, and the costs shall
>e taxed as the Court shall direct ; such order to another
rounty shall be served, and the property be delivered to
the plaintifff, and the order returnable, in the same manner,
xad upon the same terms, as above provided. (135.)
[Injunctions and Restraining Orders i]
Sec. 177. Restraining orders and injunctions may be
granted by the Supreme Court in term time, when neces
sary and proper for the due exercise of the jurisdiction and
powers of such Court, or by any Judge thereof, in vacation
or recess, and by the Circuit Courts in their respective
counties in term time, or by the Judges thereof, in vaca
tion, or by a Master Commissioner, as provided for in section
419 of this act, and the said Courts in term time, or the
Judges thereof, in vacation, or by a Master Commissioner,
as provided for in section 419 of this act, may, in any county
of the circuit, issue restraining orders or injunctions to op
erate in any other county in the Circuit. (136.)
Sec. 178. When it appears by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission
or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance
of which, during the litigation, would produce great in
jury to the plaintifff ; or, when, during the litigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering some act to be
done, in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual, or when such relief, or any part thereof, con
sists in restraining proceedings upon any final order or
judgment, an injunction may be granted to restrain such
act or proceedings, until the further order of the Court,
which may, afterwards, be modified upon motion. And
when it appears in the complaint at the commencement of
the action, or during the pendency thereof, by affidavit,
that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove or dis
pose of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a
temporary injunction may be granted, to restrain the re
moval or disposition of his property. (137.)
Sec. 179. In all applications for an injunction, the
complaint, or so much thereof, as pertains to the acts or
proceedings to be enjoined, shall be verified by affidavit.
The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing
the action, or at any time afterwards before judgment in
that proceeding. (138.)
Sec. 180. No injunction shall be granted until it shall
appear to the Court or Judge granting it that some one or
more of the opposite party concerned has had reasonable
notice of the time and place of making the application, ex
cept that in cases of emergency, to be shown in the com
plaint, the Court may grant a restraining order until notice
can be given and hearing thereon. (139.)
Sec. 181. On the hearing of an application for a restraining
order or temporary injunction, each party may
read affidavits, or documentary or record evidence. (140.)
Sec. 182. Upon the granting or continuing of an injunction, such terms and conditions may be imposed upon
the party obtaining it, as may be deemed equitable. (141.)
Sec. 183. No injunction or restraining order shall be
granted until the party asking it shall enter into a written
undertaking, with surety, to he approved by the Court or
Judge, to the adverse party affected thereby, for the pay
ment of all damages and costs which may accrue by reason
of the injunction or restraining order. (142.)
Sec. 184. When an injunction is granted upon the hearingi
after a temporary restraining order, the plaintifff shall
not be required to enter into a second written undertaking
unless the former shall be deemed insufficient, but the
plaintifff and his surety shall remain liable upon the origi
nal undertaking. (143.)
Sec. 185. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of
j nj unct i on , but the Clerk shall issue a copy of the order of
injunction, duly certified by him, which shall be forthwith
served by delivering the same to the adverse party.
(144.)
Sec. 186. In applications to stay proceedings after
judgment, the plaintifff shall indorse upon his complaint a
release of errors in the judgment whenever required to do
so by the Judge or Court. (145.)
Sec. 187. An order of injunction shall bind every person
and officer restrained from the time he is informed
thereof. (146.)
Sec 188. When notice of the application for an injunction has been given to the adverse party, it shall not be
necessary to serve the order upon him, but he shall be
bound by the injunction as soon as the written undertaking
required by the plaintifff is executed and delivered to the
proper officer. (147.)
Sec. 189. Money collected upon a judgment afterwards
enjoined, remaining in the hands of the collecting officer,
shall be paid to the Clerk of the Court granting the in
junction, subject to the order of the Court. (148.)
Sec. 190. Whenever it shall appear to any Court
granting an order of injunction, or Judge thereof, in vacadon, by affidavit, that any person has willfully disobeyed
the order, after notice thereof, such Court or Judge shall
award an attachment for contempt against the party
charged, or a rule to show cause why it should not issue.
The attachment or rule shall be issued by the Clerk of the
Court, and directed to the Sheriff, and shall be served by
him. (149.)
Sec. 191. The attachment for contempt shall be imnie4iately
served by arresting the party charged, and bringing
him into Court, if in session, to be dealt with as in other
cases of contempt; and the Court shall also take all neces
sary measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff against
damages in the premises. (150.)
Sec. 192. If the Court is not in session, the officer
making the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a
written undertaking, with surety to be approved by the
officer, personally to appear in open Court, on the first day
of the next term thereof, to answer such contempt, and that
he will pay to the plaintifff' all his damages and costs occa
sioned by the breach of the order, and in default thereof
he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until he
shall enter into such written undertaking with surety, or
be otherwise legally discharged. (151.)
Sec. 193. Motions to dissolve or modify injunctions
may be made in open Court, at any time after the adverse
party has had reasonable notice. (152.)
Sec. 194. When an injunction to stay proceedings
after judgment for debt or damages shall be dissolved, the
Court shall award such damages, not exceeding ten per
cent, on the judgment, as the Court may deem right against
the party in whose favor the injunction issued. (153.)
Sec. 195. If an injunction to stay proceedings after
• j . . /» Ii p 1
verdict or judgment in an action lor the recovery 01 real
estate, or the possession thereof, be dissolved, the» damages
assessed against the party obtaining the injunction, shall
include the reasonable rents and profits of the land recov
ered, and all waste committed after granting the injunction.
(154.)
Sec. 196. Upon an order being made, dissolving or
mo(jifying an order of injunction, the plaintifff1 may move
the Court to reinstate the order, and the Court may, in its
discretion, allow the motion, and appoint a time for hearing
the same before the Court, or a time and place for hearing
before some Judge thereof; and, upon the hearing, the
parties may produce such additional affidavits or deposi
tions as the Court shall direct, and the order of injunction
shall be dissolved, modified or reinstated, as the Court or
Judge may deem right. Until the hearing of the motion
to reinstate the order of injunction, the order to dissolveor
modify it shall be suspended. (155.)
[Attachment.]
Sec. 197. The plaintifff", at the time of filing his complaint, or at any time afterwards, may have an attachment
against the property of the defendant, in the cases and in
the manner hereinafter stated :
Where the action is for the recovery of money,
First. Where the defendant, or one of several defend
ants, is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this
State ;
Second. Where the defendant, or one of several defend
ants, is secretly leaving, or has left the State, with intent
to defraud his creditors ; or,
Third. So conceals himself that a summons can not be
served upon him ; or,
I mirth. Is removing or about to remove his property
subject to execution, or a material part thereof, out of this
State, not leaving enough therein to satisfy the plaintifff's
claim; or,
Fifth. Has sold, conveyed or otherwise disposed of his
property subject to execution, or suffered or permitted it to
be sold with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder or delay
his creditors ; or,
Sixth. Is about to sell, convey or otherwise dispose of
his property, subject to execution, with such intent. Pro
vided, That the plaintifff shall be entitled to an attachment
for the causes mentioned in the second, fourth, fifth and
sixth specifications of this section, whether his cause of
action be due or not. (156.)
Sec. 198. No attachment, except for the causes mentioned
in the fourth, fifth and sixth clauses of the preceding section, shall issue against any debtor while his wife and
family remain settled within the county where he usually
resided prior to his absence, if he shall not continue absent
from the State more than one year after he shall [have] ab
sented himself, unless an attempt be made to conceal his
absence. (157.)
Sec. 199. If the wife or family of the debtor shall refuse
or be unable to give an account of his absence, or the
place where he may be found, or shall give a false account
of either, such refusal, inability or false account shall be
deemed an attempt to conceal his absence, within the pro
visions of this act. (158.)
Sec. 200. The plaintifff, or some person in his behalf,
shall make an affidavit showing,
First. The nature of the plaintifff's claim ;
Second. That it is just ;
Third. The amount which he believes the plaintifff
ought to recover ;
Fourth. That there exists in the action some one of the
grounds for an attachment above enumerated. (159.)
Sec. 201. The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall
execute a written undertaking, with sufficient surety, to be
approved by the Clerk, payable to the defendant, to the ef
fect that the plaintifff will duly prosecute his proceeding in
attachment, and will pay all damages which may be sus
tained by the defendant, if the proceedings of the plaintifff
shall be wrongful and oppressive. (J 60.)
Sec. 202. Upon the filing of such affidavit and written
undertaking in the office of the Clerk, he shall issue an ortier
of attachment, which shall be directed and delivered to
the Sheriff. It shall require him to seize and take into his
possession, the property of the defendant in his county not
exempt from execution. (161.)
Sec. 203. Orders of attachment may be issued to the
Sheriff of any other county, and several of them may, at
the option of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time or in
succession ; but the costs only of such as have been exe
cuted in whole or in part shall be recovered against the
defendant unless otherwise directed by the Court. The
plaintifff shall not have judgment in any such action except
in some one of the following cases, viz:
First. When the defendant shall have been personally
served with process; or, »
Second. When property of the defendant shall have
been attached in the county where the action is brought; or
Third. When a garnishee shall have been summoned in
the county where the action is brought, who shall be faund
to be indebted to the defendant, or to have property or as
sets in his hands subject to the attachment, (162.)
Sec. 204. An order of attachment may be issued and
execuj-e(j on Sunday, if the plaintifff will show in his affida
vit that the defendant is. about to abscond on that day, to
the injury of the plaintifff. (163.)
Sec. 205. The Sheriff shall proceed, with the assistance
of a disinterested and credible householder of the county,
to attach the lands and tenements, goods and chattels of
the defendant, subject to execution, and shall, with the as
sistance of the householder, make an inventory and ap
praisement thereof, and return the same with the order.
(164.)
Sec. 206. An order of attachment binds the defendant's
property in the county subject to execution, and becomes a
lien thereon from the time of its delivery to the Sheriff, in
the same manner as an execution. (165.)
Sec. 207. The defendant's personal property shall be
nrst taken under an attachment ; if enough thereof is not
found to satisfy the plaintifff's claim and costs of the action,
then his real estate. If, after an order of attachment is
placed in the hands of the Sheriff, any property of the de
fendant is removed from the county, the Sheriff may pursue
and attach the same in any county within three days after
the removal. (166.)
Sec. 208. Clerks of the Circuit Courts, Sheriffs, Justices
°f tne Peace, Constables and all other officers who
may collect money by virtue of their office, and all execu
tors, administrators, guardians and trustees, shall be subject
to garnishment at the suit of any attachment creditor of the
person who has money, or choses in action, in the hands of
such officer, executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, at
the time of the service of such garnishee process, in the
same manner and to the same extent as other persons are
liable to be garnished in attachment proceedings. (1.)
Sec. 209. The defendant, or other person having posdon
of property attached, may have the same, or any
t thereof, delivered to him, by executing and delivering
Lbe Sheriff, a written undertaking, with surety, to be ap
>ved by the Sheriff, payable to the plaintifff, to the effect
.t such property shall be properly kept and taken care of,
il shall be delivered to the Sheriff on demand, or so much
?reof as may be required to be sold on execution to satisfy
y judgment which may be recovered against him in the
tion, or that he will pay the appraised value of the propty,
not exceeding the amount of the judgment and costs.
68.)
Sec. 210. Whenever any person other than the defendi
ii i • i-ii -if e
it shall claim any property attached, the right of property
ay be tried as in cases of property taken in execution, and
je claimant, having notice of the attachment, shall be
oiind to prosecute his claim as in such cases, or be barred
f his right. (169.)
Sec. 211. The defendant or claimant of any attached i
ty may be required by the Court to attend before it p
give information, on oath, respecting the property.
,170.)
Sec. 212. Goods attached in the hands of a consignee L
shall be .subject to a lien for any debt due him from the s
consignor. (171.)
Sec. 213. If the defendant, or other person in his p
behalf, at any time before judgment, shall execute a writ- t
undertaking to the plaintifff with sufficient surety, to be
approved by the Court, Clerk or Sheriff, to the effect that
the defendant will appear to the action, and will perform
the judgment of the Court, the attachment shall be dis
charged and restitution made of any property taken under
it or the proceeds thereof. (172.)
Sec. 214. When personal property attached is of a per s
>*hable nature, or its keeping" expensive, the Court may !
direct the Sheriff to sell it at public auction upon reasona
ble notice. If the property is liable to immediate damage,
the Sheriff, in vacation, may sell it, by giving ten days no
tice, without an order of Court, and the proceeds of all
«les shall be deposited with the Clerk. (173.)
Sec. 215. The Sheriff shall be allowed by the Court E
[he necessary expenses of keeping the attached property, to f
paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs. (174.)
Sec. 21 G. If, at the time an order of attachment issues, A
any time before or afterward, the plaintifff, or other
"'" ' in his behalf, shall file with the Clerk an affidavit ,
that he has good reason to believe that any person, naming
him, has property of the defendant of any discription in
his possession, or under his control, which the Sheriff can
not attach by virtue of such order ; or that such person is
indebted to the defendant, or has the control or agency of
any property, monies, credits or effects ; or that the de
fendant has any shares or interest in the stock of any asso
ciation or corporation; the Clerk shall issue a summons
notifying such person, corporation or association, to appear
at the ensuing term of the Court, and answer as garnishee
in the action. . The summons shall be directed to the
Sheriff, and served and returned by him in the same man
ner as a summons is served and returned in other cases.
When the summons issues before "an attachment, the affi
davit must show some one of the causes authorizing the
attachment. (175.)
Sec. 217. From the day of the service of the sum
mons, the garnishee shall be accountable to the plaintifff in
the action for the amount of money, property or credits in
his hands, or due and owing from him to the defendant.
(176.)
Sec. 218. It shall be the duty of any officer or agent
of an association or corporation, and of every other person
summoned as a garnishee, when served, or within five days
afterwards, to furnish the Sheriff with a certificate of the
number of shares or rights of the defendants in the stock
of such corporation or association, or a description of the
property held by such corporation, association or person,
belonging [to] or for the benefit of the defendant, or the
amount of the debt owing to the defendant by such asso
ciation, corporation or person, whether due or not, which
certificate shall be returned by the Sheriff with the sum
mons. If such officer, agent or person refuses to do so, he
may be required by the Court to attend before it, and be
examined, on oath, concerning the same, and obedience to
the orders may be enforced by attachment. (177.)
Sec. 219. Whenever any garnishee, being duly sum
moned, fails to appear and make discovery as required by
law, or fails to answer or demur to the matters set forth
against him in the affidavit, or additional complaint or in
terrogatories, such matters may be taken as confessed, or
judgment entered by default, as the case may require ; or
he may be examined under oath touching all the matters
charged in the affidavit, or additional complaint ; and all
such proceedings, pleadings and process, shall be had, ac
cording to the practice in other cases, as shall be necessary
determine the rights of the parties, and render a final
gment. (178.)
Sec. 220. If anv plaintifff, or other person in his behalf,
ii <»i • » i r>t i Jm . • . r . « . . 7
aV file with the Ulerk an affidavit that he tears that the
-nishee will abscond before judgment can be had, with
eat to defraud the plaintifff, and that he verily believes
it the garnishee has monies, things in action, goods,
attels or effects of said defendant in his possession, or is
3ebted to said defendant, the Clerk shall issue an order
arrest against the garnishee, and hold him to bail thereon
iu a civil action. (179.)
Sec. 221. Final judgment shall not be rendered against
garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachent is determined, and if the plaintifff fails to recover
ldgment either against the defendant or the garnishee, the
arnishee shall be discharged and recover his costs. (180.)
Sec. 222. The return of " no property found " upon the
rder of attachment shall not affect the proceedings against
.he garnishee. (181.) '
Sec. 223. If the plaintifff recover judgment against the
itfendant and the garnishee deliver up to the Sheriff before
judgment against him, all the defendant's goods and chat
tels, or other effects in his possession subject to execution,
or an inventory thereof, and pay to the Sheriff or into
Court all monies due from him or belonging to the defend
ant, the costs in the proceeding against the garnishee shall
be paid by the defendant, but if the garnishee shall not ap
pear, or if appearing, shall refuse truly to confess the mat
ter alleged, and on the trial the plaintifff shall recover
judgment against him, or if he admit that he has monies,
credits or effects belonging to the defendant in his hands
and shall refuse to pay or deliver the same as above provi
ded, he shall pay costs. (182.)
Sec. 224. A garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled
in any case to pay or perform any contract in any
other manner, or at any other time, than he would be
bound to do for the defendant in attachment. (183.)
Sec. 225. A garnishee may pay the money owing to
the defendant by him, to the Sheriff, or into Court, and
shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for
monies so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff 's claim. (184.)
Sec. 226. A garnishee, or officer of a corporation,
Summoned as a garnishee, at any time after being served
with the summons five days, may be examined, iu open
Court, on oath, and if it be discovered on such examina
tion, that, at the time or after the service of the summons
upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of any
property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the
Court may order the delivery of such property, and the
payment of any such indebtedness into Court, or the exe
cution of a written undertaking by the garnishee, with
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Court, payable to
the plaintifff, to the effect that the indebtedness shall be
paid or the property- forthcoming as the Court shall direct.
(187.)
Sec. 227. Any creditor of the defendant, upon filing
his affidavit and written undertaking, as hereinbefore re
quired of the attaching creditor, may, at any time before
the final judgment in the suit, make himself a party to the
action, file his complaint, and prove his claim or demand
against the defendant, and may have any person summoned
as garnishee, or held to bail, who has not before been sum
moned or held to bail, and propound interrogatories to the
garnishee, and enforce answers thereto, in like manner, as
the creditor who is plaintifff (18(5.)
SEC. 228. A dismissal of his action or proceedings in
attachment by the first attaching creditor, shall not operate
as a dismissal of the action or proceedings of any subse
quent attaching creditor. (187.)
Sec. 229. Any defendant against whom an order of ati
i • i r» • i
tachment has been issued may, after appearing to the ac
tion, move to have the attachment discharged and restitu
tion awarded of any property taken under it ; but an ap
pearance to the action shall not operate to discharge the
attachment, unless a written undertaking be filed as re
quired in section 213. If the defendant appear and judg
ment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and any part
thereof remain unsatisfied, after exhausting the property
attached, such judgment shall be deemed a judgment
against the defendant personally, and shall have the same
force and effect as other judgments, and execution shall
issue thereon accordingly, for the collection of such residue.
If the plaintifff's undertaking be insufficient, he shall have
a reasonable time to rile an additional one. (188 )
Sec. 230. If the judgment in the action is rendered for
the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the
property attached, or its proceeds returned to him. (189.)
Sec. 231. If judgment in the action be rendered for
the plaintifff, or one or more of several plaintifffs, and suffi
cient proof be made o.f the goods, chattels, rights, credits,,
monies and effects in the possession of the garnishee, the
Court shall also give judgment in favor of the plaintifff or
creditors against the garnishee, or the property of the de
fendant, or both, as the case may require, which may be
enforced by execution. (190.)
Sec. 232. After judgment for the plaintifff, or one or
more of several plaintifffs, property attached and remaining
unsold may be sold on execution, as in other cases. (191.)
Sec. 233. The money realized from the attachment
and the garnishees shall, under the direction of the Court,
after paying all costs and expenses, be paid to the several
creditors, in proportion to the amount of their several
claims as adjusted, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to
the defendant (192.)
Sec. 234. Every defendant shall be entitled to an
action on the written undertaking of the plaintifff or creditor, by whose proceedings in attachment he shall have
been aggrieved, if it shall appear that the proceedings were
wrongful and oppressive, and he shall recover damages at
the discretion of the jury. (193 )
Sec. 235. In all actions in the name of the State of Incliana,
or of any person, agent or officer, for the use of the
State, if process be returned that any defendant' is not
found, an order of attachment may be issued and proceed
ings had in like manner, as in other cases, without filing
any affidavit or written undertaking. (194 )
Sec. 236. When an order of attachment is fully e Xecuted
or discharged, the Sheriff shall return the same, with
his proceedings thereon, to the Court. (195.)
Sec. 237. Attachments against the goods and chattels,
rights, credits, monies and effects of defendants may be
issued in cases contemplated in the foregoing provisions
upon any claim within the jurisdiction of a Justice of the
Peace, upon filing with the justice an affidavit, as pre
scribed in this article, and the justice shall perform the du
ties required of the Court and the Clerk thereof; and the
Constable shall perform the duties required of the Sheriff
iu the above provisions. The Constable shall return the
order of attachment within ten days with his doings
thereon, and in case where a summons has not been served
and property has been attached, the justice shall give three
weeks notice of the attachment in some newspaper published
iu the county, if any is published therein; if not, then by
posting up written notice thereof in three of the most pub
lic places in the township, and fix the day of trial at the ex
piration of such notice. (196.)
Sec. 238. If the defendant does not appear and give
bond for the release of the property attached, before the
day of trial, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine the cause, and in case judgment is given against
defendant, he shall order the property to be sold to
the judgment, according to the provisions of this
(197.)
Sec. 239. Garnishees may be summoned, and the i
proceedings had before the justice, as provided in hi
Courts. (198.)
Sec. 240. When any suit is commenced before a Ji
0I> the Peace, and an attachment is also issued by said ju
tice in the same action against the property of the defen
dant, any person who shall have a claim against said de
fendant of a larger amount than the jurisdiction given to
Justices of the Peace, may file the same with the Justice
of the Peace under the attachment, and if any such clai
is filed, the Justice of the Peace shall immediately cert ifV
the cause, with all the papers belonging to the same, to t!
Circuit Court of the county wherein said suit was 90s
menced, and the Clerk of said Court to which the cause 1certified,
shall docket the same, and the said Court shf
proceed with such cause in the same manner as if it had"
been commenced in said Court. (1.)
Sec. 241. If any person shall file a claim before the
Justice of the Peace, as stated in the preceding section, and
shall, on the trial in the Circuit Court, fail to establish his
claim to an amount sufficient to entitle him to recover costs
in such Court, according to the provisions of law now in
force, then, and in that event, he may recover judgment
for his claim, if proved, but shall pay all costs that accrue
in consequence of such transfer; but, if he shall recover
judgment to an amount sufficient to entitle him to recover
costs, then, and in that event, the attachment defendant
shall pay all costs to each attachment plaintifff that shall
recover judgment. (2.)
Sec. 242. Hereafter no Court in this State shall have
or entertain jurisdiction in any action of attachment, garnishment or supplementary proceeding, when the plaintifff
and principal defendant are both non-residents of this
State, and the money sought to be reached by such attach
ment, garnishment or supplementary proceedings, is the
personal earnings or wages due or owing to the principal
defendant from any person or corporation doing business in
this State. (1.)
Sec. 243. The wages of all persons in the employ of
any person or corporation, shall be exempt from garnish
ment, and proceedings supplemental to execution in the
hands of such person or corporation, so long as such era
oye remains in such employment, not exceeding one
ontli's wages at any one time. (1.)
Sec. 244. That anv person or corporation in debt for
J * . _ , r . A
ages, as in section 243 provided, may, at any time alter
?ing served with a garnishee summons, pay to any such
nploye the amount of wages exempted by section 243 of
lis act, and such payment shall discharge such garnishee
ifendant from liability for the amount so paid, as effectally
as if paid before the issuing of such summons. (2.)
[Receivers and Deposits in Court.']
Sec. 245. A receiver may be appointed by the Court,
r the Judge thereof in vacation, in the following cases :
First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any prop
erty or fund to his claim.
Second. In actions between partners, or persons jointly
interested in any property or fund.
Third. In all actions when it is shown that the prop
erty, fund or rent, and profits in controversy, is in danger
of being lost, removed or materially injured.
Fourth. In actions by a mortgagee for the foreclosure
of a mortgage, and the sale of the mortgaged property,
when it appears that such property is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured; or when such property
is not sufficient to discharge the mortgage debt, to secure
the application of the rents and profits accruing before a
sale can be had.
Fifth. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is in
solvent, or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has for
feited its corporate rights.
Sixth. To protect or preserve, during the time allowed
tor redemption, any real estate or interest therein sold on
execution or order of sale, and to secure to the person entitled thereto the rents and profits thereof.
Seventh. And in such other cases as may be provided
by law; or where, in the discretion of the Court, or the
Judge thereof in vacation, it may be necessary to secure
ample justice to the parties. (199.)
Sec. 246. No party or attorney, or other person inter^ted in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
(200.) FF
Sec. 247. Before entering upon his duties the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or
more sureties, approved by the Court, or Judge thereof in
vacation, execute a written undertaking, payable to such
person as the Court, or the Judge thereof in vacation, shall
direct, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the du
ties of receiver iu the action and obey the orders of the
Court or Judge thereof. (201.)
Sec. 24S. When it is admitted by the pleading or ex
amination of a party that he has in his possession or under
his control any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to an
other party, the Court, or the Judge thereof in vacation,
may order the same to be deposited in Court or with the
Clerk thereof, in vacation, or delivered to such party, with
or without security, subject to the further order of the
Court or the Judge thereof. (202.)
Sec. 249. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a
Court, or the Judge thereof in vacation, shall have ordered
the deposit or delivery of money, or other thing, and the
order is disobeyed, the Court, or the Judge, besides punish
ing the disobedience, as for contempt, may make an order
requiring the Sheriff to take the money or thing, and de
posit it or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the
Court or Judge thereof. (203.)
Sec. 250. Money deposited or paid into Court, or with
the Clerk thereof, in an action, shall not be loaned out,
unless with the consent of all the parties having an inter
est in, or making claim to the same. " (204.)
Sec. 251. The receiver shall have power, under con
trol of the Court, or Judge thereof in vacation, to bring
and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the
property, to receive rents, collect debts, in his own name,
and generally to do such acts respecting the property, as
the Court or Judge thereof may authorize. (205.)
Sec 252. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, the Court, on mo
tion, may order the defendant to satisfy that part of the
claim, and may enforce the order by execution. (206.)
Sec. 253. Receivers shall not be appointed, either in
term or vacation, in any case, until the adverse party shall
have appeared, or shall have hud reasonable notice of the
application for such appointment, except upon sufficient
cause shown by affidavit.
Sec. 254. In all cases hereafter commenced or now
pending in any of the Courts of this State, in which a re
ceiver may be appointed or refused, the party aggrieved
may, within ten days thereafter, appeal from the decision
of the Court to the Supreme Court, without awaiting the
final determination of such case, and in cases where a re
ceiver shall be or has been appointed, upon the appellant
filing an appeal bond with sufficient surety, in such sums
as may have been required of such receiver, conditioned for
the due prosecution of such appeal, and the payment of all
costs or damages that may accrue to any officer or person
by reason thereof, the authority of such receiver shall be
suspended until the final determination of such appeal.
(2.)
[Change of Venue.,]
Sec. 255. The Court in term, or the Judge thereof in
vacation, shall change the venue of any civil action upon
the application of either party made upon affidavit showing
one or more of the following causes :
First. That the Judge has been engaged as counsel in
the cause, prior to his election or appointment as Judge, or
is otherwise interested in the cause, or,
Second. That the Judge is of kin to either party, or,
Third. That the opposite party has an undue influence
over the citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches
to the applicant, or to his cause of action or defense, on
account of local prejudice, or,
Fourth. When the county is a party to the suit, or
Fifth. Showing to the satisfaction of the Court that the
•convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the chauge, or,
Sixth. That the Judge of the Court wherein such action
is pending, is a material witness for the party applying for
such change, or,
Seventh. When either party shall make and file au affi
davit of the bias, prejudice or interest of the Judge, before
whom the said cause is pending. (207.)
Sec. 256. When a change of venue is directed for any
of the causes mentioned in the third, fourth and fifth specifications
of the preceding section, the Court or Judge shall
designate the county to which the venue shall be changed,
which may be in the same or in an adjoining circuit, as may
be deemed best for the furtherance of justice, and shall pre
scribe the time within which the applicant shall pay the
costs of the change, and the Clerk of the Court in which
the suit is pending, as soon as the costs of the change are
paid, shall forthwith transmit all the papers and a transcript
of all the proceedings to the Clerk of the Court of the
county to which the venue is changed, and the Clerk of
the proper Court shall receive the papers and transcript,
giving a receipt therefore, and docket the action in its order
among the other causes of the Court ; 'and the action shall
stand for trial at the first term, and shall be tried or other
wise disposed of in the same manner as if the cause had
originated in that Court. If the party fail to pay the costs
of the change within the time prescribed by the Court, he
shall be taxed with all the costs made in the case up to the
time of such failure, and shall not be entitled to a change
of venue from the county. Only one change of venue
shall be granted to the same party from the county, and
only one from the Judge. (208.)
Sec. 257. When the change of venue is granted for
any of the causes named in the first, second, sixth or sev
enth specifications mentioned in the above section, the
Court or Judge shall call a Judge of any Circuit, Superior
or other Court of general jurisdiction, or any Judge of the
Supreme Court, to preside in such case, and try the same ;
or, if it shall be difficult, in the opinion of the Court, for
any cause, to procure the attendance of such Judge, the
Court, in order to prevent delay, may appoint any compe
tent and disinterested attorney of this State, in good stand
ing, to act as Judge in such cause, who, if he consent to
serve, shall be qualified as other Judges, and his appoint
ment and oath shall be filed with the Clerk and entered on
the order book ; and he shall have power to hear and de
termine said cause until the same is finally disposed of, or
change the venue thereof in proper cases.
Sec 258. When a Judge is called upon to preside in
^ne pjace 0f tne regular Judge, either at a regular or an ad
journed term, whether selected from the bench or bar, he
shall be allowed the sum of five dollars per day for the time
actually served, and in going to and returning, to be paid
as follows : On the presentation of an order made by the
Court for the allowance, specifying the time of service, sup
ported by an affidavit of the special Judge, that he actually
served such time, and an affidavit of the regular Judge, if
any, stating the reason for the services of such special Judge,
the same shall be paid out of the county treasury for the
time being, for which the county shall have credit on set
tlement of the Treasurer with the State : Provided, That
in all cases where a special Judge shall be called, the com
pensation paid as herein provided, shall be deducted by the
Auditor of State from the pay of such regular Judge, except
when such special Judge is called to preside in cases on
change of venue, or when such regular Judge shall have a
pecuniary interest in, be a party to, or be related to any
Earty to said suit by blood, or by marriage, or may have
eeu of counsel in' any such cause pending, or may be absent
on account of serious illness of himself or family.
Sec. 259. No change of venue shall be granted in vacation, unless the opposite party has had ten days notice.
(209.)
Sec. 260. When the business pending in any of the
Courts of this State shall remain undisposed of at the close
of any term of Court, the Judge may adjourn the Court to
any other time in vacation, of which notice shall be pub
lished in some newspaper of general circulation in the
county, and at such adjourned time proceed with the busi
ness of the Court, as a part of the regular term of said
Court at which the adjournment was ordered, and all par
ties, witnesses, jurors and officers shall attend as they were
required to do at the regular term. Where changes of
venue are taken from the presiding Judge, or he is other
wise incompetent to sit in causes, all such cases, as require
some other Judge to try the same, may be set for trial at
such adjourned term, with all other causes, and such ad
journed term may be had to try causes on change of venue
only, or any special cases only, may be set for any ad
journed term, and such adjourned term may be held for the
transaction of business during the pleasure of the Court
while the business requires it, but the Judge shall not be
precluded from fixing any case for trial during any regular
term when the venue is changed from the Judge. (1.)
Sec. 261. If, during any session of Court, by reason of
death, sickness or other casualty, any Judge shall be prevented
from presiding, so that the Court will lapse, and it
at any term of Court the Judge shall fail to attend, or dur
ing the terra shall fail to appear for any period of three
days the Sheriff may adjourn the Court from day to day,
and on failure to so appear during the term, the Clerk,
Sheriff and Auditor, and in case of the absence of either,
either two, with the Recorder of the county, may elect any
competent and reputable attorney to act as Judge, who, if
he accept, shall qualify as other Judges, and his appoint
ment, with the reason therefore, and his oath shall be spread
on the order book, and such Judge, so selected, may pre
side until the return of the regular Judge, or in case of
death, until his successor be named ; and in any case of
vacancy during term, or if the Judge is required to be ab
sent during term, such appointment may be made until a
successor shall be named by the proper authority. (3.)
Sec. 262. Should it happen that any adjourned term of
Court presided over by a Judge appointed for the purpose,
be extended so as to include the time set apart for the
Court in any other county of that cir'cuit, the resident
Judge may proceed to hold the Court in such other county
while such adjourned term is being held, and should the
resident Judge be presiding at an adjourned term, and the
trial of any cause should extend the term so as to reach into
the time for Court in any other county of the circuit, the
trial may be concluded, and the Sheriff in such other
county shall adjourn the court from day to day until the
trial of such cause is concluded, and the appearance of the
presiding Judge of said Court, unless he shall not appear
by the end of the third day, in which case a Judge may be
selected by the Clerk, Sheriff and Auditor, as in section
261 of this act is provided, to preside until the appearance
of the resident Judge. (6.)
[ Witnesses.]
Sec. 263. The Clerk of the proper Court shall issue a
summons for witnesses upon the application of any party to
the action. The summons may be served by the party or
any person, or by the Sheriff. The party or any other
person than the Sheriff, shall not be entitled to fees for the
service. When a summons is served' by the Sheriff, his
return is proof of the service. When served by any other
person, the service must be shown by affidavit. (229.)
Sec. 264. Where a summons from any Court of this
State, for a witness, can not be served by reading, on ac
count of the temporary absence of such witness from his
last usual place of residence within the jurisdiction of the
officer having such process, or when such witness so con
ceals himself within such jurisdiction that such process can
not be read to him, the same may be served by leaving a
copy thereof, certified to be a true one, by such officer at
such residence ; but in no case shall such service by copy
be made when such officer has reasonable cause to believe
that such witness has removed his residence without such
jurisdiction. (1.)
SEC. 265. In no case shall an attachment issue against
a witness upon whom such service by copy only has been
made, until the party applying therefore, or his attorney,
shall make affidavit in the Court from which it is sought to
be issued, that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does
believe, that the witness against whom the summons issued
has know-ledge of the service thereof by copy in time to
have obeyed its command. (2.)
Sec. 266. The summons shall be issued and attested by
the Clerk without seal, and one summons shall include all
the witnesses required at the same time, residing in the
same county. (230.)
Sec. 267. If any party summons more than three wit,
« * J .,1 i
nesses to prove the same tact, he shall pay the costs occasioned
by the additional number of witnesses, unless the
Court shall otherwise order. (231.)
Sec. 268. Witnesses residing in the county where the
Court is held shall be compelled to attend in obedience to
the summons, without payment or tender of fees being first
made. (232.)
Sec. 269. A witness shall not be obliged to attend before a Court or Judge out of the county where he resides,
unless his legal fees for traveling to and from the Court,
and one day's attendance are paid or tendered before or at
the time of the service of the summons. (233.)
Sec. 270. The attendance of all witnesses when duly
summoned, and to whom fees have been paid or tendered,
in cases required by law, may be enforced by attachment.
(234.)
Sec. 271. At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness attending a trial out of the county in
which he resides, shall be entitled to demand and receive
the legal fees for that day in advance. If not thus paid, he
is not compelled to attend or remain as a witness. (235.)
Sec. 272. Before testifying, every witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. The mode of administering an oath shall be such as
may be most consistent with, and binding upon the con
science of the person to whom the oath may be adminis
tered. (236.)
Sec. 273. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret truly
whenever necessary, and they shall receive the same fees
and mileage as witnesses (237.)
Sec. 274. All persons, whether parties to or interested
in the suit, shall be competent witnesses in a civil action or
proceeding, except as herein otherwise provided.
Sec. 275. The following persons shall not be oompe..
° r r
tent witnesses :
First. Persons insane at the time they are offered as
witnesses, whether they have been so adjudged or not.
Second. Children under ten years of age, unless it ap
pears that they understand the nature and obligation of an
oath.
Third. Attorneys, as to confidential communieatioE
made to them in the course of their professional businea
and as to advice given in such cases.
Fourth. Physicians, as to matter communicated to then
as such, by patients, in the course of their professional buss
ness, or advice given in such cases.
Fifth. Clergymen, as to confessions or admissions mad
to them in course of discipline enjoined by their respectrt
churches. m
Sixth. Husband and wife, as to communications mat
to each other.
Sec. 276. In suits or proceedings in which an execute
or administrator is a party, involving matters which M
curred during the lifetime of the decedent, where a judg
ment or allowance may be made or rendered for or agaiuj
the estate represented by such executor or administrator
any person who is a necessary party to the issue or recorc
whose interest is adverse to such estate, shall not be a com
petent witness as to such matters against such estate : Fny
vided, however, That in cases where a deposition of suet
decedent has been taken, or he has previously testified astn
the matter, and his testimony or deposition can be used as
evidence for such executor or administrator, such adverse
party shall be a competent witness for himself, but only as
to any matters embraced in such deposition or testimony.
®EC' ' ^n a^ suits by or against heirs or devisees,
foun(jeci ou & contract; witu or demand against the ancestor
to obtain title to, or possession of, property, real or per
sonal, of, or in right of, such ancestor, or to affect the same
in any manner, neither party to such suit shall be a compel
tent witness as to any matter which occurred prior to tiei
death of the ancestor,
Sec. 278. When in any case an agent of a decedenti
shall testify on behalf of an executor, administrator or
heirs, concerning any transaction as having been had hy<
him as such agent, with a party to the suit, his assignor oq
grantor, and in the absence of the decedent, or if any wifcd
ness shall, on behalf of the executor, administrator or heirs,
testify to any conversation or admission of a party to the
suit, his assignor or grantor, as having been had or made
in the absence of the deceased, then the party against whom.!
such evidence is adduced, his assignor or grantor, shall be
competent to testify concerning the same matter. No per
son who shall have acted as an agent in the making or
continuing of a contract with any person who may have
died, shall be a competent witness, in any suit, upon, or
involving, such contract, as to matters occurring prior to
the death of such decedent, on behalf of the principal to
such contract, against the legal representatives, or heirs of
the decedent, unless he shall be called by such heirs or legal
representatives. And in such case he shall be a competent
witness, only as to matters concerning which he is interro
gated by such heirs or representatives. When, in any
case, a person shall be charged with unlawfully taking or
detaining personal property, or having done damage thereto,
and such person by his pleading shall defend on the ground
that he is executor, administrator, guardian or heir, and as
such has taken or detains the property, or has done the
acts charged, then no person shall be competent to testify
who would not be competent if the person so defending
were the complainant ; but when the person complaining
can not testify, then the party so defending shall also be
excluded.
Sec. 279. When the husband or wife is a party, and
not a competent witness in his or her own behalf, the other
shall also be excluded, except that the husband shall be a
competent witness in a suit for the seduction of the wife,
but she shall not be competent.
Sec. 280. In all cases in which executors, administrators, heirs or devisees are parties, and one of the parties to
the suit shall be incompetent, as hereinbefore provided, to
testify against them, then, the assignor or grantor of a
party, making such assignment or grant voluntarily, shall
be deemed a party adverse to the executor or administrator,
heir or devisee, as the case may be : Provided, however,
That in all cases referred to in the preceding sections, the
objection to the competency of such witnesses may be waived.
Or the Court may, in its discretion, require any party to a
suit or other person to testify, and any abuse of such dis
cretion shall be reviewable upon appeal.
Sec. 281. In all actions by an executor or administrator,
on contracts assigned to the decedent, when the assignor is alive, and a competent witness in the cause, the
executor or administrator, and the defendant or defendants,
shall be competent witnesses as to all matters which oc
curred between the assignors and the defendant or defen
dants, prior to notice of such assignment.
Sec. 282. A witness who is an expert in any art, science,
trade, profession or mystery, may be compelled to
to appear and testify to an opinion as such expert, in rela
tion to any matter, whenever such opinion is material evi
dence, relevant to an issue on trial before a Court or jury,
without payment or tender of compensation, other than
the per diem and mileage allowed by law to witnesses,
under the same rules and regulations by which he can be
compelled to appear and testify to his knowledge of facts
relevant to the same issue. (1.)
Sec. 283 No want of belief in a Supreme Being, or
in the Christian religion, shall render a witness incompe
tent. But the want of such religious belief may be shown
upon the trial. In all questions affecting the credibility of
a witness his general moral character may be given in evi
dence. (242.)
Sec. 284. Any fact which might heretofore be shown
to render a witness incompetent, may be hereafter shown to
affect his credibility. (243.)
Sec. 285. The party producing a witness shall not be
allowed to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character,
unless it was indispensable that the party should produce
him, or in case of manifest surprise, when the party shall
have this right ; but he may, in all cases, contradict him by
other evidence, and by showing that he has made state
ments different from his present testimony. (244.)
[Impeachment of Witnesses in Certain Cases.]
Sec. 286. When a witness, whether a party to the rec
ord or not, is cross-examined to lay the foundation for his
impeachment by proof of an act or statement inconsistent
with his testimony, and is asked if he did not do the act or
make the statement, and he answers that he does not recol
lect having done the act or made the statement, the party
thus laying the foundation for impeachment shall have the
right to introduce evidence of the act or statement in the
same manner as if the witness had answered that he had
not done the act or made the statement. (1.)
[Depositions and Written Evidence.]
Sec 287. Depositions of witnesses, taken within or
without the State, may be taken according to the regula
tions hereinafter provided, before any Judge, Justice of the
Peace, Notary Public, Mayor or Recorder of a city, Clerk
of a Court of record, or commissioner appointed by the
Court to take depositions, but depositions shall not be
taken before any person being of kin to either party or in
terested in the action. (245.)
Sec. 288. A party wishing to take depositions shall give
not;ce f0 jjie adverse party, if there be only one person; if
there be several, to any one of them who is a real party in
interest, his agent or attorney. Such notice shall specify :
First. The cause or matter in which the deposition is
to be used.
r Second. The Court or tribunal in which the trial is to
be had.
Tfiird. The time and place of taking the deposition,
and the names of the witnesses. (246.)
Sec. 289. The adverse party shall be allowed a reasonable
time to travel from his usual place of abode to the
place of taking the deposition, by the ordinary route of
travel, exclusive of the day of service, the day of taking
the deposition, and intervening Sundays. If served on an
attorney or agent, a reasonable time shall be allowed him
to communicate the same to the party. (247.)
Sec. 290. The notice may be served in the same manner,
and by any person authorized to serve a summons for
a witness. If neither the party, nor his agent or attorney
reside in this State, the notice may be filed in the Clerk's
office, or published three weeks successively in the county
in which the suit is pending. (248.)
Sec. 291. In all actions, the Court may order the taking
of depositions, whenever deemed necessary to determine the rights of the parties, or to expedite the trial of
causes, and may, if necessary for that purpose, order a con
tinuance until the next term. (249.)
Sec. 292. In all actions, depositions may be taken by
either party, in vacation or term time, at any time after
service of summons, without order of Court therefore.
They may be used on the trial of all issues, in any action in
the following cases :
First. When the witness does not reside in the county,
or in a county adjoining the one in which the trial is to be
held, or is absent from the State.
Second. When the deponent is so aged, infirm or sick,
as not to be able to attend the Court, or other place of trial,
or is dead.
Third. When the depositions have been taken by
agreement of parties, or by the order of the Court trying
the cause.
Fourth. When the deponent is a State or county officer,
or a Judge, or a practicing physician, or attorney at law,
and the trial is to be had in any county in which the
deponent does not reside. In either of the foregoing cases,
the attendance of the witness can not be enforced.
Fifth. When notice is given fixing the time of taking
any deposition on a day in term time, the Court may, if in
session, or the Judge thereof in vacation, on notice given
by the adverse party of the time and place of hearing tfaj
motion, fix another day for such taking, and the Court
the hearing of such motion, may fix the time for such tak«
ing, from which there shall be no appeal. (250.)
Sec. 293. A witness is not obliged to attend for
ination upon a deposition in any other county than that
his residence, but may consent to do so. (251.)
Sec. 294. No deposition shall be read in evidence
the trial of a cause, if at that time the witness is produ
in Court, unless the deposition has been taken by the a
ment of the parties, or by the order of the Court. (252.)
Sec. 295. The officer taking the deposition shall haw
power to summon and compel the attendance of witnesses^
In case of the refusal of a witness to attend or testify,
fact shall be reported by the officer to any Circuit or Su[
rior Court of the county, or the Judge thereof, and su
Court or Judge shall order such witness to attend and t
tify, and on failure or refusal to obey such order, such wit
ness shall be dealt with as for a contempt. (253.)
Sec. 296. The provisions of the last section shall ex
tend to all officers and commissioners authorized to tak&j
depositions in this State, to be read in the Courts of other ^
States or countries. (254.)
Sec. 297. The deponent shall first be sworn by the offi
cer to testify to the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth, relating to the cause or matter for which the de
position is to be taken ; and he shall then be examined by
the party producing him, and then by the adverse party,
and by the officer or parties afterwards, if they see cause.
(255.)
Sec. 298. The deposition shall be written down by the
officer, or by the deponent, or by some disinterested /per
son, in the presence, and under the direction of the officer,
and after the same has been carefully read to or by the de
ponent, it shall be subscribed by him. (256.)
Sec. 299. The officer shall annex a certificate to the
deposition, stating the following facts:
First. That the deponent was sworn according to law;
Second. By whom the deposition was written ; and if
written by the deponent, or some disinterested person, that
it was written in the presence, and under the direction of
the officer;
Third. Whether or not the adverse party attended;
Fourth. The time and place of taking the deposition,
and the hours between which the same was taken ; and the
officer shall sign and attest the certificate, and seal the same,
if he have a seal of office. (257.)
Sec. 300. The officer taking the deposition shall seal
• • •
up the same in a sufficient paper envelope, and direct the
same to the Clerk of the Court in which the action is pend
ing, indorsing on the envelope the names of the parties and
of the witnesses whose depositions are inclosed. (258.)
Sec. 301. When a deposition is offered to be read in
evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the Court
that the cause for taking and reading it, still exists. (259.)
Sec. 302. When a deposition is to be taken within or
without the State, but within the United States, no commission
shall be necessary for taking the deposition.
When taken out of the United States, the Clerk shall,
upon the request of the party taking the deposition, issue
a commission to the officer or commissioner designated to
take the deposition. No order of Court or affidavit shall
be necessary to authorize the issuing of the commission.
(260.)
Sec. 303. When the commission contains the name of
the officer before whom the deposition is to be taken, his
attestation, officially, certifying the same, shall be sufficient;
but, if the commission do not specify the name of the of
ficer, and he have no official seal, his certificate shall be
authenticated by the certificate and seal of the Clerk or
prothonotary of any Court of record of the county in
which the officer exercises the duties of his office. (261.)
Sec. 304. When depositions are to be taken in a foreign country, they shall be taken pursuant to an order of
the Court under a commission, with such reasonable no
tice of the time and place of taking the same as the Court
shall require, and they shall be certified and returned by
the commissioner in such manner as the Court shall direct.
(262.)
Sec. 305. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence,
must be filed in Court at least one day before the
time at which the cause in which the deposition is to be
used, stands on the docket for trial; or, if filed afterwards,
and claimed to be used on the trial, the adverse party shall
be entitled to a continuance, at the costs of the party filing
the deposition, upon showing good cause by affidavit.
(236.)
Sec. 306. Depositions, after being filed, may be published
by the Clerkrat the request of either party, after
giving the other, his agent or attorney, reasonable notice of
the time of publication, or they may be published by order
of the Court on the motion of either party. (264.)
Sec. 307. Objections to the competency of a deponent,
or to the propriety of any questions proposed to him or
answers given by him, may be made at the time of taking
his deposition, or in Court, whether made at the taking of
the deposition or not. (265.)
Sec. 308. All objections to the validity of any deposi
tion, or its admissability in evidence, shall be made before
entering upon the trial ; not afterwards. But any deposition
after the commencement of the trial, may be suppressed, it
any matter which is not disclosed in the deposition appears,
which is sufficient to authorize such suppression. (266.)
Sec. 309. When an action has been dismissed, and an
other action has been commenced for the same cause, the
depositions taken in the first action may be used in the sec
ond, or any other action between the parties, or their as
signees or representatives for the same cause; but it must
appear that the depositions have been duly filed in the
Court where the previous cause was pending, and have re
mained on file from the time the action was dismissed until
the time at which it was proposed to use them. (267.)
Sec. 310. Whenever any person shall make affidavit
before any Circuit or Superior Court, or Judge thereof, or
Clerk of the Court, that such person expects to be made a
party in any action thereafter to be commenced, and that
the testimony of the affiant or any other person, whether
residing within or out of the State, to be named in the
affidavit, is material and necessary to the prosecution or
defense thereof, the Court or officer before whom the affi
davit is made, shall order reasonable notice to be given to
the party expected to be adverse to the applicant, or to his
attorney, that on the day and at the place in such notice to
be expressed, the witness will be examined conditionally
before such officer as shall be specified in the order. (268.)
Sec. 311. Upon proof that the notice has been given,
either by personal service, or advertisement, at least three
weeks successively in some newspaper published in the
proper county, or the one most convenient thereto (when
the person to be notified is not an inhabitant of the State),
being made to the officer authorized to take the testimony,
he shall proceed to take and certify, seal up and return the
depositions according to the rules provided for other depo
sitions in this act. (269.)
Sec. 312. Every affidavit and order, and every depo
sition so taken and certified, shall, within thirty days after
the deposition is taken, be filed in the office of the Clerk
of the proper Court, of the county where the subject mat
ter of such expected suit may be situated. The Clerk
shall file said deposition, and it shall remain sealed until
published by order of the Court after commencement of
such expected action. (270.)
Sec. 313. Any deposition which has heretofore been
taken and filed for the purpose of perpetuating testimony,
in pursuance of any existing or former statute of this
State, as well as any deposition which may hereafter be
taken and filed to perpetuate testimony may, at any time,
either before or after the commencement of the action, in
anticipation of which such deposition may have been taken,
be published by order of the Court in the office of whose
Clerk the same may be filed, on the motion of any person
or party interested in the preservation of the testimony,
and such deposition, with all the accompanying affidavits,
orders, notices and other documents, shall be directed by
such Court, to be entered of record, in the order book of
such Court, at the cost of the party making such motion,
and such record shall contain a statement or recital of the
date of the filing of such deposition. (2.)
Sic. 314. The record of any deposition recorded under
the provisions of the last section, and copies of such record,
duly certified, may be used as evidence, whenever and
wherever the original deposition might be used. (3.)
Sec. 315. Upon proof of the death, insanity or absence
from the State of such witness, or inability by reason of age
or infirmity to attend, the deposition or a certified copy
thereof by the Clerk of the Court where the same is filed,
shall be admitted as evidence in any Court in this State, in
any cause between the parties named in the affidavit, or in
any cause between persons claiming under either of said
parties, and shall have like effect as if the witness had been
personally present, and given oral testimony therein, saving
the right of exception in all cases on account of the in
competency of the witness, or of any part of the testimony
contained in the deposition. (271.)
Sec. 316. An unimportant deviation from any direction
relative to taking depositions, shall not cause any deposition
to be excluded where no substantial prejudice would be
done to the opposite party. (272.)
Sec. 317. When a party shall, in response to a notice
to take depositions orally, attend at the time and place, by
himself or attorney, and the deposition shall not be taken,
he shall, upon notice and affidavit of the facts, have judg
ment against the party at whose instance the notice was
given, for two dollars per day for each day he may attend
under the notice, and six cents per mile for the distance
necessarily traveled in going to and returning from the
place fixed for taking such depositions, unless it shall be
shown that the failure to take such depositions, did not re
sult from the negligence or fault of the party giving the
notice.
Sec. 318. The deposition may be taken upon written interrogatories
as follows : The party desiring to take such
deposition shall serve notice of his intention, together with
a copy of the interrogatories which he intends to propound.
The opposite party may file with the Clerk within five days
such cross-interrogatories as he desires to propound. The
Clerk shall then issue to some officer, by him to be selected,
authorized to take depositions, a commission with the inter
rogatories, cross-interrogatories and re-examining interro
gatories annexed thereto, requiring him to cause the wit
ness to come before him at such time and place as he may
appoint, and to faithfully take his deposition, upon the
questions annexed to the commission, and, thereupon, to
make return to the Court of his doings under such commis
sion, without delay. The officer shall first swear or affirm the
witness, that he will make a true, full and perfect a/iswer
to the interrogatories to be propounded to him, and then he
shall propound the interrogatories annexed to the commis
sion in their order, and accurately write the answers of the
witness to such. He shall then read carefully to the wit
ness such interrogatories and his answers thereto, and cor
rect the answers as the witness may desire, and then the
witness shall sign such deposition. Neither the parties,
their agents or attorneys, shall be present, nor shall they,
or any of them, be informed of the nature of the evidence
until the deposition is finished. The officer shall annex to
the deposition, his certificate, showing, specifically a fulfill
ment of each requirement of this section, and shall then
enclose the deposition with the commission, interrogatories
and answers, securely sealed, and transmit the same, ad
dressed to the Clerk of the Court in which the suit is
pending, with the title of the cause indorsed thereon : Pro
vided, however, If the party served with notice, as in this section provided, shall prefer to cross-examine the witness
orally, he shall notify the opposite party of such election
within three days after receiving notice, and, in that case,
the deposition shall not be taken without notice to him of
the time and place thereof, and he shall have the privilege
of an oral cross examination, and the commission and offi
cer's certificate shall be modified accordingly.
Sec. 319. There shall be no difference in evidence between
sealed and unsealed writings ; and every writing not
sealed, shall have the same force and effect that it would
have if sealed. A writing under seal, except conveyances
of real estate, or any interest therein, may, thereforee, be
changed, or altogether discharged by a writing not under
seal. An agreement in writing, without a seal, for the
compromise or settlement of a debt, is as obligatory as if a
seal were affixed. (273.)
Sec. 320. The execution of an instrument, is the subscribing
and delivering it, with or without affixing a seal.
(274.)
Sec. 321. Recitals in any written instrument, shall
have no greater effect than they have heretofore had in
writings not under seal. (275.)
Sec. 322. The last three sections do not repeal or affeet
any statute of this State expressly requiring a seal to
a deed or other instrument. (276.)
[Of Documentary and Other Written Evidence.']
Sec. 323. The printed statute books of this State, and
of the late territory northwest of the Ohio river, and the
territories of Indiana and Illinois, purporting to be printed
under the authority of said State or Territories, shall be
evidence in all Courts and places, of the acts therein con
tained. (277.)
Sec. 324. The printed statute books of the several
States and Territories of the United States, purporting to
be printed under the authority of those States and Terri
tories, and any copy of any statute, or any part thereof,
contained therein, having attached thereto the certificate of
the Secretary of State, under seal of the State, certifying
the copy to be complete and correct, that the statute book,
from which the copy is taken, is deposited in the office of
the Secretary, or in the State library, and is, by him, be
lieved to have been received under the authority of the
State or Territory purporting to have enacted the same,
shall be presumptive evidence, in all Courts, of the legis
lative acts, public or private, of those States or Territories
respectively. (278.)
Sec. 325. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of
any Justice or Justices of the Peace of any State or territory of the United States, or of the District of Columbia,
certified by the justice or justices, under his or their hands
and seals, before whom the proceedings were had or judg
ments rendered, or their successors in office, or other jus
tices having legal custody thereof, that the same are true
and complete copies of the proceedings or judgments, with
the certificate of the Clerk or prothonotary of any Court
of record of the county or district where said justice or
justices shall hold his or their office or offices, certifying,
under the seal of said Court, that the justice or justices,
was or were at the time when the proceedings were had or
judgments rendered, and when the copy was taken, duly
commissioned and qualified to act as such, shall be admis
sible as evidence in any of the Courts of this State. (279.)
Sec. 326. Copies of the proceedings and judgments of
any Justice of the Peace of this State, certified under his
hand and seal, or under the hand and seal of the justice
who may have the legal custody thereof, as true and com
plete copies of such proceedings or judgments, shall be re
ceived as evidence in the several Courts in this State.
(280.)
Sec. 327. Certificates or instruments, either printed or
written, purporting to be the official act of a Notary Public
of this State, of the District of Columbia, or of any other
State or Territory of the United States, and purporting to
be under the seal and signature of such Notary Public,
shall be received as presumptive evidence of the official
character of such instrument and of the facts therein set
forth. (281.)
Sec. 328. The certificate of the Secretary of State,
under the seal of State, stating the time when any act or
acts of the General Assembly were deposited in his office,
or deposited in the office of the Clerk of any Circuit or
Superior Court in this State, as shall appear from the cer
tificate or receipt of any such Clerk, shall be admissible in
all the Courts of this State as evidence of the facts stated
in such Secretary's certificate. (282.)
Sec. 329. Exemplifications or copies of records, and
records of deeds and other instruments, or of office books
or parts thereof, and official bonds which are kept in any
public office in this State, shall be proved or admitted as
legal evidence in any Court or office in this State, by the
attestation of the keeper of said records, or books, deeds or
other instruments, or official bonds, that the same are true
and complete copies of the records, bonds, instruments or
books, or parts thereof in his custody, and the seal of office
of said keeper thereto annexed, if there be a seal, and if
there be no official seal, there shall be attached to such at
testation, the certificate of the Clerk, and the seal of the
Circuit or Superior Court of the proper county where such
keeper resides, that such attestation is made by the proper
officer. (283.)
Sec. 330. The register, catalogue, tract-book, plat-book, £
and description of lands, kept at any land office of the
United States, located in this State, or at any office for the
sale of canal or Michigan road lands, and copies thereof duly
certified as true and complete by their proper keeper, and
copies duly certified by the Auditor of State, as true and
complete copies from said original documents, or from
copies of the same, legally deposited in the office of said
Auditor of State, shall be admissible in evidence in civil
actions in all the Courts of this State, and shall be taken
and held as prima facie evidence of the truth of their con
tents. (1.)
Sec. 331. Every certificate of purchase at a land office i
of the United States, shall be evidence of the legal title to
the land therein described. (530.)
[Canal Patents.]
Sec. 332. Any and all conveyances of land made, un- c
der the law existing at the time, by the trustees or other e
]>erson designated by law to make such conveyance, by
whatever name such conveyance be known, conveying
any of the lands known as the " Wabash and Erie Ca
nal Lands," or other canal lands in this State, and signed
by 6uch trustees or other authorized person, shall not
be held invalid for want of a seal or scrawl in lieu there
of, nor because not duly acknowledged ; but, if other
wise legal, shall be deemed and taken as valid and sufficient
to convey the land therein described, as fully and com
pletely as if the same had been duly sealed and acknowl
edged, and when the same have been recorded in the rec
ords of deeds in the county where the lands described
therein are located, the record thereof shall be held and
taken to be authorized and valid, as if said deed had been
duly acknowledged, or the execution thereof had been duly
proven before record made; and such conveyance and the
record thereof, are each hereby legalized and declared
valid and binding in law, as if the same had been made in
full and proper form before being recorded. And, from
and after the taking effect of this act, all such conveyances
and the record thereof, and exemplifications of such record,
shall be admissible in evidence in all the courts in this
State, in all cases where, by law, deeds and records duly
made and completed, are legal evidence, without regard to
said defects existing at the time of execution, delivery and
record, and as if said conveyances had been duly signed,
sealed and witnessed and acknowledged at the time of exe
cution, the delivery of, and the recording thereof: Pro
vided, that this act shall not apply to instruments defective
in other respects than as in this act it is provided ; and
Whereas, The officers who executed many of the con
veyances in this act contemplated, are out of office or dead,
or gone to parts unknown ; their signatures can not be
proven ; their office is abolished and many such deeds have
not been admitted to record : Therefore, (1.)
Sec. 333. All such deeds or conveyances, as are in the
firgt [prece(jjng] section of this act referred to, shall be ad
mitted to record ; and it shall be lawful for the recorder of
deeds to record the same in the proper county, as if the
same had been duly acknowledged, or the execution duly
proven ; and the record, when made, shall have the same
force and effect as if they had been so duly acknowledged or
proven : Provided, That nothing in this act contained
shall be so construed as to, in any wise, affect the rights of
any purchaser in good faith, for a valuable consideration
without actual notice, or the rights of any owner of any
portion of the class of lands described in this act. (2.)
Sec. 334. The acts and proceedings of corporations
may be proved by a sworn copy of the record of such acts
and proceedings; the oath shall state that such transcript
is a true and full copy of the original, and that such origi
nal has remained unaltered from its date, to the best of
deponent's knowledge and belief. Such sworn copies shall
be received as evidence in all cases where the original
would be evidence. (284.)
^ec. 335- Every act of the Legislature of any one of
the States or Territories of the United States, certified by
the Secretary, and having the seal of the State or Territory
affixed thereto, shall be deemed authentic, and receive full
faith and credit when offered in evidence in any Court
within this State. (285.)
Sec. 336. The register now remaining in the office of
the Secretary of State of the sales of the Michigan Road
lands, and certified copies of any entry therein, under the
seal of the State, shall be admissible in evidence in all
Courts and places, and such register, or a certified copy of
the entry of the sale of a tract of land therein described,
by any person or persons therein named, as the purchaser
thereof, shall be prima facie evidence that such person or
persons, designated in said register, was the purchaser
roof, and that the title to the same has been conveyed byState
to the purchaser in fee simple. (1.)
Sec. 337. The record of all patents and all certificates of f
rchase, and all other evidence in writing of the sale of
il estate, whether issued by the United States, or of this
ate, or made by any person or corporation, and all duly
rufied copies of such record, shall be admissible in evitnce
in all Courts and places, with the same force and
feet as if the original was produced. (2.)
Sec. 338. The records and judicial proceedings of the
veral Courts of record, of or within the United States or
le Territories thereof, shall be admitted in the Courts
ithin this State as evidence, by attestation or certificate of
ae Clerk or prothonotary, and the seal of the Court anexed,
together with the seal of the Chief Justice or one or
ciore of the Judges, or the presiding Magistrate of any such
1,'ourt, that the person who signed the attestation or certi
ficate was, at the time of subscribing it, the Clerk or pro
thonotary of the Court, and that the attestation is in due form
of law, and the records and judicial proceedings, authen
ticated as aforesaid, shall have full faith and credit given to
them in any Court within this State, as, by law or usage,
they have in the Courts whence taken. (286.)
Sec. 339. When notice is, in any action, proceeding, or
sale under execution, or other matter required by the provisions
of law, to be given by publication in any newspa
per, an affidavit of the printer, or any person in his employ,
as a clerk or printer, of a competent age, annexed to a copy
of the notice taken from the paper in which it was pub
lished, may be filed in the clerk's office by the person whose
duty it was to cause the publication to be made ; such affi
davit must specify the county, the time when, and the paper
in which, the notice was published. (287.)
Sec. 340. The original affidavit and copy of the notice,
filed pursuant to the provisions of the last section, and
copies thereof, duly certified by the Clerk, shall be presumptive evidence in all cases and before every Court of
the facts contained in the affidavit. (288.)
Sec. 341. When any affidavit is taken in another State
and certified by the officer or Justice of the Peace taking
the same, under his hand and seal of office, if he have any
such seal, and attested by the Clerk of the Circuit or Dis
trict Court, or Court of Common Pleas of the county where
such officer exercises the duties of his office, under the hand
of the Clerk and seal of his Court, the Clerk also certify
ing that the officer or Justice of the Peace is, by the laws
of said State, duly empowered to administer oaths and
affirmations, and take affidavits, every such affidavit £
be deemed sufficiently authenticated, and may be
and used in any of the Courts of this State. (289.)
Sec. 342. The unwritten or common law of any
of the United States, or of the Territories thereof, maf
proved as facts by parol evidence, and the books of" rei
of cases adjudged in their Courts may also be ad mitt
evidence of such law. (290.)
Sec. 343. The existence and tenor or effect of the lavrs
any foreign country, may be proved as facts by parol ew
dence; but, if it shall appear that the law in question
contained in a written statute or code, the Court mayJ
their discretion, reject any evidence of such law whic
not accompanied by a copy thereof. (291.)
Sec. 344. The proof of the service of any process issof
by the Court, or of any notice required to be served upo
any party, shall be as follows:
First. If served by the Sheriff, his certificate thereof; or
Second. By any other person, his affidavit thereof ;
Third. In case of publication, a printed copy, with
affidavit of the printer, his foreman or clerk, or of
competent witness.
Fourth. The written admission of the defendant,
affidavit or admission must state the time and place of
vice. (292.)
Sec. 345. The Clerk shall endorse upon every pap
filed in his office or in open Court, and upon every pr
returned to him or to the Court, except summonses,
date of the filing and return ; and the endorsement sh
be presumptive evidence of the time of the filing and
turn. (293.)
[Examination of Parties.]
Sec. 346. A party to an action may be examined as »
witness concerning any matter stated in the pleading, at the
instance of the adverse party, or any one of several adverse
parties, and for that purpose may be compelled, in the samfl
manner, and subject to the same rules of examinatioD
any other witness, to testify either at the trial, or condi
tionally, or upon commission. (295.)
Sec. 347. The examination, instead of being had at fte
trial, may be had at any time before the trial, at the option
of the party claiming it, before any officer authorized totake
depositions, on a previous notice to the party to be ex
amined, and any other adverse party, of at least five davv
unless for good cause shown, the Court order otherwise.
But the party to be examined before trial, shall not be com
pelled to attend in any other county than that of his resi
dence. (296.)
Sec. 348. The attendance of the party to be examined,
may be enforced, and the examination shall be taken and
filed as a deposition in the cause, and may be read by the
party taking it, at his option ; but, if not read, the party
causing the examination, shall pay the costs thereof. (297.)
Sec. 349. The evidence of the party thus taken, may
be rebutted by adverse testimony. (298.)
Sec. 350. Any party refusing to attend and testify as
above provided, may be punished as for a contempt, and
his complaint, answer or reply, may be stricken out. (299.)
Sec. 351. Either party may propound interrogatories
to be filed with the pleadings, relevant to the matter in
controversy, and require the opposite party to answer the
same under oath. And corporations, through their proper
officers, agent or agents, shall be required to answer inter
rogatories as natural persons. All interrogatories must be
answered within the time limited positively, and without
evasion, and the Court may enforce the answer by attach
ment or otherwise, and the party may, in addition thereto,
set forth, in his answer, all relative matter in avoidance ;
the answer to the interrogatories may be used on the trial
or not, at the option of the party requiring it : Provided,
That in the absence of such opposite party, the filing of the
interrogatories shall not work a continuance of the cause,
unless it be shown to the Court, by affidavit, that the party
who files such interrogatories, expects to elicit facts by the
answer, material to him on the trial, that he believes such
facts to be true, that he can not prove the same by any
witness, and that he files the interrogatories, not for delay
merely, but to obtain substantial justice at the trial. (383.)
[Production and Inspection of Writings.]
Sec. 352. If either party, at any time before trial, allow
the other an inspection of any writing, material to the
action, whether mentioned in the pleadings or not, and de
liver to him a copy thereof, with notice that he intends to
read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may
be so read, without proof of its genuineness or execution,
unless denied by affidavit before the commencement of the
trial ; if such denial be made of any writing, not mentioned
in the pleadings, the Court may give time to either party
to procure evidence when necessary for the furtherance of
justice. (304 )
Sec. 353. The Court, or Judge thereof mav, upon affii
. /» i . • Pi. .
davit oi their necessity or materiality, upon motion, com
pel by order, either party to produce, at or before the trial,
any book, paper or document in his possession or power;
the order may be made upon application of either party,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his attorney.
If not produced, parol evidence may be given of their con
tents. (305.)
Sec. 354. The Court, or a Judge thereof, may, under
proper restrictions, upon due notice, order either party to
give the other, within a specified time, an inspection and
copy of any book or part thereof, paper or document in his
possession, or under his control, containing evidence relat
ing to the merits of the action, or the defense therein ; if
-compliance with the order be refused, the Court, on motion,
mav exclude such evidence, or punish the party refusing, or
both. (306 )
[Empaneling Jurors.^
Sec. 355. In any civil action, where the parties are entitled to a trial by jury, and either party shall demand such
trial, the Sheriff shall call a jury from the regular panel,
except as hereinafter provided. (307.)
Sec. 356. The number of jurors to try a civil action
shall not exceed twelve, nor be less than three. The par
ties may determine the number of jurors by agreement, and
in case of their disagreement the number shall be twelve.
(308.)
Sec. 357. The parties may agree upon the jurors to
compose a special jury, and notify the Court thereof, and the
Court shall thereupon direct the Sheriff to empanel such
special jury, if it can be done without unreasonable de
lay of the cause. (309.)
Sec. 358. When both parties desire it, the Court may
direct the Sheriff to summon eighteen competent jurors, or
a less number, and the plaintifff first, and then the defendant,
shall strike out one juror in turn, until each has struck
off six or more, and the remaining jurors shall try the cause ;
or the parties, when they consent, upon being furnished
with a list of jurors to be summoned, may exercise the
right to strike out any part of the names before the jurors
are summoned, and the remaining jurors only shall be
summoned. (310.)
Pec. 369. Whenever a struck jury shall be deemed
• M • /V -j.
necessary for the trial of any civil cause in any Circuit or
Superior Court of this State, it shall be lawful for either
party to file with the Clerk, a demand for such jury, when
it shall be the duty of such Clerk to give four days' notice
to both parties, or to their attorneys, of the time of strik
ing the same ; at the time designated, said Clerk shall at
tend at his office, and in the presence of the parties, or of
such of them as shall attend for that purpose, shall select
from the number of persons qualified to serve as jurors
within the county, forty such persons as he shall think
most indifferent between the parties, and best qualified to
try such cause; and then the party requiring such jury, his
agent or attorney, shall first strike off one of the names,
and then the opposite party, his agent or attorney, another,
and so on, alternately, until each shall have struck out
twelve. If either party shall not attend in person, or by
attorney, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to strike out for
the party not attending. When each party shall have
stricken out twelve names as aforesaid, the Clerk shall
make a fair copy of the names of the remaining sixteen
persons, and immediately thereafter, issue process, directing
the Sheriff of the county, to summons said sixteen persons,
as jurors struck for the trial of such cause, stating the day
for which it is set for trial, and such Sheriff shall, there
upon, summon accordingly ; but, in all cases, it shall be
necessary to strike such jury at least five days previous to
the day at which said case is set for trial on the docket,
and two days' service of the process by the Sheriff, shall
be held sufficient. And, upon the trial of the cause, the
jury so struck shall be called as they stand upon the panel,
and the first twelve of them who shall appear, and are not
challenged for cause or set aside by the Court, shall be the
jury, and shall be sworn to try said issue: Provided, how
ever, That, unless at least one-half of such struck jury
shall have been summoned, and shall be in attendance when
such cause is called for trial, the case shall be tried by the
regular petit jury, as other cases. (1.)
Sec. 360. That if the Clerk of such Court shall be interested
in the cause, or related to either of the parties, or
do not stand indifferent between them in every such case,
the Judge entitled to try said cause may, in vacation or
term time, name some judicious and disinterested person to
strike the jury, and to do and perform all things required
to be done by such Clerk relating to the striking of such
jury. (2.)
Sec. 361. The party requiring such struck jury shall
pay the fees for striking the same, and one dollar and
twenty-five cents each day for each juror so attending, and
shall not have an allowance therefore in the taxation of costs,
unless the Court shall be of opinion that the cause required
such special jury, in which last case the extraordinary ex
pense shall be taxed in the bill of costs. If the Court,
upon motion of either party, shall have ordered a struck
jury, then the costs thereof shall abide the event of the
suit. (3.)
Sec. 362. A struck jury for the trial of the cause at
anv term °f tne Court may be continued with the continu
ance of the cause, and be summoned in as jurors at a sub
sequent term, provided both parties consent thereto, but.
not otherwise. (4.)
Sec. 363. It shall be sufficient cause for challenge to a
juror, that he is interested in another suit, begun or con
templated, involving the same or a similar matter. (311.)
Sec. 364. Before the commencement of the trial an
oath must be administered to each juror, that he will well
and truly try the matter in issue between the parties, and
a true verdict give, according to law and evidence. (312.)
Sec. 365. In all cases where the jury consists of six
or more persons> each party shall have three peremptory
challenges. (313.)
Sec. 366. When the regular panel is exhausted, or is
insufficient from any cause, the Sheriff shall call the by
standers, or fill the jury in such a manner as the Court may
direct. (314.)
[Trial and Its Incidents.]
Sec. 367. Every action shall stand for issue and trial
^ ^ term after js commenced, where the summons
has been served on the defendant ten days, or publication
has been made for thirty days before the first day of the
term : Provided, however, That when the complaint is filed,
whether before or during any term of Court, the plaintifff
may fix the day during such term, by endorsement thereof
upon the complaint at the time of filing the same, on which
the defendant shall appear, which day, when so fixed, shall
be stated in the summons when issued, and the action shall
be docketed in its order. And if summons shall be per
sonally served ten days before such day, or publication
shall be made three weeks, thirty days before such day,
such action shall thereupon stand for issue and trial at such
term, and the Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and de
termine such action, as if summons had been served, or
publication made before the first day of the term, as here
inbefore provided. And if at any time, after the filing of
the complaint, it shall be found that any party to the action
has not been properly notified, the plaintifff* may file with
the Clerk, or endorse on the complaint, a written request
for such notice to be given, naming therein the day of the
pending or subsequent term, on which such party is re
quired to appear to the action ; and summons shall be issued
or publication made accordingly in the proper cases as
above provided. And if summons shall be personally
served ten days before such day, or publication made three
weeks successively thirty days before such day, such case
shall thereupon stand for issue and trial at such term, and
the Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine
such action as if summons had been served, or publication
made before the first day of the term as hereinbefore pro
vided. (315.)
[Jsswes.]
Sec. 368. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact, or i
conclusion of law, is maintained by one party, and contro- k
verted by the other. They are of two kinds:
First. Of law.
-Second. Of fact. (316.)
Sec. 369. An issue of law arises upon demurrer to the
complaint, answer or reply, or to some part thereof. (317.)
Sec. 370. An issue of fact arises :
First. Upon a material allegation, in the complaint,
denied by the answer.
Second. Upon material new matter, in the answer, de
nied by the reply.
Third. Upon material new matter in the reply, which
shall be considered as controverted by the opposite party
without further pleading. (318.)
Sec. 371. The trial is a judicial examination of the
issues, whether by law or of fact, in an action. (319.)
Sec. 372. Issues of law and issues of fact in causes
that, prior to the 18th day of June, 1852, were of exclusive
equitable jurisdiction, shall be tried by the Court, issues of
fact in all other causes shall be triable as the same are now
triable. In case of the joinder of causes of action or de
fenses, which prior to said date were of exclusive equitable
jurisdiction, with causes of action or defenses which prior
to said date were designated as actions at law and triable
by jury—the former shall be triable by the Court, and the
latter by a jury, unless waived ; the trial of both may be
at the same time or at different times, as the Court may
direct: Provided, That in all cases triable by the Court as
above directed, the Court iii its discretion for its informa
tion, may cause any question of fact to be tried by a jury,
or the Court may refer any such cause to a master commis
sioner for hearing and report. (320.)
Sec. 373. The trial in each action shall be in the order
in which it stands upon the docket, unless the Court, for
good cause shown, shall direct otherwise. (321.)
Sec. 374. A motion to postpone the trial on account of
the absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit,
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be ob
tained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it ;
and where the evidence may be ; and if it is for an absent
witness, the affidavit must show the name and residence of
the witness, if known, and the probability of procuring
the testimony within a reasonable time, and that his ab
sence has not been procured by the act or connivance of
the party, nor by others at his request, nor with his
knowledge and consent, and what facts he believes the wit
ness will testify to, and that he believes them to be true, and
that he is unable to prove such facts by any other witness
whose testimony can be as readily procured. If, there
upon, the adverse party will consent that, on the trial, the
facts shall be taken as true, if the absent evidence is writ
ten or documentary, and, in case of a witness, that he will
testify to said facts as true, the trial shall not be postponed
for that cause, and, in such case, the party against whom
such evidence is used, shall have the right to impeach such
absent witness, as in case where the witness is present, or
his deposition is used. (322.)
Sec. 375. Any Court, for good cause shown, may continue any action at any stage of the proceedings, at the
cost of the applicant, to be paid as the Court shall direct:
Provided, That if, by reason of an amendment to the
pleadings, a party who would otherwise be ready for trial
be compelled to obtain a continuance, it shall be at the costs
of the party making the amendment. (323.)
[Trial by Jury.\
Sec. 376. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
shall proceed in the following order, unless the Court, for
special reasons, otherwise directs :
First. The party upon whom rests the burden of the
issues, may briefly state his case and the evidence by which
he expects to sustain it.
Second. The adverse party may then briefly state his
defense and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
Third. The party on whom rests the burden of the
issues must first produce his evidence; the adverse party
will then produce his evidence, which may then be rebutted.
Fourth. When the evidence is concluded, and either
party desires special instructions to be given to the jury,
such instruction shall be reduced to writing, numbered and
signed by the party or his attorney asking the same, and
delivered to the Court.
Fifth. When the argument of the cause is concluded,
the Court shall give general instructions to the jury, which
shall be in writing, and be numbered and signed by the
Judge, if required by either party.
Sixth. Where either party asks special instructions to
be given to the jury, the Court shall either give each in
struction as requested, or positively refuse to do so; or,
give the instructions with a modification, in such manner
that it shall distinctly appear what instructions were given,
in whole or in part, and in like manner, those refused, so
that either party may except to the instructions, as asked
for, or as modified, or to the modification. All instructions
given by the Court must be signed by the Judge, and
filed, together with those asked for by the parties, as a part
of the record. The instructions shall not be entered at
large on the final record, unless either party may wish to
remove the cause to a superior Court. (324)
Sec. 377. Upon the trial of any civil cause before a s
jury in any Circuit or Superior Court of this State, any
party thereto, having an interest in the result of such trial,
may, before the commencement of the argument to the jury,
tender to the Court instructions in writing, properly num
bered, to be given to the jury, and require the Court to in
dicate before the argument, such as will be given, by writ
ing opposite each the words " given," " given as modified
by the Court," or " refused." And if the Court desires, he
may hear argument thereon by the respective counsel, be
fore acting on the instructions tendered. And thereupon,
during the argument to the jury, any instructions so indi
cated to be given, may be read to the jury as the law of
the case, and the Court shall give the same to the jury
as the law when such jury is instructed by the Court.
And the Court may of its own motion, and shall, upon ap
plication of either party, also before the commencement of
the argument, lay before the parties any instructions prop
erly numbered, which it will give to the jury, and there
upon the same may be read by any one as the law, while
making an argument to the jury : Provided, however, The
Court may give to the jury such other instructions, with
those already approved, at the close of the argument as
may be necessary to fully present the law to the jury and
secure the ends of justice. (1.)
Sec. 378. A party excepting to the giving of instruc
tions, or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a
formal bill of exceptions ; but it shall be sufficient to write
on the margin, or at the close of each instruction, "refused
and excepted to," or " given and excepted to," which mem
orandum shall be signed by the Judge and dated. (325.)
Sec. 379. The parties may either submit or argue the
case to the jury. In the argument, the party having the
burden of the issue shall have the opening and closing;
but shall disclose in the opening all the points relied on in
the cause ; and if, in the closing, he refer to any new point
or fact not disclosed in the opening, the adverse party shall
have the right of replying thereto, which reply shall close
the argument in the case. (326.)
Sec. 380. It shall be the duty of the Court, when re
quested by either party, to take brief notes of the evidence
of the parties in the order in which the same is introduced
on the trial. (327.)
Sec. 381. Whenever, in the opinion of the Court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of real or personal prop
erty which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be
conducted in a body, under the charge of a sworn officer, to
the place, which shall be shown to them by some person
appointed by the Court for that purpose. While the jury
are thus absent, no person, other than the person so ap
pointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with
the trial. (328.)
Sec. 382. Whenever a case is finally submitted to the
jury, they may decide in Court, or retire for deliberation.
If they retire, they must be kept together in some conve
nient place, under the charge of a sworn officer, until they
agree upon a verdict, or are discharged by the Court, sub
ject to the discretion of the Court, to permit them to sepa
rate temporarily and at their meals. The officer having
them under his charge shall not suffer any communication
to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask
them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by or
der of the Court ; and he shall not, before the verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their de
liberations or the verdict agreed upon. (329.)
Sec. 383. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial or after the cause is submitted to them,
they must be admonished by the Court that it is their duty
not to converse with each other, or suffer themselves to be
addressed by any other person, on any subject of the trial ;
and during the trial, that it is their duty not to form or ex
press among themselves, an opinion thereon, until the cause
is finally submitted to them. (330.)
Sec. 384. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there is a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any
point of law arising in the case, they may request the offi
cer to conduct them into Court, where the information re
quired shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to,
the parties or their attorneys. (331.)
Sec. 385. The jury may be ' discharged by the Court,
on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or
calamity requiring the discharge, or by consent of both
parties, or after they have been kept together until it satis
factorily appears that there is no probability of their agree
ing. (332.)
Sec. 386. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it
may be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the
Court may direct. (333.)
Sec. 387. When the jury have agreed upon their verdiet,
it must be reduced to writing and signed by the foreman; and when returned into court, the foreman shall de
liver the verdict, and either party may poll the jury. If
any juror dissent from the verdict, they shall again be sent
out to deliberate. (334.)
[ Verdicts ]
Sec. 388. The verdict of a jury is either a general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce
generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of
the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury find the facts only, leaving judgment thereon
to the Court. (335.)
Sec. 389. In all actions the jury, unless otherwise directed by the Court, may, in their discretion, render a general
or special verdict ; but the Court shall, at the request
of either party, direct them to give a special verdict in
writing upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases,
when requested by either party, shall instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular
questions of fact to be stated in writing. This special find
ing is to be recorded with the verdict. (336.)
Sec. 390. When the special finding of facts is inconsist
ent with the general verdict, the former shall control the
latter, and the Court shall give judgment accordingly. (337.)
Sec. 391. In actions for recovery of money, the jury
must assess the amount of the recovery. (338.)
Sec. 392. In actions for the recovery of specific per
sonal property, the jury must assess the value of the prop
erty, as also the damages for the taking or detention, when
ever, by their verdict, there will be a judgment for the re
covery or return of the property. (339.)
[Trial by the Court.']
Sec. 393. The trial, by jury, may be waived by the
parties, in all actions, in the following manner:
First. By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. By a written consent in person, or by attorney,
filed with the Clerk.
Third. By oral consent in open Court, entered on the
record. (340.)
Sec. 394. Upon trials of questions of fact by the
Court, it shall not be necessary for the Court to state its
finding, except generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, un
less one of the parties request it, with a view of excepting
to the decision of the Court upon the questions of law in
volved in the trial, in which case, the Court shall first
state the facts in writing, and then the conclusions of law
upon them, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.
And, whenever any issue of law or fact is submitted to the
Court for trial, and the Judge shall take the same under
advisement, the Judge shall not, except in case of severe
illness of himself or family, hold the same under advise
ment for more than sixty days, and, if the Court wherein
said issues arose, be not then in session, he shall file his de
termination therein, in writing, with the papers in the case.
(341.)
Sec. 395. When any Superior Court consists of more
than one Judge, there shall be held general and special terms
thereof. A general term of such Court may be held by a
majority of the Judges, and a special term by any one or
more of them ; and general and special terms, or one or
more of them, may be held at the same time, as the Judges ot
the Court may direct ; and whenever such term or terms are
held, they shall be taken and deemed to have been held by
the authority and direction of the judges.
Sec. 396. The said Court, at general or special term,
shall have power to issue and direct all process to Courts 0f'
inferior jurisdiction, and to corporations and individuals,
which shall be necessary in exercising its jurisdiction, and
for the regular execution of the law, and to make all proper
judgments, sentences, decrees, orders and injunctions, and
to issue all process and executions, and to do such other acts
as may be necessary to carry into effect the same, in con
formity with the constitution and laws of the State. The
Court shall, at such times as the business of the Court may
require it, meet in general term, and may, at any time, make
such distribution and and re-distribution of the business of
the Court to special term, as it may deem proper. Each
Judge, holding Court at special term, shall transact the
business assigned him ; but he may, in his discretion, call
one or more of the Judges of said Court to sit with him in
such special term, for the consideration of any matter pend
ing before him. Said Court, at special term, shall have full
power to hear and dispose of business distributed to it by
the general term ; and it shall, at either special or general
term, have the same power, to vacate or modify its own
judgments or orders, rendered at either special or general
term, and to enter judgments by confession, as is, or may be,
vested by law in Circuit Courts.
Sec. 397. The Judges of said Court, or either of them,
shall have the same power, in term or in vacation, to grant
restraining orders, injunctions and of writs of ne exeat, to
issue writs of habeas corpus, and of mandate and prohibi
tion, to appoint receivers, master commissioners and com
missioners to convey real property, and to grant commis
sions for the examination of witnesses, and to appoint other
officers necessary to facilitate and transact the business of
said Court, as is now, or may hereafter be, conferred on
Judges of Circuit Courts.
Sec. 398. When any reason for a change of venue is
shown to exist from any of the Judges, as in other cases,
the remaining Judge or Judges alone shall act, but when
all are incompetent to act, the case shall be transferred to
the Circuit Court of the county.
Sec. 399. In all cases where, under existing or future
laws of this State, a person has the right of appeal from the
Circuit Court to the Supreme Court, an appeal may be had
from a special term to the general term of said Superior
Court. The appeal shall be heard and considered in the
general term upon the original papers and records filed
and made in the cause at special term, and such matters as
are made part thereof by bills of exceptions ; it may affirm
or reverse the judgment of the special term or modify it,
or render such judgment as may be deemed proper. It
shall, if the judgment of the special term is not affirmed,
enter of record the error or errors found therein, and re
mand said cause to the special term with instructions as to
said error or errors, and the special term shall carry into
effect the instructions of the general term.
Sec- 400- It; sna^ only t>e necessary for a party appealing from a special to the general term to pray an appeal to
the general term, and it shall be granted as a matter of
right, and no bond shall be required in such case, unless it
is shown by affidavit to be necessary for the protection of
the rights of parties, in which case bonds shall be given,
with such conditions as may be directed by the Court ; and
such appeal shall stay the proceedings upon the action of
the special term in the case, and in the manner that a stay
of proceedings is allowed upon an appeal to the Supreme
Court from the Circuit Court, and none other.
Sec. 401. Any party may appeal to the Supreme Court
r .v i • j i > ix •
trom the order or judgment of general term in any case
where, by existing or future laws of this State, an appeal
may be had from an order or judgment of the Circuit Court,
and also when a party has had a judgment in his favor in a
special term, and it is reversed or modified by the general
term upon appeal to it, the appeal from the general term to
the Supreme Court shall be regulated by the law regulating
appeals from the Circuit Court to the Supreme Court so far
as applicable. An appeal may also be taken to the Su
preme Court in the same manner and in like cases as from
Circuit Courts, or the Judge thereof, when, on account of
the incompetency of some of the Judges, an appeal can not
be taken to general term.
[Exceptions.]
Sec. 402. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the Court upon a matter of law. (342.)
Sec. 403. The party objecting to the decision must except at the time the decision is made ; but time may be
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond
the term, unless' by special leave of the Court. It shall
not be necessary to copy a written instrument, or any doc
umentary evidence, into a bill of exceptions ; but it shall
be sufficient to refer to such evidence, if its appropriate
place be designated by the words " here insert : '' Provided,
That if a motion for a new trial shall be filed in a cause in
which such decision, so excepted to, is assigned as a reason
for a new trial, such motion shall carry such decision and
exception forward to the time of ruling on such motion,
and time may be then given by the Court within which to
reduce such exception to writing. (343.)
Sec. 404. No particular form of exception is required. F
The objection must, be stated with so much of the evidence v
as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as
briefly as possible. (344.)
Sec. 405. Where the decision objected to is entered on E
the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the en- a
try, the exception may be taken by the party causing it to
be noted at the end of the decision that he excepts. (345.)
Sec. 406. When the record does not otherwise show
the decision or grounds of objection thereto, the party ob- 4
jecting must, within such time as may be allowed, present
to the judge a proper bill of exceptions, which, if true, he
shall promptly sign and cause it to be filed in the cause; it
not true, the Judge shall correct, sign, and cause it to be filed
without delay. When so filed it shall be a part of the rec
ord, and delay of the Judge in signing and filing the same
shall not deprive the party objecting, of the benefit thereof.
The date of the presentation shall be stated in the bill of
exceptions, and the entry shall show the time granted, if
beyond the time, for presenting the same. (346.)
Sec. 407. Either party may reserve any question of
law decided by the Court, during the progress of the cause,
for the decision of the Supreme Court. Any question of
law so reserved, may be taken to the Supreme Court upon
the bill of exceptions showing the decision; or, if it arises
on demurrer, upon the pleadings involved. When the
question so reserved is shown by the bill of exceptions, the
party excepting shall notify the Court that he intends to
take the question of law to the Supreme Court upon the
bill of exceptions only, and the Court shall thereupon
cause the bill of exceptions to be so made that it will dis
tinctly and briefly embrace so much of the record of the
cause only, and the statement of the Court, as will enable
the Supreme Court to apprehend the particular question
involved. (347.)
Sec. 408. The party excepting may take the reserved
question to the Supreme Court by appeal, at any time
within one year after final judgment in the cause, and not
afterwards. The appeal in such case shall not stay proceedings upon the judgment, unless so ordered by the Su
preme Court, or some Judge thereof. (348.)
[ Trial by Referees .]
Sec. 409. All or any of the issues in the action, except
jn act;on for (]ivorce aud for the nullification of marriages,
whether those issues be of fact or of law, or both, may be
referred upon the written consent of both parties (349.)
Sec. 410. The trial by referees is conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the Court. They have the same power
to grant adjournments as the Court, upon such trials. If
required, they must state the facts found and the conclu
sions of law separately, and their decision must be given
and may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. (350.)
Sec. 411. In all cases of reference the parties may
agree Up0n a suitable person or persons, not exceeding
three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and
if the parties do not agree, the Court shall appoint one or
more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from
exception. (351.)
[Trial by Master Commissioners.]
Sec. 412. The Judges of the Circuit Courts in their
respective counties shall appoint at least one master com
missioner in each county of his circuit, who shall be a resi
dent of the county seat, and as many more as such Judge
may deem necessary, who shall be competent attorneys in
good standing, and who shall receive their appointment in
writing from the Judge making the same, and shall con
tinue in office until removed by the Court. (1.)
Sec. 413. Every person appointed a master commis
sioner shall take the oath required by the constitution and
laws of this State before he shall proceed to discharge any
of the duties of his office ; and such oath shall be entered
at full length on the order book of the Court for which he
may be appointed. (2.)
Sec. 414. Every master commissioner shall, under the
direction of the Court, have power to sell and convey real
estate. (3.)
Sec. 4151 Such master commissioners are empowered
to administer all oaths and affirmations which are required by
law ; to take and certify affidavits and depositions; to issue
subpoenas for witnesses whose testimony is to be taken be
fore them, and shall have the same power to compel the
tendance of witnesses, and punish contempts, as is given
Justices of the Peace. (4.)
Sec. 416. All subpoenas and process, necessary to the s
cereise of the duties of a master commissioner, shall be I
cecuted and returned by the Sheriff, or any Constable of
le county to whom the same may be directed. (5.)
Sec. 417. Such master commissioner shall be allowed ^
le same fees as other officers for similar services, and
•here no fees are specified, the Court shall make such aluvances
for the service performed, as shall be just and
easonable, and all such costs shall be taxed as a part of
he costs in the case in which they may have accrued. (6.)
Sec. 418. Such master commissioners shall have the F
powers and discharge the duties herein mentioned, which
bave heretofore been performed by masters in chancery, so
far as the same may be consistent with existing laws. (7.)
Sec. 41i). AVhenever the office of Judge shall become
vacant, or, in case of the absence of all the Judges competent to act, or whenever such Judge or Judges, by reason
of interest, is or are, incompetent to act, or unable by rea
son of sickness, such master commissioner shall have all the
power of any Judge in vacation, to grant restraining orders,
injunctions, writs of habeas corpus and writs of ne exeat,
and to appoint receivers, and hear and determine all mo
tions and matters, and make all orders concerning the
same. (8.)
[New Trials.]
Sec. 420. A new trial may be granted in the following
cases :
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court,
jury or prevailing party, or any order of Court, or abuse of
discretion, by which the party was prevented from having
a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.
Fourth. Excessive damages.
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of re
covery, whether too large or too small, where the action is
upon a contract, or for the injury or detention of property.
Sixth. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by
sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.
Seventh. Newly discovered evidence, material for the
party applying, which he could not, with reasonable dili
gence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial and ex
cepted to by the party making the application ; and the
Court, in granting new trials, may allow the same at the
costs of the party applying therefore, or on the costs abiding
the event of the suit, or a portion of the costs, as the justice
and equity of the case may require, taking into considera
tion the causes which may make such new trial necessary.
(352.)
^EC> ^ new tr'a^ sna^ no* De granted on account
of the smallness of the damages in actions for an injury to
the person or reputation, nor in any other action where the
damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.
(353.)
Sec. 422. The application for a new trial may be made
at any time during the term at which the verdict or deci
sion is rendered ; and if the verdict or decision be rendered
on the last day of the session of any Court, or on the last
day of any term, then, on the first day of the next term of
such Court, whether general, special or adjourned. (354.)
Sec. 423. The application must be by motion, upon
written cause, filed at the time of making the motion. The
cause mentioned in the second, third and seventh clauses of section (352) must be sustained by affidavit showing their
truth. (355.)
Sec. 424. Where causes for new trial are discovered,
after the term at which the verdict or decision was ren
dered, the application may be made by a complaint filed
with the Clerk, not later than the second term after the
discovery, on which a summons shall issue, as on other
complaints, requiring the adverse party to appear and an
swer. The application shall stand for hearing at the term
to which the summons is returned executed, and shall be
summarily decided by the Court upon the evidence pro
duced by the parties. But no such application shall be
made more than one year after the final judgment was ren
dered. (356.)
Sec. 425. The provisions of this code respecting trials
by jury, apply, so far as they are applicable, to trials by the
Court. (357.)
[Docketing Actions.]
Sec. 426. The Clerk shall keep an entry docket, wherein
he shall enter all actions in the order in which they are
brought, and the date of issuing the process, and the date
of the judgment. Within three weeks after the adjourn
ment of the Court, he shall make out an issue docket for all
actions then pending; and shall docket therein all cases
which may be commenced previous to the first day of the
next term, in their order, and furnish a copy of the same
for the use of the Court. (358.)
Sec 427. The trial of any issue of fact shall be on or
after the day on which the cause is set on the docket, unless
otherwise agreed by the parties. The assessment of damages
in case of default, shall be on or after the day on which
the default is taken. (360.)
Sec. 428. The entry on the docket shall show whether
or not the summons has been fully served, or notice given
in due time for trial, and whether or not the issues have
been formed. (361.)
Sec. 429. When the summons has been served in due
time on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff1 may dismiss, or continue for further proceedings, his action as to
* those not summoned, or not summoned in time, and proceed
to trial as to the others, or continue as to all of them at his
option. (362.)
Sec. 430. The Circuit Judges of this State shall have
power, and it is hereby made their duty, by proper order,
to arrange and regulate the order of business in their
respective circuits, and in making such order they shall
provide :
First. For the making up of issues and transaction of
probate business.
Second. For the trial of criminal cases.
Third. For the trial of civil cases. (1.)
Sec. 431. The petit jury shall be summDned to appear
on the first day designated for the trials of criminal business and not before After the beginning of the trial term,
the Court shall proceed to try the cases in their regular
order, which trials shall not be delayed or interrupted by
the making up of issues. The Judge shall, as far as prac
ticable, so arrange the cases to be tried by the Court, so
that the sams may be tried after the discharge of the jury,
and such jury shall be immediately discharged when the
issues requiring it shall be disposed of. (2.)
Sec. 432. The Court shall have the pawer, when the
business thereof requires it, to order the impineling of a
special jury for the trial of any cause. (3.)
Sec. 433. An action may be dismissed without prejudice
:
First. By the plaintifff, before the jury retire ; or when
the trial is by the Court, at any time before the finding of
the Court is announced.
Second. By the Court, where the plaintifff fails to ap
pear on the trial.
Third. By the Court, on the refusal to make the neces
sary parties, after having been ordered by the Court.
Fourth. By the Court, on the application of some of the
defendants, where there are others, whom the plaintifff fails
to prosecute with diligence. '
Fifth. By the Court, for disobedience by the plaintifff
of an order concerning the proceedings in the action. In
all other cases upon the trial, the decision must be upon
the merits. (363.)
Sec. 434. The plaintifff may dismiss his action in vacation
by filing with the Clerk a writing to that effect. The
Clerk shall enter such written dismissal in the order book,
and the Court shall enter judgment accordingly at the next
term. The plaintifff shall not be liable to the defendant for
any costs made by him after notice of the dismissal. (364.)
Sec. 435. In any case, where a set-off or counterclaim
^ag keen present^ which in another action would entitle
the defendant to a judgment against the plaintifff, the de
fendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his
claim, without notice, although the plaintifff may have dis
missed his action, or failed to appear. (365.)
Sec. 436. Though all the defendants have been summoned,
judgment may be rendered against any of them,
severally, when the plaintifff would be entitled to judgments
against such defendants, if the action had been against them
severally. (366.)
sECi 437, jf the taking of an account, or the proof of
- . °. . ' "
a tact, or the assessment of damages is necessary to enable
the Court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer,
or after a decision of an issue of law, the Court may take the
accounts, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on con
tract, assess the damages, or may refer the same to a com
missioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained, or
assessed by a jury. (367.)
Sec. 438. Judgment may be given for or against one
or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more
0f several defendants ; and it may, when the justice of the
case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the par
ties on each side, as between themselves. (368.)
Sec. 439. In a suit against several defendants, the
Court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one
or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several judgment is proper. (369.)
Sec. 440. When a trial by jury has been had, and a
general verdict rendered, the judgment must be in coniormity to the verdict. (370.)
Sec. 441. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special finding on particular questions of fact,
the Court shall render the proper judgment. (371.)
Sec. 442. When, upon the statements in the pleadings,
one party is by law entitled to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the Court, though a verdict
has been found against such party. (372.)
Sec. 443. If a set-off, established at the trial, exceed
the plaintifff's claim so established, judgment shall be ren
dered for the excess ; or, if it appears that the defendant is
entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be
given therefore. (373.)
Sec. 444. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for
the delivery of the property, or the value thereof, in case
a delivery can not be had, and damages for the detention.
When the property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and
the defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the de
fendant may be for the return of the property, or its value,
in case a return can not be had, and damages for the tak
ing and withholding of the property. (374.)
Sec. 445. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff
may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled
thereto, any damages which he might have heretofore re
covered for the same cause of action. (375.)
Sec. 446. The judgment must be entered on the order
book and specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the action. (376.)
Sec. 447. Satisfaction of a judgment, or credits thereon,
may be ordered for sufficient cause upon notice and motion.
(377.)
Sec. 448. It shall not be necessary in any action upon
a mortgage, or lien, to give time for the payment of money,
or for doing any other act, but final judgment may, in such
cases, be given in the first instance. (378.)
Sec. 449. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, the sale of
the mortgaged property shall in all cases be ordered. (379.)
Sec. 450. The relief granted to the plaintifff, if there
be no answer, can not exceed the relief demanded in his
complaint; but, in any other case, the Court may grant
him any relief consistent with the case made by the com
plaint, and embraced within the issue. (380.)
Sec. 451. When a judgment is to be executed without
relief from appraisement laws, it shall be so ordered in the
judgment. When a plaintifff has included in one action de
mands subject to the appraisement laws, with demands
made payable without any relief from appraisement laws,
the Court may render separate judgments upon such de
mands. (381.)
Sec. 452. Hereafter all judgments recovered against any
Sheriff, Constable, or other public officer, administrator,
execut0r, or any other person or corporation, or the sureties
of any or either of them, for money collected or received
in a fiduciary capacity, or for a breach of any official duty,
or for money or other articles of value held in trust for
another, shall be collectible without stay of execution, or
benefit of the valuation or appraisement laws of this State.
[Confessing Judgment Without Action. ]
Sec. 453. Any person indebted, or against whom a
cause of action exists, may personally appear in a Court of
competent jurisdiction, and with the consent of the cred
itor, or person having such cause of action, confess judg
ment therefore; whereupon, judgment shall be entered ac
cordingly. (383.)
Sec. 454. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in a writing to be filed and copied into the judgment.
The confession shall operate as a release of errors. (384.)
Sec. 455. Whenever a confession of judgment is made
by power of attorney or otherwise, the party confessing
shall, at the time he executes such power of attorney, or
confesses judgment, make affidavit that the debt is just
and owing, and that such confession is not made for the
purpose of defrauding his creditors. The affidavit shall be
filed with the Court. (385.)
[Judgments in Agreed Cases.]
Sec. 456. Parties shall have the right in all cases,
either with or without process, by agreement to that effect,
to submit any matter of controversy between them, to any
Court that would otherwise have jurisdiction of such cause,
upon an agreed statement of facts, to be made out and signed
by the parties; but it must appear by affidavit that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to
determine the rights of the parties, whereupon the Court
shall proceed to try the same, and render judgment as in
other cases. (386.)
Sec. 457. The statement of the case, the submission
and the judgment, shall constitute the record. (387.)
Sec. 458. The judgment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and in like
manner shall be with costs, subject to an appeal, unless
otherwise provided in the submission. (388.)
[Offer to Confess Judgment.]
Sec. 459t The defendant may at any time before the
trial, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property,
or to the effect therein specified, with costs. If the plain
tiff accept the offer in Court, in the presence of the defend
ant, or give notice of acceptance in writing within five days
and before the trial, judgment shall be entered accordingly.
If the offer is not accepted, or notice of acceptance be not
given as above directed, the offer is to be deemed with
drawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or commented
on before the jury ; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more
favorable judgment, the defendant shall recover from the
plaintifff the costs occasioned subsequent to the time of the
offer. (389.)
Sec. 460. Before an action for the recovery of money
is brought against any person, he may go into the Court of
the county of his residence, or of that in which the person
having the cause of action resides, and offer to confess judg
ment in favor of such person for a specified sum on the
cause of action. Whereupon, if the person, having had
notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and the
time and place of making it, ten days before the first day
of any term of the Court, does not at such term accept the
confession, and should afterwards commence an action upon
such cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered
to be confessed, he shall pay all costs of the action, and on
the trial thereof the offer shall not be deemed to be an ad
mission of the cause of action or amount to which the plain
tiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence. (390.)
Sec. 461. Every indorsement of payment, satisfaction,
or release in whole or in part upon the record or margin
A Co., ri r •
inereot ot any judgment or decree, or upon any execution
or order of sale issued thereon, signed by the judgment
plaintifff or his attorney in fact, or by the assignee of such
judgment-plaintifff (whose assignment is upon or annexed
to the record of such judgment or decree and attested by
the Clerk) when attested by the Clerk upon the record of such
judgment or decree, or by the Sheriff upon such execution
or order of sale, shall operate as a satisfaction or release of
such judgment or decree, or of such part thereof so in
dorsed as paid, satisfied or released, in favor of subsequent
purchasers or lien-holders in good faith. And when sucb
satisfaction, payment or release is entered by an attorney in
fact, such fact shall be noted on the margin of the record or
the execution as the case may be, and such power of attor
ney shall be recorded in the miscellaneous records of the
Recorder's office.
Sec. 462. Hereafter all judgments recovered upon
bonds, written undertakings or recognizances' executed in
any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, shall be collectible
without relief from valuation or appraisements laws of the
State of Indiana.
[Assignment of Judgments.]
Sec. 463. Judgments and decrees of a Court of record,
^ ^ recovery of money, and judgments obtained before
a Justice of the Peace, may be assigned by the plaintifff or
complainant, and the assignees thereof, successively on or
attached to the entry of such judgment or decree, and the
assignment when attested by the Clerk of the Court, or
such Justice of the Peace, shall vest the title to such judg
ment or decree in each assignee thereof successively. (1.)
Sec. 464. Payments or satisfaction on such judgment
or decree, to the assignor, shall be valid if made before
notice of assignment to the judgment-debtor, but not other
wise. (2.)
Sec. 465. In case of assignment, execution shall issue
'n tne narae of the original plaintifff or complainant, but
shall be indorsed by the Clerk or Justice, to be for the
use of the assignee. (3.) »
Sec. 466. Any action^which the plaintifff or complainant
jn gucn judgment or decree might have thereon, may
be maintained in the name of the assignee. (4.)
Sec. 467. Bonds for the delivery of property levied
upon by virtue of such execution shall be to the judgmentplaintifff,
for the use of such assignee ; and all suits anil
proceedings relating to such judgment or decree, or against
any officer on his bond, for neglect of duty relating thereto.
may be against or on relation, or for the use of such
assignee, as the case may require. (5.)
[Costs.']
Sec. 468. In all civil actions the party recovering judgment shall recover costs, except in those cases in which a
different provision is made by law. (396.)
Sec. 469. In actions for money demands on contract,
commenced in the Circuit or Superior Courts, if the plaintiff recover less than fifty dollars, exclusive of costs, he shall
pay costs, unless the judgment has been reduced below fifty
dollars by a set-off, or counterclaim, pleaded and proved
by the defendant, in which case the party recovering judg
ment shall recover costs. When the judgment is reduced
below fifty dollars by proof of payments, the defendant shall
recover costs : Provided, That in all actions on money de
mands on contract, where one or more defendants, neces
sary to a full determination of such cause, are non-residents
of the county in which such suit is brought, but are resi
dents of the State of Indiana, and have been duly served
with process in such action, the plaintifff shall recover costs,
although he may recover judgment for less than fifty dol
lars. (397.)
Sec. 470. In all actions for damages solely, not arising
out of contract, if the plaintifff do not recover five dollars
damages, he shall recover no more costs than damages, ex
cept in actions for injuries to character and false imprison
ment, and where the title to real estate comes in question.
(398.).
Sec. 471. Relators, and persons and corporations for
whose use an action is brought, whether such use is shown
by the pleadings of the plaintifff or defendant, shall be liable
fijr costs jointly with the actual parties to the action ;
but when the State is plaintifff, the relator only shall be
liable, and judgment for costs shall be rendered accord
ingly. (399.)
Sec. 472. In actions where there are several plaintifffs,
or several defendants, the costs shall be apportioned according to the judgment rendered; and where there are
several causes of action embraced in the same complaint,
or several issues, the plaintifff shall recover costs upon the
issues determined in his favor, and the defendant shall re
cover costs upon the issues determined in his favor. (400.)
Sec. 473. When the plaintifff shall, at the same Court,
bring several actions against the defendant, upon demands
which might have been joined in one action, he shall recover costs only in one action, unless it shall appear to the
Court that the actions affect different rights or interests, or
other sufficient reasons exist why the several demands ought
not to have been joined in one action. (401.)
Sec. 474. Plaintiffs who are not residents of this State,
Defore commencing any action, shall file in the office of the
Clerk a written undertaking, payable to the defendant, with
surety, to be approved by the Clerk, for the payment of all
costs which may accrue in the action, to the proper officer
or person ; but the suit shall not be dismissed for want
thereof, if the plaintifff will file, in open Court, upon being
ordered to do so, suph undertaking, which shall include all
previous costs; and the sureties shall be liable in the first
instance as parties. (402.)
Sec. 475. Whenever, in any action an order shall be
made for the payment of any costs, at any time before final
judgment, the Court shall, upon motion of any person in
terested, render judgment for the costs in favor of the
party entitled to receive the same. (403.)
Sec. 476. Fee bills and executions may issue for the
collection of costs in the proper cases against parties to the
action, relators, persons for whose use an action is brought,
and sureties on undertakings for the payment of costs.
(404.)
Sec. 477. In all cases where lands are attached and
judgment rendered in favor of the plaintifff in the Circuit
Court, wherein the sum claimed, or the judgment rendered,
shall be less than fifty dollars, the plaintifff shall recover
costs : Provided, The attachment against the land is sus
tained by the Court. (1.)
[t?08<s of Transcripts.]
Sec. 478. When in any suit pending in any Court in
this State it shall be necessary to procure a transcript of any
judgment or proceeding, or exemplification of any record,
as evidence in such action, the necessary expense of pro
curing such transcript or exemplification shall be taxed with
the other costs in the cause, and recovered as in other
cases. (1.)
[Executions.]
Sec. 479. Writs of execution, as now used for the enforcement of judgments, are modified in conformity to this article [act] and any party in whose favor judgment has
been heretofore or shall hereafter be rendered, may, at any
time within ten years after the entry of judgment, proceed
to enforce the same as provided in this article [act]. (405.)
Sec. 480. After the lapse of ten years from the entry
of judgment, or issuing of an execution, an execution can
be issued only on leave of Court, upon motion, after ten
days personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be
absent or non-resident, or can not be found, when service
of notice may be made by publication, as in an original
action, or in such manner as the Court shall direct ; such
leave shall not be given unless it be established by the oath
of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment
or some part thereof remains unsatisfied and due. (406.)
Sec. 481. When a judgment requires the payment of
money, or delivery of real or personal property, the same
may be enforced in those respects by execution, as pro
vided in this article [act] ; where it requires the performance
of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be
served upon the party against whom it is given, or upon
the person or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to
obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced ; if he
refuse, he may be punished by the Court as for contempt.
(407.)
Sec. 482. There shall be three kinds of executions—
one against the property of the judgment-debtor, one against
his person, and one for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property, or such delivery with damages for
withholding the same, and executions may be issued to
the Sheriffs of different counties at the same time, but the
plaintifff shall pay the costs upon all executions not neces
sary to the collection of his judgment. (408.)
Sec. 483. No execution against the body shall be issued,
while an execution against the property remains unreturned,
nor shall an execution against the property be is
sued, while there is an execution against the body unreturned. (409.)
Sec. 484. When the execution is against the property or body of the judgment-debtor, it may be issued to
the Sheriff of any county in the State. Where it requires
the delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued
to the Sheriff of the county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated. (410.)
Sec. 485. The execution must issue in the name of the
State, and be directed to the Sheriff of the county, sealed
with the seal, and attested by the Clerk of the Court. It
must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court
where and the time when rendered, the names of the par
ties, the amount, if it be for money, and the amount actually
due thereon, and shall require the Sheriff substantially
follows :
First. If it be against the property of the judgm*
debtor, it shall require the Sheriff to.satisfy the judgxx
out of the property of the debtor, subject to execution.
Second. If it be against real or personal property in
hands of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, leg
tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require
Sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of such property.
Third. If it be against the body of the judgment-det»tai
it shall require the Sheriff to arrest such debtor and
mit him to the jail of the county until he shall pay th
judgment or be discharged according to law.
Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the posession <>
real or personal property, it shall require the Sheriff to de
liver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, it
the party entitled thereto ; and may at the same time rtsquire
the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages or rents and
profits, recovered by the same judgment out of the propn
erty of the party against whom it was rendered, subject tdj
execution, and the value of the property for which
judgment was recovered to be specified therein, if a *
ery thereof cannot be had, and shall, in that respect,
deemed an execution against the property. (411.)
Sec. 486. The execution shall be returnable within one
hundred and eighty days from its date. (412.)
Sec. 487. When an execution against the property of
any person is delivered to an officer to be executed, the
goods and chattels of such person within the jurisdiction
of the officer, shall be bound from the time of the delivery;
but if there be several executions, whether issued out of a
Court of record, or by a Justice of the Peace, against the
same defendant in the hands of different officers, that ex
ecution, without regard to the time of its delivery, under
which the first levy is made, shall have the preference, and
all liens created by the prior delivery of any other execu
tion, shall be divested in favor of the execution first
levied. (413.)
Sec. 488. The Sheriff receiving an execution, shall in
dorse thereon the year, mouth, day and hour when he re
ceived it. (415.)
Sec. 489. If it appear upon the face of an execution,
or by the indorsement of the Clerk, that of those against
whom it issued, any one is surety for another, the property
of the principal shall be first sold, unless the surety shall
direct otherwise. (416.)
"1
4
Sec. 490. An execution may be issued and executed on
Sunday, whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintifff,
or some person in his behalf, stating that he will lose his
judgment, as he has reason to fear and believe, unless pro
cess issue on that day. (417.)
Sec. 491. The Clerk shall indorse on such execution
that the defendants are not privileged from service on Sunday.
(418.)
Sec. 492. If the Sheriff die, or go out of office before
the return of any execution, his successor, or other officer
authorized to discharge the duties of the office in such
case, shall proceed thereon in the same manner that the
Sheriff should have done. (419.)
person for the recovery of money or sale of property, he
may, procuring one or more freehold sureties to enter into a
recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail for the defen
dant for the payment of the judgment, together with the in
terest and costs accrued and to accrue, have a stay of exe
cution from the time of signing the judgment, as follows :
First. If thesum for which the judgment was rendered,
inclusive of costs, do not exceed six dollars, for thirty days.
Second. If such sum and costs exceed six, and do not
exceed twelve dollars, sixty days.
Third. If such sum and costs exceed twelve, and do not
exceed twenty dollars, ninety days.
Fourth. If such sum and costs exceed twenty, and do
not exceed forty dollars, one hundred and twenty days.
Fifth. If such sum and costs exceed forty, and do not
exceed one hundred dollars, one hundred and fifty days.
Sixth. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dol
lars, one hundred and eighty days. (420.)
Sec. 494. The bail for stay of execution, may be taken
and approved by the Clerk, and the recognizance entered of
Sec. 495. When the bail is entered after execution
^ clerk immediately notify the Sheriff of
the stay, and he shall forthwith return the execution, noting
his doings thereon. (422.)
Sec. 496. When execution issues for want of bail, before
the term for stay expires, the Clerk shall indorse thereon
the date of the judgment, and that the same is repleviable.
(423.)
Sec. 497. In such case the defendant may have a stay
of execution for the residue of such term, by putting in
bail, to be approved by the Sheriff, and indorsed thereon,
and signed by the bail. (424.)
Sec. 498. The Sheriff, having taken the bail, shall immediately
return the execution, with his doings thereon, to
the Clerk's office, and the recognizance shall be copied by
the Clerk in the execution docket, and shall have the same
force as if taken by the Clerk. (425.)
Sec. 499. AU property levied on before stay of execution,
and all written undertakings for the delivery of per
sonal property to the Sheriff, shall be relinquished by the
officer, upon bail for the stay of execution being entered.
(426.)
Sec. 500. Every recognizance of bail, taken as above
provided, shall have the effect of a judgment confessed,
from the date thereof, against the person and property of
the bail. (427.)
Sec. 501. No execution shall, in any cause, except on
j.ne wr;tten precipe of a party to such suit, his representa
tives or assigns, or of his attorney of record, and no fee
bill shall be issued, unless the same shall be ordered by the
person to whom such fees, or a part thereof, are due ; but
the Clerk shall receive nothing for any fee bill issued for
his own fees. (21.)
Sec. 502. At the expiration of the stay, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk to issue a joint execution against the
property of all the judgment-debtors, and replevin bail ;
but the Sheriff shall first levy upon the property of the
judgment-defendants, if sufficient can be found; if not, he
shall then, without delay, levy the execution upon the
property of the bail. But no property of the bail shall be
sold while property of the original judgment-debtor, sub
ject to the execution, can be found in the county. (428.)
Sec. 503. No stay of execution shall be allowed upon
any judgment recovered against any officer, person or cor
poration, or the sureties of any of them, for money received
in a fiduciary capacity, or for a breach of any official duty.
The Clerk shall issue executions upon such judgments forth
with, returnable in ninety clays, and indorsed "not repleviable," and it shall be so ordered in the judgment. (429.)
Sec. 504. When any Court shall render judgment S
against two or more persons, any of whom are sureties for e
any other or others in the contract on which the judg
ment is founded, there shall be no stay of executiou on the
judgment, if the sureties object at the time of rendering
the judgment; and it shall be so ordered by the Court,
unless the- bail for the stay of execution will undertake
specially to pay the judgment, in case the amount thereof
can not be levied of the principal defendant. (430.)
Sec. 505. Any bail for the stay of execution may file w
with the Clerk an affidavit, stating that he verily believes h
he will be liable for the judgment, interest, and costs there
on, unless execution issues immediately; and the Clerk
shall thereupon issue execution forthwith, unless other suf
ficient bail be entered before the Clerk or Sheriff, as in other
cases. (431.)
Sec. 506. If other sufficient bail be entered, it shall J
have the force of the original bail entered before the filing
of the affidavit, and shall discharge the original bail. (432.)
[Levy.]
Sec. 507. When an execution against the property of
any person is issued to the Sheriff, he shall serve said execution
upon the defendant or defendants in said county,
and levy the same, if not paid, upon property, and make
at least one offer to sell property levied upon, within sixty
days after such execution comes to his hands, if property
can be found, unless otherwise directed by the plaintifff or
plaintifffs, or his or their agents. (433.)
Siic. 508. Current coin and lawful money, and such
bank notes as the plaintifff is willing to receive as money,
may be levied upon and returned on execution, without
sale, as so much money collected. (434.)
Sec. 509. Bills, notes, drafts and checks, or other evidences
of debt, issued by any moneyed corporation, or
bank, or by this State or the United States, and circulating
as money, may be levied upon as personal property, and
sold on executiou. (435.)
Sec. 510. Goods and chattels pledged, assigned or
mortgaged as security for any debt or contract, may be levied upon, and sold on execution against the person making
the pledge, assignment or mortgage, subject thereto, and
the purchaser shall be entitled to the possession, upon complying with the conditions of the pledge, assignment or
mortgage. (436.)
Sec. 511. Shares of stock in any corporation or company
may be levied upon and sold in the county where the
office and books, showing the shares of stock and stock
holders of the corporation or company are kept; and the Sheriff
shall transfer the stock, subject to the rights of the corpor
ation or company. The Sheriff shall have access to the
books of any corporation or company in his county, for the
purpose of making the levy, and, if refused access, the
Court shall enforce the right. The shares of stock subject
to be levied upon, shall be bound by the execution from
the time of the levy, and when such levy is made, the Sheriff
shall leave the notice thereof with the officers of the com
pany, and such levy shall constitute a lien upon the stock
from the time of such levy. (437.)
Sec. 512. Any debt or thing in action, legally or equitably
assignable, may be levied upon, when given up by
the defendant, and sold on execution, in the same manner as
other personal property. (438.)
Sec. 513. The Sheriff making the sale of any such
debt, or thing in action, shall assign and deliver the same
to the purchaser, and the assignment shall have the same
effect as if made by the execution-defendant at the time of
making the levy thereon, and shall be treated as so made.
Sec. 514. In any action in which such assignment is
declared upon or stated, it shall not be necessary to plead
or prove any judgment or execution, by virtue of which the
sale was made, nor to prove the execution of the assign
ment, unless the same be denied under oath. (440.)
Sec. 515. When any execution shall issue against the
res^ or personal property of any person, it shall be^ the
duty of the Sheriff to levy the same, first upon that part of
the property designated by such person, if there be no rea
sonable doubt that he is the owner thereof, and, if desig
nated in time to enable the Sheriff to levy and sell without
unnecessary delay. (441. )
Sec. 516. If no property be thus designated, it shall
be the duty of the Sheriff to levy the execution upon any
property of the debtor which can be found, subject to ex
ecution. (442.)
Sec. 517. If the property thus designated, be insufficient
to satisfy the execution, the Sheriff shall levy the
same upon such other property, subject to execution, as can
be most readily found, sufficient, in addition to the property
designated, to satisfy the execution. (443.)
Sec. 518. In all cases where the personal estate of the P
debtor, subject to execution, is insufficient to satisfy the ex- S
ecutioD, the real estate shall be exempt from levy and sale, d
until the personal estate is levied upon and sold, unless the
debtor shall direct otherwise, and the principal messuage,
lands or tenements of the debtor, or upon which he may
reside, shall not be levied upon, unless other property cau
not be found sufficient to satisfv the execution in the hands
of the Sheriff. (444.)
[Appr a isement. ]
Sec. 519. No property shall be sold on any execution
or order of sale issued out of any Court, for less than twothirds
of the appraised cash value thereof, exclusive of liens
and encumbrances, except where otherwise provided by
law. (445.)
Sec. 520. The Sheriff, immediately upon levying an
execution, shall proceed to ascertain the cash value of the
property levied upon. (446.)
Sec. 521. For that purpose two disinterested householders of the neighborhood where the levy is made shall be
selected as appraisers, one of whom shall be selected by each
of the parties or their agent ; or, in the absence of either party
or his agent, or upon the failure or refusal of either party
after three days' notice by the Sheriff to make the selection,
the Sheriff shall proceed to select the appraisers. They
shall forthwith proceed to appraise the property according
to its cash value at the time, deducting liens and incum
brances; and in case of their disagreement as to the value,
the Sheriff shall select a like disinterested appraiser, and,
with his assistance, shall complete the valuation, and the
appraisement of any two of them shall be deemed the cash
value. (447.)
Sec. 522. In case any appraiser shall fail to act or to
complete such valuation, another shall be chosen in his
stead, as above provided. (448.)
Sec. 523. It shall not be the duty of the Sheriff or appraisers
to ascertain the amount of liens and encumbrances;
but either party may furnish the Sheriff with a list thereof,
with the amount and nature of each. (449.)
Sec. 524. The Sheriff shall furnish the appraisers a
schedule of the property levied on, with the encumbrances
made known to him, and they shall proceed to fix and set
down opposite to each tract, lot or parcel of real estate,
and of the several articles of personal property, the cash
value, deducting liens and encumbrances, which schedule
they shall return to the Sheriff. (450.)
Sec. 525. The appraisers shall take and subscribe an
oath annexed to such appraisement, to the effect that the
property mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of their
judgment, worth the sums specified therein ; that the same
is the fair cash value thereof at the time, exclusive of liens
and encumbrances; which oath the Sheriff is authorized to
administer and attest, when taken and subscribed by the
appraisers. (451.)
Sec. 526. Where any property shall be sold subject to
liens and encumbrances, the purchaser may pay the lien*
and encumbrances, and hold the property discharged from
all claims of the execution-defendant ; or, he may hold the
property subject to be redeemed by the execution defend
ant, his heirs or assigns, by paying to the .purchaser, his
heirs or assigns, the purchase money, with interest. When
redeemed, the purchaser shall have the growing crops, and
shall not be accountable for rents and profits, but he shall
account for waste : Provided, That nothing contained in
this section shall deprive a party from the right to redeem
when authorized by statute. (452.)
Sec. 527. When any property levied on remains unsold,
it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, when he returns the exe
cution, to return the appraisement therewith, stating in his
return the failure to sell, and the cause of the failure. (453.)
^EC. ^8. The lien of the levy upon the property shall
continue, and the Clerk, when directed by the plaintifff, shall
forthwith issue another execution reciting the return of the
former execution, the levy and failure to sell, and directing
the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property un
sold, if the same be sufficient; if not, then out of any other
property of the debtor subject to execution ; but such lien
as to personal property shall continue only for thirty days
(unless a second execution be issued thereon), from the time
of said return, at which time it shall be released as to bona
fide purchasers for value and as to the levies of writs on
other judgments ; and the levy shall, as between the parties,,
be deemed vacated, and as to real property, after six months,
the levy of such writ shall be discharged. (454.)
Sec. 529. Whenever any property levied upon remains
unsold for want of buyers, the plaintifff may cause the
same to be re-offered at any time before the return day or
the execution, at his costs, as often as he may direct ; bui
in case of the sale of the property, the costs of such offe~
and sale shall be taxed against the defendant. Either partj
may have a re-valuatiou of the property, at his costs, after
any offer to sell. (455.)
Sec. 530. Property conveyed by a debtor, with intent
to hinder, delay or defratul creditors, shall be sold without
appraisement. (456.)
[Delivery Bonds.]
Sec. 531. Any personal property taken in execution,
way be returned to the execution-defendant by the Sheriff',
upon the delivery by the defendant to him, of a written
undertaking, payable to the execution-plaintifff, with suf
ficient surety, to be approved by the Sheriff, to the effect
that the property shall be delivered to the Sheriff at a time
and place named in the undertaking, to be sold according
to law, or for the payment to the Sheriff of the appraised
value thereof, or when the same has not been appraised,
then of the fair value of the same. (457.)
Sec. 532. Before the Sheriff shall deliver any part of
the property to the defendant, he shall cause it to be appraised in the manner prescribed by law, when an appraise
ment thereof is required, and the defendant may sell or
•dispose of the property, paying the officer the full ap
praised value thereof. (458.)
Sec. 533. In case of the non-delivery of the property
according to the undertaking, it shall be the duty of the
Sheriff to levy upon and sell the same, or any other property
of the defendant, as soon as practicable, at any time before
the return day of the execution. (459.)
Sec. 534. Upon the forfeiture of the written undertaking,
the officer shall forthwith return it indorsed " for
feited," to the Clerk's office, for the use of the plaintifff.
(460.)
Sec. 535. Such undertaking shall be valid in law, and
an action had thereon whenever the condition thereof is
broken, and on recovery ; the value of the property so taken,
with damages not exceeding ten per cent on the value,
shall be assessed in favor of the plaintifff. But the recovery
shall not exceed the amount due on execution, and ten per
cent on the principal. (461.)
Sec. 536. On judgment obtained on such written uudertaking,
execution shall issue forthwith, without stay,
returnable in thirty days, and the Sheriff shall not return
any property to the execution-defendant levied on thereby,
except upon payment of the judgment. (462.)
Sec. 537. The estate or interest of the j udgment debtor
jn any reaj gg^jg^ s]ia|i uo^ be sold on execution, until the
rents and profits thereof, for a term not exceeding seven
years, shall have been first offered for sale at public auc
tion ; but, if the same shall not sell for a sum sufficient tosatisfy
the execution, then the estate or interest of the
judgment debtor shall be sold by virtue of the execution.
(463.)
Sec. 538. Rents and profits may be sold as other prop
erty, the appraisers setting down the value of each year
separately. (464.)
gEC 539 gu many years, not exceeding such term of
, ,, , ,, ; » ,, b ■,
seven, shall be sold as will satisfy the execution, and no
more, and the Sheriff shall execute a lease to the purchaser
for the term sold. (465.)
Sec. 540. Real estate, including chattels real, taken hy
virtue of any execution, shall be sold at public auction at
the door of the court house of the county in which the
same is situated; and if the estate shall consist of several
lots, tracts and parcels, each shall be offered separately ; and
no more of any real estate shall be offered for sale than shall
be necessary to satisfy the execution, unless the same is not
susceptible of division, except that when real estate which
is not susceptible of division is ordered to be sold on any
decree or judgment, and the same is traversed by the line
between two counlies, it may be advertised and sold in
either county. (466.)
gEC 541 "phe time and place of making sale of real
estate, on execution, shall be advertised by the Sheriff', for
at least twenty days successively, next before the day of sale,
by posting up written or printed notices thereof, in three
public places in the township in which the real estate is
situated, and a like advertisement at the door of the court
house of the county ; and also by advertising the same for
three weeks successively in a newspaper of general circula
tion, printed in the English language, and published in the
county where the real estate is situate : Provided, That if
the Sheriff* shall not be able to procure the publication of
the notice in a newspaper of general circulation, published
within his county, it shall be lawful for him to dispense with
the publication of the notice, and the land may be sold
without such publication, and the Sheriff shall, in his return
of the writ, state his inability to procure the publication,
and such return shall have the same effect in evidence as
the official returns of Sheriffs in other cases. (467.)
Sec. 5-42. Previous notice of the time and place of the
sale of any personal property on execution, shall be given
for ten days successively, by posting up written notices
the same shall be present and subject to the view of those attending
the sale; and it shall be sold at public auction, in
such lots and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the
highest price. (469.)
Sec. 544. If the property levied on shall not sell for a
sum sufficient to satisfy the execution, the Sheriff shall
make a further and sufficient levy, if sufficient property
can be found, and proceed as upon the first levy, and re
turn his doings thereon. (470.)
Sec. 545. The Clerk, upon the return of an execution
unsatisfied, shall issue another execution upon the judg
ment, and indorse thereon the amount of money levied by
the former, if any. (471.)
Sec. 546. Upon the sale of real estate, by virtue of an
execution, and the payment of the purchase-money, the
Sheriff making the sale, or in case of his death or going
out of office, his successor, or any officer authorized to dis
charge the duties of the office, shall execute and deliver to
the purchaser a deed of conveyance for the premises, which
shall be valid and effectual to convey all the right, title and
interest of the execution-debtor therein to the purchaser,
except any right of redemption, as provided by law. (472.)
Sec. 547. In case the purchaser of any real estate upon
execution, having paid the purchase-money therefore, shall
die before a deed of conveyance shall have been executed
to him, the Sheriff shall convey such real estate to the
heirs or devisees of the deceased person. (473.)
Sec. 548. A Sheriff who shall sell any real estate without
giving the previous notice herein directed, or shall sell
the same otherwise than in the manner herein prescribed,
shall forfeit and pay to the party injured, not less than ten,
nor more than two hundred dollars, in addition to such
other damages as the party may have sustained, to be re
covered from the Sheriff, or from him and his sureties, in
an action on his official bond. (474.)
Sec. 549. If any Sheriff or his deputy, making sale of
property on execution, shall, directly or indirectly, purchase
the same, the sale shall be void. (475.)
Sec. 550. Whenever the purchaser of any property
Sold on execution, shall fail or refuse to pay the purchase
money, he shall be liable, on motion to be made by
Sheriff, or the execution-plaintifff or defendant, in
proper Court, five days notice being given, to a judgiail
for the amount of the purchase- money, and damages nof
exceeding ten percent, and interest, with costs, and no st«T
of execution shall be allowed upon the judgment. ( 476.)
Sec. 551. Or the Sheriff may re-expose and sell tb«
-j^gy^ on the same or any subsequent day, according 40
law, and if the amount^ bid at the second sale shall
equal the amount bid at the first sale, and the costs of
second sale, the first purchaser shall be liable for the defifl
iency, and damages thereon, not exceeding ten per cat
and interest and costs, to be recovered by a like notice and
motion as provided in the last section. In case he sells o9
a subsequent day, he shall re-advertise as in other cases.
(477.)
Sec. 552. When any execution shall be issued to any
county, other than the one in which the judgment is rendered, return may be made by mail ; but money can not be
thus sent, except by the direction of the party entitled
thereto, or his attorney. (478.)
Sec. 553. When property shall be sold on execution for
more than will satisfy the execution, including interest and
costs, the Sheriff shall pay the overplus to the executiondebtor
of whom it was levied, or to his assigns, unless he
be notified of the existence of liens, to the payment of
which it ought to be applied, and in that event he shall re
turn the money, to be disposed of as the Court shall direct.
(479.)
[Sheriff to Pay Over Money —His Liability and Return.]
Sec. 554. When the Sheriff has collected any money
on execution, he shall pay over the same at the earliest op
portunity, unless enjoined. (480.)
Sec. 555. If any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to levy
upon or sell any property justly liable to execution,' when
the same might have been done, he shall be amerced to the
value of such property, not to exceed the amount necessary
to satisfy the execution. (481.)
; Sec. 556. If any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return
any execution, as required by law, or shall make a
false return thereon, he shall be amerced in such amount as
he might and should have levied by virtue of the execution.
(482.)
Sec. 557. If any Sheriff shall negh ct or refuse, on demand, to pay over any money collected on execution, to the
execution-creditor, his agent or attorney, or to the execu
tion-debtor, when he is entitled thereto, he shall be
amerced to the amount thus withheld. (483.)
Sec. 558. In all cases specified in the last three sections,
the plaintifff shall, in addition to the amercement, re
cover of the officer, legal interest and damages, not exceed
ing ten per cent on the principal sum recovered. (484.)
Sec. 559.' Such recovery may be had by motion against
the officer, in the proper Court, ten days' notice thereof being given, or by action on the bond of the Sheriff. The
proceedings in this section contemplated, may be com
menced immediately upon the default of the Sheriff, either
before or after the return day of the execution. (485.)
Sec. 560. Every execution shall be returned forthwith,
upon being satisfied by the collection of the money; also,
upon order of the plaintifff or his agent indorsed thereon.
When the return day of an execution falls on Sunday, it
shall be returned on the following Monday. (486.)
Sec. 561. When the Sheriff has sold the property of
a non-resident or other person, upon an execution issued ?
on a judgment recovered against'him in a case where pub
lication is provided for, and no personal notice of the pen
dency of the action was given to such defendant, the plain
tiff shall not be entitled to receive any of the proceeds of
such sale until he has filed in the Clerk's office a written
undertaking, with surety, to be approved by the Clerk, to
the effect that he will refund the money about to be re
ceived by him, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, if
the judgment shall afterwards be annulled or set aside, and
the defendant shall show that the plaintifff's claim is un
founded in whole or in part. But r.urety to refund shall
not be required in cases of attachment. (487.)
Sec. 562. The death of a defendant, aftep the execution
is placed in the hands of the Sheriff to be executed,
shall not affect his proceedings thereon, except that the
amount of property allowed absolutely to the widow of
the decedent, shall be exempt from levy and sale under
such execution. (488.)
[Execution Against the Body!]
Sec. 563. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment against the body of any execution-debtor, except as
hereinafter provided. (489.)
Sec. 564. Before any such execution shall issue, the
plaintifff shall file with the Clerk an affidavit, charging the
debtor with fraudulently concealing, removing, conveying,
or transferring his property subject to execution, with in
tent to defraud and delay the plaintifff, or charging that the
debtor has money, rights, credits or effects, with which the
judgment, or some part thereof, might be paid, and which he
fraudulently withholds, or conceals, with a view to delay
or defraud the creditor. (490.)
Sec. 565. The affidavit need not designate specifically
any property, monies or effects, fraudulently removed,
transferred, concealed, conveyed or withheld by the debtor;
but the jury or Court, in determining the matters in issue
between the parties, if the finding be for the creditor, shall
designate in the finding, the monies, effects, property,
debts or things in action, subject to execution, which have
been thus removed, concealed, transferred, conveyed or
withheld, and the value thereof. (491.)
Sec. 566. Upon the filing of the affidavit, the Clerk
shall issue a notice, requiring the debtor to appear at the
next term of the Court, and show cause why such execution
should not issue against him. (492.)
Sec. 567. After ten days' notice, or after the return of
two notices of " not found," the Court shall hear and de
termine the matters and things contained in the affidavit.
(493.)
Sec. 568. If the debtor shall fail to appear and show
cause, the Court may hear and determine the same in the
absence of the debtor, or a jury for that purpose may be
empaneled, if desired by the creditor. (494.)
Sec. 569. If the debtor appear and plead to the affi
davit any sufficient matter to bar the issuing of the execu
tion, and an issue be taken thereon, the same may be tried
by the Court, or a jury, as in other cases. (495.)
Sec. 570. If the issue be determined against the debtor,
the Court, ifnless good cause be shown, shall forthwith or
der an execution against his body, subject to the rules and
restrictions of the next two sections. (496.)
Sec. 571. If the debtor shall surrender such monejs,
effects, property, debts or things in action, to the use and
for the benefit of the creditor, or pay the value thereof, as
found by the Court or jury, no execution shall for that
cause be issued against his body. (497.)
Sec. 572. If the debtor fail to surrender or pay, as
provided in the preceding section, upon the return of such
finding, an execution shall forthwith issue against his body
upon the judgment. ' (498.)
Sec. 573. The execution against the body shall be
served by arresting the defendant, and, unless discharged
by clue course of law, committing him to the common jail
of the county. (499.)
Sec. 574. If the creditor show in his affidavit that the A
<lcbtor has not been held to special bail in the original p
action, or, having been thus held, has been surrendered by
his bail, and that he has reason to fear, and does fear, that
such debtor will leave the State before the trial and deter
mination of the matters alleged in the affidavit, an order of
arrest and bail shall issue against the debtor, and be served
and returned, as in other cases. (500.)
Sec. 575. The debtor, when arrested on the order of
arrest may enter into a recognizance, with sufficient surety,
for his appearance at the trial of such proceedings, and for
the surrender of his body if an execution be awarded.
(501.)
Sec. 576. The Sheriff may take the recognizance in the
form and by the rules provided in other cases for order a
of arrest and bail, either before or after the debtor is com
mitted to prison, and shall return the same to the proper
Court. The recognizance shall have the same force as in
other cases, and all subsequent proceedings may be had
thereon by the parties and persons interested, as are pro
vided in cases of arrest and bail. (502.)
Sec. 577. No female, or soldier of the revolution, shall
be imprisoned upon any order of arrest and bail, or upon
an execution against the body. (503.)
'[Insolvents Discharged from Custody.]
Sec. 578. Any person arrested or imprisoned on execution may discharge himself from custody by delivering to c
the Sheriff a sufficiency of property, either real or per
sonal, to discharge the debt or damages due on the execu
tion, together with the interest and costs thereon ; or by
delivering to the Sheriff all the property, both real and
personal, which he may have, not included in the finding
of the Court or jury, subject to execution, if any, together
with the property, credits and effects included in the find
ing of the Court or jury, and all his choses in action, if any,
exceeding, with other property retained, the amount ex
empt by law from execution. He shall also make oath
that he has no more or other property, either real or per
sonal, subject to execution, and that he has no monies,
rights, credits or effects in his possession, or under his con
trol, or in the posession or under the control of any other
person for his use, exceeding, with other property retained,
the amount exempt from execution, and that he has neither
directly or indirectly, disposed of, transferred, or concealed,
any of his property, rights, credits, monies, or effects, nor
confessed 'or suffered any judgment with intent to delay or
defraud any of his creditors. (504 )
Sec. 579. For the purpose of enabling the defendant
to take tjie 0.dthl it shall be the duty of the Sheriff, upon
the prisoner's request, to take him before some person au
thorized to administer an oath, who shall reduce the oath
to writing, explain it to the prisoner, and cause him to be
sworn to and subscribe it, and, having certified the oath,
deliver it to the Sheriff, who shall make it a part of his
return, by appending it to the execution. (505.)
Sec. 580. The execution-creditor shall be notified of
the time and place at which the oath will be taken ; the
notice shall be served upon the creditor, or his agent or
attorney, by the Sheriff, if the creditor, his agent or attor
ney, reside in the county; and, if neither reside in the
county, the Sheriff shall post up the notice in the Clerk's,
office five days. (506.)
Sec. 581. When the oath is administered, the execu^
i o n — cred i to r , his agent or attorney, may propound to the
prisoner, any relevant question touching his property, mo
neys, rights, credits and effects, and the person administer
ing the oath shall reduce the questions and answers to writ
ing, and forthwith file the same with the Clerk. (507.)
Sec. 582. When the prisoner has strictly complied with
the foregoing provisions, he shall be discharged. (508.)
Sec. 583. Any property given up by the person under
arrest shall be disposed of by the Sheriff in the same man
ner as property taken on execution against property. (509.}
Sec. 584. The Sheriff shall make return of all his doings therein, the discharge of the debtor, and the sale of the
property, according to the facts, to the Court. (510.)
Sec. 585. The arrest of any person who may die while •
.q CHSt0(jyj shall not discharge the judgment, or any lien
upon property, but the same may be enforced by any legal
proceedings. (511.)
Sec. 586. Any person escaping from custody may be
returajE(j by the same or a new execution against his body,
or his property may be proceeded against iu the same man
ner as if his bodv had never been taken in execution.
(512.)
[Execution and Judgment Dockets^]
<$EC- 587. The Clerk of every Court of record shall
keep a docket, in which he shall enter, within thirty days
after each term of the Court, in alphabetical order, a state
ment of each judgment rendered at such term, containing:
First. The names at length of all the parties.
Second. The amount of the judgment and costs, and
date of its rendition. ■
Third. If the judgment be against several persons, the
statement shall be repeated under the name of each defend
ant in alphabetical order. (513.) ,
Sec. 588. Recognizance of bail for stay of execution
shall be entered in such docket immediately after the taking
or return thereof, specifying the judgment and its amount,
the date of the recognizance and names of the bail. (514.)
Sec. 589. Such docket shall be a record, and open,
during the usual hours of transacting busiuess, to the examination of any person desiring it. (515.)
Sec. 590. Every Clerk neglecting to enter any judgment or recognizance, as herein required, shall be liable to
any person injured, for the amount of damages sustained by
such neglect, to be recovered in an action against the Clerk
alone, or upon his official bond, against him and his sure
ties. (516.)
Sec. 591. The Cleric of every Court of record shall
keep an execution docket, in which he shall enter all executious, as they are issued by him, specifying, in proper
columns, the names of the parties, the amount of the judg
ment, and the interest due at the issuing of the execution,
and the costs, and prepare an additional column, in which
he shall enter at length the return of the Sheriff, and such
docket entries shall be taken and deemed to be a record.
(517.)
[Proceedings Supplementary to Execidion.~]
Sec. 592. When an execution against the property of
the judgment-debtor or any of the several debtors in the
same judgment, issued to the Sheriff of the county where
he resides, or if he do not reside in the State, to the Sheriff
of the county where the judgment is rendered, is returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment-creditor, after
such return is made, shall be entitled to an order, to be is
sued by any Court of record in the cou*ity to which such
execution issued, or by the Clerk thereof in vacation, re
quiring the judgment-debtor to appear forthwith before
the Court, if in session; if the Court is not in session,
then before the Judge thereof, at a time and place to be
specified therein, or on the first day of the next term of the
Court, to answer concerning his property within the county
to which the execution was issued ; and a transcript of a
judgment from a Justice of the Peace filed and docketed in
the Circuit Court, shall for the purposes of this article [act],
have all the effect of a judgment rendered originally in said
Court. (518.) '
Sec. 593. If, after the issuing of an execution against
property, the execution-plaintifff, or other person in his behalf,
shall make and file an affidavit with the Clerk of any
Court of record of any county, to the effect that any judg
ment-debtor, residing in such county, has property, describ
ing it, which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfac
tion of the judgment, the Court, if in session, or the Judge
or Clerk thereof, in vacation, shall issue an order requiring
the judgment debtor to appear forthwith before the Court,
if in session ; if not, at the next term of the Court, or be
fore the Judge thereof, at a time and place to be specified
therein, to answer concerning the same ; and such proceed
ings may, thereafter, be had for the application of the
property of the judgment-debtor towards the satisfaction
of the judgment, as provided upon the return of an execu
tion. (519.)
Sec. 594. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney
gnaj^ a^ tne tjme 0f applying for the order, or at any time
afterwards, make and file his affidavit with the Court, or
the Clerk thereof, in vacation, that there is danger of the
debtor leaving the State or concealing himself, and that
there is reason to believe he has property, rights, credits,
monies or effects, which he unjustly refuses to apply to the
judgment, with intent to defraud the creditor, the Court
shall issue to the Sheriff of the county an order of arrest
and bail. (520.)
Sec. 595. The Sheriff, having taken the executiondebtor
into custody upon the order of arrest, shall require
him to enter into a written undertaking to the plaintifff,
with surety, to be approved by the officer, that he will at
tend before the Court, or Judge thereof, as required, and
abide such order as shall be made; and that he will not, in
the meantime, dispose of any part of his property not ex
empt from execution. In default thereof, he shall be com
mitted to prison ; and, upon breach of such undertaking,
the plaintifff shall* have his remedy thereon to the amount
of the value of the property unlawfully withheld or dis
posed of. (521.)
Sec. 596. After the issuing or return of an execution
against the property of the judgment debtor, or any one of
several debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affida
vit that any person or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in any amount,
which, together with other property claimed by him as ex
empt from execution, shall exceed the amount of property
so exempt by law, such person, corporation, or any member
thereof, may be required to appear and answer concerning
the same as above provided. (522.)
Sec. 597. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify
in the proceeding provided tor in this article [act J \ and
either party may examine the other as a witness, in the
same manner as upon the trial of an issue ; or the plaintifff
may waive the answer of the debtor, and rely upon other
testimony. All such examinations and answers shall be on
the oath of the party, except that when a corporation an
swers, the answers shall be on the oath of an officer thereof.
(523.)
Sec. 598. Upon the hearing, the Judge of the Court
may order any property of the judgment-debtor, not exempt
from execution, in the hands either of himself or any
other person, or any debt due to the judgment-debtor, to be
applied to the satisfaction of the judgment, and forbid
transfers of property and choses in action, and such Judge
or Court shall nave full power to enforce all orders and
decrees in the premises, by attachment or otherwise. (524.)
Sec. 599. Costs shall be awarded and taxed in this proceeding as in other cases, and all proceedings under this article, [act] after the order has been made, requiring
parties to appear and answer, shall be summary, without
further pleadings, upon the oral examination and testimony
of parties and witnesses. But the sufficiency of the order
and of the affidavit first filed by the plaintifff may be tested
bv demurrer, or motion to dismiss or strike out the same.
(525.)
[Real Estate Subject to Judgment and Execution —Sales and
Restitution Thereof.]
Sec. 600. The following real estate shall be liable to all
judgments and attachments, and to be sold on execution
against the debtor owing the same, or for whose use the
same is holden, viz.:
First. All lauds of the judgment-debtor, whether in
possession, remainder or reversion.
Second. Lands fraudulently conveyed with intent to
delay or defraud creditors.
Third. All rights of redeeming mortgaged lands; also,
all lands held by virtue of any land office certificate^
Fourth. Lauds, or any estate, or interest therein, holden
by any one in trust for, or to the use of another.
Fifth. All chattels real of the judgment-debtor.
Sec. 601. All final judgments in the Supreme and Cir
cuit Courts, for the recovery of money or costs, shall be a
lien upon real estate, and chattels real, liable to execution
in the county where judgment is rendered, for the space of
ten years after the rendition thereof, and no longer, exclu
sive of the time during which the party may be restrained
from proceeding thereon by any appeal, or injunction, or
by the death of the defendant, or by agreement of the
parties entered of record. (527.)
Sec. 602. Judgments on bonds payable to the State of
Indiana, shall bind the real estate of the debtor from the
commencement of the action. (414.)
Sec. 603. It shall be the duty of the Clerk of any
Court of record of this State, rendering any judgment, to
make out a certified copy thereof, under the seal of such
Court at the request of any person interested, which copy
may be filed in the office of the Clerk of any Circuit Court
of this State, and when so filed shall be recorded and en
tered in the judgment docket, in the same manner as judg
ments rendered in any such Court. (528.)
Sec. 604. Such judgment, from the time of filing the
copy aforesaid, shall be a lien upon all the real estate, in
cluding chattels real, of the judgment-debtor situated in the
county where filed, as fully as if such judgment had been
rendered thereon. (529.)
Sec. 605. Every recoguizance shall bind the real estate
of the principal from the time it was taken, but shall only
bind the real estate of the surety from the time judgment
of forfeiture is rendered. (531.)
Sec. 606. An execution against properly issued to an
other county, shall bind the real estate of the defendant
from the time of the levy. (532.)
Sec. 607. The reversal of any judgment by virtue of
which any real estate has been sold or transferred, or the title thereto affirmed, shall not avoid the sale, transfer or title, if the person to be effected thereby shall be, or claim
under, a purchaser in good faith, and not a party to the rec
ord or attorney of any party. (533.) <
Sec. 608. In every case of a sale, transfer or confirma
tion of real estate upon execution or by judgment, where
the defendant can not have restitution of his estate, he shall
be entitled to recover of the judgment-plaintifff the full value
of the,estate with interest, when the judgment-plaintifff has
purchased the estate, or had the same confirmed or trans
ferred to him, and when the land lias been sold by the
Sheriff to any other person, he may recover the proceeds of
the sale, with interest, deducting the amount applied to the
costs of the judgment-defendant. (534.)
Sec. 609. In every other case of a reversal of any judg- R
ment, by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or
transferred, or the title confirmed, the judgment-defendant
shall have restitution thereof as follows : (535.)
Sec. 610. He may notify the purchaser or his tenant, N
or other" person in possession, that at the next term he will
move the Court which rendered the judgment, to restore to
him the possession of the premises. (536.)
Sec. 611. Upon proof that the notice has been served H
ten days, the Court may proceed, to hear and determine the j
issues made by the parties, and render judgment accord
ingly, or the judgment-defendant may recover his real es
tate by the ordinary action. (537.)
Sec. 612. No sale of any real estate, made byan exec- S
utor, administrator or guardian, shall be avoided on account of any irregularity or defect in the proceedings, if it
shall appear,
First. That the sale was authorized by the Court hav
ing jurisdiction of the parties and subject matter.
Second. That the executor, administrator or guardian,
gave bond, as required by law, or has accounted for the
proceeds of such sale.
Third. That notice of the time and place of sale was
given in the manner provided by law ; and,
Fourth. That the premises were sold accordingly and
are held by or under one who purchased them in good faith.
(538.)
[Docketing Justices' Judgments, and Proceedings Thereon.]
Sec. 613. It 9hall be the duty of every Justice of the
Peace in this State, when requested by the plaintifff or his
agent, to make out and certify a true and complete tran
script of the proceedings and judgment in any cause, upon
any docket legally in his possession. The plaintifff may
file such transcript in the office of the Clerk of any Court
in this State. (539.)
Sec. 614. . It shall be the duty of the Clerk forthwith
to record the transcript in the order book, and docket the
judgment in the judgment docket. The judgment set forth
in the transcript shall be a lien upon the real property of
the defendant within the county, to the same extent as
judgments of the Court from the time of filing the tran
script. (540.)
Sec. 615. Whenever the plaintifff shall also procure
fr0m the justice a certificate that an execution has been is
sued upon the judgment to the proper Constable, and by
him returned, indorsed that no goods or chattels could be
found sufficient to satisfy the judgment, or a part thereof,
and file the certificate with the Clerk, he shall record it in
the order book, with the transcript, and, upon the plaintifff
or his agent also filing with the Clerk, his affidavit that the
judgment is unpaid, in whole or in part, stating the amount
due, he shall issue an execution upon the judgment, and
indorse the amount to be levied of principal, interest and
costs, which execution shall be issued, served and returned,
in the same manner as executions issued upon judgments
of the Court. (541.)
t [Commissioner to Convey Real Estatei]
Sec. 616. Real property may be conveyed by a commjss;oner appointed by the Court :
First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is
ordered to convey real property to another, or any interest
therein.
Second. Or where real property, or any interest therein,
has been sold, and the purchase-money paid. (542.)
Sec. 617. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer
to the judgment authorizing the conveyance, that the same
may be readily found; but need not recite the record in the
case generally. (543.)
Sec. 618. A conveyance made in pursuance of ajudgment^
gj^j] pasg to faB grantee tne t;tie 0f the parties ordered
to convey the land. (544.)
Sec. 619. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale
ordered by the Court, shall pass to the grantee the title of
all the parties to the action or proceeding. (545.)
^EC' ^ conveyance by a commissioner shall not
right, until it has been examined and approved by
the Court, which approval shall be endorsed on the convey
ance, and recorded with it. (546.)
Sec. 621. It shall be sufficient for the conveyance to be
signed by the commissioner only, without affixing the names
of the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of the
parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.
(547.)
Sec. 622. The conveyance shall be recorded in the R
office in which, by law, it should have been recorded, had it
been made by parties whose title is conveyed by it. (548.)
Sec. 623. In case of a judgment to compel a party to c
execute a conveyance of real estate, the Court may enforce h
the judgment by attachment or sequestration, or appoint a
commissioner to make the conveyance. (549.)
[TAe Execution of Conveyances by Commissioners in Case of
Deceased Vendors of Real Estate."]
Sec. 624. Whenever any person who has executed a title bond or contract for the conveyance of real estate to
any person or corporation, shall die before such conveyance
is executed, and shall have made no legal provisions, by
will or otherwise, for the execution of such conveyance, and
the whole or any part of the purchase-money be unpaid at
his death, the executor or administrator of such deceased
person, may file a petition in the Circuit Court of the
county where the real estate, or any part thereof lies, or
where letters testamentary or of administration are granted,
against the obligee, vendee or assignee, or all of them, as
may be necessary, and also the heirs at law and devisees, if
any, of the deceased, praying in such petition for the ap
pointment of a commissioner to execute a conveyance to the
proper holder of such bond or contract. (1.)
Sec. 625. The Court, in such case, where process has
been served, or publication made as in other cases, may appoint a commissioner to execute a conveyance in conformity
with the requsitions of the title bond or agreement, and to
report such conveyance, as soon as executed, to the Court,
and if the Court shall approve the deed, the same shall be
entered on record and delivered to the executor or admin
istrator. (2.)
Sec. 626 The executor or administrator may tender
such deed to the person to whom such tender should be
made, and demand payment of the purchase-money due and
unpaid. (3.)
Sec. 627. If, upon due tender of the deed-, the person
liable to an action for the recovery of the purchase-money,
refuse to pay the same, such executor or administrator may
maintain an action for the recovery of the purchase-money
due and unpaid against the person thus liable. (4.)
Sec. 628. Appeals may be taken from the Circuit Courts
and Superior Courts to the Supreme Court, by either party,
from all final judgments, except in actions originating be
fore a Justice of the Peace or Mayor of a city, where the
amount in controversy, exclusive of interest and costs, does
not exceed fifty dollars: Provided, however, That this ex
ception shall not apply to prohibit an appeal in cases origin
ating before a Justice of the Peace or Mayor of a city,
involving the validity of an ordinance passed by an incor
porated town or city. The party obtaining judgment shall
not take an appeal after receiving any money paid or col
lected thereon. (550.)
Sec. 629. A part of several co-parties may appeal, but
in such case they must serve notice of the appeal upon all
the other co-parties, and file the proof thereof with the
Clerk of the Supreme Court. Unless they appear, and de
cline to join, they shall be regarded as having joined, and
shall be liable for their due proportion of the costs. If
they decline to join, their names may be struck out, on
motion, and they shall not take an appeal afterwards, nor
shall they derive any benefit from the appeal, unless from
the necessity of the case, except persons under legal dis
abilities. (551.)
Sec. 630. In case of the death of any or all the par
ties to a judgment before an appeal is taken, an appeal
may be taken by, and notice of an appeal served upon, the
persons in whose favor, and against whom, the action might
have been revived, if death had occurred before judgment.
(552.)
Sec. 631. The death of any or all the parties shall not
cause the proceedings to abate ; but the names of the proper
persons being substituted, upon consent or upon notice, the
cause may proceed. (553.)
Sec. 632. When an appeal is taken during the term at
which judgment is rendered, it shall operate as a stay of
all further proceedings on the judgment, upon an appeal
bond being filed by the appellant, with such penalty and
surety as the Court shall approve, and within such time as
it shall direct, payable to the appellee, with condition that
he will duly prosecute his appeal, and abide by aud pay the
judgment and costs which may be rendered, or affirmed
against him ; and if the appeal is taken from a judgment
for the recovery of real property, or the possession thereof,
by the party against whom the judgment for the recovery
is reudered, then the condition of the bond shall further
provide, that the appellant shall also pay all damages which
may be sustained by the appellee for the mesne profits,
waste or damage to the land during the pendency of the
•appeal ; and if from a judgment for the recovery or return
of personal property, or for such property or its value,
then that if he deliver or return the property, he will also
pay the reasonable value of its use, and any damage it may
sustain during the pendency of an appeal. The transcript
shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme
Court, within sixty days after filing the bond. (555.)
Sec. 633. All cases appealed to the Supreme Court,
where bond shall have been filed in the Court below in
term, and execution therein stayed, and the appellants shall
fail to file in the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court
the record of the cause so appealed, within the time re
quired by law, the party in whose favor the judgment may
be in the Court below, may have execution thereon, upon
the filing with the Clerk of the proper Court the certificate
of the Clerk of the Supreme Court, showing that said rec
ord was not so filed in proper time. Provided, however,
That nothing in this section shall be so construed as to
prevent any such appellant from filing the transcript and
perfecting an appeal afterwards, according to law. (1.)
Sec. 634. That in all cases appealed to the Supreme
Court, where the judgment below has been for the recovery
of money, and the same shall be fully and uncondition
ally affirmed in the Supreme Court, the Clerk of the Court
below shall be authorized to issue execution on said judg
ment as soon as the certified copy of the opinion and judg
ment of the Supreme Court so affirming said judgment
shall be filed in his office. (2 )
Sec. 635. After the close of the term at which the
judgment is rendered, an appeal may be taken by the service
of a notice in writing on the adverse party, or his at
torney, and also on the Clerk of the Court in which the
proceedings were had, stating the appeal from the judg
ment, or some specific part thereof; or such appeals may
be taken by procuring from the Clerk of the Court a tran
script of the record, and proceeding in the suit, or so much
thereof as is embraced in the appeal, and filing the same in
the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court, who shall
indorse thereon the time of filing, and issue a notice of the
appeal to the appellee. (556.)
Sec. 636. Whenever it shall appear to the Supreme Court,
by satisfactory proof, that the appellee, in a cause appealed
after the close of the term, is not a resident of this State,
and that a notice of the appeal can not be served upon the
attorney of record in the Court below, the Court may order
that notice of the pendency of the appeal be given in
some newspaper printed and published in this State, for
three weeks successively ; after which the Court shall pro
ceed in all respects as if the defendant had been served
with process.
Sec. 637. Upon the request of the appellant, or upon
being served with notice as aforesaid, and 'in either case
upon the payment of the proper fee, the Clerk shall forthwith
make out and deliver to the party, at his request, or trans
mit to the Clerk of the Supreme Court, a transcript of the
record in the cause, or so much thereof as the appellant, in
writing directs, certified and sealed, to which shall be ap
pended the written directions of the appellant above con
templated, if any. (558.)
SEC. 638. All proper entries made by the Clerk, and all
. . \ r J ci 1 ±1 / i
papers pertaining to a cause, and filed therein, (except a
summons for the defendant, where all the persons named ,io
it have appeared to the action, and summons for witnesses,
depositions, and other papers which are used as mere evi
dence), are to be deemed parts of the record ; but a tran
script of motions, affidavits, and other papers, when they
relate to collateral matters, and depositions, and papers filed
as mere evidence, shall not be certified, unless made a part
of the record by exception, or order of Court, and directed
to be certified by the appellant. Neither shall the Clerk
certify any pleading first filed, when there is an amended
pleading of the same matter subsequently filed, embracing
all the pleading first filed, and the amendments thereto ;
but shall certify such amended pleading only. Every paper
and pleading above excepted, may be made part of the rec
ord by exceptions, or order of the Court, on motion. If
the Clerk should certify matter not material to the deter
mination of the appeal, the Supreme Court may direct the
person blamable therefore to pay the costs thereof: Pro
vided, That when in any case an appeal is prosecuted upon
the question of the correctness of instructions given or
refused, or the modifications thereof, it shall not be necssary
to set out in the record all the evidence given in the cause,
but it shall be sufficient in the bill of exceptions to set out
the instructions or modifications excepted to, with a recital
of the fact that the same were applicable to the evidence in
the cause. (559.)
Sec. 639. Every appeal shall stand for trial at the first
^erm Qf tjle Supreme Court after filing the transcript, when
taken duriug the term of the Court below, and in all other
cases when notice has been served ten days, or publication
made thirty days before the first day of the term. (5G0.)
SEC. 640. Appeals in all cases hereafter tried must be
taken within one year from the time the judgment is rendered.
In all eases heretofore tried they must be taken with
in one year from the time this act takes effect, but the time
allowed the appellant by the pre-existing law, shall not be
enlarged. Where the appellant is under legal disabilities,
at the time the judgment is rendered, he may have his ap
peal at any time within one year after the disability is re
moved. (561.)
Sec. 641. The Supreme Court, upon being satisfied
that the statute of limitations has barred a part only of the
appellants, may strike their names from the record, and
proceed to affirm, or reverse, or modify the judgments, as
to those appellants only who are before the Court. (562.)
Sec. 642. Au appeal taken after the close of the term,
shall not stay execution or other proceedings in the Court
below, unless an order to that effect be granted by the Su
preme Court in term, or any Judge thereof in term or va
cation, which shall be indorsed on the transcript. The
Court or Judge shall, at the time of making the order, di
rect that the appellant shall give bond to the appellee, with
condition as required, when an appeal is taken during the
term at which the judgment is rendered. (563.)
Sec. 643. The appeal bond and surety may be approved
by the Clerk of the Supreme Court, or by the
Clerk of the Court below. And upon the filing of the
bond, execution and all other proceedings on the judgment
in the Court below, shall be stayed; and if execution has
issued, the Clerk shall notify the Sheriff of the appeal and
order to stay proceedings, and the execution shall be forthwith
returned, and any levy made shall be relinquished.
(564.)
Sec. 644. Whenever an order to stay execution of a
judgment is granted, the Clerk of the Supreme Court shall
issue a certificate thereof to the Clerk of the Court below.
(565.)
Sec. 645. Such order shall operate until the determination
of the appeal, unless otherwise ordered by the Court
or a Judge thereof. (566.)
Sec. 646. Executors, administrators and guardians may
have an appeal and stay of proceedings in the Court below,
without giving an appeal bond. (567.)
Sec. 647. No pleadings shall be required in the Su/~i
. ll. 'is ' . /.
pre me Court upon au appeal, but a specific assignment ot
all errors relied upon, to be entered on the transcript in
matters of law only, which shall be assigned on or before
the first day of the term at which the cause stands for trial ;
and the appellee shall file his answer thereto. (568.)
Sec. 648. The Supreme Court may reverse or affirm the
judgment below, in whole or in part, and remand the cause
to the Court below, but the Court shall not reverse the
proceedings any further than to include the first error. If
the Court affirm the judgment, damages may be assessed in
favor of the appellee not exceeding ten per cent upon the
judgment, in money judgments, and in any other cases in
the discretion of the Court; and the Court shall remand
such cause for execution. (569.)
Sec. 649. When the judgment is reversed, in whole or
in part, the Supreme Court shall remand the cause to the
Court below, with instructions for a new trial, when the
justice of the case requires it ; but if no new trial is required,
with particular instructions relative to the judgment to be
rendered, and all modifications thereof ; and whenever any
cause is reversed in the Supreme Court, in whole or in part,
on appeal, and sent back for such further proceedings as
may require a trial, if the opinion and decision of the
Supreme Court in such cause shall have been deposited in
the office of the Clerk of the inferior Court ten days or
more before the first day of any term of such Court, such
cause shall stand for trial at such term ; otherwise it shall
be continued until the next term of such Court. (570.)
Sec. 650. When any cause is determined in the Supreme
Court, the Clerk shall forthwith notify the Clerk of
the Court below that it is determined, and whether reversed
or affirmed, in whole or in part, or dismissed ; at any time
within sixty days after such determination, either party
may file a petition for a re-hearing; if not so filed, the
decision and instructions of the Supreme Court shall be
certified to the Court below, unless otherwise ordered by
the Court. (571.)
Sec. 651. If the death of any or all the parties occur,
after the submission of a cause, judgment shall be rendered
as at the term at which the submission was made, without
any change of parties. (572.)
Sec. 652. When the judgment is affirmed in whole, the
appellee shall recover costs ; and when the judgment is
reversed in whole, the appellant shall recover costs in the
Supreme Court and the Court below, to the time of the
first error for which the judgment is reversed, which shall
be pointed out in the opinion of the Supreme Court. In
all other cases costs shall be awarded as the Court may
deem right, following, as nearly as possible, the general
regulation for awarding costs. (573.)
Sec. 653. The fee paid for procuring the transcript, the
costs of serving the notice of appeal, and the printer's fee
for publication, are a part of the costs of the Supreme
Court. (574.)
Sec. 654. Whenever, on the hearing of an appeal, one
of the Judges of the Supreme Court has been of counsel
in the cause, or is otherwise incompetent to participate in
the decision, and the remaining Judges are equally divided,
the cause shall be continued to the next term, and if then
the Judges shall be equally divided, the judgment shall be
affirmed without costs, and in such case, each Judge shall
give his written opinion of each point in the case arising
upon the record, which shall be reported among the cases
decided by the Supreme Court. (575.)
Sec. 655. Appeals to the Supreme Court may be taken
from an interlocutory order of any Circuit Court, or Judge
thereof, in the following cases:
First. For the payment of money, to compel the execu
tion of any instrument of writing, or the delivery or assign
ment of any securities, evidences of debt, documents, or
things in action.
Second. For the delivery of the possession of real prop
erty, or the sale thereof.
Third. Granting or dissolving, or overruling motions
to dissolve, an injunction in term, and granting an injunc
tion in vacation.
Fourth. Orders and judgments upon writs of habeas
corpus made in term or vacation. (576.)
Sec. 656. Such appeal may be taken at the term of the
Court at which the order is made, or when made in vaca
tion the appeal may be taken at the time or during the
next term; the appeal shall not be granted until the appel
lant has filed an appeal bond, as in other cases of appeal.
(577.)
Sec. 657. Such appeal shall not stay proceedings upon
the order more than thirty days, unless the Supreme Court
in term, or some Judge thereof in term or vacation, shall
otherwise order. (578.)
Sec. 658. Executions issued from the Supreme Court
shall be the same as those of other courts of record, and
shall be returnable as in other cases. (579.)
Sec. 659. No judgment shall be stayed or reversed, in
whole or in part, by the Supreme Court, for any defect in
form, variance or imperfections contained in the record,
pleadings, process, entries, returns, or other proceedings
therein, which by law might be amended «by the Court be
low, but such defects shall be deemed to be amended in the
Supreme Court ; nor shall any judgment be stayed or re
versed, in whole or in part, where it shall appear to the
Court that the merits of the cause have been fairly tried
and determined in the Court below. (580.)
Sec. 660. No appeal shall be dismissed for any inforniality
or defect in the transcript or appeal bond, if the
appellant shall .correct the informality or defect within a
reasonable time. When an appeal has been dismissed for
want of prosecution, the Court may reinstate it at the same
or the next term, good cause being shown. When any ap
peal has been dismissed another appeal may be taken. (581.)
Sec. 661. All questions of fact to be determined in the
Supreme Court, shall be tried according to rules to be
adopted by the Court. (582.)
Sec. 662. The proceedings of the Court for every day
of tne term slia11 I)e drawn up at full length by the Clerk,
against the next sitting of the Court, and such corrections
being made therein as shall be necessary and right, and
shall be signed by the Chief Judge of the Court. (583.)
Sec. 6*53. The Clerk shall docket all appeals in the
or(]ei. ;„ wnicll tne transcripts are filed, and they shall be
heard in the same order, unless the Court, for good cause
shown, direct a different mode of hearing. (58-1.)
Sec. 664. Any appellate Court shall have full power to
, . c . ' .1 J i*» . F .
compel any interior Court, board, or otticcr exercising judicial
functions, or other person, to certify to such Court a full
and complete transcript of t lie records and proceedings of
any such tribunal, board, officer, or person, and the produc
tion of any paper, whenever it shall be necessary for the
proper determination of any cause or proceeding pending
before the appellate Court. The breach of any order may
be punished as a contempt. (585.)
[Proceedings to Review Judgment.]
Sec. 665. Any person who is a party to any judgment,
or the heirs, devisees or personal representatives of a de
ceased party, may rile in the Court where such judgment is
rendered, a complaint for a review of the proceedings and
judgment. Any person under legal disabilities, may file
such complaint at any time within one year after the disa
bility is removed. But no complaint shall be filed for a
review of a judgment of divorce. (586.)
SEC. 606. The complaint may be filed for any error of
law appearing in the proceedings and judgment, within one
year; or for material new matter, discovered since the ren
dition thereof, within three years; or for both causes,
within one year after the rendition of the judgment, and
without leave of Court. (587.)
Sec. 667. When the complaint for a review is filed for
new matter discovered since the rendition of the judgment, ^
it shall be verified by the complainant, and show that the
new matter could not have been discovered before judgment
by reasonable diligence, and that the complaint is filed
without delay after the discovery. (588.)
Sec. 668. At any time after filing the complaint, and s
before the final hearing, the Court may, upon application
of the plaintifff", stay all further proceedings on the judg
ment. When proceedings are stayed, the Court shall direct
bond and suretv to be given, as in cases of appeal.
(589.)
Sec. 669. The defendant shall be notified of the filing
of such complaint, and the parties shall proceed to form
issues of law and fact as in other cases. (590.)
Sec. 670. Upon the hearing, the Court may reverse or
affirm the judgment, in whole or in part, or modify the C
same, as the justice of the case may require, and award costs
according to the rule prescribed for the awarding of costs
in the Supreme Court, on appeal. (591.)
[actions in takticular cases.]
[To Recover the Possession of Real Property and to De
termine Conflicting Claims Thereto.]
Sec. 671. Any person having a valid subsisting interest
in real property and a right to the possession thereof, may
recover the same by action to be brought against the tenant
in possession ; if there is no such tenant, then against the
person claiming the title or some interest therein. (592.)
Sec. 672. Whenever it appears that the defendant is
■only a tenant, the landlord may be substituted, reasonable
notice thereof being given. (593.)
Sec. 673. When the defendant is a non-resident, service
may be had upon his agent for the property, residing in the
State, with the like effect as though made upon the princi
pal, or service may be had by publication, as in other
cases. (594.)
Sec. 674. The plaintifff in his complaint shall state that
ne j8 en^itlecl to the possession of the premises, particularly
describing them, the interest he claims therein, and that the
defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession. (595.)
Sec. 675. The answer of the defendant may contain a
denial of each material statement or allegation in the com
plaint ; under which denial the defendant shall be permit
ted to give in evidence every defense to the action that he
may have, either legal or equitable. (596.)
Sec. 676. Where the defendant makes defense, it shall
not be necessary to prove him in possession of the prem
ises. (597.)
Sec. 677. The plaintifff can not recover for the use and
occupation of the premises for more than six years next be
fore the commencement of the action ; but may recover in
the same action for use and occupation up to the time of its
termination. (598.)
Sec. 678. If the interest of the plaintifff expire before
the time in which he could be put in possession, he shall
obtain a judgment for damages only. (599.)
Sec. 679. Where there are two or more plaintifffs or
defendants, any one or more of the plaintifffs may recover
against one or more of the defendants, the premises or any part thereof, or interest therein, or damages according to
the right of the parties ; but the recovery shall not be for a
greater interest than that claimed. (600.)
Sec. 680. The Court rendering the judgment, on application
made within one year thereafter, by the party against
whom judgment is rendered, his heirs, assigns or representa
tives, and on the applicant giving and undertaking with
surety to be approved by the Court or Clerk, that he will
pay all costs and damages which shall be recovered against
him in the action, shall vacate the judgment and grant a
new trial. The Court shall grant but one new trial under
the provisions of this section. (601.)
Sec. 681. If the application for a new trial is made
after the close of the term, at which the judgment is ren
dered, the party obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite
party ten days notice thereof, before the term next succeed
ing the the granting of the application. (602.)
Sec. 682. The result of the new trial, if application
therefore is made after the close of the term at which the
judgment is rendered, shall, in no case, affect the interest of
third persons, acquired in good faith, for a valuable con
sideration, since the former trial. (603.)
Sec. 683. But the party who, on such new trial, shows
himself entitled to the lands which have thus passed to the
hands of a purchaser, in good faith, may recover the proper
amount of damages against the other party, either in the
same or in subsequent actions. (604.)
Sec. 684. In an action against a tenant the judgment
shall be conclusive evidence against the landlord who has
received notice as hereinbefore provided. (605.)
Sec. 685. The plaintifff must recover on the strength of
his own title. (606.) ^
Sec. 686. The Court, on motion, and after notice to the
opposite party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing
the party applying therefore, to enter upon the property in
controversy, and make survey and admeasurement thereof
for the purposes of the action. (607.)
Sec. 687. The order must describe the property, and a
copy thereof must be served upon the owner or person
having the occupancy and control of the land. (608.)
Sec 688. When the plaintifff, in an action of this nature, is entitled to damages for withholding or using or injuring
his property, the defendant may set off the value of
any permanent improvements made thereon, to the extent
of such damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the
law for the benefit of occupying claimants. (609.)
Sec. 689. In case of wanton aggression on the part of
a defendant, the jury may award exemplary damages.
(610.) ' '
Sec. 690. An action may be brought by any person
either in or out of possession, or by one having an interest
in remainder or reversion, against another who claims title
to, or interest in, real property adverse to him, although
the defendant may not be in possession thereof, for the pur
pose of determining and quieting the question of title.
(611.)
Sec. 691. The rules above prescribed, shall in such cases,
be observed as far as they are applicable, and in partition
cases, where the title to real estate is bona fide in question,
upon the pleadings and evidence between the parties.
(612.)
Sec. 692. If in such cases the defendant disclaim in his
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer judgment to be taken against him witho'ut answer, the defend
ant shall recover costs. (613.)
Sec. 693. In an action by a tenant in common, or joint
tenant of real property, against his co-tenant, the plaintifff
must show, in addition to his evidence of right, that the
defendant either denied the plaintifff's right, or did some act
amounting to such denial. (614.)
[Occupying Claimants.].
Sec. 094. When an occupant of land has color of title
thereto, and in good faith has made valuable improvements
thereon, and is afterwards, in the proper action, found not to
be the rightful owner thereof, no execution shall issue to put
the plaintifff in possession of the property after filing the
complaint hereinafter mentioned, until the provisions of
this act are complied with. (615.)
Sec. 695. The complaint must set forth the grounds on
which the defendant -seeks relief, stating, among other
things, as accurately as practicable, the value of the im
provements ou the lands, as well as the value of the lands
aside from the improvements. (616.)
Sec. 696. All issues joined thereon shall be tried as in
other cases, and the Court or jury trying the cause shall
assess :
First. The value of all lasting improvements made
aforesaid on the lands in question, previous to the com
mencement of the action for the recovery of the lands.
Second. The damages, if any, which the premises may
have sustained by waste or cultivation to the time of ren
dering judgment.
Third. The fair value of the rents and profits which
may have accrued, without the improvements, to the time
of rendering judgment.
Fourth. The value of the estate which the successful
claimant has in the premises, without the improvements.
Fifth. The taxes, with interest, paid by the defendant,
and by those under whose title he claims. (617.)
SEC. 697. The plaintifff in the main action may there
upon pay the appraised value of the improvements, and
the taxes paid, with interest, deducting the value of the
rents and profits, and the damages sustained, as assessed on
the trial, and take the property. (618.)
Sec. 698. Should he fail to do this, after a reasonable
time, to be fixed by the Court, the defendant may take the
property, upon paying the appraised value of the land,
aside from the improvements. (619.)
Sec. 699. If this be not done within a reasonable time,
to be fixed by the Court, the parties will be held to be ten
ants in common of all the lands, including the improve
ments, each holding an interest proportionate to the value
of his property, as ascertained by the appraisement above
contemplated. (G'20.)
SEC. 700. The purchaser in good faith at any judicial
. iii /v> i i
or tax sale, made by the proper person or officer, has color
of title within the meaning of this act, whether such person or officer had sufficient authority to sell or not, unless
the want of authority was known to the purchaser at the
time of the sale; and the rights of the purchaser shall pass
to his assignees or representatives. (621.)
Sec. 701. Any occupant of land who can show a connected title in law or equity, derived from the records of
any public office, or who holds the same by purchase or de
scent from any person claiming title derived as aforesaid,
or by deed duly recorded, has color of title, within the
meaning of this article. (622.)
Sec. 702. The occupying claimant may recover the
value of lasting improvements made by the party under
whom he claims, as well as those made by himself; and any
person holding the premises as a purchaser, by an agree
ment in writing from the party having color of title, shall
be entitled to this remedy. (623.)
Sec. 703. The plaintifff shall be entitled to an execution
for the possession of his property, in accordance with"
the provisions of this article, but not otherwise. (703.)
Sec. 704. Whenever any land sold by an executor, ad. . .. „, „ < . „ ^ ' .
ministrator, guardian, Sheriff, or Commissioner ot Court,
is afterwards recovered in the proper action by any person
originally liable, or in whose hands the land would be liable
to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for whose bene
fit the land was sold, or any one claiming under such per
son, the plaintifff shall not be entitled, after the filing of the
complaint, to a writ for the possession without having paid
the amount justly due, as determined under the provisions
of the following section within the time therein stated.
(625.)
Sec. 705 The defendants in the main action, or any of
them, may file their complaint, setting forth the sale and title under it and any other matter contemplated in this ar
ticle [act]. Proceedings shall then be had, as aforesaid, to
determine the amount of purchase-money paid with interest,
the value of the lasting improvements, the damages, if any,
which the premises have sustained by waste or cultivation,
the value of the rents and profits, and the taxes paid. If
any balance remain due from the plaintifff in the main ac
tion the Court shall fix a reasonable time within which he
shall pay the same, and if it not be paid within that time,
the Court shall order the land to be sold without relief
from valuation or appraisement laws. In case of sale there
shall be paid the costs of the proceedings, and the anion
due the defendant with interest, and the surplus, if
shall be paid to the plaintifff. (626.)
[For Waste.]
Wrongs heretofore remediable by action ofSec. 706
waste, shall be subjects of action, as other wrongs in which
there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate
of the party offending, and eviction from the premises. Judg
ment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor*
of the person entitled to the reversion against the tenant i»
possession when the injury to the estate in reversion shall
be adjudged in the action to be equal to the value of the
tenant's estate, or unexpired term, or to have been done in
malice. (627.)
Sec. 707. A person seized of an estate in remainder or
reversion may maintain an action for waste or trespass, for
iujury to the inheritance, notwithstanding an intervening
estate for life or years. (18.)
[Joint Tenants.]
Sec. 708. A joint tenant, or tenant in common, or ten
ant in coparcenary, may maintain an action against his cotenant
or coparcener, or their personal representatives, for
receiving more than his just proportion. (16.)
[For Nuisance]
Sec. 709. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent,
or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free vse
of property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfort
able enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the
subject of an action. (628 )
Sec. 710. Such action may be brought by any person
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal
enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance. (629.)
Sec. 711. Where a proper case is made, the nuisance
may be enjoined or abated, and damages recovered there
for. (630.)
[Foreclosure of Mortgages.]
Sec. 712. When default is made in the performance of
any condition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee, or
his assigns, may proceed in the Circuit Court of the county
where the land lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption
contained in the mortgage. (631.)
Sec. 713. When there is no express agreement in the
mortgage, nor any separate instrument given for the pay-"
ment of the sum secured thereby, the remedy of the mort
gagee shall be confined to the property mortgaged. (632.)
Sec. 714. In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the
Courts shall give personal judgment against any party to
the suit liable upon any agreement or agreements for the
payment of any sum or sums of money secured by the
mortgage, and shall order the mortgaged premises, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the mortgage,
and judgment and costs of the action, to be first sold be
fore levy of execution upon other property of the defend
ant. The payment of the mortgage debt, with interest and
costs, at any time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.
(633.)
Sec. 715. Upon the foreclosure of any mortgage in the
Circuit Court of any county in this State, and upon the
payment and satisfaction of such judgment, as may be ren
dered in such proceeding in the foreclosure, in said Court,
the Clerk thereof shall immediately thereafter enter satis
faction of said mortgage, on the records of the Recorder's
office of such county, if the same shall have been recorded :
Provided, That the record in foreclosure, and satisfaction
thereof, shall show that the whole debt, secured by such
mortgage, has been paid. Such Clerk shall tax a fee of
forty cents in each case of foreclosure, requiring satisfaction,
which shall be paid as other costs in such cases: twenty
cents of which he shall pay to the Recorder for his serv
ices, retaining twenty cents for his own services. (1.)
Sec. 716. When there is an express written agreement
e . i xi»xL i? J a • J •
for the payment ot the sum of money secured, contained in
the mortgage, or any separate instrument, the Court shall
direct in the order of sale that the balance due on the mort
gage and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the sale
•of the mortgaged premises, shall be levied of any property
of the mortgage-debtor. (634.)
Sec. 717. The copy of the order of sale and judgment
shall be issued and certified by the Clerk, under the seal of
the Court, to the Sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to
sell the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, interest and costs, as upon
execution, and if any part of the judgment, interest and
costs remain unsatisfied, the Sheriff shall forthwith proceed
to levy the residue of the other property of the defendant.
,(635.)
Sec. 718. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his
mortgage while he is prosecuting any other action for the
same debt or matter which is secured by the mortgage, or
while he is seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in
such other action ; nor shall he prosecute any other action
for the same matter, while he is foreclosing his mortgage, or
prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure. (636.)
Sec. 719. Whenever a complaint is filed for the fore
closure of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any
interest, or installment of the principal, and there are other
installments not due, if the defendant pay into Court the
principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before
final judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed ; if such
payment be made after final judgment, proceedings thereon
shall be stayed, subject to be enforced upon a subsequent
default in the payment of any installment of the principal,
or interest, thereafter becoming due. In the final judg
ment, the Court shall direct at what time and upon what
default any subsequent execution shall issue. (637.)
Sec. 720. In such cases the Court shall ascertain whether
the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done
without injury to the interest of the parties, the Court
shall direct so much only of the premises to be sold as will
be sufficient to pay the amount then due on the mortgage,
with costs, and the judgment shall remain and be enforced
upon any subsequent default, unless the amount due shall
be paid before execution of the judgment is perfected. (638.)
Sec. 721. If the mortgaged premises can not be sold
in parcels, the Court shall order the whole to be sold, and
the proceeds of the sale shall be applied, first to the pay
ment of the principal due, interest and costs, and then tothe
residue secured by the mortgage and not due; and if
the residue do not bear interest, a deduction shall be made
therefrom by discounting the legal interest. And in all
cases where the proceeds of sale shall be more than suffi
cient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be
paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs or assigns. (630.)
Sec. 722. Whenever an execution shall issue upon a
judgment recovered for a debt secured by mortgage of real
property, the plaintifff shall indorse thereon a brief descrip
tion of the mortgaged premises, and the equity of redemp
tion shall in no case be sold on such execution. (640.)
Seg. 723. In all cases where judgment has heretofore
been, or shall hereafter be, recovered against one or more
persons jointly liable on contract, but such judgment has
been, or shall be, rendered only against part of the persons
liable, for the reason that the others were not summoned
and did not appear, the plaintifff may proceed against those
not summoned, and who did not appear, in the same man
ner as if they were alone liable, but the complaint must
allege the facts aforesaid. (641.)
Sec. 724. In ease of the death of any judgment-debtor,
the heirs, devisees or legatees of such debtor, or the
tenant of real property, owned by him and affected by the
judgment, and the personal representatives of the decedent,
may, after the expiration of one year from the time of
granting letters testamentary, or of administration upon
the estate of the decedent, be summoned to show cause why
the judgment should not be enforced against the estate of
the judgment-debtor, in their hands respectively. (642.)
Sec. 725. The judgment-creditor, his representatives
or attorney, shall file an affidavit that the judgment has not
been satisfied, to his knowledge, or information and belief,
and shall specify the amount due thereon, and the property
sought to be charged. (643.)
Sec. 726. A summons shall be issued, served and returned,
or publication may be made, as in other cases;
issues shall be formed, and be -tried as in an original suit ;
and the Court shall order the property of the decedent in
the hands of the heirs, devisees or legatees, or in the hands
of the tenant of real property, to be sold to pay the judg
ment and costs in the manner required by the judgment.
(644.)
Sec. 727. When two or more persons shall be jointly
liable on a contract or judgment, and either of them shall
die, his estate, executors and administrators, shall be liable
for the failure to perform the contract, and for the payment
of the judgment, to the same extent and in the same man
ner as if such contract or judgment were joint and several.
(645.)
[Xe Exeat."]
Sec. 728. Actions may be commenced upon any agreement in writing, before the time for the performance of the
contract expires, when the plaintifff or his agent shall make
and file an affidavit with the Clerk of the proper Court,
that the defendant is about to leave the State without per
forming or making provisions for the performance of the
contract, taking with him property, monies, credits or ef
fects subject to execution, with intent to defraud the plain
tiff. (664.)
Sec. 729. Upon such affidavit being filed, the Clerk
shall issue an order of arrest and bail, directed to the
Sheriff, which shall be issued, served and returned, in all
respects, as such orders in other cases. Before such order
shall issue, the plaintifff shall file in the office of the Clerk,
a written undertaking, with sufficient surety, to be ap
proved by the Clerk, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay
the defendant such damages and costs as he shall wrong
fully sustain by occasion of the suit. (605.)
Sec. 730. The Sheriff shall require the defendant to
enter into a recognizance of special bail, with sufficient
surety, personally to appear on the first day of the Court,
at its next term, and abide the order of the Court, and in
default thereof, the defendant shall be committed to prison
until discharged in due course of law; such special bail,
shall be liable for the principal, and shall have a right to
arrest and deliver him up as in other cases, and the defend
ant may give other bail. (666.)
Sec. 731. Instead of giving special bail, as above pro
vided, the defendant shall be entitled to his discharge from
custody, if he will secure the performance of the contract,
to the satisfaction of the Court. (667.)
Sec. 732. This proceeding may be had in favor of any
surety, or other person, jointly bound with the defendant ;
it may also be prosecuted by the person in whose favor the
contract exists, against any one or more of the persons
bound thereby, upon filing such affidavit, when the cocontractors
are non-residents, or probably insolvent, or at
the reqnest of any one of them, when they are residents and
solvent. (668 )
Sec. 733. The defendant may have the same remedy
by writ of habeas corpus, as in other cases of arrest and
bail. (669.)
Sec. 734. The proceedings may be had before Justices
of the Peace, in all cases within their jurisdiction. (670.)
Sec. 735. The affidavit and written undertaking may
be filed, and proceedings had in any county where the de
fendant may be found. (671.)
Sec. 736. Any person bound as surety upon any contract
in writing for the payment of money, or the performance of any act, when the right of action has accrued, may
require, by notice in writing,. the creditor or obligee forth
with to institute an action upon the contract. (672.)
Sec. 737. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed
within a reasonable time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution,
the suretv shall be discharged from all liability thereon.
(673.)
Sec. 738. When any action is brought against two or
more defendants upon a contract, any one or more of the
defendants, being surety for the others, the surety may,
upon a written complaint to the Court, cause the question
of suretyship to be tried and determined, upon the issue
made by the parties, at the trial of. the cause, or at any
time before or after the trial, or at a subsequent term ; but
such proceedings shall not affect the proceedings of the
plaintifff. (674.) ' '
Sec. 739. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of
the surety, the Court shall make an order directing the
Sheriff to levy the execution, first upon, and exhaust the
property of the principal, before a levy shall be made upon
the property of the surety, and the Clerk shall endorse a
memorandum of the order on the execution. (675.)
Sec. 740. When any defendant surety in a judgment
or special bail or replevin bail, or surety in a delivery-bond
or replevin-bond, or any person being surety in any under
taking whatever, has been or shall be compelled to pay any
judgment, or any part thereof, or shall make any payment
which is applied upon such judgment by reason of such
suretyship, or when any Sheriff or other officer, or any
surety upon his official bond, shall bd compelled to pay any
judgment, or any part thereof, by reason of any default of
such officer, except for failing to pay over money collected,
or for wasting property levied on, the judgment shall not
be discharged by such payment, but shall remain in force
for the use of th« bail, surety, officer, or other person mak
ing such payment, and after the plaintifff is paid, so much
of the judgment as remains unsatisfied may be prosecuted
to execution for his use. (676.)
Sec. 741. Any one of several judgment-defendants,
and any one of several replevin-bail, having paid and satisfied the plaintifff, shall have the remedy provided in the
last section against the co-defendants or co-sureties, to col
lect of them the rateable proportion each is equitably bound
to pay. (677.)
Sec. 742. No surety or his representatives shall confess
judgment, or suffer judgment by default, in any case, when
he is notified that there is a valid defense, if the principal
will enter himself defendant to the action, and tender to
the surety or his representative good security to indemnify
him, to be approved by the Court. (678.)
Sec. 743. Whenever any person seeks a remedy against
another, for whom he has discharged a debt, or claim upon
contract, in whole or in part, made payable without any
relief from valuation or appraisement laws, for which he
was bound as surety or otherwise, the remedy of such per
son shall also be enforced without any relief from such
laws. (679.)
^EC" ^"ne f°re£om& provisions of this article shall
extend to heirs, executors and administrators of deceased
persons ; but the provisions concerning sureties giving no
tice to the creditor, shall not operate against persons under
legal disabilities. (680.)
Sec. 745. In any case when a surety on any bill, note,
bond or other instrument in writing, shall be compelled to
pay the debt or obligation of the principal debtor, such
surety shall recover such rate of interest on the amount so
paid by him for his principal, as was originally provided
for in such bill, note, bond or other instrument in writing,
held against such principal debtor, and the judgment
therein shall bear the same rate of interest, not exceeding
ten per centum per annum. (1.)
Sec. 746. The writ heretofore known as the writ of ad
g^rf damnum shall hereafter be known as the writ of as
sessment of damages. (683.)
Sec. 747. Any person or persons desirous of erecting
on his or their own land, a flouring mill or other machin
ery, to be propelled by water, and who do not own the
lands below the proposed site for such mill or machinery,
may make a raceway through such lands below, so that the
water may flow from such proposed mill or machinery into
the river or creek below, upon the person or persons desir
ing to make such raceway, paying to the person or persons
entitled thereto, the equitable value of the land taken for
the purposes of such raceway, and such other damages
as the same may occasion to said owner or owners; and also
pay to the person or persons entitled thereto, the damages
which such raceway may occasion to the owner or owners of
other land below the said proposed mill or machinery;
which damages shall be assessed as in other cases. (1.)
Sec. 748. A writ of assessment of damages may be
had by application to the Circuit or other proper Court of
the county, where the damages to be assessed may be occa
sioned, under the regulations and in the cases following :
First. By any person owning the land on one side of a
water course upon which he desire^to erect a mill or other
machinery to be propelled by water, to authorize him to
take and assess the value of a portion of land on the oppo
site bank, not exceeding one acre, belonging to another
person, whereon to abut a dam to be erected across the
water course.
Second. To take and assess the value of such portion
of the land, in a like case, upon which a milldam has been
abutted with the consent of the owner.
Third. To assess the probable amount of damages to
the lands, creek or spring of another, or the improvements
thereon, by the overflow of water or otherwise, which may
be occasioned by any milldam already erected, or proposed
to be erected.
Fourth. To assess the damages which may be occasioned
to any person by the waters of any river, creek or spring
becoming stagnant by means of any milldam already
erected or proposed to be erected.
Fifth. To authorize the removal of obstructions in the
race and water course below any mill, and assess the dam
ages to be occasioned thereby, if any.
Sixth. To determine the height to which any person
about to build, or having built a dam, may raise the same
at any time, without causing back water to flow upon any
other mill works situated above, on the same water course.
Seventh. To authorize any person, being the owner of a
dam across any water course, or having a right to build
such dam, for the purpose of propelling a mill or other
machinery by water, upon his own land situated below the
dam, where there is intermediate land of another person,
to make a race, excavation or embankment, through such
intermediate land.
Eighth. To authorize any person to divert water at his
own dam, or upon his own land, from the bed of any water
course in which any other person has an interest, for the
purpose of using the water in propelling machinery upon
the land of the person diverting it.
Ninth. To authorize any person injured in any manner
by a milldam already built^ to have the damages assessed
or the dam declared a nuisance, as the case mav require.
(684.)
Sec. 749. The plaintifff shall particularly describe the
locality of his mill and dam, also, the lands upon which he
desires the damages to be assessed, the object contemplated
as the case may require, and the full name and residence of
any person legally interested, or in whose favor damages
may be assessed, and m^ke them defendants. (685.)
Sec. 750. The jury shall consist of disinterested freeholders,
not less than six, nor more than twelve, the num
ber to be fixed by the Court; but no person owning land
adjoining that upon which the damages are to be assessed,
or upon which the mill may be situated, shall serve as ju
ror. (686.)
Sec. 751. Upon the application being made, the Court
• • ■ v • •
may order the Clerk to issue a writ, reciting the material part of the application, and directing the Sheriff to empanel
a jury, to meet upon the land described in the applica
tion, on a day to be fixed by the Sheriff, who shall give to
the plaintifff and defendant ten days' notice, if they reside
within the State, if not, then to their agent or attorney, if
any reside in the county, if not, then notice may be given
by publication, as in case of non-residents. (687.)
Sec. 752. When the jury are empaneled and sworn,
having met at the place designated, they shall be charged
by the Sheriff as to each duty required of them, aud they
shall, to the best of their skill and judgment, and according
to the exigency of the case when required,
First. View and assess at its true value, the land pro
posed for an abutment, and set off the same, not exceeding
one acre, by metes and bounds.
Seco7id. Examine the lands above and below the dam,
the property of the defendants described in the writ, and
report whether the lands, mansion house, gardens, or any
improvements or appurtenances thereto belonging, will be
overflowed or otherwise injured, and assess the amount of
damages, if any.
Third. They shall inquire whether the navigation of
the stream will be obstructed, and the health of the neigh
borhood annoyed or injured, and if so by what means the
obstructions, annoyance and injury can be prevented.
Fourth Whether such proposed mill or machinery will
be of public utility.
Fifth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by
constructing a race, excavation or embaukment through the
intermediate lands of another.
Sixth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by
diverting the water from the bed of a water course.
Seventh. Assess any other damages that may be sustained
by any defendant. (688.) ,
Sec. 753. When any of the parties to be affected by the
application are infants, they shall appear by a guardian appointed by the Court. (689.)
Sec. 754. The Sheriff shall, when the Court so directs, employ the County Surveyor, or some other compe- s
tent surveyor, to assist the jury in determining any height,
distance, or quantity of land, or any other fact necessary to
be determined by the jury. (690.)
Sec. 755. Dither party may challenge jurors, and compel
the attendance of witnesses to testify as to any matters
to be determined upon by the jury, in like manner as in
the trial of civil actions. (691.)
Sec. 756. Either party may attend and point out to
the jury the place where the mill and dam are to be situated, the high water and low water marks, and the local
extent of the supposed injury to the land. (692.)
Sec. 757. The jury shall, in all cases, inspect the localities
described in the writ. (693.)
Sec. 758. If, from any cause, the inquest can not be
held on* the day fixed, the Sheriff may adjourn to, or fix
any subsequent day, previous to the return day ; and the
inquest maybe adjourned from day to day, or to a future
day, previous to the return day, when necessary. #(694.)
Sec. 759. The inquest shall be signed by the jurors,
and forthwith returned by the Sheriff, to the office of the
Clerk of the Court. (695.)
Sec. 760. The Sheriff shall show in his return the service of the notice required, and no person shall be bound
by the proceedings, unless named in the writ and notified.
(696.)
Sec. 761. Any defendant may appear and traverse any
material fact therein stated in the 'nquest, or he may plead
or show any valid matter in bar of the right of the plaintifff
to have the benefit of such writ, and issues of law and of
fact may be made up and tried, and the Court may adjudge
costs therein, and proceedings had as in other actions.
(697.)
Sec. 762. The Court may render judgment and issue
execution for any amount of damages assessed by the juiy
against any such person owning or wishing to build any
mill or mill dam, in favor of the party entitled to damages,
if desired by the party thus entitled. (698.)
Sec. 763. If it shall appear on the inquest or other evidence,
that any mill, curtilage or garden, of any person will
be, or has been, overflowed or injured, or the health of the
neighborhood annoyed, the Court shall not give leave to
build the mill dam, but if none of those injuries have ac
crued, nor will likely accrue, the Court may allow the ap
plication, if otherwise proper. (699.)
after having erected his mill dam, no damages shall be allowed,
and the application shall be dismissed, unless the
case be such, that leave would have been given to build a
mill, if the application had been filed before the erection of
the mill dam. (700.) .
Sec. 765. Water shall not be diverted from the bed of
water course, by the authority of this act, to the injury
of any mill or machinery already erected, or in the process
of erection. (701.)
Sec. 766. The plaintifff shall not be invested with any
rights under these proceedings until he pays or tenders the
damages assessed, which must be done within one year after
the assessment is confirmed, and not afterwards. On pay
ment being made, he shall be seized in fee simple, of the
land appropriated for abutting a dam, or for a race, excava
tion or embankment. If he fails to complete the mill and
dam, or race, excavation or embankment, within three
years after the inquest is confirmed, or to put the same in
repair fit for use, within two years after being 'destroyed or
injured, %uch land shall revert to its original owner, his
heirs or assigns. If, at the time of destruction or injury,
the owner is under legal disabilities, he may repair the
premises within two years after the disability is removed.
(702.)
Sec. 767. Any assessment of damages confirmed by
the Court, and paid within a year after confirmation, shall
bar a recovery for the same in any other action. (703.)
Sec. 768. When the water, backed up by any mill dam,
is about to break the banks of the stream, so as to turn the
water thereof out of its ordinary channel, whereby such
mill or machinery will be injured, the owner or occupier
thereof, if he do not own such banks, or the lands lying
contiguous, may, if necessary, enter thereon, and erect and
keep in repair such embankments and other works as shall
be requisite to prevent such injury, committing no unnec
essary waste or damage. But the owner of the bank may
recover the actual damages sustaiued. (704.)
Sec. 769. If any person shall injure, destroy or remove
any such embankment or other works, the owner or
occupier of the mill or machinery may recover of such
person all damages which he may sustain by reason of such
injury, destruction or removal. (705.)
Sec. 770. When any person, corporation, or company,
design to construct a canal, or railroad, or turnpike, graded,
macadamized, or plank road, or bridge, or establish a ferry,
as a work of public utility, although for private profit, be
ing authorized by law to take real property therefore, such
person, corporation or company may have a writ of assess
ment of damages. (706.)
Sec. 771. Such person, corporation, or company, may
file an application for a writ in the Circuit Court, or in vacation in the office of the Clerk thereof, setting forth the
precise description of the real estate desired to be taken,
the names of the persons interested therein, making them
defendants, and the purposes to which the same is to be
converted, and refer to the law which authorizes the taking
of the property. The Clerk shall thereupon issue to the
Sheriff, a writ of assessment of damages, reciting therein
the material part of the application, and direct the Sheriff
to assess the damages by a jury. (707.)
Sec. 772. The Court, upon the application, or the Clerk
io vacation, shall determine the number of jurors, at not
less than six nor more than twelve, who shall be disinter
ested freeholders, not owning land within one mile of any part of the public way, for which the land is taken. (708.)
Sec. 773. The Sheriff shall proceed to hold the inquest,
and his proceedings thereon, and the rights of the parties,
and the persons interested, and the duty of the jurors,
and their proceedings, shall be in all respects according to
the provisions of this article, as far as the same are appli
cable. (709.)
Sec. 774. Any person having an interest in any land
which has beeii or may be taken for any such public work,
may have the benefit of this writ upon his own application,
made as above provided, upon which like proceedings shall
be had as in case of applications made by the corporation,
company, or person prosecuting the work. (710.)
Sec. 775. In estimating any damages under this article,
no deduction shall be made for any benefit that may be
supposed to result to the owner, from the contemplated
work. (711.)
Sec. 776. The Sheriff shall administer the proper oaths
to the jurors, surveyor and witnesses, in all cases contemplated by this article. (712.)
. Sec. 777. Costs shall be awarded in all these cases, as
in civil actions. (713.)
[Habeas Corpus.]
Sec. 778. Every person restrained of his liberty, under
any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas
corpus to inquire into the cause of the restraint, and shall
be delivered therefrom when illegal. (714.)
Sec. 779. Application for the writ shall be made by
complaint, signed and verified either by the plaintifff, or by
some person in his hehalf, and shall specify :
First. By whom the person in whose behalf the writ is
applied for, is restrained of his liberty ; and the place where ;
naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing
them if they are not known.
Second. The cause or pretense of the restraint, accord
ing to the best of the knowledge and belief of the appli
cant.
Third. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what
the illegality consists. (715.)
Sec. 780. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by
the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county in which the
fiersou applying therefore may be restrained of his or her
iberty, or by the Judges of said Courts, whether in term
or vacation ; or if said Judges be absent from their circuits,
or by reason of sickness, or other cause, be unable or be in
competent to hear and determine the same, then by any such
Judge of any adjoining circuit, and upon application, the
writ shall be granted without delay. (716.)
Sec. 781. The Criminal Circuit Judges of this State
shall have full power to issue writs of habeas corpus, within
their respective counties, and hear and determine the same
in favor of all persons arrested and held upon any charge
in violation of the criminal laws of this State, and admit
to bail, or discharge the prisoner, in the same manner and
to the same extent, and under the same rules and regula
tions, as Judges of the Circuit Courts are now authorized
by law to do, and not otherwise, nor to any greater extent.
oo
Sec. 782. The writ shall be directed to the office or party
having the person under restraint, commanding him to have
such person before the Court or Judge, at such time and
place as the Court or Judge shall direct, to do and receive
what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and
there the writ. (717.)
Sec. 783. If the writ be directed to the Sheriff, it shall
delivered by the Clerk to him without delay. (718.)
Sec. 784. If the writ be directed to any other person,
shall be delivered to the Sheriff, and shall be by him
rved by delivering the same to such person without
lay. (719.)
Sec. 785. If the person to whom such writ is directed
n not be found, or shall refuse admittance to the Sheriff,
ie same may be served by leaving it at the residence of
le person to whom it is directed, or by affixing the same
a some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house or
here the party is confined or under restraint. (720.)
Sec. 786. The Sheriff or other person to whom the
rrit is directed, shall make immediate return thereof, and
f he refuse after due service to make return, the Court
hall enforce obedience by attachment. (721.)
Sec. 787. The return must be signed and verified by
the person making it, who shall state,
First. The authority or cause of the restraint of the
party in his custody.
Second. If the authority be in writing, he shall return
a copy and produce the original on the hearing.
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or under
his restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall
state to whom, the time, place and cause of his transfer.
He shall produce the party on the hearing, unless prevented
by sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the
return. (722.)
Sec. 788. The Court or Judge, if satisfied of the truth
of the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to
decide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned
until the party can be produced, or for other good cause.
The plaintifff may except to the sufficiency of, or controvert
the return, or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in
avoidance ; the new matter shall be verified, except in cases
of commitment on a criminal charge; the return and plead
ings may be amended without causing any delay. ('23.)
Sec. 789. The Court or Judge shall thereupon proceed
in a summary way to hear and determine, the cause ; and if
no legal cause be shown for the restraint, or for the continuation thereof, shall discharge the party. (724.)
Sec. 790. No Court or Judge shall inquire into the
legality of any judgment or process, whereby the party is
m custody, or discharge him when the term of commitment
has not expired in either of the cases following :
First. Upon process issued by any Court or Judge of
the United States, where the Court or Judge«has exclusive
jurisdiction ; or,
Second. Upon any process issued on any final judgment
of a Court of competent jurisdiction ; or,
Third. For any contempt of any Court, officer or body
having authority to commit ; but an order of commitment
as for contempt, upon proceedings to enforce the remedy of
a party, is not included in any of the foregoing specifica
tions.
Fourth. Upon a warrant issued from the Circuit Court
upon an indictment or information. (725.)
Sec. 791. No person shall be discharged from an order
°f commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for
want of bail or in cases hot bailable, on account of any de
fect in the charge or process, or for alleged want of proba
ble cause ; but in all such cases the Court or Judge shall
summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal
charge, discharge, let to bail, or re-commit the prisoner, as
may be just and legal, and recognize witnesses when proper.
(726.)
Sec. 792. The writ may be had for the purpose of
letting a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions. (727.)
Sec. 793. When any person has an interest in the detention,
the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person
having such interest is notified. (728.)
Sec. 794. The Court or Judge shall have power to require and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all
other acts necessary to determine the case. (729.)
Sec. 795. No Sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a
cjyjj &Qi\on for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order
of discharge made thereon. (730.)
Sec. 796. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that
anV* one 1S illegally held in custody or restraint, and that
there is good reason to believe that such person will be car
ried out of the jurisdiction of the Court or Judge before
whom the application is made, or will suffer some irrepar
able injury before compliance with the writ can be enforced,
such Court or Judge may cause a warrant to be issued, re
citing the facts and directed to the Sheriff or any Constable
of the county, commanding him to take the person thus
held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before
the Court or Judge, to be dealt with according to law.
(731.)
Sec. 797. The Court or Judge may also, if the same
be deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for
the apprehension of the person charged with causing the
illegal restraint. (732.)
Sec. 798. The Officer shall execute the writ by bringing
the person therein named before the Court or Judge,
and the like return and proceedings shall be required and
had as in case of writs of habeas corpus. (733.)
Sec. 799. The Court or Judge may make any temporary
orders in the cause or disposition of the party, during
the progress of the proceedings, that justice may require.
The custody of any party restrained may be changed from
one person to another by order of the Court or Judge. (734.)
Sec. 800. Any writ or process authorized by this article [act] may be issued and served, in cases of emergency,
on Sunday. (735.)
Sec. 801. All writs and other process, authorized by
the provisions of this article [act], shall be issued by the Clerk
of the Court, and, except summonses, sealed with the seal
of such Court; and shall be served and returned forthwith,
unless the Court or Judge shall specify a particular time
for any such return. And no writ or other process shall
be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is shown
to notify the officer or person of the purport of the pro
cess. Amendments may be allowed, and temporary com
mitments, when necessary. (736.)
Sec. 802. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in
favor of parents, guardians, masters and husbands ; and to
enforce the rights, and for the protection of infants and
insane persons; and the proceedings shall, in all such cases,
conform to the provisions of this statute. (737.)
[Mandate and Prohibition.}
Sec. 803. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue
p I n i n i • c\ i
trom the Supreme and Circuit Courts oi this State ; but
such writs shall issue from the Supreme Court only when
necessary for the exercise of its functions and powers. (738.)
Sec. 804. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior
tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the
performance of an act which the law specially enjoins, or a
duty resulting from an office, trust or station. (739.)
Sec. 805. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and
motion, and shall be attested and sealed, and made returnable #s the Court shall direct ; and the person, body or tribunal
to whom the same shall be directed and delivered,
shall make return, and for neglect to do so shall be pro
ceeded against as for a contempt. (740.)
Sec. 806. The first writ shall be in the alternative or
peremptory, as the Court shall direct. (781.)
Sec. 807. Whenever a return shall be made to any
such writ, issues of law and fact may be joined, and like
proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues and render
ing judgment as in civil actions. (742.)
Sec. 808. In case a verdict shall be found for the
plaintifff where the writ is in the alternative, or if judgment
is given for him, he shall recover damages as in an action
for a false return, against the party making the return, and
a peremptory writ shall be granted without delay. (743.)
Sec. 809. The Court shall have the same power to
enlarge the time of making a return, and pleading to such
writ, and for filing any subsequent pleadings, and to con
tinue such cause as in civil actions. (744.)
Sec. 810. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by
attachment and fine, or imprisonment, or both. (745.)
Sec. 811. The writ of prohibition shall command the
Court and party to whom it shall be directed to refrain
from any further proceedings in the matter therein specified,
until the return of the writ and the further order of the
Court thereon ; and upon the return, to show cause why
they shall not be absolutely restrained from any further
proceedings in the matter. .(746.)
Sec. 812. The Court shall render judgment, either that
a prohibition absolute, restraining the Court and party from
proceeding in the matter, do issue; or authorizing the
Court and party to proceed in the matter in question. (747.)
Sec. 813. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings
as in civil actions. (748.)
[Informations."]
Sec. 814. An information may be filed against any
,. • ,l /■ 11 ■
person or corporation in the following cases:
First. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or
unlawfully hold or exercise any public office, or any fran
chise within this State, or any office in any corportion
created by the authority of this State.
Second. Whenever any public officer shall have done
or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law shall
work a forfeiture of his office.
Third. Where any association or number of persons
shall act within this State as a corporation, without being
legally incorporated.
Fourth. Or where any corporation do, or omit acts
which amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of their rights
and privileges as a corporation, or when they exercise
powers not conferred by law. (749.)
Sec. 815. The information may be filed by the Prosecuting
Attorney in the Circuit Court of the proper County,
upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty
to do so, or shall be directed by the Court or other com
petent authority ; or by any other person on his own
relation, whenever he claims an interest in the office,
franchise or corporation, which is the subject of the inform
ation. (750 )
Sec. 816. The information shall consist of a plain state
ment of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, addressed to the Court. (751.)
Sec. 817. Whenever an information shall be filed
against a person for usurping an office, by the Prosecuting
Attorney, he shall also set forth therein the name of the
person rightfully entitled to the office, with an averment of
his right thereto; and when filed by any other person, he
shall show his interest in the matter, and he may claim the
damages he has sustained. (752.)
Sec. 818. Whenever an information is filed, a summons
shall issue thereon, whfch shall be served and returned as in other actions. The defendant shall appear and
answer, or suffer default, and subsequent proceedings be
had as in other cases. (753.)
Sec. 819. In every case contesting the right to an office,
judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the par
ties, and for the damages the relator may show himself entitled to, if any, to the time of the judgment. (754.)
Sec. 820. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relator,
he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office after he has been qualified, as required by law, and the
Court shall order the defendant to deliver over all the
books and papers in his custody, or within his power, be
longing to the office from which he shall have been
ousted. (755.)
Sec. 821. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to
deliver over the books and papers, pursuant to the order,
the Court or Judge thereof, shall enforce the order by at
tachment and imprisonment. (756.)
Sec. 822. When the judgment is rendered in favor of
the plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in
the information, have his action for the damages at any
time within one year after the judgment. (757.)
Sec. 823. When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same office or franchise, one information may be filed
against any or all such persons, in order to try their re
spective rights to the office or franchise. (758.)
Sec. 824. Whenever any person shall be found guilty
of any usurpation of, or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any office, or any franchise within this State, or
any office in any corporation created by the authority of this
State, or when any public officer thus charged, shall be
found guilty of having done or suffered any act which, by
the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office ;
or when any association or number of persons shall be found
guilty of having acted as a corporation, without having been
legally incorporated, the Court shall give judgment of
ouster against the defendant, and exclude him from the
office, franchise or corporate rights; and in cases of cor
porations, that the same shall be dissolved, and the Court
shall adjudge costs in favor of the plaintifff. (759.)
Sec. 825. If judgment be rendered against anv oor.
. • A 1 • • . i
poration, or against any persons claiming to be a corpora
tion, the Court may cause the costs to be collected by
execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation,
or by attachment against the directors or other officers of
the corporation, and shall restrain the corporation, appoint
a receiver of its property and effects, take an account, and
make a distribution thereof among the creditors The
Prosecuting Attorney shall immediately institute proceed
ings for that purpose. (760.)
Sec. 826. Whenever any property shall escheat, or be
forfeited to the State for its use, the legal title shall be
deemed to be in the State from the time of the escheat or
forfeiture ; and an information may be filed by the Prosecu
ting Attorney iu the Circuit Court for the recovery of the
property, alleging the ground on which the recovery is
claimed; and like proceedings and judgment shall be had,
as in a civil action for the recovery of property. (761.)
Sec. 827. When an information is filed by the Prose
cuting Attorney, he shall not be liable for costs ; but when
it is filed upon the relation of a private person, he shall be
liable for costs, unless the same are adjudged against the
defendant (762.)
^EC' information may De prosecuted for the
purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent, certifi
cate or deed granted by the proper authorities of this State,
when there is reason to believe that the same were obtained
by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a material
fact, or when the patentee, or those claiming under him,
have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms on
which the letters, deed or certificates were granted, or have
by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under
the *ame. (763.) ^
Sec. 829. In such cases the information may be filed
by the Prosecuting Attorney, upon his relation, or by any
private person, upon his relation, showing his interest in
the subject-matter, and the subsequent proceeding, judg
ment of the Court, and awarding of costs, shall conform to
the above provisions, and such letters patent, deed or cer
tificate shall be annulled or sustained according to the right
of the case. (764.)
[attorneys, and miscellaneous provisions.]
[Attorneys.l
Sec. 830. A civil action may be prosecuted or defended
by a party in person or by attorney, except that a
corporation appears by attorney in all cases. (765.)
Sec. 831. Every person of good moral character, being a voter, on application, shall be admitted to practice
law in all the Courts of justice. But a jury may be demanded upon the question of character by any citizen of
the county. Moral character may be proved by any evi
dence satisfactory to the Court or jury trying the ques
tion ; and any person desiring admission to the bar, may,
upon motion, be examined touching his learning in the law,
by the Judge, or a committee of the bar whom the Judge
may select for that purpose. If he shall be found, by rea
son of his learning, qualified to practice the law, as well as
otherwise qualified, he shall be admitted to the practice,
which shall be entered of record. A roll of attorneys shall
be kept in every Court, and no name shall be placed thereon
except su,ch as are thus shown to be qualified to practice
law by reason of their learning therein. (760.)
Sec. 832. "Whenever any person has been admitted to
practice law in a Court of record in any county, he shall
be entitled to receive from the Clerk, a certificate of ad
mission, which shall authorize him to practice law in all
the Courts of this State; but any Court may, at any time,
inquire into and determine for itself, the moral character of
anv person practicing or offering to practice law in such
Court. (767.)
Sec. 833. Any Court may permit an attorney who is
not a resident of this State to practice law therein, during
any terra of such Court, upon his taking an oath for the
faithful discharge of his duties. (768.)
Sec. 834. Every person, before proceeding to dis
charge the duties of an attorney %shall take an oath to sup
port the Constitution of the United States and of this State,
and that he will faithfully and honestly discharge the du
ties of an attorney at law, which oath shall be entered in
the order book of the Court. (769.)
Sec- 835- At eacn term of the Court, the Clerk shall
furnish the Court with a list of the names of all the attor
neys having business in such Court. (770.)
Sec. 836. It shall be the duty of an attorney :
First. To support the Constitution and laws of the
United States and of this State.
Second. To maintain the respect that is due to the
Courts of justice and judicial officers.
Third. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceed
ings or defenses, only, as appear to him legal and just ; but
this section shall not be construed to prevent the defense
of a person charged witli crime, in any case.
.Fourth. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means, only, as are consistent
with truth, and never seek to mislead the Court or jury by
any artifice or false statement of fact or law.
Fifth. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and, at
every peril to himself, to preserve the secrets of his client.
Sixth. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a
party or witness, unless required by the justice of the cause
with which he is charged.
Seventh. Not to encourage either the commencement or
the continuance of an action or proceeding from any motive
of passion or interest.
Eighth. Never to reject, from any consideration per
sonal to himself, the cause of the defenseless or oppressed.
(771.)
Sec. 837. An attorney has authority, until discharged
1JI ,i ' " °
or superseded by another,
First. To bind his client in an action or special pro
ceeding, by his agreement, filed with the Clerk, or entered
upon the minutes of the Court, and not otherwise.
Second. To receive money claimed by his client in an
action or special proceeding, during the pendancy thereof
or afterwards, and, upon the payment thereof, and not
otherwise, to discharge the claim, or acknowledge satisfac
tion of the judgment. (772.)
Sec. 838. No judgment shall be rendered against any
party upon the agreement of an attorney, nor any judgment by default, where the party has not been notified,
or personally entered his appearance, unless the written au
thority of the party be first produced, and its execution
proved to the satisfaction of the Court. (773.)
Sec. 839. The Court or Judge may, on motion of either
party, and on showing reasonable ground therefore, or without such motion, require an attorney to produce and prove
the authority under which he appears, and until he does so,
may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party
for whom he assumes to appear. (774.)
Sec. 840. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney
appears, that he does so without authority, the
Court may, at any stage of the proceedings, relieve such
party from the consequences of the attorney's act. It may,
also, summarily, upon motion, compel the attorney to re
pair the injury consequent upon his assumption of author
ity. (775.)
Sec. 841. An attorney who is guilty of deceit or collusion,
or consents thereto, with intent to deceive a Court
or Judge, or a party to an action or judicial proceeding, is
punishable for a misdemeanor, and shall also forfeit to the
party injured, treble damages, recoverable in a civil action.
(776.)
Sec. 842. Any Court of record may suspend an attorney
from practicing therein for any of the following causes:
First. When he has been convicted of a felony, or of a
misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude, in either of which
cases the record of conviction is conclusive evidence.
Second. When he is guilty of a willful disobedience or
violation of the order of Court, requiring him to do or for
bear, an act connected with or in course of his profession.
Third. For a willful violation of any of the duties of
an attorney, as hereinbefore prescribed. (777.)
Sec. 843. When an attorney, on request, refuses to
deliver over money or papers to a person from whom or for
whom he has received them, in the course of his professional
employment, whether in an action or not, he may be re
quired:, after reasonable notice, on motion of any party ag
grieved, by ah order of the Court in which an action, if
any, was prosecuted, or if no action was prosecuted, then
by the order of any Court of record, to do so, within a
specified time, or show cause why he should not be punished
for contempt. (778.)
Sec. 844. In cases contemplated in the last preceding section, on such motion, or in an action brought by the
party aggrieved, the Court may suspend the attorney from
practice in any of the Courts of this State, for any length
of time, in its discretion ; judgment may also be rendered
for the amount of money withheld, deducting feer, if any
are due, and costs paid by the attorney, with ten per cent
damages, which may be enforced by execution, without the
benefit of stay or appraisement laws, and returnable within
thirty days. The Court may also render any judgment and
make any order respecting papers or property withheld, that
may be necessary to enforce the right of the party aggrieved,
subject to any liens the attorney may have thereon for fees.
(779.)
Sec. 845. The proceedings to remove or suspend an
attorney, may be commenced by the direction of the Court,
or on motion of an individual. In the former case, the
Court must direct some attorney to draw up and prosecute
the accusation ; in the latter case it may be drawn up by
any person, and sworn to by the person making it. Such
accusation may be filed in any Court in which the attorney
practices, and after five days' notice of the filing, the attor
ney shall be bound to appear and plead to the same; or
suffer judgment by default. If he appear, pleadings may
be filed and trial had as in other cases. (780.)
Sec. 846. In proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney,
a judgment of acquittal shall be final and without
appeal. But from a judgment of suspension or removal,
or any other judgment against an attorney, the accused may
appeal to the Supreme Court, in the same manner as from
a judgmeut in a civil action. A motion may be made at
any time to reinstate an attorney who has been suspended
or removed. (781.)
[Miscellaneous Provisions^]
Sec. 847. An answer or other pleading shall be rejected
as sham, either when it plainly appears upon the face
thereof, to be false in fact, and intended merely for delay,
or when shown to be so by the answers of the party to
special written interrogatories propounded to him, to
ascertain whether the pleading is false, and all surplusage,
tautology and irrelevant matter shall be set aside and struck
out of any pleading when pointed out by the party
aggrieved. (77.)
Sec. 848. When a new party is introduced into an action
as a representative or successor of a former party, such new
party is entitled to the same notice, to be given in the same
manner as required for defendants in the commencement of
an action. (786.)
Sec. 849. The time within which an act is to be done,
as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the
first day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday,
it shall be excluded. (787.)
Sec. 850 Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery,
or whoredom, falsely made by any person against a female;
also, words falsely spoken of any person, charging such
person with iucest, or the infamous crime against nature,
either with mankind or the brute creation, shall be action
able in the same manner as in the case of slanderous words
charging a crime, the commission of which would subject
the offender to death, or other degrading penalties. (788.)
Sec. 851. Every Court and officer authorized to take
any bail or surety, shall have power to examine on oath
the person offering to become such bail or surety, concern
ing his property, and sufficiencv as such bail or surety.
(789.)
Sec. 852. . No official bond entered into by any officer,
nor any bond, recognizance or written undertaking, taken
by any officer in the discharge of the duties of his office,
shall be void for want of form or substance, or recital, or
condition, nor the principal or surety be discharged; but
the principal and surety shall be bound by such bond, re
cognizance or written undertaking, to the full extent con
templated by the law requiring the same, and the sureties
to the amount specified in the bond or recognizance. In
all actions on a defective bond, recognizance or written
undertaking, the plaintifff or relator may suggest the defect
in his complaint, and recover to the same extent as if such
bond, recognizance or written undertaking, were perfect in
all respects. (790.)
Sec. 853. In any action brought for the recovery of the
purchase-money against any person holding a contract for
the purchase'of lands, the party bound to perform the contract,
if not plaintifff, may be made a party, and the Court,
in the final judgment, may order the interest of the pur
chaser to be sold, or transferred to the plaintifff upon such
terms as may be just ; and may also order a specific perform
ance of the contract in favor of the complaint, or the
purchaser, in case a sale be ordered. (791.)
Sec. 854. In all cases where notice is required by this
g(J^ jt must jje jn Writing, and may be served by the proper
officer or any other person. (792.)
Sec. 855. If any Judge of the Circuit Court, shall adjourn the Court before having gone through the business
pending, and before the expiration of the time fixed by
law, the record must show the reason for adjournment. (793.)
Sec. 856. Any perstm required to give bail, may deposit
with the Clerk, the amount of money for which he is
required to give bail, and thereupon be discharged from
arrest. (795.)
[Rules of Construction.]
Sec. 857. In the construction of this act, the following
rujes 8nau De observed, when consistent with the context:
The word "Sheriff" means the Sheriff of the county, or
any other person authorized to perform his duties in any
case.
The word "Clerk" means the Clerk of the. Court, or
any person authorized to perform his duties in any case.
The phrase "of unsound mind" includes idiots, noncompotes,
lunatics, and distracted persons.
The word "oath" includes the word affirmation, and
the phrase " to swear " includes to affirm.
The word "person'' extends to bodies politic and cor
porate.
The phrase "under legal disabilities" includes persons
within the age of twenty-one years, or of unsound mind, or
imprisoned in the State's prison, or out of the United States.
The word " bond," as used in this act, does not necessa
rily imply a seal; but in other respects means the same
kind of instruments as heretofore.
The word "land," and the phrases "real estate" and
" real property" include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
The phrase "personal property" includes goods, chat
tels, evidences of debt, and things in action.
The word "property" includes personal and real prop
erty.
The word "judgment" means all final orders, decrees
and determinations in an action ; also, all orders upon which
executions may issue.
The phrase "money demands on contract," when used in
reference to an action, means any action arising out of con
tract, when the relief demanded is a recovery of money.
The word "attorney" includes a counselor, and every
other person authorized to appear and represent a party in
an action or special proceeding, in any stage thereof.
The word " verified," when applied to pleadings, means
supported by oath or affirmation in writing. (797.)
Sec. 858. Words importing the singular number only,
may be also applied to the plural of persons and things,
and words importing the masculine gender only, may be
extended to females also, and the words " without relief," in
any judgment, contract, execution or other instrument of
writing or record, shall be taken, held and deemed to mean
"without the benefit of valuation laws." (798.)
Sec. 859. In actions already commenced, the pleadings
to be had to form issues, the manner of procuring testimoney, the examination of parties, the trial and rendition
of judgment, and all other proceeding, shall conform to the
provisions of this act, as far as practicable. (799.)
Sec. 860. The provisions of this act, shall be liberally
construed, and shall not be limited by any rules of strict
construction. (800.)
Sec. 861. No part of this act shall be retroactive, unless
expressly so declared. (801.)
Sec. 862. All rights of action secured by existing laws
may be prosecuted in the manner provided in this act. (803.)
Sec. 863. If, upon the sale of property, real or personal,
the title of the purchaser is invalid as to all or any part of
such property, by reason of any defect in the proceedings,
or want of title, the purchaser may be subrogated to the
rights of the creditor against the debtor, to the extent of
the money paid and applied to the debtor's benefit; and
where the judgment is entered satisfied in whole or in part
be reason of such sale, such purchaser upon notice to the
parties to the proceeding, and upon motion, may have such
satisfaction of the judgment vacated in whole or in part.
Such purchaser, when the proceedings are defective, or the
description of the property sold is imperfect, shall also have
a lien to the same extent on the property sold as against all
persons except bona fide purchasers without notice; but
this section shall not be construed to require the creditor to
refund the purchase money by reason of the invalidity of
any such sale.
[ Concerning Copies and Custody of Pleadings, and Num
bering of Causes.]
Sec. 864. The Court may, by rule, require that, when
the complaint, answer or reply, in any cause is filed, the
party filing the same shall also file one copy thereof for the
use of the opposite party, but no copy of any exhibit need
be filed, and for the filing of which copy no fee shall be
taxed by the Clerk.
Sec. 865. Each case, when it is first filed and entered,
shall be numbered, and thereafter in all its stages, in the
same Court and upon every docket and book, such cause
and all the papers and exhibits filed therein, shall bear the
same number as when first filed.
[0/ Judges in Vacation who are Interested in a Cause.]
Sec. 866. Whenever, in vacation, the Judge of any
Court is asked to grant an interlocutory or special order,
and such Judge is interested in the cause, or incompetent, he
shall take no other steps in such matter except to fix an
other time and place for such hearing, and call some other
Judge to act in such proceeding, or if it shall be difficult, in
the opinion of such Judge, for any cause, to procure the at
tendance of another Judge, such Judge, in order to prevent
delay, may appoint any competent and disinterested attor
ney of this State, to act as Judge in such proceeding, who,
if he consent to act, shall be qualified as other Judges, and
his appointment and oath shall be filed with the papers in
such proceeding ; and such Judge or attorney, so called or
appointed, shall have the same power, during such vacation,
to hear and determine such matter and grant or refuse the
order prayed for, as if he were the regular Judge of said
Court.
Sec. 867. All enactments of the General Assembly or*
tne subject of the competency of witnesses to testify, and
all such enactments on the subject of pleading and prac
tice, so far as they relate to Circuit and Superior Courts, as
to pleadings in cases from inferior Courts, are hereby re
pealed ; but no right or liability to any penalty or forfeit
ure shall be impaired by this act, nor shall any right, given
by any enactment hereby repealed, be impaired by such re
peal, but the same shall be allowed in the manner provided
in this act.

