SEC. 249. (249.) One iorm 0i action—1. There shall be no distinction
in pleading and practice between actions at law and suits in equity;
and there Shall be but one form of action for the enforcement or pI‘O'
tection of private rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall
be denominated a civil action.

SEC. 250. (250.) Plaintiff and defendant—2. In such action, the party
complaining shall be known as the olaintiff, and the adverse party as
the defendant.

SEC. 251. (251.) Real party—Exception.—3. Every action must be pros
ecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise
provided in the next section; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of con
tract.

SEC. 252. (252.) Executors, trustees, eta—How may sue—4. An exec~
utor, administrator, a trustee of an express trust, or a person ex
pressly authorized by statute, may sue, without joining with him the
person for whose beneﬁt the action is prosecuted. A trustee of an
express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed
to include a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made
for the beneﬁt of another. It shall not be necessary to make an idiot
or lunatic a joint party with his guardian or committee, except as may
be required by statute.

SEC. 253. (253.) Action upon oﬁicial bonds.—10. Actions upon ofﬁcial
bonds, and bonds payable to the state, shall be brought in the name
of the state of Indiana, upon the relation of- the party interested.

SEC. 254. [E. S. 15.] Joint suit on official bonds—1. That whenever
any public ofﬁcer or other person is required by the laws of this state to
give bond for the performance of his duties and more than one bond
is given by the same ofﬁcer or person for the performance of such
duties, either during the same period of time or for successive periods
of time, any person entitled to sue upon either of said bonds may
bring a joint suit upon all or any number of said bonds, and in such
action the liability of all the respective sureties thereon shall be de
termined by the court or jury.

SEC. 255. (254.) Married women. —— 11. A married woman may sue
alone—
First. When the action concerns her separate property.
Second. When the action is between herself and her husband; but
II). no case shall she be required to sue or defend by guardian or next
friend, except she be under the age of twenty-one years.

SEC. 256. (255,) Infants—12f When an infant shall have a right of
action, such infant shall be entitled to bring suit thereon, and the same
shall not be delayed or deferred on account of such infant not being
of full age.

SEC. 257. (256.) Next friend—Written consent—Costs—Removal.—
13. Before any process shall be issued in the name of an infant who
is a sole plaintifff, a competent and responsible person shall consent in
writing to appear as the next friend of such infant; and such next
friend shall be responsible for the costs of such action; and thereupon
process shall issue as in other cases. But where it shall appear to the
court that such next friend is incompetent, or irresponsible, the court
may remove him, and permit some suitable person to be substituted,
without prejudice to the progress of the action.

SEC. 258. (257.) Bond of next friend—14. The court, in its discretion, will“
may require the next friend of an infant, in an action for the recovery
. _ . sf
of any debt or damages, to execute a written undertaking to such 1n
tent, with sufﬁcient suret1es, to be approved by the court, that the a") in
next friend shall duly account to the infant for all monies which may
be recovered in such action. an“:
SEC. 259, (258.) Guardian ad litem.=—15. An infant-defendant shall yeti?
appear and defend by guardlan appointed by the court or chosen by 3%;
such infant with the consent of the court. 

SEC. 260. (259.) Guardian not liable for c0sts—Exception.—16. No
person appointed as guardian shall be liable for the costs of the action,
unless charged by the special order of the court for some personal mis
conduct in the same.
SEC. 261. (260.) Poor person, attorney for.-—17. Any poor person, not
having sufficient means to prosecute or defend an action, may apply
to the court in which the action is intended to be brought, or is pend—
ing, for leave to prosecute or defend as a poor person. The court, if
satisﬁed that such person has not sufﬁcient means to prosecute or de
fend the action, shall admit the applicant to prosecute or defend as a
poor person, and shall assign him an attorney to defend or prosecute
the cause, and all other ofﬁcers requisite for the prosecution or defense,
who shall do their duty therein without taking any fee or reward there
for from such poor person.

SEC. 262. (261.) Order, when annulled—18. If the person so admitted
be guilty of any improper conduct, or of any unjustiﬁable delay in
the progress of such action, the court may, in its discretion, annul
such order, and he shall thereafter be deprived of all beneﬁt of the
order admitting him to prosecute or defend as such poor person.
SEC. 263. (262.) Who plaintiﬁs.—19. All persons having an interest
in the subject of the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded,
shall be joined as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 264. (263.) Unmarried woman—Seduction—Damages.—26. An y
unmarried female may prosecute, as plaintifff, an action for her own
seduction, and may recover therein such damages as may be assessed
in her favor.

SEC. 265. (264.) Parent or guardian—Seduction.—27. Afather(or. 1'11
case of his death, or desertion of his family, or imprisonment, the
mother) may prosecute, as plaintiﬁ, for the seduction of the daughter,
and the guardian for the seduction of the ward, though the daughter
or ward be not living with, or in the service of, the plaintifff, at the
time of the seduction or afterward, and there be no loss of service.
When the action is brought by the guardian, the damages recovered
shall inure to the ward. 

SEC. 266. (265.) When wife or mother may sue—28. When a bus
band or father has deserted his family, or is imprisoned, the wife or
mother may prosecute or defend, in his name, any action which he
might have prosecuted or defended, and shall have the same powers
and rights therein as he might have had.
SEC. 267. (266.) Father or guardian may sue for injury to child—29.
A father (or in case of his death, or desertion of his family, or im
prisonment, the mother) may maintain an action for the injury or
death of a child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.
But when the action is brought by the guardian for an injury to his
ward, the damages. shall inure to the beneﬁt of his ward.

SEC. 268. (267.) Joinder of plaintifffs barred—Striking from rec'ord.-—
53. In cases where part only of the persons entitled to bring an ac
tion are barred by the statute of limitations, all may be joined as
plaintifffs; and when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, by
admission or otherwise, that part of the plaintifffs are barred by the
statute, the court, upon motion, shall order the names of such plain
tiffs to be stricken from the record, and the action may be prosecuted
by those not barred.
SEC. 269. (268.) Who defendants—20. Any person may be made a
defendant who has, or claims, an interest in the controversy adverse
to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determin
ation or settlement of the questions involved.

SEC. 270. (269.) Joint interest—When one may sue for all.—‘21- Of
the parties in the action, those who are united in interest must be
joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but, if the consent of any one who
should have been joined as plaintifff can not be obtained, he may be
made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint,
and when the question is one of a common or general interest of many
persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to
bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
beneﬁt of the whole.

SEC. 271. (270.) Persons liable on same instrument—22. Persons sev
erally and immediately liable upon the same obligation or instrument,
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may,
all or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of
the plaintiﬂ.
SEC. 272. (271.) When no abatement— Proceedings— Tunisian—23.
No action shall abate by the death or disability of a party, or by the
transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or con
tinue. In case of the death or disability of a party, the court, on mo
tion or supplemental complaint at any time within one year, or on
supplemental complaint afterward, may allow the action to be con
tinued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In
case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be continued in
the name of the original party; or the court may allow the person to
whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the action.
SEC. 273. (272.) Making new parties.—24. The court may determine
any controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done
without prejudice to the rights of others or by saving their rights;
but when a complete determination of the controversy can not be had,
without the presence of other parties, the court must cause them to be
joined as proper parties. And when, in an action for the recovery
of real or personal property, a person not a party to the action,
but having an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the
court to be made a party, it may order him to be made a party by the
proper amendment.

SEC. 274. (273.) Interpleader—Notice.—25. Adefendant againstwhom
an action is pending upon a contract, or for speciﬁc real or personal
property, may, at any time before answer, upon afﬁdavit that a person
not a party to the action, and without collusion with him, makes
against him a demand for the same debt or property, upon due notice
to such person and the adverse party, apply to the court for an order
to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liabil
ity to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of the debt,
or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the court
may direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.
SEC. 275. (274.) New party—N0tice.—848. When a new party is in
troduced into an action as a representative or successor of a former
party, such new party is entitled to the same notice, to be given in
the same manner as required for defendants in the commencement of
an action.
SEC. 276. (275.) Party, in action for purchase-money—Decree.—853.
In any action brought for the recovery of the purchase-money against
any person holding a contract for the purchase of lands, the party
bound to perform the contract, if not plaintifff, may be made a party,
and the court, in the ﬁnal judgment, may order the interest of the
purchaser to be sold or transferred to the plaintifff upon such terms as
may be just; and may also order a speciﬁc performance of the con
tract in favor of the complainant or the purchaser, in case a sale be
ordered.

SEC. 277. (276.) Assignor when defendant—Rule as to set-OE, eta—9.
—-When an action is brought by the assignee of a claim arising out Of
contract, and not assigned by indorsement in writing, the assignor
shall be made a defendant, to answer as to the assignment or his in
terest in the subject of the action. And all actions by assignees shall
be without prejudice to any set-Off or other defense existing at the
time of or before notice of the assignment, except actions on negoti
able promissory notes and bills of exchange, transferred in good faith
and upon good consideration before due.
SEC. 278. (277.) New party, how brought in by defendant—99. When
it is necessary for the defendant to bring a new party before the court,
he may state the matter relating thereto in his answer, and demand
relief; and thereupon a summons shall issue and other proceedings be
had against him as if such matter had been exhibited in the original
complaint.
SEC. 279. (278.) What causes of action joined—106. The plaintifff may
unite several causes of action in the same complaint, when they are
included in either of the following classes:
First. Money demands on contract.
Second. Injuries to property.
Third. Injuries to person or character.
Fourth. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with
or without damages for the withholding thereof, and for injuries to
the property withheld.
Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of real property, with Or
without damages, rents, and proﬁts for the withholding'thereof, and
for waste or damage done to the land; to make partition of and to de
termine and quiet the title to real property.
Sixth. Claims to enforce the speciﬁc performance of contracts, and
to avoid contracts for fraud or mistakes.
Seventh. Claims to foreclose mortgages; to enforce or discharge
speciﬁc liens; to recover personal judgment upon the debt secured by
such mortgage or lien; to subject to sale real property upon demands
against decedents’ estates, when such property has passed to heirs,
devisees, or their assigns; to marshal assets; and to substitute one per
son to the rights of another; and all other causes of action, arising out
of a contract or a duty, and not falling within either of the foregoing
class‘es. But causes of action so joined must affect all the parties to
the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be sep
arately stated and numbered.
SEC. 280. ( 279.) Actions for title papers—Reformation, eta—107.
When the plaintifff desires to recover the possession of title papers or
other instruments of writing, or correct any mistakes therein, a sepa
rate action may be brought therefore; or the possession of such title
papers or other instruments of writing may be recovered, or mistakes
corrected in any other action, when such recovery or correction would
be essential to a complete remedy.
SEC. 281. (280.) Jcinder in matters of contract—Separate trials—108.
When the action arises out of contract, the plaintifff may join such
other matters in his complaint as may be necessary for a complete
remedy and a. speedy satisfaction of his judgment, although such other
matters fall within some other one or more of the foregoing classes.
When several causes of action are united, belonging to any of the fore—
gpipg classes, the court may order separate trials, for the furtherance
0 justice.
SEC. 282. (281.) Where actions survive—Representatives.—5. In all
cases where actions survive, they may be commenced by or against the
representatives of the deceased to whom the interest in the subject
matter of the action has passed.
SEC. 283. (282.) What actions die—Exception.-—6. A cause of action
arising out of an injury to the person dies with the person of either
party, except in cases in which an action is given for an injury caus
ing the death of any person, and actions for seduction, false imprison
ment, and malicious prosecution.
SEC. 234, ( 283.) All other actions survive—Exception.——7 . Alleother
causes of action survive, and may be brought by or against the repre
sentatives of the deceased party, except actions for promises to marry
SEC. 285. ( 284.) Action for death of another—Limitation.—8. When
the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another,
the personal representatives of the former may maintain an action
therefore against the latter, if the former might have maintained an ac
tion, had he lived, against the latter for an injury for the same act or
emission. The action must be commenced within two years. The
damages can not exceed ten thousand dollars, and must inure to the
exclusive beneﬁt of the widow and children, if any, or next of kin, to
be distributed in the same manner as personal property of the de—
ceased.

SEC. 286. (285.) Charges of incest, etc., how actionable—850. Every
charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or whoredom, falsely made
by any person against a female; also, words falsely spoken of any per
son, charging such person with incest, or the infamous crime against
nature, either with mankind or the brute creation,—shall be action
able in the same manner as in the case of slanderous words charging
a crime, the commission of which would subject the offender to death
or other degrading penalties.

SEC. 287. (286.) Waste—Forfeiture and eviction—706. Wrongs here
tofore remediable by action of waste shall be subjects of action, as
other wrongs in which there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture
of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from the premises.
Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of the
person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in possession when
the injury to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to
be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to
have been done in malice.
SEC. 288. (287.) Waste 0r trespass—Suit by remainder-man.-707. A
person seized of an estate in remainder or reversion may maintain an
action for waste or trespass, for injury to the inheritance, notwith
standing an intervening estate for life or years.
SEC. 289. (288.) Suit against co-tenant.—708. A joint tenant, or ten
ant in common, or tenant in coparcenary, may maintain an action
against his co-tenant or coparcener, or their personal representatives,
for receiving more than his just proportion.
SEC. 290. (289.) Nuisance—709. Whateverds injurious to health, or
indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action.
SEC. 291. (290.) Who may sue.—-710. Such action may be brought by
any person whose property is injuriously aﬁected, or whose personal .
enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance.
SEC. 292. (291.) Nuisance—Remedy.— 711. Where a proper case is
made, the nuisance may be injoined or abated, and damages recovered
therefore.
SEC. 293. (292.) Accounts, etc.—Limitation.——37. The following ac
tions shall be commenced within six years after the cause of action
has accrued, and not afterward:
First. On accounts and contracts not in writing.
Second. For use, rents, and proﬁts of real property.
Third. For injuries to property. damages for any detention thereof,
and for recovering possession of personal property.
Fourth. For relief against frauds.
SEC. 294, ( 293.) Injury to persons, etc.—Limitation.—-38. The follow
ing actions shall be commenced within the periods herein prescribed,
after the cause of action has accrued, and not afterward:
First. For injuries to person or character, and for a forfeiture or
penalty given by statute, within two years.
Second. All actions against a sheriff, or other public ofﬁcer, or
against such officer and his sureties on a public bond, growing cut of
a liability incurred by doing an act in an ofﬁcial capacity, or by the
omission of an ofﬁcial duty, within ﬁve years; but an action may be
brought against the ofﬁcer or his legal representatives, for money col
lected in an ofﬁcial capacity, and not paid over at any time within six
years.
Third. For the recovery of real property sold on execution, brought
by the execution-debtor, his heirs, or any person claiming under him,
by title acquired after the date of the judgment, within ten years after
the sale.
Fourth. For the recovery of real property sold by executors, admin
istrators, guardians, or commissioners of a court, upon a judgment
specially directing the sale of property sought to be recovered, brought
by a party to the judgment, his heirs, or any person claiming a title
under a party, acquired after the date of the judgment, within ﬁve
years after the sale is conﬁrmed.
Fifth. Upon promissory notes, bills of exchange and other written
contracts for the payment of money, hereafter executed, within ten
years: Provided, That all such contracts as have been heretofore exe
cuted may be enforced, under this act, within such time only as they
have to run before being barred under the existing law limiting the
commencement of actions, and not afterward.
Sixth. Upon contracts in writing other than those for the payment
of money on judgments of courts of record, and for the recovery of the
possession of real estate, within twenty years.

SEC. 295. (294.) Actions not otherwise limited—39. All actions not
limited by any other statute shall be brought within ﬁfteen years. In
special cases, where a different limitation is prescribed by statute, the
provisions of this act shall not apply.

SEC. 296. (295.) Balances due on mutual account—~40. In an action
broughtto recover a balance due upon a mutual, open, and current
account between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to
have accrued from the date of the last item proved in the account on
either side.
SEC. 297. (296.) Person under legal disabilities—42. Any person be
ing under legal disabilities when the cause of action accrues, may
bring his action within two years after the disability is removed.
SEC. 298. (297.) Absence 0r non-residence—Proviso.—43. The time
during which the defendant is a non-resident of the state or absent on
public business shall not be computed in any of the periods of limita
tion; but when a cause has been fully barred by the laws of the place
where the defendant resided, such bar shall be the same defense here
as though it had arisen in this state: Provided, That the provisions of
this section shall be construed to apply only to causes of action arising
without this state.

SEC. 299. (298.) Death of party—Extension of limitation—44. If any
person entitled to bring, or liable to any action, shall die before the
expiration of the time limited for the action, the cause of action shall
survive to or against his representatives, and may be brought at any
time after the expiration of the time limited, within eighteen months
after the death of such person.
SEC. 300. (299.) New action after failure—Limitation.—45. If, after
the commencement of an action, the plaintifff fail therein, from any
cause except negligence in the prosecution; or the action abate, or be
defeated by the death of a party; or judgment be arrested or reversed
on appeal, a new action may be brought within ﬁve years aft-er such
determination, and be deemed a continuation of the ﬁrst, for the pur'
poses herein contemplated.
SEC. 301. ( 300.) Concealment of cause of action.—46. If any person
liable to an action shall conceal the fact from the knowledge of the
person entitled thereto, the action may be commenced at any time
within the period of limitation, after the discovery of the cause of ac
tion.
SEC. 302. (301.) New promise to be in writing—47. No acknowledg
mentor promise shall be evidence of a new or continuing contract,
whereby to take the case out of the operation of the provisions of this
act, unless the same be contained in some writing signed by the narty
to be charged thereby.
SEC. 303. (302.) Promise of joint contractor, executor, eta—48. The
acknowledgment or promise of one joint contractor or executor or ad
ministrator, shall not render any other joint contractor, executor, or
administrator liable under the provisions of this act.
SEC. 304. (303.) Eﬁect of payment—Exception.-—50. Nothing contained
in the preceding sections shall take away or lesson the effect of any
payment made by any person; but no indorsement or memorandum
of any payment made upon any instrument of writing, by or on behalf
of the party to whom the payment shall purport to be made, shall be
deemed sufﬁcient to exempt the case from the provisions of this act.
SEC. 305. (304.) State not barred—Sureties excepted—51. Limita
tions of actions shall not bar the state of Indiana, except as to sureties.
SEC. 306. (305.) Judgments, when deemed satisﬁed—52. Every judg
ment and decree of any court of record of the United States, or of this
or any other state, shall be deemed satisﬁed after the expiration of
twenty years.
SEC. 307. (306.) Bar as to 'oint debtors—54. Neither a joint debtor or
is representatives, in w ose favor the statute of limitations has
Operated, shall be liable to a joint debtor or surety, or their represen
tatives, upon payment by such joint debtor or surety, or their repre
sentatives, of the debt, or any part of it.

SEC. 308. (307.) Real actions in county where land lies—30. Actions
for the following causes must be commenced in the county in which
the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated:
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such right or interest.
and for injuries to real property.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
SEC. 309. (308.) Actions for penalties, etc., where commenced—31
Actions for the following causes must be commenced in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
First. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by stat
ute; except when imposed 'for an offense committed on a lake or river
or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action
may be brought in any county bordering on such lake, river, or
stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed.
Second. Against a public ofﬁcer or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his oﬁice; or
against a person who, by his command or in his aid, shall do any—
thing touching the duties of such ofﬁcer.
In all cases enumerated in this and the section immediately preced
ing it, process may issue to and be served in any county in this state
SEC. 310. (309.) Corporations, etc.—Agency-.-—32. Whena corporation,
company, or individual has an ofﬁce or agency in any county for the
transaction of business, any action growing out of, or connected with,
the business of such ofﬁce may be brought in the county where the
ofﬁce or agency is located, at the option of the plaintifff, as though the
principal resided therein; and service upon any agent or clerk em
ployed in the ofﬁce or agency shall be sufﬁcient service upon the prin
cipal; or process may be sent to any county, and served upon the
principal.

SEC. 311. (310.) Wills—33. An action to establish or set aside a will
must be brought in the county in which the will, if valid, ought, ac
cording to law, to be proved and recorded.

SEC. 312. (311.) Railroads and other carriers.—34. An action against
a railroad 0r canal corporation or company, or owner of a line of
stages or coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the rail
road, canal, or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a
liability as a carrier, may be brought in any county through or into
which such railroad, canal, or line of stages or coaches passes; and
the summons may be served in any county in the state.

3l3. Corporations, venue of actions against—796. Any action
against a corporation may be brought in any county where the corpo
ration has an ofﬁce for. the transaction of business, or any person re
sides upon whom process may be served against such corporation, un~
less otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 314. (312.) Residents and non-residents—Assignoes—35. In all
other cases, the action shall be commenced in the county where the
defendants, or one of them, has his usual place of residence. Where
there are several defendants, residing in different counties, the action
may be brought in any county where either defendant resides, and a
separate summons may be issued to any other county where the other
defendants may be found; and in cases of non-residents, or persons
having no permanent residence in the state, action may be commenced
and process served in any county where they may be found. But any
action brought by the assignee of a claim, arising out of contract,
whether assigned in writing or by delivery, shall be commenced in the
county where one or more of the parties immediately liable to judg
ment and execution reside, and not elsewhere.

SEC. 315. (313.) Foreign corporations—36. Actions may be brought
against a corporation created by or under the laws of any other state,
government or county, in any court having jurisdiction of the amount
demanded, by any person having a cause of action, in any county
within the state, where any property, monies, credits or effects b6
longing or due to the corporation may be found.
SEC. 316. (314.) Filin c0mplaint—Summons.—-55. A civil action shall
be commenced, by E ing in the ofﬁce of the clerk a complaint, and
causing a summons to issue thereon; and the action shall be deemed
to be commenced from the time of issuing the summons; but as to
those against whom publication is made, from the time of the ﬁrst
publication. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, under the
seal of the court, and directed to the sheriff, and shall notify the de
fendant of the action commenced, the parties thereto, and the court
where pending.
SEC. 317. (315.) Service—Guardian ad litem for insane—56.v The sum
mons shall be served, either personally on the defendant, or by leav
ing a copy thereof at his usual or last place of residence. An acknowl
edgment on the back of the process, or the voluntary appearance of a
defendant, is equivalent to service. Process against persons of un
sound mind shall be served upon the guardian of such persons, if
there be a guardian. If no guardian shall have been appointed, then
such process shall be served, by copy, upon the superintendent of the
hospital in which such persons shall be conﬁned, or upon the person
having charge or custody of such person; in which case, upon proof
of the insanity of the defendant, the court shall appoint a guardian
ad [item for such defendant, whose duty it shall be to make proper
defense to such action.

SEC. 318. (316.) Service on corporations.—57. The process against
either a domestic or foreign corporation may be served on the presi
dent, presiding oﬁicer, chairman of the board of trustees, or other
chief ofﬁcer (or if its chief ofﬁcer is not found in the county, then
upon its cashier, treasurer, director, secretary, clerk, general or special
agent), or if it is a municipal corporation, upon its mayor, marshal,
or if it is an incorporated library company, upon its librarian. If
none of the aforesaid ofﬁcers can be found, then upon any person an
thorized to transact business in the name of such corporation, and if
no such person, ofﬁcer or agent be found in the county where suit is
pending, process may be sent for service to any other county in the
state where such person, officer, or agent may be found. In case of a
corporation operating a steamboat or steamboats, process against such
corporation, if none of the aforementioned persons upon whom serv
ice can be made is found in the county in which said process issued,
then such process may be served upon any wharf-master of any wharf
boat in the state over and upon which said corporation receives or dis
charges freight or passengers: Provided, however, That process shall
not be served upon any such person, officer, or agent when he is plain
tiff in the suit; but in such cases process shall be served upon some
other such person, ofﬁcer, or agent of the corporation than such plain
tiff; and in case the defendant be a foreign corporation, having no
SuCh person, officer, or 'agent, resident in the state, service may be
made in the same manner as against other non-residents.

SEC. 319. (317.) Summons and service, when good—58. No summons,
or the service thereof, shall be set aside, or be adjudged insufﬁcient,
where there is sufﬁcient substance about either to inform the party on
whom it may be served, that there is an action instituted against him
in court, the name of the plaintifff and the court, and the time when
he is required to appear.
SEC. 320. (318.) Notice by publication—59. The clerk, by order of the
court, if in session, or in vacation without such order, shall cause a
notice of the pendency of any action, and the term at which the same
will stand for trial, to be published for three weeks successively, in
some newspaper of general circulation, named by the plaintifff or his
attorney, printed in the English language, and published in the
county (or if none be printed or published therein, then in the county
in this state nearest thereto in which any such paper may be printed),
in either of the following cases shown by affidavit:
First. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation and has prop
erty within the state, or the cause of action arose therein.
Second. Where the defendant, being a resident of the state of In~
diana, has departed therefrom, with intent to defraud his creditors, or
to avoid the service of the summons, or keeps himself concealed
therein, with like intent.
Third. Where the defendant is not a resident of the state, and the
cause of action is founded upon or connected with a' contract, or arises
from a duty imposed by law, in relation to real estate in this state, or
the object of the action is to enforce or discharge a lien, or to obtain a
divorce, or to try and determine, or quiet the title to, or possession of,
real estate or any interest therein, or to enforce the collection of any
demand by proceedings in garnishment or attachment, or where the
object is to obtain a review of a judgment, or to procure a new trial,
or to set aside a judgment, or to enforce satisfaction of a judgment or
mortgage, or to set aside an entry of satisfaction of a judgment, mort
gage, or other lien, or to set aside a sale of real estate, or to set aside
a return of the sheriff on an execution or other writ.
Fourth. Where the residence of any defendant, upon diligent in
quiry, is unknown.
Fifth. Where the name of any defendant is unknown, and he is be
lieved to be a non-resident.
Sixth. When the defendant is not a resident of the state of Indiana _
and the object of the action is to enforce the partition of real estate.

SEC. 321. (319.) Personal service without the state—Proof.—61. When
the defendant is a non-resident, personal service of the summons out
of the state is equivalent to publication; and such service may be
proved by the afﬁdavit of a competent person, made before any officer
authorized to administer oaths; which affidavit shall state the time
and place and mode of giving the notice, and set forth that the person
thus served with notice is the identical person named in the action or
proceeding; or the identity of the person may be proved by the affi
davit of the plaintifff or any other person.
SEC. 322. (320.) Proceedings, when part only are served—~62. Where
the action is against two or more defendants, end the summons is
served on one or more, but not all of them, the plaintifff may proceed
as follows:
First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted on con
tract, he may proceed against the defendant served; and if he recover
judgment it may be enforced against the joint property of all and the
separate property of the defendant served.
Second. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants, and may afterward proceed against those
not served.
Third. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintifff would
be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants, if the
action had been against them, or any of them alone.

SEC. 323. (321.) Proceedings against joint debtors not summoned, when?
—723. In all cases where judgment has heretofore been, or shall here
after be, recovered against one or more persons jointly liable on con
tract, but such judgment has been, or shall be, rendered only against part of the persons liable, for the reason that the others were not sum
moned and did not appear, the plaintifff may proceed against those not
summoned and who did not appear, in the same manner as if they
were alone liable, but the complaint must allege the facts aforesaid.

SEC. 324. (322.) Return of “not found” as to part.——63. When there
'is a return of “ not found ” as to any of the defendants, such return
shall be suggested on the record, and the plaintifff may continue the
cause, as to them, for another summons, at his option; and he may,
in either case, proceed against the defendants served in time.

SEC. 325. (323.) Plaintiff’s privilege when part are served—429
When the summons has been served in due time on part only of the
defendants, the plaintifff may dismiss, or continue for further proceed
ings, his action as to those not summoned, or not summoned in time,
and proceed to trial as to the others, or continue as to all of them, at
his option.

SEC. 326. (324.) Lis Pendens Record-72. There shall be kept in the
office of the clerk of the several circuit courts of this state a book to
be called the “ Lis Pendens Record,” which shall be a public record.
SEC. 327. (325.) Notice by party—Contents—Filing.—73. That when
ever any suit shall be commenced upon any bohd payable to the state of
Indiana, in any of the courts of this state, it shall be the duty of the
plaintifff in such case to ﬁle with the county clerk a written notice, con
taining the title of the court, the names of all the parties to such suit,
and a statement that it is upon an ofﬁcial bond; and whenever any
person shall have commenced a suit, whether by complaint, as plaint
iff, or by cross-complaint as defendant, to enforce any lien upon,
right to, or interest in any real estate upon any claim not founded
upon an instrument executed by the party having the legal title to such
real estate, as appears from the proper records of such county, and re
corded as by law required; or not founded upon a judgment of record
in the county wherein such real estate is situated, against the party
having the legal title to such real estate, as appears from such proper
records. It shall be the duty of such person to ﬁle with the clerk of the
circuit court in each county where the real estate sought to be affected
is situated, a written notice containing the title of the court, the names
of all the parties to such suit, a description of the real estate to be
affected, and the nature of the lien, right, or interest sought to be en
forced against the same; which notices shall, upon the payment of the
proper fees, be immediately recorded in said “ Lis Pendens Record ”
by the clerk, who shall note upon the record the day and hour when
said notice was ﬁled and recorded. 

SEC. 328. (326.) Attachment or levy—Notice and ﬁling by sheriff.—
74. Whenever any sheriff or coroner of any county in this state shall
seize upon any real estate or interest therein, by virtue of any writ of
attachment; or shall levy upon any such real estate or interest there
in, by virtue of any execution issued to him from any court other than
the court of the county in which he is sheriff 0r coroner,-—he shall,
at the time of making the seizure or levy, ﬁle with the clerk of the
circuit court of his county 9. written notice, setting forth the names of
the parties to the proceedings upon which the writ of attachment or
execution is founded, and a description of the land seized or levied
upon; which notice shall be recorded, as provided for in the preceding section of this act; and such sheriff or coroner shall state, in his re
turn to the attachment or execution, that such notice has been ﬁled;
and for making and ﬁling which notice he shall be allowed a fee of
ﬁfty cents, to be taxed as costs: Provided, That such sheriff or coroner
shall not be required to ﬁle such notice until the attachment or execu
tion-plaintifff shall have furnished the money to pay the clerk for ﬁling
and recording the same.
SEC. 329. (327.) Index of clerk—75. It shall be the duty of the sev
eral clerks, upon ﬁling and recording the notices herein provided, to
index the same in the name of the several parties whose interest in
such real estate is sought to be affected by such suits, attachments, or
executions, the plaintifff versus the names of all the defendants, and
each defendant whose real estate is sought to be affected at the suit of
the plaintifff.
SEC. 330. (328.) Fees 0f clerk—76. The clerk shall receive twenty-five
cents for ﬁling, recording, and indexing each notice required by this
act, to be paid by the person ﬁling the same; and the further sum of
ﬁfteen cents for entering satisfaction of the lien, right, or claimed in~
terest, as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 331. (329.) Satisfaction of lien—costs.—77. Upon the ﬁnal de
termination of any suit, brought for the purposes in section seventy
three [§ 325] speciﬁed, adversely to' the party seeking to enforce a lien
upon, right to, or interest in, such real estate, it shall be the duty of
the court rendering the judgment to order the proper clerk to enter in
said “ Lis Pendens Record” a satisfaction of the lien, right, or inter
est sought to be enforced against said realestate; and upon such entry
being made, said real estate shall be forever discharged therefrom,
and the costs for entering such satisfaction shall be taxed as part of
the costs in the case.
SEC. 332. (330.) Dismissal of attachment, etc.—Certiﬂcate—Fee. 78.
Whenever any such attachment shall be dismissed; or the judgment
rendered thereon shall be satisﬁed, or such execution shall be satisﬁed
without a sale of such lands so seized or levied upon as aforesaid, or
upon a redemption of such real estate within the time allowed by law
after a sale thereof upon execution, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the proper court, from which such attachment or execution was issued,
upon the payment of a fee of ﬁfty cents by the owner of such real
estate, to make a certiﬁcate of such dismissal or satisfaction, to be en
tered upon the “ Lis Pendens Record,” if the same is in his ofﬁce,
or to be recorded in the “ Lis Pendens Record ” of the proper county
where such real estate is situated; and upon such certiﬁcate being en
tered or recorded, such real estate shall be discharged from the lieu of
such attachment or execution.
SEC. 333. (331.) Failure to ﬁle notice—Effect.—79. Until the proper
notices required by this act have been ﬁled with the proper clerk, the
bringing of suits for the purposes mentioned in section seventy-three
[§ 325] , and the seizure of real estate under attachments, and the levy
thereon under execution, in the cases mentioned in section seventy
four [§326] shall not operate as constructive notice of the pendeiicy
of such suits, or of the seizure of or levy upon such real estate, nor
have any force or effect as against bona ﬁde purchasers or incumbran~
cars of the same.
SEC. 334. (332.) Judgment liens not aﬁected.—-80. Nothing in this
act shall be construed to impair the lieu of judgments of the several
courts of record of this state upon the real estate of defendants in the
county where such judgments are rendered, or transcripts thereof ﬁled
and recorded, as now required by law.

SEC. 335. Orders affecting real estate.—1. That orders granted by any
court or judge in vacation, whether upon a hearing or ex: parte in any
cause or proceeding, when they affect the disposition of real estate,
may be recorded in the Lis Pendens Record kept in the oﬁice of the clerk
of any county in which the real estate affected is situated; and upon
being so recorded, shall be notice of the matters therein set forth to
all persons that are or may become interested in such real estate, and
the provisions of such orders shall take effect upon such real estate
against any subsequent disposition thereof.

SEC. 336 (333.) Action dismissed, when—433. An action may be dis
missed without prejudice—
First. By the plaintifff, before the jury retires; or, when the trial is
by the court, at any time before the ﬁnding of the court is announced.
Second. By the court, where the plaintiﬁf fails to appear on the trial.
Third. By the court, on the refusal to make the necessary parties,
after having been ordered by the court.
Fourth. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants,
where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with dili
gence.
Fifth. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of an order
concerning the proceedings in the action. 

SEC. 387. (334.) Dismissal in vacation—Costs.—434. The plaintifff may
dismiss his action in vacation, by ﬁling with the clerk a writing to
that effect. The clerk shall enter such written dismissal in the order
book, and the court shall enter judgment accordingly at the next term.
The plaintifff shall not be liable to the defendant for any costs made
by him after notice of the dismissal.

SEC. 338. (335.) Deﬁnition—81. The pleadings are formal allegations
by the parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judg—
ment of the court. '
SEC. 339. (336.) Distinct forms abolished—82. All the distinct forms
of pleading heretofore existing, inconsistent with the provisions of
this act, are hereby abolished; and hereafter the forms of pleadings in
civil actions in courts of record, and the rules by which the sufficiency
of the pleadings is to be determined, are modiﬁed as prescribed by
this act.
SEC. 340. (337.) What allowed—83. The only pleadings allowed are—
First. The complaint by the plaintiﬁ.
Second. The demurrer and answer by the defendant.
Third. The demurrer and reply by the plaintifff.

SEC. 341. (338.) Complaint—Contents—Paragraphs numbered—84.
The ﬁrst pleading on the part of the plaintifff is the complaint. The
complaint shall contain-—
Firat. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names of the parties to
the action, plaintifff and defendant.
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the- cause of action,
SEC. 111 plain and concise language, without repetition, and in such man
ner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is
intended.
Third. Where the complaint contains more than one cause of action,
each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph, and numbered.
ourth. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff may suppose
himself entitled.
If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be
stated.
SEC. 342. (339.) Demurrer, causes therefore.—85. The defendant may
demur to the complaint when it appears upon the face thereof, either—
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the de
fendant or the subject of the action.
Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
Third. That there is another action pending between the same par
ties for the same cause.
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
ifth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action.
Sixth. That several causes of action have been improperly joined
And for no other cause shall a demurrer be sustained.

SEC. 343. (340.) Demurrer sustained for misjoinder—Proceedings.—
86. Where a demurrer is sustained on the ground of several causes of
action being improperly joined in the same complaint, the court shall
order the misjoinder to be noted on the order-book and cause as many
separate actions to be doc-keted between the parties as there are causes
decided by the court to be improperly joined, and each shall stand as
a separate action, and the plaintifff shall thereupon ﬁle a complaint in
each of the above cases, to which the defendant shall enter his appear
ance and plead and go to trial, or suffer a default, in the same manner
as in the original action.
SEC. 344. (341.) Misjoinder not ground for reversal.-—87. No judg~
ment shall ever be reversed for any error committed in sustaining or
overruling a demurrer for misjoinder of causes of action.

SEC. 345. (342.) Pleading over—Amendment—Terms.—-88. If the court
sustain or overrule a demurrer, the party affected by such ruling may
plead over or amend, upon such terms as the court may direct, and on
payment of costs occasioned by the demurrer.
SEC. 346. (343.) Objection by answer, whom—89. Where any of the
matters enumerated in section eighty-ﬁve [§ 309] do not appear upon
the face of the complaint, the objection (except for misjoinder of
causes) may be taken by answer. If no such objection is taken, either
by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court over
the subject of the action, and except the objection that the complaint
does not state facts sufﬁcient to constitute a cause of action: Provided,
however, That the objection that the action was brought in the wrong
county, if not'taken b" answer or demurrer, shall be deemed to have
been waived.

SEC. 347. (344.) Demurrer to part—Answer t0 residue—~90. The de
fendant may demur to one or more of the several causes of action al
leged in the complaint, and answer as to the residue.
SEC. 348. (345.) Demurrer overruled—Judgrnent.-—91. The judgment
upon overruling a demurrer shall be that the party shall plead over;
and the answer or reply shall not be deemed to overrule the objection
taken by demurrer. But no objection taken by demurrer, and over
ruled, shall be sufﬁcient to reverse the judgment, if it appear from the
whole record that the merits of the cause have been fairly determined.
If a party fail to plead after the demurrer is overruled, judgment shall
be rendered against him as upon -a default.

SEC. 349. (346.) Demurrer t0 answer.—100. Where the facts stated in
any paragraph of the answer are not sufﬁcient to constitute a cause of
defense, the plaintifff may demur to it under the rules prescribed for
demurring to a complaint.

SEC. 350. (.347.) Answer—Contents—Paragraphs numbered—92- The
answer shall contain
First. A denial of each allegation of the complaint controverted by
the defendant.
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense,
counterclaim, or set-off, in plain and concise language.
Third. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds
of defense, counterclaim, and set-off, whether legal or equitable, as
he shall have. Each shall be distinctly stated in a separate paragraph,
and numbered, and clearly refer to the cause of action intended to be
answered.

SEC. 351. (348.) Set-off.—93. A set-off shall be allowed only in actions
for money-demands upon contract, and must consist of matter arising
out of debt, duty, or contract, liquidated or not, held by the defend
ant at the time the suit was commenced, and matured at or before the
time it is offered as a set-off.

SEC. 352. (349.) Principal and surety—Set-oﬁ.-—94. In all actions
upon a note or other contract against several defendants, any one of
whom is principal and the others sureties therein, any claim upon
contract in favor of the principal defendant, and against the plaintifff
or any former holder of the note or other contract, may be pleaded as
a set-off by the principal or any other defendant.
SEC. 353. (350.) Counter-claim.—95. A counterclaim is any matter
arising out of or connected with the cause of action which might be
the subject of an action in favor of the defendant, or which would tend
to reduce the plaintifff’s claim or demand for damages.
SEC. 354. (351.) Omission to plead counterclaim—Eﬁect.—96. If any
defendant personally served with notice omit to set up a counterclaim
arising out of the contract, ‘or transaction set forth in the complaint as
the ground of the plaintifff’s claims, or any of them, he can not after
ward maintain an action against the plaintifff therefore, except at his
own costs.
SEC. 355. (352.) Cross-demands—Eﬁect of assignment or death—97.
When cross-demands have existed between persons, under such cir
cumstances that one could be pleaded as a counterclaim or set-off to
an action brought upon the other, neither can be deprived of the ben
eﬁt thereof by the assignment or death of the other, and the two de
mands must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other.
SEC. 356. (353.) Set-off or counterclaim—Right of defendant—435.
In any case where a set-off or counterclaim has been presented which
in another action would entitle the defendant to a judgment against
the plaintifff, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the
trial of his claim, without notice, although the plaintifff may have dis
missed his action or failed to appear.
SEC. 357. (354.) Answer, joint or several.—-98. Several defendants
may answer jointly or severally, as the facts set forth in the complaint
may require.
SEC. 358. (355.) Answer by guardian or committee—101. It shall be
the duty of the guardian of an infant, or committee of a person of
unsound mind, or attorney appointed for a prisoner, to ﬁle an answer,
denying the material allegations of the complaint prejudicial to such
defendant, without oath.
SEC. 359. (356.) Defenses except general denial, special.-—102. All de
fenses, except the mere denial of the facts alleged by the plaintifff, shall
he pleaded specially. 
SEC. 360. (357.) Reply—Demurrer thereto—Paragraphs numbered.—
SEC. 103. When any paragraph of the answer contains new matter, the
plaintifff may reply to it by a general denial; and may, also, in sepa
rate paragraphs, reply any new matter which supports the complaint
and avoids the new matter in such paragraph of the answer. The de
fendant may demur to any paragraph of the reply, on the ground that
the facts stated therein are not sufﬁcient to avoid the paragraph of
answer, or, if the answer be a set-off or counterclaim, any part thereof.
The paragraphs of the reply, like the answer, shall be severally num
bered, and each shall plainly refer to the paragraph of the answer to
which it is addressed. The pleadings to a counterclaim shall be an
answer by the defendant thereto, and a reply to new matter in the
answer, with the right to demur to any of them, as if the counter
claim were an original complaint.
SEC. 361. 358.) Pleadings subscribed—109. Every pleading in a court
of record must be subscribed by the party or his attorney.
SEC. 362. (359.) lnterrogatoriestoparties—Continuance.—-351. Either
party may propound interrogatories, to be ﬁled with the pleadings,
relevant to the matter in controversy, and require the opposite party
to answer the same under oath. And corporations, through their
proper ofﬁcers, agent, or agents, shall be required to answer interrog
atories as natural persons. All interrogatories must be answered
within the time limited, positively and without evasion, and the court
may enforce the answer by attachment or otherwise; and the party may,
in addition thereto, set forth, in his answer, all relevant matter in
avoidance. The answer to the interrogatories may be used on the trial
or not, at the option of the party requiring it: Provided, That in the
absence of such opposite party, the ﬁling of the interrogatories shall
not work a continuanceof the cause, unless it be shown to the court,
by afﬁdavit, that the party who ﬁles such interrogatories expects to
elicit facts by the answer material to him on the trial; that he believes
such facts to be true; that he can not prove the same by any witness,
and that he ﬁles the interrogatories, not for delay merely, but to ob
tain substantial justice at the trial.

SEC. 363. (360.) Veriﬁed pleadings not proof—Exception.—111. Plead
ings sworn to by either party in any case shall not, on the trial, be
deemed proof of the facts alleged therein, nor require other or greater
proof on the part of the adverse party than those not sworn to, except
as herein or otherwise by law provided. 
SEC. 364. (361.) Excuse pleaded —-When a denial.—112. When the
pleadings show suﬂicient excuse for not admitting or denying an alle
gation, such excuse operates as a denial of the truth of the allegation
and to require its proof.
SEC. 365. (362.) When instrument or copy must be ﬁled—1 13. When
any pleading is founded on a written instrument or on account, the
original, or a copy thereof, must be ﬁled with the pleading. A set-off
or a counterclaim is within the meaning of this section. Such copy
of a written instrument, when not copied in the pleadings, shall be
taken as part of the record. The account, if the items are numerous,
shall not be copied in the pleadings, nor be deemed to be part of the
record, unless by order of the court. Any variance between any
pleading and copy of a written instrument ﬁled, as to matter of de
scription or legal effect, may be amended at any time (as of course)
before judgment, without causing a continuance.

SEC. 366. (363.) Bill 0! particulars—Abstract of title—114. The
court, on motion, may order a further bill of particulars, when the one
ﬁled is defective; and may, in all proper cases, upon motion, order a
bill of particulars of the claim of either party, and abstracts of title to
be furnished. 

SEC. 367. (364.) Proof of execution of instruments—Veriﬁed plea—Ex
ception.—115. Where a pleading is founded on a written instrument,
or such instrument is therein referred to; or when an assignment, in
writing, of such instrument is specially alleged in a pleading, such
instrument or assignment may be read in evidence on the trial of the
cause without proving its execution, unless its execution be denied
by pleading under oath, or by an afﬁdavit ﬁled with the pleading
denying the execution. And when a written instrument or assign
ment is so pleaded or referred to, proof of the names of the makers,
assignors, obligors, assignees, payees, or obligees shall not be neces
sary, unless the same shall be denied by a pleading under oath, or by
an afﬁdavit ﬁled as aforesaid. The oath, in case that the time of as
signment is questioned, shall be that the party has reason to believe,
and does believe, that the assignment was not made before the suit was
commenced; but executors, administrators, or guardians need not deny 
the execution of an' instrument, or the assignment thereof, under oath.
but the same must be proved as if it were so denied. The party shall,
in all cases, be entitled to an inspection of the instrument in writing,
before pleading thereto. 

SEC. 368. (365.) Dilatory pleas veriﬁed—Answer and issue in abate
meat—116. Pleadings denying the jurisdiction of the court, or in
abatement of the action, and all dilatory pleadings, must be supported
by afﬁdavit. The character or capacity in which a party sues or is
sued, and the authority by virtue of which he sues, shall require no
proof on the trial of the cause, unless such character, capacity, or
authority, be denied by a pleading under oath, or by an affidavit ﬁled
therewith. An answer in abatement must precede, and can not he
pleaded with an answer in bar, and the issue thereon must be tried
ﬁrst and separately. If the issue be found against the answer, the
judgment must be that the party plead over, and against him for all
costs of the action up to that time.

SEC. 369. (366.) Failure of consideration—Exception.—117. A failure
or want of consideration, in‘ whole or in part, may he pleaded to any
action, set-off, or counterclaim upon or arising out of any specialty
bond or deed, except instruments negotiable by the law merchant, and
negotiated before falling due.

SEC. 370. (367.) Pleading set-0E or payment, though barred—41. A
party to any action may plead or reply a set-off or payment to the
amount of any cause of action or defense, notwithstanding such set
off or payment is barred by the statute.
SEC. 371. (368.) Averment of demand at place, when unnecessary.118. In any action or defense, founded upon a bill or note, or other
contract for the payment of money at a particular place, it shall not
be necessary to aver or prove a demand at the place, but the opposite
party may show a readiness to pay such demand at the proper place.
SEC. 372. (369.) Judgment of court of special jurisdiction—Proof.—119. In pleading a judgment or decision of a court or ofﬁcer of special
jurisdiction, it shall be suﬁicient to allege, generally, that the judg
ment or decision was duly given or made. If the allegation be denied,
the facts conferring jurisdiction must be proved on the trial.

SEC. 373. (370.) Condition precedent—Proof.—120. In pleading the
performance of a condition precedent in a contract, it shall be sufﬁ
cient to allege, generally, that the party performed all the conditions
on his part. If the allegation be denied, the facts showing a perform
ance must be proved on the trial.
SEC. 374. (371.) Private statute—121. In pleading a private statute
or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufﬁcient to refer to such stat
ute by its title and the day of its approval, and the court shall take
judicial notice thereof.
SEC. 375. (372.) Libel or slander—Defamatory mutton—122. In an
action for libel or slander it shall be sufﬁcient to state, generally, that
the defamatory matter was published or spoken of the plaintifff; and
if the allegation be denied, the plaintifff must prove, on the trial, the
{lac-ts, showing that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of
1m.

SEC. 376. (373.) Justiﬁcation and mitigation—Evidence.-—123. In all
actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant may allege the
truth of the matter chargedas defamatory and mitigating circum
stances to reduce the damages, and give either or both in evidence.
SEC. 377. (374.) Presumption—Matters of judicial notice—124. Neither
presumptions of law nor matters of which judicial notice is taken need
be stated in a pleading.

SEC. 378. (375.) Property distrained—Suﬁicient answer.—-125. In an
action to recover the possession of property distrained doing damage,
an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command he acted,
was lawfully ossessed of the real property upon which the distress
was made, anld that the property distrained was at the time doing
damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title of such
real property.
SEC. 379. (376.) Liberal construction—Indeﬁniteness, how corrected.
SEC. 126. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determin
ing its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed; with a view
to substantial justice between the parties; but when the allegations of
B pleadin'g are so indeﬁnite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading
to be made deﬁnite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 380. (377.) Evidence under general denial—127. Under a mere
denial of any allegation, no evidence shall be introduced which does
not tend to negative what the party making the allegation is bound to
prove.

SEC. 381. (378.) Fictions abolished—128. All ﬁctions in pleading are
abolished, and tlreir use forbidden in the courts of justice in this state.
SEC. 382. (379.) Paper lost or withheld—Copy used.—- 129. If an
original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any person, the court
may authorize a copy thereof to be ﬁled and used instead of the
original.

SEC. 383. (380.) Copy of pleading for adverse party—Rule.—864. The
court may, by rule, require that, when the complaint, answer, or reply
in any cause is ﬁled, the party ﬁling the same shall also ﬁle one copy
thereof for the use of the opposite party, but no copy of any exhibit
need be ﬁled; and for the ﬁling of which copy no fee shall be taxed by
the clerk. ‘
SEC. 384. (381.) Case numbers continuous.~—865. Each case, when it
is ﬁrst ﬁled and entered, shall be numbered; and thereafter, in all its
stages in the same court, and upon every docket and book, such cause,
and all the papers and exhibits ﬁled therein, shall bear the same num
ber as when ﬁrst ﬁled.
SEC. 385. ( 382.) Sham pleadings—847. An answer or other pleading
shall be rejected as sham, either when it plainly appears upon the face
thereof to be false in fact, and intended merely for delay, or when
shown to be so by the answers of the party to special written interrog~
atories propounded to him to ascertain whether the pleading is false;
and all surplusage, tautology, and irrelevant matter shall be set aside
and struck out of any pleading, when pointed out by the party
aggrieved.

SEC. 386. (383.) Allegations, when taken as true.—110. Every mate
rial allegation of the complaint not controverted by the answer, and
every material allegation of new matter in the answer not controverted
by the reply, shall, for the purpose of the action, be taken as true;
but the allegations of new matter in a reply are to be deemed contro
erted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require. Allegations of value or amount of damage shall
not be considered as true by the failure to controvert them; but in ac
tions upon account, in which an itemized bill of particulars, the
correctness of which is duly afﬁrmed or sworn to by the plaintifff, or
some one in his behalf, has been ﬁled with the complaint, at default
by the defendant shall be deemed to admit the correctness of the bill
of particulars, as sworn or affirmed to, and judgment may be rendered
thereon without further evidence.

SEC. 387. (384.) Damages, when recoverable—445. Whenever dam
ages are recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover, if he show
himself entitled thereto, any damages which he might have heretofore
recovered for the same cause of action.
SEC. 338. (385.) Relief—Extent thereof—450. The relief granted to
the plaintifff, if there be no answer, can not exceed the relief demanded
in his complaint; but, in any other case, the court may grant him
any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint and em
braced within the issue.
SEC. 389. (386.) When party constructively summoned may defend.—
67. A defendant constructively summoned shall be allowed, at any
time before judgment, to appear and defend the action; and upon a
substantial defense being disclosed, time may be given, onreasonable
terms, to prepare for trial.

SEC. 390. (387.) Complaint must be proVed.——68. The statements of a
complaint against a defendant constructively summoned, and who
has not appeared, except such as are for his beneﬁt, shall not be taken
as true, but shall be established by proof.
SEC. 391. (388.) Plaintiﬁ may be examined—69. Before rendering
judgment against a defendant constructively summoned and who has
not appeared, the court may cause the plaintifff to appear personally
in court, or before a commissioner, and answer, under oath, interrog
atories concerning the matters in the complaint, or any matters which
might be set up in defense thereto, including matters of set-off and
counterclaim, and may order the examination to be reduced to writ—
ing, and ﬁled with the papers of the action.
SEC. 392. (389.) Adjustment of set-off or counterclaim—70. If, upon
the examination provided in the last section, any matters of set-off or
counterclaim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted by the judg
ment.
SEC. 393. (390.) No personal judgment—71. No personal judgment
shall be rendered against a defendant constructively summoned, who
has not appeared in the action.

SEC. 394. (391.) Variance immaterial, unless party misled—130. No
variance between the allegations in a pleading and the proof is to be
deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse party, to
his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.
Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact must
be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must be shown in
what respect he has been misled; and, thereupon, the court may order
the pleading to be amended on such terms as may be just.

SEC. 395. (392.) Variance immaterial—Action 0fcourt.-131. Where
the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court
may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may order
an immediate amendment, without costs.
SEC. 396. (393.) Failure of proof.-—132. When, however, the allega
tion of the claim or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved,
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within the last
two sections, but a failure of proof. 
SEC. 397. (394.) Amendment—Delay thereby—Aﬁidavit.-133. Any
pleading may be amended by either party, of course, at any time, be
fore the pleading is answered. All other amendments shall be by
leave of the court. The party amending shall pay the costs of the
leave to amend. When the trial is not delayed by reason of the
amendment, no other costs shall be taxed. When the amendment
causes a delay during any part of the term, or to another term, the
party amending shall pay the costs of such delay. N0 cause shall be
delayed by reason of an amendment, excepting only the time to make
up issues, but upon good cause shown by afﬁdavit of the party or his
agent asking such delay.

SEC. 398. (395.) Contents of aﬁidavit—Pleadings, when ﬁled—134.
The afﬁdavit shall show distinctly in what respect the party asking
the delay has been prejudiced in his preparation for trial by the
amendment. When the action is continued for such cause, the party
asking the delay shall ﬁle his pleadings at such time as the court may
direct.
SEC. 399. (396.) Names of parties—Pleadings corrected—Relief from
judgment.—135. The court may, at any time, in its discretion, and
upon such terms as may be deemed proper for the furtherance of
justice, direct the name of any party to be added or struck out; a mis
take in name, description, or legal eﬁect, or in any other respect, to
be corrected; any material allegation to be. inserted, struck out, or
modiﬁed—to conform the pleadings to the facts proved, when the
amendment does not substantially change the claim or defense. The
court may also, in its discretion, allow a party to ﬁle his pleadings
after the time limited therefore; and shall relieve a party from a judg
ment taken against him, through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect, and supply an omission in any proceedings, on
complaint or motion ﬁled within two years.

SEC. 400. (397.) Name Of defendant. —- 136. When the plaintifff is
ignorant of the name of the defendant, such defendant may be desig
nated in any pleading or proceeding by any name; and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended ac
cordingly, either before or after service of the summons.

SEC. 401. (398.) Judgment not reversed for technical errors—137. The
court must, in every stage of the action, disregard any error or defect
in the pleadings or proceedings which does not affect the substantial
rights of the adverse party; and no judgment can be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.
SEC. 402. (399.) Supplemental pleadings—138. The court may, on
motion, allow supplemental pleadings, showing facts which occurred
after the former pleadings were ﬁled.
SEC. 403. (400.) Calling of- causes—Completing issues—104. On the
second and each succeeding day of the term, the court shall call as
many of the causes which stand for trial at such term, for issues, as
the business of the court will permit; the court shall call the causes
in the order they stand on the docket, and shall compel the parties to
ﬁle their respective pleadings and answers to interrogatories, at such
time as the court shall deem just, in no case allowing unreasonable de~
lay; and the pleadings shall be completed at an early day of the term.
SEC. 404. (401.) Judgment on failure to plead—Exception.—-105. If,
from any cause, either party shall fail to plead or make up the issues
within the time prescribed, the court shall forthwith enter judgment
as upon a default, unless, for good cause shown, further time be given
for pleading, on the payment of the costs occasioned by the delay.
SEC. 405. (402.) Entry-docket of clerk—426. The clerk shall keep an ‘
entry-docket, wherein he shall enter all actions in the order in which
they are brought, and the date of issuing the process, and the date of
the judgment. Within three weeks after the adjournment of the court
he shall make out an issue-docket for all actions then pending, and
shall docket therein all cases which may be commenced previous to
the ﬁrst day of the next term, in their order, and furnish a copy of
the same for the use of the court.
SEC. 406. (403.) Issues of fact—When tried—Damages assessed—427.
The trial of any issue of fact shall be on or after the day on which the
cause is set on the docket, unless otherwise agreed by the parties. The
assessment of damages, in case of default, shall be on or after the day
on which the default is taken.
If a cause is tried out of its order it will be presumed, in the absence of a showing,
that there was good cause therefore. French 1:. Howard, 14 Ind. 455.
Parties can not be forced into the trial of a cause before the day set. Lines v. Benner,
52 Ind. 195.
I! the record show that there was no defense, there is no available error in compell
ing a defendant to go to trial before the day on which the cause is set. Fitch v. Citi
zens Bk., 97 Ind. 211.
SEC. 407. (404.) Docket entries—428. The entry on the docket shall
show whether or not the summons has been fully served or notice
given in due time for trial, and whether or not the issues have been
formed.
SEC. 408. (405.) Judge to arrange order of business—430. The cir
cuit judges of this state shall have power, and it is hereby made their
duty, by proper order, to arrange and regulate the order of business
in their respective circuits; and in making such order they shall pro
vide,—
First. For the making up of issues and transaction of probate busi
ness.
Second. For the trial of criminal cases.
Third. For the trial of civil cases.

SEC. 409. (406.) Issues—Two kinds—368. Issues arise on the plead
ings, where a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and
controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:
First. Of law.
Second. Of fact.

SEC. 410. (407.) Issues of law.—369. An issue of law arises upon de
murrer t0 the complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.
SEC. 411. (408.) Issues 0f fact—370. An issue of fact arises—
First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, denied by the
answer.
Second. Upon material new matter in the answer, denied by the
reply.
Third. Upon material new matter in the reply, which shall be con
sidered as controverted by the opposite party without further pleading.
SEC. 412. (409.) Causes, how tried—Distinction.—372. Issues of law
and issues of fact in causes that, prior to the 18th day of June, 1852,
were of exclusive equitable jurisdiction, shall be tried by the court;
issues of fact in all other causes shall be triable as the same are now I
triable. In case of the joinder of causes of action or defenses which,
prior to said date, were of exclusive equitable jurisdiction, with causes
of action or defenses which, prior to said date, were designated as ac- tions at law and triable by jury—the former shall be triable by the
court, and the latter by a jury, unless waived; the trial of both may
be at the same time or at different times, as the court may direct:
Provided, That in all cases triable by the court as above directed, the
court, in its discretion, for its information, may cause any question
of fact to be tried by a jury, or the court may refer any such cause to
a master commissioner, for hearing and report.

SEC. 413. (410.) Continuance 0n aﬁidavit.—-374. A motion to postpone
e trial on account of the absence of evidence can be made only upon
afﬁdavit, showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be ob
tained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it, and where
the evidence may be; and if it is for an absent witness, the afﬁdavit
must show the name and residence of the witness, if known, and the
I probability of procuring the testimony within a reasonable time, and
F..
that his absence has not been procured by the act or connivance of the
party, nor by others at his request, nor with his knowledge and con
“11¢, and what facts he believes the witness will testify to, and that
he believes them to be true, and that he is unable to prove such facts
by any other witness whose testimony can be as readily procured. If,
4 thereupon, the ad verse party will consent that, on the trial, the facts
Shall be taken as true, if the absent evidence is written or documentary,
P" “ml, in case of a witness, that he will testify to said facts as true, the
trial shall not be postponed for that cause; and, in such case, the
party against whom such evidence is used shall have the right to im
peach such absent witness, as in case where the witness is present or
his deposition is used.

SEC. 414. Cause for (30ntinllance.—l. That whenever any plaintifff or
defendant in a civil action or a defendant in a criminal action, shall
make an afﬁdavit that his or her attorney is a member of the general
assembly of the state of Indiana, and that the general assembly is in
session, and further that such attorney was employed in the cause as
his or her chief attorne'y before the beginning of such session and be
fore the election of such attorney to the general assembly, and that
such attorney is the only attorney employed by such afﬁant in any
such cause, or that such attorney is the only attorney employed by
such aﬂiant who is prepared to try such cause for any such afﬁant;
and upon such afﬁdavit move the court for a continuance of such
cause, the court shall grant the same until three days after the ad
journment of the then session of such general assembly.
SEC. 415. (411.) Continuance by court—Provis0.-—375. Any court, for
good cause shown, may continue any action at' any stage of the pro
ceedings, at the cost of the applicant, to be paid as the court shall direct: Provided, That if, by reason of an amendment to the pleadings,
a party who would otherwise be ready for trial be compelled to obtain
a continuance, it shall be at the .costs of the party making the amend
ment.

SEC. 416. (412.) Causes ton—255. The court in term, or the judge
thereof in vacation, shall change the venue of any civil action upon
the application of either party, made upon afﬁdavit showing one or
more of the following causes:
First. That the judge has been engaged as counsel in the cause
prior to his election or appointment as judge, or is otherwise interested
in the cause.
Second. That the judge is of kin to either party.
Third. That the opposite party has an undue inﬂuence over the
citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches to the applicant, or
to his cause of action or defense, on account of local prejudice.
Fourth. When the county is a party to the suit.
Fifth. Showing to the satisfaction of the court that the convenience
of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
_ Sixth. That the judge of the court wherein such action is pending,
18 a material witness for the party applying for such change.
_Seveuth. When either party shall make and ﬁle an afﬁdavit of the
bias, prejudice, or interest of the judge before whom the said cause is
pending.

SEC. 417. (413.) Change from county— Costs—One change.— 256.
When a change of venue is directed for any of the causes mentioned
in the third, fourth, and ﬁfth speciﬁcations of the preceding-section,
the court or judge shall designate the county to which the venue shall
be changed (which may be in the same or in an adjoining circuit, as
may be deemed best for the furtherance of justice), and shall prescribe
the time within which the applicant shall pay the costs of the change;
and the clerk of thelcourt in which the suit is pending, as soon as the
costs of the change are paid, shall forthwith transmit all the papers
and a transcript of all the proceedings to the clerk of the court
of the county to which the venue is changed; and the clerk of
the propencourt shall receive the papers and transcript, giving a re
ceipt therefore, and docket _the action in its order among the other
causes of the court; and the action shall stand for trial at the ﬁrst
term, and shall be tried or otherwise disposed of in the same manner
as if the cause had originated in that court. If the party fail to pay
the costs of the change within the time prescribed by the court, he
shall be taxed with all the costs made in the case up to the time of
such failure, and shall not be entitled to a change of venue from the
county. Only one change of venue shall be granted to the same party
from the county, and only one from the judge.

SEC. 418. (414.) Payment to county of expenses of trial.—1. In all
cases where there has been or shall be a change of venue from one
county to another, the county from which the change of venue shall
have been or shall be taken shall be liable to pay to the county to
which such change shall have been or shall be taken all such expenses
as shall have been or shall be incurred by such county to which such
change shall have been or shall be taken, in consequence of such
change, and in all cases, the fees paid by such county to the jury try
ing the case, and any of the regular panel not engaged in such trial,
allowance to bailiffs, and all other expenses necessarily incurred by
such county, and consequent upon such change of venue and the trial
of such cause. Such expenses shall be audited and allowed by the
court to which such cases shall have been changed; and such court
shall certify such allowance to the auditor of the county from which
the change of venue was ﬁrst taken; and such auditor shall issue his
warrant on the treasurer of the county for the amount so allowed and
certiﬁed. 

SEC. 419, (415.) Change from judge—257. When the change of venue
is granted for any of the causes named in the ﬁrst, second, sixth, or
seventh speciﬁcations mentioned in the above section [§ 412], the
court or judge shall call a judge of any circuit, superior, or other court
of general jurisdiction, or any judge of the supreme court, to preside
in such case, and try the same; or, if it shall be difﬁcult, in the opin
ion of the court, for any cause, to procure the attendance of such
judge, the court, in order to prevent delay, may appoint any com
petent and disinterested attorney of this state, in good standing, to act
as judge in said cause, who, if he consent to serve, shall be qualiﬁed
as other judges, and his appointment and oath shall be ﬁled with the
clerk and entered on the order-book; and he shall have power to hear
and determine said cause until the same is ﬁnally disposed of, 01‘
change thevenue thereof in proper cases.
SEC. 420. (416.) Pay of special judge—258. When a judge is called
upon to preside in the place of the regular judge, either at a regular or
an adjourned term, whether selected from the bench or bar, he shall
be allowed the sum of ﬁve dollars per day for the time actually served,
and in going to and returning, to be paid as follows: On the pre
sentation of an order made by the court for the allowance, specifying
the time of service, supported by an afﬁdavit of the special judge, that
he actually served such time; and an afﬁdavit of the regular judge, if
any, stating the reason for the services of such special judge, the same
shall be paid out of the county treasury for the time being, for which
the county shall have credit on settlement of the treasurer with the
state: Provided, That in all cases where a special judge shall be called,
the compensation paid, as herein provided, shall be deducted by the
auditor of state from the pay of such regular judge, except when such
special judge is called to preside in cases on change of venue, or when
such regular judge shall have a pecuniary interest in, be a party to, or
be related to any party to said suit by blood or marriage, or may have
been of counsel in any such cause pending, or may be absent on ac
count of serious illness of himself or family.

SEC. 421. (417.) No change in vacation—Exception.—-259. No change
of venue shall be granted in vacation, unless the opposite party has
had ten days’ notice.
SEC. 422. ( 418.) Before whom taken—287. Depositions of witnesses,
taken within or without the state, may be taken, according to the regu
lations hereinafter provided, before any judge, justice of the peace,
notary-public, mayor or recorder of a city, clerk of a court of record,
or commissioner appointed by the court to take depositions; but de
positions shall not be taken before any person being of kin to either
party, or'interested in the action.
SEC. 423. (419.) Notice—Contents—Service.-—288. A party wishing
to take depositions shall give notice to the adverse party, if there be
only one person; if there be sevcral, to any one of them who is a real
party in interest, his agent or attorney. Such notice shall specify—
irst. The cause or matter in which the deposition is to be used.
Second. The court or tribunal in which the trial is to be had.
Third. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the names
of the witnesses.

SEC. 424. (420-) Time to travel, etc., allowed—289. The adverse party
shallbe allowed a reasonable time to travel from his usual place of
abode to the place of taking the deposition, by {the ordinary route of
travel, exclusive of the day of service, the day of taking the deposi
tion, and intervening Sundays. If served on an attorney or agent, a
reasonable time shall be allowed him to communicate the same to the
party.
SEC. 425. (421.) Notice, how served—290. The notice may be served
in the same manner, and by any person authorized to serve a sum
mons for a witness. If neither the party nor his agent or attorney
reside in this state, the notice may be ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce or pub
lished three weeks successively in the county in which the suit is
pending.
SEC. 426. (422.) When court may on“ taking.——291. In all actions
the court may order the taking of depositions, whenever deemed nec
essary to determine the rights of the parties, or to expedite the trial of
causes; and may, if necessary for that purpose, ordel‘ *1 continuance
until the next term.
SEC. 427. (423.) When taken and used—292. In all actions deposi
tions may be taken by either party, in vacation or term time, at any
tune after service of summons, without order of court therefore. They
may be used in the trial of all issues, in any action, in the following
cases:
First. Where the witness does not reside in the county, or in a
county adjoining the one in which the trial is to be held, or is absent
from the State.
_ 0
Seco'nd. When the deponent is so aged, inﬁrm, or sick, as not to be
able to attend the court or other place of trial, or is dead.
Third. When the depositions have been taken by agreement of
parties, or by the order of the court trying the cause.
Fourth. When the deponent is a state or county ofﬁcer, or a judge,
or a practicing physician, or attorney at law, and the trial is to be had
in any county in which the deponent does not reside. In either of the
ioregoing cases, the attendance of the witness can not be enforced.
Fifth. When notice is given ﬁxing the time of taking any deposi
tion on a day in term time, the court may, if in session, or the judge
thereof in vacation, on notice given by the adverse party of the time
and place of hearing the motion, ﬁx another day for such taking, and
the court, on the hearing of such motion, may ﬁx the time for such
taking, from which there shall be no appeal.

SEC. 428. ( 424.) Deponent not obliged to leave county—293. A witness
is not obliged to attend for examination upon a deposition in any
other county than that of his residence, but may consent to do so.
SEC. 429. (425.) When not read—Exception.—294. N0 deposition shall
be read in evidence on the trial of a cause, if at that time the witness
is produced in court, unless the deposition has been taken by the
agreement of the parties or by the order of the court.
SEC. 430. (426.) Attendance, how enforced—295. The ofﬁcer taking
the deposition shall have power to summon and compel the attendance
of witnesses. In case of the refusal of a witness to attend or testify,
such fact shall be reported by the officer to any circuit or superior
court of the county, or the judge thereof, and such court or judge
shall order such witness to attend and testify; and on failure or re—
fusal to obey such order, such witness shall be dealt with as for a
contempt.
SEC. 431. (427.) All oﬁicers to report non-attendance.—296. The pro
visions of the last section shall extend to all ofﬁcers and commission
ers authorized to take depositions in this state, to be read in the courts
of other states or countries.
SEC. 432. (428.) Oath—Manner of examination—297. The deponent
shall ﬁrst be sworn by the“oﬁicer to testify to the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause or matter for
which the deposition is to be taken; and he shall then be examined
by the party producing him, and then by the adverse party, and by
the ofﬁcer or parties afterward, if they see cause.
SEC. 433. (429.) By whom written and signed—298. .The deposition
shall be written down by the oﬂicer, or by the deponent, or by some
disinterested person, in the presence and under the direction of the
officer; and after the same has been carefully read to or by the depo
nent, it shall be subscribed by him.
SEC. 434. (430.) Certiﬁcate—299. The ofﬁcer shall annex a certiﬁcate
to the deposition, stating the following facts:
First. That the deponent was sworn according to law.
Second. By whom the deposition was written; and if written by the
deponent or some disinterested person, that it was written in the pres
ence and under the direction of the ofﬁcer.
Third. Whether or not the adverse party attended.
Fourth. The time and place of taking the deposition, and the hours
between which the same was taken.
And the ofﬁcer shall sign and attest the certiﬁcate, and seal the .
same, if he have a seal of oﬁice.

SEC. 435. (431.) Sealing—Inclosing—Directing—lndorsing.-—300. The
ofﬁcer taking the deposition shal seal up the same in a suﬂicient pa
per envelope, and direct the same to the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending, indorsing on the envelope the names of the
parties and of the witnesses whose depositions are inclosed.
SEC. 436. (432.) Cause of taking shown at reading.—301. When a
deposition is offered to be read in evidence, it must appear to the sat
isfaction of the court that the cause for taking and reading it still
exists. 
SEC. 437. (433-) Commission only for i0reign country.~—302. When a
deposition is to be taken within or without the state, but within the
United States, no commission shall be necessary for taking the depo
sition. When taken out of the United States, the clerk shall, upon
the request of the party taking the deposition, issue a commission to
the ofﬁcer or commissioner designated to take the deposition. No
order of court or afﬁdavit shall be necessary to authorize the issuing
of the commission.
SEC. 438. (434.) Certiﬁcate—When authenticated—303. When the
commission contains the name of the ofﬁcer before whom the depo
sition is to be taken, his attestation, ofﬁcially certifying the same, shall
be sufﬁcient; but if the commission do not specify the name of the
ofﬁcer, and he have no ofﬁcial seal, his certiﬁcate shall be authenti
cated by the certiﬁcate and seal of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court of record of the county in which the officer exercises the duties
of his ofﬁce.

SEC. 439. (435.) Foreign deposition, how taken—Notice.—304. When
depositions are to be taken in a foreign country, they shall be taken
pursuant to an order of the court, under a commission, with such
reasonable notice of the time and place of taking the same as the court
shall require; and they shall be certiﬁed and returned by the commis
sioner in such manner as the court shall direct.
SEC. 440. (436.) Filing—Continuance, when had—305. Every deposi
tion intended to be read in evidence must be ﬁled in court at least one
day before the time at which the cause in which the deposition is to be
used stands on the docket for trial; or, if ﬁled afterward, and claimed
to be used on the trial, the adverse party shall be entitled to a con
tinuance, at the costs of the party ﬁling the deposition, upon showing
good cause by affidavit. 

SEC. 441. (437.) Publication, when had—306. Dispositions, after be
ing ﬁled, may be published by the clerk, at the request of either party,
after giving the other, his agent or attorney, reasonable notice of the
time of publication; or they may be published by order of the court
on the motion of either party.
SEC. 442. (438.) Objections to competency.—-307. Objections to the
competency of a deponent, or to the propriety of any questions pro—
posed to him or answers given by him, may be made at the time of
taking his deposition, or in court whether made at the taking of the
deposition or_ not.

SEC. 443. (439.) Objections to validity.—308. All objections to the
validity of any deposition, or its admissibility in evidence, shall be
made before entering upon the trial; not afterward. But any deposi
tion after the commencement of the trial may be suppressed, if any
matter which is not disclosed in the deposition appears, which is sufﬁ
cient to authorize such suppression.
SEC. 444. (440.) When used in another action—309. When an action
has been dismissed, and another action has been commenced for the
same cause, the depositions taken iii the ﬁrst action may be used in
the second or any other action between the parties, or their assignees
or representatives, for the same cause; but it must appear that the
depositions have been duly ﬁled in the court where the previous cause
was pending, and have remained on ﬁle from the time the action was
dismissed until the time at’which it was proposed to use them.
SEC. 445, (441.) Perpetuating testimony—Notice. — 310. Whenever
any person shall make aﬁidavit before any circuit or superior court, or
judge thereof, or clerk of the court, that such person exPects to be
made a party in any action thereafter to be commenced, and that the
testimony of the afﬁant or any other person, whether residing within
or out of the state, to be named in the afﬁdavit, is material and neces
sary to the prosecution or defense thereof, the court or ofﬁcer before
whom the afﬁdavit is made shall order reasonable notice to be given to
the party expected to be adverse to the applicant, or to his attorney,
that on the day and at the place in such notice to be expressed, the
witness will be examined conditionally before such ofﬁcer as shall be
speciﬁed in the order.

SEC. 446. (442.) Manner of taking—311. Upon proof that the notice
has been given, either by personal service, or advertisement at least
three weeks successively in some newspaper published in the proper
county, or the one most convenient thereto (when the person to be
notiﬁed is not an inhabitant of the state), being made to the ofﬁcer
authorized to take the testimony, he shall proceed to take, and certify,
seal up, and return the depositions according to the rules provided for
other depositions in this act.
SEC. 447. (443.) Filing and keeping sealed—312. Every afﬁdavit and
order, and every deposition, so taken and certified, shall, within thirty
days after the deposition is taken, be ﬁled in the office of the clerk of
the proper court of the county where the subject-matter of such ex
pected suit may be situated. The clerk shall ﬁle said deposition, and
it shall remain sealed until published by order of the court after com
mencement of such expected action.
SEC. 448. (444-) Publication—313. Any deposition which has hereto
fore been taken and ﬁled for the purpose of perpetuating testimony, in'
pursuance of any existing or former statute of this state, as well as
any deposition which may hereafter be taken and ﬁled to perpetuate
testimony, may, at any time, either before or after the commencement
of the action in anticipation of which such deposition may have been
taken, be published by order of the court in the ofﬁce of whose clerk
the same may be ﬁled, on the motion of any person or party interested
in the preservation of the testimony; and such deposition, with all the
accompanying afﬁdavits, orders, notices and other documents shall be
directed by such court to be entered of record in the order-book of
such court, at the cost of the party making such motion; and such
record shall contain a statement or recital of the date of the filing of
such deposition.
SEC. 449. (445.) Record and copy—Evidence—314. The record of any
deposition recorded under the provisions of the last section, and copies
of such record, duly certiﬁed, may be used as evidence whenever and
wherever the original deposition might be used.
SEC. 450. (446.) Deposition, when used. — 315. Upon proof of the
death, insanity, or absence from the state of such witness, or inability
by reason of age or inﬁrmity to attend, the deposition, or a certiﬁed
@0py thereof by the clerk of the court where the same is ﬁled, shall be
admitted as evidence in any court in this state, in any cause between
the parties named in the afﬁdavit, or in any cause between persons
claiming under either of said parties, and shall have like effect as if
the witness had been personally present, and given oral testimony
therein, saving the right of exceptions in all cases on account of the
incompetency of the witness or of any part of the testimony contained
in the deposition.
SEC. 451. (447.) Unimportant deviatiOn.—316. An unimportant devi
ation from any direction relative to taking depositions shall not cause
any deposition to be excluded where no substantial prejudice would be
done to the opposite party.

SEC. 452. (448.) Adverse party, when allowed expenses—317. When
a party shall, in response to a notice to take depositions orally, attend
at the time and place, by himself or attorney, and the deposition shall
not be taken, he shall, upon notice and affidavit of the facts, have
judgment against the party at whose instance the notice was given, for
two dollars per day for each day he may attend under the notice, and
six cents per mile for the distance necessarily traveled in going to and
returning from the place ﬁxed for taking such depositions, unless it
shall be shown that the failure to take such depositions did not result
from the negligence or fault of the party giving the notice.
SEC. 453. (449.) Taking by interrogatories—Proviso.—318. The dep
.osition may be taken upon written interrogatories as follows: The party
desiring to take such deposition shall serve notice of his intention,
together with a copy of the interrogatories which he intends to pro
pound. The opposite party may ﬁle with the clerk within ﬁve days
such cross-interrogatories as he desires to propound. The clerk shall
then issue to some ofﬁcer, by him to be selected, authorized to take
depositions, a commission with the interrogatories, cross-interroga
tories, and re-examining interrogatories annexed thereto, requiring
him to cause the witness to come before him at such time and place as
he may appoint, and to faithfully take his deposition, upon the ques
tions annexed to the commission, and, thereupon, to make return to
the court of his doings under such commission without delay. The
‘ofﬁcer shall ﬁrst swear or afﬁrm the witness, that he will make a true,
full, and perfect answer to the interrogatories to be propounded to
him; and then he shall propound the interrogatories annexed to the
commission in their order, and accurately write the answers of the
witness to such. He shall then read carefully to the witness such in
terrogatories and his answers thereto, and correct the answers as the
witness may desire; and then the witness shall sign such deposition.
Neither the parties, their agents or attorneys, shall be present, 110!“
shall they, or any of them, be informed of the nature of the evidence
until the deposition is ﬁnished. The ofﬁcer shall annex to the depo
sition his certiﬁcate, showing, speciﬁcally, a fulﬁllment of each r8
quirement of this section; and shall then inclose the deposition with
the commission, interrogatories, and answers securely sealed, and trans
mit the same, addressed to the clerk of the court in which the suit is
pending, with the title of the cause indorsed thereon: Provided, how
ever, If the party served with notice, as in this section provided, shall
prefer to cross-examine the witness orally, he shall notify the opposite
party of such election within three days after receiving notice, and,
in that case, the deposition shall not be taken without notice to him of
the time and place thereof, and he shall have the privilege of an oral
cross-examination; and the commission and ofﬁcer’s certiﬁcate shall
be modiﬁed accordingly.

SEC. 454. (450.) Sealed and unsealed writings—319. There shall be
no difference in evidence between sealed an unsealed writings; and
every writing not sealed shall have the same force and effect that it
would have if sealed. A writing under seal, except conveyances of
real estate, or any interest therein, may, thereforee, be changed, or alto
gether discharged, by a writing not under seal. An agreement in
writing, without a seal, for the compromise or settlement of a debt, is
as obligatory as if a seal were aifixed.
SEC. 455. (451.) Instruments, how executed—320. The execution of
an instrument is the subscribing and delivering it, with or without
afﬁxing a seal.
SEC. 456. (452.) Effect Of recitals—321. Recitals in any written in
strument shall have no greater effect than they have heretofore had in
writings not under seal.
SEC. 457. (453.) Effect of last three sections—322. The last three sec
tions do not repeal or affect any statute of this state expressly requir
ing a seal to a deed or other instrument.
SEC. 458. (454.) Legislative acts and judicial records authenticated—
Eﬁect,-905. The acts of the legislature of any state or territory, or
of any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, shall be
authenticated by having the seals of such state, territory or country
afﬁxed thereto. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts of
any state or territory, or of any such country, shall be proved or ad
mitted in any other court within the United States by the attestation
of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, to
gether with a certiﬁcate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding mag
istrate, that the said attestation is in due form. And the said records
and judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and
credit given to them in every court within the United States as
they have by law or usage in the courts of the state from which the)r
are taken. 

SEC. 459. (455.) Other public records, how authenticatedé-Eiiect.—906.
All records and exempliﬁcations of books, which may be kept in any pub
lic oiﬁce of any state or territory, or of any country subject to the juris
diction of the United States, not appertaining to a court, shall be
proved or admitted in any court or ofﬁce in any other state or terri
tory, or in any such country, by the attestation of the keeper of said
records or books, and the seal of his ofﬁce annexed, if there be a seal,
together with a certiﬁcate of the presiding justice of the court of the
county, parish, or district in which such ofﬁce may be kept, or of the
governor, or secretary of state, the chancellor, or keeper of the great
seal, of the state, or territory, or country, that the said attestation is
in due form, and by the proper ofﬁcers. It the said certiﬁcate is given
by the presiding justice of a court, it shall be further authenticated by
the clerk or prothonotary of the said court, who shall certify, under
his hand and the seal of his ofﬁce, that the said presiding justice
is duly commissioned and qualiﬁed; or, if given by such gov
ernor, secretary, chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it shall be
under the great seal of the state, territory or country aforesaid in which
it is made. And the said records and exempliﬁcations, so authenti
cated, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court
and ofﬁce within the United States as they have by law or usage in
the courts or oﬂ‘ices of the state, territory or country as aforesaid, from
which they are taken. 

SEC. 460. (456.) Indiana statutes, etc., evidence—323. The printed
statute books of this state, and of the late territory north-west of the
Ohio river, and the territories of Indiana and Illinois, purporting to
be printed under the authority of said state or territories, shall be
evidence in all courts and places of the acts therein contained.
SEC. 461. (457.) Statutes of other states, etc., evidence—324. The
printed statute books of the several states and territories of the United
States, purporting to be printed under the authority of those states and
territories, and any copy of any statute, or any part thereof, contained
therein, having attached thereto the certiﬁcate of the secretary of
state, under seal of the state, certifying the copy to be complete and
correct; that the statute book, from which the copy is taken, is de
posited in the ofﬁce of the secretary or in the state library; and is, by
him, believed to have been received under the authority of the state or
territory purporting to have enacted the same—shall be presumptive
evidence, in all courts, of the legislative acts, public or private, of
those states or territories respectively.

SEC. 462. (458.) Judgments of justices, etc., of other states—325.
Copies of the proceedings and judgments of any justice of the peace of
any state or territory of the United States, or of the District of Colum
bia, certiﬁed by the justice or justices, under his or their hands and
seals, before whom the proceedings were bad or judgments rendered,
or their successors in ofﬁce, or other justices having legal custody
thereof, that the same are true and complete copies of the proceedings
or judgments, with the certiﬁcate of the clerk or prothonotary of any
court of record of the county or district where said justice or justices
shall hold his or their ofﬁce or ofﬁces, certifying, under the seal of
said court, that the justice or justices was or were at the time when
the proceedings were had or judgments rendered, and when the copy
was taken, duly commissioned and qualiﬁed to act as such, shall be
admissible as evidence in any of the courts of this state.

SEC. 463. (459.) Judgments of justices in this state—326. Copies of
the proceedings and judgments of any justice of the peace of this state,
certiﬁed under his hand and seal, or under the hand and seal of the
justice who may have the legal custody thereof, as true and complete
copies of such proceedings or judgments, shall be received as evidence
in the several courts in this state.

SEC. 464. (460.) Certiﬁcates of notaries public.—-327. Certiﬁcates or
instruments, either printed or written, purporting to be the ofﬁcial act
(if a notary public of this state, of the District of Columbia, or of any
other state or territory of the United States, and purporting to be un
der the seal and signature of such notary public, shall be received 88
presumptive evidence of the ofﬁcial character of such instrument and
of the ~facts therein set forth.

SEC. 465. (461.) Certiﬁcate of secretary of state—328. The certiﬁcate
of the secretary of state, under the seal of state, stating the time when
any actor acts of the general assembly were deposited in his ofﬁce, or
deposited in the ofﬁce of the clerk of any circuit or superior court in
this state, as shall appear from the certiﬁcate or receipt of any such
clerk, shall be admissible in all the courts of this state as evidence of
the facts stated in such secretary’s certiﬁcate.
SEC. 466. (462.) Copies of records, etc., in public Wicca—329. Exem
pliﬁcations or copies of records, and recordsof deeds and other instru
ments, or of ofﬁce books or parts thereof, and ofﬁcial bonds which are
kept in any public ofﬁce in this state, shall be proved or admitted as
legal evidence in any court or ofﬁce in this state, by the attestation of
the keeper of said records, or books, deeds or other instruments, or
ofﬁcial bonds, that the same are true and complete copies of the rec
ords, bonds, instruments, or books, or parts thereof in his custody,
and the seal of cities of said keeper thereto annexed, if there be a seal,
and if there be no ofﬁcial seal, there shall be attached to such attesta
tion, the certiﬁcate of the clerk, and the seal of the circuit or superior
court of the proper county where such keeper resides. that such attesta
tion is made by the proper ofﬁcer.

SEC. 467. (E. S. 21.) Deeds by administrators, and others—Evidence.—
1. That whenever, heretofore or hereafter, any deed shall have been
executed by any administrator, executor, guardian, sheriff, or com
missioner of court, by virtue of any order, judgment, or decree of
court, or by virtue of any will, or by virtue of any sale made upon
any execution issued on any judgment, and the record of such order,
decree of court, will, execution, or judgment, shall have been de~
stroyed by ﬁre in the burning of any court-house in this state, then
such deed, or the record thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of all
the facts recited in such deed, and of the regularity and sufﬁciency of
all the proceedings, records, and papers in virtue of which the deed
was executed.
SEC. 463. (E. S. 22.) Partition records—2. That whenever any parti
tion of real estate, in any county in this state, shall have been made
by judgment of any court in this state, and the records of the court
in which the proceedings for partition were had shall have been de
stroyed by ﬁre, in the burning of any court-house, a certiﬁed tran
script of the judgment of partition, and any record of the same, in the
recorder’s ofﬁce of the county wherein the real estate is situate, Shall
be admissible in evidence, without the residue of the record of such
proceedings, and shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the which
ency and regularity of all the proceedings, records, and papers in the
case in which such judgment was rendered.
SEC. 469. (E. S. 24.) General index of record—Evidencc.——1. That
when any deed or mortgage which has been or may be duly recorde
in the proper recorder’s oﬂice of any county in this state, and the rev
ord thereof has been or may be burned, or lost and destroyed, the {RIP
eral index of the record of such instrument, made in pursuance of law,
and in the handwriting of the county recorder at the date such general
index was made in any county of the state, shall be prima facie evi
dence of the proper execution and record of such deed or mortgage, as
shown by such general index: Provided, That this act shall not effect
[affect?] any litigation now pending in any of the courts of this state.

SEC. 470. (463.) Land office registers, etc—330. The register, cata
logue, tract-book, plat-book, and description of lands, kept at any
land ofﬁce of the United States located in this state, or at any ofﬁce
for the sale of canal or Michigan road lands, and copies thereof duly
certiﬁed as true and complete by their proper keeper, and copies duly
certiﬁed by the auditor of state as true and complete copies from said
original documents, or from copies of the same legally deposited in
the ofﬁce of said auditor of state, shall be admissible in evidence in
civil actions in all the courts of this state, and shall be taken and held
as prima facie evidence of the truth of their contents.

SEC. 471. (464.) Land-oﬁice certiﬁcates—331. Every certiﬁcate of pur
chase at a land-ofﬁce of the United States shall be evidence of legal title to the land therein described.
SEC. 472. (465.) Canal-land patents—Proviso.—332. Any and all con
veyances of land made, under the law existing at the time, by the
trustees or other persons designated by law to make such conveyance,
by whatever name such conveyance be known, conveying any of the
lands known as the “ Wabash and Erie Canal Lands,” or other canal
lands in this state, and signed by such trustees or other authorized
person, shall not be held invalid for want of a seal, or scrawl in lieu
thereof, nor because not duly acknowledged, but, if otherwise legal,
shall be deemed and taken as valid and sufﬁcient to convey the land
therein described, as fully and completely as if the same had been
duly sealed and acknowledged; and when the same have been recorded
in the records of deeds in the county wherein the lands therein de
scribed are located, the record thereof shall be taken and held to be
authorized and valid, as if said deed had been duly acknowledged, or
the execution thereof had been duly proven before record made; and
such conveyance and the record thereof are each hereby legalized and
declared valid and binding in law, as if the same had been made in
full and proper form before being recorded. And, from and after the
taking effect of this act, all such conveyances and the record thereof,
and exempliﬁcations of such record, shall be admissible in evidence
In all the courts in this state, in all cases where, by law, deeds and
records duly made and completed, are legal evidence, without regard
o said defects existing at the time of execution, delivery, and record,
as if said conveyances had been duly signed, sealed, and witnessed
and acknowledged at the time of execution, the delivery of, and the
recording thereof: Provided, That this act shall not apply to instru
ments defective in other respects than as in this act it is provided.
SEC. 473. (466.) Record of patents—Proviso.—333. All such deeds or
conveyances as are in the preceding section of this act referred to shall
be admitted to record; and it shall be lawful for the recorder of deeds
to record the same in the proper county, as if the same had been duly
acknowledged or the execution duly proved; and the record, when
made, shall have the same force and effect as if they had been so duly
acknowledged or proved: Provided, That nothing in this act contained
shall be so construed as to, in any wise, affect the rights of any pur
chaser in‘good faith for a valuable consideration without actual notice,
or the rights of any owner of any portion of the class of lands de
scribed in this act.

SEC. 474. ( 467.) Corporate acts proved by sworn copy—334. The acts
and proceedings of corporations may be proved by a sworn copy of
the record of such acts and proceedings. The oath shall state that
such transcript is a true and full copy of the original, and that such
original has remained unaltered from its date, to the best of depon
ent’s knowledge and belief. Such sworn copies shall be received as
evidence in all cases where the original would be evidence.
SEC. 475. (468.) Legislative acts of other states—335. Every act of
the legislature of any one of the states or territories of the United
States, certiﬁed by the secretary,wand having the seal of the state or
territory afﬁxed thereto, shall be deemed authentic, and receive full
faith and credit when offered in evidence in any court within the state.

SEC. 476. (469.) Register of Michigan road lands—336. The register
now remaining in the ofﬁce of the secretary of state of the sales of the
Michigan road lands, and certiﬁed copies of any entry therein, under
the seal of the state, shall be admissible in_evidence in all courts and
places; and such register, or a certiﬁed copy of the entry of the sale
of a tract of land therein described, by any person or persons therein
named as the purchaser thereof, shall be prima facie evidence that
such person or_persons designated in said register was the purchaser
thereof, and that the title to the same has been conveyed by the state
to the purchaser in fee-simple. 
SEC. 477. (470.) Patents and records—1. All patents issued by the
United States, or by the state of Indiana, conveying real estate in said
state, and the records of such patents as have been duly recorded, shall
be taken and received as competent evidence in all the courts of this
state; and all such patents that have not been'recorded may be recorded
as other deeds and conveyances are now recorded by law; and such
record shall be competent evidence in all the courts of the state.
SEC. 478. (471.) Record of patents, etc.—Evidence.—-337. The record
of all patents and all certiﬁcates of purchase, and all other evidence in
writing of the sale of real estate, whether issued by the United States
or by this state, or made by any person or corporation, and all duly
certiﬁed copies of such record, shall be admissible in evidence in all
courts and places, with the same force and effect as if the original was
produced.
SEC. 479. (472.) Proceedings of courts of record—338. The records
and judicial proceedings of the, several courts of record of or within
the United States or the territories thereof shall be admitted in the
courts within this state as evidence, by attestation or certiﬁcate of the
clerk or prothonotary, and the seal of the court annexed, together with
the seal of the chief justice or one or more of the judges, or the pre
siding magistrate of any such court, that the person who signed the
attestation or certiﬁcate was, at the time of subscribing it, the clerk or
phothonotary of the court, and that the attestation is in due form of
law; and the records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as afore
said, shall have full faith and credit given to them in any court within
this state, as by law or usage they have in the courts whence taken.

SEC. 480. Decisions of supreme court.—1. That in all cases where a certi
ﬁed copy of the decisions of the supreme court of the state of Indiana
would be competent evidence in any of the courts of the state, the de
cisions of said court as published in the Indiana reports, as provided
by the laws of this'state, when properly identiﬁed by parol or other
evidence, shall be competent evidence in such courts, the same as a
certiﬁed copy of the decision from the clerk’s ofﬁce of the court under
seal thereof.
SEC. 481. (473.) Proof of publication of notice—339. When notice is,
in any action, proceeding, or sale under execution, or other matter re
quired by the provisions of law to be given by publication in any
newspaper, an afﬁdavit of the printer, or any person in his employ as
a clerk or printer, of a competent age, annexed to a copy of the notice
taken from the paper in which it was published, may be ﬁled in the
clerk’s ofﬁce by the person whose duty it was to cause the publication
to be made. Such afﬁdavit must specify the county, the time when,
and the paper in which, the notice was published.
SEC. 432, (474.) Aﬁidavit and copy of notice presumptive evidence—340
The original afﬁdavit and copy of the notice, ﬁled pursuant to the pro
visions of the last section, and copies thereof 'duly certiﬁed by the
clerk, shall be presumptive evidence in all cases and before every
court of the facts contained in the affidavit.
SEC. 483. (475.) Afﬁdavit taken in another state, when evidence——
SEC. 341. “Then any afﬁdavit is taken in another state, and certiﬁed by
the ofﬁcer or justice of the peace taking the same, under his hand and
seal of ofﬁce, if he have any such seal, and attested by the clerk of the
circuit or district court, or court of common pleas of the county where
such oﬂicer exercises the duties of his ofﬁce, under the hand of the
clerk and seal of his court, the clerk also certifying that the ofﬁcer or
' 'justice of the peace is, by the laws of said state, duly empowered to
administer oaths and affirmations, and take affidavits, every such afﬁ
davit shall be deemed sufﬁciently authenticated, and may be received
Wait and used in any of the courts of this state.
SEC. 484. (476.) Common law and reports of other states—342. The
unwritten or common law of any other of the United States or of the
territories thereof, may be proved as facts by parol evidence; and the
the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may also be admitted
in evidence of such law.

SEC. 485. (477.) Law of foreign country.——343. The existence and
tenor or effect of the laws of any foreign country may be proved as facts
by parol evidence; but if it shall appear that the law in question is
contained in a written statute or code, the court may, in its discretion,
reject any evidence of Such law which is not accomPanied by a copy
thereof,
SEC. 486. (478.) When writing in evidence without proof.—352. If
either party, at any time before trial, allow the other an inspection of
any writing, material to the action, whether mentioned in the plead
ings or not, and deliver to him a copy thereof, with notice that he in
tends to read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may be
so read without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied
by affidavit before the commencement of the trial; if such denial be
made of any writing not mentioned in the pleadings, the court may
give time to either party to procure evidence, when necessary for the
furtherance of justice.
SEC. 487. (479.) Production of books, papers, etc—353. The court, or
judge thereof, may, upon afﬁdavit of their necessity and materiality,
upon motion, compel, by order, either party to produce, at or before
the trial, any book, paper or document in his possession or power; the
order may be made upon application of either party, upon reasonable
notice to the adverse party or his attorney._ If not produced, parol
evidence may be given of its contents.

SEC. 488. (480.) Inspection and copy, when ordered—354. The court,
or a judge thereof, may under proper restrictions, upon due notice,
order either party to give the other, within a speciﬁed time, an in
spection and copy of any book or part thereof, paper, or document in
his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to
the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance With
the order be refused, the court, on motion, may exclude such evidence,
or punish the party refusing, or both.
SEC. 489. (481.) Proof of service of process or notice—344. The proof
of theservice of any process issued by the court, or of any notice re
quired to be served upon any party, shall be as follows:
First. If served by the sheriff, his certiﬁcate thereof.
Second. By any other person, his afﬁdavit thereof.
Third. In case of publication, a printed copy, with the afﬁdavit of
the printer, his foreman or clerk, or of any competent witness.
Fourth. The written admission of the defendant. The affidavit or
admission must state the time and place of service.
SEC. 490. (482.) All notices in writing—Service. 854. In all cases
where notice is required’by this act, it must be in writing, and maybe
served by the proper ofﬁcer or any other person.
SEC. 491. (483.) Filing of clerk presumptive evidence—345. The clerk
shall indorse upon every paper ﬁled in his ofﬁce or in open court, and
upon every process returned to him or to the court, except summonses,
the date of the ﬁling and return; and the indorsement shall be pre
sumptive evidence of the time of the ﬁling and return.

SEC. 492. (484.) Summons—Service.—263. The clerk of the proper
court shall issue a summons for witnesses, upon the application of
any party to the action. The summons may be served by the party
or any person, or by the sheriff. The party, or any other person than
the sheriff, shall not be entitled to fees for the service. When a sum
mons is served by the sheriff, his return is proof of the service. When
served by any other person, the service must be shown by afﬁdavit.

SEC. 493. (485.) Service by copy, when.—264. Where a summons from
any court of this state, for a witness, can not be served by reading, on
account of the temporary absence of such witness from his last usual
place of residence within the jurisdiction of the oﬂicer having such
process, or when such witness so conceals himself within such jurisdic
tion that such process can not be read to him, the same may be served
by leaving a copy thereof, certiﬁed to be a true one, by such ofﬁcer
at such residence; but in no case shall such service by copy be made
when such ofﬁcer has reasonable cause to believe that such witness
has removed his residence without such jurisdiction.
SEC. 494. (486.) N0 attachment except upon affidavit—265. In no
case shall an attachment issue against awitness upon whom such serv
ice by copy only has been made, until the party applying therefore, or
his attorney, shall make affidavit in the court from which it is sought
to be issued, that he has reasonable cause to believe, and does believe,
that the witness against whom the summons issued has knowledge of
the service thereof by copy in time to have obeyed its commands.
SEC. 495. (487.) Summons, how issued—What to- contain—266. The
summons shall be issued and attested by the clerk without seal, and
one summons shall include all the witnesses required at the same time,
residing in the same county.

SEC. 496. (488.) More than three—C0sts—Excepti0n.—-267. If any
party summon more than three witnesses to prove the same fact, he
shall pay the costs occasioned by the additional number of witnesses,
unless the court shall otherwise order.

SEC. 497. (489.) In county—Prepayment unnecessary—268. Wit
nesses residing in the county where the court is held shall ,be com
pelled to attend in obedience to the summons, without payment or
tender of fees being ﬁrst made.
SEC. 498. (490.) Out of county—Prepaymentnecessary—269. A wit
ness shall not be obliged to attend before a court or judge out of the
county where he resides, unless his legal fees for traveling to and
from the court, and one day’s attendance, are paid or tendered before
or at the time of the service of the summons.
SEC. 499. (491.) Attachment for non-attendance— 270. The attend
ance of all witnesses when duly summoned, and to whom fees have
been paid or tendered, in cases required by law, may be enforced by
attachment.

SEC. 500. (492.) When non-resident witness may demand fees—271.
At the commencement of each day after the ﬁrst day, a witness at
tending a trial out of the county in which he resides shall be entitled
to demand and receive the legal fees for that day in advance. If not
thus paid, he is not compelled to attend or remain as a witness.

SEC. 501. (493.) Fees—Mileage—Circuit, etc., courts.— 27. Witness
fees in the circuit, superior, and criminal courts shall be as follows,
to wit:
Every witness attending the circuit, superior, and criminal courts,
in his own county, per day, one dollar ,and twenty-ﬁve cents.
Every witness attending the circuit, superior and criminal courts,
from another county, per day, one dollar and twenty-ﬁve cents.
For each mile necessarily traveled in going and returning from
court, from his residence, not to be computed beyond the limits of
adjoining county, ﬁve cents.

SEC. 502. (494.) Oath—F0111] 0f.-—272. Before testifying, every witness
shall be sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth. The mode of administering an oath shall be such as may
be most consistent with and binding upon the conscience of the per
son to whom the oath may be administered.

SEC. 503. (495.) Interpreters—Pay 0f.-—273. Interpreters may be sworn
to interpret truly whenever necessary; and they shall receive the same
fees and mileage as witnesses.
SEC. 504. (496.) Competent witnesses. —274. All persons, whether
parties to or interested in the suit, _shall be competent witnesses in a
civil action or proceeding, except as herein otherwise provided.

SEC. 505. (497.) Who are incompetent—275. ‘The following persons
shall not be competent witnesses:
First. Persons insane at the time they are Offered as Witnesses,
whether they have been so adjudged or not.
Second. Ghildren under ten years of age, unless it appears that they
understand the nature and obligation of an oath.
Third. Attorneys, as to conﬁdential communications made to them
in the course of their professional business, and as to advice given in
such cases.
Fourth. Physicians, as to matter communicated to them, as such,
by patients, in the course of their professional business, or advice
given in such cases.
Fifth. Clergymen, as to confessions or admissions made to them in
course of discipline enjoined by their respective churches.
Sixth. Husband and wife, as to communications made to each other.

SEC. 506. (498.) When an executor or administrator is party—Proviso.
-—276. In suits or proceedings in which an executor or administrator
is a party, involving matters which occurred during the life-time of
the decedent, where a judgment orlallowance may be made or ren
dered for or against the estate represented by such executor or admin
istrator, any person who is a necessary party to the issue or record,
whose interest is adverse to such estate, shall not be a competent wit
ness as to such matters against such estate: Provided, however, That
in cases where a deposition of such decedent has been taken, or he has
previously testiﬁed as to the matter, and his testimony or deposition
can be used as evidence for such executor or administrator, such ad
verse party shall be a competent witness for himself, but only as to
any matters embraced in such deposition or testimony.

SEC. 507. (499.) When heirs or devisees are parties—277. In all suits
by or against heirs or devisees, founded on a contract with or demand
against the ancestor, to obtain title to or possession of property, real
or personal, of, or in right of, such ancestor, or to affect the same 1"
any manner, neither party to such suit shall be a competent witness
as to any matter which occurred prior to the death of the ancestor.
SEC. 508. (500.) When agent of decedent testiﬁes—Restriction.—-278. I
When in any case an agent of a decedent shall testify on behalf of an
executor, administrator, or heirs, concerning any transaction, as hav~
lug been had by him, as such agent, with a party to the suit, his as- 1
signer or grantor, and in the absence of the decedent; or if any wit
ness shall, on behalf of the executor, administrator, or heirs, testify
to any conversation or admission of a party to the suit, his assignor
or grautor, as having been had or made in the absence of the deceased;
then the party against whom such evidence is adduced, his assignor
or grantor, shall be competent to testify concerning the same matter.
No person who shall have acted as an agent in the making or con
tanning of a contract with any person who may have died, shall be a
Competent witness, in any suit upon or involving such contract, as to
matters occurring prior to the death of such decedent, on behalf of the
principal to such contract, against the legal representatives or heirs of
the decedent, unless he shall be called by such heirs or legal repre
sentatives. And in such case he shall be a competent witness only as
to matters concerning which he is interrogated by such heirs or rep
resentatives. When, in any case, a person shall be charged with un
lawfully taking or detaining personal property, or having done dam
age thereto, and such person by his pleading shall defend on the
ground that he is executor, administrator, guardian, or heir, and as
such has taken or detains the property, or has done the acts charged,
then no person shall be competent to testify who would not be compe
tent if the person so defending were the complainant; but when the
person complaining can not testify, then the party so defending shall
also be excluded.

SEC. 509. (501.) Husband and Wife—279. When the husband or wife
is a party, and not a competent witness in his or her own behalf, the
other shall also be excluded; except that the husband shall be a com
petent witness in a suit for the seduction of the wife, but she shall not
be competent.
SEC. 510. (502.) Assignor or grautor—Proviso.—280. In all cases in
which executors, administrators, heirs, or devisees are parties, and
one of the parties to the suit shall be incompetent, as hereinbefore pro
vided, to testify against them, then the assignor or grantor of a party
making such assignment or grant voluntarily shall be deemed a party
adverse to the executor or administrator, heir or devisee, as the case
may be: Provided, however, That, in all cases referred to in sections
two hundred and seventy-six (276), two hundred and seventy-seven
(277), two hundred and seventy~eight (278), and two hundred and
seventy-nine (279), of said act—said sections being numbered in the
revised statutes of 1881 four hundred and ninety-eight, four hundred
and ninety-nine, ﬁve hundred, and ﬁve hundred and one—any party
to such suit shall have the right to call and examine any party ad
verse to him as a witness, or the court may, in its discretion, require
any party to a suitor other person to testify, and any abuse of such
discretion shall be renewable (reviewable?) on appeal.

SEC. 511. (503.) When executor or administrator competent—281. In
all actions by an executor or administrator on contracts assigned to
the decedent, when the assignor is alive and a competent witness in
the cause, the executor or administrator and the defendant or defend
ants shall be competent witnesses as to all matters which occurred be
tween the assignor and the defendant or defendants, prior to notice of
such assignment. \
SEC. 512. (504.) Experts—282. A witness who is an expert in any art,
science, trade, profession, or mystery may be compelled to appear and
testify to an opinion, as such expert, in relation to any matter, when
ever such opinion is material evidence, relevant to an issue on trial
before a court or jury, without payment or tender of compensation
other than the per diem and mileage allowed by law to witnesses, un
der the same rules and regulations by which he can be compelled to
appear and testify to his knowledge of facts relevant to the same issue.
SEC. 513. (505.) Religious belief—General moral character.—283. No
want of belief in a Supreme Being or in the Christian religion shall
render a witness incompetent; but the want of such religious belief
may be shown upon the trial. In all questions affecting the credibility
of a witness, his general moral character may be given in evidence.

SEC. 514. (506.) Credibility.—284. Any fact ‘which might, heretofore,
be shown to render a witness incompetent, may be hereafter shown to
affect his credibility.

SEC. 515. (507.) Party prodhcing not to impeach—Exception.—285.
The party producing a witness shall not be allowed to impeach his credit
by evidence of bad character, unless it was indispensable that the
party should produce him, or in case of manifest surprise, when the
party shall have this right; but he may, in all cases, contradict him
by other evidence, and by showing that he has made statements dif
ferent from his present testimony.
SEC. 516. (508.) Impeachment—286. When awitness,whetheraparty
to the record or not, is cross-examined, to lay the foundation of his
impeachment by proof of an act or statement inconsistent with his
testimony, and is asked if he did not do the act or make the statement,
and he answers that he does not recollect having done the act or made
the statement, the party thus laying the foundation for impeachment
shall have the right to introduce evidence of the act or statement in
the same manner as if the witness had answered that he had not done
the act or made the statement.
SEC. 517. (509.) Party may be examined—346. A party to an action
may be examined as a witness concerning any matter stated in the
pleading, at the instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several
adverse parties; and for that purpose may be compelled, in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules of examination as any other
witness, to testify either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon com
mission.
SEC. 518. (510.) Time—Before whom—Notice.—347. The examination,
instead of being had at the trial, may be had at any time before the
trial, at the option of the party claiming it, before any ofﬁcer author
ized to take depositions, on a previous notice to the party to be exam
ined and any other adverse party of at least ﬁve days, unless, for good
. cause shown, the court order otherwise. But the party to be exam
ined before the trial shall not be compelled to attend in any other
county than that of his residence. 

SEC. 519. (511.) Attendance enforced—Filing and reading—348. The
attendance of the party to be examined may be enforced, and the ex
amination shall be taken and ﬁled as a deposition in the cause, and
may be read by the party taking it, at his option; but if not read, the
party causing the examination shall pay the costs thereof.
SEC. 520. (512.) Evidence rebutted.—349. The evidence of the party
thus taken may be rebutted by adverse testimony.

SEC. 521. (513.) Penalty for refusing to attend—350. Any party re
fusing to attend and testify, as above provided, may be punished as for
a contempt; and his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out.

SEC. 522. (514.) To allow judgment.——459. The defendant may, at any
time before the trial, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, to
allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum or property, or to
the effect therein speciﬁed, with costs. If the plaintifff accept the of
fer in court, in the presence of the defendant, or give notice of ac
ceptance in writing within ﬁve days and before the trial, judgment
shall be entered accordingly. If the offer is not accepted, or notice of
acceptance be not given as above directed, the offer is to be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence, or commented on be
fore the jury; and if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judg
ment, the defendant shall recover from the plaintifff the costs occa
sioned subsequent to the time of the offer.
SEC. 523. (515.) T0 confess judgment—460. Before an action for the
recovery of money is brought against any person, he may go into the
court of the county of his residence, or of that in which the person
having the cause of action resides, and offer to confess judgment in
favor of such person for a speciﬁed sum on the cause of action.
Whereupon, if the person, having had notice that the offer would be
made, of its amount, and the time and place of making it, ten days
before the ﬁrst day of any term of the court, does not at such term ac
cept the confession, and should afterward commence an action upon
such cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered to be
confessed, he shall pay all costs of the action; and on the trial thereof,
the offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action
or amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence.

SEC. 524. (516.) Action—When for issue and trial.—367. Every ac
tion shall stand for issue and trial at the ﬁrst term after it is com
menced, when the summons have [has] been served on the defend
ants ten days, or publication has been made for thirty days before the
ﬁrst day of the term: Provided, however, That when a complaint is
ﬁled, whether before or during any term of court, the plaintifff may
ﬁx the day during such term by endorsement thereof upon the com
plaint‘ at the time of ﬁling the same, on which the defendant shall ap
pear, which day, when so ﬁxed, shall be stated in the summons when
issued. And the action shall be docketed in its order; and if sum
mons shall be personally served ten days before such day, or publica
tion shall be made three weeks, thirty days before such day, such ac
tion shall thereupon stand for issue and trial at such term, and the
court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine such action as if
summons had been served or publication made before the ﬁrst day of
the term as herein provided; and if at any time after the ﬁling of the
complaint it shall be found that any party to the action has not been
properly notiﬁed, the plaintifff may ﬁle with the clerk or indorse on
the complaint :1 written request for such notice to be given, naming
therein the day of the pending or subsequent term on which such
party is required to appear to the action, and summons shall be issued
or publication made accordingly, in the proper case as above provided;
and if summons be personally served ten days before such day, or
publication made three weeks successively, thirty days before such
day, such case shall thereupon stand for issue and trial at such term,
and the court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine such ac
tion as if summons had been served or publication made before the
ﬁrst day of the term, as herein provided; and it is also provided, that
the provisions of this act shall apply to all suits and proceedings for
divorce, the same as all other actions.

SEC. 525. (E. S. 17.) Trial on change of venue—When.—1. That all
proceedings and all actions, civil or criminal, taken or removed by
appeal, change of venue, or in any other manner to any circuit, crim
inal or superior court, shall, if the papers or transcript in said pro
ceedings or action are ﬁled in vacation in the ofﬁce of the clerk of said
court, stand for issue and trial at the ﬁrst term of said court there
after. And if the papers or transcript in said proceedings or action
are ﬁled in said court, or the office of the clerk thereof, during term
time of said court, the same shall stand for issue and trial at said term
after the expiration of ten days from the day the same were ﬁled.

SEC. 526. (517.) Trial deﬁned—371. The trial is a judicial examina
tion of the issues, whether of law or of fact, in an action.

SEC. 527. (518.) Order of trial—373. The trial in each action shall be
in the order in which it stands upon the docket, unless the court, for
good cause shown, shall direct otherwise.
SEC. 528. (519.) When the jury shall appear—Order of trials-431
The petit jury shall be summoned to appear on the ﬁrst day designated
for the trial of criminal business, and not before. After the begin
ning of the trial term, the court shall proceed to try the cases in their
regular order, which trials shall not be delayed or interrupted by the
making up of issues. The judge shall, as far as practicable, so
arrange the cases to be tried by the court that the same may be tried
after the discharge of the jury; and such jury shall be immediately
discharged when the issue requiring it shall be disposed of.
SEC. 529. (520.) Jury from regular panel—355. In any civil action
where the parties are entitled to a trial by jury, and either party shall
demand such trial, the sheriff shall call a jury from the regular panel,
except as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 530. (521.) Number Of jurors—356. The number of jurors to try
a civil action shall not exceed twelve, nor be less than three. The
parties may determine the number of jurors by agreement; and in
case of their disagreement, the number shall be twelve.
SEC. 531. (522.) Special jury—432. The court shall have the power,
when the business thereof requires it, to order the empaneling of a
special jury for the trial of any cause.

SEC. 532. (523.) Juryby'agreement.-—357. The parties may agree upon
the jurors to compose a special jury, and notify the court thereof; and
the court shall, thereupon, direct the sheriff to impancl such special
jury, if it can be done without unreasonable delay of the cause. '
SEC. 533. (524.) Struck jury, by consent—358. When both parties de
sire it, the court may direct the sheriff to summon eighteen competent
jurors, or a less number; and the plaintifff ﬁrst, and then the defend
ant, shall strike out one juror in turn, until each has struck off six or
more; and the remaining jurors shall try the cause. Or the parties,
when they consent, upon being furnished with a list of jurors to be
summoned, may exercise the right to strike out any part of the names
before the jurors are summoned, and the remaining jurors only shall
be summoned.
SEC. 534- (525-) Struck jury, upon notice—359. Whenever a struck
jury shall be deemed necessary for the trial of any civil cause in any
circuit or superior court of this state, it shall be lawful for either party
to ﬁle with the clerk a demand for such jury; when it shall be the duty
of such clerk to give four days’ notice to both parties, or to their at
torneys of such time of striking the same. At the time designated
the jury commissioners of said county shall attend at the clerk’s of
ﬁce of said county, and in the presence of the parties, or of such of
them as shall attend for that purpose, shall select from the number of
persons qualiﬁed to serve as jurors within the county forty such per
sons as they shall think most indifferent between the parties, and best
qualiﬁed to try such cause; and then the party requiring such jury,
his agent or attorney, shall ﬁrst strike off one of the names, and then
the opposite party, his agent or attorney, another, and so on alter
nately until each shall have struck out twelve. If either party shall
not attend in person or by attorney, it shall be the duty of such jury
commissioners to strike out for the party not attending. When each
party shall have stricken out twelve names as aforesaid, the clerk shall
make a fair copy of the names of the remaining sixteen persons, and
shall immediately thereafter issue process directing the sheriff of the
county to summon said sixteen persons as jurors _struck for the trial
of such cause, stating the day for which it is set for trial, and such
sheriff shall thereupon summon them accordingly. But in all cases
it shall be necessary to strike such jury at least ﬁve days previous to
the day at which said case is set for trial on the docket, and two days’
service of the process by the sheriff shall be held sufﬁcient. And
upon the trial of the cause the jury so struck shall be called as they
stand upon the panel, and the ﬁrst twelve of them who appear, and
are not challenged for cause, or set aside by the court, shall be the
jury, and shall be sworn to try said issue: Provided, however, That un
less at least one-half of such “struck jury” shall have been sum
moned and shall be in attendance when such cause is called for trial
the case shall be tried by the regular petit jury as other cases are tried.
SEC. 535. (526.) Selector, when clerk interested—360. If the clerk of
such court shall be interested in the cause, or related to either of the
parties, or do not stand indifferent between them, in every such case
the judge entitled to try said cause may, in vacation or term time,
name some judicious and disinterested person to strike the jury, and
to do and perform all things required to be done by such clerk relat
ing to the striking of such jury. ' SEC. 536. (527.) Fees for striking—361. The party requiring such
struck jury shall pay the fees for striking the same, and one dollar
and twenty-ﬁve cents each day for each juror so attending, and shall
not have an allowance therefore in the taxation of costs, unless the
court shall be of opinion that the cause required such special jury; in
which last case, the extraordinary expense shall be taxed in the bill of
costs. If the court, upon motion of either party, shall have ordered a
struck jury, then the costs thereof shall abide the events of the suit.
SEC. 537. (528.) Struck jury—Continuance, if parties consent.—-362.
A struck jury for the trial of the cause at any term of the court may
be continued with the continuance of the cause, and be summoned in
as jurors at a subsequent term, provided both parties consent thereto,
but not otherwise.

SEC. 533. (529.) Challenge for interest.--363. It shall be Sllﬁ‘lclent
cause for challenge to a juror, that he is interested in another suit, be
gun or contemplated, involving the same or a similar matter.
SEC. 539. (530.) Oath of jurors—364. Before the commencement of
the trial an oath must be administered to each juror, that he will
well and truly try the matter in issue between the parties, and a true
verdict give, according to law and evidence.

SEC. 540. (531.) Peremptory challenges.—365. In all cases where the
jury consists of six or more persons, each party shall have three per
emptory challenges. 
SEC. 541. (532.) Calling talesmen.-—366. When the regular panel is
exhausted, or is insuﬁicient from any cause, the sheriff shall call the
bystanders, or ﬁll the jury in such a manner as the court may direct..
SEC. 542. (533. ) Manner of trial.—376. When the jury has been sworn,
the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the court, for
special reasons, otherwise directs:~
First. The party upon whom rests the burden of the issues may
brieﬂy state his case and the evidence by which he expects to sustain
it.
Second. The adverse party may then brieﬂy state his defense and the
evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
Third. The party on whom rests the burden of the issues must ﬁrst
produce his evidence; the adverse party will then produce his evi
dence, which may then be rebutted.
Fourth. When the evidence is concluded, and either party desires
special instructions to be given to the jury, such instructions shall be
reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the party or his attorney
asking the same, and delivered to the court. 
Fifth. When the argument of the cause is concluded, the court
shall give general instructions to the jury, which shall be in writing,
and be numbered and signed by the judge, it required by either party.
Sixth. Where either party asks special instructions to be given to
the jury, the court shall either give each instruction as requested, or
—positively refuse to do so; or, give the instructions with a modiﬁca
tion, in such manner that it shall distinctly appear what instructions
were given, in whole or in part, and, in like manner, those refused,
so that either party may except to the instructions, as asked for, or as
modiﬁed, or to the modiﬁcation. All instructions given by the court
must be signed by the judge, and ﬁled, together with those asked for
by the parties, as a part of the record. The instructions shall not. be
entered at large on the ﬁnal record, unless either party may wish to
remove the cause to a superior court.

SEC. 543. (534.) Special instruction before argument—377. Upon
the trial of any civil cause before a jury in any circuit or superior
court of this state, any party thereto, having an interest in the result
of such trial, may, before the commencement of the argument to the
jury, tender to the court instructions in writing, properly numbered,
to be given to the jury, and require the court to indicate, before the
argument, such as will be given, by writing opposite each the words
“given,” “ given as modiﬁed by the court,” or “ refused.” And if
the court desires, it may hear argument thereon by the respective
counsel, before acting on the instructions tendered. And thereupon,
during the argument to the jury, any instructions so indicated to be
given, may be read to the jury as the law of the case; and the court
shall give the same to the jury as the law when such jury is in
structed by the court. And the court may of its own motion, and
shall upon application of either party, also before the commencement
of the argument, lay before the parties any instructions properly num
bered, which it will give to the jury; and thereupon the same may be
read by any one as the law, while making an argument to the jury:
Provided, however, The court may give to the jury such other instruc
tions, with those already approved, at the close of the argument, as
may be necessary to fully present the law to the jury and secure the
ends of justice. 

SEC. 544. (535.) Exceptions to instructions—378. A party excepting
to the giving of instructions, or the refusal thereof, shall not be re
quired to ﬁle a formal bill of exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to
write on the margin, or at the close of each instruction, “ refused, and
excepted to,” or “ given, and excepted to;” which memorandum shall
be Signed by the judge, and dated.
SEC. 545. (536.) Argument—379. The parties may either submit or
argue the case to t e jury. In the argument, the party having the
burden of the issue shall have the opening and the closing, but shall
disclose in the opening all the points relied on in the cause; and if, in
the closing, he refer to any new point or fact not disclosed in the open
ing, the adverse party shall have the right of replying thereto, which
reply shall close the argument in the case.

SEC. 546. (537.) Brief [101368 by judge—380. It shall be the duty of
the court, when requested by either party, to take brief notes of the
evidence of the parties in the order in which the same is introduced
on the trial.
SEC. 547. (538.) View of property and place by jury—381. When
ever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a
view of real or personal property which is the subject of litigation, or
of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them to
be conducted in a body, under the charge of a sworn ofﬁcer, to the
place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the
court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person,
other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any sub
ject connected with the trial.

SEC. 548. (539.) Deliberation of jury.-—-382. Whenever a case is ﬁnally
submitted to the jury, they may decide in court, or retire for deliber
ation. If they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient
place, under the charge of a sworn ofﬁcer, until they agree upon a ver
dict or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the
court to permit them to separate temporarily and at their meals. The
ofﬁcer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communica
tion to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court; and
he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any per
son the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 549. (540.) Caution by court at each adjournment—383. If the
jury are permitted to separate, either during the trial or after the cause
is submitted to them, they must be admonished by the court that it is
their duty not to converse with each other, or suffer themselves to be
addressed by any other person, on any subject of the trial; and during
the trial, that it is their duty not to form or express among them
selves an opinion thereon, until the cause is ﬁnally submitted to them.

SEC. 550. (541.) Further instructions, when had—384. After the jury
have retired for deliberation, if there is a disagreement between them
as to any part of the testimony, or if ‘they desire to be informed as to
any point of law arising in the case, they may request the officer to
conduct them into court, where the information required shall be given
in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or their attorneys.

SEC. 551. (542.) Jury, when discharged—385. The jury may be dis
charged by the court, on account of the sickness of a juror, or other
accident or calamity requiring the discharge, or by consent of both
parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily ap
pears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 552. (543.) Cause a'gain tried—386. In all cases where the jury
are discharged during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to
them, it may be tried again immediately or at a future time, as the
court may direct.
SEC. 553. (544.) Verdict, written and signed—387. When the jury
have agreed upon their verdict, it must be reduced to writing and
signed by the foreman; and when returned into court the foreman
shall deliver the verdict, and either party may poll the jury. If any
juror dissent from the verdict they shall again be sent out to deliberate.

SEC. 554. (545.) Verdict, general or special.—388. The verdict of a
jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which
they pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor
of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the
jury ﬁnd the facts only, leaving the judgment thereon to the court.

SEC. 555. (546.) Jury may ﬁnd special verdict—389. In all actions,
the jury, unless otherwise directed by the court, may, in their discre—
tion, render a general or special verdict; but the court shall, at the
request of either party, direct them to give a special verdict in writing
upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases, when requested b
either party, shall instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to
ﬁnd specially upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing.
This special ﬁnding is to be recorded with the verdict.

SEC. 556. (547.) Special controls general.—390. When the special
ﬁnding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former
shall control the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly
SEC. 557. (548.) Money verdict—391. In actions for the recovery of
money, the jury must assess the amount of the recovery.
SEC. 558. (549.) Verdict in replevin—392. In actions for the recovery
of speciﬁc personal property, the jury must assess the value of the
property, as also the damages for the taking or detention, whenever,
by their verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery or return of
the property.
SEC. 559. (550.) Jury, how waived—393. The trial by jury may be
waived by the parties, in all actions, in the following manner:
First. By failing to appear at the trial.
Second. By a written consent in person or by attorney, ﬁled ,with
,the clerk.
Third. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.

SEC. 560. (551.) Special ﬁnding by court—394. Upon trials of ques
tions of fact by the court, it shall not be necessary for the court to
state its ﬁnding, except generally for the plaintifff or defendant, unless
one of the parties‘request it, with a view of excepting to the decision
of the court upon the questions of law involved in the trial; in Wthh
case the court shall ﬁrst state the facts in writing, and then the con
clusions of law upon them, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.
And whenever any issue of law or fact is submitted to the court for
trial, and the judge shall take the same under advisement, the judge
shall not, except in case of severe illness of himself or family, hold
the same under advisement for more than sixty days; and, if the court
wherein sud issues arose be not then in session, he shall ﬁle his de
termina' '1 therein, in writing, with the papers in the case.

SEC. 561. (552.) Rules of tria1.—425. The provisions of this code re
specting trials by jury apply, so far as they are applicable, to trials by
the court.
SEC. 562. (553.) Agreed case—Aﬁidavit.—456. Parties shall have the
right in all cases, either with or without process, by agreement to that
effect, to submit any matter of controversy between them to any court
that would otherwise have jurisdiction of such cause, upon an agreed
statement of the facts, to be made out and signed by the parties; but
it must appear by afﬁdavit that the controversy is real and the pro
ceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; where
upon the court shall proceed to try the same, and render judgment as
in other cases.

SEC. 563. (554.) Record—457. The statement of the case, the submis
sion, and the judgment shall constitute the record.
SEC. 564. (555.) Judgment, how enforced—Gosts.—458. The judgment
may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an
action; and in like manner shall be with costs, subject to an appeal,
unless otherwise provided in the submission.
SEC. 565. (556.) What may be referred—409. All or any of the issues
in the action, except in actions for divorce and for the nullification of
marriages, whether those issues be of fact or of law, or both, may be
referred upon the written consent of both parties.
SEC. 566. (557.) Manner of trial, and ﬁnding.—410. The trial by ref
erees is conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court. They
have the same power toI grant adjournments as the court upon such
trial. If required, they must state the facts found and the conclu
sions of law separately, and their decision must be given and may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner.
SEC. 567. (558.) HOW appointed—411. In all cases of reference, the
parties may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not exceeding
three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if the
parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.
SEC. 568. (559.) Causes for.—-420. A new trial may be granted in the
following cases:
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevail:
ing party, or any order of court, or abuse of discretion, by which the
party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.
Fourth. Excessive damages.
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether
too large or too small, where the action is upon a contract or for the
injury or detention of property.
Sixth. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufﬁcient ev
idence, or is contrary to law.
Seventh. Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party apply
ing, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered
and produced at the trial.
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the
mourns party making the application. And the court, in granting new trials,
may allow the same at the costs of the party applying therefore, or on
inliﬂllusm“ the costs abiding the event of the suit, or a portion of the costs, as the
justice and equity of the case may require, taking into consideration
“rim-,ij the causes which may make such new trial necessary.

SEC. 569. (560.) Small damages, n0 ground—421. A new trial shall
not be granted on account of the smallness of the damages in actions
for an injury 'to the person or reputation, nor in any other action
where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.
SEC. 570. (561.) M0ti0n, when made—422. The application for a new
trial may be made at any time during the term at which the verdict or
decision is rendered; and if the verdict or decision be rendered on the
last day of the session of any court, or on the last day of any term,
then, on the ﬁrst day of the next term of such court, whether general,
special, or adjourned.

SEC. 571. (562.) Manner Of applying—423. The application must be
by motion, upon written cause ﬁled at the time of making the motion.
The cause mentioned in the second, third and seventh clauses oi sec~
tion three hundred and ﬁfty-two [§ 420], must be sustained by affidavit
showing their truth.
SEC. 572. (563.) Causes discovered after term.—Limit.—424. Where
causes for new trial are discovered after the term at which the verdict
or decision was rendered, the application may be made by a complaint
ﬁled with the clerk, not later than the second term after the discovery,
on which a summons shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring
the adverse party to appear and answer. The application shall stand
for hearing at the term to which the summons is returned executed,
and shall be summarily decided by the court upon the evidence pro
duced by the parties. But no such application shallrbe made more
than one year after the final judgment was rendered. 

SEC. 573. (564.) On general verdict—440. When a trial by jury has
been had, and a general verdict rendered, the judgment must be in
conformity to the verdict.

SEC. 575. (566.) On pleadings, notwithstanding verdict—442. When,
upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is by law entitled to
judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered by the court,
though a verdict has been found against such' party.

SEC. 576. (567.) Where plaintifff is barred as to part—49. In actions
against'two or more defendants, where the plaintifff is barred by the
provisions of this act as to one or more of the defendants, and is entitled to recover against others for any cause, judgment shall be ren
dered against those liable and for those not liable.

SEC. 577. (568.) Against part of plaintifffs or defendants—438. J udg
ment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintifffs, and
for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may, when the
justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side as between themselves.

SEC. 578. (569.) Against defendants, when joint or several.-439. In
a suit against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion ren
der judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to pro
ceed against the others whenever a several judgment is proper.

SEC. 579. (570.) Defendants all served—Judgment against part only.—
SEC. 436. Though all the defendants have been summoned, judgment may
be rendered against any of them, severally, when the plaintifff would
be entitled to judgments against such defendants if the action had
been against them severally.

SEC. 580. (571.) Set-off—Judgment for excess—443. If a set-off estab
lished at the trial exceed the plaintifff’s claim so established, judgment
shall be rendered for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given there
for.

SEC. 581. (572.) Judgment in replevin.—444. In an action to recover
the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be
for the delivery of the property, or the value thereof in case a delivery
can not be had, and damages for the detention. When the property has
been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claims a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for the return of the
property, or its value in case a return can not be had, and damages
for the taking and withholding of the property.

SEC. 582. (573.) Proof and assessment on default—437. It the taking
of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the assessment of damages is
necessary to enable the court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to
answer, or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may take the
. accounts, hear the proof, and, in actions founded on contract, assess
the damages, or may refer the same to a commissioner, or may direct
the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury.
SEC. 583. (574.) On mortgage or lien ﬁnal.-—448. It shall not be nec»
essary in any action upon a mortgage'or lien to give time for the pay
ment of money, or for doing any other act, but ﬁnal judgment may, in
such cases, be given in the ﬁrst instance.
SEC. 584. ( 575.) In foreclosure—Sale ordered—449. In the foreclos
ure of a mortgage, the sale of the mortgaged property shall in all
cases be ordered.

SEC. 585. (576.) Without relief—When separate—451. Whena judg—
ment is to be executed without relief from appraisement laws, it shall
be so ordered in the judgment. When a plaintifff has included in one
action demands subject to the appraisement laws with demands made
payable without any relief from appraisement laws, the court may ren
der separate judgments upon such demands.
SEC. 586. (577.) Against officers—When without relief or stay—452.
Hereafter all judgments recovered against any sheriff, constable, or
other public ofﬁcer, administrator, executor, or any other person or
corporation, or the sureties of any or either of them, for money col
lected or received in a ﬁduciary capacity; or for a breach of any ofﬁcial
duty; or for money or other article of value held in' trust for another,
shall be. collectible without stay of execution or beneﬁt of the valua
tion or appraisement laws of this state.

SEC. 587. (578.) On bonds—When without relief.—462. Hereafter all
judgments recovered upon bonds, written undertakings, or recogni
zances executed in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, shall be
collectible without relief from valuation or appraisement laws of the
state of Indiana.
SEC. 538. (579.) Entry—What it shall specify—446. The judgment
must be entered on the order-book, and specify clearly the relief
granted or other determination of the action.
SEC. 589. (580.) Satisfaction—447. Satisfaction of a judgment or cred
its thereon may be ordered, for sufﬁcient cause, upon notice and
motion.
SEC. 590. (581.) lndorsement of payment on record, etc.—Effect.-—461
Every indorsement of payment, satisfaction or release, in whole or in
part, upon the record or margin thereof of any judgment or decree, or
upon any execution or order of sale issued thereon, signed by the
judgment plaintifff or his attorney of record or attorney in fact, or by
the assignee of such judgment plaintifff (whose assignment is upon 01‘
annexed to the record of such judgment or decree and attested by the
clerk, when attested by the clerk), upon the record of such judgment
or decree, or by the sheriff upon such execution or order of sale, shall
operate as a satisfaction or release of such judgment or decree, or of
such part thereof so indorsed as paid, satisﬁed or released in favor of
subsequent purchasers 0r lien-holders in good faith; and when such
satisfaction, payment or release is entered by an attorney in fact, such
fact shall be noted on the margin of the record or the execution, as
the case may be; and such power of attorney shall be recorded in the
miscellaneous records of the recorder’s ofﬁce.

SEC. 591. (582.) Judgment docket—Contents.—587. The clerk of every
court of record shall keep a docket, in which he shall enter, within
thirty days after each term of the court, in alphabetical order, a state
ment of each judgment rendered at such term, containing—
First. The names, at length, of all the parties.
Second. The amount of the judgment and costs, and date of its
rendition.
Third. If the judgment be against several persons, the statement
shall be repeated under the name of each defendant, in alphabetical
order.

SEC. 592. .( 583.) Entry Of stay 0f execution—588. Recognizances of
bail for stay of execution shall be entered in such docket immediately
after the taking or return thereof, specifying the judgment and its
amount, the date of the recognizance, and names of the bail.
SEC. 593. (584.) Record—Open to elk—589. Such docket shall be a
record, and open during the usual hours of transacting business to the
exmination of any person desiring it.
SEC. 594. (585.) Neglect of clerk to enter judgment, etc—Liability.—
SEC. 590. Every clerk neglecting to enter any judgment or recognizance,
as herein required, shall be liable to any person injured for the amount
of damages sustained by such neglect, to be recovered in an action
against the clerk alone, or upon his ofﬁcial bond against him and his ‘
sureties.
SEC. 595. (586.) Who may confess judgment—453. Any person in
debted, or against whom a cause of“ action exists, may personally ap
pear in a court of competent jurisdiction, and, with the consent of
the creditor or person having such cause of action, confess judgment
therefore; whereupon, judgment shall be entered accordingly.

SEC. 596. (587.) Debt, how stated—Release of errors—454. The debt
or cause of action shall be brieﬂy stated in a writing to be ﬁled and
copied into the judgment. The confession shall operate as a release
of errors.
SEC. 597. (588.) Confession by attorney—Aﬂidavit—455. Whenever
a confession of judgment is made by power of attorney or otherwiSe,
the party confessing shall, at the time he executes such power of
attorney or confesses judgment, make afﬁdavit that the debt is just
and owing, and that such confession is not made for the purpose of
defrauding his creditors. The affidavit shall be ﬁled with the court.

SEC. 598. (589.) Non-resident to ﬁle c0st-bond.—47 4. Plaintiffs who
are not residents of this state, before commencing any action, shall
. ﬁle in the ofﬁce of the clerk a written undertaking, payable to the de
fendant, with surety to be approved by the clerk, for the payment Of
all costs which may accrue in the action to the proper ofﬁcer or person;
but the suit shall not be dismissed for want thereof, if the plaintifff
will ﬁle, in open court, upon being ordered to do so, such undertaking,
which shall include all previous costs; and the sureties shall be liable
in the ﬁrst instance as parties. 

SEC. 599. (590.) Costs—468. In all civil actions, the party recovering
judgment shall recover costs, except in those cases in which a different
provision is made by law.

SEC. 600. (591.) Recovery under $50—Exception.—469. In actions
for money demands on contract commenced in the circuit or superior
courts, if the plaintifff recover less than ﬁfty dollars, exclusive of costs,
he shall pay costs, unless the judgment has been reduced below ﬁfty
dollars by a set-off 0r counterclaim pleaded and proved by the de
fendant, in which case the party recovering judgment shall recover
costs. When the judgment is reduced below ﬁfty dollars by proof of
payments, the defendant shall recover costs: Provided, That in all
actions for money demands on contract, where one or more defend
ants, necessary toa full determination of such cause, are non-residents
of the county in which such suit is brought, but are residents of the
state of Indiana, and have been duly served with process in such
action, the plaintifff shall recover costs, although he may recover
judgment for less than ﬁfty dollars.

SEC. 601. (592.) Suite for damages solely—Costs—470. In all actions
for damages solely, not arising out of contract, if the plaintifff do not
recover ﬁve dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than dain
ages, except in actions for injuries to character and false imprison
ment, and where the title to real estate comes in question.
SEC. 602. (593.) Relators, etc., liable jointly with parties—Exception.—
SEC. 471. Relators and persons and corporations for whose use an action
is brought, whether such use is shown by the pleadings of the plaintifff
or defendant, shall be liable for costs' jointly with the actual parties to
the action, but when the state is plaintifff the relator only shall be lia
ble, and judgment for costs shall be rendered accordingly, be and the
same is hereby amended to read as follows, to wit: Relators and per
sons and corporations for whose use an action is brought, whether
such use is shown by the pleadings of the plaintifff or defendant, shall
be liable for costs jointly with the actual parties to the action, but
when the state is plaintifff the relator only shall be liable, and judg
ment for costs shall be rendered accordingly, except in case when a
state ofﬁcer or prosecuting attorney, by virtue of his ofﬁce, may be a
relator for the state of Indiana, such relator shall not be liable for
costs.
SEC. 603. (594.) Costs, how apportioned—472. In actions where there
are several plaintifffs or several defendants, the costs shall be appor
tioned according to the judgment rendered; and where there are sev
eral causes of action embraced in the same complaint, or several is
sues, the plaintifff shall recover costs upon the issues determined in his
favor, and the defendant shall recover costs upon the issues deter
mined in his favor.
SEC. 604. (595.) Where suits can be joined—Costs in one only.——473
When the plaintifff shall, at the same court, bring several actions
against the defendant upon demands which might have been joined in
one action, he shall recover costs only in one action, unless it shall
appear to the court that the actions aﬁect different rights or interests,
or other sufﬁcient reasons exist why the several demands ought not to
have been joined in one action.
SEC. 605. (596.) When costs adjud ed before ﬁnal judgment—475.
Whenever in any action an order s all be made for the payment of
any costs at any time before ﬁnal judgment, the court shall, upon mo
tion of any person interested, render judgment for the costs in favor
of the party entitled to receive the same.
SEC. 606. (597.) Costs where lands are attached—477. In all cases
where lands are attached and judgment rendered in favor of the
plaintifff in the circuit court, wherein the sum claimed or the judg
ment rendered shall be less than ﬁfty dollars, the plaintiﬁ shall recovvr
costs: Provided, The attachment against the land is sustained by the
court.
SEC. 607. (598.) Costs of transcript—478. When in any suit pending
in any court in this state it shall be necessary to procure a transcript
of any judgment or proceeding, or exempliﬁcation of any record, as
evidence in such action, the necessary expense of procuring such
transcript or exempliﬁcation shall be taxed with the other costs in the
cause, and recovered as in other cases.
SEC. 663. (599.) Fee-bills.—476. Fee-bills and executions may issue
for the collection of costs in the proper cases against parties to the ac
tion, relators, persons for whose use an action is brought, and sure
ties on undertakings for the payment of costs.

SEC. 609. (600.) Except divorce, when opened—64. Parties against
whom a judgment has been rendered without other notice than the
publication in the newspaper herein required, except in cases of di
vorce, may, at any time within ﬁve years after the rendition of the
judgment, have the same opened“, and be allowed to defend.

SEC. 610. (601.) Notice of application—65. Before any judgment
shall be opened, such party shall give notice to the original complain—
ant, or his heirs, devisees, executors, or administrators, of his inten
tion to make application to have the judgment opened as the court, in
term, or the judge thereof, in vacation, shall require; and shall ﬁle a
full answer to the original complaint, and an afﬁdavit stating that,
during the pendency of the action, he received no actual notice thereof
in time to appear in court and object to the judgment; and shall also
pay all such costs of the action as the court shall direct.
SEC. 611. (602.) Bona ﬁdepnrchasers not attested—66. If any property
which was the subject of, or property sold under, any judgment sought
to be opened, as provided in the last two preceding sections, shall
have passed into the hands of a purchaser in good faith, he shall not
be affected by any proceedings consequent upon the opening of the
judgment.
SEC. 612. (603.) How assigned—463. Judgments and decrees of a
court of record for the recovery of money, and judgments obtained
before a justice of the peace, may be assigned by the plaintifff or com
plainant, and the assignees thereof successively, on or attached to the
entry of such judgment or decree; and the assignment, when attested
by the clerk of the court or such justice of the peace, shall vest the title to such judgment or decree in each assignee thereof successively.

SEC. 613. (604.) Payment to assignor, when valid—464. Payments 0r
satisfaction on such judgment or decree to the assignor shall be valid,
if made before notice of assignment to the judgment debtor, but not
otherwise.
SEC. 614. (605.) Execution, when issued and indorsed.—465. In case
of assignment, execution shall issue in the name of the original plain—
tiff or complainant, but shall be indorsed by the clerk or justice, to be
for the use of the assignee.
SEC. 615. (606.) Assignee may maintain action—466. Any action
which the plaintifff or complainant in such judgment or decree might
have thereon may be maintained in the name of the assignee.

SEC. 616, (607.) Delivery-bond—Suit on judgment—467. Bonds for
the delivery of property levied upon by virtue of such execution shall
be to the judgment plaintifff, for the use of such assignee; and all
suits and proceedings relating to such judgment or decree, or against
any ofﬁcer on his bond for neglect of duty relating thereto, may be
against, or on relation, or for the use of, such assignee, as the case
may require. '
SEC. 617. (608.) Lien upon real estate—Ten years—601. All ﬁnal
judgments in the supreme and circuit courts for the recovery of money
or costs shall be a lien upon real estate and chattels real, liable to ex
ecution in the county where judgment is rendered, for the space of ten
years after the rendition thereof, and no longer, exclusive of the time
during which the party may be restrained from proceeding thereon by
any appeal or injunction, or by the death of the defendant, or by
agreement of the parties entered of record.

SEC. 618. (609.) Lien on bonds to state—602. Judgments on bonds
payable to the stateof Indiana shall bind the real estate of the debtor
from the commencement of the action.
SEC. 619. (610.) Transcripts to another county.—603. It shall be the
duty of the clerk of any court of record of this state, rendering any
judgment, to make out a certiﬁed copy thereof, under the seal of such
court, at the request of any person interested; which copy may be ﬁled
in the ofﬁce of the clerk of any circuit court of this state, and when so
ﬁled shall be recorded and entered in the judgment docket in the same
manner as judgments rendered in any such court.
SEC. 620. (611.) Lien 0i such judgments—604. Such judgment, from
the time of ﬁling the copy aforesaid, shall be a lien upon all the real
estate, including chattels real, of the judgment debtor, situated in
the county where ﬁled, as fully as if such judgment had been ren
dered thereon.
SEC. 621. Transcripts from United States courts—1. That any person
interested may ﬁle, or cause to be ﬁled, in the ofﬁce of the clerk of any
circuit court of this state, a copy of any judgment rendered by the
district or circuit courts of the United States, in and for the districts
of Indiana, certiﬁed by the clerk of, and under the seal of such court
of the United States, and when so ﬁled the same shall be entered in
the order-book and judgment docket in the same manner as judgments
rendered in any such circuit court of the state of Indiana.
SEC. 622. Liam—2. Such judgment, from the time of ﬁling the copy
aforesaid, shall be a lien upon all the real estate, including chattels
real, of the judgment debtor situated in the county where ﬁled, as fully
as if such judgment had been rendered therein.
SEC. 623. Fees 0f clerk—3. The same fees shall be taxed, charged and
received by the clerk of such circuit court for so ﬁling, recording and
entering such copy as are taxed, charged and received by him accord
ing to law, for ﬁling, recording and entering transcripts of judgments,
for like purposes, rendered by the courts of record of this state.

SEC. 624. (612.) Transcript from justice—613. It shall be the duty of
every justice of the peace in this state, when requested by the plaintifff
or his agent, to make out and certify a true and complete transcript of
the proceedings and judgment in any cause upon any docket legally
in his possession. The plaintifff may ﬁle such transcript in the ofﬁce
[of the clerk of any court in this state.
SEC. 625. (613-) Recording—Docketing—Lien.—614. It shall be the
duty of the clerk, forthwith, to record the transcript in the order
book, and docket the judgment in the judgment docket. The judg
ment set forth in the transcript shall be a lien upon the real property
of the defendant within the county, to the same extent as judgments
of the court, from the time of ﬁling the transcript.

SEC. 626. (614.) Execution, hOW obtained—615. Whenever the plain
tiff shall also procure from the justice a certiﬁcate that an execution
has been issued upon the judgment to the proper constable, and by
him returned, indorsed that no goods or chattels could be found suf
ﬁcient to satisfy the judgment or a part thereof, and ﬁle the certiﬁcate
with the clerk, he shall record it in the order-book with the transcript;
and, upon the plaintifff or his agent also ﬁling with the clerk his affi
davit that the judgment is unpaid in whole or in part, stating the
amount due, he shall issue an execution upon the judgment, and in—
dorse the amount to be levied of principal, interest, and costs; which
execution shall be issued, served, and returned in the same manner as
executions issued upon judgments of the court.

SEC. 627. (615.) Review of, by whom—Exception.—665. Any person
who is a party to any judgment, or the heirs, devisees, or personal
representatives of a deceased party, may ﬁle in the court where such
judgment is rendered a complaint for a review of the proceedings and
judgment. Any person under legal disabilities may ﬁle such com
plaint at any time within one year after the disability is removed.
But no complaint shall be ﬁled for a review of a judgment of divorce.
SEC. 628. (616.) For what had—Limit 0f ﬁling—666. The complaint
may be ﬁled for any error of law appearing in the proceedings and
judgment, within one year; or for material new matter, discovered
since the rendition thereof, within three years; or for both causes,
within one year after the rendition of the judgment, and without leave
of court.
SEC. 629. (617.) For new matter—Veriﬁed—Contents.—667. Whei
the complaint for a review is ﬁled for new matter discovered since th
rendition of the judgment, it shall be veriﬁed by the complainant, 8X14
show that the new matter could not have been discovered before judg
ment by reasonable diligence, and that the complaint is ﬁled withou
delay after the discovery.
SEC. 630. (618.) Stay—Bond.—668. At any time after ﬁling the com
plaint, and before the ﬁnal hearing, the court may, upon applicatioi
of the plaintifff, stay all further proceedings on the judgment. Whei
proceedings are stayed, the court shall direct bond and surety to b
given, as in cases of appeal.
SEC. 631, (619.) Notice of ﬁling—Issue.—669. The defendant shall b
notiﬁed of the ﬁling of such complaint, and the parties shall proceei
to form issues of law and fact as in other cases.
SEC. 632. (620.) Judgment—Gosts.—670. Upon the hearing, the com
may reverse or afﬁrm the judgment in whole or in part, or modify th
same, as the justice of the case may require, and award costs accord
ing to the rule prescribed for the awarding of costs in the suprem
court, on appeal.

SEC. 633. (621.) Death of Judgment debtor—Heirs, etc., when to show
cause—724. In case of the death of any judgment debtor, the heirs,
devisees, or legatees of such debtor, or the tenant of real property
owned by him and aﬁected by the judgment, and the personal repre
sentatives of the decedent, may, after the expiration of one year from
the time of granting letters testamentary or of administration upon
the estate of the decedent, be summoned to show cause why the judg
ment should not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor
in their hands respectively.
SEC. 634. (022.) Affidavit by judgment creditor.—725. The judgment
creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall ﬁle an affidavit that the
judgment has not been satisﬁed, to his knowledge, or information
and belief, and shall specify the amount due thereon, and the prop
erty sought to be charged.
SEC. 635. (623.) Service of summons—Issue—Trial—Order.—726. A
summons shall be issued, served, and returned, or publication may be
made, as in other cases; issues shall be formed, and be tried as in an
original suit; and the court shall order the property of the decedent in
the hands of the heirs, devisees, or legatees, or in the hands of the
tenant of real property, to be sold to pay the judgment and costs in
the manner required by the judgment.
SEC. 636. (624.) Death of one joint judgment debtor—Estate liable.—727. When two or more persons shall be jointly liable on a contract
or judgment, and either of them shall die, his estate, executors, and
administrators shall be liable for the failure to perform the contract
and for the payment of the judgment, to the same extent and in the
same manner as if such contract or judgment were joint and several.

SEC. 637. (625.) Exception deﬁned—402. An exception is an objection
taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law.
SEC. 638. (626.) Time of excepting—Bill—Provisa—403. The party
objecting to the decision must except at the time the decision is made;
but time may be given to reduce the exception to writing, but not
beyond the term, unless by special leave of the court. It shall not be
necessary to copy a written instrument or documentary evidence in~
to a bill of exceptions, but it shall be sufﬁcient to refer to such evi
dence, if its appropriate place be designated by the words “here in
sert:” Provided, That if a motion for a new trial shall be ﬁled in a
cause in which such decision, so excepted to, is assigned as a reason
for a new trial, such motion shall carry such decision and exception
forward to the time of ruling on such motion, and time ma be then
given by the court within which to reduce such exception to writing.

SEC. 639. (627.) Form of exception—404. No particular form of ex
ception is required. The objection must be stated with so much of the
evidence as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as
brieﬂy as possible.
SEC. 640. (628. )> Exception on record, how n0ted.—405. Where the de
cision objected to is entered on the record, and the grounds of objection
appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the party causing
it to be noted at the end of the decision that he excepts.

SEC. 641. (629.) Bill, how signed and ﬁled—Entry.—406. When the
record does not otherwise show the decis1on or grounds of objection
thereto, the party objecting must, within such time as may be allowed,
present to the judge a proper bill of exceptions, which, if true, he
shall promptly sign and cause it to be ﬁled in the cause; if not true,
the judge shall correct, sign, and cause it to be ﬁled without delay. When
so ﬁled, it shall be a part of the record; and delay of the judge in sign
ing and ﬁling the same shall not deprive the party objecting of the
beneﬁt thereof. The date of the presentation shall be stated in the
bill of exceptions, and the entry shall show the time granted, if be
yond the term, for presenting the same.

SEC. 642. (630.) Question of law, how reserved—407. Either party
may reserve any question of law decided by the court during the prog
ress of the cause, for the decision of the supreme court. Any question
of law so reserved may be taken to the supreme court upon the bill of
exceptions showing the decision; or, if it arises on demurrer, upon
the pleadings involved. When the question so reserved is shown by
the bill of exceptions, the party excepting shall notify the court that
he intends to take the question of law to the supreme court upon the
bill of exceptions only; and the court shall thereupon cause the bill of
exceptions to be so made that it will distinctly and brieﬂy embrace so
much of the record of the cause only and the statement of the court,
as will enable the supreme court to apprehend the particular question
involved.

SEC. 643. (631.) Time for appeal—Supersedeas.—408. The party ex
cepting may take the reserved question to the supreme court by appeal,
at any time within one year after ﬁnal judgment in the cause, and not
afterward. The appeal in such case shall not stay proceedings upon
the judgment, unless so ordered by the supreme court or some judge
t ereof.

SEC. 644. (632.) Appeal to supreme court——Pr0viso.—628. Appeals
may be taken from the circuit courts and superior courts to the su
preme court, by either party, from all ﬁnal judgments, except in ac
tions originating before a justice of the peace or mayor of a city, where
the amount in controversy, exclusive of interest and costs, does not
exceed ﬁfty dollars: Provided, however, That this exception shall not
apply to prohibit an appeal in cases originating before a justice of the
peace or mayor of a city, involving the validity of an ordinance passed
by an incorporated town or city. The party obtaining judgment shall
not take an appeal after receiving any money paid or collected thereon.

SEC. 645. (633.) Appeal within one year—Exception.—640. Appeals
in all cases hereafter tried must be taken within one year from the
time the judgment is rendered. In all cases heretofore tried they
must be taken within one year from t 9 time this act takes effect; but
the time alIOWed the appellant by the pre-existing law shall not be en
larged. Where the appellant is under legal disabilities at the time the
judgment is rendered, he may have his appeal at any time within one
year after the disability is removed.

SEC. 646. (634.) Part only barred—Proceedings.—-641. The supreme
court, upon being satisﬁed that the statute of limitations has barred a' part only of the appellants, may strike their names from the record,
and proceed to afﬁrm, or reverse, or modify the judgments as to those
appellants only who are before the court.
SEC. 647. (635.) A part may appeal—Notice.—629. A part of several
co-parties may appeal; but in such case, they must serve notice of the
appeal upon all the other co-parties, and ﬁle the proof thereof with
the clerk of the supreme court. Unless they appear and decline to
join, they shall be regarded as having joined, and shall be liable for
their due proportion of the costs. If they decline to join, their names
may be struck out, on motion; and they shall not take an appeal after
ward, nor shall they derive any beneﬁt from the appeal, unless from
the necessity of the case, except persons under legal disabilities.

SEC. 648. (636.) Death of party—Appeal—Notice.—630. In case of the
death of any or all the parties to a judgment before an appeal is taken,
an appeal may be taken by, and notice of an appeal served upon, the
persons in whose favor and against whom the action might have been
revived, if death had occurred before judgment.
SEC. 649. (637.) Death n0 abatement—631. The death of any or all
the parties shall not cause the proceedings to abate; but the names of
the proper persons being substituted, upon consent or upon notice,
the cause may proceed.
SEC. 650. (638.) Appeal during term—Stay—Bond—Transcript.-—632.
When an appeal is taken during the term at which judgment is ren
dered, it shall operate as a stay of all further proceedings on the judg
ment, upon an appeal-bond being ﬁled by the appellant, with such
penalty and surety as the court shall approve, and within such time
as it shall direct, payable to the appellee, with condition that he will
duly prosecute his appeal, and abide by and pay the judgment and
costs which may be rendered or afﬁrmed against him; and if the ap
peal is taken from a judgment for the recovery of real property, or the
possession thereof, by the party against whom the judgment for the
recovery is rendered, then the condition of the bond shall further pro
vide that the appellant shall also pay all damages which may be sus
tained by the appellee for the mane proﬁts, waste, or damage to the
land during the pendency of the appeal; and if from a judgment for
the recovery or return of personal property, or for such property or its
value, then that if he deliver or return the property he will also pay
the reasonable value of its use and any damage it may sustain during
the pendency of an appeal. The transcript shall be ﬁled in the ofﬁce
if) the clerk of the supreme court within sixty days after ﬁling the
ad.

SEC. 651. (639.) Failure to ﬁle record—Execution—Proviso.-—633. In
all cases appealed to the supreme court, where bond shall have been
ﬁled in the court below in term and execution therein stayed, and the
appellants shall fail to ﬁle in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the supreme
court the record of the cause so appealed within the time required by
law, the party in whose favor the judgment may be in the court be
low may have execution thereon, upon the ﬁling with the clerk of the
proper court the certiﬁcate of the clerk of the supreme court showing
that said record was not so ﬁled in proper time: Provided, however,
That nothing in this section shall be so construed as to prevent any
such appellant from ﬁling the transcript, and perfecting an appeal
afterward according to law.
SEC. 652. (640.) Appeal after term—Notice—Filing.-—635. After the
close of the term at which the judgment is rendered, an appeal may
be taken by the service of a notice in writing on the adVerse party 01'
his attorney, and also on the clerk of the court in which the proceed
ings were had, stating the appeal from the judgment or some speciﬁc part thereof; or such appeals may be taken by procuring from the
clerk of the court a transcript of the record and proceeding in the suit,
or so much thereof as is embraced in the appeal, and ﬁling the same
in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the supreme court, who shall indorse
thereon the time of ﬁling, and issue a notice of the appeal to the ap
pellee.

SEC. 653. (641.) Appeal after term—Bond— Supersedeas.—642. An
appeal taken after the close of the term shall not stay execution or
other proceedings in the court below, unless an order to that effect be
granted by the supreme court in term, or any judge thereof in term or
vacation, which shall be indorsed on the transcript. The court or
judge shall, at the time of making the order, direct that the appellant
shall give bond to the appellee, with condition as required when an
appeal is taken during the term at which the judgment is rendered.
SEC. 654. (642.) Bond, how approved—Stay.—643. The appeal-bond
and surety may be approved by the clerk of the supreme court or by
the clerk of the court below. And upon the ﬁling of the bond, execu
tion and all other proceedings on the judgment in the court below
shall he stayed; and if execution has issued, the clerk shall notify the
sheriff of the appeal and order to stay proceedings, and the execution
shall be forthwith returned, and any levy made shall be relinquished.
SEC. 655. (643.) Certiﬁcate of stay to clerk below.—-644. Whenever
an order to stay execution of a judgment is granted, the clerk of the
supreme court shall issue a certiﬁcate thereof to the clerk of the court
below.
SEC. 656. (644.) Length Of stay—645. Such order shall operate until
the determination of the appeal, unless otherwise ordered by the court
or a judge thereof.
SEC. 657. (645.) Executors—Bond not required—646. Executors, ad
ministrators, and guardians may have an appeal and stay of proceed
‘ings in the court below, without giving an appeal-bond.

SEC. 658. (646.) Appeals from interlocutory order.—655. Appeals to
the, supreme court may be taken from an interlocutory order of any air
cuit court or judge thereof, in the following cases:
First. For the payment of money, to compel the execution of any
instrument of writing, or the delivery or assignment of any securities,
evidences of debt, documents, or things in action.
Second. For the delivery of the possession of real property or the
sale thereof.
Third. Granting or dissolving, or overruling motions to dissolve,
an injunction in term, and granting an injunction in vacation.
Fourth. Orders and judgments upon writs of habcas corpus made in
term or vacation.
SEC. 659. (647.) When taken—656. Such appeal may be taken at tn.
term of the court at which the order is made; or, when made in vaca
tion, the appeal may be taken at the time or during the next term.
The appeal shall not be granted until the appellant has ﬁled an appeal
bond, as in other cases of appeal.

SEC. 660. (648.) Length Of stay—657. Such appeal shall not stay pro
ceedings upon the order more than thirty days, unless the supreme
court in term, or some judge thereqf in term or vacation, shall other
wise order.

SEC. 661. (649.) Transcript for appeal.—637. Upon the request of the
appellant, or upon being served with notice as aforesaid, and, in
either case, upon the payment of the proper fee, the clerk shall forth
with make out and deliver to the party, at his request, or transmit to
the clerk of the supreme court, a transcript of the record in the cause,
or so much thereof as the appellant, in writing, directs, certiﬁed and
sealed, to which' shall be appended the written directions of the appel
lant above contemplated, if any.

SEC. 662. (650.) Transcript—Certiﬁcate—When evidence omitted.—
SEC. 638. All proper entries made by the clerk, and all papers pertaining
to a cause, and ﬁled therein (except a summons for the defendant,
where all the persons named in it have appeared to the action, and
summons for witnesses, depositions, and other papers which are
used as mere evidence), are to be deemed parts of the record; but a
transcript of motions, afﬁdavits, and other papers, when they relate to
collateral matters, and.depositions and papers ﬁled as more evidence
shall not be certiﬁed, unless made a part of the record by exception
or order of court, and directed to be certiﬁed by the appellant. Neither
shall the clerk certify any pleading ﬁrst ﬁled, when there is an
amended pleading of the same matter subsequently ﬁled, embracing
all the pleadings ﬁrst ﬁled, and the amendments thereto, but shall cer—
tify such amended pleading only. Every paper and pleading above
excepted may be made part of the record by exceptions or order of the
court, on motion. If the clerk should certify matter not material to
the determination of the appeal, the supreme court may direct the per~
son blamable therefore to pay the costs thereof: Provided, That when
in any case an appeal is prosecuted upon the question of the correct
ness of instructions given or refused, or the modiﬁcations thereof, it
shall not be necessary to set out in the record all the evidence given
in the cause, but it shall be sufﬁcient in the bill of exceptions to set out
the instructions or modiﬁcations excepted to, with a recital of the fact
that the same were applicable to the evidence in the cause.

SEC. 663. (651.) Publication against n0n-resident.—636. Whenever it
shall appear to the supreme court, by satisfactory proof, that the ap
pellee in a cause appealed after the close of the term is not a resident
of this state, and that a notice of the appeal can not be served upon
the attorney of record in the court below, the court may order that no
tice of the pendency of the appeal be given in some newspaper printed
and published in this state, for three weeks successively; after which
the court shall proceed in all respects as if the defendant had been
served with process.
SEC. 664. (652.) When appeal stands for trial.—-639. Every appeal to
the supreme court shall, unless otherwise ordered by the court, he re
garded as submitted for decision at the expiration of thirty days from
the date of service of notice upon the appellee of the taking of the ap
peal, or when such notice is waived and appellee enters a general ,ap
pearance, or the appeal is taken in term time and perfected within the
time limited, within thirty days after the record is ﬁled and notice as
above required is given in the supreme court.
SEC. 665. (653.) Docketing—Order of hearing-4663. The clerk shall
docket all appeals in the order in which the transcripts are ﬁled; and
they shall be heard in the same order, unless the court, for good cause
shown, direct a different mode of hearing.

SEC. 666. (654.) Proceedings each day signed by chief judge—662. The
proceedings of the court for every day of the term shall be drawn up
at.full length by the clerk against the next sitting of the court, and
such corrections being made therein as shall be necessary and right,
they shall be signed by the chief judge of the court.
SEC. 667. (655.) Assignment of errors—Answer.—647. No pleadings
shall be required in the supreme court upon an appeal, but a speciﬁc
assignment of all errors relied upon, to be entered on the transcript in
matters of law only, which shall be assigned on or before the ﬁrst day
of the term at which the cause stands for trial: and the appellee shall
ﬁle his answer thereto.

SEC. 668. (656.) Questions of fact how tried—661. All questions of
fact to be determined in the supreme court shall be tried according to
rules tobe adopted by the court.

SEC. 669. (657.) Dismissal, ei’t'ect of—New appeal.—660. No appeal
shall be dismissed for any informality or defect in the transcript or
appeal-bond, if the appellant shall correct the informality 0r defect
lithin areasonable time. When an appeal has been dismissed for want
i prosecution, the court may reinstate it at the same or the next term,
good cause being shown. When any appeal has been dismissed, an
other appeal may be taken.
SEC. 670. (658.) Defect in form, etc., no ground for reversal—659. No
judgment shall he stayed or reversed, in whole or in part, by the su
preme court, for any defect in form, variance, 0r imperfections con
tained in the record, pleadings, process, entries, returns, or other pro
ceedings therein, which by law might be amended by the court below,
but such defects shall be deemed to be amended in the supreme court;
nor shall any judgment he stayed or reversed, in whole or in part,
where it shall appear to the court that the merits of the cause have
been fairly tried and determined in the court below.

SEC. 671. (659.) One judge interested: others divided—Proceedings.—654. Whenever, on the hearing of an appeal, one of the judges of the
supreme court has been of counsel in the cause, or is otherwise in
competent to participate in the decision, and the remaining judges are
equally divided, the cause shall be continued to the next term; and if,
then, the judges shall be equally divided, the judgment shall be af
ﬁrmed without cests, and in such case, each judge shall give his writ
ten opinion of each point in the case arising upon the record, which
shall be reported among the cases decided by the supreme court.
SEC. 672. (660.) Reversal—Remanding for new trial—Instructions.—649. When the judgment is reversed, in whole or in part, the supreme
court shall remand the cause to the court below, with instructions for
a new trial, when the justice of the case requires it; but if no new
trial is required, with particular instructions relative to the judgment
to be rendered and all modiﬁcations thereof. And whenever any cause
is reversed in the supreme court, in whole or in part, on appeal, and
sent back for such further proceedings as may require a trial, if the
opinion and decision of the supreme court in such cause shall have
been deposited in the office of the clerk of the inferior court ten days
or more before the ﬁrst day of any term of such court, such cause shall
stand for trial at such term; otherwise it shall be continued until the
next term of such court.

SEC. 673. (661.) Judgment of supreme court—Damages.——648. The
supreme court may reverse or afﬁrm the judgment below, in whole or
in part, and remand the cause to the court below, but the court shall
not reverse the proceedings any further than to include the ﬁrst error.
If the court affirm the judgment, damages may be assessed in favor
of the appellee, not exceeding ten per cent. upon the judgment in
money judgments, and in any other cases in the discretion of the
court; and the court shall remand such cause for execution.

SEC. 674. (662.) Notice to clerk below—Petition for rehearing—650.
When any cause is determined in the supreme court, the clerk shall
forthwith notify the clerk of the court below that it is determined, and
whether reversed or afﬁrmed, in whole or in part, or dismissed. At
any time within sixty days after such determination, either party may
ﬁle a petition for a rehearing; if not so ﬁled, the decision and instruc
tions of the supreme court shall be certiﬁed to the court below, unless
otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 675. (663.) Death, no eﬁect after submission—651. If the death
of any or all the parties occur after the submission of a cause, judg
ment shall be rendered as at the term at which the submission was
made, without any change of parties.
SEC. 676. (664.) Costs—652. When the judgment is aﬁirmed in whole,
the appellee shall recover costs; and when the judgment is'reversed in
whole, the appellant shall recover costs in the supreme court and the
court below, to the time of the ﬁrst error for which the judgment is
reversed, which shall be pointed out in the opinion of the supreme
court. In all other cases, costs shall be awarded as the court may
deem right, following, as nearly as possible, the general regulation for
awarding costs.

SEC. 677. (665.) Fee for transcript, etc—653. The fee paid for pro
curing the transcript, the costs of serving the notice of appeal, and
the printer’s fee for publication, are a part of the costs of the supreme _
court.

SEC. 678. (666.) Execution from supreme court—Return.—658. Exe
cutions issued from the supreme court shall be the same as those of
other courts of record, and shall be returnable as in other cases.

SEC. 679. (667.) Money judgmentFExecution when—634. In all cases
appealed to the supreme court, where the judgment below has been
for the recovery of money, and the same shall be fully and uncondi
tionally afﬁrmed in the supreme court, the clerk of the court below
shall be authorized to issue execution on said judgment as soon as
the certiﬁed copy of the opinion and judgment of the supreme court,
so afﬁrming said judgment, shall be ﬁled in his ofﬁce.

SEC. 680. (668.) Order to inferior court for transcript and papers.—664. Any appellate court shall have full power to compel any inferior
court, board, or ofﬁcer exercising judicial functions, or other person,
to certify to such court a full and complete transcript of the records
and proceedings of any such tribunal, board, ofﬁcer, or person, and
the production of any paper, whenever it shall be necessary for the
proper determination of any cause or proceeding pending before the
appellate court. The breach of any order may be punished as a con
tempt.

SEC. 631. (669. ) Reversal—Effect upon title—607. The reversal of any
judgment by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or trans
ferred, or the title thereto afﬁrmed, shall not avoid the sale, transfer,
or title, if the person to be affected thereby shall be, or claim under,
a purchaser in good faith, and not a party to the record or attorney of
any party.
SEC. 682. (670.) Restitution impossible—Remedy of defendant—608.
In every case of a sale, transfer, or conﬁrmation of real estate upon
execution or by judgment, where the defendant can not have restitu-'
\ion of his estate, he shall be entitled to recover of the judgment
plaintifff the_full value of the estate with interest, when the judgment
plaintifff has purchased the estate, or had the same conﬁrmed or trans
ierred to him; and when the land has been sold by the sheriff to any
other person, he may recover the proceeds of the sale, with interest,
deducting the amount applied to the costs of the judgment defendant.
SEC. 683. (671.) Restitution—609. In every other case of a reversal
of any judgment, by virtue of which any real estate has been sold or
transferred, or the title conﬁrmed, the judgment defendant shall have
restitution thereof as follows:
SEC. 684. (672.) Notice of motion for restitution.--610. He may notify
the purchaser or his tenant, or other person in possession, that at the
next term he will move the court which rendered the judgment to
restore to him the possession of the premises. SEC. 685. (673.) Hearing and judgment—611. Upon proof that the
notice has been served ten days, the court may proceed to hear and
determine the issues made by the parties, and render judgment ac
cordingly, or the judgment defendant may recover his real estate by
the ordinary action.

SEC. 686. (674.) Writs 0f.——479. Writs of execution, as now used for
the enforcement of judgments, are modiﬁed in conformity to this act;
and any party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall
hereafter be rendered may, at any time within ten years after the en
try of judgment, proceed to enforce the same as provided in this act.
SEC. 687. (675.) After ten years—Upon leave—480. After the lapse
of ten years from the entry of judgment or issuing of an execution, an
execution can be issued only on leave of court, upon motion, after ten
days’ personal notice to the' adverse party, unless he be absent or non
resident or can not be found, when service of notice may be made by
publication, as in an original action, or in such manner as the court
shall direct. Such leave shall not be given unless it be established
by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment
or some part thereof remains unsatisﬁed and due.

SEC. 688. (676.) Three kinds of.—482. There shall be three kinds of ex
ecutions—one against the property of the judgment debtor, one against
his person, and one for the delivery of the possession of real or per—
sonal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the
same; and executions may be issued to the sheriffs of different counties
at the same time; but the plaintifff shall pay the‘costs upon all execu
tions not necessary to the collection of his judgment.
SEC. 689. (677.) Execution docket—Contents.—591~. The clerk of every
court of record shall keep an execution docket, in which he shall enter
all executions as they are issued by him, specifying, in proper columns,
the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, and the interest
due at the issuing of the execution, and the costs, and prepare an ad
ditional column, in which he shall enter at length the return of the
sheriff; and such docket entries shall be taken and deemed to be a
record.

SEC. 690. (678.) Precipe for execution and fee bill.-—501. No execution
shall, in any case, be issued in any cause, except on the written pre
cipe of a party to such suit, his representatives or assigns, or of his
attorney of record; and no fee bill shall be issued, unless the same
shall be ordered by the person to whom such fees, or a part thereof,
are due, but the clerk shall receive nothing for any fee bill issued for
his own fees.
SEC. 691. (679.) Judgments, how enforced—481. When a judgment
requires the payment of money or delivery of real or personal prop
erty, the same may be enforced in those respects by execution as pro
vided in this act. Where it requires the performance of any other
act, a certiﬁed copy of the judgment may be served upon the party
against whom it is given, or upon the person or oﬁicer who is re
quired thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto
enforced; if he refuse, he may be punished by the court as for con
tempt.
SEC. 692. (680.) N0 execution against body or property, when—483.
N0 execution against the body shall be issued while an execution
against the property remains unreturned, nor shall an execution against
the property be issued while there is an execution against the body
unrcturned.

SEC. 693. (681.) T0 WhOIll issued—484. \Vhen the execution is against
the property or body of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the
sheriff of any county in the state. Where it requires the delivery of
real or personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county
where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
SEC. 694. (682.) Requisites 0f.—-485. The execution must issue in the
name of the state, and be directed to the sheriff of the county, sealed
with the seal, and attested by the clerk of the court. It must intelli
gibly refer to the judgment, stating the court where and the time
when rendered, the names of the parties, the amount, if it be for money,
and the amount actually due thereon; and shall require the sheriff
substantially as follows:
First. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property of the
debtor subject to execution.
Second. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real prop
erty, or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out
of such property. Third. If it be against the body of the judgment debtor, it shall re
quire the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of
the county until he shall pay the judgment, or be discharged accord
ing to law.
Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto; and
may at the same time require the sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages,
or rents and proﬁts recovered by the same judgment out of the prop
erty of the party against whom it was rendered subject to execution,
and the value of the property for which the judgment was recovered
to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof can not be had; and shall,
in that respect, be deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 695. (683.) Time of return—486. The execution shall be return
able within one hundred and eighty days from its date.

SEC. 696. (684.) When may issue on Sunday—490. An execution may
'be issued and executed on Sunday, whenever an afﬁdavit shall be ﬁled
by the plaintifff, or some person in his behalf, stating that he will lose
his judgment, as he has reason to fear and believe, unlessprocess issue
on that day.
SEC. 697. (685.) Indorsemcnt of clerk on such writ.-—491. The clerk
shall indorse on such execution that the defendants are not privileged
from service on Sunday. '
SEC. 698. (686.) Lien on chattels—When ﬁrst levy preferred—487.
When an execution against the property of any person is delivered to
an officer to be executed, the goods and chattels of such person within
the jurisdiction of the ofﬁcer shall be bound from the time of the de
livery; but if there be several executions, whether issued out of a
court ofv record or byn justice of the peace, against the same defend
ant 1n the hands of diﬁferent ofﬁcers, that execution, Without regard to
the time of 1ts delivery,_under whlch the ﬁrst levy is made shall have
the preference, and all. liens created by the prior delivery of any other
execution shall be divested in favor of the executlon ﬁrst levied.

SEC. 699. (687.) Sheriff’s successor to execute writ, when—492. If
the sheriff die or go out of oﬂice before the return of any execution,
his successor, or other ofﬁcer authorized to discharge the duties of the
ofﬁce in such case, shall proceed thereon in the same manner that the
sheriff should have done.
SEC. 700. (688.) Alias execution—545. The clerk, upon the return of
an execution unsatisﬁed, shall issue another execution upon the judg
ment, and indorse thereon the amount of money levied by the former,
if any.
SEC. 701. (689.) To another county—Lien from levy—606. An exe
cution against property issued to another. county shall bind the real
estate of the defendant from the time of the levy.

SEC. 702. (690.) Stay 0f—Time.—493. When judgment has been ren
dered against any person for the recovery of money or sale of prop
erty, he may, by procuring one or more freehold sureties to enter into
a recognizance, acknowledging themselves bail for the defendant for
the payment of the judgment, together with the interest and costs ac
crued and to accrue. have a stay of execution from the time of signing
the judgment, as follows:
First. If the sum for which the judgment was rendered, inclusive
of costs, do not exceed six dollars, for thirty days.
Second. If such sum and costs exceed six and do not exceed twelve
dollars, sixty days.
Third. If such sum and costs exceed twelve and do not exceed
twenty dollars, ninety days.

Fourth. If such sum and costs exceed twenty and do not exceed
forty dollars, one hundred and twenty days.
Fifth. If such sum and costs exceed forty and do not exceed one
hundred dollars, one hundred and ﬁfty days.
Sixth. If such sum and costs exceed one hundred dollars, one hun—
dred and eighty days.

SEC. 703._ ( 691.) Bail, hOW taken—Jts eﬁect.—494. The bail for stay of
execution may be taken and approved by the clerk, and the recogni
zance entered of record at any time before the term of the stay of ex
ecution expires. The undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the
payment of the judgment, interest, and costs that may accrue at or
before the expiration of the term of the stay of execution. The recog
nizauce shall be written immediately following the entry of the judg~
ment, and signed by the bail.
SEC. 704. (692.) Clerk to notify shoriff—Return.——495. When the bail
is entered after execution issued, the clerk shall immediately notify
the sheriff of the stay, and he shall forthwith return the execution,
noting his doings thereon.

SEC. 705. (693.) Clerk’s indorsement on repleviable judgment._496.
When execution issues for want of bail before the term for stay expires,
the clerk shall indorse thereon the date of the judgment, and that the
same is repleviable. 706.
(094.) Stay for residue—497. In such case the defendant
may have a stay of execution for the residue of such term, by puttin
in bail, to be approved by the sheriff, and indorsed thereon, and signed
by the bail.
SEC. 707. (695.) Recognizance, where copied—498. The sheriff, hav
ing taken the bail, shall immediately return the execution, with his
doings thereon, to the clerk's ofﬁce, and the recognizance shall be
copied by the clerk in the execution docket, and shall have the same
force as if taken by the clerk.
SEC. 708. (696.) Property - levied on to be relinquished.— 499. All
property levied on before stay of execution, and all written undertak
ings for the delivery of personal property to the sheriff, shall be
relinquished by the oiiicer, upon bail for the stay of execution being
entered.
SEC. 709. (697.) Bail—Effect of judgment confessed—500. Every re
cognizance of bail, taken as above provided, shall have the effect of a
judgment confessed, from the date thereof, against the person and
property of the bail.

SEC. 710. (698.) Joint execution—502. At the expiration of the stay
it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a joint execution against the
property of all the judgment. debtors and replevin bail; but the sheriﬁ
shall ﬁrst levy upon the property of the judgment defendants, if sufﬁ
cient can be found; if not, he shall then, without delay, levy the exe
cution upon the property of the bail. But no property of the bail
shall be sold while property of the original judgment debtor, subject
to the execution, can be found in the county.

SEC. 711. (699.) When stay not allowed—Return limited—503. N0
stay of execution ,shall be allowed upon any judgment recovered
against any ofﬁcer, person, or corporation, or the sureties of any of
them, for money received in a ﬁduciary capacity or for a breach of
any ofﬁcial duty. The clerk shall issue executions upon such judg
ments forthwith, returnable in ninety days, and indorsed “ not replev
iable,” and it shall be so ordered in the judgment.

SEC. 712. (700.) Sureties may prevent stay—Exception—SM. When
any court shall render judgment against two or more persons, any of
whom are sureties for any other or others in the contract on which the
judgment is founded, there shall be no stay of execution on the judg
ment, if the sureties object at the time of rendering the judgment; and
it shall be so ordered by the court, unless the bail for the stay of exe
cution will undertake specially to pay the judgment in case the amount
thereof can not be levied of the principal defendant.

SEC. 713. (701.) When bail may have execution—505. Any bail for
the stay of execution may file with the clerk an afﬁdavit, stating that
he verily believes he will be liable for the judgment, interest, and
costs thereon unless execution issue immediately; and the clerk shall
thereupon issue execution forthwith, unless other suﬂicient bail be
entered before the clerk or sheriff, as in other cases.
SEC. 714. (702.) Entry of other bail—Its effect..-506. If other suf
ﬁcient bail be entered, it shall have the force of the original bail en—
tered before the ﬁling of the afﬁdavit and shall discharge the original
bail.

SEC. 715. (703.) Exemption—Six hundred dollars—1. An amount of
property not exceeding in Yalue six hundred dollars, owned by any
resident householder, shall not be liable to sale on execution or any
other ﬁnal process from a court, for any debt growing out of or founded
upon a contract, express or implied, after the taking effect of this act.

SEC. 716. (704.) Kind Of property exempt.—2. The property may be
real or 'personal, or both, as the debtor may elect and designate at the
time he claims the exemption.

SEC. 717. (705.) Selection of appraisers—3. For the appraisement of
any property to be exempted under the provisions of this act, two dis
interested householders of the neighborhood shall be chosen, one by
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, and one by the execution debtor;
and these two, in case of disagreement, shall select a third; and in
case either party fails to select an appraiser, the same shall be selected
by the ofﬁcer holding the execution.

SEC. 718. (706.) Schedule and appraisement.—-4. Such appraisers shall
proceed forthwith to make a schedule of the real and personal property
selected by the debtor, describing the real estate by metes and bounds,
and the personal property by separate items, affixing to each the value
they may agree upon; and they, or a majority, shall aﬂix to the
schedule so made, an'aﬂidavit in substance as follows: “We, the
undersigned, swear that, in our opinion, the above is a just valuation
of the property therein described.”
SEC. 719. (707.) Return of oﬁicer—Re-appraisement—Costs.-—5. Such
schedule shall be delivered to the oﬁicer holding the execution or other
process, and shall be by him returned with such execution or other
process, and made a part of such return: Provided, That all second
or subsequent appraisements, under this act, shall be at the cost of the
party or parties asking the re-appraisement, unless the property of the ‘
debtor, at the time of the re-appraisement, is appraised at enough over
and above the legal exemption to meet said costs.
SEC. 720. (708.) Debtor to pay appraiser’s fee—6. Each appraiser,
for his services, shall be allowed the sum of ﬁfty cents, to be paid by
the execution debtor. '
SEC. 721. (709.) Duty of officer, when personalty only is claimed—7.
If the debtor claim as exempt from execution personal property only,
the ofﬁcer holding the execution shall cause the same to be appraised
and set apart to the debtor, and shall proceed to sell such other prop
erty, if any, as may be liable to the execution, according to law.

SEC. 722. (710.) Duty, when claim includes personalty and realty—8.
If the claim of the debtor, as exempt from execution, include both
real and personal property, the ofﬁcer holding the execution shall pro
ceed to have the personal property appraised and set apart to the debtor,
and then to have the real property claimed appraised, and if the amount
of both appraisements exceed six hundred dollars, the debtor may,
within sixty days thereafter, pay the excess or an amount suﬁicient to
satisfy the execution; but if he fail to do so, the ofﬁcer shall proceed
to sell the real property as other real property is sold on execution, ii
the execution authorize the sale of such property. In making the sale,
he shall receive no bid unless it exceed the difference between six hun
dred dollars and the appraisement of the personal property so set apart
to the debtor. If the ofﬁcer sell the real property, he shall pay over
to the debtor the amount of said difference, and of the remainder ap
ply upon the execution enough to satisfy it, and pay the balance, if
any, to the debtor, or to such other party as may be entitled to it.

SEC. 723. ( 711.) Duty, when claim is for realty only—9. If the debtor
claim as exempt from the execution real property only, it shall be ap
praised; and if its appraised value exceed six hundred dollars, it shall
be sold, if there is a bid for more than six hundred dollars. If sold,
the officer shall pay to the debtor six hundred dollars, and the re
mainder of the purchase-money shall be disposed of as provided in
the last preceding section. ,
SEC. 724. (712.) Real property, how divided—10. In all cases in which
real property is claimed as exempt from sale on execution, and said real
property is susceptible of division by metes and bounds without ma
terial injury thereto, it shall be so divided as to exempt the principal
dwelling-house or homestead of the debtor.
SEC. 725. (713.) Debtor must make and deliver a schedule—11. Be
fore a debtor shall receive the beneﬁt of the exemption provided by
this act, he shall make out and deliver to the ofﬁcer holding the ex
ecution a schedule of all his property, as now required by law, in case
an exemption from sale on execution is claimed.

SEC. 726. (714.) Veriﬁed schedule required—1. Before any person'
shall be entitled to the beneﬁt of the provisions of the above recited
act, he shall make out and deliver to the sheriff or other oﬂicer having
the writ, an inventory of all of his or her real estate, within or with
out this state, money on hand or on deposit within or without this
state, rights, credits, and choses in action, and all personal property of
every description whatever belonging to him or in which he had any
interest at the date of the issuing of the writ, and make and subscribe
an affidavit to the same that such inventory contains a full and true
account of all such property as required in this act to be set out in the
, said inventory, had or held by him at the time such writ was issued;
and if any such property has been disposed of by him since the issu
ing of the writ, such affidavit shall show that fact, and how the same
has been disposed of, and what disposition he has made of the pro
ceeds; and until such inventory and afﬁdavit shall be furnished to
such ofﬁcer, he shall not set apart any property to the execution de
fendant as exempt from execution.

SEC. 727. (715.) Wife may act in husband’s absence—12. In any case
when the execution defendant is absent from this state, or shall ab
sent himself from his home, and an attachment or execution shall be
directed against his property, his wife may make out and verify the
schedule of his property, and claim and receive for him the exemption
provided in this act, and claim and exercise all the rights which would
belong to her husband were he present.
SEC. 728. (716.) When husband’s mortgage of realty invalid—13.
No mortgage or sale of any real estate exempted under the provisions
of this act shall be valid if executed by a married man, unless the
mortgage or deed be signed and acknowledged by the wife in due form
of law.
SEC. 729. (717.) No exemptions against mechanics’ liens, eta—14.
The exemption under this act shall not affect any laborer’s or me
chanic's lien, nor lien for the purchase-money of the real property
exempted, nor exempt any property from taxation or from sale for
taxes. ' .
SEC. 730. (718.) Towhat debts actdoes notapply.—15. The exeinptiOn
provided in this act shall not apply to any debt or contract existing
at the time it takes effect, but all householders owing debts growing
out of and founded upon a contract, express or implied, existing at
that time, shall be entitled to claim and recciVe the exemption pro
vided by the act entitled “An act to exempt property from sale in
certain cases,” approved February 17th, 1852, and the amendments
and the acts in addition and supplemental thereto.

SEC. 731. (719.) Levy and Offer to sell.—507. When an execution
against the property of any person is issued to the sheriff, he shall
serve said execution upon the defendant or defendants in said county,
and levy the same, if not paid, upon property, and make at least one
otter to sell property levied upon, Within sixty days after such execu
tion comes to his hands, if property can be found, unless otherwise
directed by the plaintifff or plaintifffs, or his or their agents.

SEC. 732. (720.) Money may be levied OIL—508. Current coin and
lawful money, and such. bank-notes as the plaintifff is willing to re
ceive as money, may be levied upon and returned on execution, with
out sale, as so much money collected.
SEC. 733. (721.) Bills, notes, etc—509. Bills,notes, drafts, and checks,
or other evidences of 'debt, issued by any moneyed corporation or
bank, or by this state or the United States, and circulating as money,
may be levied upon as personal property, and sold on execution.
SEC. 734. (722.) Goods pledged, etc., subject to lien—510. Goods and
chattels pledged, assigned, or mortgaged as security for any debt or
contract may be levied upon, and sold on execution against the per- '
son making the pledge, assignment, or mortgage, subject thereto, and,
the purchaser shall be entitled to the possession, upon complying with 1
the conditions of the pledge, assignment, or mortgage. 
SEC. 735. (723.) Shares of stock—Sheriff’s duties and powers—511..
Shares of stock in any corporatibn or company may be levied upon
and sold in the county where the ofﬁce and books showing the shares;
of stock and stockholders of the corporation or company are kept; and
the sheriff shall transfer the stock, subject to the rights of the corpora-L
tion or company. The sheriff shall have access to the books of any
corporation or company in his county, for the purpose of making the
levy; and if refused access, the court shall enforce the right. The
shares of stock subject to be levied upon shall be bound by the execu
tion from the time of the levy; and when such levy is made, the sher
iff shall leave the notice thereof with the officers of the company, and
such levy shall constitute a lien upon the stock from the time of such
levy.

SEC. 736. (724.) Debt or thing in action, when given up.—512. Any
debt or thing in action, legally or equitably assignable, may be levied
upon, when given up by the defendant, and sold on execution, in the
same manner as other personal property.
SEC. 737. (725.) Assignment thereof by sheriff—Effect—513. The
sheriff making the sale. of any such debt or thing in action shall as
sign and deliver the same to the purchaser, and the assignment shall
have the same effect as if made by the execution defendant at the time
of making the levy thereon, and shall be treated as so made.
SEC. 738. (726.) Pleading and proof in action thereon—514. In any
action in which such assignment is declared upon or stated, it shall
not be necessary to plead or prove any judgment or execution by vir
tue of which the sale was made, nor to prove the execution of the as
signment, unless the same be denied under oath.
SEC. 739. (727.) First levy on property selected by debtor—Proviso.—515. \Vhen any execution shall issue against the real or personal
property of any person, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to levy the
same, ﬁrst upon that part of the property designated by such person.
if there be no reasonable doubt that he is the owner thereof, and it
designated in time to enable the sheriff to levy and sell without an
necessary delay. 

40. (728.) When none designated, levy generaL-me. If no
property be thus designated, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to levy
the execution upon any Property of the debtor which can be found
subject to execution.
SEC. 741' (729') When insufﬁdent, levy general.-—517.. If the property
thus designated be insufficient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff shall
levy the same upon such other property subject to execution as can be
most readily found, sufﬁcient, in addition to the property designated,
to satisfy the execution.
SEC. 742. (730.) Personalty ﬁrst sold—Exception—Debtor’s residence.—518. In all cases where the personal estate of the debtor subject to
execution is insufﬁcient to satisfy the execution, the real estate shall
be exempt from levy and sale until the personal estate is levied upon
and sold, unless the debtor shall direct otherwise; and the principal
messuage, lands, or tenements of the debtor, or upon which he may
reside, shall not be levied upon, unless other property can not be)
found sufﬁcient to satisfy the execution in the hands of the sheriff

SEC. 743. (731.) Further levies and sales—544. If the property levied
on shall not sell for a sum sufﬁcient to satisfy the execution, the sheriff
shall make a further and sufﬁcient levy, if sufﬁcient property can be
found, and proceed as upon the ﬁrst levy, and return his doings thereon.
SEC. 744. (732.) Sale for two-thirds appraised value—Exception.-—519_
No property shall be sold on any execution or order of sale issued out
of any court for less than two—thirds of the appraised cash value
thereof, exclusive of liens and encumbrances, except where otherwise
provided by law.
SEC. 745. (733.) Sheriff to ascertain cash value—520. The sheriff,
immediately upon levying an execution, shall proceed to ascertain the
cash value of the property levied upon.
SEC. 746. (734.) Appraisers—Selection—Duties.——521. For that pur
pose two disinterested householders of the neighborhood where the levy
is made shall be selected as appraisers, one of whom shall be selected
by each of the parties or their agent; or, in the absence of either party
or his agent, or upon the failure or refusal of either party, after three
days’ notice by the sheriff, to make the selection, the sheriff shall pro
ceed to select the appraisers. They shall forthwith proceed to ap
praise the property according to its cash value at the time, deducting
liens and encumbrances; and in case of their disagreement as to the
value, the sheriff shall select a like disinterested appraiser, and, with
his assistance, shall complete the valuation; and the appraisement of
any two of them shall be deemed the cash value.
SEC. 747. (735.) Vacancy—522. If any appraiser shall fail to act or
to complete such valuation, another shall be chosen in his stead, as
above provided.
SEC. 748. (736.) Liens and encumbrances, list of.—-523. It shall not be
the duty of the sheriff or appraisers to ascertain the amount of liens
and encumbrances; but either party may furnish the sheriff with a list
thereof, With the amount and nature of each.
SEC. 749. (737.) Schedule and valuation—524. The sheriff shall fur
nish the appraisers a schedule of the property levied on, with the in
cumbrances made known to him, and they shall proceed to ﬁx and set
down opposite to each tract, lot, or parcel of real estate, and of the
several articles of personal property, the cash value, deducting liens
and encumbrances; which schedule they shall return to the sheriff.

SEC. 750. (738.) Oath of appraisers—525. The appraisers shall take
and subscribe an oath annexed to such appraisement, to the effect
that the property mentioned in the schedule is, to the best of thelr
judgment, worth the sums speciﬁed therein; that the same is the fair
cash value thereof at the time, exclusive of liens and encumbrances;
which oath the sheriff is authorized to administer and attest, when
taken and subscribed by the appraisers.
SEC. 751. (739.) Purchaser’s privilege as to liens—Proviso.—526.
Where any property shall be sold subject to liens and encumbrances,
the purchaser may pay the liens and encumbrances, and hold the
property discharged from all claims of the exetution defendant; or, he
may hold the property subject to be redeemed by the execution dcfondant, his heirs or assigns, by paying to the purchaser, his heirs or
assigns, the purchase-money, With interest. When redeemed, the
purchaser shall have the growing crops, and shall not be accountable
for rents and proﬁts, but he shall account for waste: Provided, That
nothing contained in this section shall deprive a party from the right
to redeem when authorized by statute.
SEC. 752. (740. ) Duty of sheriﬁ as to unsold property.—527. When any
property levied on remains unsold, it shall be the duty of the sheriff,
when he returns the execution, to return the appraisemenl therewith,
stating in his return the failure to sell and the cause of the' failure

SEC. 753. ( 741.) Lien of levy to continue—Limit—New writ—528.
The hen of the levy upon the property shall continue; and the clerk,
when directed by the plaintifff, shall forthwith issue another execution
reciting the return of the former execution, the levy and failure to sell,
and directing the sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property
unsold, if the same be sufﬁcient; if not, then out of any other prop
erty_of the debtor subject to execution; but such lien as to personal"
property shall continue only for thirty days (unless a second execution
be issued thereon) from the time of said return, at which time it shall
be released as to bona ﬁde purchasers for value and as to the levies of ?
wnts on other judgments, and the levy shall, as between the parties,
be deemed yacated; and as to real property, after SIX months, the levy;
of such writ shall be discharged. 

SEC. 754. ( 7 42.) Re-offer—Costs—Re-valuation.—529. Whenever any
property levied upon remains unsold for want of buyers, the plaintifff
may cause the same to be re-offered at any time before the return~day
of the execution, at his costs, as often as he may direct; but in case of
the sale of the property, the costs of such offer and sale shall be taxed
against the defendant. Either party may have a re-valuation of the
property, at his costs, :ﬁtcr any offer to sell.
SEC. 755. (7 43.) Fraud—Sale without appraisement.—530. Property
conveyed by a debtor, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud credit
ors, shall be sold without appraisement.

SEC. 756. (744. ) Delivery-bond.—531. Any personal property taken in
execution may be returned to the execution defendant by the sheriff,
upon the delivery by the defendant to him of a written undertaking,
payable to the execution laintiff, with sufﬁcient surety, to be ap
proved by the sheriff, to the effect that the property shall be delivered
to the sheriff at a time and place named in the undertaking, to be sold
according to law, or for the payment to the sheriff of the appraised
value thereof, or when the same has not been appraised, then of the
fair value of the same.

SEC. 757. (745.) Appraisement, when prerequisite—532. Before the
sheriff shall deliver any part of the property to the defendant, he shall
cause it to be appraised in the manner prescribed by law, when an ap
praiscment thereof is required; and the defendant may sell or dispose
of the property, paying the ofﬁcer the full appraised value thereof.
SEC. 758. (746.) Non-delivery—Duty of sheriff—533. In case of the
non-delivery of the property according to the undertaking, it shall be
the duty of the sheriff to levy upon and sell the same, or any other
property of the defendant, as soon as practicable, at any time before
the return-day of the execution.
SEC. 759. (747.) Return Of forfeiture—534. Upon the forfeiture of the
written undertaking, the ofﬁcer shall forthwith return it, indorsed
“forfeited,” to the clerk’s ofﬁce, for the use of the plaintifff.

SEC. 760. (748.) Action on bond—Damages.—-535. Such undertaking
shall be valid in law, and an‘ action had thereon whenever the con
dition thereof is broken; and on recovery, the value of the property so
taken, with damages not exceeding ten per cent. on the value, shall
be assessed in favor of the plaintifff. Butthe recovery shall not exceed
the amount- due on the execution, and ten per cent. on the principal.
SEC. 761. (749.) Execution without stay—Return in thirty days—536.
On Judgment obtained on such written undertaking, execution shall
issue forthwith, without stay, returnable in thirty days; and the sheriff
shall not return any property to the execution defendant levied on
thereby, except upon payment of the judgment.
SEC. 762. (750.) Notice of sale of personalty.—542. Previous notice
of the time and place of the sale of any personal property on execu
tion shall be given for ten days successively, by posting up written
notices thereof in at least three of the most public places in the town
ship where the sale is to be made.

SEC. 763. (751.) Personalty, hOW SOld.-—-543. Personal property shall
not be sold unless the same shall be present and subject to the view
of those attending the sale; and it shall be sold at public auction, in
such lots and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest price.

SEC. 764. (752.) Real estate liable to judgment, eta—600. The follow
ing real estate shall be liable to all judgments and attachments, and
to be sold on execution against the debtor owning the same or for
whose use the same is holden, viz.:
First. All lands of the judgment debtor, whether in possession, re
mainder, or reversion.
Second. Lands fraudulently conveyed with intent to delay or de
fraud creditors.
Third. All rights of redeeming mortgaged lands; also, all lands
held by virtue of any land-ofﬁce certiﬁcate.
Fourth. Lands, or any estate or interest therein, holden by any one
in trust for or to the use of another.
Fifth. All chattels real of the judgment debtor.

SEC. 765. (753.) Rents and proﬁts ﬁrst offered—537. The estate or
interest of the judgment debtor in any real estate shall not be sold on
execution until the rents and proﬁts thereof, for a term not exceeding
seven years, shall have been ﬁrst offered for sale at public auction;
but if the same shall not sell for a sum sufﬁcient to satisfy the execu—
tion, then the estate or interest of the judgment debtor shall be sold
by virtue of the execution. 

SEC. 766. (754.) How valued—538. Rents and proﬁts may be sold as
other property, the appraisers setting down the value of each year
separately.

SEC. 767. ( 755.) Manner of sale—Lease by sheriﬁ.—539. So many
years, not exceeding such term of seven, shall be sold as will satisfy
the execution, and no more; and the sheriff shall execute a lease to the
purchaser for the term sold.

SEC. 768. (756.) Real estate, how sold—540. Real estate, including
chattels real, taken by virtue of any execution, shall be sold at public
auction at the door of the court-house of the county in which the same
is situated; and if the estate shall consist of several lots, tracts and
parcels, each shall be offered separately; and no more of any real es—
tate shall be offered for sale than shall be necessary to satisfy the ex
ecution, unless the same is not susceptible of division; except that
when real estate which is not susceptible of division is ordered to be
sold on any decree or judgment, and the same is traversed by the line
between two counties, it may be advertised and sold in either county.

SEC. 769. (757.) Notice of sale of realty—541. The time and place of
making sale of real estate on execution shall be advertised by the
sheriff for at least twenty days successively next before the day of sale,
by posting up written or printed notices thereof in three public places
in the township in which the real estate is situated, and a like adver
tisement at the door of the court-house of the county, and also by ad
vertising the same for three weeks successively in a newspaper of gen
eral circulation, printed in the English language, and published in
the county where the real estate is situate: Provided, That if the sheriff
shall not be able to procure the publication of the notice in a news
paper of general circulation, published within his county, it shall be
lawful for him to dispense with the publication of the notice, and the
land may be sold without such publication, and the sheriff shall, in
his return of the writ, state his inability to procure the publication,
and such return shall have the same effect in evidence as the ofﬁcial
returns of sheriffs in other cases.

SEC. 770. (758.) Damages against sheriff for breach of duty—548. A
sheriff who shall sell any real estate without giving the previous n0
tice herein directed, or shall sell the same otherwise than in the man
ner herein prescribed, shall forfeit and pay to the party injured not
less than ten nor more than two hundred dollars, in addition to such
other damages as the party may have sustained, to be recovered from
the sheriff, or from him and his sureties, in an action on his ofﬁcial
bond. 

SEC. 771. (759.) Purchase by sheriff void—549. If any sheriff or his
deputy, making sale of property on execution, shall, directly or indi
rectly, purchase the same, the sale shall be void.
SEC. 772. (760.) Bidder not paying—Liability.-550. Whenever the
purchaser of any property sold on execution shall fail or refuse to pay
the purchase-money, he shall be liable, on motion to be made by the
sheriff or the execution plaintifff or defendant, in the proper court, ﬁve
days’ notice being given, to a judgment for the amount of the pur
chase-money, and damages not exceeding ten per cent. and interest,
with costs; and no stay of execution shall be allowed upon the judg
ment.

SEC. 773. (761.) Resale—Liability of ﬁrst hidden—551. Or the sheriff
may re-expose and sell the property, on the same or any subsequent
day, according to law; and if the amount'bid at the second sale shall
not equal the amount bid at the ﬁrst sale and the costs of the second
sale, the ﬁrst purchaser shall be liable for the deﬁciency, and damages
thereon not exceeding ten per cent. and interest and costs, to be re
covered by a like notice and motion as provided in the last section. In
case he sells on a subsequent day, he shall re-advertise as in other
cases .
SEC. 774. (762.) Excess t0 demon—553. When property shall be sold
on execution for more than will satisfy the eXecutionnincluding inter
est and costs, the sheriﬁt shall pay the overplus to the execution debtor
of whom it was levied, or to his assigns, unless he be notiﬁed of the
existence of liens to the payment of which it ought to be applied; and
in that event he shall return the money, to be disposed of as the court
shall direct.
SEC. 775. (763.) Deed of shcrii'f.—546. Upon the sale of real estate by
virtue of an execution, and the payment of the purchase-money, the
sheriff making the sale, or, in case of his death or going out of ofﬁce,
his successor, or any oﬂicer authorized to discharge the duties of the
oﬁice, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a deed of conveyance
for the premises, which shall be valid and effectual to convey all the
right, title, and' interest of the execution debtor therein to the pur
chaser, except any right of redemption, as provided by law.

SEC. 776. (7 64.) Deed to heirs or devisees.-—-547. In case the purchaser
of any real estate upon execution having paid the purchase-money
therefore shall die before a deed of conveyance shall have been exe
cuted to him, the sheriff shall convey such real estate to the heirs or
devisecs of the deceased person.
SEC. 777. ( 765.) Purchaser subrogated, when—863. If, upon the sale
of property, real or personal, the title of the purchaser is invalid as to
all or any part of such property, by reason of any defect in the pro
ceedings or want of title, the purchaser may be subrogated to the
rights of the creditor against the debtor, to the extent of the money
paid and applied to the debtor’s beneﬁt; and where the judgment is
entered satisﬁed in whole or in part by reason of such sale, such pur
chaser upon notice to the parties to the proceeding, and upon motion,
may have such satisfaction of the judgment vacated in whole or in
part. Such purchaser, when the proceedings are defective, or the de
scription of the property sold is imperfect, shall also have a lien to the
same extent on the property sold as against all persons except bona ﬁde
purchasers without notice; but this section shall not be construed to
require the creditor to refund the purchase-money by reason of the
invalidity of any such sale.

SEC. 778. (766.) Certiﬁcate of purchase—Contents—Duplicate—Re
Cord—ASSignlllentr—l. Whenever any real estate or interest there
in shall be sold by the sheriff on execution 0r decretal order, he shall
issue to the purchaser (or, if the real estate he Sold in parcels, to dif
ferent purchasers, to each purchaser) a certiﬁcate of purchase. Such
certiﬁcate shall show the court in which the judgment or decree was
rendered, the parties thereto and date thereof, the dates of the execu
tion and sale, the name of the owner and purchaser, and price paid;
and shall contain a particular description of the premises and the
estate therein sold, whether in fee, for life, or for years, and shall
state the time when the purchaser will be entitled to a conveyance of
the property. The sheriff making such sale shall prepare and sign a
duplicate of such certiﬁcate of purchase, and forthwith deliver it to
the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which such real estate
is situate. Such clerk shall immediately record the certiﬁcate in the
“Lis Pendens Record ” kept in his ofﬁce. The certiﬁcate shall be
assignable by indorsement, and shall entitle the purchaser, his heirs, de
visees, or assigns, to a conveyance of the estate in said real property
bought by such purchaser, at the expiration of one year from the date
of his purchase, unless the same shall have been previously redeemed
as hereinafter provided. Any assignment of such certiﬁcate, duly
acknowledged as in case of deeds, shall, together with the acknowl
ment, be recorded by the clerk in the “ Lis Pendens Record ” at the
request of the assignee, and on the payment or tender of the fees al
lowed therefore.

SEC. 779. (767.) Owner entitled to possession for one yeah—2. The
owner of the real estate or interest therein, sold as aforesaid, shall be
entitled to the possession of the same for one year from the date of
such sale.

SEC. 780. (768.) Manner of redemption by owner—“Lis Pendens ” 911'
try-3. The real estate or interest therein sold as aforesaid, or any part thereof separately sold, may be redeemed at any time within one
year from the date of such sale, by the owner thereof, or by his execu
tor or administrator under the direction of the court appointing him,
or the judge thereof in vacation, or by his heirs or devisees, or by any
one holding either the legal or equitable title, by paying to the clerk
of the court in whose ofﬁce such certiﬁcate of purchase is required to
be recorded, for the use of the purchaser, his executors, administra
tors, or assigns, the amount of his purchase-money, and interest at
the rate of eight per cent. per annum thereon from the date of his pur
chase; or if the premises shall have been previously redeemed by any
person having a lien thereon, as hereinafter provided, then by- paying
to such clerk, for the use of the-last redemptioner, the amount paid
by him for the redemption, with interest at the rate of eight per cent.
per annum thereon and his cost of redemption. If the real estate has
been sold in separate parcels by the sheriff, such owner or other per
son may redeem any separate parcel or' parcels sold in one body, by
paying to such clerk, for the use of such purchaser, the amount paid
by him for such parcel or parcels, interest, and costs thereon us afore
said; or if the real estate has been redeemed, in whole or in part, by
a lienor as aforesaid, then by paying to the clerk, for the use of the
last redemptioner, his redemption money, with interest and costs as
aforesaid. Immediately upon such redemption being made, the clerk
shall make an entry in the “Lis Pendens Record,” showing the date
and amount of the redemption, by whom redeemed, the character in .
which he redeemed, as owner or otherwise, the particular parcel or
parcels redeemed, and the judgment and execution under which the
sheriff’s sale was made. If the execution upon which such sale was
made issued from the court of a county other than that in which the
real estate is situate, the clerk to whom such redemption money is
paid shall make out, and deliver to the person redeeming, a certiﬁed
copy of the entry aforesaid, who shall cause the same to be recorded
by the clerk of the court from which such execution issued, who shall
record the same in the “ Lis Pendens Record ” kept in his ofﬁce. If
any person other than the party owning the real estateat the time of
the sale apply to the clerk to redeem, he shall ﬁle with the clerk an atti
davit, showing the facts entitling him to redeem. If his right to redeem
is based upon any record in the ofﬁce of the clerk of any court in the
county or of the recorder of the county in which the real estate is sit
uate, it shall be sufﬁcient to state in such affidavit the particular roc
crd, volume, and page where such record may be found. If such
right is based upon some record kept in an ofﬁce without such county,
he shall ﬁle, with his affidavit, a duly certiﬁed copy of such record.
The clerk shall note the date of ﬁling such aliidavit and copy, prop
erly indorsed thereon, and preserve the same as part of the record of
his ofﬁce.

SEC. 781. (769.) Undivided interest, how redeemed—Lien.-4. Any
person having an undivided interest in the property sold may redeem
such property, or any parcel or parcels thereof sold in one body as
provided in the foregoing section. And if he so redeem, he shall have
a lien on the several shares of the other owners for their respective
shares of redemption-money, with interest at the rate of eight percent.
per annum thereon, and his costs of redemption; which lien shall be
superior to all lions on the real estate so redeemed, junior to the lieu
of the judgment under which the sale was made, and may be enforced
against the other part owners and junior encumbrancers by appropriate
legal proceedings.

SEC. 782. (770.) Redemption by. owner vacates sale—Resale, when not
allowed—5. Whenever any real estate, interest therein, parcel there
of, sold as aforesaid, shall be redeemed by the owner or any part
owner, or persons claiming under them, as above provided, the sale
thereof by the sheriff shall be wholly vacated as to the real estate, in
terest therein or part thereof redeemed, and the real estate subject to
sale on execution, as if such sale had not been made, saving to a part
owner redeeming his lien as aforesaid. But whenever real estate or
an interest therein has been sold by the sheriff as aforesaid, no re-sale
thereof shall be had upon execution 0r decretal order issued upon any
judgment or decree, junior in lieu to that upon which the sale was
made, within one year from the date of such sale, unless the same
shall have been previously redeemed by the owner or part owner, or
some one claiming under either, as above provided.

SEC. 783. (771.) Owner failing, judgment creditor may redeem—6. In
the absence of a redemption as above provided, by any owner, part
owner, or person claiming under either, the real estate sold, or any
parcel or parcels thereof sold in one body, may be redeemed at any
time within one year from the date of sale, by any judgment creditor,
his executors, administrators, or assigns holding a judgment or decree
against the defendant whose title or interest shall have been sold,‘
which, at the time he or they offer to redeem, shall be a lien upon
such title or interest, and which shall be junior to the judgment under
which the property was sold. Such redemption may be made by any
person entitled thereto, without regard to the order of priorities of
liens; and successive redemptions may be made by the several persons
entitled to redeem, in the manner hereinafter-provided.

SEC. 784. (772.) Manner of redemption by judgment creditor—Succes
Slve raiemptions.-7. Any judgment creditor authorized by the pre
ceding section to redeem, who shall desire to redeem from the
purchaser at such sale, shall ﬁrst ﬁle with the clerk of the court in
whose office the certiﬁcate of purchase is required to be recorded, a
statement, duly veriﬁed by his affidavit, or the affidavit of his agent
or attorney, showing the court in which his judgment was rendered,
the parties thereto, amount and date thereof, and amount due and
unpaid thereon, and, if less than the whole, the parcel or parcels
thereof which he desires to redeem, and the sale from which he desires
to redeem. He shall thereupon pay to such clerk, for the use of such
purchaser, his executor, administrator, or assigns, the amount paid
by such purchaser for the real estate or portion thereof sought to be
redeemed, as shown by the record of the certiﬁcate of purchase in the
“ Lis Pendens Record ” in the ofﬁce of said clerk, and interest at the
rate of eight per cent. per annum thereon from the date of his pur
chase. Upon receipt of the redemption-money and interest, the clerk
shall make out and sign a certiﬁcate, showing the date and amount
of the redemption, the land or part thereof redeemed, the judgment in
right of which the redemption was made, and the execution under
which the sale was made; and, after recording such statement, afﬁ
davit, and certiﬁcate in the “ Lis Pendens Record,” shall deliver such
certiﬁcate to the redemptioner. When such redemption has been
made, any other judgment creditor, entitled and wishing to redeem.
may do so by ﬁling with said clerk a statement and affidavit similar
to those above provided for, and containing, in addition, the name of
the preceding redemptioner from whom he wishes to redeem, and the
particular parcels he wishes to redeem. He shall thereupon pay to
such clerk, for the use of the last preceding redemptioner, if the lieu
of the latter be junior to that of the party now redeeming, his redemp
tion-money and interest at the rate of eight per cent. per annum thereon
and his costs of redemption; or if his lien be senior to that of the
party seeking to redeem, he shall pay to the clerk, for the use afore
said, the judgment of the last redemptioner on account of which his
redemption was made and interest thereon, and his costs of suit in ad
dition to the amounts aforesaid; and thereupon such clerk shall issue
to him a certiﬁcate similar to the one above providedfor, and record
the statement, afﬁdavit, and certiﬁcate in the “Lis Pendens Record "
aforesaid. Subsequent redemptions may be made by other judgment
creditors entitled to redeem, substantially in the manner and upon the
terms above provided; and when the redemption of any parcel is made
from a prior redemption, the amount to be paid by the redemptioner
shall be in the same proportion as provided in section three above.
When any person claims the right, as the executor, administrator, or
assignee of a judgment plaintifff, to redeem, he shall ﬁle a veriﬁed
statement of the facts, showing his right to redeem; and if his right
to redeem is based upon records other than those in the ofﬁce of the
clerk where such redemption is made, he shall ﬁle certiﬁed copies of
such records with his statement; all of which shall be properly in
dorsed and ﬁled by the clerk.

SEC. 785. (773.) Venditioni exponas by last redemptioner—Proceed
ings 0n sale—8. If, during the year hereinbefore allowed for re
demption, the real estate, or interest therein, sold by the sheriff, 01‘
any parcel or parcels thereof sold separately, shall be redeemed by any
judgment creditor, as aforesaid, and remain unredeemed by the owner
or part owner, or by any person claiming under them, at the explfﬂ'
tion of such year, thelast redemptioner shall be, immediately thereaf
ter, entitled to sue out an execution, in the nature of a vendilioni cr
ponas, upon his judgment, by virtue of which he made his redeml"
tion. Such execution shall recite the judgment upon which the
original sale was made, naming the court wherein rendered, the parties
thereto, the date and amount thereof, the dates of the execution and
sale, and name of the owner, the price paid by the purchaser 01“ Pur'
chasers for the real estate, it sold in one body, or for each parcel there
of, if sold in parcels, or interest therein redeemed by said redemptioner,
the amount paid by such rcdemptioner in redemption thereof, date of
payment, and costs of redemption, and the judgment of said redemp
tioner, under which his redemption was made, and amount due there
on: which execution shall be issued to the sheriff 0f the county in
which such real estate is situate, commanding him to sell the real
estate, interest therein, or parcels thereof, redeemed by said redemp
tioner, to the highest bidder; and, after paying the costs of sale, and
paying to such redemptioner his redemption-money, and interest
thereon at the rate of eight per cent. per annum, and his costs of re
demption, and the amount of principal, interest, and costs due on his
judgment, pay the residue into the office of the clerk issuing such ex—
ecution. Such real estate shall be sold upon like notice as in other
cases, but without offerin the rents and proﬁts, and without regard
to appraisement laws; and if redeemed in parcels, shall be offered in
like parcels; and the redemptioner suing out such execution shall be
deemed the bidder for the amount paid by him in redemption thereof,
and interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent. per annum, his costs
of redemption, and the costs of sale; and, if no one bid more, he shall
be deemed the purchaser for that amount, and the sheriff shall, imme
diately upon the perfecting of such sale, execute to the purchaser a
conveyance of the premises, which shall convey to the purchaser all
the title and interest of the owner sold under the original execution.
If such sale should fail to satisfy the execution in full, the residue
may be levied and collected of any other property of the defendant
thereto, as in other cases. If execution upon the judgment of the last
redeinptioner he stayed at the expiration of the year aforesaid, or there
beinstallments on his judgment or decree, not then due, he shall,
nevertheless, be entitled to execution, as aforesaid, for the amount due
him on account of his redemption, which shall be without prejudice to
his right to sue out further ﬁnal process on his judgment or decree;
and any surplus remaining, after satisfying the costs of sale and
amount due him on account of redemption, shall be paid to the clerk,
for distribution, as hereinafter provided. Such sale shall discharge
the lien 0f the judgment on which the original sale was made, and the
liens of all intervening judgments and decrees; and if any surplus re
main after satisfying the execution upon the last sale, it shall..be dis
tributed by the court from whence said execution issued, among the
judgment creditors whose liens are junior to that under which the
original sale was made, according to their original priorities and
equities. If the judgment on which such execution issues shall have
been rendered in a court other than that in the clerk’s ofﬁce of which
the statement, afﬁdavit, and certiﬁcate of such last rcdemptioner are
required to be ﬁled, he shall, before the issuing of such execution,
procure duly certiﬁed copies of such statement, afﬁdavit, and certiﬁ
cate, and cause them to be ﬁled and recorded in the “ Lis Pendens
Record,” kept in the ofﬁce of the clerk issuing the execution; and said
writ shall contain the recitals and mandate hereinbefore required.

SEC. 786. (774.) Manner of redemption by lien-holder whose lien is re
corded—9. Any person having a lien, otherwise than by judgment,
upon the real estate, or any parcel or parcels‘thereof sold in one body,
may, at any time within one year from said sale, and after he shall
have had his lien duly recorded where, by law, the recording thereof
is provided for, redeem the same from the purchaser at said sale, or
from any prior redemptioner, and redemption thereof may be made
from him upon the same terms and conditions as hereinbefore re
quired in cases of redemption by judgment creditors; and if, at the
expiration of one year from the sale on execution, no one shall have
redeemed from him, and his lien remains unforeclosed, he shall re
tain a lien on the real estate so redeemed by him, as of the date of the
judgment on which said sale was made, and may enforce the same in
the suit to foreclose or enforce his lien, or by an independent action;
and any sale of said real estate in pursuance thereof shall be absolute,
and the purchaser immediately entitled to a conveyance, having the
same effect as if his lien, at the time he redeemed, had been in judg
ment.

SEC. 787. ( 75.) All redemption entries to be indexed by clerk—10
All entries in relation to the sale and redemption of real estate, as
provided in this act, in the “ Lis Pendens Record,” shall be indexed
therein by the clerk in the names of the judgment plaintifffs upon
whose execution the real estate was sold, against the defendant own
ing the same, and also in the name of said defendant at the suit of
said plaintifffs.
SEC. 788. (776.) Pay of sheriff and other officers—11. The officers
performing the services herein required shall charge and receive the
like compensation as for similar services in other cases; but the sher
iff, or other ofﬁcer, making the second or subsequent sale shall be entitled td a commission, only, on the excess of the redemption-money
SEC. 789, (777.) Purchaser may recover for waste and injury to prem
ises.—1'2. The person receiving a conveyance from the sheriff, pur
suant to the provisions of this act, shall be entitled to recover for any
waste or injury to the premises conveyed, committedafter the original
sale on execution. SEC. 790. (778.) Act not applicable to former sales—Existing liens“
13. The provisions of this act shall not apply to any sale on execution
or decretal order made before the taking effect of this act; but all liens
and rights of redemption and re-sale, existing at the passage of this
act and growing out of any such sale, may be enforced in like manncl‘
as if this act had not been passed, and in accordance with the statute
in force when such sale was made. But all sales made after the pass
age of this act, and all redemptions therefrom, shall be governed by
the provisions of this act.

SEC. 791. (779.) Receipt of sheriff—488. The sheriff receiving an
execution shall indorse thereon the year, month, day and hour when '
he received it.

SEC. 792. (780.) Property of principal to be ﬁrst exhausted—489. If
it appear upon the face of an execution, or by the indorsement of the
clerk, that of those against whom it issued any one is surety for an
other, the property of the principal shall be first sold, unless the
surety shall direct otherwise.

SEC. 793. (781.) Return by mail—Money excepted—552. When any
executionvshall be issued to any county other than the one in which
the judgment is rendered, return may be made by mail; but money
can not be thus sent, except by the direction of the party entitled
thereto or his attorney.
SEC. 794. (7821) Sheriff to pay at once—554. When the sheriff has
collected any money on execution, he shall pay over the some at the
earliest opportunity, unless injoined.
SEC. 795. (783.) ‘Neglect to levy—Liability of sheriff—555. If any
sheriff shall neglect or refuse to levy upon or sell any property justly
liable to execution when the same might have been done, he shall be
anierced to the value of such property, not to exceed the amount neces—
sary to satisfy the execution. 

SEC. 796. (784.) Neglect to return—Liability of sheriff—556. If any
sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return any execution as required by
flaw, or shall make a false return thereon, he shall be amerced in such
-f amount as he might and should have levied by virtue of the execu~
:tion.
SEC. 797. (785.) Neglect to pay over—Liability of sheriﬁ.—557. If
any sheriff shall neglect or refuse, on demand, to pay over any money
-collected on execution to the execution creditor, his agent or attorney,
or to the execution debtor, when he is entitled thereto, he shall be
amerced to the amount thus withheld.
SEC. 793. (786.) Further liability of sheriff—558. In all cases speci
ﬁed in the last three sections, the plaintifff shall, in addition to the
amercement, recover of the ofﬁcer legal interest and damages, not ex
ceeding ten per cent. on the principal sum recovered.
SEC. 799. (787.) Proceedings against delinquent sheriﬁ.—559. Such
recovery may be had by motion against the ofﬁcer, in the proper court,
ten days’ notice thereof being given, or by action on the bond of the
sheriff. The proceedings in this section contemplated may be com
menced immediately upon the default of the sheriﬁ, either before or
after the return day of the execution. '
SEC. 800. (788.) Return of execution—560. Every execution shall be
returned forthwith, upon being satisﬁed by the collection of the money;
also, upon order of the plaintifff or his agent indorsed thereon. When
the return day of an execution falls on Sunday, it shall be returned on
the following Monday.
SEC. 801. (789.) When plaintifff shall give refundingbond.—561. When
the sheriff has sold the property of a non-resident or other person up
on an execution issued on a judgment recovered against him in a
case where publication is provided for, and no personal notice of the
pendency of the action was given to such defendant, the plaintifff shall
not be entitled to receive any of the proceeds of such sale until he has
ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce a written undertaking, with surety to be
approved by the clerk, to the effect that he will refund the money
about to be received by him, or so much thereof as shall be necessary,
if the judgment shall afterward be annulled or set aside, and the de—
fendant shall show that the plaintifff’s claim is unfounded in whole
or in part. But surety to refund shall not be required in cases of at
tachment.
SEC. 802. (790.) Effect of death of defendant—562. The death of a
defendant, after the execution is placed in the hands of the sheriff to
be executed, shall not affect his proceedings thereon, except that the
amount of property allowed absolutely to the widow of the decedent
shall be exempt from levy and sale under such execution.
SEC. 303. (791.) Against the body—563. No execution shall be issued
upon any judgment against the body of any execution debtor, except
as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 804. (792.) Writ served by arrest and commitment.—-564. Before
any such execution shall issue, the plaintifff shall ﬁle with the clerk an
afﬁdavit, charging the debtor with fraudulently concealing, removing,
conveying, or transferring his property subject to execution, with in
tent to defraud and delay the plaintifff, or charging that the debtor has
money, rights, credits, or effects, with which the judgment, or some part thereof, might be paid, and which he fraudulently withholds or
conceals with a view to delay or defraud the creditor.

SEC. 805. (793.) Finding must designate the property.—565. The afﬁ
davit need not designate speciﬁcal y any property, monies, or effects,
fraudulently removed, transferred, concealed, conveyed, or withheld by
the debtor; but the jury or court, in determining the matters in issue be
tween the parties, if the ﬁnding be for the creditor, shall designate, in
the ﬁnding, the monies, effects, property, debts, or things in action,
subject to execution, which have been thus removed, concealed, trans'
ferred, conveyed, or withheld, and the value thereof.
SEC. 806. (794.) Notice to debtor.—566. Upon the ﬁling of the atli
davit, the clerk shall issue a notice, requiring the debtor to appear at
the next term of the court, and show cause why such execution should
not issue against him.
SEC. 807. (795.) Hearing, when had—567. After ten days’ notice, or
after the return of two notices of “not found,” the court shall hear
and determine the matters and things contained in the afﬁdavit.
SEC. 808. (796.) Hearing in absence of debtor.~—568. If the debtor
shall fail to appear and show canse, the court inay hear and determine
the same in the absence of the debtor; or a jury for that purpose may
be empaneled, if desired by the creditor.
SEC. 809. (797.) Issue 011 trial.—-569. If the debtor appear and plead
to the afﬁdavit any sufﬁcient matter to bar the issuing of the execution,
and an issue be taken thereon, the same may be tried by the court or
a jury, as in other cases.
SEC. 810. (798.) Issue against debtor—Execution.—570. If the issue
be determined against the debtor, the court, unless good cause be
shown, shall forthwith order an execution against his body, subject to
the rules and restrictions of the next two sections.
SEC. 811. (799.) If property surrendered, no execution—571. If the
debtor shall surrender such monies, effects, property, debts, or things
in action, to the use and for the beneﬁt of the creditor, or pay the value
thereof, as found by the court or jury, no execution shall, for that
cause, be issued against his body.
SEC. 812. (800.) On failure to surrender, execution issues—572. If the
debtor fail to surrender or pay, as provided in the preceding section,
upon the return of such finding, an execution shall forthwith issue
against his body upon the judgment.
SEC. 813. (801.) Writ served by arrest and commitment—$73. The
execution against the body shall be served by arresting the defendant,
and, unless discharged by due course of law, committing him to the
common jail of the county.
SEC. 814. (802.) Affidavit for arrest pending proceedings—574. If
the creditor show in his afﬁdavit that the debtor has not been held to
special bail in the original action; or, having been thus held, has
been surrendered by his bail; and that he has reason to fear, and
does fear, that such debtor will leave the state before the trial and de
termination of the matters alleged in the afﬁdavit, an order of arrest
and hail shall issue against the debtor, and be served and returned,
as in other cases.
SEC. 815. (803.) Recognizance.—575. The debtor, when arrested on
the order of arrest, may enter into a recognizance, with sufﬁcient
surety, for his appearance at the trial of such proceedings, and for the
surrender of his body if an execution be awarded.
SEC. 816. (804.) lts form, eﬁect, and return—576. The sheriff may
take the recognizance in the form and by the rules provided in other
ases for order of arrest and hail, either before or after the debtor is
committed to prison, and shall return the same to the proper court.
The recognizance shall have the same force as, in other cases, and all
subsequent proceedings may -be had thereon by the parties and per“
sons interested, as are provided in cases of arrest and hail.

SEC. 817. (805.) Female, etc., not liable—577. No female, or soldier
of the revolution, shall be imprisoned upon any order of arrest and
bail, or upon an execution against the body.
SEC. 818. (806.) Debtor, how discharged—578. Any person arrested
or imprisoned on execution may discharge himself from custody by
delivering to the sheriff a sufﬁciency of property, either real or per
sonal, to discharge the debt or damages due on the execution, to
gether with the interest and costs thereon; or by delivering to the
sheriff all the property, both real and personal, which he may have,
not included in the ﬁnding of the court or jury, subject to execution,
if any, together with the property, credits, and effects included in the
ﬁnding of the court or jury, and all his choses inaction, if any, ex
ceeding, with other property retained, the amount exempt by law from
execution.
He shall also make oath that he has no more or other
property, either real'or personal, subject to execution; and that he
has no monies, rights, credits, or effects in his possession, or under
his control, or in the possession or under the control of any other
person for his use, exceeding, with other property retained, the amount
exempt from execution; and that he has, neither directly nor indi
rectly, disposed of, transferred, or concealed any of his property,
rights, credits, monies, or effects, nor confessed or suffered any judg~
ment with intent to delay or defraud any of his creditors.

SEC. 319. (807.) Oath, how taken—579. For the purpose of enabling
the defendant to take the oath, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, upon
the prisoner’s request, to take him before some person authorized to
administer an oath, who shall reduce the oath to writing, explain it to
the prisoner, and cause him to be sworn to and subscribe it, and, hav
ing certiﬁed the oath, deliver it to the sheriff, who shall make its part
of his return, by appending it to the execution.

SEC. 820. (808.) Time and plahe of oath—Notice to creditor.—-580. The
execution creditor shall be notiﬁed of the time and place at which the
oath will be taken.
The notice shall be served upon the creditor, or
his agent or attorney, by the sheriff, if the creditor, his agent or at
torney reside in the county; and, if neither reside in the county, the
sheriff shall post up the notice in the clerk’s office ﬁve days.
SEC. 821. (809.) Creditor 'may examine prisoner.—-581. When the oath
is administered, the execution creditor, his agent or attorney, may
propound to the prisoner any relevant questions touching his property,
monies, rights, credits, and effects; and the person administering the
oath shall reduce the questions- and answers to writing, and forthwith
ﬁle the same with the clerk.
SEC. 822. (810.) Discharge—582. When the prisoner has strictly com
plied with the foregoing provisions, he shall be discharged.
SEC. 823. (811.) Disposition of property—583. Any property given up
by the person under arrest shall be disposed of by the sheriff in the
same manner as property taken on execution against property.
SEC. 824. (812.) Return of sheriﬁ.-—584. The sheriff shall make return
of all his doings therein, the discharge of the debtor, and the sale of
the property, according to the facts, to the court.
SEC. 825. (813.) Effect of death of prisoner.—-585. The arrest of any
person who may die while in custody shall not discharge the judgment
or any lien upon property, but the same may be enforced by any legal
proceedings.
SEC. 826. (814.) Proceedings upon escape—586. Any person escaping
from custody may be returned by the same or a new execution against
his body, or his property may be proceeded against in the same man
ner as if his body had never been taken in execution.

SEC. 827. (815.) Judgment debtor, when required to answer after re
turn. 592. When an execution against the property of the judgment
debtor or any of the several debtors in the same judgment, issued to
the sheriff of the county where he resides (or if he do not reside in
the state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment is rendered),
is returned unsatisﬁed, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor,
after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order, to be issued
by any court of record in the county to which such execution issued,
or by the clerk thereof in vacation, requiring the judgment debtor to
appear forthwith before the court, if in session (if the court is not in
session, then before the judge thereof, at a time and place to be speci
ﬁed therein, or on the ﬁrst day of the next term of the court), to an
swer concerning his property within the county to which the execu
tion was issued; and a transcript of a judgment from a justice of the
peace ﬁled and docketed in the circuit court shall, for the purposes of
this act, have all the effect of a judgment rendered originally in said
court.

SEC. 828. ( 816..) Judgment-debtor, when required to apply property
after execution—093. If, after the lSSlllllg of an execution against
property, the execution plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, shall
make and ﬁle an affidavit with the clerk of any court of record of any
county, to the effect that any judgment debtor, residing in such
county, has property (describing it) winch he unJustly refuses to
apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, the court, if in session,
or the judge or clerk thereof in vacation, shall issue an order requir
ing the judgment debtor to appear forthwith before the court, if in ,
session (if not, at the next term of the court, or before the judge
thereof, at a time and place to be speciﬁed therein), to answer con
cerning the same; and such proceedings may, thereafter, be had for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the sat
isfaction of the judgment, as provided upon the return of an execution.

SEC. 829. (817.) Order of arrest and hail, when had—594. When the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall, at the time of applying for the
order, or at any time afterward, make and ﬁle his afﬁdavit with the
court, or the clerk thereof in vacation, that there is danger of the
debtor leaving the state or concealing himself, and that there is rea
son to believe he has property, rights, credits, monies, or effects
which he unjustly refuses to apply to the judgment, with intent to de
fraud the creditor, the court shall issue to the sheriff of the county an
order of arrest and bail;
SEC. 830. (818.) Bond, when re aired—595. The sheriff, having taken
the execution debtor into custo y upon the order of arrest, shall require.
him to enter into a written undertaking to the plaintifff, with surety
to be approved by the ofﬁcer, that he will attend before the court, or
judge thereof, as required, and abide such order as shall be made; and
that he will not, in the meantime, dispose of any part of his property
not exempt from execution. In default thereof, he shall be coniinitted
to prison; and, upon breach of such undertaking, the plaintifff shall
have his remedy thereon to the amount of the value of the property
unlawfully withheld or disposed of. .
SEC. 831. (819.) Other persons required to answer, after issue and re
turn—596. After the issuing or return of an execution against the
property of the judgment debtor or any one of several debtors in the
same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any person or corporation
has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in any
amount, which, together with other property claimed by him as ex
empt from execution, shall exceed the amount of property so exempt
by law, such person, corporation, or any member thereof, may be re
quired to appear and answer concerning the same, as above provided.

SEC. 832. (820.) Witnesses and examination—597. Witnesses may be
required to appear and testify in the proceeding provided for in this
act; and either party may examine the other as a witness, in the same
manner as upon the trial of an issue; or the plaintifff may waive the
answer of the debtor, and rely upon other testimony. All such exam
inations and answers shall be on the oath of the party, except that
when a corporation answers, the answers shall be on the oath of an
ofﬁcer thereof.
SEC. 833. (821.) Orders of court as to property—598. Upon the hear
ing, the judge of the court may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or
any other person, or any debt due to the judgment debtor, to be ap
plied to the satisfaction of the judgment, and forbid transfers of prep
erty and choses in action; and such judge or court shall have full
power to enforce all orders and decrees in the premises, by attachment
or otherwise.
SEC. 834.- (322.) Costs—Proceedings summary—'99. Costs shall be
awarded and taxed in this proceeding as in other cases; and all pro
ceedings under this act, after the order has been made requiring parties
to appear and answer, shall be summary, without further pleadings,
upon the oral examination and testimony of parties and witnesses.
But the sufﬁciency of the order and of the affidavit ﬁrst ﬁled by the
plaintiﬂ' may be tested by demurrer or motion to dismiss or strike out
the same.
SEC. 835. (823. ) Petition t0 adopt Cl]ll(l.——1. Any person desirous of
adopting any child may ﬁle his petition therefore in the circuit court in
the county where such child resides. 
SEC. 836. (824.) Contents of petition, how veriﬁed—2. Such petition
shall specify—
First. The name of such petitioner.
Second. The name of such child; its age; whether it has any prop
erty, and, if so, how much. ‘
Third. Whether such child has either father or mother living, and,
if so, where they reside. Such petition shall be veriﬁed by the oath
or afﬁrmation of such petitioner.
SEC. 837. (825.) Order of adoption—New name and rights.—3- Such
court, when satisﬁed that it will be for the interest of such child, shall
make an oruer that such child be adopted, and .rom and after the ad
option of such child it shall take the name in which it is adopted and
be entitled to and receive all the rights and interest in the estate of
such adopting father or mother, by descent or otherwise, that such
child would if the natural heir of such adopting father or mother:
Provided, however, That should such adopted child die intestate, with
out leaving wife or husband, issue or their descendants, surviving him
or her, seized of any real estate or owning any personal property which
may have come to such child by gift, devise or descent from such
adopting father or mother, such property so coming to such adopted
child shall, on its death, descend to the heirs of said adopting father
or mother the same as if such child had never been adopted.

SEC. 838. (826.) Rights and duties of parties adopting.—-4. After the
adoption of such child, such adopted father" or mother shall occupy
the same position toward such child that he or she would if the natural
father or mother, and be liable for the maintenance, education and
every other way responsible as a natural father or mother.

SEC. 839. (827.) Consent of parents—Proceedings as to inmates of
Muse 0f refuge, etc—5. Such court shall not adopt such child, if it
have a father or mother living, unless such father or mother appear
in open court, and give consent thereto: Provided, That if such peti
tioner show, by two competent witnesses, that the residence of such
father or mother be unknown, then such court may adopt such child;
And provided, further, That if such child be, at the time of filing and
hearing such petition, an inmate of the house of refuge for juvenile
offenders, or of the Indiana reformatory institution for women and
girls, committed thereto by law, for other reason than the conviction
of crime or incorrigibility, such petition may be ﬁled in any circuit
court or superior court of this state, and upon the ﬁling of the written
consent of the board of control or board of managers of such institu
tions to such adoption, then such court may adopt such child.

SEC. 840. (828.) Costs—6. Such petitioner shall pay all costs of such
proceedings.
SEC. 841. (829.) Child adopted in another state—Proceedin .—1
Wherever any child may have heretofore been adopted or may ereaf
ter be adopted by any person in any other state of the United States,
under and pursuant to the laws in force in the state where such
adoption shall be made, the same shall, upon ﬁling the record thereof
with the clerk of the circuit court of any county within this state, and
havingthe same entered upon the order-book of said court in open
session thereof, have the same force and effect; and such child, so
adopted, shall have the same rights, and be capable of taking property
situate within this state by inheritance, upon the death of the person
adopting, whether before or after the passage of this act, as though
such child had been adopted within and pursuant to the laws of the
state of Indiana.

SEC. 842. ( 830.) Who may arbitrate—Agreement.—1. All persons,
except infants. married women, and insane persons, may, by an ill'
strument in writing, submit to the arbitration or umpirage of any Per"
son or persons, to be by them mutually chosen, any controversy ex
isting between them which might be the subject of a suit at law,
except as otherwise provided in the next section, and may agree that
such submission be made a rule of any court of .record designated in
such instrument. 

SEC. 843. (831.) What may not be arbitrated—Exception.——2. No such
submission shall be made respecting the claim of any person to any
estate in fee or for life to any real estate; but any claim to an interest
in a term for years, or for one year or less, in real estate, and contro
versies respecting the partition of lands between joint-tenants or ten
ants in common, or concerning the boundaries of lands, or concerning
the assignment of dower, may be submitted to arbitration.

SEC. 844. (832.) Bond—Agreement to make rule of court—3. When
an agreement is made according to the preceding sections, the parties
shall execute bonds, with condition to abide and faithfully perform
the award or umpirage, specifying therein the name of the arbitrator
or arbitrators, and the matters submitted to their determination, and
an agreement to make the submission a rule of court designated in
such agreement of submission.

SEC. 845. (833.) Time and place of meeting—N0tice.—-4. As soon as
such bonds are duly delivered, either party may appoint a time and
place for the arbitrator or arbitrators to meet, by giving to the op
posite party and to such arbitrator or arbitrators at least ten days’
written notice.

SEC. 846. (834.) Oath of arbitrators.—5. Before proceeding to hear
any testimony, such arbitrator or arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully
and fairly to hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to
make a just award according to the best of his or their understanding.
SEC. 847. (835.) Who to administer oath—6. Such oath, and the
oaths to witnesses, may'be administered by any person authorized to
administer oaths.
SEC. 848. (836.) Witnesses—7. Witnesses may be required to attend
before arbitrators, on behalf of either party, by subpoenas issued by
any justice of the peace; in the same manner, and subject to the same
process and penalties for disobedience, to be enforced by such justice
as in trials before justices of the peace.
SEC. 849. (837.) Hearing—Award of majority valid—8. As soon as
the arbitrator or arbitrators are ready to proceed to business, the par
ties may exhibit their proofs. All the arbitrators must meet together,
and hear the allegations of the parties, but the award of a majority is
valid, unless otherwise required by the submission.

SEC. 850. (838.) Award must be in writin ,signed and attested-9
The award shall be 1n writing, and signed y the arbitrator or arbitra
tors who agreed thereto, and shall be attested by a subscribing witness.
SEC. 851. (839.) Fees to be returned with award—10. The fees of
the justice issuing process and of the witnesses in such case shall
be the same as allowed before justices of the peace, and shall be ascer
tained and estimated by the arbitrators, and returned with the award,
including therein their own fees as allowed by law.
SEC. 852. (840.) Copies to be given to parties—11. A true copy of
the award, and of the costs aforesaid, shall be delivered to each of the
parties, or left at his last usual place of residence, by any one of the
arbitrators, within fifteen days after the signing of such award.

SEC. 853. (841.) Filing in court.—-12. If either of the parties shall fail
or refuse to comply with such award, the other party may ﬁle the
same, together with the agreement of submission, in the court named
in such submission. 

SEC. 854. (842.) Entry of award—Rule to show cause—13. Upon
such submission being proved by a subscribing witness thereto, or in
case of his death, insanity, or absence out of the state, then by proof
thereof as in other cases of a written instrument, and upon the award
also being proved in like manner, or by the arbitrators or any of them,
and upon proof that a copy of the award has been duly served on the
party against whom the rule is asked, the court shall cause such sub—
mission and award to be entered of record, and shall grant a rule
thereon against the adverse party, to show cause at that or the suc
ceeding term of the court why judgment shall not be rendered by such
court upon the said award. 

SEC. 855. (843.) Judgment on award—14. Upon the return of the
rule, the court shall conﬁrm the award and render judgment thereon,
unless the award be vacated, or modiﬁed, or postponed, as herein pro
vided; which judgment shall have the same force and effect as judg
ments in other cases.
SEC. 856. (844.) Hearing, when had on rule to show cause—15. If the
rule has been served ten days or more on the adverse party before the
time set for showing cause against the award, the court may proceed
to examine and determine the same in his absence; or if he appear,
they shall proceed to hear and determine the grounds alleged against
such award, if there be any.

SEC. 857. (845.) What causes may be shown.——16. In all cases where
an award or umpirage shall be presented to any court of record for a
judgment to be entered thereon, whether'the reference shall have been
made by submission of parties as aforesaid or by rule of court, the ad
verse party may show, for cause against the rendition of said judg
ment, any of the following grounds:
First. That such award or umpirage was obtained by fraud, cor
ruption, partiality, or other undue means; or that there was evident
partiality or corruption in the arbitrators, or any or them.
Second. That the arbitrator or arbitrators was or were guilty of mis
conduct in refusing to postpone the hearing upon sufﬁcient cause
shown, or in refusing to hear evidence material and pertinent to the
controversy, or any other misbehavior by which the rights of any party
shall have been prejudiced.
Third. That the arbitrator or arbitrators exceeded his or their pow
ers, or that he or they so imperfectly executed them that a mutual,
ﬁnal, and deﬁnite award on the subject-matter submitted was not made.

SEC. 858. (846.) When party may move to correct award—17. Any
party to such submission may move the court to modify or correct
such award or umpirage, in the following cases:
First. When there is air evident miscalculation of ﬁgures, or an
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property
referred to or mentioned in such award or umpirage.
Second. When the arbitrator or arbitrators shall have awarded up
on some matter not submitted and not affecting the merits of the de
cision upon the matters which were submitted.
Third. When the award or umpirage shall be imperfect in some
matter of form not affecting the controversy, and when, if it had been
a verdict, such defect could have been properly amended or disre
garded by the court.

SEC. 859. (847.) Proceedings on motion—18. The court shall bear the
prOofs and allegations of the parties, to invalidate and sustain such
award or umpirage, and shall decide thereon, either conﬁrming such
award or umpirage, or may modify and correct the same in the cases
prescribed in the last preceding section so as to effect the intent
thereof and to promote justice between the parties, and shall render
judgment on such original or corrected award or umpirage; or the
court may vacate such award or umpirage for any of the causes here
inbefore speciﬁed, at the cost of the parties seeking to enforce such
award or umpirage.

SEC. 860. (848.) Kinds of ind ment.—19. If such award or umpirage
be confirmed, judgment shal be given in favor of any party to whom
any sum of money or damages shall have been awarded that he re
cover the same; and if the award or umpirage shall have ordered any
act to be done by either party, judgment shall be entered that such act
be done according to such award or umpirage.
SEC. 861. (849.) Costs, hOW taxed—20. The costs of the proceedings
in court shall be taxed as in suits; and if no provision for the fees and
expenses of the arbitration shall have been made in the award or um
pirage, the court shall make the allowances therefore. But if there
was a suit pending previous to such submission, the costs of which
were not noticed by the arbitrators or umpire, the court shall not allow
or tax any of the costs thereof prior to such submission.

SEC. 862. (850.) Judgment to do an act, how enforced—~21. When,
by any judgment of the court on award or umpirage, any party shall
be required to perform any act other than the payment of money, the
court shall have power to enforce the same by attachment, until the
terms of such judgment shall be complied 'with.
SEC. 863. (851.) Reference of suit in open court—22. If the subject
matter of any suit pending in any court might originally have been
submitted to arbitration, the parties to such suit, their agent or attor
ney at law, may consent, by rule of court, to refer the matter in con
troversy to certain persons mutually chosen by them in open court.

SEC. 864. (852.) Referees, when sworn—Beport.-23. Such referees,
if required by the parties, shall be sworn in open court, or before any
ofﬁcer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and impartially to in
vestigate, adjust, and report the matters thus submitted, and shall
proceed to the investigation of such matters according to the submis
sion.of the parties, and report to the court at such time as shall be
agreed by the parties in such rule of reference.

SEC. 865. (853.) Report, and eﬁect thereof.-—24. When such report
shall be returned under the hands of the referees, or a majority of
them, it shall be entered on the order-book, and shall be of the same
effect, and be deemed and taken to be as available in law as the ver
dict of a jury.

SEC. 866. ( 854.) Judgment on report—~25. Either party may move the
court for judgment on such report; and if no sufﬁcient cause be shown
to the contrary, judgment shall be rendered thereon in like manner
and with likelforce and effect as if rendered upon the verdict of a jury.

SEC. 867. (855.) Pay of arbitrators and referees—26. Such arbitrators
and referees shall be allowed one dollar per day each for- every day
they are necessarily employed as such arbitrators.

SEC. 868. (856.) ‘Arrest—Conditions and manner.—-139. A defendant
.in a civil action can be arrested and held to bail only upon the con~
ditions and in the manner prescribed in this act.

SEC. 869. (857.) Order of arrest—Affidavit.—140. An order for the
arrest of the defendant shall be made by the court, in term time, in.
which the action is brought, or by the clerk thereof, in vacation, at
the commencement of the action, or at any time before judgment.
when there is ﬁled in the office of such clerk an afﬁdavit of the plain
tiff, his agent or attorney, specifying the plaintifff’s right to recover
an existing debt or damages from the defendant, and stating that he
believes the defendant is about to leave the state, taking with him
property subject to execution, or money, or effects which should be
applied to the payment of the plaintifff’s debt or damages, with intent
to defraud the plaintifff.

SEC. 870. (858.) Plaintiff’s undertakingé—Ml. The order of arrest
shall not be issued until there has been executed and ﬁled in the office
of the clerk of such court, by one or more sufﬁcient sureties of the
plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk or court making the order, a
written undertaking to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the de
fendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if
the order is wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintifff’s claim stated in the affidavit.

SEC. 871. (859.) Sheriﬁ to execute order—Contents.--142. The order
of arrest shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall state
the names of the parties to the action, the court in which the action is
brought, and the amount of the plaintifff’s claim speciﬁed in the aﬁi
davit; and shall require the sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold
him to bail in the sum of the plaintifff’s claim, with the costs of the
action, and to make return of the order on a day to be named therein,
with the recognizance, if any is taken.
SEC. 872. (860.) Arrest—143. The sheriff shall execute the order, by
arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged
by law.

SEC. 873. (861.) Recognizance of special bait—144. When-an order
of arrest and bail is executed, the sheriff shall take a recognizance of
special hail of some responsible person, resident of this state, in sub
stance that the surety acknowledges himself special bail for the de
fendant in the action; which shall be indorsed on the order of arrest,
and signed by the surety, and shall have the force and effect of a re
cognizance of special bail, and be obligatory as such.
SEC. 874. (862.) Return—145. It shall be the duty of the sheriff to
return the order of arrest to the office whence it issued, immediately
upon taking and approving of the recognizance of special bail, when
bail is taken, and in all other cases, on the return day, and in all
cases the officer shall indorse his doings thereon.
SEC. 875. (863.) Effect of recognizance—146. Any such recognizance
of special bail shall only amount to an undertaking that the defend
ant will surrender his body, or the money, property, and effects, or
the value thereof, held or owned by him at the time of ﬁling such afﬁ
davit; and in default of such surrender, the surety in such recogni
zance shall only be liable for the amount of the property, monies, and
effects which the plaintifff may show the defendant to have held or
owned at the time of ﬁling such aﬂidavit exceeding the amount ex~
,empt from execution

SEC. 876. (864.) Habeas corpus—147. When any person shall be com
mitted to prison on an order of arrest for want of special bail, he may
sue out a writ of habeas corpus in any court, or before any judge of
competent jurisdiction; and on the return thereof the plaintifff shall be
compelled to show that the facts alleged in the afﬁdavit, on which the
defendant is held to bail, are true; and on failure to do so, the defend
ant shall be discharged.

SEC. 377. (865.) Length of detention—148. When any person is com
mitted for want of bail, he shall be held in prison (unless he is bailed
or otherwise legally discharged) until ﬁnal judgment in the action in
which he is arrested; and if the judgment be against him he shall be
held for such time thereafter as the court shall direct, not exceeding
ten days.
SEC. 878. (866.) Plaintiff may object to insufficient bail—Notice.—149.
If the plaintifff deem the bail insufficient, he may, at the term to which
the writ is returnable, or at any term thereafter before ﬁnal judgment,
object to the sufﬁciency of the- bail, by giving three days’ notice of
the objection to the sheriff.
SEC. 879. (867.) Hearing—Proceedings—Liability of sheriff.—150. At
the time speciﬁed in such notice, the court shall proceed to hear and
determine as to the sufficiency of the bail; if adjudged insufficient,
and other bail, approved by the court, is not given, the bail shall not
be thereby discharged, but may he proceeded against by the plaintifff;
and if he can not recover the amount for which such bail may have
become liable, the sheriff shall be liable on his ofﬁcial bond for the
same, or so much as may remain unsatisﬁed, and for the costs of the
action against the bail.
SEC. 880. (868.) Sheriff—When n01; liable—151. The sheriff shall not
be liable to the plaintifff on account of the insufﬁciency 'of the bail, if
it shall appear that he acted with due care in accepting the same.
SEC. 881. (869.) Who may make affidavit—152. Affidavits of the plaint
iff’s right to the debt or damages which he claims may be made by any
person residing in this or any other state, territory, or country; and
additional afﬁdavits may be made by other persons, stating the further
grounds necessary to obtain an order for arrest and bail; and upon
ﬁling such afﬁdavits, duly authenticated, an order for the arrest and
hail may be entered as in other cases.
SEC. 882. (870.) Bail, when exonerated—153. The bail may be exon
erated either by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in
the state prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render
himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of
the county where he was arrested in execution thereof, at any time be
fore ﬁnal judgment against the bail or his recognizance.
SEC. 883. (871.) Arrest of principal by bail.—154. The bail may at
any time take a certiﬁed copy of the order of arrest and recognizance,
by virtue of which he may take his principal and deliver him into the
custody of the proper ofﬁcer. Such copy shall be given and certiﬁed
by the clerk.

SEC. 884. ( 872.) Surrender in open court.—155. If the court to which
the order of arrest is returnable be in session at the time of the sur
render, the same may be made in open court, and the court shall
cause the discharge of the bail from all further liability, to be entered
of record.
SEC. 885. (873.) Surrender in vacation to sheriﬁ or jailer.—156. If
the court be not in session, the surrender may be made to the sheriff
or keeper of the jail of the proper county, who shall receive the pris
oner and hold him in custody in like manner as if he had been com
mitted by virtue of the order of arrest on which he was held to bail.
SEC. 886. (874.) Copy of order must accompany surrender.—4157. But
the sheriff shall not be bound to receive any person so surrendered
unless the bail shall deliver to him a copy of the order of arrest and
recognizance, certiﬁed by the ofﬁcer who issued the original order of
arrest.

SEC. 887. (875.) Indorsement of reception—Effect.—-158. The sheriff
or keeper of the jail shall acknowledge the reception of the principal,
by an indorse'ment on the certiﬁed copy of the order of arrest; and the
surrender shall acquitthe bail from all further liability as special bail.
SEC. 888. (876.) New bad—159. Every defendant surrendered by his
bail may be bailed as if arrested by the original order of arrest.
SEC. 889. (877.) Notice of surrender after judgment—160. When the
surrender of the principal is made after ﬁnal judgment against him,
the bail shall, within ten days after, cause notice of the time and place
thereof to be given to the plaintifff or his attorney, if either reside in
the state; which notice shall be served by the sheriff, who shall de
liver a certiﬁed copy of the notice to the keeper of the jail, on or be
fore the expiration of ten days from the time of the surrender; but if
neither the plaintifff nor his attorney reside in the state, the notice
shall be posted up ten days in the clerk’s oﬁice of the county, and a
copy of the notice, certiﬁed by the clerk, shall be forthwith thereafter
delivered to the keeper of the jail.
SEC. 890. (878.) Disposition of surrendered defendant, after judg
ment—161. When the surrender is made after judgment, the prisoner
shall be detained in custody; but if the plaintifff shall not proceed to
charge him in execution within ﬁve days after the notice, the defend
ant shall be discharged from custody without any order for that pur
pose.
SEC. 891. (879.) Failure to notify—Liability of bait—162. If any
bail shall fail to give the required notice to the plaintifff or his attor
ney, and the principal shall be discharged, no proceedings being com
menced to charge him in execution, the bail shall remain liable on
his own recognizance.
SEC. 892. (880.) Suit on recognizance—Limitation—163. Whenever
the right of action has accrued against any special bail, the creditor
may at any time within two years after ﬁnal judgment against the
principal, and not afterward, maintain an action on the recognizance
in his own name.

SEC. 893. (881.) Writ—746. The writ heretofore known as the writ of
ad quad damnu'm shall hereafter be known as the writ of assessment of
damages.

SEC. 894. (882.) Raceway for ﬂouring mill, etc.——Damages.-—747. Any
person or persons desirous of erecting on his or their own land a
ﬂouring mill or other machinery to be propelled by water, and who do
not own the lands below the proposed site for such mill or machinery,
may make a raceway through such lands below, so that the water may
ﬂow from such proposed mill or machinery into the river or creek be
low, upon the person or persons desiring to make such raceway, pay
ing to the person or persons entitled thereto the equitable value of the
land taken for the purposes of such raceway, and such other damages
as the same may occasion to said owner or owners, and also pay to
the person or persons entitled thereto the damages which such raceway
may occasion to the owner or owners of other land below the said pro
posed mill or machinery; which damages shall be assessed as in other
cases. 

SEC. 895. (883.) Writ, by whom and hOW had—748. A writ of assess
ment of damages may be had by application to the circuit or other
proper court of the county where the damages to be assessed may be
occasioned, under the regulations and in the cases following:
First. By any person owning the land on one side of a water-course
upon which he desires to erect a mill or other machinery to be pro
pelled by water, to authorize him to take and assess the value of a
portion of land on the opposite bank, not exceeding one acre, belong~
ing to another person, whereon to abut a dam to be erected across the
water—course.
Second. To take and assess the value of such portion of the land, in
a like case, upon which a mill-dam has been abutted with the consent
of the owner.
Third. To assess the probable amount of damages to the lands.
creek, or spring of another, or the improvements thereon, by the over—
ﬂow of water or otherwise, which may be occasioned by any mill-dam
already erected or proposed to be erected. .
Fourth. To assess the damages which may be occasioned to any per
son by the waters of any river, creek, or spring becoming stagnant by
means of any mill—darn already erected or proposed to be erected.
Fifth. To authorize the removal of obstructions in the race and
water-course below any mill, and assess the damages to be occasioned
thereby, if any.
Sixth. To determine the height to which any person, about to build
or having built a dam, may raise the same at any time, without caus
ing back-water to ﬂow upon any other mill works situated above, on
the same water-course.
Seventh. To authorize any person, being the owner of a dam across
any water-course, or having a right to build such dam, for the purpose
of propelling a mill or other machinery by water, upon his own land
situated below the dam, where there is intermediate land of another
person, to make a race, excavation, or embankment through such in
termediate land.
Eighth. To authorize any person to divert water at his own dam, or
upon his own land, from the bed of any water-course in which any
other person has an interest, for the purpose of using the water in
propelling machinery upon the land of the person diverting it.
Ninth. To authorize any person injured in any manner by a mill
dam already built to have the damages assessed or the dam declared a
nuisance, as the case may require.
SEC. 896. ( 884.) Contents of application—749. The plaintifff shall
particular-l describe the locality of his mill and dam, also the lands
upon which he desires the damages to be assessed, the object contem
plated as the case may require, and the full name and residence of any
person legally interested, or in whose favor damages may be assessed,
and make them defendants.

SEC. 897. (885.) Jury—Number—Qualiﬁcations.—750. The jury shall
consist of disinterested freeholders, not less than six nor more than
twelve. the number to be ﬁxed by the court; but no person owning
land adjoining that upon which the damages are to be assessed or
upon which the mill may be situated shall serve as juror.
SEC. 898. (886.) Writ—Notice to parties interested—751. Upon the
application being made, the court may order the clerk to issue a writ,
reciting the material part of the application, and directing the sheriff
in empanel a jury, to meet upon the land described in the application,
on a day to be ﬁxed by the sheriff, who shall give to the plaintifff and
defendant ten days’ notice, if they reside within the state; if not, then
to their agent or attorney, if any reside in the county; if not, then no
tice may be given by publication, as in case of non-residents.

SEC. 899. (887.) Sheriff’s charge—View and assessment—752. When
the jury are empaneled and sworn, having met at the place designated,
they shall be charged by the sheriﬂ as to each duty required of them,
and they shall, to the best of their skill and judgment and according
to the exigency of the case, when required—
First. View and assess at its true value the land proposed for an
abutment, and set off the same, not exceeding one acre, by metes and
bounds.
Second. Examine the lands above and below the dam, the property
of the defendants described in the writ, and report whether the lands,
mansion house, gardens, or any improvements or appurtenances
thereto belonging, will be overﬂowed or otherwise injured, and assess
the amount of damages, if any.
Third. They shall inquire whether the navigation of the stream will
be obstructed, and the health of the neighborhood annoyed or injured;
and, if so, by what means the obstructions, annoyance, and injury
can be prevented.
Fourth. Whether such proposed mill or machinery will be of pub
lic utility.
Fifth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by construct
ing a race, excavation, or embankment through the intermediate lands
of another.
Sixth. Assess the damages which may be occasioned by diverting
the water from the bed of a water-course.
Seventh. Assess any other damages that may be sustained by any
defendant.

SEC. 900. (888.) Guardians for infants—7 53. When any of the parties
to be affected by the application are infants, they shall appear by a
guardian appointed by the court.
SEC. 901. (889.) May employ surveyor.—754. The sheriff shall,when
the court so directs, employ the county surveyor, or some other com
petent surveyor, to assist the jury in determining any height, distance,
or quantity of land, or any other fact necessary to be determined by
the jury.
SEC. 902. (890.) Challenge of jurors—Witnesses.—755. Either party
may challenge jurors, and compel the attendance of witnesses to tes
tify as to any matters to be determined by the jury, in like manner as
in the trial of civil actions.
SEC. 903. (891.) Parties may point out, eta—756. Either party may
attend, and point out to the jury the place where the mill and dam
are to be situated, the high-water and low-water marks, and the local
extent of the supposed injury to the land.
SEC. 904. (892.) Jury must inspect locality—757. The jury shall, in
all cases, inspect the localities described in the writ.
SEC. 905. (893.) Adjournments.—-758. If, from any cause, the inquest
can not be held on the day ﬁxed, the sheriff may adjourn to or ﬁx any
subsequent day previous to the return day; and the inquest may be
adjourned from day to day or to a future day previous to the return
day, when necessary.
SEC. 906. (894.) Signing and return of inquest.—-759. The inquest
shall be signed by the jurors, and forthwith returned by the Sheriff to
the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court. '
SEC. 907. (895.) Return of sheriff —Who bound—760. The sheriff
shall show in his return the service of the notice required; and no
person shall be bound by the proceedings, unless named in the writ
and notiﬁed.
SEC. 908. (896.) Pleadings—Issue—Costs.—761. Any defendant may
appear and traverse any material fact therein stated in the inquest, or
he may plead or show any valid matter in bar of the right of the
plaintifff to have the beneﬁt of such writ; and issues of law and of fact
may be made up and tried, and the court may adjudge costs therein,
and proceedings had as in other actions.

SEC. 909. (897.) Judgment and execution—762. The court may render
judgment and issue execution for any amount of damages assessed by
the jury against any such person owning or wishing to build any mill
or mill-dam in favor of the party entitled to damages, if desired -by
the party thus entitled.
SEC. 910. (898.) When order not granted-763. If it shall appear on
the inquest or other evidence, that any mill, curtilage, or garden of
any person will be, or has been overﬂowed or injured, or the health of
the neighborhood annoyed, the court shall not give leave to build the
mill-dam; but if none of those injuries have accrued, nor will likely
accrue, the court may allow the application, if otherwise proper.
SEC. 911. (899.) After mill erected, no 0rder—Excepti0n.—764. In case
of an application by any person, after having erected his mill-dam, on
damages shall be allowed, and the application shall be dismissed, un
less the case be such that leave would have been given to build a mill,
if the application had been ﬁled before the erection of the mill-dam.
SEC. 912. (900.) When water not to be diverted—"65. Water shall
not be diverted from the bed of any water-course, by the authority of
this act, to the injury of any mill or machinery already erected or in
the process of erection.
SEC. 913. (901.)v Payment of damages—Reversion—766. The plaintifff
shall not be invested with any rig ts under these proceedings until he
pays or tenders the damages assessed; which must be done within one
year after'the assessment is conﬁrmed, and not afterward. On pay
ment being made, he shall be seized in fee simple of the land appro
priated for abutting a dam, or for a race, excavation, or embankment.
If he fails to complete the mill and dam, or race, excavation, or em—
bankment, within three years after the inquest is conﬁrmed, or to put
the same in repair ﬁt for use within two years after being destroyed or
injured, such land shall revert to its original owner, his heirs or as
signs. If at the time of destruction or injury the owner be under legal
disabilities, he may repair the premises within two years after the dis~
ability is removed.
SEC. 914. (902.) Payment within year bars other recovery—767. Any
assessment of damages conﬁrmed by the court, and paid within a year
after conﬁrmation, shall bar a recovery for the same in any other ac
tion.

SEC. 915. (903.) Repairing embankment, etc.--Damages.——768- When
the water, backed up by any mill-dam, is about to break the banks of
the stream, so as to turn the water thereof out of its ordinary channel,
whereby such mill or machinery will be injured, the owner or 0.0
cupier thereof, if he do not own such banks or the lands lying contigu
ous, may, if necessary, enter thereon and erect and keep in repair suc
embankments and other works as shall be requisite to prevent such
injury, committing no unnecessary waste or damage; but the owner of
the bank may recover the actual damages sustained.
SEC. 916. (904;) Injury to embankment, etc.—Damages.—-769. If any
erson shall injure, destroy, or remove any such embankment or
other works, the 0Wncr or occupier of the mill or machinery may re~
cover of such person all damages which he may sustain by reason of
such injury, destruction or removal.
SEC. 917, (905). When railroad, etc., may have writ.—-770. When any
person, corporation, or company design to construct a canal, or rail
road, or turnpike, graded, macadamized, or plank road, or bridge, or
establish a ferry, as a work of public utility, although for private
proﬁt, being authorized by law to take real property therefore, such. per
son, corporation, or company may have a writ of assessment of dam
ages.

SEC. 918. (906.) Application, where ﬁled—Contents—Wrih—i'i'l. Such
person, corporation, or company may ﬁle an application for a writ in
the circuit ecurt, or, in vacation, in the ofﬁce of the clerk thereof,
setting forth the precise description of the real estate desired to be
taken, the names of the persons interested therein, making them de
fendants, and the purposes to which the same is to be converted, and
refer to the law which authorizes the taking of the property. The
clerk shall thereupon issue to the sheriff a writ of assessment of dam
ages, reciting therein the material part of the application, and direct
the sheriff to assess the damages by a jury.

SEC. 919. (907.) Jurors—Number—Qualiﬁcation.--772. The court,
upon the application, or the clerk in vacation, shall determine the
number of jurors at not less than six nor more than twelve, who shall
be disinterested ireeholders, not owning land within one mile of any part of the public way for which the land is taken.

SEC. 920. (908.) Inquest—Proceedings.—-773. The sheriff shall pro
ceed to hold the inquest; and his proceedings thereon, and the rights
of the parties and the persons interested, and the duty of the jurors,
and their proceedings, shall be in all respects according to the provis
ions of this article, as far as the same are applicable.
92L (909.) Land-owner may have writ—774. Any person hav
ing an interest in any land which has been or may be taken for any
such public work may have the benefit of this writ upon his own ap
plication, made as above provided, upon which like proceedings shall
be had as in case of applications made by the corporation, company,
or person prosecuting the work.

SEC. 922. (910.) No deduction of future beneﬁts—775. In estimating
any damages under this article, no deduction shall be made for any
beneﬁt that may be supposed to result to the owner from the contem
plated work.

SEC. 923. (911.) Sheriff to administer oaths—776. The sheriff shall
administer the proper oaths to the jurors, surveyor, and witnesses in
all cases contemplated by this article.
SEC. 924. (912.) Costs—777. Costs shall be awarded in all these cases,
as in civil actions.

SEC. 925. (913.) Causes.—197. The plaintifff, at the time of ﬁling his
complaint, or at any time afterward, may have an attachment against
the property of the defendant, in the cases and in the manner herein
after stated, where the action is for the recovery of money:
First. Where the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a
foreign corporation or a non-resident of this state.
Second. Where the defendant, or one of several defendants, is se
cretly leaving or has left the state, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Third. So conceals himself that a summons can not be served upon
him.
Fourth. Is removing or about to remove his property subject to ex
ecution, or a material part thereof, out of this state, not leaving
enough therein to satisfy the plaintifff’s claim. _ ,
Fifth. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his property
subject to execution, or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the
fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder, or delay his creditors.
Sixth. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his property
subject to execution, with such intent.
Provided, That the plaintifff shall be entitled to an attachment for
the causes mentioned in the second, fourth, ﬁfth and sixth specifica
tions of this section, whether his cause of action be due or not.

SEC. 926. (914.) When attachment shall not issue—Exception.—-198.
N0 attachment, except for the causes mentioned in the fourth, ﬁfth,
and sixth clauses of the preceding section, shall issue against any dob
tor while his wife and family remain settled within the county where
he usually resided prior to his absence, if he shall not continue absent
from the state more than one year after he shall have absented him
self, unless an attempt be made to conceal his absence.
SEC. 927. (915.) Concealing absence—Effect.—199. If the wife or
family of the debtor shall refuse or be unable to give an account of
his absence, or the place where he may be found, or shall give a false
account of either, such refusal, inability, or false account shall be
deemed an attempt to conceal his absence, within the provisions of
this act

SEC. 928. (916.) AffidaVIt.—200. The plaintifff, or some person in his
behalf, shall make an afﬁdavit showing: I
First. The nature of the plaintifff’s claim.
Second. That it is just.
Third. The amount which he believes the plaintifff ought to recover.
Fourth. That there exists in the action some one of the grounds for
an attachment above enumerated.
SEC. 929. (917.) B0nd.—201. The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf,
shall execute a written undertaking, with sufﬁcient surety to be ap~
proved by the clerk, payable to the defendant, to the effect that the
plaintifff will duly prosecute his proceeding in attachment, and W111
pay 'all damages which may be sustained by the defendant, if the prOceedings
of the plaintifff shall be wrongful and oppressive.

SEC. 930. (918.) Order—202. Upon the ﬁling of such afﬁdavit and
written undertaking in the ofﬁce of the clerk, he shall issue an order
of attachment, which shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff. It
shall require him to seize and take into his possession the property 0f
the defendant in his county not exempt from execution.
SEC. 931. (919.) Order to different counties—Judgment, when had.—203. Orders of attachment may be issued to the sheriﬁ of any other
county; and several of them may, at the option of the plaintifff, be
issued at the same time or in succession; but the costs only of such
as have been executed in whole or in part shall be recovered against
the defendant, unless otherwise directed by the court. The plaintifff
shall not have judgment in any such action eircept in some one of the
following cases, viz.:
First. When the defendant shall have been personally served with
process. .
Second. When property of the defendant shall have been attached
in the county where the action is brought.
Third. When a garnishee shall have been summoned in the county
where the action is brought, who shall be found to be indebted to the
defendant, or to have property or assets in his hands subject to the
attachment.

SEC. 932. (920.) When may issue on Sunday—204. An order of at
tachment may be issued and executed on Sunday, if the plaintifff will
show in his afﬁdavit that the defendant is about to abscond on that day,
to the injury of the plaintifff.
SEC. 933. (921.) Inventory and appraisemeuh—Return.—205. The sheriff
shall proceed, with the assistance of a disinterested and credible house
holder of the county, to attach the lands and tenements, goods and
chattels of the defendant subject to execution, and shall, with the as
sistance of the householder, make an inventory and appraisement
thereof, and return the same with the order.

SEC. 934. (922.) Lien 0f.—-—206. An order of attachment binds the de- ft:
fendant’s property in the county subject to execution, and becomes a l
lien thereon from the time of its delivery to the sheriff in the same ﬁr!
manner as an execution.
SEC. 935. (923.) Personalty attached before realty—Removal and pursuit—207.
The defendant’s personal property shall be ﬁrst taken
under an attachment; if enough thereof is not found to satisfy the
plaintifff’s claim and costs of the action, then his real estate. If, after
an order of attachment is placed in the hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the same in any county, within three days after the
removal.
SEC. 936. (924.) Delivery-bond.-209. The defendant, or other person
having possession of property attached, may have the same or any part thereof delivered to him, by executing and delivering to the sheriff
a written undertaking, with surety to be approved by the sheriff,
payable to the plaintifff, to the effect that such property shall be properly
kept and taken care of, and shall be delivered to the sheriff on
demand, or so much thereof as may be required to be sold on execution
to satisfy any judgment which may be recovered against him in the
action, or that he will pay the appraised value of the property, not
exceeding the amount of the judgment and costs.

SEC. 937. (925.) Right of property, how tried—210. Whenever any
person other than the defendant shall claim any property attached, the
right of property may be tried as in cases of property taken on execution, and the claimant, having notice of the attachment, shall be
bound to prosecute his claim as in such cases, or be barred of his
right.

SEC. 938. (926.) Examination on oath—211. The defendant or claim
ant of any attached property may be required by the court to attend
before it and give information, on oath, respecting the property.
SEC. 939. (927;) Lien 0f consignee—212. Goods attached in the hands
of a consignee shall be subject to a lien for any debt due him from the
consignor.
SEC. 940. (928.) Bond for restitution—213. If the defendant, or other
person in his behalf, at any time before judgment, shall execute a writ
ten undertaking to the plaintifff, with sufficient surety to be approved
by the court, clerk, or sheriff, t0 the effect that the defendant will ap
pear to the action, and will perform the judgment of the court, the at
tachment shall be discharged and restitution made of any property
taken under it or the proceeds thereof. 

SEC. 941. (929.) Sale of perishable goods—Notice.—214. When per
sonal property attached is of a perishable nature or its keeping ex
pensive, the court may direct the sheriff to sell it at public auction,
upon reasonable notice. If the property is liable to immediate dam—
age, the sheriff, in vacation, may sell it, by giving ten days’ notice,
without an order of court; and the proceeds of all sales shall be de
posited with the clerk.
SEC. 942. (930.) Expenses for keeping—215. The sheriff shall be al
lowed by the court the necessary expenscs of keeping the attached
property, to be paid by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs.
SEC. 943. (931.) Afﬁdavit and summons for garnishee—Iteturn.—216.
If, at the time an order of attachment issues, or at any time before or
afterward, the plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, shall ﬁle with
the clerk an affidavit that he has good reason to believe that any per
son, naming him, has property of the defendant of any description in
his possession, or under his control, which the sheriff can not attach
by virtue of such order; or that such person is indebted to the de
fendant, or has the control or agency of any property, monies,
credits, or effects; or that the defendant has any shares or interest in
the stock of any association or corporation—the clerk shall issue a
summons notifying such person, corporation, or association to appear
at the ensuing term of the court, and answer as garnishee in they
action. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff, and served and
returned by him in the same manner as a summons is served and re
turned in other cases. When the summons issues before an attach
ment the afﬁdavit must show seine one of the causes authorizing the
attachment.

SEC. 944. (932.) Liability of garnishee.- 217. From the day of the 
service of the summons, the garnishee shall be accountable to the
plaintifff in the action for the amount of money, property, or credits 
his hands, or due and owing from him to the defendant. 

SEC. 945. (933.) Statement of garnishee and examination—218. It
shall be the duty of any officer or agent of an association or corpora
tion, and of every other person summoned as a garnishee, when served,
or within ﬁve days afterward, to furnish the sheriff with a certiﬁcate
of the number of shares or rights of the defendant in the stock of such
corporation or association; or a description of the property held by
such corporation, association, or person, belonging to or for the bene
fit of the defendant; or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant
by such association, corporation, or person, whether due or not; which
certiﬁcate shall be returned by the sheriff with the summons. If such
ofﬁcer, agent, or person refuse to do so, he may be required by the
court to attend before it, and be examined, on oath, concerning the
same; and obedience to the orders may be enforced by attachment.
SEC. 946. (934.) Judgment for failure to answer.—219. > Whenever
any garnishee, being duly summoned, fails to appear and make dis—
covery as required by law, or fails to answer or demur to the matters
set forth against him in the affidavit or additional complaint or inter—
rogatories, such matters may be taken as confessed, or judgment en
tered by default, as the case may require; or he may be examined un
der oath touching all the matters charged in the afﬁdavit or additional
complaint; and all such proceedings, pleadings, and process, shall be
had, according to the practice in other cases, as shall be necessary to
determine the rights of the parties and render a ﬁnal judgment.
SEC. 947. (935.) Arrest of absconding arnishee.-—‘220. If any plaintifff,
or other person in his behalf, shall h e with the clerk an afﬁdavit that
he fears that the garnishee will abscond before judgment can be had,
with intent to defraud the plaintifff, and that he verily believes that
the garnishee has monies, things in action, goods, chattels, or effects
of said defendant in his possession, or is indebted to said defendant,
the clerk shall issue an order of arrest against the garnishee, and hold
him to bail therein as in a civil action.
SEC. 948. (936.) No judgment until main action determined—221.
Final judgment shall not be rendered against a garnishee until the
action against the defendant in attachment is determined; and if the
plaintifff fails to recover judgment either against the defendant or the
garnishee, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover his costs.

SEC. 949. (937.) Proceedings not affected by return of “no property.”
w222. The return of “no property found ” upon the order of attach—
ment shall not affect the proceedings against the garnishee.
SEC. 950. (938.) Costs as to rnishee.—-223. If the plaintifff recover
judgment against the defen ant, and the garnishee deliver up to the
sheriff, before judgment against him, all the defendant’s goods and
chattels, or other effects in his possession subject to execution, or an
inventory thereof, and pay to the sheriff or into court all monies due
from him or belonging to the defendant, the costs in the proceeding
against the garnishee shall be paid by the defendant; but if the gar
nishee shall not appear, or, if appearing, shall refuse truly to confess
the matter alleged, and, on the trial, the plaintifff shall recover judg~
ment against him; or if he admit that he has monies, credits or effects
belonging to the defendant in his hands, and shall refuse to pay or
deliver the same as above provided, he shall pay costs.

SEC. 951. (939.) Contract of garnishee, how performed—224. A
garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled in any case to pay or
perform any contract in any other manner, or at any other time, than
he would be bound to do for the defendant in attachment.
SEC. 952. (940.) Garnishee paying, is discharged—225. A garnishee
may pay the money owing to the defendant by him to the sheriff or.
into court, and shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for
monies s0 paid, not exceeding the plaintifff ’5 claim.

SEC. 953. (941.) Examination—Order of court—226. A garnishee, or
officer of a corporation, summoned as a garnishee, at any time after
being served with the summons ﬁve days, may be examined, in open
court, on oath; and if it be discovered on such examination that, at
the time or after the service of the summons upon him, he or the cor
poration was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was in
debted to him, the court may order the delivery of such property and
the payment of any such indebtedness into court, or the execution of
a written undertaking by the garnishee, with sufﬁcient sureties to be
approved by the court, payable to the plaintifff, to the effect that the
indebtedness shall be paid or the property forthcoming, as the court
shall direct.
SEC. 954. (942.) Collecting officer subject to garnishment. —— 208
Glerks of the circuit courts, sheriffs, justices of the peace, constables,
and all other ofﬁcers who may collect money by virtue of their ofﬁce,
and all executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees, shall be
subject to garnishment at the suit of any attachment creditor of the
person who has money or choses in action in the hands of such officer,
executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, at the time of the serv
ice of such garnishee process, in the same manner and to the same
extent as other persons are liable to be garnished in attachment pl‘O
ceedings.

SEC. 955. (943-) Claims of other creditors, how ﬁled—227. Any cred
itor of the defendant, upon ﬁling his afﬁdavit and written undertak
ing, as hereinbefore required of the attaching creditor, may, at any
time before the ﬁnal judgment in the suit, make himself a party to
the action, ﬁle his complaint, and prove his claim or demand against
the defendant; and may have any person summoned as garnishee, or
held to bail, who has not before been summoned or held to bail; and
propound interrogatories to the garnishee, and enforce answers thereto,
in like manner, as the creditor who is plaintifff.

SEC. 956. (944.) Subsequent creditors not aﬁected by dismissal.—228.
A dismissal of his action or proceedings in attachment by the ﬁrst at
taching creditor shall not operate as a dismissal of the action or pro
ceedings of any subsequent attaching creditor.

SEC. 957. (945.) Appearance, discharge and restitution—229. Any
defendant against whom an order of attachment has been issued may,
after appearing to the action, move to have the attachment discharged
and restitution awarded of any property taken under it; but an ap
pearance to the action shall not operate to discharge the attachment,
unless a written undertaking be ﬁled as required in section two hun
dred and thirteen [§ 928]. If the defendant appear, and judgment be
rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and any part thereof remain unset
isﬁed after exhausting the property attached, such judgment shall be
deemed a judgment against the defendant personally, and shall have
the same force and effect as other judgments; and execution shall is
sue thereon accordingly for the collection of such residue. If the
plaintifff’s undertaking be insufﬁcient, he shall have a reasonable time
to ﬁle an additional one.
SEC. 958. (946.) Effect ofj'udgment for defendant—230. If the judg
ment in the action is ren ered for the defendant, the attachment shall
be discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds, returned to
him.
SEC. 959. (947.) Judgment for plaintifff—Enforcement.——231. If judg
ment in the action be rendered for the plaintifff, or one or more of sev
eral plaintifffs, and sufﬁcient proof be made of the goods, chattels,
rights, credits, monies, and effects in the possession of the garnishee,
the court shall also give judgment in favor of the plaintifff or creditors
against the garnishee or the property of the defendant, or both, as the
case may require; which may be enforced by execution.

SEC. 960. (948.) Attachment property, how sold—232. After judg~
ment for the plaintifff, or one or more of several plaintifffs, property
attached and remaining unsold may be sold on execution, as in other
cases.
SEC. 961. (949.) Money, 110W distributed—233. The money realized
from the attachment and the garnishees shall, under the direction of
the court, after paying all costs and expenses, be paid to the several
creditors in proportion to the amount of their several claims as ad
justed, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the defendant.

SEC. 962. (950.) Action on plaintifff’s bond, whom—234. Every de
fendant shall be entitled to an action on the written undertaking of
the plaintifff or creditor by whose proceedings in attachment he shall
have been aggrieved, if it shall appear that the proceedings were
wrongful and oppressive; and he shall recover damages at the discre
tion of the jury. 
SEC. 963. (951.) Action by state—N0 affidavit or bond—235. In all
actions in the name of the state of Indiana, or of any person, agent,
or officer for the use of the state, if process be returned that any do
fendant is not found, an order of attachment may be issued and pro
ceedings had in like manner, as in other cases, without ﬁling any
afﬁdavit or written undertaking.
SEC. 964. (952.) Sheriff’s return—236. When an order of attachment
is fully executed or discharged, the sheriﬂ shall return the same, with
his proceedings thereon, to the court.
SEC. 965. (953.) Proceedings before justices—237. Attachments against
the goods and chattels, rights, credits, monies, and effects of defend
ants may be issued in cases contemplated in the foregoing provisions,
upon any claim within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, upon
ﬁling with the justice an afﬁdavit, as prescribed in this article, and
the justice shall perform the duties required of the court and the clerk
thereof, and the constable shall perform the duties required of the
sheriff in the above provisions. The constable shall return the order
of attachment within ten days with his doings thereon; and in case
where a summons has not been served and property has been attached,
the justice shall give three weeks’ notice of the attachment in some
newspaper published in the county, if any is published therein; if
not, then by posting up written notice thereof in three of the most
public places in the township; and ﬁx the day of trial at the expira
tion of such notice; 

SEC. 966. (954.) Trial—Judgment.-—238. If the defendant do not ap
pear and give bond for the release of the property attached, before the
day of trial, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine the cause;
and in case judgment be given against the defendant, he shall order
the property to be sold to satisfy the judgment, according to the pro
visions of this article.

SEC. 967. (955.) Garnishees.—239. Garnishees may be summoned, and
the same proceedings had before the justice, as provided in higher
courts.

SEC. 968. (956.) Proceedings where claim exceeds jurisdiction of justice.
--240.. When any suit is commenced before a justice of the peace,
and an attachment is also issued by said justice in the same action
against the property of the defendant, any person who shall havea
claim against said defendant of a larger amount than the jurisdiction
given to justices of the peace, may ﬁle the same with the justice of
peace under the attachment; and if any such claim is ﬁled, the justice of
the peace shall immediately certify the cause, with all the papers be
longing to the same, to the circuit court of the county wherein said
suit was commenced; and the clerk of said ecurt to which the cause is
certiﬁed shall docket the same; and the said court shall prOceed with
such cause in the same manner as if it had been commenced in said
court. 

SEC. 969. (957.) When plaintifff to pay costs.—241. If any person shall
ﬁle a claim before the justice of the peace, as stated in the preceding section, and shall, on the trial in the circuit court, fail to establish his
claim to an amount sufﬁcient to entitle him to recover costs in such
court, according to the provisions of law now in force, then, and in
that event, he may recover judgment for his claim, if proved, but
shall pay all costs that accrue in consequence of such transfer; but if
he shall recover judgment to an amount sufﬁcient to entitle him to
recover costs, then, and in that event, the attachment defendant shall
pay all costs to each attachment plaintifff that shall recover judgment
SEC. 970. (958.) Wages—Parties non-resident, n0 jurisdiction—242
Hereafter n0 court in this state shall have or entertain jurisdiction in
. \ any action of attachment, garnishment, or supplementary proceeding,
when the plaintifff and principal defendant are both non-residents of
this state, and the money sought to be reached by such attachment,
garnishment, or supplementary proceedings is the personal earnings
or wages due or owing to the principal defendant from any person or
corporation doing business in this state. 

SEC. 971. (959.) Wages for one month exempt—243. The wages of all
persons in the employ of any person or corporation shall be exempt
from garnishment and proceedings supplemental to execution in the
hands of such person or corporation, so long as such employs remains
in such employment, not exceeding one month’s wages at any one
time.
SEC. 972. (960.) Garnishee may pay one month’s wages—244. Any
person or corporation in debt for wages, as in the preceding section
provided, may, at any time after being served with a garnishee sum
mons, pay to any such employs the amount of wages exempted by the
preceding section; and such payment shall discharge such garnishee
defendant from liability for the amount so paid, as effectually as if
paid before the issuing of such summons.

SEC. 973. (961.) Who may conduct civil actions—830. A civil action
may be prosecuted or defended by a party in person or by attorney,
except that a corporation appears by attorney in all cases.
SEC. 974. (962.) Who may lie—Moral character—Emmination—Roll.~831. Every person of good moral character, being a voter, on appli
cation, shall be admitted to practice law in all the courts of justice;
but a jury may he demanded upon the question of character by any
citizen of the county. Moral character maybe proved by any evi
dence satisfactory to the court or jury trying the question; and any
peason desiring admission to the bar may, upon motion, be examined
touching his learning in the law, by the judge or a committee of the
bar whom the judge may select for that purpose. If he shall be
found, by reason of his learning, qualiﬁed to practice the law, as well
as otherwise qualiﬁed, he shall be admitted to the practice, which shall
be entered of record. A roll of attorneys shall be kept in every court,
and no name shall be placed thereon except such as are thus shown
to be qualiﬁed to practice law by reason of their learning therein.

SEC. 975. (963.) Certiﬁcate of admission—832. Whenever any person
has been admitted to practice law in a court of record in any county,
he shall be entitled to receive from the clerk a certiﬁcate of admission
which shall authorize him to practice law in all the courts of this
state; but any court may, at any time, inquire into and determine for
itself the moral character of any person practicing or offering to prac
tice law in such court.
SEC. 976. ( 964.) Non-resident attorneys—833. Any court may permit
an attorney who is not a resident of this state to practice law therein,
during any term of such court, upon his taking an oath for the faith
ful discharge of his duties.
SEC. 977. (965.) Oath and entry—834. Every person, before proceeding
to discharge the duties of an attorney, shall take an oath to support the
constitution of the United States and of this state, and that he will
faithfully and honestly discharge the duties of an attorney-at-law;
which oath shall be entered in the order-book of the court.‘
SEC. 978. (966.) Clerk to furnish court with list—835. At each terin of
the court, the clerk shall furnish the court with a list of the names of
all the attorneys having business in such court.
SEC. 979. (967.) Duty of attorney.—836. It shall be the duty of an
attorney-—
First. To support the constitution and laws of the United States
and of this state.
Second. To maintain the respect that is due to the courts of justice
and judicial ofﬁcers.
Third. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings, or de
fenses, only, as appear to him legal and just; but this section shall
not be construed to prevent the defense of a person charged with
crime, in any case.
Fourth. T0 employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes con
ﬁded to him, such means, only, as are consistent with truth, and
never seek to mislead the COUI‘t 01‘ jury by any artiﬁce or false stat?
ment of fact or law.
ifth. To maintain inviolate the conﬁdence, and, at every peril to
himself, to preserve the secrets of his client.
Sixth. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no
fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, un
less required by the justice of the cause with which he is charged.
Seventh. Not to encourage either the commencement or the contin
uance of an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or in
terest.
Eighth. Never to reject, from any consideration personal to him—
self, the cause of the defenseless 0r oppressed.

SEC. 980. (968.) Authority of attorney—837. An attorney has author
lty, until discharged or suspended by another—
First. To bind his client in an action or special proceeding, by his
agreement ﬁled with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes of the
court, and not otherwise.
Second. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or
special proceeding, during the pendency thereof or afterward, and,
upon the payment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge the claim
or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment.

SEC. 931. (969-) Written authority, when necessary—838. No judg~
ment shall be rendered against any party upon the agreement of an
attorney, n01“ any judgment by default, where the party has not been
notiﬁed, or personally entered his appearance, unless the written au
thority of the party be ﬁrst produced, and its execution proved to the
Satisfaction of the court.

SEC. 982. (970.) When to produce authority—839. The court orjudge
may, on motion of either party, and on showing reasonable ground
therefore, or without such motion, require an attorney to produce and
prove the authority under which he appears, and until he does so,
may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the party for whom he
assumes to appear.
SEC. 983. (971.) Relief against act—Repair of injury.—840. If it be
alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears, that he does so
without authority, the court may, at any stage of the proceedings, re
lieve such party from the consequences of the attorney’s act. It may,
also, summarily, upon motion, compel the attorney to repair the in
jury consequent upon his assumption of authority.
84. (972.) Deceit or collusion of attorney—Damages—Penalty.—-841. An attorney who is guilty of deceit or collusion, or consents
thereto, with intent to deceive a court or judge or a party to an action
or judicial proceeding, is punishable for a misdemeanor, and shall
also forfeit to the party injured treble damages, recoverable in a civil
action.
SEC. 985. (973.) Snspending attorney—Causes.—842. Any court of
record may suspend an attorney from practicing therein for any of the
following causes:
First. When he has been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor
involving meral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of con
viction is conclusive evidence.
Second. When he is guilty of a willful disobedience or violation of
the order of court, requiring him to do or forbear an act connected
with or in course of his profession.
Third. For a willful violation of any of the duties of an attorney,
as hereinbefore prescribed.

SEC. 986. (974.) Refusal to pay money—Proceedings.——843. When an
attorney, on request, refuses to deliver over money or papers to a per
son from whom or for whom he has received them in thecourse of his
professional employment, whether in an action or not, he may be re
quired, after reasonable notice, on motion of any party aggrieved, by
an order of the court in which an action, if any, was prosecuted (or
if no action was prosecuted, then by the order of any court of record)
to do so, within a speciﬁed time, or show cause why he should-not be
punished for contempt.

SEC. 987. (975.) Judgment—Execution.-—844. In cases contemplated
in the last preceding section, on such motion, or in an action brought
by the party aggrieved, the court may suspend the attorney from prac
tice in any of the courts of this state, for any length of time, in its
discretion. Judgment may also be rendered for the amount of money
withheld, deducting fees, if any are due, and costs paid by the attor
ney, with ten per cent. damages, which may be enforced by execu
tion, without the beneﬁt of stay or appraisement laws,‘and returnable
within thirty days. The court may also render any judgment, and
make any order respecting papers or property withheld, that may be
necessary to enforce the right of the party aggrieved, subject to any
liens the attorney may have thereon for fees.

SEC. 938. (976.) Complaint to remove or suspend, how made—845
The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney may be commenced
by the direction of the court or on motion of an individual. In the
former case, the court must direct some attorney to draw up and prose
cute the accusation; in the latter case, it may be drawn up by an?
person, and sworn to by the person making it. Such accusation may
be ﬁled in any court in which the attorney practices; and after ﬁve
days’ notice of the ﬁling, the attorney shall be bound to appear and
plead to the same, or suffer judgment by default. If he appear, plead
ings may be ﬁled and trial had as in other cases.

SEC. 989. (977.) Acquittal, ﬁnal—Appeal on conviction—Reinstate
ment—846. In proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney, a judg
ment of acquittal shall be ﬁnal and without appeal. But from a judg
ment of suspension or removal, or any other judgment against an
attorney, the accused may appeal to the supreme court, in the same
manner as from a judgment in a civil action. A motion may be made
at any time to reinstate an attorney who has been suspended or re
moved.

SEC. 990. (978.) Veriﬁed complaint—Warrant.—1. When any woman
who has been delivered of or is pregnant with a bastard child shall
make a complaint thereof in writing, under oath, before any justice of
the peace, charging any person with being the father of such child,
such justice shall, by his warrant, cause such person to be arrested
and brought before him.

SEC. 991. (979.) Trial—2. Upon the arrest of such person, or the re
turn of the warrant that he can not be found, such justice shall pro
ceed to hear and determine such complaint.
SEC. 992. (980.) Style of suit—Evidence—Woman a witness—3. The
prosecution shall be in the name of the state of Indiana, on the re
lation of the prosecuting witness; but the rules of evidence shall be
the same as in civil cases, and the mother of the child. if of sound
mind, shall be a competent witness.

SEC. 993. (981.) Bond to appear in circuit court-00mmitment.—4. If
the justice, on hearing, a judge the defendant to be the father of such
child, he shall, if such defendant is in custody, require him to give
bond in asum not less than two hundred nor more than ten hundred
dollars, with sufﬁcient sureties, payable to the state of Indiana, and
conditioned that he will appear at the next term of the circuit court of
such county to answer such complaint, not depart without leave, and
abide the judgment and orders of such court; or, failing therein, that
he will pay such sums of money and to such person as may be ad
judged by such court; and shall transmit such bond, together with a
transcript of his proceedings and the other papers in the cause, with
out delay, to the clerk of the circuit court of the proper county. And
if such defendant shall fail to give such bond, such justice shall coin
mit him to jail until discharged by law. Such bond, or any bond
given by such defendant on any continuance or arrest may be put in
suit by any person in whose favor the court may adjudge any sum of
money in such prosecution.

SEC. 994. (982.) Bond after commitment—5. Any person committed
to jail for failure to give such bond may be discharged from custody,
by ﬁling, at any time after his commitment, with the clerk such bond
to the satisfaction of such clerk; and a certiﬁcate of the clerk to the
sheriff shall be sufﬁcient to authorize him to discharge said defendant
from custody.
SEC. 995. (983.) Trial as in civil cases—6. The trial and continuance
thereof of such prosecution, both before the justice and in the circuit
court, shall, in all respects not herein otherwise provided for, be gov
erned by the law regulating civil suits.

SEC. 996. (984.) Justice must write woman’s evidence—7. The testi
mony of the mother shall be by such justice reduced to writing, read
carefully to such witness, and by her he signed; and shall, by such
justice, be returned to the circuit court with the other papers in such
case, to be used by either party to sustain or impeach the testimony of
such witness. The failure of the justice so to do shall not be ground
of dismissal in the circuit court; but such justice shall recover no fees
in such case.

SEC. 997. (985.) Bond upon continuance—8. Upon any continuance
granted either party, the court or justice granting the same shall re
uire of the defendant a like bond as is required in the fourth section
[§ 981], or commit him to jail for failure to give such bond, and such
defendant may be discharged from custody in the same manner as in
the ﬁfth section of this act [§ 982] provided.

SEC. 998. (986.) Trial in absence of defendant—Transcri t.—9. If the
defendant shall not have been arrested, or has escape after arrest,
such trial shall proceed in his absence; and if he be adjudged the father
of such child, the justice shall transmit the papers and a transcript of
such judgment, without delay, to the clerk of the circuit court of the
proper county, who shall ﬁle and docket the same for trial; and such
cause shall be heard and determined by such court in the same man
ner as if such defendant were present.

SEC. 999. (987.) Filing is lien on realty—10. The ﬁling of such tran
script, as in the preceding section of this act provided, shall operate,
from the time of such ﬁling, as a lien upon the real estate of 'the de—
fendant to the extent of the judgment which may afterward be ren
dered against him in such prosecution; and such judgment shall have
the same effect and lien as if rendered at the time of such ﬁling; and
such lien shall be declared in such judgment.
SEC. 1000. (988.) No abatement if mother dies—Proceedings—Evi
deuce—11. The death of the mother shall not abate such suit, if the
child be living; but a suggestion of record of the fact shall be made,
and .the name of the child substituted in the proceedings for that of
the mother, and a guardian ad litem shall be appointed for that pur
pose, who shall not be liable for costs; and in such case, the testimony
of the mother, taken in' writing before the justice, may be read in
evidence, and shall have the same force as if she were living, and had
testiﬁed to the same in court.

SEC. 1001. (989.) When clerk to issue warrant—Bond—Oommitment.—12. When the defendant is not in custody, or under bond, and a tran
script has been ﬁled, as in the ninth section [§ 986] required, the
clerk of the circuit court shall issue to the sheriff of any county Where
such defendant may be alleged to be, a warrant for his apprehension;
and such sheriff, if he arrest such defendant, shall require of him such
bond as in the fourth section [§ 981] required; and on his failure to
give the same to the satisfaction of such sheriff, he shall commit him
to the jail of the county where such trial is pending.
SEC. 1002. (990.) Trial in circuit court—13. If the defendant, in the
circuit court, deny the charge, the issue shall be tried by the court or
a jury.

SEC. 1003. (991.) Judgment against defendant—14. If such jury ﬁnd
that theldefendant is the father of such child, or such defendant, in
court, shall confess the same, he shall be adjudged the father of such
child, and stand charged with the maintenance and education thereof.
SEC. 1004. (992.) Order to pay—Gommitment—How released—15
Such court shall, on such verdict and judgment, make such order as
may seem just for securing such maintenance and education to such
child, by the annual payment to such mother (or if she be dead or an
improper person to receive the same, to such other person as the court
may direct) of such sums of money as may be adjudged proper, and
shall render judgment for the same, specifying the terms of payment;
and shall require of such defendant, if he be in custody, to replevy
such judgment by good freehold surety, or, in default thereof, shall
commit such defendant to jail. And should the defendant fail to re
plevy or pay said judgment, and in default thereof be committed to
jail, and upon proof thereof being made to the court, that the defend
ant has been imprisoned in the jail of the county fora period of twelve
months from the date of his imprisonment, and that he is unable to
pay or replevy the same, he may be released from imprisonment by
an order of the court, made at any regular term of said court; which
order of release shall be entered upon the records of said court.

SEC. 1005. (993.) Execution Without relief—16. Execution may issue
on such judgments, whenever any amount is due on the same; and
shall be executed without any relief whatever from valuation or ap
praisement laws.
SEC. 1006. (994.) Suit, how dismissed—Entry.——17. The prosecuting
witness, if an adult, may, at any time before ﬁnal judgment, dismiss
such suit, if she will ﬁrst enter of record an admission that provision
for the maintenance of the child has been made to her satisfaction;
and if such witness be a minor, she may dismiss such suit, if it be
ﬁrst shown to the satisfaction of the court in which the same is pend
ing, that suitable provision has been made and properly secured for
the maintenance of the child, and a ﬁnding of the court to that effect
entered of record. And such entry, in either case, shall be a bar to
all other prosecutions for the same cause and purpose.

SEC. 1007. (995.) Limitation tWO years—18. No prosecution under
this act shall be instituted after two years from the birth of such
bastard child.
SEC. 1008. (996.) Judgment may be reduced on child’s death—19
Upon the death of any bastard child after judgment rendered as afore
_ said, and before the expiration of the time limited for the last payment
on such judgment, the court rendering such judgment may make such
reduction in the amount of the same as may be rendered proper and
’ just in consequence of such death.
SEC. 1009. (997.) Child’s death not to abate or ban—20. The death
of a bastard child shall not be cause of abatement or bar to any prose
cution for bastardy; but the court trying the same shall, on convic
tion, give judgment for such sum as shall be deemed just.

SEC. 1010. (998.) Prosecutor conducts suit—21. The several prosecut
ing attorneys within their respective circuits shall prosecute all causes
originating under this act. '
SEC. 1011. (999.) Defendant dying, action survives—22. In case of
the death of the putative father of such child, either before or after
the commencement of prosecution, and after the preliminary examinn- ,
tion before the justice, the right of action shall survive, and may be
prosecuted against the personal representatives of the deceased with
like effect as if such father were living, except that no arrest of such
personal representatives shall take place or bond be required.

SEC. 1012. (1000.) Petition to circuit court.-1. The circuit courts in
the several counties of this state may change the names of persons and
corporations on application by petition.
SEC. 1013. (1001.) Application, where made—2. The application of a
person may be made to the circuit court of the county in which such
person resides, and of a corporation to the circuit court of the county
in which such corporation is situate or in which its principal office is
ocated.
SEC. 1014. (1002.) Notice by publication—3. Upon a petition being
ﬁled for such change, the applicant shall give notice thereof by three
weekly publications in some newspaper of general circulation printed
and published in the proper county, or, if no newspaper be printed
therein, in a newspaper printed and published nearest thereto in some
adjoining county, thirty days prior to the ﬁrst day of the term at
which such petition shall be heard.
SEC. 1015. (1003.) ‘Proof of publication-4. Proof of the'publication
required in this act shall be made by ﬁling a copy of such published
notice, veriﬁed 'by the afﬁdavit of a disinterested person; and when
such proof of such publication is made. the court shall proceed to hear
and determine said petition, and make such order and decree therein
as to such court shall seem just and reasonable.
SEC. 1016. (1004.) Copy of decree evidence—5. A copy of the decree
of such court, changing the name of any person or corporation, certi
ﬁed under the seal of such court by the clerk thereof, shall be sufﬁ
cient evidence of the name of such person or corporation, and of such
change having been made, in any court of this state.

SEC. 1017. (1005.) Direct—Disturbing business of court—1. Every
person who shall, by the commission of any felony, misdemeanor, or
other unlawful act; or who by talking, moving about, or by signs, or
gestures, or in any other manner, in any court of record, while the
same is open for the transaction of business, and engaged therein, create
any noise or confusion therein, whereby the business and proceedings
of said court shall be disturbed, shall be deemed to be guilty of a
direct contempt of said court.

SEC. 1013. (1006.) Direct—Refusing to testify, etc.—2. Every person
who being sworn to testify as a witness in any court of record, in any
trial or proceeding therein, shall refuse to testify touching the same;
or who, being required by any court to be sworn in any such trial or
proceeding,shall refuse to take an oath or afﬁrmation therein; or who,
while upon the witness stand, shall purposely so demean himself as
to retard or disturb the proceedings thereof—shall be deemed guilty of
a direct contempt thereof.
SEC. 1019. (1007.) Indirect — Disobeying process—3. Every person
who shall be guilty of any willfull disobedience of any process Or any
order lawfully issued by any court of record, or by the proper ofﬁcer
thereof under the authority of law or the direction of such court, after
the same shall have been served upon him, shall be guilty of an in
direct contempt of the court from which such process or order shall
have issued. 

SEC. 1020. (1008.) indirect—Resisting process, eta—l4. Every person
who shall willfully resist, hinder, or delay the execution of any law
ful process or order of any court of record shall be guilty of an indi
rect contempt of said court. And every person who shall offer, give,
or promise any reward, or who shall threaten to assault or injure, or
shall assault or beat, or in any other manner whatever inﬂuence or
intimidate, or attempt to inﬂuence, any witness to give or abstain from
giving testimony in any case, or to abstain from attending as such
witness in any case; or who shall do any act to put such witness in
fear, on account of any testimony which he or she may have given; or
who, on account of any such testimony, shall injure or threaten to
injure such witness—shall be guilty of a direct or indirect contempt
of the court in which such witness may be called to testify, according
as the same may be done in the presence of such court or elsewhere
out of the presence thereof.

SEC. 1021. (1009.) Indirect—False report of trial.-—5. Every person
who shall falsely make, utter, or publish any false or grossly inaccu
rate report of any case, trial, or proceeding, or part of any case, trial,
or proceeding thereof, shall be deemed guilty of an indirect contempt
of the court in which such case, trial, or proceeding may have been
instituted, held, or determined, if made at any time after such pro
ceeding shall have been commenced, and at any time while the same
is pending, and while the court shall have jurisdiction thereof, and at
any time before it shall be fully determined and ended, or, if such re
port be so made pending such case, trial, or proceeding, touching any
ruling, or order of said court therein, such person shall be deemed
guilty of an indirect contempt of the court making such ruling or or
er

SEC. 1022. (1010.) Punishment—6. Punishments for contempts of
court, under this act, may be by ﬁne or imprisonment, or both, in
the discretion of the court inﬂicting the same; but no ﬁne shall exceed
the sum of ﬁve hundred dollars, nor shall any imprisonment extend
beyond the term of three months.

SEC. 1023. (1011.) Trial for direct—Appeal.—7. When any person
shall be arraigned for a direct contempt in any court of record of this
state, no afﬁdavit, charge in writing, or complaint shall be required
to be ﬁled against him, but the cpurt shall distinctly state the act,
words, signs, or gestures, or other conduct of the defendant which is
alleged to constitute such contempt; and such statement shall be re~
duced to writing, either by the judge making it or by some reporter
authorized by him to take it down when made; and the same shall be
substantially set forth in the order of the court on the same, together
with any statement made in explanation, extenuation, or denial thereof
which the defendant may make in response thereto; and the court
shall thereupon pronounce judgment, either acquitting and discharg
ing the defendant or inﬂicting such punishment upon him as may be
consistent with the provisions of this act; and if found guilty, the de
fendant shall have the right to except to the opinion and judgment of
the court. And in all cascs where the defendant may be adjudged t0 _
pay a ﬁne of ﬁfty dollars or more, or to be imprisoned for such c0n-'
tempt, he shall have the right, either before or after the payment of
such ﬁne or undergoing such imprisonment, to move the court to re
consider its opinion and judgment of the case, upon the facts before
it, or upon the afﬁdavits of any or all persons who were actually pres'
cut and heard or saw the conduct alleged to have constituted such
contempt; and, if the defendant shall fail to present the aﬁidavitof
every person present, in support of his motion, the court may direct
the aﬁidavits of all such persons as were so present (whose afﬁdavits
the defendant may have failed to procure) to be procured; and upon
all such afﬁdavits and the original statements of the court and him
self touching such contempt, the defendant may move the court for a
new trial, and rescission of its judgment against him; and, if the court
shall thereupon overrule such motion, the defendant may except and
ﬁle a bill of exceptions, as in other criminal actions; and in all cases
an appeal shall lie thereupon to the supreme court; or in case such
judgments shall have been rendered in any special term of any 811'
perior court, an appeal shall lie in the ﬁrst instance to the general
term thereof, and thence, as in other cases, to the supreme court.

SEC. 1024. (1012.) Indirect—Rule to show cause—8. In all cases of
indirect contempt, the person charged therewith shall be entitled, be
fore answering thereto or' being punished therefore, to have served upon
him a rule of the court against which the alleged contempt may be
'committed; which said rule shall clearly and distinctly set forth the
facts which are alleged to constitute such contempt, and shall specify
the time and place of such facts with such reasonable certainty as to
inform the defcndant of the nature and circumstances of the charge
against him, and shall specify a time and place at which he is required
to show cause, in said court, why he should not be attached and pun
ished for such contempt, which time the court shall, on proper show
ing, extend so as to give the defendant a reasonable and just opportu
nity to purge himself of such contempt. No such rule, as hereinbe
fore provided for, shall ever issue until the facts alleged therein to
constitute such contempt shall have been brought to the knowledge of
the court by an information duly veriﬁed by the oath or afﬁrmation of
some officers of the court or other responsible person.

SEC. 1025. (1013.) Proceedings—Decision~Appeal.-9. If the defend
ant shall fail to appear in said court, at the time and place speciﬁed in
the rule provided for in the last preceding section, to answer the same,
or if, after having appeared thereto, the defendant shall fail or refuse
to answer touching such alleged contempt, the court may proceed at
once, and without any further delay, to attach and punish him or her
for such contempt; but if the defendant shall answer to the facts set
forth in such rule, by showing that, even if they are all true, they do
not constitute a contempt of the court, or by denying or explaining or
confessing and avoiding them, so as to show that no contempt was in- tended, then, and in every such case, the court shall acquit and dis
charge the defendant. But if the defendant shall not, in his answer
to such rule, sufficiently deny, explain, or avoid the facts therein set
forth, so as to show that no contempt has been committed, the court
may proceed to attach and punish him for such contempt by ﬁne or
imprisonment, or both, as hereinbefore provided; and the defendant,‘
having appeared to such rule, may except, ﬁle a bill of exceptions,
and appeal to the general term and to the supreme court, in the same manner
as in cases of direct contempt.

SEC. 1026. (1014.) To what courts law applicableroviso.—10. The
provisions of this act shall apply to all proceedings for contempt in
all courts of record in this state except the supreme court thereof:
Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall be construed
or held to embrace, limit, or control, any proceeding against any of
ﬁccr or party for contempt for the enforcement of civil rights and
remedies: And provided, further, That the provisions of this act Shall
not apply to any case where any person has been personally served
with notice to appear and testify as a witness in any court of this
state, in any case, civil or criminal, but that such person so failing to
appear as a witness may he proceeded against as for contempt of court
by attachment, as though this act was not in force; but the proceed
ing against such absent witness by attachment shall not cause a con
tinuance of" the case in which such witness was subpoenaed to testify

SEC. 1027. (1015.) Real property, how conveyed.—616. Real property
may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court
First. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered t0
convey real property to another or any interest therein.
Second. Or where real property, or any interest therein, has bee"
sold, and the purchase-money paid.
SEC. 1028. (1016.) Contents of deed—617. The deed of the commis
sioner shall so refer to the judgment authorizing the conveyance, that
the same may be readily found, but need not recite the record in the
case generally.
SEC. 1029. (1017.) Title passed under judgment—618. A conveyance
made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to the grantee the title of
the parties ordered to convey the land.
SEC. 1030. (1018.) Title passed under sale—619. A conveyance made
in pursuance of a sale ordered by the court shall pass to the grantee
the title of all the parties to the action or proceeding.

SEC. 1031. (1019.) Approval of court necessary—620. A conveyance
by a commissioner shall not pass any right, until it has been exam
ined and approved by the court; which approval shall be indorsed on
the conveyance and recorded with it.
SEC. 1032. (1020.) Signature—Names of parties—621. It shall be
sufficient for the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only,
without affixing the names of the parties whose title is conveyed; but
the names of the parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.
SEC. 1033. (1021.) Recording-4622. The conveyance shall be recorded
in the ofﬁce in which, by law, it should have been recorded had it been
made by parties whose title is conveyed by it.
SEC. 1034. (1022.) Conveyance by party, how enforced—623. In case
of a judgment to compel a party to execute a conveyance of real estate,
the court may enforce the judgment by attachment or sequestration,
or appoint a commissioner to make the conveyance.

SEC. 1035. (1023.) Form of commissioner’s deed—3. If the convey
ance is made by a commissioner appointed by the court, the following
form may be used, viz.: “A. 13., commissioner by the order (or judg
ment) of (naming the court), in the case of (naming the party plain
tiff), against (naming the party defendant), (or) on petition of (noun
ing the description of the petitioner as A. B., administrator of C. D.),
(or) guardian of (naming the wards), entered in (describe the kind
of record, number of volume and page), conveys to E. F. (describe
the premises),for (state the consideration)

SEC. 1036. (1024.) Marriages V0id.—1. All marriages prohibited by
law on account of consanguinity, afﬁnity, diﬂerence of ‘color, or where
either party thereto has a former wife or husband living, if solemnized
within this state, shall be absolutely void without any legal proceed
ings.
SEC. 1037. (1025.) Marriages voidable—Issue legitimate-25. When
either of the parties to a marriage shall be incapable, from want of age
or understanding, of contracting such marriage the same may be
declared void, on application of the incapable party, by any court
having jurisdiction to decree divorces; but the children of such mar
riage, begotten before the same is annulled, shall be legitimate; and
in such cases the same proceedings shall be had as is provided in ap
plications for divorce.
SEC. 1038. (1026.) Issue of certain marriages legitimate.--2. The
issue of a marriage, vord on account of consanguinity, afﬁnity, or
difference of color, shall be deemed to be legitimate.

SEC. 1039. (1027.) When issue legitimate, though former marriage ex
ists.—3. When either of the parties to a marriage, void because a
former marriage exists undissolved, shall have contracted such void
marriage in the reasonable belief that such disability did not exist,
the issue of such marriage, begotten before the discovery of such dis»
ability by such innocent party, shall be deemed legitimate.
SEC. 1040. (1028.) Proceedings to determine legitimacy.—4. For the
purpose of evidence, any person or persons interested in the question
of such legitimacy may ﬁle his petition in the circuit court or superior
court of any county in this state where either of the parties to said
marriage may reside, setting forth the facts, and making defendants
thereto all persons interested in such question, and give such notice
to said defendants as is by this act required to be given to the defend
ant on a petition for a divorce; and the court, on hearing such petition,
shall decree such issue to be legitimate or illegitimate, as the facts
may be. And from such decree an appeal may be taken to the su
preme court, and when taken, the case shall be governed by the same
rules and disposed of as other civil actions are in cases of appeal.
SEC. 1041. (1029.) Decree conclusive—Review by infant—5. Such de
cree as shall be ﬁnally rendered in cases provided for in the next pre
ceding section shall be conclusive between the parties thereto and those
claiming under them; but any minor defendant may have the same
reviewed, at any time within one year after arriving at the age of
twenty-one years.
SEC. 1042. (1030.) Judgment, how opened—Purchasers protected—6.
Parties against whom a judgment of divorce has been or shall be ren
dered, without other notice than publication in a newspaper, may have
the same opened at any time, so far as relates to the care, support, and
custody of the children. Parties against whom a judgment of divorce
shall hereafter be rendered, without other notice than publication in a
newspaper, may, at any time within two years after the rendition of
such judgment, have the same opened, and be allowed to defend as
well on the granting of the divorce as in relation to the allowance of
alimony and the disposition of property; and until the expiration of
said two years, it shall not be lawful for the party obtaining such CH“,
vorce to marry again; which shall be stated in the decree of the court.
Before any judgment shall be opened, as above, for any cause, the ap
plicant shall ﬁle a statement of the causes relied upon, and give such
notice thereof as the court in term time, or the judge thereof in race-1
tion, shall require. And when the causes speciﬁed by such applicant
relate to the granting of the divorce, alimony, and disposition of prop
erty, or either of them, the applicant shall file an affidavit stating that,
during the pendency of the action, he or she received no actual notice
thereof, in time to appear in court at the time of the trial of such ac
tion, and object to said judgment, and shall also pay such costs as th
court may direct. Any property which may have been sold under any
such judgment so sought to be opened, and which shall have passed
into the hands of a purchaser or purchasers in good faith, shall not be
affected by any proceeding consequent upon the opening of such judg
ment.

SEC. 1043. (1031.) Petition for /divorce—Residence—Aﬁidavit.~—7
Divorce may be decreed by the superior and circuit courts of this
state, on petition ﬁled by any person who, at the time of the ﬁling of
such petition, is and shall have been a bona ﬁde resident of the state
for the last two years previous to the ﬁling of the same, and a bona
ﬁde resident of the county at the time of and for at least six months
immediately preceding the ﬁling of such petition; which bona ﬁde
residence shall be duly proven by such petitioner, to the satisfaction
of the court trying the same, by at least two witnesses who are resi
dent freeholders and householders of the state. And the plaintiﬂ
shall, with his petition, ﬁle with the clerk of the court an afﬁdavit '
subscribed and sworn to by himself, in which he shall state the length
of time he has been a resident of the state, and stating particularly the
place, town, city, or township in which he has resided for the last two
years past, and stating his occupation, which shall be sworn to before
the clerk of the court in which said complaint is ﬁled.

SEC. 1044. (1032-) Causes for divorce—8. Divorces may be decreed
upon the application of the injured party, for the following causes and
no other:
First. Adultery, except as hereinafter provided.
Second. Impotency, existing at the time of the marriage.
Third. Abandonment for two years.
Fourth. Cruel and inhuman treatment of either party by the other.
Fifth. Habitual drunkenness of either party.
Sixth. The failure of the husband to make reasonable provisions for
his family for a period of two years.
Seventh. The conviction, subsequent to the marriage, in any
country, of either party, of an infamous crime.
SEC. 1045. (1033.) When not granted for adultery—9. Divorces shall
not be granted for adultery in any of the following cases:
First. When the offense has been committed with the connivance
or consent of the party seeking the divorce. .
Second When the party seeking the divorce has voluntarily cohab
ited with the other, with knowledge of the fact; or has failed to ﬁle
his or her petition for two years after he or she had discovered the
same.
Third. When the party seeking the divorce has also been guilty of
adultery under such circumstances as would have entitled the opposite
party, if innocent, to a decree.
SEC. 1046. (1034.) Causes, how speciﬁed—10. A petition for divorce
shall specify the causes therefore with certainty to a common intent.

SEC. 1047. (1035.) Summons and service—11. The clerk of the court
Ll in which such petition is ﬁled shall issue a summons for the defend
ant to appear and answer said petition; which summons shall be per
,, sonally served on said defendant; if a resident of the state, either by
in reading or leaving a copy thereof at his or her usual place of resi
1 E J ' dence, such usual place to be the residence of such defendant at the
time the copy is so left.

SEC. 1048. (1036.) Notice by publication—Copy, when mailed—12. If
it shall appear by the affidavit of a disinterested erson that the de'
fendant is not a resident of this stateTtlie cleidf shall give notice of
the pendency of such petition, by publication for three successive weeks
in some weekly newspaper of general circulation, published in such
county, or if there be” no such paper, then in one published in this
state nearest to the county seat of such county: Provided, That the
plaintiﬁ shall, in case such notice is to be given by publication as
aforesaid, before the same is given, ﬁle his or her afﬁdavit with the
clerk, stating therein the residence of the defendant, if such residence
be known to the plaintifff; and if such residence be unknown to the
plaintifff, such afﬁdavit shall so state; and in case such affidavit state
the residence of the defendant, the clerk shall forward, by mail, to
such defendant the number of the paper containing such notice, with
the notice marked.

SEC. 1049. (1037.) Issue and trial.—-13. The cause shall stand for issue
and trial at the ﬁrst term of the court after the summons has been
personally served upon the defendant ten days, or publication has
been made thirty days, before the ﬁrst day of such term.

SEC. 1050. (1038.) When prosecutor to resist—~26. Whenever a peti
tion for divorce remains undefended, it shall be the duty of the prose'
outing attorney to appear and resist such petition.

SEC. 1051, (1039.) Answer—Proofs required—14. The defendant shall
answer said petition under oath, if required so to do by the petitioner;
but no decree shall be rendered on default without proof, nor shall any
admissions made in said answer be used as evidence in any other case
‘ against said defendant; nor shall the denial under oath, by the defend
ant, of the facts alleged in the petition render necessary any other or
- further proof by the complainant than would have been necessary if
such denial had not been under oath.

SEC. 1052. (1040.) Cross-petition and proceedings thereon—15. In ad
dition to an answer, the defendant may ﬁle a cross-petition for divorce;
and when ﬁled, the court shall decree the divorce to the party legally
entitled thereto. If the original petition be dismissed after the ﬁling
of the cross-petition, the defendant may proceed to the trial of the
cross-petition without further notice to the adverse party; and the case
upon such cross-petition shall in all things be governed by the same
rules applicable'to a case on an original petition.

SEC. 1053. (1041.) Witnesses—Depositions.—16. Witnesses may be ex
amined in court, or depositions taken and used as in other civil ac
tions, at the option of the party offering the testimony; but this sec'
tion shall not be construed to authorize the taking of depositions where
the witnesses can be compelled to attend and testify as provided by law
in other cases, unless the judge, for good cause shown, shall otherwise
direct.

SEC. 1054. .( 1042.) Interlocutory orders, how enforced—~17. Pending
a petition for divorce, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may
make, and by attachment enforce, such orders for the disposition of
the persons, property, and children of the parties as may be deemed
right and proper, and such orders relative to the expenses of such suit
as will insure to the wife an efﬁcient preparation of her case and a fair
and impartial trial thereof. And on decrceing a divorce in favor of
the wife or refusing one on the application of the husband, the court
shall, by order to be enforced by attachment, require the husband to
pay all reasonable expenses of the wife in the prosecution or defense
of the petition when such divorce has been granted or refused: Pro
vided, That such orders shall'be made under the same rules and regu
lations, and upon such notice as restraining orders and injunctions are
granted in other civil actions, except that no bond shall be required
of either party.

SEC. 1055. (1043.) Misconduct of husband—Rights as to realty.—18.
A divorce granted for misconduct of the husband shall entitle the wife
to the same rights, so far as her real estate is concerned, that she
would have been entitled to by his death.

SEC. 1056. (1044.) Misconduct of wife—Rights as to realty.—19. A di
vorce decreed on account of the misconduct of the wife shall entitle
the husband to the same rights, so far as his real estate is concerned,
as he would have been entitled to by her death.
SEC. 1057. (1045.) Alimony—20. The court shall make such decree for
alimony, in all cases contemplated by this act, as the circumstances of
the case shall render just and proper; and such decree for alimony,
heretofore made or hereafter made, shall be valid against the husband,
Whether asked for in the petition or given by the judge on default.

SEC. 1058. (1046.) Custody of children—21. The court, in decreeing
a divorce shall make provision for the guardianship, custody, support,
and education of the minor children of such marriage.
SEC. 1059. (1047.) Decree for alimony, how payable—22. The decree
for alimony to the wife shall be for a sum in gross, and not for annual
payments; but the court, in its discretion, may give a reasonable time
for the payment thereof, by installments, on sufﬁcient surety being
given. And in all cases where alimony has been thus given by in
stallments, or may hereafter be given, and the security required shall
not be given within thirty days from the date of such decree, then the
whole amount of such alimony shall become due and payable the same
as if no such installments had been mentioned in the decree.

SEC. 1060. (1048.) Effect of divorce—23. The divorce of one party
shall fully dissolve the marriage contract as to both.
SEC. 1061. (1049.) Divorce granted in another state—24. A divorce
decreed in any other state, by a court having jurisdiction thereof, shall
have full effect in this state.

SEC. 1062. (1050.) Action for pOSseSSion.—671. Any person having a
valid subsisting interest in real property and a right to the possession
thereof may recover the same by action to be brought against the ten
ant in possession; if there is no such tenant, then against the person
claiming the title or some interest therein.

SEC. 1063. (1051.) Landlord, when substituted—Notice.-—67 2. When
ever it appears that the defendant is only a tenant, the landlord may
be substituted, reasonable notice thereof being given.
SEC. 1064. (1052.) Landlord, when bound—684. In an action against
a tenant, the judgment shall be conclusive evidence against the land—
lord who has received notice as hereinbcfore provided.
SEC. 1065. (1053.) Service upon agent, when—673. When the defend
ant is a non-resident, service for the property may be had upon his
agent residing in the state with the like effect as though made upon
the principal, or service may be had by publication, as in other cases.
SEC. 1066. (1054.) Contents of complaint—674. The plaintifff in his
complaint shall state that he is entitled to the possession of the prem—
ises, particularly describing them, the interest he claims therein, and
that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of possession. 

SEC. 1067. (1055-) Answer in dcnial—Ei’fect.——675. The answer of the
defendant may contain a denial of each material statement or allega
tion in the complaint; under which denial, the defendant shall be
permitted to give in evidence every defense to the action that he may
have, either legal or equitable.

SEC. 1068. (1056.) Proof of defendant’s possession, when needless.—
SEC. 676. Where the defendant makes defense, it shall not be necessary to
prove him in possession of the premises.

SEC. 1069. (1057.) Plaintiff must show title.-—685. The plaintiﬂ must
recover on the strength of his own title.

SEC. 1070. (1058.) Use of premises—Recovery for—Limit.--677. The
plaintiﬁ can not recover for the use and occupation of the premises for
more than six years next before the commencement of the action; but
may recover, in the same action,-for use and occupation up to the
time of its termination.

SEC. 1071. (1059.) .When plaintiﬁ recovers damages only—678. If the
interest of the plaintifff expire before the time in which he could be,
put in possession, he shall obtain a judgment for damages only.
SEC. 1072. (1060.) Recovery, separate or joint, according to rights.—679. Where there are two or more plaintifffs or defendants, any one
or more of the plaintifffs may recover against one or more of the defend
ants the premises or any part thereof, or interest therein, or damages
according to the right of the parties; but the recovery shall not be for
a greater interest than that claimed.
SEC. 1073. (1061.) Damages and set-oft—GSS. When the plaintifff, in
an action of this nature, is entitled to damages for withholding or
using or injuring his property, the defendant may set off. the value of
any permanent improvements made thereon to the extent of such
damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the law for the beneﬁt
of occupying claimants.
SEC. 1074. (1062.) Exemplary damages—689. In case of wanton
aggression on the part of a defendant, the jury may award exempmry
damages.
SEC. 1075. ( 1063.) Proof against co-tenant.-—693. In an action by a
tenant in common or joint-tenant of real property against his co~
tenant, the plaintifff must show,‘ in addition to his evidence of right,
that defendant either denied plaintifff’s right or did some act amount
ing to such denial.
SEC. 1076. (1064.) New trial Oi right—Bond.—680. The court ren
dering the judgment, on application made within one year thereafter
by the party against whom judgment is rendered, his heirs, assigns.
or representatives, and on the applicant giving an undertaking, with
surety to be approved by the court or clerk, that he will pay all costs
and damages which shall be recovered against him in the action.
shall vacate the judgment and grant a new trial. The court shall
grant but one new trial under the provisions of this section.

SEC. 1077. (1065.) New trial, after term—681. If the application for
a new trial is made after the close of the term at which the judgment
is rendered, the party obtaining a new trial shall give the opposite
party ten days’ notice thereof before the term next succeeding the
granting of the application.
SEC. 1078. (1066.) Innocent purchasers—682. The result of the new
trial, if application therefore is made after the close of the term at
which the judgment is rendered, shall in no case affect the interest of
third persons, acquired in good faith, for a valuable consideration,
since the former trial.
SEC. 1079. (1067.) Damages, in lieu of lamb—683. But the party who,
on such new trial, shows himself entitled to the lands which have
thus passed to the hands of a purchaser in good faith may recover the
Proper amount'of damages against the other party, either in the same
or in subsequent actions.
SEC. 1080. (1068.) Entry and survey—686. The court, on motion, and
after notice to the opposite party, may, {or cause shown, grant an or
der allowing the party applying therefore to enter upon the property in
controversy, and make survey and measurement thereof for the pur
poses of the action.
SEC. 1081. (1069.) Order and service—687. The order must describe
the property, and a copy thereof must be served upon the owner or per
son having the occupancy and control of the land.
SEC. 1082. (1070.) Action to quiet title.—— 690. An action may be
brought by any person, either in or out of possession, or by one hav
ing an interest in remainder or reversion, against another who claims title to or interest in real property adverse to him, although the de~
fendant may not be in possession thereof, for the purpose of determin
ing and quieting the question of title.

SEC. 1083. (1071.) Quieting title and partition—Rules applicable.—
SEC. 691. The rules above prescribed shall, in such cases, be observed
as far they are applicable; and in partition cases, when the title to
real estate is bona ﬁdc in question, upon the pleadings and evidence
between the parties.
SEC. 1084. (1072.) Disclaimer—Costs—692. If in such cases the de'
fendant disclaim in his answer any interest or estate in the property,
or suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer, the de
fendant shall recover costs.
SEC. 1085. Recording proceedings in recorder’s office—2. Whenever
the title of any real estate is quieted, or a disputed title is settled by
proceedings in court, it shall be the duty of the clerk of such court,
within two years after the ﬁnal hearing of such cause, to cause a certi
ﬁed copy of the judgment and decree of the court to be transferred and
recorded in the recorder’s ofﬁce of the proper county; also to tax and
collect, as part of the cost in the proceedings, a fee for the auditor and
recorder equivalent to their fees for like services in the transfer and
recording of deeds.
SEC. 1086. (1073.) Real party in interest to be plaintifff.—1. Any per
son having a right to recover the possession of real estate, or to quiet title thereto in the name of any other person or persons, shall have a
right to recover possession or quiet title in his own name; and no ac
tion shall be defeated or reversed where it might have been success
fully maintained by the plaintifff, in the name of another, to inure‘to
his benefit: Provided, That the provisions of this act shall not apply
to nor affect pending actions.

SEC. 1087. (1074.) Occupying claimant—694. When an occupant of
land has color of title thereto, and in good faith has made valuable
improvements thereon, and is afterward, in the proper action, found
not to be the rightful owner thereof, no execution shall issue to put
the plaintifff in possession of the property after ﬁling the complaint
hereinafter mentioned, until the provisions of this act are complied
with.
SEC. 1088. ( 1075.) Complaint—Gontents.—-695. The complaint must
set forth the grounds on which the defendant seeks relief, stating,
among other things, as accurately as practicable, the value of the im
provements on the lands as well as the value of the lands aside from
the improvements.
SEC. 1089. (1076.) Issue—Trial—Assessmcut—696. All issues joined
thereon shall be tried as in other cases, and the court or jury trying
the cause shall assess——
First. The value of all lasting improvements made, as aforesaid, 0n
the lands in question previous to the commencement of the action for
the recovery of the lands.
Second. The damages, if any, which the premises may have sus
tained by waste or cultivation to the time of rendering judgment.
Third. The fair value of the rents and proﬁts which may have ac
crued, without the improvements, to the time of rendering judgment.
Fourth. The value of the estate which the successful claimant has
in the premises, without the improvements.
Fifth. The taxes, with interest, paid by the defendant and by those
under whose title he claims.

SEC. 1090. (1077.) Plaintiff’s election—697. The plaintifff in the main
action may thereupon pay the appraised value of the improvements,
and the taxes paid, with interest, deducting the value of the rents and
proﬁts, and the damages sustained as assessed on the trial, and take
the property.

SEC. 1091. (1078.) Defendant’s election—698. Should he fail to do
this, after a reasonable time, to be ﬁxed by the court, the defendant
may take the property, upon paying the appraised value of the land,
aside from the improvements.
SEC. 1092. (1079.) When to be tenants in common—699. If this he
not done within a reasonable time, to be ﬁxed by the court, the parties
will be held to be tenants in common of all the lands, including the
improvements, each holding an interest proportionate to the value of
his property, as ascertained by the appraisement above contemplated.
SEC. 1093. (1080.) Color of title—700. The purchaser in good faith
at any judicial or tax sale, made by the proper person or officer, has
color of title within the meaning of this act, whether such person or
ofﬁcer had sufﬁcient authority to sell or not, unless the want of au
thority was known to the purchaser at the time of the sale; and the
rights of the purchaser shall pass to his assignees or representatives.
SEC. 1094. (1081.) What is color of title—701. Any occupant of land
who can show a connected title in law or equity, derived from the
records of any public office, or who holds the same by purchase or
descent from any person claiming title derived as aforesaid or by deed
duly recorded, has color of title, within the meaning of this act.

SEC. 1095. (1082.) Occupant recovers for lasting improvements—702.
The occupying claimant may recover the value of lasting improve
ments made by the party under whom he claims, as well as those
made by himself; and any person holding the premises as a purchaser,
by an agreement in writing from the party having color of title, shall
be entitled to this remedy.
SEC. 1096. (1083.) Writ of possession—703. The plaintiﬂ shall be entitled to an execution for the possession of his property, in accordance
with the provisions of this act, but not otherwise.
SEC. 1097. (1084.) Defective sales—When no writ of possession—704.
Whenever any land sold by an executor, administrator, guardian,
sheriff, or commissioner of court is afterward recovered, in the proper
action, by any person originally liable, or in whose hands the land
would be liable to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for
whose beneﬁt the land was sold, or any one claiming under such per
son, the plaintifff shall not be entitled after the ﬁling of the complaint
to a writ for the possession, without having paid the amount justly
due, as determined under the provisions of the following section, with
in the time therein stated.

SEC. 1098. (1085.) Adjustment of amount due.—705. The defendants
in the main action, or any of them, may ﬁle their complaint, setting
forth the sale and title under it, and any other matter contemplated in
this act. Proceedings shall then be had, as aforesaid, to determine
the amount of purchase-money paid, with interest, the value of the
lasting improvements, the damages, if any, which the premises have
sustained by waste or cultivation, the value of the rents and proﬁts,
and the taxes paid. If any balance remain due from the plaintifff in
the main action, the court shall fix a reasonable time within which he
shall pay the same, and if it be not paid within that time, the court
shall order the lands to be sold without relief from valuation or ap
praisement laws. In case of sale, there shall be paid the costs of the
proceedings and the amount due the defendant, with interest, and the
surplus, if any, shall be paid to the plaintifff.


SEC. 1099. (1086.) Possession of premises.--1. Unlessa mortgage spe
cially provide that the mortgagee shall have possession of the mort
gaged premises, he shall not be entitled to the same.

SEC. 1100. ( 1087.) How construed—Remedy.—2. No mortgage shall
be construed as implying a covenant for the payment of the sum in
tended to be secured, so as to enable the mortgagee, his assignees, or
1 representatives to maintain an action for the recovery of such sum;
and where there is no express covenant contained in the mortgage for
such payment, and no bond or other separate instrument to secure
such payment shall have been given, the remedies of the mortgagee
shall be conﬁned to the lands mentioned in the mortgage.
SEC. 1101. (1088.) Foreclosure before sale—3. No mortgage of real
estate, or instrument operating as or having the legal effect of a mort- ’
gage, hereafter executed, shall authorize the mortgagee to sell the
mortgaged premises, but every such sale shall be made under a ju—
dicial proceeding.
SEC. 1102. (1089.) Purchase-money—Priority.-—4. A mortgage granted
by a purchaser to secure purchase-money shall have preference over a
prior judgment against such purchaser.

SEC. 1103. (1090.) Entry of satisfaction—Effect.—-5. .Every mortgagee
~, , of lands whose mortgage has been recorded, having received full pay
“, ment of the sum or sums of money, therein speciﬁed, from the mort
§‘ gagor, shall, at the request of such mortgagor, enter satisfaction on
the margin or other proper place in the record of such mortgage,
which shall operate as a complete release and discharge thereof,

SEC. 1104. (1091.) Certiﬁcate of satisfaction—Record.—6. Where such
mortgage has been paid and satisﬁed by the mortgagor, he may take
a certiﬁcate thereof, duly acknowledged by the mortgagee or his law
ful agent, as herein required for the acknowledgment of conveyances,
to entitle the same to be recorded; which certiﬁcate and acknowledg
ment shall be recorded by the recorder in whose ofﬁce such mortgage
is recorded, with a. reference to the book and page containing the rec
ord of the mortgage aforesaid; and such recorded certiﬁcate shall for
ever discharge and release the mortgagor from such mortgage, and for
‘_\ ever bar all suits and actions thereon.

SEC. 1105. Refusal to satisfy—Penalty.—1. That any person being the
owner or holder of any mortgage recorded in the state of Indiana, 01'
the ofﬁcer of any bank, loan association or other corporation, being
the owner'or holder of any mortgage so recorded, or any administra
tor, executor, guardian, trustee or other person whose duty it shall be
to release any mortgage so recorded, who shall refuse, neglect or fail
to release such mortgage of record when the debt or obligation which
such mortgage was made to secure shall have been paid or discharged,
and he shall have been requested to release the same, shall forfeit and
pay to the mortgagor or person having the right to demand the release
of such mortgage, the sum of twenty-ﬁve dollars ($25), which sum
may be recovered by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction, to
gether with reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in the collection of
said penalty. 

SEC. 1106. (1092.) Foreclosures by state—8. Nothing in this act shall
affect any provisions made by law in relation to the foreclosureof mort
gages to the state of Indiana, so far as the same conﬂict with the pro
visions of this act.

SEC. 1107. (1093.) Assignments, 110W made—7. Any mortgage of rec
ord, or any part thereof, may be assigned by the mortgagee, or any
assignee thereof, either by an assignment entered on the margin of
such record, signed by the person making the assignment and attested
by the recorder, or by a separate instrument executed and acknowl
edged before any person authorized to take acknowledgments, and re
corded on such margin, or in the mortgage records of the county, in
which case such assignment Shall be noted in such margin by the re—
corder, by reference to the book and page where such assignment is
recorded. And after such entry is made of record, the mortgagor and
all other persons shall be bound thereby, and the same shall be deemed
a public record._ And any assignee or his personal representative may
enter satisfaction or release of the mortgage, or the part thereof held
by him of record as aforesaid.

SEC. 1108. (1094.) Parties—Eﬁect of sale—Redemption.-—2. And in
a suit to foreclose said mortgage, it shall be sufﬁcient to make the
mortgagee, or the assignee shown by said record to hold an interest
therein, defendants. And all persons failing to cause assignments to
them to be made or put of record in the manner aforesaid, unless they
cause themselves to be made parties pending the action, shall be
bound by such decree as may be rendered, the same as if they had
been parties to the suit. And any purchaser at judicial sale of the
mortgaged premises, or any part thereof, under such decree, or claim
ing title under the same, buying without actual notice of any assign
ment not thus of record, or of the transfer of any note, the holder
whereof was not a party to the action, shall hold the said premises, so
purchased, free and discharged of such lien: Provided, however, That
any assignee or transferee may redeem said premises, like any other
creditor, during the period of one year allowed by statute after such
sales.

SEC. 1109. (1095.) Foreclosure—712. When default is made in the
performance of any condition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee
or his assigns may proceed, in the circuit court of the county Where
the land lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the
mortgage.

SEC. 1110. (1096.) When remedy conﬁned to mortgage property—713.
\Vhen there is no express agreement in the mortgage, nor any separate
instrument given for the payment of the sum secured thereby, the
remedy of the mortgagee shall be conﬁned to the property mortgaged.

SEC. 1111. (1097.) Personal judgment—Order of sale—714. In render
ing judgment of foreclosure, the court shall give personal judgment
against any party to the suit liable upon any agreement or agreements,
for the payment of any sum or sums of money secured by the mortgage,
and shall order the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the mortgage and judgment and costs of the action,
to be ﬁrst sold, before levy of execution upon other property of the de
fendant. The payment of the mortgage debt, with interest and costs,
at any time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.

SEC. 1112. (1098.) Clerk to enter satisfaction—Fees.~—715. Upon the
foreclosure of any mortgage in the circuit court of 9.] 1y county in this
state, and upon the payment and satisfaction of such judgment as
may be rendered in such proceedings in foreclosure, in said court, the
clerk thereof shall immediately thereafter enter satisfaction of said
mortgage on the records of the recorder’s ofﬁce of such county, ifthe
same shall have been recorded: Provided, That the record in foreclos
ure and satisfaction thereof shall show that the whole debt secured by
such mortgage has been paid. Such clerk shall tax a fee of forty
cents in each case of foreclosure requiring satisfaction, which shall be
paid as other costs in such cases; twenty cents of which he shall pay
to the recorder for his services, retaining twenty cents for his own
services.

SEC. 1113. (1099-) Order of sale—716. When there is an express writ
ten agreement for the payment of the sum of money secured contained
in the mortgage or any separate instrument, the court shall direct, in
the order of sale, that the balance due on the mortgage, and costs
which may remain unsatisfied after the sale of the mortgaged premises,
shall be levied of any property of the mortgage-debtor.

SEC. 1114. (1100.) Copy of order, how issued—Sale.—-717. The copy
of the order of sale and judgment shall be issued and certiﬁed by the
clerk, under the seal of the court, to the sheriff, who shall thereupon
proceed to sell the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, interest, and costs, as upon execu
tion; and if any part of the judgment, interest, and costs remain un
satisﬁed, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy the residue of the
other property of the defendant.
SEC. 1115. ( 1101.) When can not foreclose—718. The plaintifff shall
not proceed to foreclose his mortgage while he is prosecuting any
other action for the same debt or matter which is secured by the mort
gage, or while he is seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in
such other action; nor shall he prosecute any other action for the same
matter, while he is foreclosing his mortgage or prosecuting a judg
ment Of foreclosure. 


SEC. 1116. (1102.) lnstallments not due—Proceedings—UQ. When
ever a complaint is ﬁled for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which
there shall be due any interest, or installment of the principal, and
there are other installments not due, if the defendant pay into court
the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before ﬁnal
judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed; it such payment 'be made
after ﬁnal judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be
enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment
of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due. In the ﬁnal judg
ment, the court shall direct at what time and upon what default any
subsequent execution shall issue.

SEC. 1116. (1102.) lnstallments not due—Proceedings—UQ. When
ever a complaint is ﬁled for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which
there shall be due any interest, or installment of the principal, and
there are other installments not due, if the defendant pay into court
the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before ﬁnal
judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed; it such payment 'be made
after ﬁnal judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be
enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment
of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due. In the ﬁnal judg
ment, the court shall direct at what time and upon what default any
subsequent execution shall issue.

SEC. 1118. (1104.) Whole to be sold, when—721. If the mortgaged
premises can not be sold in parcels, the court shall order the whole it
be sold; and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied, ﬁrst to the pa)
ment of the principal due, interest, and costs, and then to the residue
secured by the mortgage, and not due. And if the residue do not bear
interest, a deduction shall be made therefrom, by discounting the legal
interest. And in all cases where the proceeds of sale shall be more
than sufﬁcient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage-debtor, his heirs or assigns.

SEC. 1119. (1105.) Plaintiﬁ’s indorsement on execution—722. When
ever an execution shall issue upon a judgment recovered for a debt se
cured by mortgage of real property, the plaintifff shall indorse thereon
a brief description of the mortgaged premises; and the equity of re
demption shall in no case be sold on such execution.

SEC. 1120. (1106.) Who may have writ—778. Every person restrained
of his liberty, under any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of
habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of the restraint, and shall be
delivered therefrom when illegal.

SEC. 1121. (1107.) Parents, etc., may hays writ—802. Writs of habeas
corpus shall be granted in favor of parents, guardians, masters, and
husbands, and to enforce the rights and for the protection of infants
and insane persons; and the proceedings shall, in all such cases, con
form to the provisions of this statute.

SEC. 1122. (1108.) Complaint—779. Application for the writ shall be
made by complaint, signed and veriﬁed either by the plaintifff or by
some person in his behalf, and shall specify
First. By whom the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for
is restrained of his liberty; and the place where; naming all the par
ties if they are known, or describing them if they are not known.
Second. The cause or pretense of the restraint, according to the best
of the knowledge and belief of the applicant.
Third. If the restraint be alleged, to be illegal, in what the illegality
consists.

SEC. 1123. (1109.) By Whom granted—780. Writs of habeas corpus'
maybe granted by'the circuit or superior courts of the county in which
the person applying therefore may be restrained of his or her liberty,
or by the judges of said courts,- whether in term or vacation; or if said
judges be absent from their circuits, or by reason of sickness or other
cause be unable or incompetent to hear and determine the same, then
by any such judge-of any adjoining circuit, and upon application, the
writ shall be granted without delay.

SEC. 1124. (1110.) When by criminal judges—781. The criminal court
judges of this state shall have full power to issue writs of habcas corpus
within their respective counties, and hear and determine the same in
favor of all persons arrested and held upon any charge of violation of
the criminal laws of this state, and admit to bail or discharge the
prisoner, in the same manner and to the same extent, and under the
same rules and regulations, as judges of the circuit courts are now .
authorized by law to do, and not otherwise, nor to any greater extent.
SEC. 1125. (1111.) To whom directed—Its command—782. The writ
shall be directed to the ofﬁcer or party having the person under re
straint, commanding him to have such person before the court or
judge, at such time and place as the court or judge shall direct, to do
and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and
there the writ.

SEC. 1126. (1112.) To sheriff, clerk shall deliver.——783. If the writ be
directed to the sheriff, it shall be delivered, by the clerk, to him with
out delay.
SEC. 1127. (1113.) To other person, sheriff shall deliver.—784. If the
writ be directed to any other person, it shall be delivered to the sheriff,
and shall be by him served by delivering the same to such person
without delay.
SEC. 1128. (1114.) Service, when by leaving it.-785. If the person to
whom such writ is directed can not be found, or shall refuse admit—
tance to the sheriff, the same may be served by leaving it at the resi
dence of the person to whom it is directed, or by afﬁxing the same on
some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling-house or where the
party is conﬁned or under restraint.

SEC. 1129. (1115.) Return—Attachment for refusal—786. The sheriff
or other person to whom the writ is directed shall make immediate
return thereof; and if he refuse, after due service, to make return, the
court shall enforce obedience by attachment.
SEC. 1130. (1116.) Return, how milder—787. The return must be
signed and veriﬁed by the person making it, who shall state:
First. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party in his
‘ custody.
Second. If the authority be in Writing, he shall return a copy and
produce the original on the hearing. .
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or under his restraint,
and has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time,
place, and cause of his transfer. He shall produce the party on the
hearing, unless prevented by sickness or inﬁrmity; which must be
shOWn in the return.

SEC. 1131. (1117.) Proceedings—Pleadings.—788. The court or judge,
if satisﬁed of the truth of the allegation of sickness or inﬁrmity, may
proceed to decide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned until
the party can be produced or for other good cause. The plaintifff may
except to the sufﬁciency of, or controvert, the return or any part there
of, or allege any new matter in avoidance; the new matter shall be
veriﬁed,- except in cases of commitment on a criminal charge. The
return and pleadings may be amended without causing any delay.

SEC. 1132. (1118.) Hearing—Party, when discharged—789. The court
or judge shall thereupon proceed, in a summary way, to hear and (19'
termine the cause; and if no legal cause be shown for the restraint or
for the continuation thereof shall discharge the party.
SEC. 1133. (1119.) Judgment, etc., when not questioned—790. N0
court or judge shall inquire into the legality of any judgment or pro
cess whereby the party is in his custody, or discharge him when the
term of commitment has not expired, in either of the cases following:
First. Upon process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, where the court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction.
Second. Upon any process issued on any ﬁnal judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
Third. For any contempt of any court, ofﬁcer, or body having authori
ty to commit; but an order of commitment, as for contempt, upon pro
ceedings to enforce the remedy of a party, is not included in any of
the foregoing speciﬁcations. ‘
Fourth. Upon a warrant issued from the circuit court upon an in
dictment or information.

SEC. 1134. (1120.) When no discharge—Proceedings.—791. No person
shall be discharged from an order of commitment issued by any judi
cial or peace ofﬁcer, for want of bail or in cases not bailable, on ac
count oi any defect in the charge or process, or for alleged want of
probable cause; but in all such cases the court or judge shall summon
the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, discharge,
let to bail, or recommit the prisoner, as may be just and legal, and
recognize witnesses when proper.

SEC. 1135. (1121.) Writ, to let to bail.—792. The writ may be had for
the purpose of letting a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions.

SEC. 1136. (1122.) N0tice.—-793. When any person has an interest in
the detention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person
having such interest is notiﬁed. '
SEC. 1137. (1128.) Powers of courtorjudge.—794. The court or judge
shall have power to require and compel the attendance of witnesses,
and to do all other acts necessary to determine the case.
SEC. 1138. (1124.) Officer not liable for 0beying.—-795. No sheriff or
other ofﬁcer shall be liable to a civil action for obeying any writ of
habeas corpus or order of discharge made thereon.
SEC. 1139. (1125.) Warrant to prevent removal.—-796. Whenever it
shall appear by afﬁdavit that any one is illegally held in custody or
restraint, and that there is good reason to believe that such person
will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the court or judge before
whom the application is made, or will suffer some irreparable injury
before compliance with the writ can be enforced, such court or judge
may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting the facts, and directed to
the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to take
the person thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him
before the court or judge, to be dealt with according to law.
SEC. 1140. (1126.) Warrant.—797. The court or judge may also, if
the same be deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for
the apprehension of the person charged with causing the illegal re
straint. y
SEC. 1141. (1127.) Service and proceedings—798. The ofﬁcer shall
execute the writ by bringing the person therein named before the
court or judge, and the like return and proceedings shall be required
and had as in case of writs of habeas corpus.
SEC. 1142. (1128.) Temporary orders—799. The court or judge may
make any temporary orders in the cause or disposition of the party,
during the progress of the proceedings, that justice may require. The
custody of any party restrained may be changed from one person to
another by order of the court or judge.
SEC. 1143. (1129-) Issue On Sunday, when.—800. Any writ or process
authorized by this article may be issued and served, in cases 07
emergency, on Sunday.

SEC. 1144. (1130.) Writ—Amendments and commitments—801. All
writs and other process, authorized by the provisions of this article,
shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and, except summonses,
sealed with the seal of such court; and shall be served and returned
forthwith, unless the court or judge shall specify a particular time for
any such return. And no writ or other process shall be disregarded for
any defect therein, if enough is shown to notify the officer or person
of the purport of the process. Amendments may be allowed and
temporary commitments, when necessary.

SEC. 1145. (1131.) When ﬁled—814. An information may be ﬁled
against any person or corporation in the following cases:
First. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office or any franchise within this state
or any ofﬁce in any corporation created by the authority of this state.
Second. Whenever any public ofﬁcer shall have done or suffered any
act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his
ofﬁce. 
Third. Where any association or number of persons shall act, with
in this State, as a corporation, without being legally incorporated.
Fourth. Or where any corporations do or omit acts which amountto
a surrender or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corpora
tion, or when they exercise powers not conferred by law.
SEC. 1146. (1132.) By whom ﬁled—815. The information may be ﬁled
by the prosecuting attorney in the circuit court of the proper county,
upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to do 80, 01‘
shall be directed by the court or other competent authority, or by any
other person on his own relation, whenever he claims an interest in
PM“ the ofﬁce, franchise, or corporation which is the subject of the infor
_ mation.

SEC. 1147. (1133.) Of what to consist—816. The information shall
consist of a plain statement of the facts which constitute the grounds
of the proceeding, addressed to the court.

SEC. 1148. (1134.) For usurping office—817. Whenever an informa
n tion shall be ﬁled against a person for usurping an office, by the pros—
nil!” ecuting attorney, he shall also set forth therein the name of the per
A son rightfully entitled to the office, with an averment of his right
thereto; and when ﬁled by any other person, he shall show his inter
W‘ est in the matter; and he may claim the damages he has sustained.

SEC. 1149. (1135. )' Summons and proceedings—818. Whenever an in
Slifl formation is ﬁled, a summons shall issue thereon; which shall be
{le served and returned as in other actions. The defendant shall appear
and answer, or suﬁer default, and subsequent proceedings be had as
in other cases.

SEC. 1150. (1136.) Contest for office—Judgment—Slﬂ. In every case
contesting the right to an office, judgment shall be rendered upon the
rights of the parties and for damages the relator may show himself
entitled to, if any, to the time of the judgment.

SEC. 1151. (1137.) Judgment for relator.—820. If judgment be ren
dered in favor of the relator, he shall proceed to exercise the functions
of the office, after he has been qualiﬁed as required by law; and the
court shall order the defendant to deliver over all the books and pa
pers in his custody or within his power, belonging to the office from
which he shall have been ousted.

SEC. 1152. (1138.) Order, how enforced—821. If the defendant shall
refuse or neglect to deliver over the books and papers, pursuant to the'
order, the court, or judge thereof, shall enforce the order by attach
ment and imprisonment.
SEC. 1153. (1139.) Damages.'-—822. When the judgment is rendered in
favor of the plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in
the information, have his action for the damages at any time within
one year after the judgment. .
SEC. 1154. (1140-) One information against several.-—823. When sev
eral persons claim to be entitled to the same office or franchise, one
information may be ﬁled against any or all such persons in order to
try their respective rights to the ofﬁce or franchise.
SEC. 1155. (1141.) Judgment of ouster 0r forfeiture—824. Whenever
any person shall be found guilty of any usurpation of, or intrusion
into, or unlawfully exercising any ofﬁce or any franchise within this
state, or any ofﬁce in any corporation created by the authority of this
state; or when any public ofﬁcer, thus charged, shall be found guilty
of having done or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law,
shall work a forfeiture of his ofﬁce; or when any association or num
ber of persons shall be found guilty of having acted as a corporation,
without having been legally incorporated, the court shall give judg
ment of ouster against the defendant, and exclude him from the ofﬁce,
franchise, or corporate rights (and in cases of corporations, that the
same shall be dissolved), and the court shall adjudge costs in favor of
the plaintifff. 
SEC. 1156. (1142.) Judgment against corporation—825. If judgment
be rendered against any corporation, or against any persons claiming
to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs to be collected by
execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation, or by at
tachment against the irectors or other officers of the corporation; and
shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and
effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof among the
creditors. The prosecuting attorney shall immediately institute pro
ceedings for that purpose.
SEC. 1157. (1143.) To recover escheated property—826. Whenever
any property shall escheat or be forfeited to the state for its use, the
legal title shall be deemed to be in the state from the time of the
escheat or forfeiture; and an information may be ﬁled by the prosecut
ing attorney in the circuit court for the recovery of the property, al
leging the ground on which the recovery is claimed; and like proceed
ings and judgment shall be had as in a civil action for the recovery of
property.

SEC. 1158. (1144.) Costa—827. When an information is ﬁled by the
prosecuting attorney, he shall not be liable for costs; but when it is
ﬁled upon the relation of a private person, he shall be liable for costs,
unless the same are adjudged against the defendant.

SEC. 1159. (1145.) T0 annul instrument—828. An information may
be prosecuted for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters
patent, certiﬁcate, or deed granted by the proper authorities of this
state, when there is reason to believe that the same were obtained by
fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of a material fact, or when the
patentee or those claiming under him have done or omitted an act in
violation of the terms on which the letters, deed, or certiﬁcate was
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.

SEC. 160. (1146.) Proceedings t0 annul.—-829. In such cases, the in
formation may be ﬁled by the prosecuting attorney, upon his relation,
or by any private person, upon his relation, showing his interest in
the subject-matter; and the subsequent proceeding, judgment of the
court, and awarding of costs shall conform to the above provisions,
and such letters-patent, deed, or certiﬁcate shall be annulled or sus
tained according to the right of the case.

SEC. 1161. (1147.) Who may grant.——177. Restraining orders and in
junctions may be granted by the supreme court in term time, when
necessary and proper for the due exercise of the jurisdiction and
powers of such court, or by any judge thereof in vacation or recess,
and by the circuit courts in their respective counties in term time, or
by the judges thereof in vacation, or by a master commissioner, as
provided for in section four hundred and nineteen H1404], and the
said courts in term time, or the judges thereof in vacation, or a mas
ter commissioner, as provided for in aforesaid section, may, in any
county of the circuit, issue restraining orders or injunctions to operate
in any other county in the circuit.

SEC. 1162. (1148.) Proceedings to obtain—178. When it appears by
“the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and
‘the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission
or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which,
during the litigation, would produce great injury to the plaintifff, 01‘
when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, 01‘
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering some act to
be done, in violation of the plaintifff’s rights, respecting the subject of
the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual; or when
such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings
upon any ﬁnal order or judgment,-—an injunction may be granted to
restrain such act or proceedings until the further order of the court;
‘ which may, afterward, be modiﬁed upon motion. And when it ap
pears in the complaint at the commencement of the action, or during
the pendency thereof by afﬁdavit, that the defendant threatens or is
about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud his
creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain the re—
moval or disposition of his property.

SEC. 1163. (1149.) Application to be veriﬁed-179. In all applications
for an injunction, the complaint, or so much thereof as pertains to the
acts or proceedings to be enjoined, shall be veriﬁed by afﬁdavit. The
injunction may be granted at the time of commencing the action, 01‘
at any time afterward before judgment in that proceeding.

SEC. 1164. (1150.) Notice necessary, unless emergency—180. No in
junction shall be granted until it shall appear to the court or judge
granting it that some one or more of the opposite party concerned has
had reasonable notice of the time and place of making the application;
except that in cases of emergency, to be shown in the complaint, the
court may grant a restraining order until notice can be given and
hearing thereon.

SEC. 1165. (1151.) Affidavits may be read—181. On the hearing of
an application for a restraining order or temporary injunction, each
party may read afﬁdavits or documentary or record evidence.

SEC. 1166. (1152.) Terms and conditions—182. Upon the granting or
continuing of an injunction, such terms and conditions may be im
posed upon the party obtaining it as may be deemed equitable.
SEC. 1167. (1153.) Bond—183. No injunction or restraining order
shall be granted until the party asking it shall enter into a written
undertaking, with surety to be approved by the court or judge, to the
adverse party affected thereby, for the payment of all damages and
costs which may accrue by reason of the injunction or restraining
order.

SEC. 1168. (1154.) Second bond unnecessary—Exception.—184. When
an injunction is granted upon the hearing, after a temporary restrain
ing order, the plaintifff shall not be required to enter into a second
written undertaking, unless the former shall be deemed insufﬁcient,
but the plaintifff and his surety shall remain liable upon the original
undertaking.
SEC. 1169. (1155.) Copy of order a suﬁicient writ—185. It shall not
be necessary to issue a writ of injunction, but the clerk shall issue a
copy of the order of injunction, duly certiﬁed by him; which shall be
forthwith served by delivering the same to the adverse party.

SEC. 1170. (1156.) Stay of judgment—Release of errors—186. In ap
plications to stay proceedings after judgment, the plaintifff shall indorse
upon his complaint a release of errors in the judgment whenever re
quired to do so by the judge or court.

SEC. 1171. (1157.) -When and whom binds.—187. An order of injunc
tion shall bind every person and ofﬁcer restrained, from the time he
is informed thereof.

SEC. 1172- (1158-) Notice oi.—-188. \Vhen notice of the application
for an injunction has been given to the adverse party, it shall not be
necessary to serve the order upon him, but he shall be bound by the
injunction as soon as the written undertaking required of the plaintifff
is executed and delivered to the proper Ofﬁcer,
SEC. 1173. (1159.) Money on judgment injoined, paid to clerk—~18?
Money collected upon a judgment afterward injoined, remaining in
the hands of the collecting ofﬁcer, shall be paid to the clerk of the
court granting the injunction, subject to the order of the court.
SEC. 1174. (1160.) Order disobeyed, contempt—190. Whenever it
shall appear to any court granting an order of injunction, or judge
thereof in vacation, by afﬁdavit, that any person has willfully dis
obeyed the order, after notice thereof, such court or judge shall award
an attachment for contempt against the party charged or a rule to
show cause why it should not issue. The attachment or rule shall be
issued by the clerk of the court, and directed to the sheriﬁ, and shall
be served by him.

SEC. 1175; ( 1161.) Service of attachment—Action of court.—191. The
attachment for contempt shall be immediately served by arresting the
party charged, and bringing him into court, if in session, to be dealt
with as in other cases of contempt; and the court shall also take all
necessary measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff against dam
ages in the premises.
SEC. 1176. (1162.) Bond of party—192. If the court be not in session,
the ofﬁcer making the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a
written undertaking, with surety to be approved by the ofﬁcer, per
sonally to appear in open court, on the ﬁrst day of the next term
thereof, to answer such contempt, and that he.will pay to the plaintifff
all his damages and costs occasioned by the breach of the order; and
,in default thereof he shall be committed to the jail of the county, until
he shall enter into such written undcrtaking with surety, or be other
wise legally discharged.
SEC. 1177. (1163.) Motion to dissolve or modify—193. Motions to dis
solve or modify injunctions may be made in open court, at any time
after the adverse party has had reasonable notice

SEC. 1178. (1164.) Damages 0n dissolving—194. When an injunction
to stay proceedings after judgment for debt or damages shall be dis
solved, the court shall award such damages, not exceeding ten per
cent. on the judgment, as the court may deem right, against the party
in whose favor the injunction issued.

SEC. 1179. (1165.) Damages include rents and waste—195. If an in
junction to stay proceedings after verdict or judgment in an action
for the recovery of real estate or the possession thereof be dissolved,
the damages assessed against the party obtaining the injunction shall
include the reasonable rents and proﬁts of the land recovered, and all
waste committed after granting the injunction.
SEC. 1180, (1166.) Motion to reinstate.— 196. Upon an order being
made dissolving or modifying an order of injunction, the plaintiﬁ may
move the court to reinstate the order, and the court may, in its dis—
cretion, allow the motion, and appoint a time for hearing the same be
fore the court, or a time and place for hearing before some judge there
of; and upon the hearing, the parties may produce such additional
affidavits or depositions as the court shall direct, and the order of in
junction shall be dissolved, modiﬁed, or reinstated as the court or
judge may deem right. Until the hearing of the motion to reinstate
the order of injunction, the order to dissolve or modify it shall be sus
pended.

SEC. 1181. (1167.) What courts issue—803. Writs of mandate and
prohibition may issue from the supreme and circuit courts of this
state, but such writs shall issue from the supreme court only when
necessary for the exercise of its functions and powers.
SEC. 1182. (1168.) To whom, and for what purpose—804. Writs of
mandate may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board,
or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law specially
enjoins, or a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station.

SEC. 1183. (1169.) Application—Neglect to return—805. The writ
shall be issued upon afﬁdavit and motion, and shall be attested and
sealed, and made returnable as the court shall direct; and the person,
body, or tribunal to whom the same shall be directed and delivered,
shall make return; and for neglect to do so shall be proceeded against
as for a contempt.

SEC. 1184. ( 1170.) Writ, alternative or peremptory—806. The ﬁrst
writ shall be in the alternative or peremptory, as the court shall direct.
SEC. 1135. (1171.) Issues—Proceedings.—807. Whenever a return
shall be made to any such writ, issues of law and fact may be joined;
and like proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues and rendering
judgment as in civil actions.

SEC. 1186. (1172.) Damages—Pereniptory writ—808. In case a ver
dict shall be found for the plaintifff where the writ is in the alterna
tive, or if judgment be given for him, he shall recover damages as in
an action for a false return against the party making the return, and
a peremptory writ shall be granted without delay.
SEC. 1187. (1173.) Power Of court—809. The court shall have the
same power to enlarge the time of making a return and pleading to
such writ, and for ﬁling any subsequent pleadings, and to continue
such cause, as in civil actions.
SEC. 1188. (1174.) Obedience, how enforced—810. Obedience to such
writs may be enforced by attachment, and fine or imprisonment, or both.
SEC. 1189. (1175.) Writ of prohibition—811. The writ of prohibition
shall command the court and party to whom it shall be directed to
refrain from any further proceedings in the matter therein speciﬁed
until the return of the writ and the further order of the court thereon,
and upon the return, to show cause why they shall not be absolutely
restrained from any further proceedings in the matter.

SEC. 1190. (1176.) Judgment in prohibition.-—812. The court shall
render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the
court and party from proceeding in the matter, do issue, or authoriz
ing the court and party to proceed in the matter in question.
SEC. 1191. (1177.) Costa—813. Costs shall be awarded in these pro
ceedings as in civil actions.

SEC. 1192. (1178.) Affidavit—7 28. Actions may be commenced upon
any agreement in writing, before the time for the performance of the
contract expires, when the plaintifff or his agent shall make and ﬁle
an afﬁdavit with the clerk of the proper court, that the defendant is
about to leave the state without performing or making provisions for
the performance of the contract, taking with him property, monies,
credits, or effects subject to execution, with intent to defraud the
plaintiﬁ.

SEC. 1193. (1179.) Bond—Order 0f arrest—729. Upon such afﬁdavit
being ﬁled, the clerk shall issue an order of arrest and hail, directed
to the sheriff, which shall be issued, served, and returned in all re
spects as such ’orders in other cases. Before such order shall issue,
the plaintifff shall ﬁle in the office of the clerk a written undertaking,
with sufficient surety to be approved by the clerk, to the effect that
the plaintifff will pay the defendant such damages and costsas he shall
wrongfully sustain by occasion of the suit.
SEC. 194. (1180.) Recognizance—Commitment.—730. The sheriff shall
require the defendant to enter into a recognizance of special bail, with
sufﬁcient surety, per‘Sonally to appear on the ﬁrst day of the court, at
its next term, and abide the order of the court; and in default thereof,
the defendant shall be committed to prison until discharged in due
course of law. Such special bail shall be liable for the principal, and
shall have a right to arrest and deliver him up as in other cases; and
the defendant may give other bail.
SEC. 1195. (1181.) When discharged—731. Instead of giving special
bail, as above provided, the defendant shall be entitled to his discharge
from custody, if he will secure the performance of the contract to the
satisfaction of the court.
SEC. 1196. (1182.) Who may have writ—732. This proceeding may be
had in favor of any surety or other person jointly bound with the de
fendant. It may also be prosecuted by the person in whose favor the
contract exists against any one or more of the persons bound thereby,
upon ﬁling such affidavit, when the co-contractors are non-residents 0!
probably insolvent, or at the request of any one of them, when they
are residents and solvent.

SEC. 1197. (1183.) Habeas corpus—733. The defendant may have the
same remedy by writ of habeas corpus as in other cases of arrest and
bail.
SEC. 1198. (1184.) Before justices.—734. The proceedings may be had
before justices of the peace in all cases within their jurisdiction.
SEC. 1199. (1185.) Jurisdiction—735. The afﬁdavit and written under
taking may be ﬁled, and proceedings had in any county where the de
fendant may be found

SEC. 1200. (1186-) Who may compe1.—l. Any person holding lands
as joint-tenant or tenant in common, whether in his own right or as
executor or trustee, may compel partition thereof in the manner pro
vided in this act. An administrator or executor may also compel par
tition as a tenant in common or joint-tenant may do, whenever, in
the discharge of his duties as such, it shall be necessary for him to sell
the estate of the decedent therein.

SEC. 1201. (1187.) Petiti0n—Contents—Jurisdiction.—2. Any such
tenant may apply to the circuit court, or court having probate juris
diction of the county in which the lands or any part thereof may lie,
by petition, setting forth a description of the premises and the rights
and titles therein of the parties interested.

SEC. 1202. (1188-) PrOOBedings as in civil cases—5. The proceedings,
practice, and pleadings shal be the same as in civil suits, except as
otherwise provided in this act.

SEC. 1203. (1189.) Interlocntory judgment—Sale when—9. If upon
trial of any issue, or upon default, or by consent of parties, it shall
appear that partition ought to be made, the court shall award an in
terlocutory judgment that partition be made to parties who may desire
the same, specifying therein the share assigned to each, and taking
into consideration advancements to heirs of a person dying intestate;
and the residue of the premises shall remain for the persons entitled
thereto, subject to a future partition. But if upon trial of any issue,
or upon default, or by confession or consent of parties, it shall appear
that the lands of which partition is demanded, can not be divided
without damage to the owners, then, and in that case, the court in its
discretion may order the whole or any such part of the premises to be
sold, as provided for in section eighteen of this act [§ 1199].

SEC. 1204. (1190.) Testator’s intention governs—10. Such court shall
not order or afﬁrm partition of any real estate contrary to the intention
of a testator, expressed in his will.
SEC. 1205. (1191.) Commissioners—11. Upon judgment of partition,
the court shall appoint three disinterested resident freeholders of the
county in which such court is held,'n0t of kin to any of the parties,
who shall make partition of such lands, in pursuance of the judgment
of the court.
SEC. 1206. (1192.) Oath—12. Before proceeding to discharge their
duties, such commissioners shall take an oath faithfully to perform
the duties of their trust, which oath, if taken in open court, shall be
entered in their order-book, and, if not, shall be indorsed on the war
rant issued to them to make such partition.
SEC. 1207. (1193.) Shares, when set oﬁ together.—13. Two or more
ersons may, if they choose, have their shares set off together.
SEC. 1208. (1194.) Guardians act for wards—14. In all proceedings
under this act, guardians may act for their wards as their wards might
have acted, being of age.
SEC. 1209. (1195.) Minors, parties—Commissioners may plat into lots.
' -—1. In all cases where proceedings are now pending or may hereaf
ter be commenced in any of the courts of this state, for the partition
of real estate in which any minor is a party in interest, the commis
sioners appointed to make such partition are hereby ahthorized t0 181'
‘ off into lots or out-lots, streets, and alleys any lands included in well
partition, and to make a plat thereof, which shall be reported to the
court for approval or rejection. If conﬁrmed by the court, such {111*t
shall be acknowledged by such commissioners in open court, and 511111
be recorded as other plats of like nature are recorded, and shall have
the same validity in law as if made by a legal proprietor of such lands,
of full age. It shall be the duty of the court to determine, in such
cases, upon the return of such plats by said commissioners, whether
it will be for the interest of the parties that such land should be laid
off into lots or out-lots, streets, and alloys; and if so, then partition
may be made thereof by said commissioners as in other cases, if prac
ticable, without detriment to the parties interested; and if the same
shall not be susceptible of partition, then said lots or out~lots may be
sold by order of the court, as in other cases.

SEC. 1210. (1196.) Report, how made—15. The commissioners shall
make to the court, and acknowledge in open court, their report, or
shall sign and swear to their report before some person authorized to
administer oaths; which report shall specify, by divisions or lots, or
metes and bounds, or by plats, the shares assigned to each party.
SEC. 1211. (1197.) Conﬁrmation—Judgment.—16. Such report, if con
ﬁrmed by the court, shall be spread upon the order—book, and judg
ment of partition be rendered accordingly.
SEC. 1212. (1198.) Report, how set aside—New commissioners—17.
The court, before conﬁrmation, may set aside such return for good
cause shown, and commit the duty of partition anew to the same or
other commissioners, to be appointed and qualiﬁed as aforesaid; where
upon the same. proceedings shall be had as are before directed.

SEC. 1213. (1199.) Land indivisible—Sale—Appraisement.-—18. When
such commissioner shall report to the court that the whole or part of
the lands of which partition is demanded can not be divided without
damage to the owners, the court, in its discretion, may order the
whole or such part of the premises to be sold at public or private sale,
on such terms and conditions as it may prescribe: Provided, That if
the court does not order such sale to be made for cash, a cash payment
of not less than one-third of the purchase-money shall be required by
the court, to be made to said commissioner by the purchaser of such
land, at the time of the sale: And provided, also, That at public sale
such land shall sell for at least two-thirds of its appraised value, and
at private sale at not less than its appraised value, to be ascertained
as in cases of sales of land on execution, and, if a part only be sold,
the remainder may be partitioned, subject to the rules hereinbeiore
provided: And provided, further, That in all cases where lands by the
court ordered to be sold at private sale do not exceed one thousand
dollars in value, the same may, in the discretion of the court, be sold
without any notice of sale being bad or given.

SEC. 1214. (1200.) Eﬁect of partial partition—19. If under such
partial partition, duly conﬁrmed, the shares assigned be full shares,
the residue reserved for sale shall be discharged from all title or claim
of the parties so receiving assignment of their shares.
SEC. 1215. (1201.) Commissioner to sell—Bond.——20. Such sale shall
be made by a commissioner to be appointed by the court, other than
one of the commissioners to make partition; and such commissioner
shall ﬁle a bond payable to the state of Indiana in such penalty as the
court may direct, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties
of his trust.

SEC. 1216. (1202.) Commissioner’s deed—21. Whenever it shall ap
pear to the court that such lands are sold for cash, or in case a partial
credit is given that the ﬁrst or cash payment of the purchase—money
18 paid, the court shall order such commissioner, or some other person,
to execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which shall bar all claims
of such owners to such lands as effectually as if they themselves had
executed the same; but in case partial credit is given for such lands,
the court shall, at the time said conveyance is so ordered to be made,
also order and direct that, concurrently with the execution of said
conveyance, the purchaser shall execute to such commissioner a mort
gage upon such lands to secure the deferred payments of the purchase
rnoney thereof, which mortgage when so executed shall be by said
commissioner placed upon record as required by law.

SEC. 1217. (1203.) Commissioners can not purchase—22. Commissi0n~
ers to make partition or to sell shall not become purchasers of said
land.
SEC. 1213. (1204.) Proceeds, hOW distributed—23. The monies aris
ing from such sale, after payment of just costs and expenses, shall be
paid by such commissioner to the persons entitled thereto, according
to their respective shares, under the direction of the court.

SEC. 1219. (1205.) Two commissioners may act—24. Any two of the
persons named as commisswners to make partition may perform the
duties required by this act; and vacancies may be ﬁlled by the court.

SEC. 1220. (1206.) Vacancy—Successor’s acts valid—25. The occur
rence of a vacancy shall not invalidate the previous acts of the com
missioners; and a successor shall take up and continue the proceedings,
which shall be as valid as if the same had been done by the commis
sioners ﬁrst appointed.
SEC. 1221. (1207.) Pay of commissioners—27. Such court shall make
such allowance to the commissioners for their services, and for sur
veying, marking, chaining, platting, and the execution of the neces'
sary conveyances as to such court shall Seem reasonable.

SEC. 1222. (1208.) Costs, hOW apportioned—28. All costs and neces
sary expenses, including reasonable counsel fees for plaintifff’s counsel,
the amount thereof to be determined by the court, shall be awarded
and enforced in favor of those entitled thereto against the partitioners,
and in such proportions against each and according to equity as the
court may determine, having regard to their relative interests in the
lands or proceeds aparted [apportioned].

SEC. 1223. (1209.) Proceedings, when reviewed—29. Upon showing
sufﬁcient cause, any person not served with summons may, within
one year after such partition is conﬁrmed, appear and open the pro
ceedings, and obtain a review thereof; and also any person of unsound
mind, or any infant whose guardian did not attend and approve such
partition, may, Within one year after the removal of his disability,
have a review of such partition.

SEC. 1224. (1210.) Notice to creditor.-736. Any person bound as
surety upon any contract in writing for the payment of money or the
performance of any act, when the right of action has accrued, may re
quire, by notice in writing, the creditor or obliges forthwith to insti
tute an action upon the contract.

SEC. 1225. (1211.) Surety discharged, when—737. If the creditor 0r
obligee shall not proceed within a reasonable time to bring his action'
upon such contract, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution,
the surety shall be discharged from all liability thereon.
SEC. 1226. (1212.) Trial of suretyship.— 738. When any action is
brought against two or more defendants upon a contract, any one 01‘
more of the defendants being surety for the others, the surety may.
upon a written complaint to the court, cause the question of surety
ship to be tried and determined upon the issue made by the parties at
the trial of the cause, or at any time before or after the trial, or at a
subsequent term; but such proceedings shall not affect the proceed—
ings of the plaintifff.

SEC. 1227. (1213.) Order to exhaust principal’s property—739. If the
ﬁnding upon such issue he in favor of the surety, the court shall make
an order directing the sheriff to levy the execution, ﬁrst, upon and
exhaust the property of the principal, before a levy shall be made
upon the property of the surety; and the clerk shall indorse a mem
orandum of the order on the execution.
SEC. 1228. (1214.) Judgment in force for surety, etc.—740. When any
Fdefendant surety in a judgment, or special bail or replevin bail, or
Vsurety in a delivery bond or replevin bond, or any person being surety
in any undertaking whatever has been or shall be compelled to pay
5" any judgment or any part thereof; or shall make any payment which
. is applied upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship; or when
tarry sheriff or other ofﬁcer, or any surety upon his ofﬁcial bond, shall
' be compelled to pay any judgment, or any part thereof, by reason of
‘ any default of such ofﬁcer, except for failing to pay over money col
1 looted, or for wasting property levied 011,—the judgment shall not be
discharged by such payment, but shall remain in force for the use of
‘ the bail, surety, ofﬁcer, or other person making such payment; and
after the plaintiﬁ is paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatis
ﬁed may be prosecuted to execution for his use.

SEC. 1229. (1215.) Remedy of co-sureties who pay.-—741. Any one of
several judgment-defendants, and any one of several replevin-bail,
having paid and satisﬁed the plaintifff, shall have the remedy provided
in the last section against the co-defendants or co-sureties, to collect of
them the ratable proportion each is equitably bound to pay.
SEC. 1230. (1216.) When surety shall not suffer judgment—742. No.
surety or his representatives shall confess judgment, or suffer judg
ment by default, in any case, when he is notiﬁed that there is a valid
defense, if the principal will enter himself defendant to the action,
and tender to the surety or his representative good security to indem
nify him, to be approved by the court.
SEC. 1231. ( 1217.) When judgment of sureties without relief.—743.
Whenever any person seeks a remedy against another for whom he
has discharged a debt or claim upon contract, in whole or in part,
made payable without any relief from valuation or appraiscment laws,
for which he was bound as surety or otherwise, the remedy of such
person shall also be enforced without any relief from such laws.

SEC. 1232. (1218.) Provisions extend to heirs of sureties.—744. The
foregoing provisions of this article shall extend to heirs, executors,
and administrators of deceased persons; but the provisions concerning
sureties giving notice to the creditors shall not operate against persons
under legal disabilities.
SEC. 1233. (1219.) Rate Of interest—745. In any case when a surety
on any bill, note, bond, or other instrument in writing shall be com
pelled to pay the debt or obligation of the principal debtor, such surety
shall recover such rate of interest on the amount so paid by him for
his principal as was originally provided for in such bill, note, bond, or
other instrument in writing, held against such principal debtor; and
the judgment therein shall bear the same rate of interest, not exceed
ing ten per cent. per annum.

SEC. 1234. (1220.) Recognizance, when a lien—605. Every recogni
zance shall bind the real estate of the principal from the time it is
taken, but shall only bind the real estate of the surety from the time
judgment of forfeiture is rendered.

SEC. 1235. (1221.) Defective bond—852. No ofﬁcial bond entered into
by any ofﬁcer, nor any bond, recognizance, or written undertaking
taken by any ofﬁcer in the discharge of the duties of his oﬂice, shall
be void for want of form or substance or recital or condition, nor the
principal or surety be discharged; but the principal and surety shall
be bound by such bond, recognizance, or written undertaking to the
full extent contemplated by the law requiring the same, and the sure
ties to the amount speciﬁed in the bond or recognizance. In all ac
tions on a defective bond, recognizance, or written undertaking, the
plaintifff or relator may suggest the defect in his complaint, and recover
to the same extent as if such bond, recognizance, or written undertak
ing were perfect in all respects.

SEC. 1236. (1222.) When appointed.-- 245. _ A receiver may be ap
SEC. 031% g; pomted by the court, or the Judge thereof 1n vacation, in the follow
ion,m\!‘ij lng cases: _
News; First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
aking'm;t property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim.
ud them _ Second. In actions between partners, or persons Jomtly interested
I huh-f 1n any property or fund.

hird. In all actions, when it is shown that the property, fund, or
Twat! rents and proﬁts in controversy is in danger of being lost, removed,
_ or materially injured. 

Fourth. In actions by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of a mortgage
“we and the sale of the mortgaged property, when it appears that such

property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; or
when such property is not sufﬁcient to discharge the mortgaged debt,
—to secure the application of the rents and proﬁts accruing before a
sale can be had.

ifth. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is
in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
ixth. To protect or preserve, during the time allowed for redemp
tion, any real estate or interest therein sold on execution or order of
sale, and to secure to the person entitled thereto the rents and proﬁts
thereof.
eventh. And in such other cases as may be provided by law; or
here, in the discretion of the court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
it may be necessary to secure ample justice to the parties.

SEC. 1237. (1223.) WhO shall not be.——246. No party orv attorney, or
other person interested in an action, shall be appointed receiver
therein. '
SEC. 1238. (1224.) Oath and bond—247. Before entering upon his
duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and
with one or more sureties, approved by the court, or judge thereof in
vacation, execute a written undertaking payable to such person as the
court, or the judge thereof in vacation, shall direct, to the effect that
he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action and
Obey the orders of the court or judge thereof.
SEC. 1239. (1225.) Deposit of money in court—248. When it is ad
mitted by the pleading or examination of a party that he has in his
possession or under his control any money or other thing capable of
delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may order the same to be
deposited in court, or with the clerk thereof in vacation, or delivered
to such party, with or without security, subject to the further order of
the court or the judge thereof. 

SEC. 1240. (1226.) Failure to deposit—Order to sheriﬁ.—249. When
ever, in the exercise of its authority, a court, or the judge thereof in
vacation, shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court or the judge, besides pun
ishing the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring
the sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit it or deliver it in
conformity with the direction of the court or judge thereof.
SEC. 1241. (1227.) Money not to be loaned—Exception.--250. Money
deposited or paid into court, or with the clerk thereof, in an action,
shall not be loaned out, unless with the consent of all the parties hav~
ing an interest in or making claim to the same.
SEC. 1242. (1228.) Powers of receiver.—251. The receiver shall have
power, under control of the court, or of the judge thereof in vacation,
to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the prop
erty, to receive rents, collect debts, in his own name, and generally to
do such acts respecting the property, as the court or the judge thereof
may authorize.
SEC. 1243. (1229.) Court may enforce payment—252. When the an
swer of the defendant admits part of the plaintiﬁf’s claim to be just,
the court, on motion, may order the defendant to satisfy that part of
the claim, and may enforce the order by execution.
SEC. 1244. (1230.) Notice of applicati0n—Excepti0n.—253. Receivers
shall not be appointed, either in term or vacation, in any case, until
the adverse party shall have appeared, or shall have had reasonable
notice of the application for such appointment, except upon sufﬁcient
cause shown by aﬁidavit. 
SEC. 1245. (1231.) Appeal in ten days—254. In all cases hereafter
commenced or now pending in any of the courts of this state, in which
a receiver may be appointed or refused, the party aggrieved may,
within ten days thereafter, appeal from the decision of the court to
the supreme court, without awaiting the ﬁnal determination of
such case; and in cases where a receiver shall be or has been ap
pointed, upon the appellant ﬁling an appeal bond with sufﬁcient
surety, in such sum as may have been required of such receiver, con
ditioned for the due prosecution of such appeal, and the payment of
all costs or damages that may accrue to any ofﬁcer or person by rea
son thereof, the authority of such receiver shall be suspended until
the ﬁnal determination of such appeal.
SEC. 1246. (1232.) When copy may take place of lost record—1.
Whenever any record, bond, execution, order of sale, or other writ, or
the returns thereon, or any other paper or part thereof, in any judicial
proceeding of any judicial court of this state, shall have been, or shall
hereafter be, lost or destroyed, any party or person interested therein
may, on application, by complaint in writing and upon notice, as pro
vided in section three of this act, in the court having jurisdiction over,
or the custody or control thereof, and on showing to the satisfaction
of such court, that the same has been lost or destroyed without fault
or neglect of the party or person making such application, obtain an
order from such court authorizing such defect to be supplied by a
duly certiﬁed copy of the original, where the same can be obtained;
which certiﬁed copy shall be entered of record in said court, and shall
thereafter have the same force and effect as the original would have
had in all respects. 

SEC. 1247. (1233.) Complaint t0 restore—2. Whenever the loss or
destruction of any such record, bond, execution, order of sale, or other
writ, or the returns thereon; or any other paper or part thereof, shall
have happened, or shall hereafter happen, and such defect can not be
supplied as provided in the next preceding section, any party or per—
son interested therein may ﬁle his complaint in the court to which
the same belonged, or which has jurisdiction over or custody or con
trol of the same, showing the loss or destruction thereof, and that a
certified copy thereof can not be obtained by the party or person mak
ing such application, and the substance of the same so lost or de
stroyed, and that such loss or destruction occurred without the fault
or neglect of the party making such application, and that such loss or
destruction, unless supplied, will or may result in damage to the per
son making such application; and, thereupon, the defendants named
in such complaint shall be served with summons or notiﬁed by publi—
cation, as provided in the next section of this act, and said cause shall
stand for hearing by said court the same as other civil cases in said
court.

SEC. 1248. (1234.) Summons—Publication.—-3. The defendants, their
legal representatives, or the necessary parties, in all cases mentioned
in the preceding sections, shall have ten days’ notice of the time set
for the hearing thereof, by summons issued by the clerk of such court;
or if such defendants are non—residents of the state of Indiana, or their
residence be unknown, or the names of any necessary party defendants.
be unknown, such notice may be given by three successive weeks’
publication in some weekly newspaper of general circulation, pub
lished in said county, to be named by the person making the applica
tion, his agent or attorney; or if none be published in such county,
then such notice shall be given by publication in the weekly news
paper published in this state nearest the county seat of such county
(such published notice to be given by the clerk of such court, on
affidavit ﬁled by plaintifff, his agent, attorney, or some competent per
son); the last of which notices shall be published ten days before the
ﬁrst day of the term of court in which said complaint may be pending,
or ten days before a day in said term for which said cause may be set
for hearing, which day shall be named in the summons or notice.
SEC. 1249. (1235.) Answer—Proofs—Order of reinstatement—4. Such
defendants may resist such complaint by answer of nul t'iel record, and
no other, as to the existence of the record, bond, execution, order of
sale, or other writ, or the returns thereon, or other paper sought to be
reinstated; and upon the trial thereof, oral testimony shall be admitted,
and strict proof of dates, sums, and amounts, and actual entries and
forms of record shall not be required on the trial of such issue; but
the court shall, on such hearing, if the quesnon is presented, deter
mine, and in its record of reinstatement set forth, what satisfaction,
in whole or in part, by payment or otherwise, has been made of any
judgment or decree sought to be reinstated since the rendition thereof.
And if, upon such hearing, such court shall be satisﬁed that the state—
nients in such complaint are true, the court shall make an order re
citing what was the substance and effect of such lost or destroyed
record, bond, execution, order of sale, or other writ, or the returns
thereon, or other paper or part thereof, and what satisfaction, by pay
ment or otherwise, in whole or in part, has been made of any judg
ment or decree so sought to be reinstated, when that question is pre
sented; which order shall be entered of record in said court and shall
have the same force and effect that the original record would have had
if the same had not been lost or destroyed, subject to any satisfaction
found by the court.
SEC. 1250. (1236.) Setting aside reinstatement—5. In all cases where
any record, bond, execution, order of sale, or other writ, or the re
turns thereon, or any other paper, or part thereof, mentioned in this
act, has been or may be lost or destroyed, in whole or in part, and has
been reinstated without appearance of or actual notice to the defend
ants in such proceeding of reinstatement, any such defendant may, at
any time within two years thereafter, unless he may be under disabil
ities (then within two years after the removal of such disabilities),
on afﬁdavit of merits, have the same set aside, on motion in writing
(of which motion the plaintifff or complainant shall have the same
notice required to be given the defendants by section three of this act);
and when such reinstatement shall be set aside, the same proceedings
shall be had thereon as if the defendant had appeared to the original
complaint for reinstatement.
SEC. 1251. (1237.) Proceedings in pending- causes—6. In all actions
now pending, or that may hereafter be commenced, in any court of
record in this state, any party thereto may, on application to such
court, veriﬁed by afﬁdavit, show that any record, bond, execution,
order of sale, or other writ, or the returns thereon, or any other paper
of the record or ﬁles of any court in this state, necessary to be used in
evidence in such cause, has been lost or destroyed, in whole or in part,
without his fault or neglect (which afﬁdavit shall show the competency
and necessity of the same as evidence in the cause, and that the same
has not been reinstated), such court shall, unless the adverse party
will admit on the trial the facts stated in such affidavit, stay all pro
ceedings for a reasonable time, that said destroyed record, in whole or
in part, may be reinstated, and the court shall, upon cause shown,
grant further and additional time for the reinstatement of such record,
but the trial of such action shall not be delayed more than one year for
such reinstatement; and to expedite the reinstatement of the same, the
court may, on motion of either party, refer the question of such de
struction and reinstatement, as shown in such afﬁdavit, to a master
commissioner, to be appointed by the court, to hear, examine, and
take all the evidence, and report fully all the facts, in writing, to the
court, as provided for in this act.
SEC. 1252. (1238.) Duties and report of master—Pay.—7. Whenever
any complaint is ﬁled in any court for the reinstatement of any rec
ord, bond, execution, order of sale, or other writ, or the returns there
on, or any other paper or part thereof, as above provided, the court
may, on its own motion, or upon application of either party, refer to a
master commissioner for examination and hearing all the evidence,
written and oral, in such case; and such master commissioner shall hear
such evidence, as in other cases, and shall make a full and complete
report thereof to the court, and shall also report to the court, in form,
such record, bond, execution, order of sale, or other writ, or the re
turns thereon, or any other paper or part thereof sought to be rein
stated. And the court, if it ﬁnds the forms so reported to be substan
tially correct, as shown by the evidence reported, shall order the same
reinstated accordingly; and when so entered of record by the court it
shall have the same force and effect as the original would have had if
the same had not been lost or destroyed. Or, such court may, from the
report of such master commissioner, ﬁnd, determine, and say what
such original or part thereof was before its loss or destruction, and shall
order the same reinstated; and when so reinstated it shall have the
same force and effect as the original would have had if the same had
not been lost or destroyed. Which report of master commissioner,
and the ﬁnding and judgment of the court thereon, shall be governed
by the same practice as in other civil cases. Before such master com
missioner shall proceed to hear and examine the evidence in any case
referred to him, he shall give the parties thereto reasonable notice of
the time and place of hearing the same. Said master commissioner
shall have power to issue writs of subpoena ( which writs and other
notices shall be served by the sheriff), administer oaths, require the
production of all writings, records or parts of records, papers, memo
randa, or exhibits in any case referred to him; and he shall report to
the court, for punishment for contempt, any person for failure to ap
pear before him, on due and sufﬁcient notice, to give testimony or to
furnish any writing, record, or part of record, paper, memorandum, or
exhibit that may be required in evidence in any case so referred.
Such master commissioner shall be allowed by the court, for his serv
ilces, reasonable compensation, to be taxed and paid as the court may
irect.
SEC. 1253. (1239.) To quiet title, records being lost—8. Whenever
any record of any court of this state, or any pleading or paper of the
ﬁles of such ecurt, any robated will or will ﬁled for probate, or any
execution or decretal or er or other writ issued out of such court, or
by the clerk thereof, has been lost or destroyed, in whole or in part,
and such lost or destroyed record, paper, will, order, or writ, in any
way, forms a part of the evidence of any title to or interest in any real
estate, either legal or equitable, any person holding such title to or
interest in such real estate may, by complaint in the proper court of
the county in which such real estate is situate, have his title to or in
terest in such real estate declared quieted and set at rest. All persons
having or claiming any interest in such real estate shall be made de
fendants to such complaint, and shall be served with notice, as pro
vided for in section three [§ 1234]. The complaint shall specify the
plaintifff’s title to or interest in the real estate, and shall state, with
reasonable certainty, the record, paper, order, will, or writ lost or de
stroyed, and how the same constitutes a part of the evidence of his title
to or interest in such real estate. Upon the trial of such cause, oral
testimony shall be admitted of the loss or destruction, and the contents
of such records, papers, wills, orders, or writs so lost or destroyed;
and such rule-of evidence shall be applicable to every part of such
records, papers, orders, wills, or writs, the issuing of such writs, and
other process of such courts, and the returns thereon, notices by pub
lication, and the proof thereof.
SEC. 1254. (1240.) Reinstating probate records—9. The judge of any
court having probate jurisdiction, the records of which may have been
or may hereafter be destroyed, in whole or in part, may proceed, upon
his own motion, or on complaint in writing by any interested party,
to reinstate the records and proceedings of such court relating to de
cedents’ estates, guardianships, records of wills, wills probated, and wills
ﬁled for probate, in said court; and for the purpose of reinstating said
record's, wills, papers, or proceedings, or any part thereof, may, on
his own motion, or on written complaint ﬁled by any interested party,
issue citations and compel the attendance of all parties for that pur
pose; and may, in his discretion, refer such matter to a master com
missioner, as provided for in section seven [§ 1238]. All persons
interested shall be notiﬁed as provided for in section three [§ 1234],
or in such manner and for such time as the court may direct. And
oral testimony shall be admissible of the existence, contents, and de
struction of such records, papers, and wills.
SEC. 1255. (1241.) Special terms to reinstate—10. The judge of any
court, the records or papers whereof have been or may be destroyed,
in whole or in part, is hereby authorized to hold any special term or
terms of said court, for such length of time and at such time or times
as may to him, in his discretion, seem proper, for the purpose of rein
stating records and papers of such court. And process may be made
returnable at such special terms, and all proceedings had thereat in
such cases, the same as at a regular term of said court.

SEC. 1256. (1242.) County board to meet.——1. Whenever there has
been or shall be destroyed, all or any of the books, pampfilets,
papers, records, or other writings, belonging to any county in this
state, or to any court of record held therein, it shall be the duty of the
auditor of such county, forthwith thereafter, to notify the members of
the board of commissioners of such county to meet at such time and
place as he shall designate; and they shall so meet accordingly, and
may, during the twelve months from thence next ensuing meet from
time to time on their own adjournments, if such meetings shall, in
their opinion, be rendered necessary by the destruction of the records
as aforesaid.
SEC. 1257. (1243.) List of documents to governor.—-2. Such board,
when so met, shall, on proof made before them, cause to be made out
and certiﬁed by the auditor of such county, a list of all books, pamph
lets, documents, records, maps, and other papers, whether written or
printed, which have been so destroyed, which had before such time
been furnished such county by the state government by virtue of any
law or joint resolution of this state; which certiﬁed list such auditor
shall forthwith forward to the governor of the state.
SEC. 1258. (1244.) State to furnish documents.—3. It shall be the
duty of the governor, immediately on the receipt of said certiﬁed list,
to notify the ofﬁcer or ofﬁcers of state whose duty it may be to fur
nish counties pampfilets, books, documents, maps, records, and other
papers, whether written or printed, of the fact of such destruction;
and it shall be the duty of such ofﬁcer or ofﬁcers, immediately there
after, to furnish to such county all such pampfilets, books, documents,
maps, records, and other papers, whether written or printed, as may
be so certiﬁed to have been destroyed, in the same manner as if such
county had never received the same.
SEC. 1259. (1245.) Recorder to record instruments—4. If the records
required to be kept in the recorder’s ofﬁce of any county in this state
have been or shall be destroyed, in whole or in part, it shall be the
duty of such recorder, forthwith thereafter, to procure a book or books,
in which he shall, from time to time, and in the order in which they
may be presented, record such deeds and other instruments of writing
as had been previously recorded in such ofﬁce, and the record where
of has been destroyed; and he shall also, immediately after the record
of such deed or other instrument, record the indorsement thereon
-made by the recorder, of the time when said deed was originally ﬁled
in such ofﬁce for record; and such record shall have the same force
and effect as the original record would have had if the same had not
been destroyed.

SEC. 1260. (1246.) Recorder to record proofs—5. Such recorder shall
also procure another book or books, in which he shall record, in the
order in which the same may be presented to him, all such proof of
the execution, acknowledgment, contents, destruction, and recording
of any deed or other instrument before that time recorded in such
ofﬁce, the record whereof has been destroyed, as may be made before
him in the manner hereinafter prescribed; which said book or books,
together with the book or books required in the last preceding section,
shall be, by such recorder, indexed in the same manner as records of
deeds may, at such time, be required to be indexed by existing laws.

SEC. 1261. (1247.) Perpetuating evidence—6. Whenever any person
having an interest in perpetuating the evidence of any deed or other
instrument in writing, proper to be recorded, the record whereof in
such ofﬁce has been (3 'stroyed, will make oath before such recorder that
he has such interest, that such deed or other instrument has been pre
viously recorded in such ofﬁce, and that, though he has made diligent
search for the original of such deed or other instrument, he has been
unable to ﬁnd the same, such recorder shall, at the instance of such
person, after ﬁrst recording such oath, and causing such afﬁant to
sign such record, proceed to take such proof, under oath, as may be
produced before him, recording the same in such book, and causing
the witnesses to sign such record, to which he shall alSo add his cer
tiﬁcate of their having been duly sworn in the premises.
SEC. 262. (1248.) Nature of proofs, etc—7. Such proofs shall consist
of the evidence of the deed and the execution and acknowledgment of
such deed or other instrument, of the date and contents of the same,
of the fact that the same had been previously recorded in such cities,
and of the time when it was so recorded or deposited for record, as
nearly as the witnesses may be able to state. But such recorder, be
fore examining any witness, shall cause him to state, on oath, what
interest, if any, he has in perpetuating such testimony, which state
ment shall be incorporated in such record. Such recorder shall be
authorized to administer all oaths required by this and the last pre
ceding section of this act, and may himself be sworn as a witness by
any person authorized to administer oaths.
SEC. 1263. (1249.) Record of testimony, when evidence—8. In all
suits in any court in this state, it shall be competent for either party
to read in evidence such record of testimony, or a copy thereof, certi
ﬁed by the recorder of such county to be a full copy of all the testi
mony relative to such deed as it may have relation to, as may be con
tained in such record; and such record, or such copy thereof, when so
read in evidence, shall have the same force and effect as if the witness
or witnesses had been sworn to the same facts on the trial of such
cause, and may be excluded, rebutted, or impeached, in the same man
ner that such testimony might have been excluded, rebutted, 0r im
peached, if sworn to by such witness or witnesses on such trial.
SEC. 1264. (1250.) County board to appoint commissioner.—9. If the
records or ﬁles of the circuit, probate, common pleas, commissioners’,
or other inferior court of record in any county in this state, or the
papers on ﬁle in the ofﬁce of the clerks of either of such courts, 01‘ the
bonds, notes, or other papers belonging or properly ﬁled in the ofﬁce of
the treasurer, auditor, assessor, or other ofﬁcer of any county in this
state, or any or either of them, have been or shall, in whole or in part,
be destroyed, the board of commissioners, when they shall have met,
as in the ﬁrst section of this act “1232] required, shall appoint a
commissioner, who, after having taken an oath of office as such eom
missioner, shall forthwith proceed to discharge u-e duties hereinafter
required of him.
SEC. 1265. (1251.) Commissioner’s duties and powers—10. The said
commissioner may, if he deems the same necessary, employ a clerk;
and such clerk, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall
take an oath of ofﬁce. Such commissioner shall also procure a sufii~
cient number of substantial record-books, in which shall be recorded
at length the proceedings had before such commissioner hereinafter
authorized, keeping in separate books the record of business apper
taining to the different courts and the ofﬁces of the different ofﬁcers of
such county. Such commissioner shall have power to administer
oaths in all cases where testimony is required to be taken before him.
SEC. 1266. (1252.) County board may remove commissioner.—-11. If
the board of commissioners of such county shall, at any time, become
satisﬁed that such commissioner is incompetent, or unreasonably de
lays or neglects the duties devolved upon him by this act, they may,
by order of record, remove him from such ofﬁce, and appoint a suc
cessor; and from such order of removal there shall be allowed no ap- peal. And such board of commissioners may, at any time after twelve
months from the time when usch commissioner enters upon the duties
of his ofﬁce, require him, within twenty days thereafter, to close up
the business of his commission; after the expiration of which twenty
days, the duties of his ofﬁce shall cease. But such board of commis
sioners may, at any time thereafter, authorize a resumption of said
duties for a limited period.
SEC. 1267. (1253.) Notice of appointment—12. Such commissioner,
before entering upon the duties of his ofﬁce, shall give twenty days’
notice of his appointment, and of the time and place when and where
he will commence discharging such duties, by publication in some.
newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in such
county, if there be one, and by posting up written notices in each of
the townships of such county. Such commissioner may adjourn from'
time to time, as the business before him may require; but after an adjournment
without day, he shall not again resume the duties of such
office, without an order of the board of commissioners of such county
shall authorize him so to do. .
SEC. 1268. (1254.) Powers of commissioner.—13. Such commissioner
shall have power to administer all oaths necessary and proper to be
taken before him; to issue subpoenas for witnesses, and compel their.
attendance by attachment; punish contempts by ﬁne, and issue execution
therefore; tax costs and issue fee-bills therefore; and such writs
and subpoenas shall be served by the sheriffs of the several counties in
this state, who, together with witnesses, shall receive therefore the same
compensation which may be allowed by law for the same service or at
tendance in the circuit court, to be taxed against the party making
such cost.
SEC. 1269. (1255.) Entry of proofs before commissioner.——14. Such
clerk or, if no clerk be appointed, such commissioner, shall enter of
record such proof, by disinterested witnesses as may be produced be
fore him, of the existence and contents of any record (judgments and
decrees, and writs of execution and returns thereof, recognizances and
forfeitures thereof, in courts of record excepted), bond, note, or other
document or written paper whatever, which belonged to or was prop
erly ﬁled or deposited in the ofﬁce of the clerk of the circuit, probate,
commissioners’, or other inferior courts of record in such county,
which has been or may be destroyed: Provided, however, That no
proof of the contents of any will shall be received until the commis
sioner is satisﬁed, by the oath of the person seeking to have the same
recorded, or other satisfactory evidence, that neither the original nor
an authenticated copy of the same can be produced.
SEC. 1270. (1256.) Testimony, not conclusions, to be set out.-— 15'
Such commissioner and such recorder, in making entries of the testi
mony taken before them, shall set out at length the statements of the
witness or witnesses, and not the conclusions drawn by such commis
sioner or recorder from such statements.
SEC. 1271. (1257.) Signing record——Certifying—Evidenee.-—16- Such
records shall be signed by such commissioner from day to day, and at
the close of each volume he shall certify the same to be true and full
copies of the testimony taken before him, and shall deposit such vol
umes, as fast as they are completed, in the diﬂerent ofﬁces to which
their contents respectively appertain. Such records, or properly cer
tiﬁed copies thereof, may be read in evidence in any legal proceeding
in this State, and shall have the same force and effect that the same
testimony would have had it delivered orally in court.
SEC. 1272. (1258.) Copies to have force of originals—17. Copies of
such records, or any part thereof, may be certiﬁed as true and full
copies of all testimony taken on the subject-matter to which such part
relates, by such commissioner, while such volume remains in his 0118'
tody, and by the ofﬁcers with whom the same may be properly depos
ited after such deposit, and shall have the same force and effect 111
evidence as the original of which they are copies.
SEC. 1273. (1259.) Pay of commissioner, clerk and rccorder.-—18- 311011
commissioner shall, if he employ a clerk, be entitled to receive, as 00111'
pensation, a sum to be allowed by the board of commissioners, not 61?
ceeding three dollars per day for the time actually employed; and If
he acts as his own clerk, a like compensation of not exceeding four d01—
lars per day. Such clerk, if one be employed, shall be paid not exceed
ing two dollars per day. The recorder of any such county shall be 811' titled to charge half the usual fees for recording, to be paid by the
person for whom the same is done. All expenses of books, stationery,
and per diem. shall be paid by such county.
SEC. 1274. (1260.) Record of copy of destroyed will.--19. Whenever ‘
an authenticated copy of any will, or letters testamentary or of admin
istration, the record whereof has been destroyed, shall be produced to
the clerk of the proper court, he shall record the same in the same
manner as if it was the original, and shall note upon the record the
date at which it was originally recorded, which last record shall have
the same force and effect the original record would have bad if the
same had not been destroyed.
SEC. 1275. (1261.) New bonds by administrators, etc—24. All guard
ians, administrators, and executors whose official bonds have been or
may be destroyed in any general or notorious destruction of the rec
ords of any county in this state, shall, within three months thereafter,
ﬁle new bonds, to the acceptance of the proper officer, or, failing so to
do, they shall cease to be such guardians, executors, or administrators,
and the proper court shall appoint a successor. The liability on such
new bond shall commence from the time of ﬁling the same in the
proper office; and the suretics in the bonds destroyed shall not be
liable for any default or miscarriage of their principal, occurring after
such new bond has been ﬁled.
SEC. 1276. (1262.) County officers to ﬁle new bonds—25. All county
ofﬁcers from whom, by law, ofﬁcial bonds are required shall, upon the
destruction of any such bonds, ﬁle with the proper ofﬁcer new bonds,
within twenty days after they shall be notiﬁed of such destruction by
written notice over the hand of the ofﬁcer having the custody of the
bonds destroyed, or failing so to do or to resign such ofﬁces, shall be
ﬁned, before any justice of such county, ten dollars for every day they
shall fail so to do; and the liabilities on such new or old bonds, re
spectively, shall be the same as is provided in the preceding section
of this act on like bonds given by guardians, executors and adminis
trators. ‘
SEC. 1277. (1263.) Auditor to replace papers and books of treasurer.—
26. If the precept and duplicate, or either of them, or any other pub—
lic paper or papers in the hands of the treasurer of any county in this
state has been or shall be, in whole or in part, destroyed, it shall be
the duty of the county auditor of such county, or other ofﬁcer whose
duty it may be to furnish such papers, forthwith thereafter, to replace
the same in his hands, by making out anew all such books and papers
as have been destroyed, in the same manner and from the same orig
inal as the books and papers destroyed were made out; which precept,
duplicate, and other books and papers, when so made out and placed ~
in the hands of such treasurer, shall have the same force and effect as
if they were the identical papers which had been destroyed.
SEC. 1278. (1264.) Tax-payers must prOVe payment—27. All persons
charged with taxes on such duplicate, made out as in the last preced
ing section is required, shall be liable to pay the same, unless such
persons shall produce proper receipts for the same, or shall satisfy, by
competent proof, such treasurer or the board of commissioners of such
county that they have paid the same.
SEC. 1279. (1265.) New assessment-rolls.—-28. Whenever, in any
county, both the assessment~rolls and duplicates shall be destroy
the board of commissioners of such county shall cause new assessme
and appraisements to be made out, in the same manner and under
same regulations that the original assessments and appraisementsw
made; and all such proceedings shall be thereafter had as may
necessary and proper, under existing laws, to enable the treasurer
' collect all taxes due in such county.

SEC. 1280. Court records—Transcribing.—1. That whenever any ci
order book, probate order book, judgment docket, entry docket,
other record book in which are kept any of the records and proce<
ings of any circuit, superior or criminal court in this state have be
tor shall be damaged by ﬁre or otherwise to the extent that, in1
Jopinion of the judge of suchecourt, it is necessary in order to presei
'and perpetuate the contents thereof, to transcribe the same into a I]
book, such judge shall make an order to be entered in the civil on
book of such court ordering and directing the clerk of such court
transcribe the contents of such damaged book into a new book of l
size and form, to be provided for that purpose by the county in wh
such court is held.
SEC. 1281. Duty of clerk—2. The clerk of such court shall thereu;
promptly, under the direction of the court, transcribe the contents
such damaged book into a new book of like size and form, in pla
legible handwriting, and at the close thereof certify that the same i
full, true, correct and complete transcript of the contents of such da
aged book, and after such record shall have been so transcribedi
certiﬁed by such clerk, the judge of such court shall examine s1
transcribed record, and if he ﬁnds the same to be a correct transci
of the original, shall so certify at the end of such transcript in
diately after the certiﬁcate of the clerk thereto.
SEC. 1282. Damaged books preserved—3. Such damaged books sl
be preserved and kept in the ofﬁce of the clerk of such court.
SEC. 1283. Effect Of new records—4. Such transcribed book, when
made and certiﬁed, shall bear the name and number of the origi
damaged book of which it is a transcript, and such authenticated tr
script therein contained shall be deemed, held to be and treated
the original, and shall have the full force and effect of the original
_ all purposes, and sh!" be admitted in evidence in all cases the St
as the original.
SEC. 1284. Fees 0f clerk—Payment.—5. Such clerk shall be allo‘
ﬁve cents per hundred words ( four ﬁgures counting as one word)
transcribing such records, including index thereto, except that
docketing such cause on an entry, judgment or court docket, incl
ing dates, numbers, names of counsel, kind of action and all thi
complete as said cause appears on the original, said clerk shall be
lowed two cents; and for indexing said causes on said new docket,
shall be allowed one cent for each cause so docketed, and no more
be paid out of the county treasury as other allowances by the court are
paid.
SEC. 1285. Records partly destroyed supplied from 0riginals.—1. That
wherever any part of any record or records of any county of the state
of Indiana have from any cause been destroyed, and where the re
maining part or parts of such record or records have been transcribed
for the purpose of preserving the same from mutilation or decay, it
shall be the duty of such ofﬁcer having charge of such record or rec
ords to supply such parts of said records so destroyed, from the orig
inal instruments or documents from which said records or parts of
records were made upon the presentation to such ofﬁcer by the proper
holder of such instruments or documents, and for which services he
shall receive from the party presenting such instruments or documents
the sum of ten cents for each one hundred words or fraction thereof so
supplied. It shall be the further duty of such officer to properly in
dex such records so supplied, as original instruments are indexed, pro
vided such instruments shall not be so indexed where the original in
dex thereof is not destroyed, that such parts of records so supplied
shall have the same force and effect in law as the original record.

SEC. 1286. (1266.) When action lies.——-164. When any personal goods
are wrongfully taken, or unlawfully detained, from the owner or person
claiming the possession thereof, or when taken on execution or attach
ment, are claimed by any person other than the defendant, the owner
or claimant may bring an action for the possession thereof.

SEC. 1287. (1267.) Affidavit for delivery.—165. The plaintifff may, at
the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in this act.
When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by the plaintifff,
or by some one in his behalf, showing—
First. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or that he is
then lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, and particularly de
scribe it.
Second. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, 01'
ﬁne, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution or attach
ment against the property of the plaintifff, or, if so seized, that it is,
by statute, exempt from such seizure.
Third. That the property has been wrongfully taken and is unlaw
fully detained by the defendant, or is unlawfully detained.
Fourth. The estimated value of the property, and in what county
the same is believed to be detained.

SEC. 1238. (1268.) Order for delivery—171. When such afﬁdavit is
ﬁled with the clerk, he shall issue an order for the seizure of the prop
erty and delivery thereof to the plaintifff.
SEC. 1289. (1269.) Contents of order.-—-172. The order shall be directed
and delivered’to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties to
the action, and the court in which the action is brought, and direct
the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and stating its value, as
in the afﬁdavit; and deliver it to the plaintifff, and direct him to make
return of his doings thereon.
SEC. 1290. (1270.) Order, how executed—Receiver.——173. The sheriff
shall forthwith proceed to execute the order, by taking possession of
the property described in the afﬁdavit, or so much as can be found;
and if the defendant, or some person in his behalf, within twenty-four
hours thereafter, shall execute a written undertaking, payable to the
plaintifff, with sufﬁcient surety to be approved by the sheriff, to the
effect that the defendant shall safely keep the property, that the same
shall not be in any way injured or damaged, and that he will deliver
the same to the plaintifff, if judgment should be rendered to that
effect, and also that he will pay to the plaintifff all such sums of
money as he may recover in the action, then the sheriﬁ shall de
liver the propertyto the defendant. But if such undertaking is not
given within the time aforesaid, then the sheriff shall deliver the prop
erty to the plaintifff, on receiving from him, or some person in his
behalf, within twenty-four hours thereafter, a written undertaking,
payable to the defendant, with sufficient surety to be approved by the
sheriﬁ, to the effect that the plaintifff will prosecute his action with
effect, and that he will return the property to the defendant, if return
be adjudged by the court, and that he will pay to the defendant all
such sums of money as may be recovered in the action, for any cause
whatever; and in default of the undertaking being given, the property
shall be returned to the defendant, but the action shall not be dis
missed or delayed thereby. And if the property claimed by the plaintifff
shall have a peculiar value, that can not be compensated by damages,
either party, in term time or vacation, may, by afﬁdavit, upon notice
to the other, move the judge of the court in which said cause is pend
ing; to appoint a receiver, to take possession of the property, and keep
the same until the termination of the litigation in the cause, or until
the further order of the court. And the judge, upon such application,
shall make such order in the premises as will protect the rights of
the parties. 

SEC. 1291. (1271.) Breaking open buildings—174. If the property,0
any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheri‘
shall demand its delivery. If it shall not be delivered, he shall caus
the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the propert
into his possession; and, if necessary, he may call to his aid the p0W€
of the county. If the sheriff can not ﬁnd the property, or any part
thereof, the action shall not abate, but be prosecuted to final judgment.

SEC. 1292. (1272.) Custody of property.—175. The sheriff shall safely
keep the property during the time prescribedby the statute, and shall
be allowed by the court the necessary expense for doing so, to be paid
' by the plaintifff and taxed in the costs, if the property is recovered by
the plaintifff. When it appears by the afﬁdavit of the plaintifff, or other
person in his behalf, or by the return of the officer, that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the order can not
be executed, the court may compel the attendance of the defendant,
examine him on oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a
willful obstruction or hindrance of the execution of the order and a
disobedience of the orders of the court in this respect, as in cases of a
contempt. ' .
SEC. 1293. (1273.) Orders to diﬁerent counties.—-176. When the prop
erty is removed to another county after the commencement of the ac
tion, an order may, at any time before judgment, be directed to such
county for the seizure and delivery of the property claimed; and sev
eral orders to different counties may issue at the same time, at the op~
tion of the plaintiﬁ, and the costs shall be taxed as the court shall
direct. Such order to another county shall be served, and the prop
erty be delivered to the plaintifff, and the order returnable, in the same
manner and upon the same terms as above provided.
SEC. 1294. (1274.) Fraudulent concealment, eta—Fact returned—166.
In all actions for the recovery of the possession of personal property
upon afﬁdavit ﬁled as provided in this act, if the defendant shall fraud
ulently conceal, remove, transfer, withhold, or refuse to deliver the
property mentioned in the afﬁdavit of the plaintifff or his agent, with
a view to defraud the plaintifff, the sheriff, or officer charged with the
execution, of the order to take such property into his possession, shall
indorse the facts of such concealment, removal, transfer, withholding,
or refusal by said defendant upon said order, and make return thereof
to the court whence it issues.
SEC. 1295. (1275.) Summons to show cause—167. Upon the ﬁling of
such return, on application of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney the
clerk or court who issues such order shall issue a summons requiring
said defendant to appear before the court at the time set for the trial of
said cause, to show cause why execution against his body should not
issue. '
SEC. 1296. (1276.) Service—Proceedings.—-168. Such summons shall
be served and returned in the same manner as other summonses; and
if the defendant fail to appear, the trial of the issues shall proceed in
his absence, according to the rule of practice in other causes.
SEC. 1297. (1277.) Issue, when tried—169. The issue to be tried shall
be the truth of the facts alleged in the plaintifff’s afﬁdavit and the of
ﬁcer’s return indorsed on the o.der; which issue shall be tried at the
time of the trial of the original suit.
SEC. 1298. (1278.) Execution against b0dy.—170. If such trial be de
termined against such defendant, and he will not forthwith surrender,
for the beneﬁt of the plaintifff, the property mentioned in such afﬁda
vit found to have been concealed, removed, transferred, or withheld
by him, or pay the value thereof into court, an execution shall issue
forthwith against his body, and he be arrested and committed to the
prison of the county, there to be conﬁned until duly discharged ac
cording to law. 

SEC. 299. (1279.) Publication, how made—60. Publications of legal
and other ofﬁcial matters printed in the English language shall be
lawful if published in any newspaper of general circulation published
in the county.
SEC. 1300. (E. S. 10.) City advertising—Daily newspapers—1. That
in all cities containing a population of 10,000 or more inhabitants, as
shown by the last preceding-census, all legal advertising required by
law, pertaining to affairs connected with the city government, shall be
made in a daily newspaper of general circulation in such city, if one
' be published in said city.
SEC. 1301. (E. S. 11.) Legal notices—2. All notices of application for
license to retail spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, and all notices of
the sale of real estate for delinquent taxes, or by any sheriff, adminis
trator, executor or commissioner, when the applicant for such license
resides in, or the real estate to be sold is situated in, said city of 10,000
or more inhabitants as shown by the last receding census, shall be
made in a daily newspaper of general circu ation in such city, if one
be published in such city.
SEC. 1302. (E- S- 12.) Time—Fees.—3. It shall be sufﬁcient to make
such publication one time each week on a given day for the number
of weeks now required by law, but the fees for such publications in a
daily newspaper shall in no case exceed the fees allowed by law, if
such publications had been made in a weekly newspaper.

SEC. 1303. When no papers published in city or town—1. That in all
cases where it is now, or may hereafter be provided by law, that pub
lication shall be made in a newspaper or newspapers of general circu
lation, published within a city or incorporated town, and where no
newspaper or newspapers are published in such city or incorporated
town, it shall be lawful to make such publication in any newspaper or
newspapers published in the county where such city or incorporated
town is located.
SEC. 1304. (1280.) Time, how computed—849. The time within which
an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be computed by exclud—
ing the ﬁrst day and including the last. If the last day be Sunday,
it shall be excluded. 
SEC. 1305. (1281.) Surety, examination 0f.—851. Every court and of
ﬁcer authorized to take any‘bail or surety shall have power to examine,
on oath, the person offering to become such bail or surety, concern
ing his property and sufﬁciency as such hail or surety.
SEC. 1306. (1282.) Money substitute for bail—856. Any person re
quired to give bail may deposit with the clerk the amount of money
for which he is required to'give bail, and, thereupon, be discharged
from arrest.

SEC. 1307. (1283.) Defective appeal-bonds—New bonds—1. In all
cases where an appeal shall be taken from a justice of the peace, board
of county commissioners, viewers, or commissioners to assess dam
ages, or from any other person or tribunal, to the circuit court, and
the appeal-bond ﬁled in such case shall be deiectivein substance or
form, or for want of proper approval, such cases shall not be dismissed
on account of such defect or informality, if the appellant will, when
required by the court to which such appeal is taken, ﬁle in such court
a sufﬁcient bond, with surety to the acceptance of such court, in such
sum as such court shall require.
SEC. 1308. (1284.) Costs accrued—Additional bond.—2. In all such
appealed cases, when costs shall have accrued so as to render the sum
named in the appeal bond insufﬁcient to secure the same, the court in
which such appeal is pending shall require the appellant to give all
additional bond in such sum as such court shall deem sufﬁcient, with
surety to the acceptance of such court; and if the appellant fail or re
fuse so to do, such appeal shall be dismissed. 
SEC. 1309- (1235-) Certain words, how construed—857. In the con
struction of this act, the following rules shall be observed, when con
sistent with the context:
The word “ sheriff” means the sheriff of the county, or any other
person authorized to perform his duties in any case.
The word “ clerk ” means the clerk of the court, or any person an
thorized to perform his duties in any case.
The phrase “ of unsound mind ” includes idiots, non-compotes, luna
tics, and distracted persons.

The phrase “ under legal disabilities ” includes persons within the
age of twenty-one years, or of unsound mind, or imprisoned in the
state prison, or out of the United States.
The word “bond,” as used in this act, does not necessarily imply
a seal; but in other respects means the same kind of instruments as
heretofore.
The word “land,” and the phrases' “ real estate ” and “ real prop
erty ” include lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
The phrase “ personal property ” includes goods, chattels, evidences
of debt, and things in action.

The word “judgment” means all ﬁnal orders, decrees, and
minations in an action; also, all orders upon which executions
issue.
The phrase “money demands on contract,” when used in rate
to an action, means any action arising out of contract when the
demanded is a recovery of money.

The word “ attorney ” includes a counselor and every other }'
authorized to appear and represent a party in an action or specia
seeding, in any stage thereof.
The word “veriﬁer ,” when applied to pleadings, means sup]
by oath or afﬁrmation in writing.

SEC. 1310. (1286.) Number—Gender—“Without reliei.”—858. l
importing the singular number, only, may be also applied to the,
of persons and things; and words importing the masculine gt
only, may be extended to females also; and the words “witho
lief,” in any judgment, contract, execution, or other instrum
writing or record, shall be taken, held, and deemed to mean “ w
the beneﬁt of valuation laws.”
SEC. 1311, (1287.) Pending suits—859. In actions already commz
the pleadings to be had, the manner of procuring testimony, t
amination of parties, the trial and rendition of judgment, a1
other proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act,
as practicable.
SEC. 1312. (1288.) Liberal construction—860. The provisions (
act shall be liberally construed, and shall not be limited by any
of strict construction.

SEC. 1313. (1289.) Act not retroactive—861. N0 part of this act shall
be retroactive; unless expressly so declared.
SEC. 1313. (1289.) Act not retroactive—861. N0 part of this act shall
be retroactive; unless expressly so declared.
SEC. 1315. (1291.) Repeal.—-867. All enactments of the general as
sembly on the subject of the competency of witnesses to testify, and
all such enactments on the subject of pleading and practice, so far as
they relate to circuit and superior courts, except as to pleadings in
cases from inferior courts, are hereby repealed; but no right or liabil
ity to any penalty or forfeiture shall be impaired by this act, nor shall
any right, given by any enactment hereby repealed, be impaired by
such repeal, but the same shall be allowed in the manner provided in
this act.

SEC. 1316. ( 1292. ) JIlligl‘S—QllOI'Ilm—JllI'iSdiCtiOIl.—l. The s
court shall consist ol‘ live judges, any three of whom shall
qnoriuu. and shall have jurisdiction in appeals co~extensive “
State.
SEC. 12517. (1293.) Counties of ﬁrst district—1. The countieS<
PM, Owen. (flay, l’nrkv, Morgan, Sullivan, Greene, Knox, I
Murtiu, lluhois. Pike, Gihsigin. Posey, Vanderburgh, Warrick, S
Porn-y, nml Orange shrill constitute the ﬁrst supreme court judi<
trivt.
SEC. 1318. (1294.) Counties of second district—2. The 00111
Ohio, Rush, Switzerland. l>eurborn, Shelby, Brown, Lawrence
ford, Harrison, Floyd. (llnrk, Scott, Jefferson, Ripley, Decatu
tholomew, Jackson, Washington, and Jennings shall constit
second supreme court juriicinl district.
SEC. 1319. (1295.) Counties of third district—3. The counties
pecanoe, Johnson, White, Wurren, Fountain, Montgomery,(
Boone, Tipton, Hamilton, Marion, Vermillion, Putnam, Hendricks,
and Vigo shall constitute the third supreme court judicial district.
SEC. 1320. (1296.) Counties of fourth district.—4. The counties of Al
len, Whitley, Huntington, Wells, Adams, Grant, Blackford, Jay, Del
aware, Randolph, Howard, Madison, Hancock, Henry, Wayne, Fayette,
Union, and Franklin shall constitute the fourth supreme court judicial
district.
SEC. 1321. (1297.) Counties of ﬁfth district—5. The counties of Lake,
Benton, Porter, Laporte, St. Joseph, Elkhart, Kosciusko, Marshall,
Starke, Jasper, Newton, Pulaski, Fulton, Wabash, Miami, Cass, Car
roll, Lagrange, Steuben, De Kalb, and Noble shall constitute the ﬁfth
supreme court judicial district.

SEC. 1322. (1298.) Building—Gost.—1. The governor of thisv state is
hereby authorized to cause to be erected, on ground now belonging to
the state, a building suitable and convenient for the use of the supreme
courtand the ofﬁcers of state, at a cost not exceeding ﬁfty thousand
dollars.
SEC. 1323. (1299.) Law library.—-4. When said building shall be com
pleted, the law library shall be removed thereto, and shall be under
the control of the judges of the supreme court; and they are hereby
authorized to sell, exchange, and purchase books therefore, to be paid
for, on their order, out of the general funds in the treasury; and they
may make rules for the care and control of the same.

SEC. 1324. (1300.) Seal—2. The supreme court shall have a seal, de
vised by the judges thereof, adescription of which shall be recorded in
the ofﬁce of the secretary of state.
SEC. 1325. (1301.) Terms—4. There shall be two terms of such court
in each year, one commencing on the fourth Monday in May, the
other commencing on the fourth Monday in November; and each term
shall consist of thirty days, and be enlarged if the business~thereof
require it.
SEC. 1326. (1302.) Authority.-—5. Such court shall have authority:
First. To frame, direct, and cause to be used, all process; to estab
lish modes of practice which may be necessary in the exercise of its
authority, and to make regulations respecting the same, and cause
them to be printed. Second. To establish regulations respecting bonds required in ap
peals to such court, the amount of the penalties thereof, and for
approving sureties thereto.
Third. To establish regulations in relation to giving notice to ofﬁ
cers of inferior courts of the granting of stay of execution or of super
aedeas.
Fourth. To establish regulations respecting proceedings which are
requisite in such court in the exercise of its authority, not specially
provided for by law.

SEC. 1327. (1303.) Oaths—Fines for contempt—6. Such court shall
have full power to impose and administer all necessary oaths; to pun
ish by ﬁne and imprisonment for contempt of its authority and process;
and to compel the attendance of witnesses by attachment and ﬁne.
SEC. 1328. (1304.) Chief justice—7. Such judges, at each term, shall
choose one of their number chief justice, who shall preside at the con
sultations of such judges and in court; but no judge shall be chosen to
preside at two terms consecutively, nor until the other judges have
each presided one term.
SEC. 1329. (1305.) When term of oiiice begins—8. Such judges shall
commence their term of ofﬁce on the ﬁrst Monday in January after
their election.

SEC. 1330. (1306.) When judges may try cases—9. Such judges, in
their respective districts, may preside at the trial of any case pending
in any county thereof wherein the circuit judge is incompetent to
preside. 
SEC. 1331. (1307.) Briefs and arguments—1. In all cases which may
be now or hereafter pending in the supreme court, whether upon ap
peal or otherwise, said supreme court may require the parties thereto
to ﬁle, on the submission of such appeal or other proceeding, a written
brief or argument of the points relied on, under such rules as the
court may adopt relative thereto; but in no case shall such party be
required to print any brief or argument, any law or rule of court to
the Contrary notwithstanding: Provided, however, That if the brief is
not legibly written, the court may order its clerk to copy the same,
and tax the costs of such copy, at the rate of ten cents for each one
hundred words, to the party ﬁling the same: Provided, however, That
this act shall not be so construed as to prevent any party, by himself
or attorney, from orally arguing his said cause, if he shall choose 50
to do.

SEC. 1332. (1308. ) Preservation of records—1. Whenever the supreme
court, or a majority of the judges thereof, shall deem it necessary for
the preservation of the records of said court, or any part thereof, from
mutilation or decay, arising from any cause whatever, to have the
same transcribed, they shall make an order directing the clerk of said
court to transcribe said records in suitable books, to be by him pro
cured for that purpose; and said court shall make such reasonable
allowance to said clerk therefore as to them shall seem just and proper;
and such compensation, when so allowed and certiﬁed by a judge of
said court, shall be audited by the auditor of State, and paid as simi
lar allowances in other cases.
SEC. 1333. (1309.) Duty of clerk—2. It shall be the duty of said clerk,
whenever the court shall make such order as herein contemplated, to
procure such books, and transcribe therein such records, or parts there
of, as said court may order, and such records, when so transcribed,
shall have the force and effect of the original records, and transcripts
of the same, or parts thereof, duly certiﬁed by said clerk, under the
seal of said court, shall have the same force and effect as transcripts
of the original records.

SEC. 1334. (1310.) Docket-fee.-5. In every case of appeal to the su
preme court, a docket-fee of four dollars shall be taxed with the other
costs, and recovered from the losing party.

SEC. 1335. (1311.) Clerk shall pay to treasurer.—7. The clerk of the
supreme court shall, within thirty days after the collection of the same,
pay into the treasury of state all docket fees received by him on ac
count of the business of said court, and take a receipt therefore

SEC. 1336. Jridges—J urisdiction.—1. An appellate court is hereby
ated. The name of such tribunal shall be the appellate court of l
ana. It shall be composed of ﬁve judges and have exclusive juri.
tion, subject to the exceptions hereinafter designated, of appeals
the circuit, superior, and criminal courts, in the following class
cases:
First. All appeals in prosecutions for misdemeanors.
Second. All appeals from judgments rendered in cases which 6
nated before a justice of the peace, and in which the amount in
troversy, exclusive of interest and costs exceeds ﬁfty dollars.
Third. All actions seeking the recovery of a money judgmentt
where the amount in controversy, exclusive of costs does not ex
thirty-ﬁve hundred dollars.
Fourth. All actions for the recovery of speciﬁc personal proper
Fifth. All actions between landlord and tenant involving the 1
to the possessionof premises, claimed under a lease, or held by v
or color of such a contract. ‘
Sixth. All cases wherein claims against decedents’ estates are all
or allowance refused.
Save-nth. All cases wherein exceptions are ﬁled to reports of ad
istrators, executors or guardians of infants or insane persons.
Eighth. All cases wherein orders or judgments are given refl
to appoint administrators, executors or guardians of infants or ii
persons.
Ninth. All cases wherein orders or judgments are made or give
movrng or refusing to remove administrators, executors or gum"
of infants or guardians of insane persons or idiots.
Tenth. All cases of bastardy.
In all cases where there is jurisdiction th
court shall be ﬁnal. The exceptions to w
jurisdiction is made are these:
First. The appellate court shall not ha
where the constitutionality of a statute, fe
ity of an ordinance of a munici
e decisions of the app
hich the foregoing gra
ve jurisdiction of an}
deral or state, or the‘
pal corporation 1s in question and
question is duly presented.
second. The appellate court shall not have jurisdiction of $11
equity, hereby meaning by the terms “suits in equity " such ca
were known and recognized prior to the 18th day of, June, 13‘
suits of equitable recognizance, and wherein speciﬁc decrees are ap
propriate and essential.
Third. Where the title to real estate is in issue, the appellate court
shall not have jurisdiction. If it appears that any case which would
otherwise fall within the jurisdiction of the appellate court as herein
deﬁned is within any of the exceptions enumerated, the said court
shall cause to be duly certiﬁed to the supreme court cases thus found
to be within the jurisdiction of the supreme court. All cases found to
be within the jurisdiction of the appellate court, as herein increased
and deﬁned, shall be taken from the docket of the supreme court by
the clerk and transferred to the docket of the appellate court, and to
the transfer of cases the provisions of the act hereby amended con—
cerning the transfer of cases shall apply so far as the same are rele
vant.
SEC. 1337. Jurisdiction—1. That in addition to the jurisdiction which
the appellate court now possesses, that court shall have jurisdiction in
all cases for the foreclosure or enforcement of liens of purely statutory
origin where the amount in controversy does not exceed the sum of
thirty-ﬁve hundred dollars.

SEC. 1338. Appointment of judges—2. Upon the taking effect 0
act, the governor shall appoint the ﬁrst judges of said court, not
than three of whom shall belong to the same political party, ch<
one from each of the districts hereinafter named, to serve until j
_ for said courtshall be elected and qualiﬁed, whenever, for any
a vacancy shall occur in any judgeship of said court, the gm
shall appoint and commission a person to ﬁll such vacancy.
SEC. 1339. Term of oﬁice—Residence.—3. The term of ofﬁce for
judges, except as hereinafter otherwise provided, shall be four
beginning on the ﬁrst day of January next following their elt
Those appointed by the. governor shall serve until the ﬁrst <
January after the next general election and until their success<
elected and qualiﬁed. The legal voters of the state shall, at th
general election, elect their successors. The judges shall be a
main residents of the districts from which they are elected or appc
SEC. 1340. Districts—Term of judges elected—4. The state is d
into ﬁve appellate districts, in each of which one of the judge
no more, shall be a resident; and the counties of Monroe, Owen,
Parke, Morgan, Sullivan, Vigo, Greene, Knox, Daviess, Martir.
bois, Pike, Gibson, Posey, Vanderburgh, Warrick, Spencer,
and Orange shall constitute the ﬁrst district. The counties of
Bush, Switzerland, Dearborn, Shelby, Brown, Lawrence, Cra'
Harrison, Floyd, Clark, Scott, Jefferson, Ripley, Decatur, Bar
mew, Jackson, WaShington and Jennings shall constitute the 5
district. The counties of Tippecanoe, White, Johnson, W
Fountain, Montgomery, Clinton, Boone, Tipton, Hamilton, M
Vermillion, Putman and Hendricks, shall constitute the third di
The counties of Allen, Whitley, Huntington, Wells, Adams, i
Blackford, Delaware, Randolph, Jay, Howard, Madison, Hat
Henry, Wayne, Fayette, Union and Franklin, shall constitu
fourth district. The counties of Lake, Benton, Porter, Lapor
Joseph, Elkhart, Kosciusko, Marshall, Starke, Jasper, N1
Pulaski, Fulton, Wasbash, Miami, Cass, Carroll, Lagrange, Sh
Dekalb and Noble shall constitute the ﬁfth district. The tel
the judges ﬁrst elected shall be as follows: For the ﬁrst distri
(2) years; for the second and third districts three (3) years; f
fourth and ﬁfth districts four (4) years from the ﬁrst day of Js
next ensuing their election; but their successors by election shal
hold for a term of four years except in case of election to ﬁll a va
SEC. 1341. Terms Of judges—1. That the term of each of the jut
said appellate court shall be four years from the ﬁrst day of J8
after his election, and that all of the present judges shall continue to
hold their respective ofﬁces in the districts from which they have been
elected for four years from the ﬁrst day of January, 1893.
[Acts 1891, p. 39. In force February 28, 1891.]
SEC. 1342. Qualiﬁcations of judges—5. No person shall be a judge of
said court unless he be a citizen of the United States, a lawyer in good
standing, a resident of the state for at least ﬁve (5) years preceding
his election or appointment, a voter, and at least thirty (30) years of
age.
SEC. 1343. Clerk and sheriff.—6. The clerk and sheriff of the supreme
court shall he clerk and sheriff respectively of the appellate court.
SEC. 1344. Seal.——7. Said court'shall have a seal, to be provided by the
secretary of state, at the expense of the state, having such device as
the secretary shall determine, and on the face thereof the title of the
court.
- 1345. Compensation of clerk —Fees—-Oollection-—Payment.——8.
The clerk shall receive for his services such fees as may be allowed to
the clerk of the supreme court for like services, to be taxed as costs
and collected in the same manner. That for the additional services
required of the clerk of the supreme court by the provisions of this
act the said clerk shall be entitled to an annual compensation of
three thousand dollars in addition to the compensation now provided
by law, or that may hereafterbe so provided, out of which annual
compensation of three thousand dollars the said clerk shall pay the
compensation of such deputies or assistants as may be necessary to
enable him to discharge the duties imposed upon him by the pro—
visions of this act. Said sum of three thousand dollars shall be col
lected and retained by said clerk out of the fees and costs which accrue
in cases decided by said appellate court; and the remainder of such
costs or fees which accrue in cases decided by said court shall be paid
over as is now, or may hereafter be provided by law, for the payment
of fees and costs collected in cases decided by the supreme court; but
in the event that no act is passed providing for the payment of fees
and costs into the treasury, then the said clerk shall retain all fees
and costs as now provided in respect to fees and costs in cases decided
by the supreme court.
SEC. 1346. Process-Service-Fees,—9. All process, rules and orders
of said court shall be executed and served by the sheriff of the county
to which the same shall be directed, and said sheriff shall be entitled
to the fees allowed by law at the time for like service of process, rules
or orders issuing from the supreme court. .
SEC. 1347. Court of record—Gontempts—Powers—Liens.——10. Said
court shall be a court of record and shall have all the powers of the su
preme court to punish for contempt of its authority, and to enforce its
judgments and orders, which judgments shall be liens, as are judg
ments of the supreme court.
SEC. 1348. Rooms—Furnishiug—Law library.—-11. The custodian of
public buildings and property shall provide rooms for the use of said
judges and said court in Indianapolis, and said court shall have power
to provide the necessary furniture for the same and stationery and
things proper for the transaction of its business, at the expense of the
state, and to make allowances therefore, to be audited and paid out of
the state treasury upon presentation of the order of allowance, and
shall have access to and use the law library of the supreme court
equally with the judges of the su reme court.
SEC. 1349. Appeals—How taken—Fowers of judges in vacation-Prac
ticc.——12. Appeals to said court shall be taken in the manner and
'with the effect and subject to the same limitations and restrictions
provided by law in cases of appeals to the supreme court, and said
court and judges thereof, in vacation or recess, shall have the author
ity possessed by the supreme court or the judges thereof, in vacation
or recess, to stay proceedings, issue injunctions and mandates, and to
do other acts and things in aid of the exercise of its jurisdiction or to
enforce its judgments or orders. The pleadings and practice and pro
ceedings in cases appealed to said court shall be the same as provided
by the supreme court, so far as the same are applicable and not incon
sistent with this act.

SEC. 1350. Opinions—When in writing—Judgments—Certifying—
Effect.—13. In every case reversed, an opinion shall be given upon
the material questions therein in writing, stating the reasons, and judg
ment shall be entered with directions therein to the lower court, as
required of the supreme court in such cases, and the opinion and
judgment shall be certiﬁed to the court below. Judgment of affirm
ance shall likewise be so certiﬁed to the court below. The judgment
of the appellate court, so certiﬁed, shall have the effect pertaining to
a like judgment of the supreme court.
SEC. 1351. Rehearings—Certifying judgments—14. A rehearing may
be prayed in any cause in said appellate court within the time allowed
therefore by the supreme court, and may be granted for sufﬁcient cause,
and the judgment of the appellate court shall not be certiﬁed to the
court below until after the expiration of the time allowed for the peti
tion for a rehearing unless such rehearing be waived in writing.
SEC. 1352. Convening court—Rules.—-15. The chief justice of the su
preme court, assoon as may be, shall convene the judges of the appel
late court, and they shall adopt the same uniform rules of practice as
govern the supreme court.
SEC. 1353. Salaries 0f judges—16. The judges of the appellate court
shall severally receive an annual salary of thirty-ﬁve hundred dollars,
($3,500), payable quarterly, as the salaries of the other state ofﬁcers
are paid out of the state treasury.
SEC. 1354. Judges holding other courts—17. The judges of the appel
late court shall be competent to sit as judges of the circuit, superior
and criminal courts.
SEC. 1355. Chief judgé—Sclection.—-l8. Such judges, at each term, shall
choose one of their number chief judge, who shall preside at the con
sultation of such judges and in court, but no judge shall be chosen to
preside at two terms consecutively, nor until the other judges have
each presided one term.
SEC. 1356. Organization of court—Transfer of causes—19. Said court
shall meet as soon after the taking effect of this act as may be, to or
ganize said court, and make such orders as shall be necessary to put
the court in operation. When the appellate court shall be organized
and ready to proceed with business, the supreme court shall, by an
order entered upon its record, transfer to it all cases then pending in
such supreme court of the nature and description of those of which
_ jurisdiction is by this act given to said appellate court except any such
cases as a judge of said appellate court may be incompetent to sit in, "as
hereinafter provided in section 21, and the said appellate court shall
take jurisdiction thereof, and dispose of the same as if they had been
appealed to such appellate court, and the action of said appellate court
shall have the same force and effect in all respects as if the said cause
had been heard and disposed of by the supreme court.
SEC. 1357. Terms—Convened 0n call.-—20. The terms of said court shall
begin on the fourth Mondays of May and November of each year, and
the court shall sit as long as the business before it shall require; but
whenever, in vacation or recess, and so often as the prompt dispatch
of causes shall require, the court shall convene on the call of the chief
judge.
SEC. 1358. Judges of kin—Counsel in cause—21. If any judge shall be
kin to a party, or interested in a cause, or shall have been counsel
therein, or the judge who rendered the decision below, he shall not sit
therein, and in case of a tie at the other judges, the case shall be cer
tiﬁed to the supreme court, and there decided as it originally appealed
thereto. In all cases a concurrence of three of the judges shall be
necessary and sufﬁcient to decide a cause and to make any order or
certiﬁcate of said court.
SEC. 1359, Hearing and argument.—22. The hearing and argument of
causes in said court shall be in accordance with the rules of the su
preme court as to hearing and argument, or in accordance with such
rules as said appellate court may adopt.
SEC. 1360. Publication of opinions.—'-23. When, in said appellate court,
an opinion is ﬁled,which is to be reported, such opinion shall be pub
lished in manner and form as the reports of the supreme court are
now, or may hereafter be published, and the reporter shall perform
the duties required by virtue of this act as a part of his ofﬁcial duties,
the same as now or hereafter required of him by the law in relation to
his duties in connection with the Supreme Court Reports, and the in
dex and table of cases of the Appellate Court Reports shall be subject
to the supervision and direction of the appellate court, the judges of
which shall be furnished the proof-sheets as reports are being printed,
and such reports shall be called the Appellate Court Reports: I’m
vided, That said appellate court shall decide what opinions shall be
reported and published, and said reporter shall be bound 'by such de
ClSlOn.
SEC. 1361. Docket fee.—24. There shall be taxed to the losing party as
costs in each case a docket fee of four dollars, which, when paid, shall
be paid intothe state treasury.
SEC. 1362. Transfer of causes to supreme court—25. In any case
wherein an appeal has been taken from a lower court to the appellate
court, and the same should have been taken to the supreme court, it
shall be the duty of the appellate court on its own motion to cause
such case to be transferred to the supreme court, and in any cause
where an appeal has been taken to the supreme court when it should
have been to the appellate court, it shall be the duty of the supreme
court, of its motion, to cause such case to be transferred to the appel
late court, and the action of such court in making such transfer shall
be ﬁnal. The appellate court shall be governed in all things by the
law as declared by the supreme court of this state, and it shall not,
directly or by implication, reverse or modify any decision of the su
preme court of this state: Provided, however, That in any case pend
ing in the appellate court, in which said appellate court shall conclude
that any decision of the supreme court should be overruled or modi
ﬁed, it shall be their duty to transfer said cause, with their opinion
of what the law should be held to be, to the supreme court, and the
supreme court shall thereupon have jurisdiction of and decide the en
tire case, the same as if it had original jurisdiction thereof, and it may
either modify, overrule or aiﬁrni its former decision, on that question
as it shall deem right, and such decision of the supreme court shall
be ﬁnal.
SEC. 1363. Duration of court—Transfer of cases—26. The period of
existence of said appellate court shall be six years from the ﬁrst day
of March, 1891, and no longer, at the end of which time the supreme
court shall assume jurisdiction of all causes pending in and other
business of said appellate court as if this act had never-been passed.
SEC. 1364. (1312.) Judge, when elected—Circuit.—1. A judge of the
circuit court shall be elected by the qualiﬁed voters of each circuit
established by law at the general election next preceding the [expira
tion of the] term of ofﬁce of the present judge of such circuit. He
shall be the judge of the several circuit courts within his circuit.
SEC. 1365. (1313.) Terms and style—2. The circuit court shall be
held in the respective counties at such times as may be ﬁxed by law.
Said court shall be styled “-——— circuit court,” according to the
name of the county in which it may be held.
SEC. 1366. (1314.) Jurisdiction—3. Said court shall have original ex
clusive jurisdiction in all cases at law and in equity whatsoever, and
in criminal cases and actions for divorce, except where exclusive or
concurrent jurisdiction is or may be conferred by law upon justices of
the peace. It shall also have exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement
of decedents’ estates and of guardianships: Provided, however, That in
counties in which criminal or superior courts exist or may be organ
ized, nothing in this section shall be construed to deprive such courts
of the jurisdiction conferred upon them by law. And it shall have
such appellate jurisdiction as may be conferred by law; and it shall
have jurisdiction of all other causes, matters, and proceedings where
exclusive jurisdiction thereof is not conferred by law upon some other
court, board, or ofﬁcer.
SEC. 1367. (1315.) May issue certain process—6. They shall have
power to issue and direct all process to courts of inferior jurisdiction,
and to corporations and individuals, which shall be necessary to-the
regular execution of the law.
SEC. 1368. (1316.) May frame new writs—7. Where there shall be oc
casion for any process for which no form is prescribed by law, such
court shall frame a new writ in conformity with the principles thereof.
SEC. 1369. (1317.) POWers.—8. Such court shall have power to make
all proper judgments, sentences, decrees, orders, and injunctions, and
to issue all process, and to do such other acts as may be proper to carry
into effect the same, in conformity with the constitution and laws of
this state. '
SEC. 1370. (1318.) What COHI't has jurisdiction—9. When the subject
matter of any [suit in] such court shall be situate in two or more
counties, the court which shall ﬁrst take cognizance thereof shall re—
tain the same.
SEC. 1371. (1319.) Granting commissions—10. Such court shall also
have power and authority to grant commissions for the examination
of witnesses, according to the regulations of law.
SEC. 1372. (1320.) Seal.—-—11. The circuit court of each county shall
have a seal, a description of which, signed by the judge devising the
same, shall be ﬁled by the clerk, and recorded.
SEC. 1373, (1321.) When may use private seal—12. In all new coun
ties, where seals for the circuit courts thereof have not been devised,
it shall be lawful for the clerks thereof to seal all papers, where the
seals of such courts shall be required by law, with their own private
seals; and the same shall have like force as if they had been sealed
with seals devised by such courts.
SEC. 1374. (1322. ) Oaths—Contempts.——13. The said circuit courts, re
spectively, shall have full authority to administer all necessary oaths,
and to punish, by fine and imprisonment, or either, all contempts of
their authority and process in any matter before them, or by which the
proceedings of the courts or the due course of justice is interrupted.

SEC. 1375. (1323.) Rules—14. The said courts shall adopt rules for
conducting the business therein not repugnant to the laws of this
state; and in everything relating to simplifying and expediting the
proceedings and decisions of causes, presenting distinctly the points
in issue in trials by jury, diminishing costs, and remedying imperfec
tions that may be found to exist in the practice, the rules of such court
shall be in conformity with those prescribed by the supreme court on
the same subject.

SEC. 1376. (1324.) Judges take recognizances.-—15. The judges of
,such circuit courts, within their respective districts, shall take all
necessary recognizances to keep the peace, or to answer any criminal
charge or offense in the court having jurisdiction.

SEC. 1377. (1325.) Failure of judge to attend—~16. There shall be no
discontinuance of any suit, process, matter, or proceeding whatever,
returnable to or pending in any circuit court, by reason of a failure of
the judge to attend on the ﬁrst or any other day of the term.
SEC. 1378. (1326.) Continuance of causes—18. If a court shall not sit
in any term, all matters pending therein shall stand continued until
_ the next term.
SEC. 1379. (1327.) Continuance by adjournment—19. If at the end of
the term of any court, any matters pending therein are undetermined,
the same shall stand continued until the next term.
SEC. 1380. (1328.) EliSOI'.-—20. If at any time, whether during term
-me or in vacation, there shall be no sheriff or coroner to attend, or
if the sheriff and coroner shall both be incapacitated from serving,
such court shall have power to appoint an elisor, to serve during the
pendency of the matter in which such ofﬁcer may be disabled from
serving.
SEC. 1381. (1329.) Duties of elisor.—21. Such elisor shall take thelike
oath and give the like bond and surety as are required of sheriffs; and
shall have the same authority to perform all the duties of the sheriii
which shall relate to the service for which he may be thus specially
appointed; and shall be governed' by the same rules and be subject to
the like penalties and liabilities.
SEC. 1382. (1330.) Record of proceedings—22. It shall be the duty of
the clerk of the circuit court to draw up each day’s proceedings at full
length in the proper order-book of said court, and the judge of said
court shall cause the same to be publicly read in open court, after
which they shall be signed by the judge: Provided, That the judge of
said court shall, at the request of either party to any proceeding or ac
tion, sign such record as soon as the same is drawn up and read in
open court, and no process shall issue on any judgment or decree 0i
court until it shall have been so read and signed.

SEC. 1383. (1331.) Signing proceedings—1. In all cases where business
of any kind has been or shall be transacted by any circuit or superior
judge and put of record, and the judge, from death, resignation, or
,any other cause, has left or may leave the record of such proceeding or
proceedings unsigned, the successor of such judge shall have the same
power and authority to sign such record, at any subsequent term of
the court, as if such record has been made by such judge.

SEC. 1384. (1332.) Reason for adjournment-855. If any judge of the
circuit court shall adjourn the court before having gone through the
business pending, and before the expiration of the time ﬁxed by law,
the record must show the reason for adjournment.
SEC. 1385. (1333.) Adjourned terms—1. If at the close of any term of
the circuit court of any county, or when it shall become necessary or
proper for said court to adjourn from any cause, the business pending
therein shall not be ﬁnished, it shall be lawful for such court to adjourn
until some other certain time, to be speciﬁed in the adjourning order,
of which public notice shall be given in some manner, to be speciﬁed
by said court; and at such time', such court shall meet and continue in
session so long as the business shall require; and such adjourned ses
sion shall be deemed a part of the regular term of such court.

SEC. 1386. (1334.) Special terms—78. If at the close of the terms pre
ceding the summer vacations of said courts, the business of any coun
ty in any of said circuits shall not be completed, it shall be the duty
of the judge of such circuit to hold such special terms, during such
vacation, as shall keep the business of said court fully disposed of.
SEC. 1387. (1335.) Transfer of common pleas jurisdiction—79. Such
circuit courts, in addition to the jurisdiction heretofore exercised by
them, shall also have the same jurisdiction that has heretofore been
exercised by the courts of common pleas; and all laws and parts of
laws concerning said courts of common pleas shall be hereafter con
strued to mean and apply to said circuit courts, so far as the same may
be applicable, and the ofﬁces of common pleas judge and district at
torney are hereby abolished.

SEC. 1388. (1336.) Transfer of common pleas proceedino's.-80. All
matters and business pending in the courts of common pleas on tak
ing effect of this act shall be transferred to and be disposed of by the
circuit courts of the proper counties; and all writs, subpoenas, publi
cations, rules, bonds, recognizances, executions, orders of sale, and
rocess of whatever kind in said courts of common pleas shall be re
turnable to the ﬁrst term of said several circuit courts after the taking
effect of this act, the same as if they had issued out of the said circuit
courts: Provided, That the judges of the common pleas courts having
causes that have been.tried by them under advisement shall render
decisions and complete the record therein at the ﬁrst terms of the cir
cuit courts, held in pursuance of this act, to which such causes have
been transferred.

SEC. 1389. (1337.) Appeals—85. In all cases where appeals are now
authorized by law to be taken exclusively to the courts of common
pleas, the same shall hereafter be taken to the circuit courts.
SEC. 1390. (1338.) Certifying records of common pleas—87. The sev
eral judges and clerks of the circuit courts to which the records and
business of the common pleas courts shall be transferred by this act,
shall have power to certify all transcripts and records necessary to be
authenticated from the records and ﬁles of the said courts of common
pleas.

SEC. 1391. (1339.) Judge incapacitated—Judge pro tempore.—1.
Whenever the judge of any circuit court in the state of Indiana shall,
from sickness, mental incapacity, or otherwise, be rendered incapable
of discharging the duties of his said ofﬁce for a term of nine consecutive
months, the governor of the state, upon the certiﬁcates, under the seal
of their ofﬁce, of the clerks of said court of the several counties com
posing said circuit being ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the secretary of state, set
ting forth the fact of the failure and disability of said judge to discharge
the duties of his ofﬁce as aforesaid, shall appoint some practicing
attorney within said circuit [as] judge p'ro te'mporc of said circuit court
during the continuance of the disability of the judge-elect of said circuit
to discharge the duties of his said ofﬁce, or until the expiration of his
term of ofﬁce, should the disability so long continue.
SEC. 1392. (1340.) Duties of judge pro tempore.—2. Said judge pro
tempore shall take the same oath of ofﬁce as a judge elected to said
ofﬁce; and shall discharge all the duties of the ofﬁce of circuit judge
for and within the circuit for which he is appointed; and shall be in
vested with the same powers and authority as though elected to said
ofﬁce.
SEC. 1393. (1341.) Salary of judge pro tempore.—3. Said judge pro
tempore shall receive for his services at the rate of nineteen hundred
dollars per annum for the time he serves, payable out of the state
treasury, in the same manner that circuit judges receive their salaries;
which sum shall be deducted from the salary of the judge of said cir
cuit.
SEC. 1394. Judicial circuits—Terms of courts—As the judicial circuits
and terms of courts are subject to such frequent changes by the legis
lature, it is deemed advisable to give only a statement as to the circuits
and terms as they now exist.
First Circuit—Vanderbur h and Pose counties.
econd Circuit—Warrick, Spencer and Perry counties.
Terms: Warrick county, lst Mondays of March, June, Sej
and December, 4 weeks, except June term, which is‘2 weeks.
cer county, 1st Mondays of January, April and October and E
day of June, 4 weeks, except June term, which is 2 weeks.
county, 1st Mondays of February, May and November and 3
day of August, 3 weeks, except August term, which is 2 week:
Third Circuit—Harrison and Crawford counties.
Terms: Harrison county, 3d Monday of February, 2d Mc
March, 2d Monday of May, 1st Monday of September and 3d
of November, 5 weeks. Crawford county, 1st Monday of J
3d Mondays of March, June and October, 3 weeks.
The judge of this circuit is required to hold the January
the Dubois circuit court.
Fourth Circuit—Clark and Jefferson counties.
Terms: Clark county, 1st, 12th, 23d and 40th Mondays
year, 6 weeks. Jefferson county, 7th, 18th, 35th and 46th l
of each year, 5 weeks.
' Acts 1893
Fifth Circuit—Abolished.
See State, er “1., v. Friedley, 135 Ind. 119. Acts 1893
Sixth Circuit—Ripley, Jennings and Scott counties.
Terms: Ripley county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Mo
April, 1st Monday of September, and 3d Monday of Nove
weeks. Jennings county, Mondays succeeding courts in
county, 3 weeks. Scott county, on 3d Mondays after begir
terms in Jennings county, 2 weeks.
Seventh Circuit—Dearborn, Ohio and Switzerland counties.
Terms: Ohio county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Mc
April, 1st Monday of September and 3d Monday of Nove
weeks. Dearborn county, on 2d Mondays after beginning of
Ohio county, 5 weeks. Switzerland county, on 5th Mondays
ginning of terms in Dearborn county, 3 weeks.
Eighth Circuit—Rush and Decatur counties.
Terms: Decatur county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, 1st Monday of September and 3d Monday of November, -5
weeks. Rush county on Mondays succeeding courts in Decatur
county, 5 weeks.
Ninth Circuit—Bartholomew. and Brown counties.
Acts 1883, p. 60.
Acts 1873, p.87.
Terms: Bartholomew county, 4th Monday of February, 2d Mon
day of May, 4th Monday of September and 2d Monday of December,
7 weeks. Brown county, 1st Monday of February, 3d Monday of
April, 1st Monday of September and 3d Monday of November, 3 weeks.
Tenth Circuit—Lawrence and Monroe counties.
Acts 1889, p. 427.
Acts 1889, p. 189.
Terms: Lawrence county, 1st Monday of September, 3d Monday of
November, 4th Monday of January and 1st Monday of April. Monroe
county, 2d Monday of October, 3d Monday of December, 1st Monday
of March and 1st Monday of May. The terms in each county may
continue until court commences in the other county, except the May
term, which is 4 weeks.
Eleventh Circuit—Dubois, “Gibson and Pike counties.
Acts 1891, p. 12.
‘ Acts 1891, p. 342.
Terms: Dubois county, 1st Mondays of September and January,
and 4th Monday of April, 1st and 2d terms in each year 3 weeks, and
3d term 2 weeks. Gibson county, on Mondays succeeding courts in
Dubois county, 1st and 2d terms in each year 6 weeks, and 3d term
5 weeks. Pike county, 2d Mondays of November, March and July, 4
weeks.
Acts 1891, p. 342.
The judge of the 3d circuit is required to hold the January term of
the Dubois circuit court. .
Twelfth Circuit—Knox county.
Acts 1891, p. 135.
Acts 1885, p. 119.
Terms: First Mondays of January, March, May, September and
November, and to continue as long as necessary.
Acts 1887, p. 10
Thirteenth Circuit—Putnam and Clay counties.
Acts 1873, p. 87.
Terms: Putnam county, 2d Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, lst Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 5
weeks. Clay county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Putnam, ex
cept the term after the November term in Putnam county shall begin
on the 1st Monday of January, 5 weeks.
Fourteenth Circuit—Greene and Sullivan counties.
Acts Reg. 8088. 1875, p. 41
Acts 1883, p. 13.
Terms: Greene county, 2d Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, 1st Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 5
weeks. Sullivan county, 1st Monday of January and other terms suc
ceeding the courts in Greene county, 5 weeks.
Fifteenth Circuit—Morgan and Owen counties.
Acts 1885, p. 124.
Terms: Morgan county, lst Monday of September, 3d Monday of
November, lst Monday of February and 4th Monday of April, 6
weeks. Owen county. on Mondays succeeding courts in Morgan
county, 4 weeks.
Sixteenth Circuit—Johnson and Shelby counties.
Acts 1873, p.87.
Terms: Johnson county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, lst Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 4
weeks. Shelby county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Johnson
county, 7 weeks.
Seventeenth Circuit—Wayne county.
Terms: 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of April, lst Mon
day of September and 3d Monday of November, and to continue as
long as necessary.
Eighteenth Circuit—Hancock county.
. Acts 1889, p. 29.
Terms: 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of April, 1st Mon
day of September and 3d Monday of November, and to continue as
long as necessary. .
Nineteenth Circuit—Marion county.
Terms: 1st Mondays of September, November, January, March and
May, and to continue as long as necessary.
Twe'ntz'eth Circuit—Boone county
erms: 1st Mondays of January, March, June, September and No
vember, and to continue as long as necessary.
Acts 1883, p. 58.
Twenty-ﬁrst Circuit—Fountain and Warren counties.
Acts 1885, p. 174.
Terms: Fountain county, 1st Monday of September, 3d Monday of
November, 1st Monday of February and 3d Monday of April, 5 weeks.
Warren county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Fountain county,
4 weeks. '
Twenty-second Circuit—Montgomery county.
Acts 1885, p. 29.
Terms: lst Mondays of January, March, May, September and N ovem
ber, 8 weeks.
_ Acts 1885, p. 29.
Twenty-third Circuit—Tippecanoe county.
Acts Spec. Sees, 1877, p. 31.
Terms: 1st Mondays of January and April, and 4th Monday of
September, and to continue as long as necessary, except April term'
ends 3d Saturday of June.
Twenty-fourth Circuit—Hamilton county.
Acts 1893, p. 8.
Acts 1889, p. 11.
Terms.- 1st Mondays of February, April, September and Novem~
ber, and to continue as long as necessary.
Twenty-ﬁfth Circuit—Randolph county.
, Acts 1889, p. 11.
Acts 1885, p.50.
Terms: 1st Mondays of January, March, September and November,
and to continue as long as necessary.
Twenty-sixth Circuit—Adams and Jay counties.
Acts 1885, p. 50.
Acts 1885, p.37.
Terms.- Adams county, 3d Monday of January, 2d Monday of April,
2d Monday of August and 1st Monday of November, 5 weeks. Jay
county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Adams county, 6 weeks.
Twenty-seventh Circuit—JVabash county.
Acts 1885, p. 38.
- Acts 1889, p. 21.
Ternw: 2d Monday of January, 10 weeks; 2d Monday of April, 10
weeks, and 2d Monday of September, 12 weeks.
Twenty—eighth Circuit—*Wells and Blackford counties.
Terms: Wells county, 4th Monday of February, 2d Monday of May,
3d Monday of September, 2d Monday of December, 7 weeks. Black
iord county, on Mondays succeeding terms in Wells county, 4 weeks.
Twenty-ninth Circwrik—Cass county.
Acts 1893, p. 313.
Acts 1881, p. 104.
Terms: 1st Mondays of September, November, January and April.
September and November terms, 8 weeks, and January and April
terms, 12 weeks.
Thirtieth Circuit—Benton, Newton and Jasper counties.
Acts 1881, p. 104.
Acts Spec. Sees, 1877, p. 31.
Terms: Benton county, 4th Monday of January, 2d Monday of
April, 4th Monday of August and 2d Monday of November, 4 weeks.
Newton county, 4th Monday of February, 2d Monday of May, 4th
Monday of September, and 2d Monday of December,3weeks. Jas
per county, 3d Monday of March, 1st Monday of June, 3d Monday of
October, and 1st Monday of January, 3 weeks.
Thirty-ﬁrst CircuiP—Lake and Porter counties.
Terms: Lake county, 1st Monday of September, 3d Monday of No
vember, 1st Monday of February, and 4th Monday ol'April, 5 weeks.
Porter county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Lake county, 5 weeks.
Thirty-second Circuit—41a Porte and St. Joseph counties.
Acts 1889, p. 388.
Terms: La Porte county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, 1st Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 5
weeks. St. Joseph county, on Mondays succeeding courts in LaPorte
county, 4 weeks.
Thirty-third Gimme—Noble and Whitley counties.
Terms: Noble county, 1st Mondays of January, March and 00V)
ber, and 2d Monday of May, 4 weeks. Whitley county, 1st Mondays
of February, April, September and November, 4 weeks.
Thirty-fourth Circuit—Elkliart and Lagrange counties.
Acts 1883, p. 28.
Acts 1883, p. 28.
Acts 1873, p. 88.
Acts 1873, p. 95.
Am 1889, p. 61.
Acts 1889, p. 61
' Acts 1873, p. 86
Terms: Lagrange county, lst Monday'of February, 4th Monday of
April, 1st Monday of September, and 3d Monday of Novembef,4
weeks. Elkliart county, on 4th Mondays after beginning of court in
Lagrange county, 6 weeks.
Thirty-ﬁfth Circuit—De Kalb and Steuben counties.
Acts 1885, p. 95.
Acts 1889, p. 61.
Terms: De Kalb county, 1st Monday of March, 3d Monday of May,
1st Monday of October, and 3d Monday of December, and to continue
until time for beginning of court in Steuben county. Steuben county,
1st Monday of February, 3d Monday of April, 1st Monday of Septem
her, and 3d Monday of November, and to continue until time for
beginning of court in De Kalb county.
Thirty-sixth Circuit—Tipton and Howard counties.
Acts 1873, p. 88.
Acts 1889, p. 61.
Terms: Tipton county, 1st Monday of September, 3d Monday of
November, 1st Monday of February, and 4th Monday of April, 5
weeks. Howard county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Tipton
county, 6 weeks.
Thim ~8eventh Circuit—Franklin, Fayette and Union counties.
Acts 1889, p. 345.
Acts 1883, p. 60.
Terms. Franklin county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, lst Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 4
weeks. Fayette county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Franklin
county, 4 weeks. Union county, on Mondays succeeding courts in
Fayette county, 3 weeks. _ ~
ﬂirty-eighth Circuit—Allen county.
Acts 1883, p. 60.
Acts Reg. Sass, 1875, p. 47.
Terms: 1st Monday of February, 3d Monday of April, 1st Monday
of September, and 3d Monday of November, 10 weeks.
, Acts Reg. Sess., 1875, p. 48.
Thirty-ninth Circuit—Carroll and White counties.
Acts Spec. Sess., 1877, p. 31.
Terms: White county, 1st Monday of September, 4th Monday of
November, 2d Monday of February, and 4th Monday of April, 5 weeks,
Carroll county, on Mondays succeeding courts in White county, 5
weeks.
Acts 1883, p. 32.
Fortteth Circuit—Extinguished. By acts of 1879, p. 118, Steuben
and De Kalb counties formed this circuit, but after October lst, 1880,
such counties became part of the thirty-ﬁfth circuit.
Forty-ﬁrst Circuit—Marshall and Fulton counties.
Terms: Fulton county, 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of
April, 3d Monday of September, and 3d Monday of November, 4 weeks.
Marshall county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Fulton county;
terms succeeding April and September terms of Fulton court, 5 weeks,
and other terms 7 weeks.
Acts 1889, p. 63.
Forty-second Circuit—Jackson, Washington and Orange counties.
Terms: Jackson county, 3d Monday of April, and continue until 3d
Monday of May; last Monday of August, and continue until last Mon
day in September; 2d Monday of November, and continue until 2d
Monday of December; 4th Monday of January, and continue until last
Monday in February. Washington county, 3d Monday of May, and
continue until 3d Monday in June; last Monday in September, and
continue until last Monday in October; last Monday in February, and
continue until 4th Monday in March. Orange county, 4th Monday
in March, 3 weeks; 3d Monday in June, and continue until 3d day of
July; last Monday of October, and continue until 2d Monday of Novem
ber; 2d Monday of January, and continue until 4th Monday of January.
Acts 1893, p. 188.
Forty—third Circuit—Vng county.
Acts 1883, p. 13.
Terms: 1st Mondays of May and September, 4th Monday of Novem
ber and 2d Monday of February. May term 8 weeks, other terms 10
weeks.
Forty-fourth Circuit—Pulaski and Starke counties.
Terms: Starke county, 1st Monday of January, 2d Monday of March,
3d Monday of May and 2d Monday of October, 4 weeks. Pulaski
county, 4th Monday of January, 2d Monday of April, 1st Monday of
September and 2d Monday of November, 5 weeks.
F0rty~ﬁfth Oircuih-Clinton county.
Terms: 1st Mondays of January, March, June, September and No
vember, and to continue as long as necessary.
Forty-sixth Circuit—Delaware county.
Terms: 1st Mondays of January, March, June, September and No
vember, and to continue as long as necessary.
Forty-seventh Circuib-Vermillion and Parke counties.
Terms: Parke county, lst Monday of February, 4th Monday of April,
lst Monday of September and 3d Monday of November, 5 weeks.
Vermillion county, on Mondays succeeding courts in Parke county, 4
weeks.
Acts 1885, p. 29.
Forty-eighth Circuit—~Grant county. _
Acts 1893, p. 313.
Terms: 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of April, 1st Monday
of September, 3d Monday of November, 10 weeks.
. _ _ Acts 1893, p. 313.
Forty-ninth Circuit—Davress and Martin countles.
Acts 1885, p. 119.
Terms: Daviess county, lst Mondays of October, January, March
and May, 5 weeks. Martin county, 1st Monday of September and 2d
Mondays of November, February and April, 3 weeks.
- Acts 1889, p. 9.
‘ Fiftieth Circuit—Madison county.
Acts 1889, p. 11.
Terms: lst Mondays of January, March, May, September and N0
vembcr, and to continue as long as necessary.
Acts 1889, p. 11.
Fifty-ﬁrst Circuit—Miami county. ‘ I
Acts 1889, p. 21.
Terms: 2d Monday of January, 11 weeks; lst Monday of April, 11
weeks; 2d Monday of September, 7 weeks, and let Monday of Novem
ber, 7' weeks.
.Acts 1889, p. 21.
Fifty-second Circuit—Floyd county.
Acts 1889, p. 39.
Terms: 2d Monday of January, 5 weeks; 2d Monday of March, 5
weeks; 2d Monday of May, 6 weeks; and lst Monday of October, to
continue until December 24th.
Fifty-third Circuit—Henry county.
Acts 1893, p. 187.
Acts 1889, p. 29.
Terms: 1st Monday of February, 4th Monday of April, 1st Monday
of September and 3d Monday of November, and to continue as long as
necessary.
Fifty-fourth Circuit—Kosciusko county.
Acts 1889, p. 29.
Acts 1889, p. 61.
Terms: lst Mondays of February, April, September and December,
and may continue until succeeding term.
Fifty-ﬁfth Circuit—Hendricks county.
Terms: 1st Mondays of September, November, January and May,
and may continue as long as necessary.
Fifty-sixth Chroma—Huntington county.
Acts 1889, p. 50.
Acts 1893, p. 313.
Terms: 2d Monday of January, 2d Monday of April, 1st Monday of
September, January and April terms, 12 weeks, September term, 15
weeks.
SEC. 1395. (1342.) Where established—Term of. judges—4- Section
one of the act of February 15, 1871, is hereby re~enacted and revived;
that is to say, that in any county in the state wherein is situated an
incorporated city containing, according to the return of the census
taken under and by authority of the government of the United States
in the year 1870, a population of not less than forty thousand inhabi
tants, there shall be, and is hereby, established a superior court, which
shall consist of three judges, one of whom shall be elected by the
qualiﬁed voters of said cOunty at the next general election after the
assage of this act and every four years thereafter, and two of whom
shall be elected at the second general election after the passage of this
act and every four years thereafter. And said judges, when so elected,
shall hold their respective ofﬁces for the term of four years, if they so
long behave well, and until their and each of their successors are
elected and qualiﬁed: Provided, That nothing in this act shall be con
strued to affect the tenure of the ofﬁces of the other three judges; but
the intent is to abolish the fourth judge, provided for by the act of
March 5, 1877.

SEC. 1396. (1343.) Seal.—-2. The judges of said court shall cause to be
provided a seal for said court, which shall contain on the face the
words, “ Superior Court of County ” (ﬁlling the blank accord
ing to the name of the county), and such device as they may think
proper._ A description of such seal, together with an impression of
the same, shall be spread upon the order-book of said court: Provided,
That until such seal is procured, the clerk may seal with his private
seal, in scroll, all process which, by law, is required to be sealed.
SEC. 1397. (1344.) Clerk and sheriff.—3. The clerk of the circuit court
and the sheriff of the county where such court may be organized shall
be respectively the clerk and sheriff of said court; and for their serv
ices they shall each be entitled to such fees as are or may be allowed
in the circuit court for like services.
SEC. 1398. (1345.) Duties of clerk and sherii'r'.—4. The clerk and sher
iff shall attend said court and discharge all the duties pertaining to
their respective offices as they are now or may hereafter be required
to do, by law, in the circuit court; and all laws now in force, or which
may be enacted, prescribing the duties and liability of such officers,
and the mode of proceeding against them, or either of them, for any
neglect of ofﬁcial duty, allowing fees, and providing for the collection
thereof, in the circuit court, shall be held and deemed to extend to said
superior court, as far as they apply.
SEC. 1399. ( 1346.) Where court to sit.—5. The said court shall hold its
sessions at the court-house of the county, or at such other convenient
place as the board of county commissioners may provide at the county
seat.
SEC. 1400. (1347.) Terms—6. The terms of said court shall commence
on the ﬁrst Monday of each month, except the months of July and
August; but terms of said court may be held in said months for the
transaction of business pending in said court, if directed by said court
at a general term; and the terms of said court shall be called after the
different months in which they are held, and they may be continued
and held from the time of their commencement every day (Sundays
excepted) until and including the Saturday before the ﬁrst Monday of
the succeeding month.
SEC. 1401. (1348-) Adjournments.—7. The judges of said court may
adjourn the same on any day previous to the expiration of the time for
which it may be held and also from any one day in the term over to
any other day in the same term, if in their opinion the business of
the court will admit thereof.
SEC. 1402. (1349.) Term extended, when.--8. Whenever atrial is be
»gun and in progress at the time when, by law, the term of such court
would expire, the term shall be extended until the close of such trial.
SEC. 1403. (1350.) Clerk may adjourn—9. In' case such court shall
not be formed at any time, or any term thereof shall be interrupted
by reason of the non-attendance of two of the judges thereof, it shall
be lawful for the clerk of said court to adjourn the same from day to
day, or until the next term; and all process and other proceedings
shall be continued over accordingly.
SEC. 1404. (1351.) Jurisdiction.--10. Said court, within and for the
county or counties in which it may be organized, shall have original
concurrent jurisdiction with the circuit court in all civil causes except
slander, and except such causes of which the court of common pleas
now [February 15, 1871] has original exclusive jurisdiction;-and
jurisdiction concurrent with the circuit court, in all cases of appeal
from justices of the peace, boards of county commissioners, and may
ors’ or city courts; and all other appellate jurisdiction now vested in
or which may hereafter be vested, by law, in circuit courts; and said
court shall. also have concurrent jurisdiction in all actions by or
against executors and administrators. 

SEC. 1405. (1352.) PrOOess.—ll. The process of said court shall have
the seal afﬁxed, and be tested, directed, served, and returned, and be
in form, as is or may be provided for process issuing from the circuit
court.
SEC. 1406. (1353.) Court of record—12. ,Said court shall be a court of
record and of general jurisdiction; and its judgments, decrees, orders,
and proceedings shall have the same force and effect as those of the
circuit court, and shall be enforced in the same manner.

SEC. 1407. (1354.) Rules—Presiding jud e—Powers.—17. The judges
of said court shall have full power an authority to make and adopt
rules and regulations for conducting the business of the court, not
repugnant to the laws of this state, and to designate one of their num
ber to act as presiding judge; and shall have all the power incident
to a court of record, in relation to the attendance of witnesses, the
punishment of contempts, and enforcing its orders. And the judges
of said court shall each have full authority to administer oaths, take
and certify acknowledgments of deeds, and give all necessary certiﬁ
cates for the authentication of the records and proceedings in said
court.
SEC. 1408. (1355.) Record-books.—20. The clerk shall, under the di
rection of the judges, provide for said court order-books, judgment
dockets, execution—dockets, fee-books, and such other books as may
be necessary; and all the books, papers, and proceedings of said court
shall be kept distinct and separate from those of other courts

SEC. 1409. (1356.) General and special terms—395. When any supe
rior court consists of more than one judge, there shall be held general
and special terms thereof. A general term of such court may be held
by a majority of the judges, and a special term by any one or more of
them; and general and special terms, or one or more of them, may be
held at the same time, as the judges of the court may direct; and
whenever such term or terms are held, they shall be taken and deemed
to have been held by the authority and direction of the judges.
SEC. 1410. (1357.) Process—Authority—Terms.—-396. The said court,
at general-or special term, shall have power to issue and direct all
process to courts of inferior jurisdiction, and to corporations and indi
viduals, which shall be necessary in exercising its jurisdiction, and
for the regular execution of the law; and to make all proper judg
ments, sentences, decrees, orders, and injunctions; and to issue all
process and executions; and to do such other acts as may be necessary
to carry into effect the same, in conformity with the constitution and
laws of the state. The court shall, at such times as the business of
the court may require, meet in general term; and may, at any time,
make such distribution and re-distribution of the business of the court
to special term, as it may deem proper. Each judge holding court at
special term shall transact the business assigned him; but he may, in
his discretion, call one or more of the judges of said court to sit with
him in such special term, for the consideration of any matter pending
before him. Said court, at special term, shall have full power to hear
and dispose of all business distributed to it by the general term; and
it shall, at either special or general term, have the same power to
vacate or modify its own judgments 0r orders, rendered at either spe
cial or general term, and to enter judgments by confession, as is or
may be vested, by law, in circuit courts.
SEC. 1411. (1358.) May grant restraining orders, eta—397. The judges
of said court, or either of them, shall have the same power, in term
or in vacation, to grant restraining orders, injunctions, and write of
as exact; to issue writs of habeae corpus, and of mandate and prohibi
tion; to appoint receivers, master commissioners, and commissioners
to convey real property; and to grant commissions for the examination
of witnesses; and to appoint other officers necessary to facilitate and
transact the business of said court, as is now, or may hereafter be,
conferred on judges of circuit courts.

SEC. 1412. (1359.) Change of venue—398. When any reason for a
change of venue is shown to exist from any of the judges, as in other
cases, the remaining judge or judges alone shall act; but when all are
incompetent to act, the case shall be transferred to the circuit court of
the county.
SEC. 1413. (1360.) Appeal from special to general term—399. In all
cases where, under existing or future laws of this state, a person has
the right of appeal from the circuit court to the supreme court, an ap
peal may be had from a special term to the general term of said su
perior court. The appeal shall be heard and considered in the general
term upon the original papers and records ﬁled and made in the cause
at special term, and such matters as are made part thereof by bills of
exceptions. It may afﬁrm or reverse the judgment of the special
term, or modify it, or render such judgment as may be deemed proper.
It shall, if the judgment of the special term be not afﬁrmed, enter of
record the error or errors found therein, and remand said cause to the
special term, with instructions as to said error or errors; and the spe'
cial term shall carry into effect the instructions of the general term.

SEC. 414, (1361.) Appeal as of right—N0 bond—400. It shall only
be necessary for a party appealing from a special to the general term
to pray an appeal to the general term, and it shall be granted as a
matter of right; and no bond shall be required in such case, unless it
be shown by afﬁdavit to be necessary for the protection of the rights of
parties, in which case bonds shall be given with such conditionsas
may be directed by the court; and such appeal shall stay the proceed
ings upon the action of the special term in the case, and in the man
ner that a stay of proceedings is allowed upon an appeal to the su~
preme court from the circuit court and none other.
SEC. 1415. (1362.) Appeal to supreme court—401. Any party may
appeal to the supreme court from the order or judgment of general
term, in any case where, by existing or future laws of this State, an
appeal may be had from an order or judgment of the circuit court;
and also when a party has had a judgment in his favor in a special
term, and it is reversed or modiﬁed by the general term, upon appeal
to it. The appeal from the general term to the supreme court shall be
regulated by the law regulating appeals from the circuit court to the
supreme court, so far as applicable. An appeal may also be taken to
the supreme court in the same manner and in like cases as from cir
cuit courts, or the judge thereof, when, on account of the incompe
tency of some of the judges, an appeal can not be taken to general
term.

SEC. 416. (1363.) Docket fees—21. The same docket fees shall be
taxed in the said court as are now or may be provided by law to be
taxed in the circuit court; and the said fees, when collected, shall be
paid by the clerk to the treasurer of the county, to be applied in re
imbursing the county for expenses of said court.
SEC. 1417. (1364.) Judge pro tempore.-—1. It, from any cause, either
of the judges of a superior court shall be unable to attend and preside
at any term of said court, or during any part of a term, such judge
may appoint, in writing, any attorney eligible to the ofﬁce of such
judge under the law of appointment by circuit judges, or any other
judge of a court of record of this state, to preside at such term or part
of term. In the absence or failure of such judge to make such ap
pointment, the other judges of said court may make such appoint
ment. Such written appointment shall be entered of record in said
court; and if the appointee is not a judge of a court of record he must
be sworn; and such appointee shall have the same power and authority
during the continuance of his appointment as a regularly elected
judge of said court, and shall receive the same compensation now
allowed by law to persons appointed in cases of sickness of a judge of
a circuit court.
SEC. 1418. (1365.) Supreme court reports—2. For each county where
a superior court is organized, four additional copies of the reports of
decisions of the supreme court hereafter published shall be supplied
to the secretary of state, to be distributed to such county in the man
ner now provided by law for copies for the use of other courts

SEC. 1419. (E. S. 266. ), Claims against state—Where suit my be
brought—1. That any person or persons having or claiming to have
a money demand against the state of Indiana, arising at law or
equity, express or implied, accruing within ﬁfteen years from the
time of the commencement of the- action, may bring suit against the
state therefore, in the superior court of Marion county, Indiana, by ﬁl
ing a complaint with the clerk of the said court, and procuring a
summons to be issued by said clerk, which summons shall be served
upon the attorney-general of Indiana, thirty days before the return
day of the summons; and jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon said
superior court of Marion county, Indiana, to hear and determine such
actions; and said court shall be governed by the laws, rules and regu
lations which govern said superior court' in civil actions in the mak
ing up of issues, trial and determination of said causes, except that
the same shall be tried by all the judges of said court sitting together
without a jury.

SEC. 1420. (E. S. 267.) Suit unauthorized in certain cases—2. This act
shall not authorize any person to bring suit against the state of Indi
ana upon any obligation described in section 7 of article 10, of the
constitution of Indiana.
SEC. 1421- (E- S- 268-) Limitations—3. All actions which may here
after accrue shall be governed by and be subject to the statute of
limitations in force in this state; but the statute of limitations shall
begin to run from the passage of this act, as to right of actions here
tofore accruing.
SEC. 1422- (E- S- 269-) Attorney-general t0 defend—4. It shall be the
duty of the attorney-general of state, in person or by deputy, to defend
and represent the interests of the state in said superior court of Marion
county, Indiana, and also in the supreme court on appeal.
SEC. 1423. (E. S. 270.) Appeal.-—5. In all such actions either party
may appeal directly to the supreme court, under the same rules, regu
lations and-restrictions which govern in cases of appeals from the
circuit courts of this state to the supreme court -of the state in civil
causes, except that the state may appeal without bond.
SEC. 1424. (E. S. 271.) N0 execution—Appropriation.—6. Whenever
by ﬁnal decree or judgment of said superior court of Marion county,
Indiana, or the supreme court, a sum of money is adjudged to be due
any person from the state of Indiana, no execution shall issue thereon,
but said judgment shall draw interest at the rate of 6 per cent. per
annum from the date of the adjournment of the next ensuing session
of the general assembly until an appropriation shall have been made
by law for the payment of the same and said judgment paid.
SEC. 1425. (E. S. 272.) Governor may employ c0unsel.—-7. \Vlienever,
in the opinion of the governor, the interests of the state require it, he
may employ counsel to assist the attorney-general in the defense of any
suit brought against the state, and may pay such counsel out of any
funds at his disposal appropriated for that purpose.
SEC. 1426. Terms of superior courts—
Allen County—2d Monday of January, 1st Monday of April, 2d
Monday of September, 2d Monday of November, and to continue as
long as necessary.
Marion County—lst Mondays of each month except July and August,
and to continue until next succeeding term.
Acts 1871, p. 48.
Tippecanoe County—1st Monday of January, 2d Monday of March,
2d Monday of May, 4th Monday of September, and to continue as long
as necessary, except the May term ends 3d Saturday of June.
Vanderburgh County—1stMondays of March, June, September and
December, and to continue as long as necessary.
Acts 1893, p. 7.
' Acts 1881, p. 17.
Vigo County—1st Mondays of September, December, March and
June, and to continue as long as necessary.

SEC. 1427, (1366.) Organization—SeaL—l. There shall be organized,
in such counties as may be designated by law, a court, to be called the
criminal court of county (according to the name of the county).
Such court shall be a court of record, and have a seal and device, as
the judge thereof may choose, and the name of the county on the face
thereof; and a description and impression thereof shall be spread on
the order-book of the court.
SEC. 1428. (1367.) Officers—2. Said court shall consist of one judge,
to be elected by the legal voters of the county or district for the term
of four- years, and until his successor shall be elected and qualiﬁed;
which election shall be had at the next general election after the crea
tion of such court, and every four years thereafter. The clerk of the
circuit court and the sheriff of the county shall be clerk and sheriff of
such criminal court, and the prosecuting attorney of the circuit shall.
by himself or his deputy, prosecute the pleas of the state in said court.
Said judge shall be commissioned by the governor in the same manner
as judges of the circuit courts; and all vacancies occurring in the of
ﬁce of judge of such criminal court shall be ﬁlled, by appointment by
the governor, in the same manner as vaCancies in the office of judge
of the circuit court.
SEC. 1429. (E. S. 277.) Judge pro tem.--1. That if, from any cause,
any judge of a criminal court shall be unable to attend and preside at
any term of said court, or during any part of a term, such judge may
appoint, in writing, any attorney eligible to the ofﬁce of such judge,
or any other judge of a court of record in this state, to preside at such
term, or part of a term. Such written appointment shall be entered
of record in said court, and if the appointee is not a judge of a court
of record, he shall take the same oath required by law of judges of the
criminal court, and such appointee shall have the same power and
authority during the continuance of his appointment as a regularly
elected judge of said court.
SEC. 1430. (E. S. 278.) Compensation—2. Whenever any person shall
be appointed judge pro tem. under the rovisions of this act, he shall
be entitled to ﬁve dollars for each day he may serve as such judge, to
be paid out of the county treasury, where such criminal court is held,
upon the warrant of the county auditor, based upon an allowance
made therefore by the board of county commissioners. Any amount
allowed to any judge pro tem. during any year shall be deducted by
the board of county commissioners from the regular annual salary of
the judge of such criminal court making the appointment, except
here such judge pro tem. shall be appointed on account of change of
venue, relationship, interest as former counsel, or absence of judge in
case of serious sickness of himself or family.
SEC. 1431, (1368.) Where held—3. Said criminal court shall be held
in the court-house of the county, or at such other place at the county
seat as the board of commissioners of the county may provide. Said
court shall, in all things not otherwise provided by‘law, be governed
by the law concerning circuit courts.
SEC. 1432.v (1369.) Jurisdiction—4. Such criminal court shall have
original exclusive jurisdiction, within the county, of all crimes and
misdemeanors, except where jurisdiction is by law conferred on jus
tices of the peace; and such appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases as
may, by law, belong to the circuit court in the counties having no
criminal court.

SEC. 1433. (1370.) Criminal causes to be transferred—5. Upon the
organization of a criminal court in any county, all criminal causes
pending in the circuit court of such county shall be transferred to such
criminal court. And all warrants, subpoenas, rules, orders of court,
and other process which may have issued from the circuit court of
such county, in criminal causes, shall be returnable to the criminal
court upon the ﬁrst day of the ﬁrst term thereof to be holden; and said
criminal court shall have jurisdiction thereof, and proceed therein;
and all proceedings in criminal causes in said court shall be con
ducted as proceedings are or may be required, by law, to be conducted
in the circuit court in counties having no criminal court.
SEC. 1434. (1371.) When judge may hold other courts—6. Any judge
of a criminal court shall be competent to act as judge of any circuit or
superior court upon the trial of any cause or proceeding, whether civil
or criminal, when the judge of said circuit or superior court may be
incompetent to try the cause; or a change of venue may be granted
for objection to the judge thereof.
SEC. 1435. (1372.) Marion, Allen, and Vigo courts.——Terms.—7. Crim
inal courts are hereby established in each of the counties of Marion,
Allen, and Vigo. Said court in the county of Marion shall commence
its terms on the ﬁrst Mondays of January and July of each year; and
in the counties of Allen and Vigo, on the ﬁrst Mondays of April and
October. In the said counties of Marion, Allen, and Vigo, respec
tively, the terms of said court shall continue six months, if the busi
ness shall require it, and during such terms such courts, respectively,
shall, at all times, be open for criminal trials and proceedings.

SEC. 1436. (1373.) Name changai.—-8. The criminal circuit courts of
the several counties named in the last preceding section shall become
criminal courts 'under this act; and the judges and prosecuting attor
neys thereof, respectively, shall be the judges and prosecuting attor
neys of the courts hereby created in said counties, respectively, until
the expiration of their respective terms of ofﬁce; and the criminal
courts hereby created shall proceed with the business of the said crim
inal circuit courts of said counties, respectively, in the same manner
as if no change had been made: Provided, however, That the said crim
inal court in Vigo county shall cease to exist after the third Monday in
November, 1882. 
SEC. 1437' (1374') salary of supreme judges—1. There shall be al
lowed to each of the judges of the supreme court an annual salary of
four thousand dollars, payable quarterly out of any monies in the
treasury belonging to the general fund not otherwise speciﬁcally ap
propriated by law; and such salary 1s alloWed from the ﬁrst day of
January, 1873.
SEC. 1438. Salary of circuit and superior judges—1. That the salaries
of the judges of the circuit and superior courts of this state shall be
twenty-ﬁve hundred dollars annually, payable quarterly out of the
state treasury: Provided, That in all judicial circuits of this state con
taining any city which had a population of more than thirty thousand,
as shown by the last preceding United States census, whenever twenty
or more resident freeholders of the county in which such city is situ
ated shall, by their petition, ﬁled with the board of commissioners of
such county, represent that the annual salary of the judge of said cir
cuit or superior court, as otherwise provided by law, is not an ade
quate compensation for the services of such judge, and should be in
creased in a sum to be speciﬁed in such petition, then it shall be the
duty of the board of commissioners of such county, in open session,
without delay, and at either a regular or special term of such board,
to consider such petition and hear evidence thereon, and thereupon
within the limits of such evidence, but in no event in excess of the
sum of ﬁfteen hundred dollars, or in excess, of the sum speciﬁed in
such petition, such board of commissioners may, by entry of record,
ﬁx and allow a certain sum as an addition to or increase of the annual
salary of the judge of such circuit or superior court.
SEC. 1439. Payments by count —Action of board—2. Upon such al
lowance being made by such card of commissioners the sum so al
lowed shall be payable only out of the treasury of the county in which
such petition is required to be ﬁled, and shall be payable quarterly
upon warrants drawn by the auditor of such county upon the treas
urer thereof, and from and after the date of such allowance by such
board the same shall be held as an addition to the annual salary of
such judge, as otherwise ﬁxed and provided by law, and shall not be
diminished during the term of ofﬁce of such judge; and any such al
lowance, and the proceedings of any board of commissioners in rela
tion thereto, if in compliance with the provisions of this act, shall be
ﬁnal and conclusive.
SEC. 1440. (1376.) Salary of criminal judges—3. There shall be al
lowed to each of the judges of the criminal courts, annually, two
thousand dollars, to be paid quarterly out of the treasury of the coun
ties in which said courts are established: Provided, That in all
counties having cities with a population of forty thousand, the salary
of said criminal court judges shall be twenty-ﬁve hundred dollars, to
be paid quarterly out of said county treasury as aforesaid.

SEC. 1441. (1378.) Salary of law librarian—~12. The salary of the law
librarian shall be twelve hundred dollars per year.
SEC. 1442. (1379.) Term prolon ed to ﬁnish trial—1. That if at the
expiration of the time ﬁxed by aw for the continuance of the term of
any court the trial of a cause shall be progressing, said court may con
tinue its sitting beyond such time, and require the attendance of the
jury and witnesses, and do, transact and enforce all other matters
which shall be necessary for the determination of such cause; and in
such case, the term of said court shall not be deemed to be ended until
the cause shall have been fully disposed of by the court.
SEC. 1443. (1380.) Adjourned terms—260. When the business pending
in any of the courts of this state shall remain undisposed of at the close
of any term of court, the judge may adjourn the court to any other time
in vacation (of which notice shall be published in some newspaper of
general circulation in the county),and at such adjourned time procetd
with the business of the court, as a part of the regular term of said
court at which the adjournment was ordered; and all parties, witnesses,
jurors and officers shall attend as they were required to do at the regu~
lar term. Where changes of venue are taken from the presiding judge,
or he is otherwise incompetent to sit in causes, all such cases as re
quire some other jud e to try the same may be set for trial at such
adjourned term, with a 1 other causes. And such adjourned term may
be had to try causes on change of venue only; or any special cases,
only, may be set for any adjourned term. And such adjourned term
may be held for the transaction of business during the pleasure of the
court while the business requires it; but the judge shall not be.pre'
eluded from ﬁxing any case for trial during any regular term, when
the venue is changed from the judge.
SEC. 1444. (1381.) Absence of judge—Special judge—261. If during
any session of court, by reason of eath, sickness or other casualty, any
judge shall be prevented from presiding, .so that the court will lapse;
and if at any term of court the judge shall fail to attend, or during the
term shall fail to appear for any period of three days,-—the sheriff may
adjourn the court from day to day. And on failure to so appear dur
eng the term, the clerk, sheriff and auditor (and in case of the absence
of either, either two, with the recorder of the county) may elect any
competent and reputable attorney to act as judge; who, if he accept,
shall qualify as other judges, and his appointment, with the reason
therefore, and his oath shall be spread on the order-book. And such
judge, so selected, may preside until the return‘of the regular judge,
or in case of death, until his successor be named. And in any
case of vacancy during term, or if the judge be re uired to be absent
during term, such appointment may be made unti a successor shall
be named by the proper authority.
SEC. 1445. (1382.) When sheriﬁ adjourns from day to day—262.
Should it happen that any adjourned term of court, presided over by
a judge appointed for the purpose, be extended so as to include the
time set apart for the court in an other county of that circuit, the
resident judge may proceed to hofd the court in such other county
while such adjourned term is being held; and should the resident
judge be presiding at an adjourned term, and the trial of any cause
should extend the term so as to reach into the time_for court in any
other county of the circuit, the trial may be concluded, and the sheriff
in such other county shall adjourn the court from day to day until the
trial of such cause is concluded, and the appearance of the presiding
judge of said court, unless he shall not appear by the end of the third
day, in which case a judge may be selected by the clerk, sheriff and
auditor, as in the preceding section provided, to preside until the ap
pearance of the resident judge.

SEC. 1446. (1383.) When special judge selected—4. It shall be com
petent for the regular judge of a court, in all cases where he can not
preside, to order that a judge be appointed as follows: He shall name
three competent and reputable attorneys. The plaintifff shall strike
out the name of one, the defendant the name of one, and the person
whose name remains shall be appointed judge in such case: Provided,
however, That if either party fail or refuse to strike off the name of the
attorney selected, such judge may do so for him, and the appointment
and oath shall be ﬁled and entered of record. It shall be competent
for parties to a cause to agree upon some person to try the same where
the presiding judge is incompetent, and, in such case, the agreement
may be presented to the court, be ﬁled with the clerk, and such per—
son shall be appointed by the court, and be qualiﬁed as hereinbefore
provided; but such agreement may not be made in case a judge has
otherwise been appointed to hold a term, or any part thereof, who is
competent to try the cause.
SEC. 1447. Appointment of judge pro tem.—4. If, from any cause, any
judge of a circuit court shall be unable to attend and preside at any
term of said court, or during any day or part of such term, such judge,
or in his absence, or when he shall be unable to make such appoint
ment, the clerk, auditor, and sheriff of the proper county, or a ma
jority of them, may appoint, in writing, any other judge of a court of
record of this state, or any attorney thereof eligible to the ofﬁce of
such a judge, to preside at such term, or during any day or part of
said term. Such written appointment shall be entered on the order
book of such court, and such appointee shall, after being sworn, if he
be not a judge of a court of record, conduct the business of such court,
subject to the same rules and regulations that govern circuit courts in
other cases, and shall have the same authority, during the continu
ance of his appointment, as the judge elect, or making such appoint
ment. Such appointee shall be allowed four dollars, if not otherwise
paid, for every day he shall so serve, and in going to and returning
from the place of holding such court, to be paid out of the annual
compensation of such circuit judge, upon a certiﬁcate of the number
of days served, signed and attested by the clerk of such court, being
presented to the auditor of state, who shall issue his warrant on the
state treasury for the amount due such appointee: Provided, That if
the absence of said judge be caused by his sickness, such appointee
shall be paid a like amount, and in like manner, as provided for the
payment of appointees in section second hereof.

SEC. 1448. (1384.) Special judges in vacation—866. Whenever, in
vacation, the judge of any court is asked to grant an interlocutory or _
special order, and such judge is interested in the cause or incompe
tent, he shall take no other steps in such matter except to ﬁx another
time and place for such hearing, and call some other judge to act in
such proceeding. Or if it shall be difﬁcult, in the opinion of such
judge, for any cause, to procure the attendance of another judge, such
judge, in order to prevent delay, may appoint any competent and dis
interested attorney of this state to act as judge in such proceeding,
who, if he consent to act, shall be qualiﬁed-as other judges; and his
appointment and oath shall be ﬁled with the papers in such proceed
ing. And such judge or attorney, so called or appointed, shall have
the same power, during such vacation, to hear and determine such
matter, and grant or refuse the order prayed for, as if he were the'
regular judge of said court.
SEC. 1449. (1385.) Jury commissioners—Oath—Instructions.—1. The
circuit court shall, during the last term beginning in each-calendar
year, appoint for the next calendar year two persons as jury commis
sioners, who shall be freeholders and voters of the county, well known
to be of opposite politics, and of good character for intelligence,
morality and integrity, and cause them to appear and take an oath or
afﬁrmation in open court, to be entered of record upon the order
book of the court in the following form: “ You do solemnly swear (or
afﬁrm) that you will honestly, and without favor or prejudice, per
form the duties of jury commissioners during your term of ofﬁce; that,
in selecting persons to be drawn as jurors, you will select none but per
sons whom you believe to be of good repute for intelligence and
honesty; that you will select none whom you have been or may be re
uested to select; and that, in all of your selections, you will endeavor
to promote only the impartial administration of justice.” The court
shall thereupon instruct them concerning their duties.
SEC. 450. (1386.) Selection of names for jurors—2. Said commis
sioners shall immediately, from the names of legal voters and citizens
of the United States on the tax duplicate of the county for the current
year, proceed to select, and deposit in a box to be furnished by the
clerk for that purpose, the names, written on separate slips of paper,
of uniform shape, size and color, of twice as many persons as will be
required by law for grand and petit jurors in the courts of the county,
for all the terms of such courts to commence within the calendar year
next ensuing. Such selection shall be made, as nearly as may be, in
equal numbers from each county commissioner’s district. In making
such selections, they shall, in all things, observe their oath; and they
shall not select the name of any person who is not a voter of the
county, or who is not either a freeholder or householder, or who is to
them known to be interested in or has a cause pending which may be
tried by a jury to be drawn from the names so selected. They shall
deliver the box, locked, to the clerk of the circuit court, after having
deposited therein the names as herein directed. The key shall bere
tained by one of the commissioners not of the same politics of the clerk.
SEC. 1451. (E. S. 291.) Selection and qualiﬁcation of jurors—1. That
it shall not be lawful for any ofﬁcer or ofﬁcers, or jury commissioner or
commissioners, charged with the selection of a panel of petit jurors to
serve in any circuit court, superior court or criminal court of this
.state, to select any person to serve as a juror in either of said courts
who has served as a juror in either of said courts in such county dur
ing the year immediately preceding such selection; and it shall be
unlawful for any ofﬁcers of either of said courts to select any person
to serve as a talesman upon any jury therein who has served as a juror
in either of said courts of the county during the year immediately
preceding such selection; and-should any person be selected as such
juror contrary to the provisions of this act, it shall be a sufﬁcient cause
for challenge.
SEC. 1452. (1387.) Grand and etit, how drawn—3. Within a period
not more than one week prece ing the commencement of any term of
any criminal court, or circuit court where there is no criminal court
authorized, the clerk, having ﬁrst well shaken the box, shall open the
same, and draw therefrom six names of competent persons, who shall
be summoned as the grand jury for such ensuing term; and he shall
issue a venire therefore as the court or judge, in vacation, may direct.
He shall, at the time of drawing such grand jury, enter a list of the
names so drawn upon the order~book of the court, and annex his cer
tiﬁcate of the fact. He shall also, within the same period preceding
any term of the circuit, superior or criminal court, in the same man
ner, draw for each of such courts, respectively, twelve names of persons
as petit jurors for such courts, respectively, at such terms; and ne
shall record and certify such drawing upon the proper order-books of
such courts, respectively, as is required concerning the grand jury;
and he shall issue venires for such juries as such courts, or the judges
thereof in vacation, may direct. In counties where the superior court
may have more than one judge, said clerk shall, if so directed by such
court or judges, in like manner, draw one or more additional petit
juries for such court at any term. After a petit jury has served four
weeks during any term of court, such court may, in its discretion,
discharge it, and direct the clerk in the same manner, at any time, to
draw another petit jury, and summon. the same.

SEC. 1453. (1388.) Special venire—New names.— 4. Whenever any
such court shall be of the opinion that, by reason of numerous chal
lenges in any cause, a special venire should issue for jurors, it shall
direct the clerk to draw from said box such number of names as shall
be deemed proper; and the persons so drawn shall be summoned by
virtue of such special venire. If by reason of such special drawing
or otherwise the names in such box shall be exhausted, so that any of
the courts of the county can not be furnished with juries at any term
during the calendar year, the circuit court, or judge thereof in vaca
tion, shall, by order, require such jury commissioners, at a time to be
ﬁxed, to deposit in said box such additional number of names as said
court or judge shall name in the order, and they shall be selected un
der the rules and regulations prescribed in section two [§ 1386], and
the box shall then be delivered to the clerk, as in that section pro
vided, to be drawn by the clerk as may be necessary under the provis
ions of the preceding section.

SEC. 1454. (1389.) Clerk (“.0 keep bOX locked—5. The clerk shall keep
said box securely locked, and the same shall not be opened except for
the deposit and drawing of names as above required; and any failure
of the clerk to perform this duty shall be a contempt of the circuit
court, and be punished summarily by the court.“
SEC. 1455. (1390.) Jury commissioners for 188l.—6. For the calendar
year 1881 such jury commissioners shall be appointed at the first term
of the circuit court which may be in session after this act takes effect.
SEC. 1456. (1391.) Wh0 ineligible—Failure t0 act. -— 7. No person
shall be appointed a jury commissioner who at the time is party to or
interested in a cause pending in the county which may be tried by a
jury to be drawn during the calendar year next succeeding his ap
pointment. Any person appointed a jury commissioner, who shall fail
to take upon himself said ofﬁce, or, having accepted the same, shall
fail, without good cause, to discharge any of the duties thereof, shall
be deemed guilty of contempt of the court, and shall be summarily
punished by a ﬁne of not less than ﬁve nor more than one hundred
dollars.
SEC. 1457. (1392.) Vacancies—Pay.—8. Should a vacancy occur in
the‘oﬂ‘ice of jury commissioner at any time, or should any such com~
missioner fail to act when required, the circuit court, or judge thereof
in vacation, shall appoint a person to ﬁll such vacancy or to act for
the time being, as the case may require, who shall take the oath re
quired by this act. For the time actually employed in the perform
ance of his duties, each jury commissioner shall be allowed by the
court three dollars per day; and, upon such allowance, the county
auditor shall draw his warrant, and the same shall be paid out of the
county treasury.
SEC. 1458. (1393.) Qualiﬁcations of jurors—9. To be qualiﬁed as a
juror, a person must be a resident voter 0f the county and a freeholder
or householder.

SEC. 1459. (1394.) Jury fee—Pay of jurors—~10. In causes tried by
jury, a jury fee of four dollars and ﬁfty cents shall be taxed as costs in
favor of the county.‘ Jurors, grand and petit, shall be paid two dol
lars per day while in actual attendance, and ﬁve cents for each mile
necessarily traveled.
SEC. 1460. (1395.) Juror who has served within one year—Peremptory
challenge—2. It shall not be lawful for any ofﬁcer or ofﬁcers charged
with the selection of a panel of petit jurors to serve in any circuit
court, superior court, or criminal court of this state, to select any per
son to serve as such juror who has served as a juror in either of said
courts in such county during the year immediately preceding such se
lection; and it shall be unlawful for any ofﬁcer of either of said courts
to select any person to serve as a talesman upon any jury therein who
has served as a juror in either of said courts of the county during the
year immediately, preceding such selection; and should any perSOll be
selected contrary to the provisions of this act, it shall be a sufﬁcient
cause for peremptory challenge.

SEC. 1461. (1396.) Jury from bystanders-4. In all cases when the
proper ofﬁcers have failed or refused to draw and impancl a traverse
jury, or where, for any other cause whatever, no traverse jury shall
be present at any term of the court, it shall be lawful, and is hereby
made the duty of the circuit court, if the business thereof require it,
to order the sheriff to summon a jury from the bystanders or citizens
of the county; which said jury, when so empaneled, shall be and con
stitute the regular panel for such term at which they may have been
so selected.
SEC. 1462. (1397.) Master commissioner.--412. The judges of the cir
mtt- . . . . . .
cult courts in their respective counties shall appomt at least one master
,1... commissioner in each county of his circuit, who shall be a resident of
will"; the county seat, and as many more as such judge may deem necessary,
who shall be competent attorneys in good standing, and who shall re
ceive their appointment in writing from the judge making the same,
and shall continue in ofﬁce until removed by the court.
SEC. 1463. (1398.) Oath—413. Every person appointed a master com
missioner shall take the oath required by the constitution and laws of
this state, before he shall proceed to discharge any of the duties of his
ofﬁce; and such oath shall be entered at full length on the order-book
of the court for which he may be appointed.
SEC. 1464. (1399.) May sell lands.—414. Every master commissioner
in shall, under the direction of the court, have power to sell and convey
ed real estate.
pay 1465. (1400.) Powers—415. Such master commissioners are em
‘ortﬂ" powered to administer all oaths and afﬁrmations which are required by
law; to take and certify afﬁdavits and depositions; to issue subpoenas
for witnesses whose testimony is to be taken before them; and shall
have the same power to compel the attendance of witnesses and to pun
.Perllif ish contempts as is given to justices of the peace.

SEC. 1466. (1401.) Subpoenas and process.—416. All subpoenas and
process necessary to the exercise of the duties of a master commis
sioner shall be executed and returned by the sheriff or any constable
w; of the county to whom the same may be directed.
SEC. 1467. (1402.) Fees and allowances.——417- Such master commis
Il‘lif,’ sioner shall be allowed the same fees as other ofﬁcers for similar serv
ices; and where no fees are speciﬁed, the court shall make such allow
Lilli}, ancestor the service performed as shall be just and reasonable; and
W all such costs shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case in which
they may have accrued.

SEC. 1468. (1403.) Further powers and duties—418. Such master com
missioners shall have the powers and discharge the duties, herein men
tioned, which have heretofore been performed by masters in chancery,
so far as the same may be donsistent with existing laws.
SEC. 1469. (1404.) May grant injunctions, eta—419. Whenever the
ofﬁce of judge shall become vacant, or, in case of the absence of all
the judges competent to act, or whenever such judge or judges, by rea
son of interest, is or are incompetent to act, or unable by reason of
sickness, such master commissioner shall have all the power of any
judge in vacation, to grant restraining orders, injunctions, writs of
habeaa corpus, and writs of no ezeat, and to appoint receivers, and hear
and determine all motions and matters, and make all orders concern
ing the same.

SEC. 1470. (1405.) Short-hand reporter.—1. For the purpose of facili
tating and expediting the trial of causes, the judge or judges, or a
majority of them, of the circuit, criminal, and superior courts of each
and every county of this state may appoint one or more short-hand
reporters to take down, in short-hand,the evidence, and to note pro
ceedings in the trial of causes pending in such courts, whenever, in
the opinion of the judge presiding at the trial of a cause, the evidence
ought to be so taken down and the proceeding so noted, or when the
parties to the cause agree that the same shall be done. No person
shall be ineligible to such office on account of sex.

SEC. 1471. (1406.) Oath—2. Before proceeding to exercise his ofﬁce,
such reporter shall take an oath, before some officer empowered to ad
minister oaths, faithfully to perform his duties.
SEC. 1472. (1407.) What he must report.—3. -It shall be his duty to
be promptly present whenever he shall be required by any judge of
such court or courts of his county, and to take down accordingly, in
short-hand, the oral evidence delivered in the cause, including both
questions and answers; and to note all rulings of the judge in respect
to the admission and rejection of evidence, and the objections and ex
ceptions thereto.
SEC. 1473. (1408.) When must furnish transcript—4. Whenever, in
any cause, such reporter shall be requested by either party to furnish
to such party a transcript of the evidence or any part thereof, it shall
be his duty to furnish the same, written in a plain, legible, long
hand, as soon after being requested as practicable; provided, that the
reporter may require payment for such transcript, or the same satis
factorily secured to him, before he proceeds to do the work required
of him.

SEC. 474. Poor persons—Court may order transcript—1. That any
poor person desiring to appeal to the supreme court or appellate court
of this state from the decision of any circuit court or criminal court
or the judge thereof, in criminal cases, and not having sufﬁcient
means to procure the long-hand manuscript, or transcript of the evi
dence taken in short-hand, by the order or permission of any of said
courts or the judge thereof, the court or the judge thereof shall direct
the short-hand reporter to transcribe his short-hand notes of evidence
into long-hand, as soon thereafter as practicable, and deliver the same
to such poor person: Provided, The court or the judge thereof is satis
ﬁed that such poor person has not sufﬁcient means to pay said re
porter for making said long-hand manuscript or transcript of evidence,
and such reporter may charge such compensation as is allowed by law
in such cases for making and furnishing said long-hand manuscript,
which service of said reporter shall be paid by the court or judge
thereof out of the proper county treasury. 

SEC. 1475. (1409.) Compensation—5. The compensation of such of
ﬁcial reporters shall be as follows: He shall be allowed a compensa
tion to be ﬁxed by the presiding judge of not more than ﬁve dollars
per day for each day actually employed in court in the taking of testi
mony, which shall be certiﬁed, audited and paid in like manner as is
provided by law for the payment of the sheriff for attending upon the
court,'in cases where the presiding judge, upon his own motion. by
reason of the importance of the case, has appointed such reporter to
take the evidence therein; but when such appointment has been made
by agreement of the parties to a cause, the fees of such reporter shall
be taxed as a part of the costs in such case, to be paid by‘ the losing
party, and not out of the county treasury. Said ofﬁcial reporter may
also charge and collect as fees ten cents per folio of one hundred words
for making and furnishing transcripts of his short-hand notes of the
testimony, to be paid by the party requiring such transcript.
SEC. 1476. (1410.) Reports, how used on appeal.-—6. Whenever, in
any cause, such verbatim report shall have been made by an ofﬁcial
reporter, the original long-hand manuscript of the evidence, by him
made, may be ﬁled with the clerk of the court by the party entitled to
the use of the same; and in case of an appeal to the supreme court, or
superior court in general term, it shall be the duty of the clerk, if re
quested to do so by said party, to certify the said original manuscript
of evidence, when the same shall have been incorporated in a bill of
exceptions, to the supreme court or other court of appeal, instead of a
transcript thereof; and the said original manuscript of evidence may
be used in the supreme court or other court of appeal, in the same
manner and for all purposes in and for which a certiﬁed transcript
thereof might heretofore be used; and in such cases the clerk of the
court shall not be entitled to any fees for that part of the transcript of
record containing the evidence.
SEC. 1477. (1411. ) Removal—Vacancies.—7. Such reporter or reporters 1a
may, at any time, be removed by the judge or judges of the courts of Hi
record of his county; and in every case of vacancy in the ofﬁce of re
porterkit shall be the duty of such judge or judges to ﬁll the vacancy
as soon after its occurrence as practicable.
SEC. 1478. (1412.) Money, how drawn from treasury—1. No money
shall be drawn from the treasury of any county, except by authority
of law, and in conformity with the rules hereinafter prescribed. m.
SEC. 1479. (1413.) Warrant for sums ﬁxed by law or public record.—- “,1
2. The auditor may draw his warrant on the treasurer for a sum, the ‘lj,
amount whereof, and the time when, and the person to whom the same m]
may be due are ﬁxed by law, or ascertainable from a public record, 15,,
with proof of personal identity. is;
SEC. 1480. (1414.) Warrant for sums allowed by courts of record.- “If
3. He may also draw his warrant upon the treasurer for asum allowed,
or certiﬁed to be due by any court of record authorized to use a seal
and having jurisdiction beyond that of justices of the peace, or by the
board of county commissioners. '
SEC. 1481. (1415.) Allowance to assistants of sheriﬁ.—-4. The said at
courts may allow sums to persons serving as assistants to the sheriff, "
in preparing the court-house for the reception of such courts, and m 1510‘
the preser ration of order, and in attendance upon juries, and to per
sons performing any services under the order of such court. But the lsrL
number of such assistants employed shall never exceed the actual me 1512,
cessities 0f the case. 

SEC. 1482. (1416.) Allowance for fuel and repairs—5. The said courts a;
may also allow such sums as may be due to persons furnishing fuel at
used in term time, or furniture for the court room, or making repairs 1513
thereof. 

SEC. 1483. (1417.) Allowances in state prosecutions—6. The circuit 
courts may also make allowances for necessary expenditures incurred
under their order, to women, children, or aged or inﬁrm or poor per
sons summoned as witnesses in state prosecutions. 

SEC. 1484. (1418.) Number.-—1. The number of justices of the peace
pin each township shall be regulated by the board of county commis
sioners of the county, by proper orders of record; but the number shall
not exceed three for each township, and one in addition thereto for
each incorporated town therein, and two in additon thereto foreach in
corporated city therein; and authenticated copies of such orders shall
be furnished by the auditor to the clerk of the circuit court.

SEC. 1485. Incorporated towns—A pointment of justices—That, where
a town has been incorporated an there is no justice of the peace resi
dent within the corporate limits of such town, the board of county
commissioners of the county in which such incorporated town is situ
ated, shall, upon the petition of a majority of the board of trustees of
such incorporated town appoint a justice of the peace, who shall re
side, and hold his ofﬁce in such incorporated town. Said board of
county commissioners shall certify to the governor of the state to such
appointment and upon the receipt of such certificate of such appoint
ment the governor shall commission such person so appointed as just—
ice of the peace, said justice shall hold his ofﬁce until his successor is
elected and qualiﬁed.
SEC. 1436. (1419.) Effect of reduction.— 2. The reduction of such
number shall not operate to remove any justice from ofﬁce.
SEC. 1487. (1420.) Effect of change in township—3. When, by any
change in the township of a, county a justice shall be brought within
the limits of a township other than the one in which he was elected,
he shall serve out his term in such township as one of the justices
thereof. 
SEC. 1488. (1421.) Official b0nd.—-8. The official bond of a justice of
the peace shall be in such sum as may be required by the clerk of the
circuit court, not less than two thousand nor more than six thousand
dollars, and conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
ofﬁce, and the payment, to the proper persons,-of all monies that may
come into his hands as such justice.
SEC. 1488. (1421.) Official b0nd.—-8. The official bond of a justice of
the peace shall be in such sum as may be required by the clerk of the
circuit court, not less than two thousand nor more than six thousand
dollars, and conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
ofﬁce, and the payment, to the proper persons,-of all monies that may
come into his hands as such justice.
SEC. 1499. (1423.) Notice of election—5. It shall be the further duty
of such clerk to issue his precept to the sheriff of the county, direct
ing him to give legal notice of such election; and such sheriff shall if“
give twenty days’ notice thereof, by posting up notices in at least “'9
three public places in such township, and delivering a copy thereof at“
to the inspector of elections in such township. 0‘
SEC. 1491. (1424.) Certiﬁcate of election—6. The board of judges, or "a
a majority of them, in any such election, shall make out and sign a a“
statement, setting forth, in words, the number of votes given to each .1,
)erson at such election for such ofﬁce, and seal and transmitthe same, fill“
y one of their own number, to the clerk of the circuit court, on the "1111
Wednesday next after such election. And such clerk shall declare 7?"
the proper number of persons having the highest number of votes duly
elected, and within ten days thereafter, if there be no contest, certify ‘*
such fact under the seal of his court to the secretary of state; on which it
certiﬁcate the governor shall issue commissions to the persons soelected- 

SEC. 1492. (1425.) Election to ﬁll vacancy—1. Whenever any vacancy
shall occur, more than thirty days prior to the ﬁrst Monday in April, l
in the ofﬁce of justice of the peace, in any county in this state, by
death, resignation, or otherwise, it shall be the duty of the clerk of (Elm
the circuit court of such county to order an election to ﬁll such va- 1,,
came . (111,,
SEC. 1493. (1426.) Law governing election—2. All such special elec- “Ami,
tions, the returns thereof, and issuing commissions to the persons “@111
elected, shall be conducted and governed by the laws now in force gOV' I!le
erning special elections; and the person so elected shall hold his oﬁice
four years from the date of his commission.

SEC. 1494. (1427.) Resignation—7. The resignation of any justice of
.1“: the peace shall be delivered to the clerk of the circuit court of the
l'tll
in" \
proper county.
SEC. 1495. (1428.) Vacancy—Docket, etc., where ﬁled—116. When
\‘~ “ever the ofﬁce of any justice becomes vacant, all dockets, papers, and
m" ,0 we which came to his hands by virtue of his ofﬁce shall be delivered
a) his successor; or if no successor has yet been elected. and qualiﬁed,
“Fthen to the nearest justice in the township; or if there be none in the
I ;’ township, then to the nearest justice in the county, to be by him kept
‘ until such successor be elected and qualiﬁed, and then delivered to
such successor.

SEC. 1496. (1429-) Absence—Docket to nearest justice—117. Any jus
tice absentiiig himself from the township for a longer period than thirty
days shall deposit the dockets, books, and papers which came to his
“if” hands by virtue of his ofﬁce with the nearest justice of his township.
SEC. 1497. (1430.) Powers of justice receiving—118. A justice with
iirtlci' whom the docket of another may be deposited during vacancy 01' ab
,nyt" sence, and the successor of any justice having the dockets of his pred
,héjjii— ecessor in his possession, may issue process thereon, give transcripts
mic-i thereof, and do all other acts in relation thereto which he might legally
My"; do in relation to his own dockets. But process so issued shall be re
turned to the justice who may have the legal custody of such dockets
my; at the return day thereof.

SEC. 1498. (1431.) Jurisdiction limited—Exception.—9. The jurisdic
Mﬂ tion of justices in civil cases shall, unless otherWise prOVided by law,
15W: be limited to their townships respectively.

SEC. 1499. (1432.) When no justice in township—126. Whenever
there is no acting justice of the peace in any township, the nearest
justice in an adjoining township shall have jurisdiction of all cases
arising in such township having no justice.
SEC. 1500. (1433.) Amount of jurisdiction—10. Justices of the peace
shall have jurisdiction to try and determine suits founded on contracts
or tort, where the debt or damage claimed or the value of the property
sought to be recovered does not exceed one hundred dollars, and con
current jurisdiction to the amount of two hundred dollars, but the de
fendant may confess judgment for any sum not exceeding three hun
dred dollars. N 0 justice shall have jurisdiction in any action of
slander, for malicious prosecutions, or breach of marriage contract,
nor in any action wherein the title to lands shall come in question, or
the justice be related by blood or marriage to either party.
SEC. 1501. (1434.) Duty when title to land in question—12. If the title to land shall be put in issue by plea supported by afﬁdavit, or
shall manifestly appear from the proof on trial to be in issue, the jus
tice shall, without further proceeding, certify the cause and papers to
the circuit court of the proper county, where the same shall be tried..
SEC. 1502. (1435.) Scire facias abolished—124. Writs of scire facias
before justices are abolished, and all suits which might heretofore
have been prosecuted by them may be prosecuted by complaint and
summons.
SEC. 1503. ( 1436. ) Oaths — Subpoenas — Attachments. —- 17 . Justices
shall have jurisdiction co-extensive with the county, to administer
oaths, issue subpoenas, and attachments for contempt, in any cause
pending before them, or in any matter where they may be authorized
to take testimony.
SEC. 504. (1437.) Docket, how kept.—-18. Every justice shall, ina sub
stantial bound book of not less than two hundred pages, keepa. docket,
in which he shall record the proceedings, in full of all suits instituted
before him; which record shall contain the names of the parties at
full length, a copy of the cause of action, and of the set-off of the de
fendant, if any, and all proceedings had therein and the amount of the
judgment written out in words; and every such record of each cause
shall, when completed, be signed by such justice, and the cause noted
in a proper index to be contained in such docket; and every clerk,
when he shall deliver to any justice his commission, shall direct his
attention to this section.
SEC. 1505. (1438.) Fees fOI' transcript—19. Such justice shall, on be
ing paid at the rate of ten cents per hundred words therefore, furnish
to any person demanding the same a certiﬁed transcript of any such
record of any suit instituted before him or contained in any docket
legally in his possession. 
SEC. 1506. (1439.) Special constable—110. Whenever there shall be
no constable convenient, and in the opinion of the justice an emer
gency exists for the immediate services of one, such justice may ap
point a special constable to act in a particular cause; and shall note
such appointment in such cause on the docket, and shall direct pro
cess to him by his name; and such constable, so appointed, shall dis
charge the duties, receive the fees, and have the powers, in such cause,
appertaining to the ofﬁce.

SEC. 1507. (1440.) Justice’s responsibility—111. The justice appoint
ing such constable shall, with his sureties, be liable on his official
bond for any neglect of duty or illegal proceedings by such constable
in such cause.
SEC. 1508. (1441.) Jurisdiction of person—13. No person 'who is a
resident of any township in the state shall be sued out of said township
except as speciﬁed in the above mentioned act, unless said suit is com
menced by capiae ad rcspondcmlum, or where there shall be no justice
competent to act in said township, and except that on [an] action of
debt for the recovery of any penalty in favor of any plank road, gravel
road or turnpike company, may be prosecuted in any township of the
county where the offense was committed.
SEC. 1509. (1442.) Several defendants—Suits by assignees.—14. When
there is more than one defendant, and they resideiin different town
ships, suit may be commenced in either township, and process served
upon all others wherever found in the county, and they held to answer
in such suit; but any action brought by the assignee of a claim aris
ing out of contract, whether assigned in writing or by delivery, shall
be commenced in the tOWnship where one or more of the parties im
mediately liable to judgment and execution resides, and not elsewhere.

SEC. 1510. Several defendants—Summons to other counties—1. That
in all suits or actions upon written obligations for the payment of
money, or the performance of any other duty or obligation, and that
such written obligation was made or executed by more than one obligor;
or in case there be on such contract any surety, indorser, guarantor,
or other obligor, and that such cause of action is within the jurisdic
tion of a justice of the peace as now ﬁxed by law, suit may be insti
tuted thereon in the township where one of the makers or principal
obligor on such instrument resides, and such justice before whom such
suit is instituted, may issue a summons or other proper notice for any
party or parties to such written obligation to any constable of any
county in this state where such other party or parties reside, and it
shall be the duty of such constable to serve such writ and make his
return thereon as if such writ had been issued to him by a justice of
the peace of his own township, and shall be liable upon his official
bond in the same manner and to the same extent as if such writ had
been directed to him by a justice of his own township, and shall be al
lowed the fees now ﬁxed by law for such services. And his return on
such writ shall have the same force and effect as if such constable was
a resident of the township wherein such suit is brought..

SEC. 1511. (1443.) Trespass, where brought.—15. Suits for trespass to
real and personal property may be brought either in the township
where the defendant resides or where the trespass was committed, and
process served throughout the county.

SEC. 1512. (1444.) Official bonds—16. Official bonds of ofﬁcers may be
sued on before justices, where the damages claimed for breach of the
condition thereof do not exceed two hundred dollars.
SEC. 1513. (1445.) Jurisdictionin attachment.—122. Justices may issue
writs of attachment against the personal property of a debtor, under
the rules prescribed for the prosecution of such writs, when the amount
claimed by any one creditor does not exceed two hundred dollars; and
their jurisdiction in such case shall be co-extensive with the county.

SEC. 1514. (1446.) Jurisdiction in ne exeat.—123. Justices shall have
power to issue writs of ne exeat, under the rules prescribed for the
issue of such writs, when the amount claimed does not exceed two
hundred dollars.
SEC. 1515. (1447.) Semi-annual report—1. Each justice of the peace
shall, on the ﬁrst-Monday in January, and on the first Monday in
July of each year, make a report to, and pay over to, the county
treasurer of his respective county, all ﬁnes collected by him since his
last previous report, verifying such report by oath: Provided, That
at the time of making such rep0rt the amount of the ﬁnes collected
shall exceed three times the amount that he would be entitled to draw
from the county as mileage in making such report.
SEC. 1516. (1448.) When- to report—Final payment—2. Where the
amount of ﬁnes collected by any justice of the peace does not exceed
three times the amount that he would be entitled to as mileage in
making such report, he shall report by writing to the treasurer of the
county the exact amount of ﬁnes collected by him, and retain the
same until the next semi-annual settlement: Provided, That at the
expiration of his term of office he shall make full report, and pay over
to the treasurer all ﬁnes collected by him and not heretofore paid.
SEC. 1517. (1449.) Security for costs.--55. Justices shall require se
curity for costs from plaintifffs living out of the county.

SEC. 1518. (1450.) Suits, 110W instituted—20. Suits may be instituted
before justices by agreement or process; and the delivery of the process
to the officer authorized to serve the same, if by process, and the entry
of the fact upon the docket, if by agreement, shall be deemed such
commencement; and it shall be the duty of such ofﬁcer to note on
such process the date when it came to his hands.
SEC. 1519. (1451. ) Summons.—21. Except in cases otherwise provided,
such process shall be a summons, specifying a time not less than three
nor more than thirty days from the date, and a place at which the de
fendant shall appear; and in actions founded on contract the justice
shall indorse thereon the precise sum demanded and the costs accrued.
SEC. 1520. (1452.) Manner of service—22. Such summons shall be
served at least three days before trial, by reading the same to the de
fendant, or leaving a copy thereof at his last usual place of residence;
and if not so served, such cause shall be continued for a reasonable
time.
SEC. 1521. (1453.) When must not serve by copy—23. If an absent
defendant have left his usual place of residence for an uncertain
period, or a period certain, but extending beyond the return~day
thereof, the constable, being apprised thereof, shall not serve the same
b 1 co 1.
SEC. 31522. (1454.) Process 011 Sunday—112. Process may be issued
on Sunday, whenever it shall appear by afﬁdavit that the object of
such process would probably be defeated by delaying to another day.
SEC. 1523. (1455-) Return of “not found.”—-63. When a summons is
returned “ not founr ” as to part of the defendants, the plaintifff, at
his option, may continue for alias process, or suggest the return 011
the record, dismiss the cause as to the defendants not found, and pro
ceed against those served; and such plaintifff may, at any time after
ward, proceed against those not found.

SEC. 1524. (1456.) Practice—75. In all cases not in this act specially
otherwise provided, proceedings before justices shall be governed by
the practice and usages of circuit courts and the rules of the common
law so far as the same are in force in this state.
SEC. 1525. (1457.) Appearance—Justices, etc., not to act as attorneys.
—31. Infants shall appear by next friend, to be appointed by the jus
tice; all other persons may appear in person, or by agent or attorney;
but no constable or justice shall act as such agent or attorney.
SEC. 1526. (1458.) Form of action—Complaint—Parties.-32. All
forms of action heretofore known by distinct names are abolished;
and but one form of action, to be called a “ complaint,” shall be used;
and the parties to such action shall be called the plaintifff and defend
ant respectively.
SEC. 1527. (1459.) Joinder of causes—33. All causes of action founded
on contract may be joined in one complaint; and all causes founded
on tort be joined in like manner; but causes founded on contract shall
not be joined with causes founded on tort.
SEC. 1528. (1460.) Answer.—34. All matter of defense, except the
statute of limitations, set-off, and matter in abatement, may be given
in evidence without plea. Matter in abatement must he pleaded un
der oath: Provided, That the execution of a written instrument, or
any assignment thereof sued on, shall not be denied, except by special
plea veriﬁed by afﬁdavit.

SEC. 1529. (1461.) Complaint—35. In all suits commenced by sum- 6:
mons, the plaintifff shall, three days before the return day of the writ, my
ﬁle with the justice a statement of the grounds of his complaint, or the “1,
Written instrument which is the foundation of his suit; and in actions I
against ofﬁcers on their ofﬁcial bonds, a certiﬁed copy thereof, and an em
informal statement of the breach complained of and the damages _
claimed shall be sufﬁcient, or failing to ﬁle such statement within such to
time, his complaint shall, on motion of the defendant, be continued .
at the cost of the plaintifff; or if none be ﬁled before the hour of trial, In
the cause shall be dismissed. 
SEC. 1530. (1462.) Set-oﬁ’.—36. Matters of set-off claimed by the de- Ma]
fendant shall be ﬁled ill writing before entering upon the trial, and slim,
shall be set forth with the same certainty required in the complainto _ 7p,
the plaintifff. 

SEC. 531. (1463-) Replication unnecessary—37. No replication shall
in any case be necessary; but any matter which might have been re
plied to any plea may be proved with the same effect as if so replied.
SEC. 1532. (1464.) Amendments—38. Either party may be permitted
to amend his pleading before or during trial; but such amendment, if
it requires any new proof of the other party, or authorizes the party
making it to introduce any proof he could not otherwise introduce,
shall be cause of continuance at the cost of the party making such
mg; amendment, unless such amendment be made at least three days he
“ fore the day set for trial; but no amendment of pleadings as provided .
with for in this section shall be cause of continuance, unless the party
We against whom such amendment is made shall ﬁle his aﬂ‘idavit showing
was that additional proof will be required from him by reason of the
amendment, and that he can not produce the same at the time origi
upg-ii: nally set for trial.

SEC. 1533. (1465.) Plaintiff to include all accounts—40. The plaintifff
in complaints founded on open accounts shall embrace all claims then
due on account; or, failing so to do, shall pay the costs of any subse
quent suit on claims not so embraced.
SEC. 1534. (1466.) Complaint on transcript.— 125. Action by com
plaint and summons may be maintained upon the transcript of a judg
ment from any other justice’s docket, in the name of the judgment
plaintifff or his assignee; and such transcript and assignment shall be
a sufﬁcient complaint, without other statement.
SEC. 1535. (1467.) Change of Venue, When—27. Changes of venue
kg shall be granted at any time before the trial is commenced, whenever
afﬁdavit shall be made before the justice by either party, stating—
First. That such justice is a material witness in the cause for either
(I; party; or,
\
Second, That such afﬁant believes he can not have a fair and im'
partial trial before such justice on account of his bias and prejudice,
new? or interest in said cause; or, _ . _ _
“has; _ ThtTd. That he can not have an impartial trial_1n the township ow
ij mg to the interest, bias and prejudice of the eltizens thereof: Pro
vided, That but one change of venue shall be granted to the same
party from the justice, and one change of venue from the township.

SEC. 1536. (1468.) Change granted—~28. If a change be granted on
the ground named in the ﬁrst or second speciﬁcation of the last preceding section,_such cause shall be sent to some other justice of the
same township if there be one competent to try the same. If there be
no competent justice Within the township, or the change be granted
on the grounds named in the third speciﬁcation of the last preceding section, then such cause shall be sent to some justice of an adjoining
township.

SEC. 1537, (1469.) Cost of change—29. No change of venue shall be
granted, except on payment, or confession of judgment therefore and
replevy thereof, of all costs occasioned by the change, if taken bye
defendant, and of all accrued costs and the cost of such change, if
taken by the plaintifff.

SEC. 1533, (1470.) Papers transmitted—30. The justice granting the
change shall transmit a certiﬁed transcript of his proceedings and all
papersin the cause to the justice to whom he may send such case; who
shall proceed therein as i f such suit had been originally instituted _b9fore him, as well as to changes of venue as other incidents of the trial

SEC. 1539- (1471:) .00“th - . l ' h ﬁid 'ti :1 ybe amended and
ﬂidavit when justice requires it, Wiic a raw n y
3 0m to for a period not longer than sixty days, atthe cost of the
re-SW " l lication' unless in cases where either party has
arty making suc i app I _ t_ u
b med the other and he fails to attend, and the cause is 0011 In an
su iiqe testimony in which case the P111‘ ty so failing to attend Sh is
fir 51:01] costs, ufiless he be unable to attend, and then such 00$
)7 . . m
£11811 abide the result of the suit. 

SEC. 1540. (1472.) For Witness—Subprenm—l. Whenever either party
in a suit pending before a justice of the peace shall make an afﬁdavit
that the testimony of a witness residing in a county adjoining to that
in which such suit is pending will be material and necessary to him
in the trial of the cause, showing in his afﬁdavit what fact he expects
to prove by such witness, it shall be the duty of such justice to con
tinue the cause, at the cost of the party making such application, for
a period of time not exceeding ten days, and forthwith to issue to the
party making the application a subptena for such witness or witnesses,
directed to any constable of the county in which such witness or wit
nesses are alleged to be resident.
SEC. 1541. (1473.) Subpoena, when returnable—2. Such affidavit may
be made at any time at or after the commencement of the suit; and if
made and ﬁled on a day prior to“ that set for the trial, the subpoena
issued therefore shall be made returnable on the day set for the trial of
the cause.
SEC. 1542. (1474.) Constable’s duty—Tender of fees—3. It shall be
the duty of any constable of such adjoining county to whom such sub
poena shall be delivered forthwith to execute the same, and return it
on the return day thereof; and the witness or witnesses upon whom
it shall be served shall be bound to obey the same in like manner and
under like penalties as if it had been issued by a justice of the peace
of the county where such witness or witnesses reside; and said wit
nesses may be attached as in other cases: Provided, A witness shall
not be obliged to attend before a justice of the peace out of the county
where he resides, unless his legal fees for traveling to and from the
ofﬁce of such justice of the peace, and one day’s attendance are paid
or tendered before or at the time of the service of the subpoena: And
provided, further, That at the commencement of each day after the
ﬁrst day, a witness attending a trial out of the county in which he re
sides shall be entitled to demand and receive the legal fees for that
day in advance; and if not thus paid, he shall not be compelled to at
tend or remain as a witness.

SEC. 1543. (1475.) Rules of evidence—53. The rules of evidence shall
be the same as in the circuit court, except as in this act otherwise
provided. _
SEC. 1544. (1476.) Proof.-39. The proof of the plaintifff shall be con
ﬁned to the allegations of his complaint, and such proof as may be
necessary to rebut the proof of the defendant. The proof of the de
fendant shall be conﬁned to such matters of defense as he is by this .
act authorized to prove without plea, and to proof of such special pleas
as he may ﬁle.
SEC. 1545. (1477.) Witnesses—46. Justices shall have power to sub
poena witnesses, and enforce their attendance by attachment, and ﬁne
not exceeding ﬁve dollars; to enforce order when judicial proceedings
are in progress before them by ﬁne not exceeding ﬁve dollars and im
prisonment not exceeding three hours.
SEC. 1546. (1478.) Cost Of witnesses—~47. Any party causing witnesses
to be subpoenaed, and not swearing and examining them if in attend
ance, shall pay the cost occasioned thereby, unless the use of such
witness orwitnesses be dispensed with by the admission of the opposite
party. No claim of attendance shall be allowed a witness, unless
made before the judgment is entered and signed.
SEC. 547. (1479.) Fees 0f witnesses—27. Witness fees before a justice
of the peace shall be as follows: Attending, per day, one dollar, and
mileage for each mile necessarily traveled in going to and returning
from court from his residence, ﬁve cents: Provided, That the party
subpoenaing more than three witnesses to testify, in a civil case, to the
same fact, shall pay the cost of all over three.

SEC. 1548. (1480.) Party as witness—48. Either party may, in all
cases, have the other sworn as a witness; and if the plaintifff refuse to
appear on being personally subpoenaed, or, being present, refuse to
swear, the cause shall be dismissed; if the defendant refuse to appear
on being personally subpoenaed, or, being present, refuse to swear,
the plaintifff’s demand shall be taken as confessed, no set-off allowed,
and judgment entered accordingly; but such testimony shall not be
used as evidence in any other case, civil or criminal, against such
party testifying.

SEC. 1549. (1481.) Depositions.-—49. Depositions of witnesses or parties
residing out of the county, or sick, or about to leave the same, maybe
taken under the rules prescribed by law for taking depositions; and if
such party or witness be absent from the county or unable to attend
at the trial, may be read as evidence in any cause; and no dedimus
shall be necessary in such case.

SEC. 1550. (1482.) How sent and opened.—50. Such depositions shall
be sent, under seal, to the justice trying the cause; and may be opened
at any time, the parties consenting thereto, or on the day set for trial,
on motion of either party.
SEC. 1551. (1483.) lssues—Jnrors.——51. The issues of fact shall be
tried by the justice, unless either party demand a jury, which shall
consist of six qualiﬁed voters of the township, to be summoned by a
constable by venire issued by the justice: Provided, however, That the
number may be less than six by consent of the parties.

SEC. 1552. (1484.) Challenges—Oath 0i jurors—52. Either party may
challenge for cause, or may peremptorin challenge half the jury; and
such jury shall be sworn by the justice truly to try the matter in differ
ence between the parties, and a true verdict to give according to law
and evidence.

SEC. 1553. (1485.) Disagreement—Continuance—54. Wheneverajury,
after having consulted together for a reasonable time, shall report to
the justice that they can not agree, he shall discharge them, and con
tinue the cause until another day.
SEC. 1554. (1486.) Pay 0i jurors—~34. Fees oi jurors shall be, for each
day’s attendance before a justice of the peace, one dollar; for each mile
necessarily traveled, ﬁve cents.
SEC. 1555. (1487.) New trial—Notice, eta—56. New trials may be
granted by justices at any time within four days after entering judg
ment, according to the usages of the circuit court (notice of the mo
tion therefore having been given to the opposite party) unless such
motion is made in his presence, or the presence of the agent or attor
ney who conducted his suit.

SEC. 1556. (1488.) When granted—Day ﬁxed—N0tice.—57. When such
new trial is granted, the justice shall set a day for the same, and
cause at least three days’ notice thereof to be given to the party against
whom the motion was granted.
SEC. 1557. (1489.) J udgment—Entry—Signing.—58. When a suit
shall be dismissed, judgment confessed, the verdict of a jury returned,
or the defendant be in actual custody, judgment shall he entered and
signed immediately; in all other cases, judgment shall be entered and
signed within four days after the trial.
SEC. 1558. (1490.) By confession—59. Judgments may be rendered by
confession, and no appeal shall lie therefrom, but the same may be
collaterally impeached for fraud by creditors of the judgment debtor;
and such judgment shall be void as to such creditors unless at the
time of the rendition thereof the defendant maxes afﬁdavit that he
justly owes the debt.

SEC. 1559. (1491.) Balance in favor of -defendant-—-Judgment.—60. If
there shall appear a balance in favor of the defendant, judgment for
the amount, not exceeding the jurisdiction of the justice, shall be en
tered in his favor.
SEC. 1560. (1492.) By default—61. If the defendant, being legally
notiﬁed, fail to appear, judgment may be entered against him by de
fault, upon proof heard, for the amount of the plaintifff’s demand.
SEC. 1561. (1493.) Default, how set aside—62. Such judgment by de
fault may be set aside on motion, at any time within ten days there
after on payment of all costs, the defendant ﬁrst ﬁling his afﬁdavit
showing a good defense to the action; and when so set aside, the jus—
tice shall set a day for trial, and cause at least three days’ notice thereof
to be given to plaintifff; and if judgment by default shall a second
time be entered, it shall not a second time be set aside.

SEC. 1562. (1494.) Without relief—86. Where the note or obligation
sued on is payable without relief from valuation or appraisement laws,
sluch agreement shall be made a part of the judgment, and shall be
noted on the execution, and property sold, without appraisement, to
satisfy the same.
SEC. 1563. (1495.) Purchase of judgment by justice or constable un
lawful.—113. No justice or constable of the same township shall, di
rectly or indirectly, purchase any judgment or interest therein on the
docket of such justice, or upon any docket in his possession; and any
such purchase shall operate as a satisfaction of such judgment, to the
extent of the interest therein purchased.

SEC. 1564. (1496.) Judgment collected—To pay oven—114. Justices
shall receive all money collected on process by them issued, and all
money tendered them on any judgment on their docket, or any docket
in their possession, and shall pay over the same, on proper demand,
to the person authorized to receive the same; and for failure so to pay
the same, he shall be liable on his ofﬁcial bond for such money, with
interest thereon from the time of such demand, and twenty per cent.
in damages in addition.

SEC. 1565. (1497.) Satisfaction of judgment—115. Any person alleg
ing satisfaction, in whole or in part, of any judgment on a justice’s
docket, may ﬁle his complaint in writing, showing speciﬁcally in
what manner such satisfaction was made; and summons for the other
party shall be issued and served, and the complaint heard and deter
mined, and satisfaction entered or refused, as in other cases; and pend
ing such suit, execution on such judgment shall be re—called, on the
plaintifff in such complaint giving bond and surety in double the
amount of such judgment, payable to the defendant in such complaint,
and conditioned for the payment of the judgment, if his complaint be
determined against him.
SEC. 1566. (1498.) Revival 0i judgment—120. Judgment in favor of
any deceased person may be revived in favor of his personal representa
tives, on complaint and summons as in other cases.
SEC. 1567. (1499.) Appeal—HOW taken—64. Any party may appeal
from the judgment of any justice to the circuit court of the county,
within thirty days from the rendition thereof; and when there are two
or more plaintifffs or defendants, one or more of such plaintifffs or de
fendants may appeal without joining the others in such appeal.

SEC. 1568. ( 1500.) Appeal bond—65. The appellant shall, except in
cases where the same is dispensed with by law, ﬁle with the justice a.
bond with security to-be approved by the justice, payable to the ap
pellee, in a sum sufﬁcient to secure the claim of the appellee and in
terest and costs, conditioned that he will prosecute his appeal to eﬁect,
and pay the judgment that may be rendered against him in the circuit
court. 

SEC. 1569. (1501.) Filing transcript—66. On the ﬁling of such bond,
the justice shall make out and certify a complete transcript of all the
proceedings had before him; and transmit the same, together with such
bond and all other papers in the cause, to the clerk of the circuit court
to which the appeal is taken, within twenty days thereafter; or, failing
so to do, shall forfeit all his cost in the case. But no such appeal
shall be dismissed for such failure of the justice, nor for the insutli
ciency of'the bond,'if the appellant will ﬁle a sufﬁcient bond, to the
acceptance of the circuit court.

SEC. 1570. (1502;) Trial and practice—67. Such cause shall stand for
trial in the circuit court, whenever such transcript has been ﬁled ten
days before the ﬁrst day of the term thereof, and be there tried under
the same rules and regulations, prescribed for trials before justices;
and amendments of the pleadings may be made on such terms, as to
costs and continuances, as the court may order.
SEC. 1571. (1503.) Appeal after thirty days—68. Appeals may be
authorized by the circuit court after the expiration of thirty days,
when the party seeking the appeal has been prevented from taking the
same by circumstances not under his control. 
SEC. 1572. (1504.) Appeal dismissed—69. When an appeal is dis
missed by the court, such fact shall be certiﬁed to the justice by the
clerk, and such judgment stand on the justice’s docket as if no appeal
had been taken. 
SEC. 1573. (1505.) Costs—70. Costs shall follow judgment in the cir
cuit court, on appeals, with the following exceptions:
irst. If either party against whom judgment has been re
appeal, and reduce the judgment against him ﬁve dollars or I11(
shall recover his costs in the circuit court; when the appell:
peared before the justice.
Second. If either party in whose favor judgment has been re
appeal, and do not recover at least five dollars more than he re(
before the justice, the appellee shall recover his costs in the
court.
SEC. 1574. (1506.) Execution—1ssue.—-76. Justices shall,unles:
wise directed, issue executions on all judgments when the pa
peared, after four days 'from the rendition thereof; and in c
judgment by default, after the expiration of ten days from the
tion thereof: Provided, That in cases of judgment by confessi<
in cases commenced by caprias, and in cases when it shall be 11
appear by afﬁdavit that delay will endanger the collection of th
ment, execution shall be issued immediately after entering jud

SEC. 1575. (1507.) How directed—Form—Where served—77. The ex
' ecution shall be directed to any constable of the county, and shall be
substantially in the form hereinafter prescribed, and may be served
throughout the county.
SEC. 1576. (1508.) Indorsement by constable—Lien.—78. Such con
stable shall indorse on such execution the day and hour when it came
to his hands; and from that time it shall operate as a lien on the prop
erty of the judgment debtor, liable to be seized on it; which lien shall
be divested in favor of any other writ, in the hands of another ofﬁcer,
which shall be ﬁrst levied on such property.
SEC. 1577. (1509.) When returnable—79. Such execution shall be
made returnable at the expiration of six months; but may be sooner re
turned, if satisﬁed or no property of the defendant can be found.
SEC. 1578. (1510.) Alias execution—80. Whenever an execution is re
turned by an ofﬁcer having the same,that he has levied the same, and
has the property unsold in his hands, or has a delivery bond for the
same, the justice shall issue another execution; and shall append
thereto a copy of such return, and such property may be sold on such
alias execution in the same manner as on the ﬁrst execution; and if
such property be insufficient, other property may be levied on to sat
isfy such writ, either before or after such sale.

SEC. 1579. (1511.) Sales—81. The sale of property under such execu
tion, as to appraisement and the number of offers to sell, shall be gov
erned by the laws regulating sales of personal property under execu
tion, issued from the circuit court.
SEC. 1580. (1512.) Suretyship.—82. Whenever it shall appear from the
docket, the justice shall note on the execution, whether any of the de
fendants are sureties; and if so noted, it shall be the duty of the officer
executing the same, ﬁrst to levy on the goods of the principal; and if
enough of such goods can be found to satisfy the execution, no levy
shall be made on the goods of the surety.
SEC. 1581. (1513.) After three years, affidavit required—119. When
ever any judgment has remained without the issue of execution there
on for the space of three whole years, no execution shall issue thereon,
unless on affidavit ﬁled, showing that such judgment is unsatisﬁed,
and how much is yet due thereon. .
SEC. 1582. (1514.) Delivery bond—Constable responsible.—- 88- The
execution defendant shall be entitled to the custody of goods levied
upon by virtue of any execution issued by a justice, by executingade
livery bond, with surety, payable to the execution plaintifff, under the
rules and regulations prescribed for the execution of delivery bonds to
sheriffs in similar cases; and the constable taking the same shall be
responsible for the sufﬁciency of the bond and the solvency of the
sureties at the time of the execution thereof.

SEC. 1583. (1515-) Bond forfeited—89. If the condition of such bond
be broken, the execution plaintifff may prosecute his remedy thereon,
or may, by alias execution, cause the same or other property to be
levied on, or, having failed in either remedy, may afterward resort to
the other. ‘
SEC. 1584. (1516.) No appeal from judgment on bond—90. No appeal
shall be allowed the defendant from a judgment before a justice on a
delivery bond, unless he show, by afﬁdavit, that he has merits in such
appeal.

SEC. 1585. (1517.) Bond forfeited—Defendant not entitled to property.
—91. When the condition of a delivery bond has been broken, and
the same, or other property, afterward levied on by the same execu
tion, or another execution on the same judgment, the defendant shall
not be entitled to the custody of such property.
SEC. 1586. (1518.) Judgment on bond—92. In suits on a delivery
bond, the amount due on the execution, if the property was worth so
much (if not, the value of the property), and, in both cases, ten per
cent. in addition, shall be the measure of damages.

SEC. 1587. (1519.) Sale of property.—93. If an execution debtor, hav
ing executed a delivery bond for any goods, shall sell the same or part
thereof for not less than two-thirds the appraised value, and shall
apply all the proceeds of such sale to payment of the judgment, if so
much be necessary, the failure to deliver such property so sold shall
not be a breach of the condition of such bond.
SEC. 1588. (1520.) Stay—Eﬁect.—84. In all cases where a stay of exe
cution is not prohibited by law, the judgment defendant shall have
stay of execution, by entering replevin bail on the docket of the justice,
7in substantially the following form:
I, A. B., hereby acknowledge myself replevin bail, for the stay of execution on the
above judgment, for —— days from the rendition thereof.
Witness my hand, this -—- day of , 18—. A. B.
Test: E. P., Justice.
And the justice shall be responsible for the solvency of such bail at
the time when taken, unless the plaintifff consent thereto; and such
undertaking shall have the effect of a judgment confessed; and execu
tion shall issue thereon, at the expiration of such stay, jointly against
the defendant and such bail; and it shall'be the duty of the justice to
issue execution thereon at the expiration of the stay, unless otherwise
ordered by the plaintifff.

SEC. 1589. (1521.) When not allowed—85. No stay of exec
appraisement of property shall be allowed in the following ca
First. On judgments against ofﬁcers, executors, admin:
guardians, or commissioners appointed to sell land, for the
of any duty connected with their office or trust.
Second. On any ofﬁcial bond, or bond given to secure the
discharge of the duties of any trust, as to the principal in su
Third. On any judgment for money received in trust and
over on proper demand.
Fourth. Against any corporation, other than municipal.
Fifth. On any judgment on a forfeited delivery bond.

SEC. 1590. (1522.) Limit of time—87. If such judgment, exc
costs, do not exceed six dollars, such stay shall be for thirty
over six and under twelve dollars, sixty days; if over twelve a
twenty dollars, ninety days; if over twenty and under fortj
one hundred and twenty days; if over forty and under sev
dollars, one hundred and ﬁfty days; if over seventy-ﬁve do]
one hundred and eighty days
SEC. 1591. (1523.) Additional bail.——1. Whenever any person
obtained judgment before any justice of the peace shall beco;
fled oi the insufﬁciency of any replevin bail upon said judg
may, upon ﬁling his affidavit with such justice of the peact
has reason to believe that such replevin bail is insufﬁcient
the payment of said judgment, cause said justice of the peac
a summons returnable in not less than three nor more than
from the date thereof, requiring the judgment debtor to a;
show cause why he should not be required to furnish other
tional replevin bail; and if, upon the failure of the judgme
to appear, or upon his appearance, the judgment plaintifff show to the
satisfaction of the court that the replevin bail already given is insufﬁ
cient, and the defendant fail to furnish other or additional replevin
bail, it shall be the duty of such justice of the peace to forthwith issue
execution against the property of the judgment debtor, the same as if
no stay had been taken upon said judgment.

SEC. 1592. (1524.) How bail may compel execution—94. Any replev
in bail desirous of being discharged from his liability may make
afﬁdavit that he is apprehensive of being made liable thereon, if exe
cution be further delayed; and, on the ﬁling of such affidavit, the
justice shall cause the defendant to be notiﬁed in writing, that unless
he give other replevin bail, execution will issue thereon; and if such
defendant shall not, within three days'after service of such notice,
give other bail, execution shall issue in the same manner as if the
stay had expired.
SEC. 1593. (1525.) New bail.——-95. Such new bail shall be entered on
the docket in form substantially as follows:
I, A. B., acknowledge myself replevin bail, for the stay of execution on the above
judgment, until the -——— day of , 18—, instead of C. D., discharged.
Witness my hand, this — day of , 1.8—.
(Signed) A. B.
Test: E. F., Justice.
And shall operate as a discharge of the former bail.
SEC. 1594. (1526.) When judgment for use of bail.-—96. When a re
plevin bail has paid the judgment, or any part thereof, the same shall
stand unsatisﬁed for his use, and he may have execution thereon.
SEC. 1595. (1527.) Sale—Effect of death before—121. When an exe
cution defendant shall die after levy and before sale, the property
levied on shall be sold in the same manner as if he was alive; but if
no levy has been made in such case, such execution shall be returned
without further proceeedings and its lien on the goods of the defend
ant divested; and if the plaintifff die after execution has issued, the
same shall be executed and returned as if such plaintifff were living.
SEC. 1596. (1528.) On execution-83. All sales on execution shall be
at public auction in the township where the goods were seized, be
tween the hours of ten in the forenoon and ﬁve in the afternoon; and
ten days’ notice of the time and place of such sale shall be given by
the constable, by posting up written notices in three public places in
uch township; and such constable shall not, directly or ii
become a purchaser at such sale.

SEC. 1597. (1529.) Claim to property—Veriﬁed complaint—1
ever any personal property shall have been seized by virtu
writ of‘ execution or attachment, and any person other that
fendant in such writ shall ﬁle with the justice who issued 2
(or, if the same be levied upon by more than one writ, with
tice who issued the oldest writ so levied), his complaint in
veriﬁed by afﬁdavit, setting forth the fact of such levy or sei:
stating his claim to said property and the nature of suc
whether absolute or conditional, such justice shall docket s1
plaint for trial; and the same shall be tried and determined,
tinuances granted, and changes of venue awarded, and all 0
ceedings had thereon as in other civil complaints before justi

SEC. 1593, (1530.) Summons—Rule as to non-residentSr—Z.
mons shall be issued and served as in other cases; and the
ofﬁcers, if there be more than one, holding such writs of ext
attachment, together with the plaintifffs in such writs, shall
as defendants in such summons; but if such summons be
that such plaintifffs in such writs of execution or attachlnei
of them, are not residents of the county, and the ofﬁcer <
named in such summons be served, such cause may be hear
service on such non-resident parties.
SEC. 1599. (1531) Continuance—3. Unless such summons
at least three days before the day set for trial, the defendant 1
a continuance at the cost of the plaintifff.
SEC. 1600. (1532.) Suspension of proceedings on writ—4
time any such ofﬁcer shall be notiﬁed, by service of such 2
of the pendency of such claim, he shall suspend all proceedings on
the writs in his hands, so far as such property claimed is concerned,
until such claim is determined.
SEC. 1601. (1533.) Cause of action—Pleas—Evidence.—-5. No cause of
action, other than the veriﬁed claim required by the ﬁrst section of this
act [§ 1529], need be ﬁled by the plaintifff, and no plea shall be re
quired of the defendant, but all matters pertinent to the issue may be
given in evidence by either party.
SEC. 1602. (1534.) Jury—6. If either party demand a jury, the same
shall be summoned, empaneled, and sworn as in other cases; if none
be demanded, the justice shall try the cause.
SEC. 1603. (1555. )' Amendments—7. Amendments veriﬁed by afﬁdavit
maybe made by the plaintifff in his complaint, either before the justice,
-or in the circuit court on appeal, on the same terms as to costs and
continuances as plaintifffs, in other complaints commenced before jus
tices, are permitted to amend.
SEC. 1604. (1536.) Verdict—8. Such jury, in their verdict, shall assess
the value of the property; but failure so to do shall not vitiate their
verdict. But if testimony as to such value has been given, and they
omit such assessment, they shall receive no fees.
SEC. 1605. (1537.) Appeal and bond—9. An appeal shall lie to the
circuit court, if taken within ten days from the day of trial, and not
after, under the same rules and regulations as to the taking thereof,
and the trial in the circuit court, as in other cases—the penalty of the
bond being in double the value of the disputed property and accrued
costs.
SEC. 1606. (1538.) Disposition of property.—10. Until the time for
such appeal has expired, the cause, so far as the disposition of such
property is concerned, shall be considered as determined.
SEC. 1607. ( 1539.) Damages on appeal.-—11. If the circuit court deter
mine against the claimant, they shall assess ﬁve per cent. in damages
in the value of such property, and render judgment therefore in favor
of the execution or attachment plaintifffs.
SEC. 1608. (1540.) Effect of judgment—12. Any judgment determin
ing the right of property in any proceeding under this act shall be
conclusive as to such right against all persons served with process or
appearing in such cause.
SEC. 1609. (1541.) Possession—~13. The claimant of property in any
proceeding under this act shall, at any time pending such proceeding,
be entitled to possession thereof, by executing bond and surety to the
satisfaction of the justice or clerk of the court where the same is pend'
ing, in double the value of the property; which value shall be proved
by the afﬁdavit of a disinterested person. Such bond shall be pay
able to the defendants in such complaint, and conditioned for the
return of so much of the property seized as may be adjudged subject
to the execution or attachment to the ofﬁcer or ofﬁcers who have
seized the same, if the plaintifff shall fail to obtain judgment.
SEC. 1610. (1542.) Form of judgment—Title of purchaser.—]4. It the
interest of the claimant in the property claimed shall be found to be
a lien, by mortgage or pledge, to secure any debt or liability due or to
become due to him, the amount of such lien shall be ascertained by
the ﬁnding and judgment in such cause, and such property shall be
adjudged liable to be sold subject to such lien, and the purchaser of
such property, under such sale s0 adjudged, shall take the same subject
thereto and to all the rights of the claimant by virtue of such
lien as to his possession and other incidents. And such finding and
judgment shall be conclusive as to the amount of such lien against '
the purchaser of said property and the parties to such complaint.
SEC. 1611. (1543.) Suit 0n bond—15. In any action on any bond
given under this act, the measure of damages shall be the value of the
property adjudged subject to execution, if it do not exceed the aggregate
of all the judgments or claims in attachment it was seized to
satisfy, or the amount of such judgments and claims, if the value of
the property exceed such aggregate, and all costs on such writs and
in such complaint; to which, in either case, shall be added ten per
cent. in damages on the amount.
SEC. 1612. (1544.) Separate or joint suits on bond—16. When two or
more persons to whom any bond given under this act is made payable
have separate interests therein, they may maintain separate actions
thereon, or may join in one action.
SEC. 1613. (1545.) Notice t0 assert claim—17. When any oﬂicer has
seized any personal property by virtue of any execution or writ of attachment,
and doubts whether some person, other than the execution
or attachment defendant, is not the owner of or has some claim to such
property, he may give notice, in writing, to all such persons that he
has seized such property, describing the same, and stating by virtue
of what process he_ has so seized it, and requiring such persons, if
they have any claim or right thereto, to assert the same, by law, with-a
in twenty days. '
SEC. 1614. (1546.) Effect of notice—l8. Any person notiﬁed as in the
last preceding section, who shall not, within twenty days after receipt
of such notice, if he be within the state, or forty days if he be without
the state, when he receives the same, institute proceedings under this
act, to try the right of such property, and prosecute the same to ﬁnal
judgment, with reasonable diligence, shall forever bar any action
against such ofﬁcer or the purchaser of such property on account 0!
the same: Provided, however, That if, previous to the receipt of such
notice, such claimant may have instituted any other suit to assert hi8
right to such property, he may prosecute the same to ﬁnal judgment.
[1859, p. 119. In force August 6, 1859.]
SEC. 1615. (1547.) Replevin—Complaint, etc.——71. Wheneveranyplaintiff shall, by complaint in writing, veriﬁed by afﬁdavit, set forth that
his personal goods, not exceeding in value one hundred dollars, have
been wrongfully taken, or are unlawfully detained by any other per
son, speciﬁcally describing such property and giving the value there
of, and alleging that the same has not been taken by Virtue of any
execution or other writ against him (or if so taken that the same is
exempt from execution by virtue of the laws of this state), and claim
ing damages for the detention or taking the same, not exceeding one
hundred dollars in addition, and shall ﬁle with such justice a bond,
with surety to be approved by such justice, and payable to the defend
ant in a sum double the value of such goods, conditioned that he will
prosecute such complaint to effect and return such goods to such de
fendant if judgment of return be awarded to him, and pay all damages
awarded such detendant, the justice shall issue to some constable of
the county his writ, commanding him to take the property described,
and deliver it forthwith to such plaintifff, and that he summon said
defendant to appear at a time and place therein named, before such
justice, to answer such complaint. 

SEC. 1616. (1548.) Writ, how served—72. Such constable sh
such writ anywhere in the county, by obeying the command
and the defendant may be summoned by copy thereof left at
usual place of residence.
SEC. 1617. (1549.) Proceedings on return of “not f0und.”—71
property claimed, or any part thereof, can not be found by the c
the suit shall proceed as if it had been so found; and if such]
not so found, is adjudged to be the property of the plaintifff, a
to have been recovered in that action if it had been found, he
cover the value thereof in damages, whether he shall haw
that amount as damages in his complaint or not.

SEC. 1618. (1550.) Trial—Judgment.—73. Such cause shall
as other causes before justices. If the cause be dismissed c
fendant prevail, judgment shall be rendered in his favor for '
and that he have return of the property; if the plaintifff p1
shall have judgment for damages for the taking or detentil
same, and costs.

SEC. 1619. (1551.) Capias ad respondendum.—24. Whenevei
appear from the afﬁdavit of the plaintifff, or some other per
such plaintifff has a legal demand, then due, against any person then
in or about to come in any county, and that such defendant, as the
aﬁiant believes, is about to leave the state or the county, taking with
him property subject to execution or other means with which such
demand might be paid in whole or in part, with intent to delay or de
fraud his creditors, any justice shall issue a capias ad respondendum
against such defendant; which shall be returnable forthwith, and may
be served anywhere in the county where issued.

SEC. 1620. (1552.) Arrest—Notice t0 plaintifff—25. The ofﬁcer serving
such writ shall forthwith arrest the defendant and convey him before
such justice, and notify the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, thereof.
SEC. 1621. (1553.) Trial.—26. The defendant shall be entitled to a
trial within twenty-four hours after_being brought before the justice;
and if the trial shall not commence within that time, he shall be dis
charged from custody.

SEC. 1622. (1554.) Continuance—Special bait—41. When a cause is
commenced by capias, continuance shall not be granted except by con
sent, except on motion of the defendant, supported by affidavit, show
ing that he has a defense against the plaintifff’s claim, and the reasons
why he can not then establish such defense; and such continuance
shall not be for longer than sixty days; and such defendant shall give
special bail or be committed to jail in default thereof.
SEC. 623. (1555.) Special bail—Form.-42. Such special bail shall be
entered on the docket of the justice, in substantially the following
form:
I acknowledge myself special bail for the appearance of A. B. to this suit on the —
day of , 18—. (Signed) 0- D
Test: E. F., Justice.
SEC. 1624. (1556.) Discharge—Surrender—Costs.—43. After such de
fendant has been committed to jail, he may at any time be discharged
by the justice on such bail being entered, and any special bail may, at
any time before ﬁnal judgment against himself, surrender his princi
pal, when he shall give other bail or be committed as in the ﬁrst in
stance; and such bail shall then be discharged on the payment of all
costs in the proceedings against him as such bail.
SEC. 1625. (1557.) Liability of bad—~14. If a defendant at large on
special bail, as above provided, shall fail to appear at the time and
place set for trial, the cause shall be heard and determined in his ab
sence, and such special bail shall be liable to the plaintifff for the
amount of such judgment unless he surrender his principal before
judgment against himself.
SEC. 1626. (1558.) Capias ad satisfaciendum.-Execution against body.
—97. Execution shall not be entered against the body, except as here
inafter provided.
SEC. 1627, (1559.) Affidavit—98. The creditor wishing such execu
tion, his agent or attorney, shall ﬁle with the justice an afﬁdavit
charging the debtor with fraudulently concealing, removing, or trans~
ferring his property subject to execution, with intent to defraud or de
lay such creditor, or that he has monies, rights, credits or effects,
with which the judgment of such creditor, or some part thereof, might
be paid, and which he fraudulently withholds or conceals with aview
to delay or defraud his creditor. 

SEC. 1628. (1560.) Contents—Finding to be speciﬁc.—99. Such afﬁ
davit need not designate speciﬁcally any property, monies, or effects
fraudulently removed, transferred, concealed, or withheld by such
debtor; but the justice or jury, in determining the matters in issue be
tween the parties, if the ﬁnding be for the creditor, shall designate in
such ﬁnding the monies, effects, property, or things in action which
have been thus removed, concealed, transferred, or withheld, and also
the value thereof.
SEC. 1629. (1561.) Summons—100. Upon the ﬁling of such afﬁdavit.
such justice shall issue a summons, requiring such debtor to appear
and show cause why execution against his body should not issue.
SEC. 1630. (1562.) Service and Hamlin—101. Such summons shall be
made returnable in ﬁve days from date, and be served and returned in
the same manner as other summonses.
SEC. 1631. (1563.) Default—Hearing.—102. If such debtor fail to ap-i
pear on the return day, the justice may enter default, and hear andi
determine the same in his absence; or a jury may be empaneled for that
purpose, at the request of the creditor.

SEC. 1632. (1564.) Issue—Trial.—103. If such debtor appear to such
afﬁdavit, and issue be taken to the country thereon, it shall be tried
by the justice, or a jury shall be empaneled, at the request of either
party, to try the same, as in other cases.
SEC. 1633. (1565.) Commitment—104. If such trial be determined
against such debtor, and he will not forthwith surrender for the ben
eﬁt of such creditor the monies, effects, property, or things in action,
which may be found to have been removed, concealed, transferred, or
withheld, or pay the value thereof, an execution shall issue against his
body, and he shall be arrested and committed to the prison of the
county, there to be conﬁned until duly discharged according to law.
SEC. 1634. (1566.) Defendant leaving state—Arrest.—105. If it be
made to appear, by afﬁdavit, that the plaintifff has reason to believe
that such debtor will leave the state before determination of the mat
ters in issue, a capias ad respondcndum shall forthwith issue against
such debtor, and be served and executed .as in a personal action.
SEC. 1635- (1567-) Release on bail—Surrender.—106. Such debtor, on
being arrested, may be released from arrest on giving special bail;
and may be surrendered by such special bail, in discharge of his re
cognizance, in like manner as is provided for in other cases of special
bail in this act.
SEC. 1636. (1568.) Recognizance.—-107. The condition of the recog
nizance of such special bail shall be, that such execution debtor will
surrender his body in execution if a capias ad satisfacz'end'um shall be
awarded against him, or pay the value of the property or other effects
found to be concealed or otherwise withheld; which condition shall be
implied from the words “ special bail” in the undertaking on the
docket.
SEC. 1637. (1569.) Constable may take bail.--108. The constable
making such arrest may take such reconizance of bail, either before
or after such debtor is committed to prison, and shall make return of '_
his proceedings.
SEC. 1638. (1570.) Proceedings against special bail.-109. The like
proceedings shall be had on such recognizance of special bail as are
authorized by this act against special bail for the appearance of a part,"
arrested on a capilas ad respondendum, and the same taken and entered
in like manner and form; but the surety shall only be liable to the
extent of the value of the effects found to be fraudulently withheld,
concealed, transferred, or removed.
SEC. 1639. (1571.) Forms prescribed—~12? The following forms shall
be used by justices, as nearly as the circumstances will permit; but
no writ or judgment shall be invalid for want of form, if it contains
the substance:
State of Indiana, _
Clark County, }85'
To any constable of Charlestown township: You are hereby commanded to summon
John Doe to appear before me, at my ofﬁce, on the 1st day of January, 1852, at ten
o’clock in the forenoon, to answer Richard Roe in a complaint wherein he claims the
sum of ten dollars; and return then and there this writ.
Dated this 10th day of December, 1851. RICHARD STiLas, Justice. [sun]
State of Indiana, _
Clark County, lss'
To any constable of Clark county: You are commanded to take John Doe, and forth
with bring him before me, at my ofﬁce, to answer Richard Roe on a complaint, wherein
he claims ninety dollars, and notify the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, of such arrest;
and have then and there this writ.
Dated this 10th day of December, 1851. , RICHARD STILES, Justice. [ssnn]
State of Indiana, _
- Clark County, lss'
To any constable of Clark county: You are commanded to summon John Sfiles and
Peter Warner to appear before me, at my ofﬁce, on the 1st day of January, 1852, at ten
o’clock in the forenoon, to testify on the part of the plaintifff in the case of John Doe
1:. Richard Roe; and have then and there this writ.
Dated this 10th day of December, 1851. RICHARD STILES, Justice. [satin]
State of Indiana, } 5_
Clark County, ‘
To any-constable of Clark county: \Vhereas, John Doe obtained judgment against
Richard Roe, as appears of record on the docket now in my possession, for ﬁfteen
dollars, with interest from the 1st day of January, 1852, together with ﬁve dollars for
costs: You are thereforee commanded to make the same, together with all accruing
costs, by levy and sale of the goods of Richard Roe, and make return, thereof within
six months from date. .
Dated this 20th day of January, 1852.
State of Indiana, }Ss_
Clark County, '
To any constable of Clark county: Whereas, John Doe obtained judgment against
Richard Roe, as appears of record on a docket now in my possession, for ﬁfteen dollars,
with interest from the let day of January, 1852, together with ﬁve dollars for costs;
And whereas, a writ of capias ad srttisfacz‘endum has been awarded on said judgment
against the said Richard Roe: You are thereforee commanded to take said Richard
Roe, and unless he pay said judgment, costs, and accruing costs, commit him to jail
until discharged by law.
Dated this 10th day of January, 1852.
State of Indiana, }85_
Clark County, '
To any constable of Clark county: Whereas, John Doe has ﬁled with me the afﬁ
davit and bond necessary to entitle him to a writ of attachment against Richard Roe
for the sum of ﬁfty dollars, claimed to be due said John Doe from the said Richard
Roe: You are thereforee commanded to attach the goods, chattels, rights, credits,
monies, and effects of said Richard Roe in your county, to be kept and disposed of ac
cording to law, and make legal return hereof.
Dated this 1st day of January, 1852.

SEC. 640. (1572.) Use Of court forms—128. In all other cases not
herein provided for, justices shall adopt and use the forms prescribed
for use in the circuit court, with such variations as circumstances
may require.
SEC. 1641. (6555.) Fees—24. The fees of justices of the peace shall be
as follows:
For each summons or capias, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For every examination on a criminal information on oath, ﬁfty cents.
For swearing each witness, ﬁve cents.
\__ For every warrant in a criminal cause, twenty-ﬁve cents.
y For every trial, on complaint for unlawful detention of lands or
! \ltenements, one dollar.
\? ,"Q'For issuing every attachment for contempt, twenty-ﬁve cents.
\‘r' ‘ ' For taking acknowledgment of a deed or power of attorney, twenty
“ \th s," ﬁve cents.
_, v For order for removing pauper from county, ﬁfty cents.
- For certifying deScription of a boat adrift or an estray, thirty-ﬁve
z cents. _
*' For warrant of certiﬁcate of appraisement, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For taking and certifying depositions, twenty-ﬁve cents.
‘ And for each one hundred words therein, ten cents.
" For each process required by law, and not herein enumerated, twenty
live cents.
at.
For every writing or record not herein provided for, every one
hundred words, ten cents.
For every trial on default, twenty-five cents.
For every trial, where defense is made, one dollar.
For each additional day occupied in trial, after the ﬁrst, one dollar.
For certifying copies of all proceedings, for each one hundred words,
ten cents. .
For entering continuances, ten cents.
For every bond of recognizance, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For every venire for summoning a jury, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For subpoenas for witnesses, to include all called for at one time,
twenty-ﬁve cents.
For each transfer, assignment, or docket of judgment, twenty-five
cents.
For issuing execution, twenty-ﬁve cents. ,
For each oath not herein otherwise provided, ﬁve cents.
For rendering every ﬁnal judgment, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For trial of right of property and judgment, one dollar.
For swearing jury, ten cents.
For making up docket, for every one hundred words, ten cents.
For each writ of attachment against property, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For making return of ﬁnes, for each mile necessarily traveled, to
be paid out of the county treasury, ten cents.
For transmitting papers in case of appeal, twenty-ﬁve cents.
For writing an afﬁdavit, twenty-ﬁve cents.

