Be it enacted by the legislature of the state of Kansas:
SEC. 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil
procedure of the state of Kansas.
Deering v. Boyle, 8 Kas. E2T; Ho»e v. Williams, 5 Kns. 483; Bd. of Ed. v. Scovll
SEC. 2. The rule of the common law, that statutes in
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to this
code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed,
with a view to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice. .
SEC. 3. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into:
First, Actions. Second, Special proceedings.
SEC. 4. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement or
protection of a right, the redress or prevention ot a wrong, or the punish
ment of a public oifeuse.
SEC. 5. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
SEC. nd,
Criminal.
SEC. ted by the state
as a party, against a person charged with a public offense, for the punishment thereof.
SEC. 8. Every other action is a civil action.
SEC. 9. Where the violation of a right admits of both a
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged
in the other.
Neltzcll T. Concord
SEC. 10. The distinction between actions at law and
suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore
existing, are abolished; and in their place there shall be, hereafter, but
one form of action, which shall be called a civil action.
7 Kas. 43; State v. Jellcrsuu Co. 11 Kas. 70; Dccrlng V. Boyle, 8 Ka>. ,v.7;
2 Kns. *».
SEC. 11. In such action, the party complaining shall beknown as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
ret. v. Harston, 6 Kan. 85S; State ex rtl. v. Jefferson Co. 11 kas. 10.
SEC. 12. There can be no feigned issues; but a question
of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a jury upon
an order for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact
to be tried; and such order is the only authority necessary for a trial.
ARTICLE 3.— TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
SECTION.
13. This article not applicable to what
actions.
14. Right of action not revived, when.
15. Civil actions to be commenced within
what time.
16. Limitation of actions for recovery of
real property.
17. Person under legal disability may
bring action for recovery of real
property two years after disability
removed.
18. Limitation of actions other than for
the recovery of real property.
SECTION.
19. Person under legal disability may
bring action other than for recovery
of real property, one year after dis
ability removed.
20. Action shall be deemed commenced
when; attempt equivalent to com
mencement.
21. Limitation not to run when person
has absconded or is concealed.
22. Action barred in other state, barred
here.
23. New action may be commenced, when.
24. When payment or acknowledgment
in writing revives cause of action.
25. Right of action barred, shall be un
available.
SEC. 13. This article shall not apply to actions already
commence,^ but the statutes now in force shall be applicable to such
cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the
form.
SEC. 14. Any right of action, which shall have been
barred by any statute heretofore m force, shall not be deemed to be re
vived by the provisions of this article.
SEC. 15. Civil actions can only be commenced within
peri0ds prescribed in this article, after the cause of action shall have
accrued ; but where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed
by statute, the action shall be governed by such limitation.
1 Kaa. 303; Bonifant v. Doniphan, 3 Kan. 28.
SEC. 16. Actions for the recovery of real property, or
f°r the determination of any adverse right or interest therein, can only
be brought within the periods hereinafter prescribed, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, and at no time thereafter:
First. An action for the recovery of roal property sold on execution,
brought by the execution debtor, his heirs, or any person claiming under
hi™* by title acquired, after the date of the judgment, within five years
after the date of the recording of the deed made in pursuance of the sale.
Second. An action for the recovery of real property sold by executors,
administrators or guardians, upon an order or judgment of a court direct
ing such sale, brought by the heirs or devisees of the deceased person, or
the ward or his guardian, or any person claiming under any or either of
them, by title acquired after the date of the judgment or order, within
five years after the date of the recording of the deed made in pursuance
of the sale.
Third. An action for the recovery of real property sold for taxes,
•within two years after the date of the recording of the tax deed.
Fourth. An action for the recovery of real property not hereinbefore
provided for, within fifteen years.
Fifth. An action for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible deten
tion only, of real property, within two years.
SEC. 17. Any person entitled to bring an action for the
recovery of real property, who may be under any legal disability when
the cause of action accrues, may bring his action within two years after
the disability is removed.
SEC. 18. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of
real property, can only be brought within the following periods, after
the cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards:
First. Within five years: An action upon any agreement, contract or
promise in writing.
Second. Within three years: An action upon contract, not in writing,
cxpress or implied; an action upon a liability created by statute, other
than a forfeiture or penalty.
Third. Within two years: An action for trespass upon real property;
,. e * i • j i • • ... ' ' i • i j- '
an action lor taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including
actions for the specific recovery of personal property; an action for
injury to the rights of another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter
enumerated; an action for relief on the ground of fraud — the
cause of action in such case shall not be deemed to have accrued until
the discovery of the fraud.
Fourth. Within one year: An action for libel, slander, assault, battery,
malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment; an action upon a
statute for a penalty or forfeiture, except where the statute imposing it
prescribes a different limitation. •
Fifth. An action upon the official bond or undertaking of an execu-i
tor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other officer, or upon the
bond or undertaking given in attachment, injunction, arrest, or in any
case whatever required by statute, can only be brought within five years
after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sixth. An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, can only be
brought within five years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
SEC. 19. If a person entitled to bring enaction other
than for the recovery of real property, except for a penalty or forfeiture,
be, at the time the cause of action accrued, under any legal disability,
every such person shall be entitled to bring such action within one year
after such disability shall be removed.
SEC. 20. An action shall be deemed commenced, within
the meaning of this article, as to each defendant, at the date of the summons which is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint contractor
or otherwise united in interest with him. Where service by publication is proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at the date of5
the first publication. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed
equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this article, when the party faithfully, properly and diligently endeavors to
procure a service; but such attempt must be followed by the first publi
cation or service of the summons within sixty days.
SEC. 21. If, when a cause of action accrues against aa
person, he be out of the state, or has absconded or concealed himself, the
period limited for the commencement of the action shall not begin to
run until he comes into the state, or while he is so absconded or con
cealed; and if, after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the
state, or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his absence or conceal
ment shall not be computed as any part of the period within which the
action must be brought.
SEC. 22. Where the cause of action has arisen in another
state or country between non-residents of this state, and, by the laws of
the state or country where the cause of action arose, an action cannot be
maintained thereon by reason of lapse of time, no action [can be] maintained thereon in this state; *[and no action shall be maintained in this
state on any judgment or decree rendered in another state or country
against a resident of this state, where the cause of action upon which
such judgment or decree was rendered could not have been maintained
this state at the time the action thereon was commenced in such
other state or country, by reason of lapse of time.]
nil after the*, declared void. Dodge v. Coffin, 15 Kas. 477.
SEC. 23. If any action be commenced within due time,
and a judgment thereon for the plaintifff be reversed, or if the plaintifff
foil i11 such action otherwise than upon the merits, and the time limited
for the same shall have expired, the plaintifff, or, if he die, and the cause
°^ ac'iori survive, his representatives, may commence a new action within
one year after the reversal or failure.
SEC. 24. In any case founded on contract, when any
part of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an acknowledgment °f an existing liability, debt or claim, or any promise to pay the
same, shall have been made, an action may be brought in such case within
the period prescribed for- the same, after such payment, acknowledgment
or promise; but such acknowledgment or promise must be in writing.
. L , • , r. L , , , , , • y , , ,
signed by the party to be charged thereby.
v. Akers, 16 Kas. 166; Steele v. Souder, 20 Kas. 39; Clawson T. McCnne, SO
SEC. 25. When a right of action is barred by the pro
visions of any statute, it shall be unavailable either as a cause of action
or ground of defense.
1 ARTICLE 4.— PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
SECTION.
26. Action to be prosecuted in name of
party in interest.
27. Assignment not to prejudice a defense.
28. Executor, trustee, etc., may sue with
out joining beneficiary.
29. Married women may sue and be sued.
30. Husband and wife, defense by.
31. Action by infant plaintifff, how to be
brought.
32. Liability of guardian for costs, etc.
33. Infant defendant, defense by.
34. Guardian, how appointed.
35. Who may be joined as plaintifffs.
36. Who may be made defendants.
37. Parties united in interest must be
joined.
38. One may sue or defend for benefit of
all, when.
SECTION.
39. Persons severally liable may be sued
at option of plaintifff.
40. Action does not abate by death, mar
riage, etc.
41 . General rule as to who must be parties.
42. Person interested in real or personal
property may be made party, when.
43. How order obtained for safe-keeping,
etc., of property claimed by third
person, and how latter brought in,
barred, etc.
44. Sheriff to have benefit of preceding
section.
45. In action against officer for property,
plaintifff in execution may be sub
stituted.
45 a. Interpleader.
456. Cost*.
SEC. ted in the name
Qf j.ne reaj party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section
twenty-eight; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the
assignment of a thing in action, not arising out of contract.
14 Kas. 184; McCrnm v. Cnrby, 11 Kas. 470; State v. Jefferson Co. 11 Kas. 70;
SKas. KB; Coffman v. Parker, 11 Kas. 12: Stewart v. Balderston, 10 Kas. 131;
Craft, 8 Kas 184; Williams v. Norton, 3 Kas. 895; Crowell v. Ward, 16 Kas. 60;
3 Kns. 415; Statu v. Anderson, 5 Kas. 90; Craft v. Jackson Co. 5 Kas. lf&:
15 Kan. 232; Bartlettv. State. 18 Kas. 99; Swenson v. Plow Co. 14 Kas. 887.
SEC. 27. In the case of an assignment of a thing in
action, the action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setou? or °*;ner defense now allowed; but this section shall not apply to
negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in
good faith and upon good consideration, before due.
SEC. 28. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee
of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract
is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, may bring an action without joining with him the person for
whose benefit it is prosecuted. Officers may sue and be sued in such
name as is authorized by law. and official bonds may be sued upon in the
same way.
J ' J r
SEC. 29. A married woman may sue and be sued in the
sanie manner as if she were unmarried.
Jackson Co. T. C
Knaggs v. Mastin, 9Kaa. 547; Furrow v. Chsp
SEC. 30. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right; and if her husband neglect to
defend, she may defend for his right also.
SEC. 31. The action of an infant must be brought by
his guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his next
friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of
the infant, or substitute the guardian of the infant, or any person, as to
the next friend.
SEC. 32. The guardian, or next friend, is liable for the
costs of the action brought by him, and when he is insolvent, the court
may require security for them. Either may be a witness in aii action
brought by him.
SEC. 33. The defense of an infant must be by a guardian
for the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge. The appointment
cannot be made until after the service of the summons in the
.. ,. . , . ., . - ,
action, as directed in this code.
SEC. 34. The appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days after the return of the summons. If he be under
the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the appointment may be
made upon the application of any friend of the infant, or on that of the
plaintifff in [j;he] action.
SEC. 35. All persons having an interest in the subject
t \i i- i • i_x • • it i- p i 11 i • • i
of the action, and in obtaining the relier demanded, may be joined as
plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this article.
SEC. 36. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims, an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who
is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the
,. • i i Ii •
question involved therein.
583; Scarborough v. Sm
SEC. 37. Of the parties to the action, those who are
imited in interest must be joined, as plaintifffs or defendants; but if the
consent of one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obi'ii i i iniiii i • i.i-ti
tamed, he may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in the
petition.
SEC. 38. When the question is one of common or genml
interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous,
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or
j f ] e iT- i £i f 11
more may sue or defend tor the benefit ot all.
SEC. 39. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory
notes, and indorsers and guarantors, may all or any of them be
included in the same action at the option of the plaintifff.
T. Korber, 12 Kas. 618; Silvers Y. Foster, 9 Kas. CO; Jefferson Co. v. Swain, 5 Kas.
Fuller, T Kas. ail.
SEC. 40. An action does not abate by the death or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, during its
pendency, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the
death or other disability of a party, the court may allow the action to
continue by or against his representative or successor in interest. In
case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in
the name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to
whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in the action.
SEC. 41. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a determination of
the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
, ,111 111 ii- r r
court must order them to be brought in.
Wright, 3 Kan. 227.
SEC. 42. When, in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, any person having an interest in the property appliesto be made a party, the court may order it to be done.
13 Kss. 112.
SEC. 43. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before answer,
in any action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal property,
that sorae third party, without collusion with him, has or makes a claim
to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the
same, as the court may direct, the court may make an order for the safekeeping,
or for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of thesub. f n^V •• i v. -L j- i J J
ject ot the action, to such person as it may direct, and an order requiring
suc,h third party to appear, in a reasonable time, and maintain or relin
quish his claim against the defendant. If such third party, being served
with a copy of the order by the sheriff, or such other person as the court
may direct, fail to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim
in respect to the subject of the action, against the defendant therein.
If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself defend
ant in the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be dis
charged from all liability to either of the other parties in respect to the
subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order of the court
for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof.
SEC. ion shall be
applicable to an action brought against a sheriff or other officer, for the
recovery of personal property, taken by him under execution, or for the
Procee<is of such property so taken and sold by him; and the defendant
in any such action shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions
against the party in whose favor the execution issued, upon exhibiting
to the court the process under which he acted, with his affidavit that the
property, for the recovery of which , or its proceeds, the action is brought,
was taken under such process.
SEC. 45. In an action against a sheriff or other officer,
for the recovery of property taken under an execution and replevied by
^ne plaintifff in such action, the court may, upon application of the
defendant and of the party in whose favor the execution issued, permit
the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the cost being
given.
SEC. 1. Any person claiming property, money, effects
or credits attached, may interplead in the cause, verifying the same by
anidavit, made by himself, agent or attorney, and issues may be made
upon such interpleader and shall be tried as like issues between plaintifff
and defendant, and without any unnecessary delay.
SEC. 2. In all cases of interpleader, costs may be
adjudged for or against either party, as in ordinary cases.
March ii), 1877.
ARTICLE 5.- THE COUNTY IN WEIGH ACTIONS ARE TO BE BROUGHT.
SECTION.
46. What actions relating to property,
local.
47 Exceptions.
48. Other local actions.
49. Where to be brought against a corpora
tion, generally.
50. Against railroad company, etc.
SECTION.
51. Against turnpike company.
52. Exception.
51. Against non-resident.
54. For divorce.
55. Other actions.
5S. Venue changed, when.
SEC. 46. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county in which the subject of the action is situated,
except as provided in section forty-seven-:
First. For the recovery of real property, or of any estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of any such right or
interest.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or other
encumbrance or charge.
SEC. 47. If the real property, the subject of the action,
be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or if it consists
of separate tracts, situated in two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county in which any tract or part thereof is situated,
unless it be an action to recover possession thereof; and if the property
be an entire tract, situated in two or more counties, an action to recover
the possession thereof may be brought in either of such counties; but
if it consists of separate tracts in different counties, the possession of
such tracts must be recovered by separate actions, brought in the coun
ties where they are situated. An action to compel the specific perform
ance of a contract of sale of real estate, may be brought in the county
where the defendants, or any of them, reside.
SEC. 48. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
First. An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture or penalty, imposed
by a statute, except that when it is imposed for an offense cominitted on a river or other stream of water, or road, which is the boundary
of two or more counties, the action may be brought in any county bor
dering on such river, water-course or road, and opposite to the place
where the offense was committed.
Second. An action, against a public officer for an act done by him in
virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect of his official duties.
Third. An action on the official bond or undertaking of a public
officer.
SEC. 49. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this article, against a corporation created
by the laws of this state or of the territory of Kansas, may be brought
in the county in which it is situated, or has its principal office or place
of business, or in which any of the principal officers thereof may reside,
or may be summoned ; but if such corporation be an insurance com
pany, the action may be brought in the county where the cause of ac
tion, or some paii thereof, arose.
SEC. 50. An action against a railroad company, or an
owner of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for any injury to persons
or property upon the road or line, or upon a liability as a carrier,
may be brought in any county through or into which said road or line
passes.
SEC. 51. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this article, against a turnpike road com
pany, may be brought in any county in which any part of the road lies.
SEC. 52. The provisions of this article shall not apply
in the case of any corporation created by a law of this state or the ter
ritory of Kansas, whose charter prescribes the place where, alone, a suit
against such corporation may be brought.
SEC. 53. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this article, against a non-resident of this
state or a foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in which
there may be property of, or debts owing to, said defendant, or where
said defendant may be found; but if said defendant be a foreign insur
ance company, the action may be brought in any county where the
cause, or some part thereof, arose.
SEC. 54. An action for a divorce may be brought in the
county of which the plaintifff is an actual resident at the time of filing
the petition.
SEC. 55. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or some one of the defendants, reside ormay be summoned.
7 Kan. 347; Wheat v. R'y Co. 4 Kas. 370; Sattigv. Small, 1 Kas. 170.
SEC. 56. In all cases in which it shall be made to
appear to the court that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the
coullty where the suit is pending, or when the judge is interested or has
been of counsel in, the case or subject matter thereof, or is related to
either of the parties, or is otherwise disqualified to sit, the court may,
on application of either party, change the place of trial to some county
where such objection does not exist.
v. llcyuold*, 8 Kas. (&).
ARTICLE 6.— COMMENCEMENT OF A CIVIL ACTION.
SECTION.
57. Civil action, how commenced.
68. Parties entitled to copies of pleadings
or other papers.
59. Summons to issue, requisites of.
60. Summons shall be issued to other
county, when.
61. Time of service; returnable, when.
62. Other writs may be issued, when.
SERVICE OP SUMMONS — ACTUAL SERVICE.
63. By whom to be served.
64. How.
65. Return must state, what.
66. Must be made, when.
67. What equivalent to service.
68. How served on corporation generally,
680. Duty of certain corporations.
686. The same; service o£ process upon.
68 c. Neglect to designate; how process
served.
68 d. Service by copy.
69. On insurance company.
70. On foreign corporation.
SECTIOW.
71. Service upon infant
CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE.
72. Sen-ice by publication.
73. Affidavit necessary.
74. Publication, how made.
75. When service complete, how proved;
default not to be entered until proof
made.
76. Personal service out of state.
77. Opening judgment on publication;
effect on purchaser.
78. How to proceed against unknown
heirs.
79. Proceedings against defendants when
not all served.
80. Action against co-defendant not bar
red.
81. Filing petition, notice of action pend
ing.
82. Record of judgment to be made in
county in which part of real prop
erty is situated.
SEC. 57. A civil action may be commenced in a court
of rgco^^ by filing in the office of the clerk of the proper court a petition, and causing a summons to be issued thereon.
18 Kas. &>*; Carney v. Taylor, 4 Kas. 178.
SEC. 58. A copy of the petition need not accompany
j.fle snmmonS) but the defendant or plaintifff shall be entitled to a copy
of the petition, or any other paper filed in the action, upon application
to the clerk therefore; and the costs of such copy shall be taxed among
the costs in the action.
SEC. 59. The summons shall be issued by the clerk,
upon a written precipe filed by the plaintifff; shall be under the seal of the
court from which the same shall issue, shall be signed by the clerk, and
shall be dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff of
the county, and command him to notify the defendant or defendant?,
named therein, that he or they have been sued, and must answer the
petition filed by the plaintifff, giving his name, at a time stated therein,
5 or the petition will be taken as true, and judgment rendered
accordingly; and where the action is on contract for the recovery of
money only, there shall be indorsed on the writ the amount, to be fur
nished in the precipe, for which, with interest, judgment will be taken,
if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant fail to appear, judg
ment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs,
SEC. 60. Where the action is rightly brought in any
' county, according to the provisions of article five, a summons shall be
issue(l to any other county against any one or more of the defendants,
at the plaintifffs request.
SEC. 61. The summons shall be served and returned by
the officer to whom it is delivered; except when issued to any other
county than the one in which the action is commenced, within ten days
from its date; and, when issued to another county, shall be made returnable in not less than ten nor more than sixty days from the date thereof,
• IT !• c> IT. i • •• * i
at the option ot the party having it issued.
SEC. 62. When a writ is returned "Not summoned,"
other writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be
summoned; and when defendants reside in different counties, writs may
be issued to such counties at the same time.
SERVICE OF SUMMONS — ACTUAL SERVICE.
SEC. 63. The summons shall be served by the officer to
whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original writ the time and
manner of service. It may be also served by any person not a party to
the action, appointed by the officer to whom it is directed. The authority
of such person shall be indorsed on the writ. When the writ is served
by a person appointed by the officer to whom it is directed, or when the
service is made out of this state, the return shall be verified by oath or
affirmation.
SEC. 64. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual
place of residence, at any time before the return day.
337; Button v.Hobson, 7 Kas. 196; Siracock v. Nat.
SEC. 65. In all cases the return must state the time and
manner of service.
Ingraham v. McGraw, 3 Kas. 551; Bond v. Wilson, 8 Kas. 2J8; Kirkwood v. Reed
Starkweather v. Morgau, 15 Kas. 274.
SEC. 66. The officer to whom the summons is directed,
must return the same at the time therein stated.
Branner v. Chapman, 11 Kae. 120; Bondv. Wils
SEC. 67. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons,
or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to
service.
Hendrix v. Fuller, 7 Kas. 331 ; Moore v. W
SEC. 68. A summons against a corporation may be
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors,
or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officer is not found in
the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk, or managing
agent; or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left
at the office or usual place of business of such corporation, with the
person having charge thereof.
SEC. 1. Every railroad company or corporation, and
every stage company doing business in the state of Kansas, or having
agents doing business therein for such corporation or company, is hereby
required to designate some person residing in each county, into which
its railroad line or stage route may or does run, or in which its busi-M
ness is transacted, on whom all process and notices issued by any court
of record or justices of the peace of such county may be served.
SEC. 2. In every case such railroad company or corporation,
and stage company, shall file a certificate of the appointment
and designation of such person, in the office of the clerk of the district
c 1 1 • -r . i i .-, iii « /.
court ot the county in which such person resides; and the service of any
process upon the person so designated, in any civil action, shall be
deemed and held to be as effectual and complete as if service of such
process were made upon the president, or other chief officer of such cor
poration or stage company. Any railroad company, for?] corporation,
or stage company, may revoke the appointment and designation of such
person upon whom process may be served, as hereinbefore provided, by
appointing any other person qualified as above specified, and filing a cer
tificate of such appointment, as aforesaid ; but every second or subse
quent appointment shall also designate the person whose place is filled
by such appointment.
SEC. 3. If any railroad or stage company, or corporafail
to designate and appoint such person, as in tne preceding sections is provided and required, such process may be served on any local
superintendent of repairs, freight agent, agent to sell tickets, or station
, ,
,
keeper, of such company or corporation in such county, or such process
mav ^g served by leaving a copy thereof, certified by the officer to whom
the same is directed, to be a true copy, at any depot or station of such
company or corporation, in such county, with some person in charge
thereof, or in the employ of such company or corporation, and such
service shall be held and deemed complete and effectual.
SEC. 4:. In all cases where service of any process can.not be had upon the person designated by such company or corporation
Persona^y> service may be made by leaving a certified copy of such process at the usual place of residence of such person, or as in the last pre
ceding section, and the same shall be deemed complete and effectual.
SEC. 69. Where the defendant is an incorporated insur
ance company, and the action is brought in a county in which there is
an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of such
agency.
SEC. 70. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
•, v . ' ° . , . ,, . , , ,, . • , '
having a managing agent in this state, the service may be upon such
agent.
SEC. 71. When the defendant is a minor, under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian
or father, or if neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or
the person having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he
lives. If neither of these can be found, or if the minor be more than
fourteen years of age, service on him alone will be sufficient. The man
ner of service may DC the same as in the case of adults.
CONSTRUCTIVE SERVICE.
SEC. 72. Service maybe made by publication in either
o£ the following cases: In actions brought under the forty-sixth and
forty-seventh sections of this code, where any or all of the defendants
resi^e out of the state; in actions brought to establish or set aside a will.
where any or all of the defendants reside out of the state; in actions to
obtain a divorce when the defendant resides out of this state; in actions
brought against a non-resident of this state, or a foreign corporation,
having in this state property or debts owing to them, sought to betaken
by any of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any way; in
actions which relate to, or the subject of which is, real or personal prop
erty in this state, where any defendant has or claims a lien or interest,
actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partly in excluding him from any interest therein, and such defendant
is a non-resident of the state, or a foreign corporation ; and in all actions
where the defendant, being a resident of the state, has departed there
from, or from the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud
his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself con
cealed therein with the like intent.
SEC. 73. Before service can be made by publication, an
affidavit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be made within
this state, on the defendant or defendants, to be served by publication,
an(l showing that the case is one of those mentioned in the preceding
When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make
service by publication.
v. Miller, 9 Kas. 898; McBride v. Hartwell.S Kas. 411; Dietricb v. Lang, 11
SEC. i:
— weej{Si jn some newspaper printed in the county where the petition
fi'e^i if there be any printed in such county; and if there be not, in
some newspaper printed in this state, of general circulation in that
county. It shall state the court in which the petition is filed, the names
of the parties, and must notify the defendants thus to be served that he
or they hare been sued and must answer the petition filed by the plaintifff,
on or before a time to be stated (which shall not be less than forty-one
days from the date of the first publication), or the petition will be taken
as true, and judgment, the nature of which shall be stated, will be ren
dered accordingly.
(3602) §75. SEO. 75. Service by publication shall be deemed complete
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time prescribed in the preceding section; and such service shall be proved by the
affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or principal clerk, or other per
son knowing the same. No judgment by default shall be entered on
such service until proof thereof be made, and approved by the court,
and filed.
SEC. 76. In all cases where service may be made by
publication, personal service of summons may be made out of the state
by the sheriff of the county in which such service may be made. Such
summons shall be issued by the clerk, under seal of the court, and
directed to the defendant or defendants to be served, and shall notify
him or them that he or they have been sued by the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
naming him or them, and requiring him or them to answer the petition
filed by the plaintifff or plaintifffs in the clerk's office, of the court, which
shall be named, within sixty days from the day of service, or the said
petition will be taken as true, and judgment rendered accordingly. Such
service may be proved by the affidavit of the person making the same,
before a clerk of a court of record, or other officer holding the seal
thereof, or before some commissioner appointed by the governor of this
state, under an act providing for the appointment of commissioners to
take depositions, etc.: Provided, That such service, when made and
proved as aforesaid, shall have the same force and effect as service
obtained by publication, and no other or greater force or effect.
SEC. 77. A party against whom a judgment or order
T. -L i i -11 fi • ii i i V L- •
has been rendered, without other service than by publication in a newspaper,
may, at any time within three years after the date of the judg
ment or order, have the same opened, and be let in to defend. Before
the judgment or order shall be opened, the applicant shall give notice
to the adverse party of his intention to make such an application, and
shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require
them to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, by
affidavit, that during the pendency of the action he had no actual
notice thereof in time to appear in court and make his defense; but the title to any property, the subject of the judgment or order sought to be
opened, which by it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed to a pur
chaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings under this section, nor shall they affect the title of any property sold before judg
ment under an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing of an
application to open a judgment or order, as provided by this section,
shall be allowed to present counter affidavits to show that during the
pendency of the action the applicant had notice thereof in time to
appear in court and make his defense.
SEC. 78. In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants, and it shall
appear by the affidavit of the plaintifff, annexed to his petition, that the
names of such heirs or devisees, or any of them, and their residence, are
unknown to the plaintifff, proceedings may be had against such unknown
heirs or devisees, without naming them; and the court shall make
such order respecting service as may be deemed proper. If service by
publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less than three weeks.
SEC. 79. Where the action is against two or more
defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not all of them,
the plaintifff may proceed as follows:
First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract,
he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court
otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as thai it may be
enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of
the defendants served; and if they are subject to arrest, against the per
sons of the defendants served.
Second. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may,
without prejudice to his rights against those not served, proceed against
the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only
defendants.
• (3607) § 80. SEC. 80. Nothing in this code shall be so construed as
to make a judgment, against one or more defendants jointly or severally
liable, a bar to another action against those not served.
SEC. 81. When the petition has been filed, the action
is pending, so as to charge third persons with notice of its pendencV)
and while pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in
the subject matter thereof as against the plaintifff's title; but such notice
shall be of no avail unless the summons be served or the first publica
tion made within sixty days after the filing of the petition.
SEC. 82. When_ any part of real property, the subject
matter of an action, is situated in any other county or counties than the
one in which the action is brought, a certified copy of the judgment in
such action must be recorded in the office of the register of deeds, of
such other county or counties, before it shall operate therein as notice,
so as to charge third persons, as provided in the preceding section. It
shall operate as such notice, without record, in the county where it is
rendered.
ARTICLE 7.— JOINDER OF ACTIONS.
SECTION 83. What causes of action may be joined; must affect all the parties, ex
cept, etc.
SEC. 83. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action
in the same petition, whether they be such as have heretofore been
denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of either
one of the following classes:
First. The same transaction or transactions, connected with the same
subject of action.
Second. Contracts, express or implied.
Third. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or
either.
Fourth. Injuries to character.
Fifth. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof.
Sixth. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
the withholding; thereof, and the rents and profits of the same.
Seventh. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by oper
ation of law. But the causes of action so united must all belong to one
of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, except in
actions to enforce mortgages or other liens.
SEC. 84. The pleadings are the written statements, by
the parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims and defenses.
Bliss v. Burncs, McCahon's II. 91 ; Backus v. Clark, 1 Kns 303; Walker v Armstr
Meaghcr v. Morgan, 3 Kas. 37i: Clark v. Kensky, 3 Kas. HSU; Stone v. Young, 4 Kas
Burnei. 8 Ka». 1SW; Davis v. WlUon, 11 Kas. 74; Gllmore v. Norton, 10 Kas. 491- B
tion v. Shaw, IS Kni-. 34.
SEC. 85. The rules of pleading heretofore existing in
(3612) §85.
civil actions are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleading inliivu
A'UnKnv.nj. .... i 1 PL ii £ _j? _i j*— . •_ • -I
actions in courts of record, and the rules by which their sufficiency may
be determined, are those prescribed by this code.
SEC. 86. The only pleadings allowed are: First, The
petition by the plaintifff. Second, The answer or demurrer by the
defendant. Third, The demurrer or reply by the plaintifff. Fourth, The
demurrer by the defendant, to the reply of the plaintifff.
ch. 87,j3j took effect May 12, 1870. Bd.of Ed.v. Shaw,15Kas. 11.
THE PET1TIOK.
SEC. 87. The petition must contain:
First. The name of the court, and the comity in which the action is
brought, and the names of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, followed
by the word " petition."
Second. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in
an<* concise language, and without repetition.
Third. A demand of the relief to which the party supposes himself
entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof
shtil be stated; and, if interest thereon be claimed, the time from which
interest is to be computed shall be also stated.
139; llnme v. Walt. 5Kos. 84; arrcpt, Mayberry v. Kelly, 1 Kns. 116: specific per
v. Bridge Co. McCahon's 11. 107; damages to personal property, Elliott v.
13i: promissory note; Sattig v. Small, 1 Kas. 170; work and labor, Backas v.
303: insurance, W. M. Insurance Co. v. J)ufly, 2 Kas. 347; against county
sureties, Fuller v. Jackson Co. 8 Kas. 445: question of sufficiency canuoc bo raised
court, when, Grcer v. Dunn. 5 Kas. 254; McBrldfi v. HurtweU, 2 Kas. 411 : Hale v.
137; Green v. Adams, 6 Kas. 20i; action fir injuries against city, Topeka v.
311 : action for possension of realty, Pcnnock v. Monroe, 5 Kas. KHi; numerous causes
Stewart v. Bafileiston, 10'Kns. 131 : objection to petition not waived, Fox. v.
214; after answer, Lalthc v. McDonald, 7 Kas. SS4.
SEC. 88. Where the petition contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.
11 Kas. 2132; Stewart v. Ualdcrston, 10 Kas. 144; Andrews v. Alcorn, 13 Kas.
14 Kas. 449.
DEMURRER.
SEC. 89. The defendant may demur to the petition only
i «i •• c -n
when it appears on its tace, either:
First. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of thedefendan*' or *^e subject °f the action.
Second. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue.
Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause.
Fourth. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
Fifth. That several causes of action are improperly joined.
Sixth. That the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
SEC. 90. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the
grounds of objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded
as objecting only that the petition does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a cause of action.
SEC. ion
eighty-nine do not appear upon the face of the petition, the
objection may be taken by answer; and if no objection be taken, either
by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, except only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and
that the petition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.
601 ; Larkin v. Taylor, 5 Kas. 442; Parker v. Wiggins, 10 Kas. 450.
SEC. 92. When a demurrer is sustained, on the ground
misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion of the
plaintifff', shall allow him, with or without costs, in its discretion, to file
petitions, each including such of said causes of action as might
have been joined; and an action shall be docketed for each of said peti
tions, and the same shall be proceeded in without further service.
SEC. 93. The defendant may demur to one or more of
^ several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer to the
residue.
ANSWER.
SEC. 94. The answer shall contain:
First. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
petition controverted by the defendant.
Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense,
counterclaim or set-off, or a right to relief concerning the subject of
the action, in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition.
Third. When relief is sought, the nature of the relief to which the
defendant supposes himself entitled. The defendant may set forth, im
his answer, as many grounds of defense, counterclaim, set-off, and for
relief, as he may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore
denominated legal, or equitable, or both. Each must be separately
stated and numbered, and they must refer, in an intelligible manner, to*
the causes of action which they are intended to answer.
v. Aucriistino, 14 Kas. 58-'; admissions in answer, Wiley v. Eeoknk, 6 Kas. M; s
swer determined in particular cases, Brenner v. Bigelow. 8 Kas. 49li; Auld v. Kl
Wi: Fuller r. Jackson Co. 2 Kas. 44«: Irwinv. Panlelt, 1 Kas. 418; Munn v. Tauh
Mallory v. Lciby. 1 Kas. UT; Diven v. Spicer, 1 Kas. 103.
SEC. ion
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the petition as
the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or connected with the subject of
the action. The right to relief concerning the subject of the action,
,. n • ii ° I- 11 ' i . i <• p -i '
mentioned m the same section, must be a right to relief necessarily or
properly involved in the action for a complete determination thereof, or
settlement of the question involved therein.
SEC. 96. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim,
or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintifff in any subsequent
action thereon; but this section shall not apply to causes of
action which are stricken out of or withdrawn from the answer, as in sections ninety-seven and one hundred and twenty.
SEC. 97. When it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon a counterclaim, the court may either permit0
the new party to be made by a summons, to reply to the counterclaim,
or may direct the counterclaim to be stricken out of the answer, and
made the subject of a separate action.
SEC. 98. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon wntract
or ascertained by the decision of a court.
Crawford, 14 Kas. 503; Carver v. Shel
SEC. 99. When it appears that a new party is necessary
to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit the new party
to be made, if it also appear that, owing to the insolvency or non-resi
dence of the plaintifff, or other cause, the defendant will be in danger of
losing his claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-off.
SEC. 100. When cross demands have existed between
persons \mder such circumstances that, if one had brought an action
against the other, a counterclaim or set-off could have been set «P»
neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or
death of the other; but the two demands must be deemed compensated
so far as they equal each other.
SEC. 101. The guardian of an infant or person of un-f
sound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny, in the answer,
all the material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.
BEPLY.
(3629) § 102. SBC. 102. When the answer contains new matter, the
plaintifff may reply to such new matter, denying, generally or specifically, each allegation controverted by him: and lie may allege, in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition, any new matter not
inconsistent with the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter
in the answer; or he may demur to the same for insufficiency, stat
jng, in his demurrer, the grounds thereof; and he may demur to one or
more of such defenses set up in the answer, and reply to the residue.
Ed. v. Shaw, 15 Kas. 84; Miller v. Brumbaugh, 7 Kas. 843; Ferguson v. Tutt, 8 Kas.
Fuller, 9 Kas. 177.
SEC. 103. If the reply to any defense set up by the
ang^r be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, stating the
grounds of such demurrer.
SEC. 104. When the answer contains new matter constituting a right to relief against a co-defendant concerning the subject
of the action, such co-defendant may demur or reply to such matter in
the same manner as if he were plaintifff, and subject to the same rules,
i» Tii
as far as applicable.
GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.
SEC. 105. The answer or demurrer, by the defendant,
shall be filed within twenty days after the day on which the summons
is returnable; the reply or demurrer shall be filed within thirty days
after the clay on which the summons was made returnable; the demurrer
to the reply shall be filed within forty days after the day on which the
c ** i A i_i
summons was made returnable.
v. McDonald, 18 Kas. 115.
SEC. 106. The court, or any judge thereof in vacation,
may, in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow an
answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time limited
by this act, or by an order enlarge such time.
SEC. 107- Every pleading, in a court of record, must
^ subscribed by the party or his attorney.
SEC. 108- .In a11 actions, allegations of the execution
of written instruments and indorsements thereon, of the existence of a
corporation or partnership, or of any appointment or authority, shall
be taken as true, unless the denial of the same be verified by the affida*i_ *• ii i i • L i i
vit ot the party, his agent or attorney.
Gulf R'y Co . v. Wilson, 10 Kas. 112; School DistriGulf R'y Co v. Wilson, 10 Kas. 112; School District v. Carter, 11 Kas. 447; Reed
108; Washington v. Hobart, 17 Kns. 277; Hlxon y. George, 18 Kas. 259; Wanda
19 Kas. 306; Kccd v. Sexton, 2J Kas. 198.
SEC. ion
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending for au
infant or person of unsound mind, or n person imprisoned.
SEC. 110. If there be several persons united in interest and pleading together, the affidavit maybe made by anyone of such
parties. When a municipal or other corporation is a party, the verifi
cation may be made by an officer thereof, its agent or attorney.
(3638) § 111' ?EC" ll1' The a^^ shall ^ sufficient if it state
that the affiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true.
SEC. 112- ^ a11 ^^ wnere .the .Party pleading is a
non-resident of the county in which the action is brought, or if he
shall be absent from the county where the pleading is filed, an affidavit,
before filing the pleading, stating the substance of the facts after
ward inserted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient verification. Such
affidavit shall be filed with the pleading intended to be verified thereby.
SEC. 113. The affidavit verifying pleadings may be
made before any person before whom a deposition might be taken, and1
must be signed by the party making the same; and the officer before
whom the same was taken shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed
before him, and signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer,
signed officially by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly
made, that the name of the officer was written by himself, and that he
was such officer.
SEC. 114. When the affidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made by the party
himself. It can be made by the agent or attorney only:
First. When the facts are within the personal knowledge of the agent
or attorney.
Second. When the plaintifff is an infant, or of unsound mind, or
imprisoned.
Third. When the pleading to be verified is founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument is in
the possession of the agent or attorney.
Fourth. When the party is not a resident of, or is absent from, the
county.
SEC. 115. In the construction of any. pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.
Balderston, 10 Kas. 148; Sattie v. Small, 1 Kas. 177; W. M. Ins. Co. T. Dufly,
Crowther v. Elliot, 7 Kas. 235; Park v. Tinkham, 9 Kas. 815.
SEC. 116. All fictions in pleadings are abolished.
SEC. 117. The title of a cause shall not be changed in
any of its stages.
SEC. 118. If the action, counterclaim or set-off be
founded on account, or on a note, bill or other written instrument, as
evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be attached to and filed
with the pleading. If not so attached and filed, the reason thereof must
be shown in the pleading.
SEC. 119. If redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted
in any pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of the party prejudiced thereby; and when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite
and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not
apparent, the court may require the pleading to oe made definite and
certain by amendment.
SEC. 120. The court, at any time before the final submission
of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may allow a counterclaim or set-off, set up in the answer, to be withdrawn, and the same
may become the subject of another action; on motion of either party,
to be made at the time such counterclaim or set-off is withdrawn, an
action on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in, as in like cases
after process served; and the court shall direct the time and manner of
pleading therein. If an action be not so docketed, it? may afterwards be
commenced in the ordinary way.
SEC. 121. In pleading a judgment, or other determinai- f ° L a- f r. , . P ..',. ° •• i i, i /v • I,
tion ot a court or othcer of special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient to
state that such judgment or determination was duly given or made; and
the jurisdiction of any such court or officer shall be presumed until the
contrary appears. '
Arno
gher v. Morg
Slmpeon, 9 Ka«. 663; Kronbergy. Eld
SEC. 122. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that the party duly
performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegations be controverted,
the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts show
ing such performance.
SEC. 123. In an action, counterclaim or set-off,
founded upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or other
instrument, for the unconditional payment of money only, it shall be
sufficient for a party to give a copy of the account or instrument, with
all credits, and the indorsements thereon, and to state that there is due
to him on such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specifiedsum,
which he claims, with interest. When others than the makers
of a promissory note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are parties
in the action, it shall be necessary to state, also, the kind of liability of
the several parties, and the facts, as they may be, which fix their liability.
SEC. 124. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title,
and the day of its approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof.
Kaa. 4ST. What courts will take judicial notice of, see Topcka v. Tattle, 5 Kas. 31*;
6Kas. iy,: State v. Pltmau, 1U KM. :-.n; Division of Howard Co. IS K ,.i. 191;
14 Kas. 281.
SEC. 125. In an action for libel or slander, it shall be
gy^jgigj^ £o state, generally, that the defamatory matter was published
or spoken of the plaintifff; and if the allegation be denied, the plaintifff
must prove, on the trial, the facts, showing that the defamatory matter
was published or spoken of him.
SEC. ion,
the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged as defamatory,
and may prove the same, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce
the amount of damages, or he may prove either.
SEC. 127. In any action for the recovery of real prop
erj.y^ jj. siiau be described with such convenient certainty as will enable
an officer holding an execution to identify it..
SEC. 128- Every material allegation of the petition,
not controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new
matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter
in the reply shall be deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as
uPon direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. A demurrer
to a reply shall not be held to admit any of the facts alleged in such
reply for any purpose other than to determine the sufficiency thereof.
Allegations of value, or of amount of damages, shall not be considered
as true, by failure to controvert them; but this shall not apply to the
amount claimed in actions on contract, express or implied, for the recov
ery of money only.
SEC. I29- A material allegation, in a pleading, is one
essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient.
SEC. 130. Neither presumptions of law nor matters
of which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.
12 Kas. 807 ;
SEC. 131. When a tender of money is alleged in any
pleading, it shall not be necessary to deposit the money in court when
the pleading is filed, but it shall be sufficient if the money is deposited
in court at the trial, or when ordered by the court.
SEC. 132. If an original pleading be lost, or withheld
jjy any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted.
MISTAKES IK PLEADING AND AMENDMENTS.
SEC. 133. No variance between the allegations, in a
pleading, and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually
misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or
aefense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been
so misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and
& must also be shown in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms
as may be just.
v. Paulctt, 1 Kas. 418. Not error to enter Judgment Immediately, upon, Nat.
G lias 45(>. Unjust advantages not favored, foreman v. Carter, u Kas. ti~4. Dis
court, Taylor v. Glciideimtng. 4 Kas. B>4; Davis v. Wll-on, 11 Kas 74; Moore v.
Clark v. Spencer, 14 Kas. 398; Kas. P. U'y Co. v. Salmon, 14 Kas. 526. Name of
McLaln, 7 Kan. liB; Kas. P. H'y Co. v. Nichols, 9 Kas. 2J3. Notice must be given,
6 Kas. I"-;. Should be allowed at any time. Butcher v. Bank, i Kas. 70; Foote v.
155. Variance, K'y Co. v. Caldwcll, 8 Kas. -J44. Not error to refuse, llialt v.
170; Foot v. Sprague, 13 Kas. 155. How made. Fltzpatiick v. Gebhart, 7 Kas. 35.
return. Dntton v. Hobson, 7 Kas. l!Mi; Kirkwood v. Reedy, 10 Kas. 453. Chang
Newell v. Newell, 14 Kas. •-'>•:. Of appeal bond, Gates v banders, 13 Kas. 411
SEC. 134. When the variance is not material, as provided
JQ tfle ^j. SectioUi the court may direct the f^j. to b(J folmd, aCCOrding to the evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without
cost.
12 Kas. 44!) : Balrd T. Trnltt. 13 Eos 121
SEC. 135. When, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some
particular or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning, it is
not to be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
SEC. 136. The plaintifff may amend his petition without leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without prejudice to
the proceedings; but notice of such amendment shall be served upon
the defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same
time to answer or demur thereto as to the original petition.
1!«; Gulf R'y Co. v. Van Rip
SEC. 137. At any time within ten days after the
demurrer is filed the adverse party may amend, of course, on payment
of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice of the filing of an
amended pleading shall be forthwith served upon the other party or his
attorney, who shall have the same time thereafter to answer or reply
thereto, as to an original pleading.
SEC. 138. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party
who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied that he has
a meritorious claim or defense, and did not demur for delay.
SEC. 139. The court may, before or after judgment, in
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper, amend any
pleading, process or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of
any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case, or conform the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved, when
such amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense;
and when any proceeding fails to conform, in any respect, to the provisions
of this code, the court may permit the same to be made conformiiiiii j , *
able thereto by amendment.
857; . . ------,
r;n National Bank v.'Tappan, 6 Kas. 4ti9;'steven« v. Thompson, 5 Kas. 310.
SEC. 140. The court, in every stage of action, must
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does
not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Pcmbcrton T. Hoos
Bndd v. Kramer, 14 Kaa. 103: Andrews v. Alcorn, 13 Kns. 359; Kas. P. R'y Co. v.
626; Gulf R'y Co. v. Owen, $ Kas. 4i4; Dewey v. McLain, 7 Kas. 130; Uall v. Jenncs
Topekav. Tuttle, 5 Kas. 3i4; Scarborough v. Smith, Ib Ka». 401.
SEC. 141. If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse
party may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of amendment,
with or without costs, as the court, in its discretion, shall direct.
SEC. 142. When either party shall amend any pleading
'V. i ,, Lini i • p 1 i <Y« i •, , i . ee
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by atndavit or otherwise,
that the adverse party could not be ready for trial, in consequence
thereof, a continuance may be granted to some day in term, or to another
term of the court.
SEC. 143. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in any pleading
or proceeding, by any name or description; and when his true name is
discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly.
The plaintifff, in such case, must state in his petition that he could not
ascertain the true name; and the summons must contain the words,
" real name unknown," and a copy thereof must be served personally
npon the defendant.
SEC. 144. Either party may be allowed, on notice, and
on such terms, as to costs, as the court may prescribe, to file a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case,
occurring after the former petition, answer or reply.
SEC. 145. Whenever two or more actions are pending
in the same court, which might have been joined, the defendant may, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause why
*ne same shall not he consolidated, and if no cause be shown, the said
several actions shall he consolidated.
SEC. 146. The order for consolidation may be madety
the court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation.
ARTICLE 9.— PROVISIONAL REMEDIES — ARREST AND BAIL
SECTION.
147. Of arrest.
148. The affidavit, and causes for order of
arrest.
149. Order not to be issued until bond exe
cuted.
150. Order may accompany summons.
151. To be delivered to sheriff; its con
tents.
152. When returnable.
153. How executed; further orders.
154. Defendant to be committed.
155. May deposit money and be dis
charged.
156. Money, how disposed of.
157. Tire same.
158. Sheriff and sureties liable for such
money.
159. Bail, when may be given, and how.
160. Bail may be accepted or objected to;
proceeding in case of objection.
SECTION.
161. Justification of bail.
162. Bail to be examined on oath.
163. Proceeding when bail sufficient
164. Sheriff liable, when.
165. Liability, how fixed and enforced.
166. Bail adjudged insufficient, liable to
sheriff.
167. Liability of bail, how fixed and sned.
168. Surrender of defendant in discharge
of bail.
169. Bail may arrest defendant.
170. Bail exonerated, when.
171. Bail may be substituted for money
deposited.
172. Stay of proceedings against bail.
173. Application to vacate order of arrest,
or reduce amount of bail.
174. Plaintiff may oppose.
175. Jail fees, how paid.
SEC. 147. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested,
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by this code, and
not otherwise; but this provision does not apply to proceedings for con
tempt; nor does it apply to actions or judgments prosecuted in the name
of the state of Kansas to recover fines or penalties for crimes, misde
meanors or offenses.
SEC. 148. An order for the arrest of the defendant
shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his authorized
agent or attorney, stating the nature of the plaintifff's claim, that it is
just, and the amount thereof, as nearly as may be, and showing one or
more of the following particulars:
First. That the defendant has removed, or begun to remove, any of
his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to defraud
his creditors.
Second. That he has begun to convert his property, or a part thereof,
into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his credit
ors.
Third. That he has property, or rights of action, which he fraudu
lently conceals.
Fourth. That he has assigned, removed or disposed- of, or has begun to
dispose of, his property, or a part thereof, with intent to defraud his
creditors.
Fifth. That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the
obligation, for which suit is about to be or has been brought. The affi
davit shall also contain a statement of the facts claimed to justify the
belief in the existence of one or more of the above particulars.
SEC. 149. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed, by one or more sufficient sureties
of the plaintifff, a written undertaking to the effect that the plaintifff shall
pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the
arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the
amount of the plaintifff's claim stated in the affidavit.
SEC. 150. The order may be made to accompany the
summons, or at any time afterward, before the judgment.
SEC. 151. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff; the order shall
state the name of the parties, the court in which the action is brought,
and the amount of the plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit, an d^
shall require the sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in
double the sum stated in the affidavit, and to make return of the order
on a day to be named therein, with the undertaking of the bail, if any
be given.
SEC. 152. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the
summons; when issued afterward, it shall be fifteen days after it is
issued.
SEC. 153. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting
the defendant, and delivering to him a copy of the order, and of the
affidavit. If the defendant cannot be found before the return day, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to further orders, without another affidavit or
undertaking until the defendant is arrested; but orders of arrest shall
not be issued to any other than the county in which the action is
brought.
SEC. 154. The defendant, when arrested, shall be committed
by the sheriff to the jail of the county, and kept in custody
until discharged by law.
SEC. 155. The defendant may, before or after giving
bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the amount of
money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon he shall be dis
charged, or his bail, if any be given, shall be released.
SEC. 156. The sheriff shall pay into court the money
x . ,' 1° i . . T i> i -i -rf • i • r J ,- i i 11 -i
received by him in lieu 01 bail. It received in vacation, he shall pay it
in on the first day of the next term; if received during a term, he shall
pay it in immediately.
SEC. 157. The court shall make proper orders for the
safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct the sheriff
to keep the money, and, after final judgment in the action, shall order it
to be paid to the party entitled thereto, according to the result.
SEC. 158. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu
of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be held upon
his official responsibility ; and he and his sureties shall be liable, and may
be proceeded against for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases
of delinquency.
SEC. 159. Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterward, before judgment. It shall be done by
causing one or more sufficient sureties to execute a written undertaking
to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, to the effect that, if -°"J~
ment shall be rendered in the action against the defendant, he will render
himself amenable to the process of the court thereon. The undertak
ing, when accepted, shall be returned to the clerk's office, and the defend
ant discharged.
SEC. 160. The plaintifff or his attorney may accept the
bail by indorsing such acceptance on the undertaking; or may object to
the bail, for insufficiency, at any time within five days after the under
taking has been given. Within such time, he shall serve upon the sheriff
a written notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed
to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability.
When the undertaking is given after return of arrest, the plaintifff shall
have notice thereof.
SEC. 161. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or
defendant may, within two days thereafter, give, to the plaintifff or his
attorney, notice, in writing, of the justification of the same or other
bail, before a judge or clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
a probate judge or justice of the peace, at a specified time and place; the
j>time to be not less than five nor more than ten days thereafter. In ease
other bail be given, there must be a new undertaking.
SEC. 162' For tlie PurPose of justification, eachof the
bail must attend before the proper officer, at the time and place mentioned,
and may be examined on oath or affirmation touching his sufficiency, in
such manner as the officer may think proper.
SEC. 163. If the officer find the bail sufficient, he shall
indorse his allowance on the undertaking, and cause the same to be filed
with the clerk, and the sheriff shall thereupon be discharged from lia
bility,
SEC. 164. After being arrested, if the defendant escapes
or be rescued, or bail be not taken, or be adjudged insufficient, or a
deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail. But he may
discharge himself from liability by putting in sufficient bail at any
time before judgment.
SEC. 165. The return of " Not found," upon an execuagainst the body of the defendant, shall be necessary to fix the
liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability shall be the amount of the
judgment, interest and costs. This liability shall be enforced only in a
separate action against him, or against him and his sureties on his official
bond, as in other cases of delinquency.
SEC. 166. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall be liable
to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of such insuffi
ciency.
SEC. 167. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in
the manner provided in section one hundred and sixty-five, for fixing
the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can be proceeded against
in an action only.
SEC. 168. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff
of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of a certified
copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such surrender be made by
the defendant himself, or by his bail, shall discharge the bail. Such sur
render may be made at any time before the return day of the summons
in an action against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the bail a written
acknowledgment of the surrender, and hold the defendant in his cus
tody, upon said copy of the undertaking of the bail, as upon an order
of arrest. On the production of the sheriff's acknowledgment of the
surrender, to the clerk of the court, an exoneration of the bail shall be
entered on his undertaking.
SEC. 169. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or place, before he is finally charged, may
himself arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and
discretion to do so.
SEC. 170. The bail will be exonerated by the death of
^e Defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal dis
charge from the obligation to surrender himself amenable to the process
of the court, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county in which
he was arrested in execution thereof, within the time fixed in section
one hundred and sixty-eight, or within such further time as the court,
in which the action is pending, may allow.
SEC. 171. If money be deposited by the defendant on
his discharge, bail may be given and justified, upon notice as prescribed
in section one hundred and sixty-one, at any time before judgment; and
thereupon the court in which the action is brought, on being satisfied
that the bail has been given and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the
money deposited be refunded to the defendant, and it must be refunded
accordingly.
SEC. 172. If, at any time before or after judgment
against the bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the judgment
against the principal, in the suit in which their undertaking was taken,
the court may, on motion, stay proceedings against such bail, for a reasonable time, on their paying all the costs that have accrued against
them; and if, on such proceedings, the judgment against the principal
shall be reversed, and the principal discharged from said suit, the bail
shall be discharged from the undertaking.
SEC. 173. A defendant may, at any time before judgment,
apply on motion to the court in which the suit is brought, if in
session, and in vacation to a judge thereof, to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of such motion
, i • , 11 i • ,-af
must be given to the plaintifff.
SEC. 174. If the motion be made upon affidavits on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the order of arrest was made.
SEC. 175. Any person causing another to be committed to jail, under the provisions of this article, shall be liable, in the
first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by the jailor, pay
such fees weekly, in advance; and such fees, so paid, shall be a part of
the costs of the case.
ARTICLE 10.— REPLEVIN OF PROPERTY.
SECTION.
176. Delivery of property may be claimed,
when.
177. Affidavit of plaintifff must show what.
178. Order not to be issued until under
taking executed by one or more
sureties.
179. Order for delivery directed to whom;
its contents.
180. Returnable, when.
181. How executed.
182. Defendant may have return of prop
erty, how; to be delivered to plaint
iff, -when.
SECTION.
183. Exception to sureties.
184. Proceedings in the action.
18o. Judgment
186. Order for delivery may be issued to
different counties.
187. Officer may break open buildings,
when.
188. Court or judge may compel delivery
by attachment.
189. When order may be set aside at cost
of clerk.
SEC. 176. The plaintifff, in an action to recover the
possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of
the suit, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such property, as provided in this chapter.
Kennedy v. Beck, 15 Kns. 555; Marii v. Frankc, 9 Kas. 132; McVcy v. Bnrnes, 14 K
T. Orns, 8 Kas. B9: Hacker v. Donovan. IS Has. 251; Wilson v. Fuller, 9 Kas. 177;
T. McConnell, 8 Kas. 273; Brown v. Hoi meg, 13 Kns. 482; Yandle v. Crane, 13 Kas
Arthni- v. Wallace, 8 Kne. 267; Russell v. Smith. 14 Kas. 36fi; McCarty v. ^uiinby,
dicts, Hall v. Jennets, 6 Kas. 850; Copelaud v. Major*, 9 Kas. 104; Ward v. Maalerso
Snmner v. Cook, 14 Kas. 16i.
SEC. 177. An order for the delivery of property to the
plaintifff shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is
brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney showing:
First. A description ot the property claimed.
Second. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or has a
special ownership or interest therein, stating the facts in relation thereto,
and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the property.
Third. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
Fourth. That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment
fcgainst said plaintifff, or for the payment of any tax, fine or amercement
assessed against him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this article, or any other mesne or final process, issued against said plaintiff; Or,
Fifth. If taken in execution, or on anv order or judgment against the
plaintifff, that it is exempt by law from being so taken.
Sixth. The actual value of the property. When several articles are
claimed, the value of each shall be stated as nearly as practicable.
T. Clauj
SEC. 178. The order shall not be issued by the clerk
until there has been executed in his office, by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk, an undertaking in
not less than double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit,
to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and pay
all costs and damages which may be awarded against him, and if the
property be delivered to him, that he will return the same to the defend
ant, if a return thereof be adjudged.
SEC. 179. The order for the delivery of the property
to the plaintifff shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff. It shall
state the names of the parties, the court in which the action is brought,
and command the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and deliver
it to the plaintifff, and to make return of the order on a day to be named
therein.
SEC. 18°- Tne return day of the order of delivery,
when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that
of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after
it is issued.
SEC. 181. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking
the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the
order to the person charged with the unlawful detainer of the property,
or leave such copy at his usual place of residence.
SEC. 182. If, within twenty-four hours after service of
the copy of the order, there is executed by one or more sufficient sureties
°^ J^6 Defendant, to be approved by the sheriff, an undertaking to the
plaintifff, in not less than double the amount of the value of the property
as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, to the effect that the defendant
will deliver the property to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged,
and will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded against him, the
sheriff shall return the property to the defendant. If such undertaking
be not given within twenty-four hours after service of the order, the
sheriff shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.
SEC. 183. The plaintifff may, within twenty-four hours
from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding section is
given by the defendant, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the
sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the plaintifff excepts, the sureties
must justify, upon notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff or other officer
shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection
to them is waived, as above provided, or until they justify.
SEC. 184. If the property has been delivered to the
plaintifff, and judgment rendered against him, on demurrer, or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court shall, on
appiicatjon Of the defendant or his attorney, proceed to inquire into the
right of property, and right of possession of the defendant to the prop
erty taken,
SEC. 185. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession,
or for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof in case a delivery
canno^ V6 na<^' an<^ °^ damages f°r ^ne detention. If the property has
been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the property, or the
value thereof iu case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking
and withholding the same.
V.Wallace, 8 Kan. >M7; Rucker v. Donovan, 13 Kas. 231: Wolfley v. Rising, U
v. McMillan, 18 Ka». 139.
SEC. 186. An order may be directed to any other
county than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery of
the property claimed. Sereral orders may issue at the same time, or
successively, at the option of the plaintifff; but only one of them shall
be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
(3714) § 187. SBC. 187. The sheriff or other officer, in the execution
of the order of delivery, may break open any building or enclosure in
which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed, but not
until he has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure
and the delivery of the property, after having demanded the same.
SEC. 188. In an action to recover the possession of
specific personal property, the court, or judge in vacation, may, for
good cause shown, before or after judgment, compel the delivery of the
property to the officer or party entitled thereto, by attachment, and may
examine either party as to the possession or control of the property.2
Such authority shall only be exercised in aid of the foregoing provisions
of this article.
SEC. 189. Any order for the delivery of property,
issued under this article, without the affidavit and undertaking required,
shall be set aside at the cost of the clerk issuing the same, and such
clerk, as well as the plaintifff, shall also be liable, in damages, to the
party injured.
ARTICLE 11.— ATTACHMENT.
SECTION.
190. Grounds upon which plaintifff may
have attachment.
191. Affidavit shall state, what.
192. Bond to be executed; not required,
when.
193. Order of attachment, to whom deliv
ered; its contents.
194. May issue to several counties.
196. Returnable, when.
EXECUTION AND RETURN THEREOF.
196. In what order executed when there
are several.
197. How executed.
198. The same.
199. The same; property lost, etc.
200. Proceedings against garnishee.
201. How served.
202. Written interrogatories to be served
on garnishee, when.
203. Attachments upon same property.
'201. How attached under subsequent or
ders.
205. Form of return.
206. From what time property and gar
nishee bound.
DISPOSITION OF ATTACHED PROPERTY.
207. Appointment of receiver; bond.
2L& To take possession of books of ac
counts, etc., and settle and collect
the same.
209. Shall give notice of appointment.
210. Report proceedings.
211. Sheriff to act as receiver, when.
212. Court may make what orders con
cerning property.
PROCEEDINGS UPON ATTACHMENT.
213. Attachment discharged, how.
214. How undertaking executed in vaca
tion.
SECTION.
215. Answer of garnishee.
215 a. Answer of corporation.
216. May pay money into court.
217. Neglect to answer, how punished.
218. Court may order deli very of property,
or payment, by garnishee.
219. When plaintifff may proceed against
garnishee.
220. Final judgment against garnishee.
221. Effect of judgment for defendant.
222. Proceedings after judgment for
plaintifff.
223. Court may compel delivery of at
tached property to sheriff.
224. May order sheriff to repossess him
self.
225. Question of priority may be referred,
when.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
226. Effect of death of defendant.
227. Additional security by plaintifff.
228. Motion to discharge attachment.
229. Plaintiff may oppose.
ATTACHMENT IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.
230. When action may be brought on
claim before due and attachment
issue, etc.
231. Who may grant attachment; affi
davit.
232. Action dismissed, if attachment re
fused.
233. Order to specify amount.
234. Bond to be executed before order
issues.
235. Judgment not given until claim is
due.
236. What proceedings to regulate at
tachments granted by court or
judge.
SEC. 190. The plaintifff in a civil action for the recovery
r ° i PL ii in c i LL i
of money may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an attach
ment against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein
stated: First. When the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a foreign
corporation, or a non-resident of this state (but no order of attachment
shall be issued on the ground or grounds in this clause stated, for any
claim other than a debt or demand arising upon contract, judgment or
decree, unless the cause of action arose wholly within the limits of this
state, which fact must be established on the trial).
Second. When the defendant, or one of several defendants, has abscon<kd with the intention to defraud his creditors; or,
Third. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a
summons; or,
Fourth. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon
!•„
nim; or,
Fifth- Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the
jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Sixth. Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money,
for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or,
Seventh. Has property or right in action, which he conceals; or,
Eighth. Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is about to dispose
,, n P , ,., i? -n ii • i i i i /• i i • i
of, his property, or a part thereof, with the intent to defraud, hinder or
J inv I.- iwnJ.fi.fv... nr
ae-"y ms creditors, or,
Ninth. Fraudulently contracted the debt, or fraudulently incurred the
liability or obligations for which suit is about to be or has been brought; or,
Tenth. Where the damages for which action is brought are for injuries arising from the commission of some felony or misdemeanor, or the
seduction of any female; or,
Eleventh. When the debtor has failed to pay the price or value of any article or thing delivered; which by contract he was bound to pay upon
delivery.
SEC. 191. An order of attachment shall be made by
the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any case mentioned in the preceding section, when there is filed in his office anaffidaplaintifff,
his agent or attorney, showing: First, The nature
of the plaintifff's claim. Second, That it is just. Third, The amount
which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought to recover; and, Fourth,
The existence of some one of the grounds for an attachment enumer, -, . ,, ,. . •'
ated in the preceding section.
v. Burton, 5 Eaa. 21)1; defective and Informal, Robinson T. Barton, 5 Has. 293;
7 Kus. 3S9; Robinson v. Wilson, 15 Kas. 595.
SEC. 192. The order of attachment shall not be isgue(j
^ ^^ clerk until an undertaking on the part of the plaintifff has
°een executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the clerk,
and filed in [his] office, in a sum not exceeding double the amount of the
plaintifff's claim, to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
the order be wrongfully obtained; but no undertaking shall be required
where the party or parties defendant are all non-residents of the state, or
a foreign corporation.
Kas. 60S; Tayne v. Bank, 16 Kas. 151.
SEC. 193. The order of attachment shall be directed
and delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, stocks, rights, credits, monies and effects of
the defendant in his county, not exempt by law from being applied to
*^e Pav.ment °f the plaintifff's claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy
the plaintifff's claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and
fcjjg probable costs of the action, not exceeding fifty dollars.
SEC. 194. Orders of attachment may be issued to
the sheriffs of different counties, and several of them may, at the
option of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time, or in succession; but
only such as have been executed shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwiss
directed by the court.
SEC. 195. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as
that of the summons. When issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days
after it issued.
EXECUTION AND RETURN THEREOF.
SEC. 196. Where there are several orders of attachrnent
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the order in
which they were received by the sheriff.
SEC. 197. The order of attachment shall be executed
by the sheriff, without delay. He shall go to the place where the defend
ant's property may be found, and declare that, by virtue of said order,
he attaches said property at the suit of the plaintifff; and the officer, with
two householders, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer,
shall make atrue_ inventory and appraisement of all the property attached,
which shall be signed by the officer and householders, and returned with
the order.
SEC. 193. When the property attached is real property,
the officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no occu
pant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order. Where it is
personal property, and he can get possession, he shall take the same
into his custody, and hold it subject to the order of the court.
SEC. 199. The sheriff shall deliver the property
i i i n • i • M f ^ ii
attached to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution,
by such person, in the presence of the sheriff, of an undertaking
to the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, resident in the
county, to the effect that the parties to the same are bound, in double
the appraised value thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in
money, shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of said property
has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof
shall be remitted to the person so bound.
SEC. 200. When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
shall make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to, and does, believe
that any person or corporation, to be named, has property of the defendant (describing the same) in his possession, or is indebted to him, he
shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with
a written notice that he appear and answer, as provided herein.
SEC. 201. The copy of the order and notice shall be
served upon the garnishee, as follows: If he be a person, they shall be
served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence; if a
corporation, they shall be left with the president or other head of the
same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof.
SEC. 202. If the garnishee do not reside in the county
in whicn the action is brought, the plaintifff shall prepare written inter
rogatories, to be answered by the garnishee, a copy of which shall be
served in the same manner as the order and notice.
SEC. 203. Different attachments of the same property
may be made by the same officer, and one inventory and appraisement
shall be sufficient ; and it shall not be necessary to return the same with
more than one order.
SEC. 204. Where property is under attachment, it
shall be attached under subsequent orders, as follows:
First. If it be real property, it shall be attached in the manner pre
scribed in section one hundred and ninety-eight.
Second. If it be personal property, it shall be attached as in the hands
of the officer, and subject to any previous attachment.
Third. If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a copy
of the order and notice shall be left with him in the manner prescribed
in section two hundred and one.
SEC. 205. The officer shall return, upon every order of
attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show the
property attached, and the time it was attached; when garnishees are
served, their names, and the time each was served, must be stated. The
Ojjjcer shall also return with the order all undertakings given under it.
SEC. 206. An order of attachment binds the property
Cached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand liable to
the plaintifff in attachment for all property, monies and credits in his
hands, or due from him to the defendant, from the time he is served with
the written notice mentioned in section two hundred and one; but
where property is attached in the hands of a bailee, his lien thereon
shall not be affected by the attachment.
DISPOSITION OF ATTACHED PROPERTY.
SEC. 207. The court, or any judge thereof, daring
vacation, may, on application of the plaintifff, and on good cause shown,
appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his
duty, and shall give an undertaking to the state of Kansas, in such sum
as the court or judge may direct, and with such security as shall be
approved by the clerk of such court, for the faithful performance of his
duty as such receiver, and to pay over all money and account for all
property which may come into his hands by virtue of his apppointment,
at such times and in such manner as the court may direct.
SEC. 208. Such receiver shall take possession of all
notes, due bills, books of account, accounts and all other evidences of
debt that have been taken, by the sheriff or other officer, as the property
of the defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to settle and collect
the same. For that purpose, he may commence and maintain actions in
his own name as such receiver; but in such actions, no right of defense
shall be impaired or affected.
SEC. 209- Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of
his appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in attachment.
The notice shall be written or printed, and shall be served on the debtor
or debtors, by copy personally, or by copy left at the residence of the
debtor or debtors; and from the date of such service, the debtors shall
stand liable to the plaintifff in attachment for the amount of monies or
credits in their hands, or due from them to the defendant in attachment,
and shall account therefore to the receiver.
SEC. 210. Such receiver shall, when required, report
njg proceedings to the court, and hold all monies collected by him, and
the property which may come into his hands, subject to the order of the
court.
SEC. 211. Where a receiver is not appointed by the
court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and seven, the
sheriff or other officer attaching the property, shall have all the powers
and perform all the duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge,
and may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name
as such officer. He may be required to give security other than his official
undertaking.
SEC. 212. The court shall make proper orders for the
preservation of the property during the pendency of the suit; it may
Direct a sale of property, when, because of its perishable nature, or of
the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the benefit of the parties. In
vacation, such sale may be ordered by the judge of the court. The sale
shall be public, after such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of
like property on execution, and shall be made in such manner and upon
such terms of credit, with security, as the court or judge, having regard
to the probable duration of the action, may direct. The proceeds, if col
lected by the sheriff, with all the money received by him from garnishees,
shall be held and paid over by him, under the same requirement and
responsibility of himself and sureties, as are provided in respect t«
money deposited in lieu of bail.
SEC. 213. If the defendant, or other person on his
behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed to the plaintifff, by one or more sureties, resident in the county, to
be approved by the court, in double the amount of the plaintifff's claim,
as stated in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform
the judgment of the court, the attachment in such action shall be dis-T
charged, and restitution made of any property taken under it or the
proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall, also, discharge the liability
of a garnishee in such action, for any property of the defendant in his
hands.
SEC. ion
may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff having the
order of attachment in his hands, or after the return of the order, before
the clerk, with the same effect as if executed in court, the sureties in
either case to be approved by the officer before whom the undertaking
is executed.
SEC. 215. The garnishee shall answer as follows: If
the order of attachment be returned during a term of the court, and ten
days before the close thereof, he shall answer at that term, on a day to
be named in the notice, not less than ten days from the date of service.
If the order be returned during vacation, he shall answer on the first day
of the next term after its return. If the garnishee reside out of the
county in which the action is brought, he shall file written answers to
the interrogatories served upon him within the time hereinbefore pro
vided, which answer shall be sworn to, subscribed and certified in the
same manner as an affidavit. If he reside in the county in which the
action is brought, he shall appear in court and be examined. A gar
nishee shall answer, under oath, all questions or interrogatories put to mm
touching the property, of every description, of the defendant, in his pos
session or under his control, and shall disclose truly the amount owing
by him to the defendant, at or after the service of notice, whether due
or not; and in case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for
the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of notice.
SEC. 6. When any corporation shall be notified to
appear and answer as garnishee of any defendant, pursuant to sections
200, 201 and 202 of said chapter 80, the answer, required to be made by
such garnishee by section 215 of said chapter, shall not be required in
any case in less than fifteen days from the service of the order and notice,
and interrogatories, if any; and when neither the president or other
head of such corporation, nor the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof, shall reside or live, or keep his office or place of business in the
county where the action is pending, the answer of such garnishee shall
not be required in less than thirty days from the service of the order and
notice, and interrogatories, if any.
SEC. 216. A garnishee may pay the money owing to
the defendant by him to the sheriff having the order of attachment, or
into court. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for
any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be
subject to costs, beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim
against him; and if he disclose the property in his hands, or the true
amount owing by him, and deliver and pay the same, according to the
order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.
SEC. 217. If the garnishee do not answer, as required
by section two hundred and fifteen, the court may proceed against him
by attachment, as for a contempt.
SEC. 218. If the garnishee answer, and it is discovered,
on his examination, that, at or after the service of the order of attachfflent
and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property of the
defendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order the delivery of
such property and the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee,
into the court; or the court may permit the garnishee to retain the
property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to
the plaintifff, by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the
amount shall be paid or the property forthcoming, as the court may
direct.
(3747) § 2 1 9- SE°- 21?- ^ tne garnishee fail to answer, or if he
answer and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintifff, or if he fail
to comply with the order of the court to deliver the property and pay
the money owing into court, or give the undertaking required in the
preceding section, the plaintifff may proceed against him in an action, by
filing a petition, in his own name, as in other cases, and causing a sum
mons to be issued upon it; and thereupon such proceedings may be had
as in other actions, and judgment may be rendered in favor of the plaint
iff, for the amount of property, and credits of every kind, of the defend
ant, in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear to be
owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceedings
against the garnishee. If the plaintifff proceed against the garnishee by
action, for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it
appear in the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintifff
shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this action may be
enforced as judgments in other cases. When the claims of plaintifffs in
attachment are satisfied, the defendant in attachment may, on motion,
be substituted as the plaintifff in this judgment.
($748) § 220. SEC. 220. Final judgment shall not be rendered against
,-, v • i i -i n i« ' j n T p i i > 11 i , i
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachment has
been determined; and if, in such action, judgment be rendered for the
defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover
costs. If the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in attachment,
and the garnishee shall deliver up all the property, monies and credits
of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the monies from him due,
as the court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs
of the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the property and
monies so surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper; and
on final judgment against the garnishee, execution may be issued as in
other cases.
SEC. 221. If judgment be rendered in the action for
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.
SEC. 222. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff,
it shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining in the
hands of the officer, after applying the monies arising from the sale of
perishable property, and so much of the personal property and lands
and tenements, if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may
be necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the court,
under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same had been levied
on by execution; and the money arising therefrom,with the amount which
may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judg
ment and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the judg
ment shall stand, and execution may issue thereon for the residue, in
all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached property or
its proceeds shall be returned to the defendant.
SEC. 223. The court may compel the delivery to the
sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which an undertakjng
mav }jave been given, and may proceed summarily, on such under
taking, to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of such
sum as may be due upon the undertaking, by rules and attachments, as
in cases of contempt.
SEC. 224. The court may order the sheriff to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property,
which may have passed out of his hands, without having been sold or
converted into money; and the sheriff shall, under such order, have the
same power to take the property as he would have under an order of
attachment.
SEC. 225. Where several attachments are executed
upon the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,
court, on motion of any of the plaintifffs, may order a reference, to ascer
tain and report the amounts and priorities of the several attachments,
or may determine any such amount and priorities without such reference.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SEC. 226. From the time of the issuing of the order
of attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction,
and to have control of all subsequent proceedings under the attachment;
and if, after the issuing of the order, the defendant being a person, should
die, or a corporation, and its charter should expire by limitation, forfeit
ure or otherwise, the proceedings shall be carried on; but in all such
cases, other than where the defendant was a foreign corporation, his
legal representatives shall be made parties to the action.
SEC. 227. The defendant may, at any time before judgment,
after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the
court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's undertaking has
removed from this state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it
may vacate the order of attachment and direct restitution of any
property taken under it, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the
court, sufficient security be given by the plaintifff.
SEC. 228. The defendant may, at any time before
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move to discharge an
attachment, as to the whole or a part of the property attached.
Lovell, 7 Kas. 419; Urqnehart v. Smith, 5 itas. 447; Johnson v Laughl
SEC. 229. If the motion be made upon affidavits, on
the part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but not
otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evi
dence, in addition to that on which the order of attachment was made.
ATTACHMENTS IN CERTAIN ACTIONS.
SEC. 230. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed or otherwise
disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or
defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection of
their debts, or is about to make such sale or conveyance or disposition of
his property, with such fraudulent intent, or is about to remove his
property, or a material part thereof, with the intent or to the effect of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering or delaying them
in the collection of their debts, a creditor may bring an action on his
claim before it is due, and have an attachment against the property of
the debtor.
SEC. ion
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by
a judge thereof; but before such an action shall be brought, or such at
tachment shall be granted, the plaintifff, or his agent or attorney, shall
make an oath, in writing, showing the nature and amount of the plaint
iffs claim, that it is just, when the same will become due, and the exist
ence of some one of the grounds for an attachment enumerated in the
preceding section.
SEC. 232. If the court or judge refuse to grant an
order of attachment, th_e action shall be dismissed, but without prejudice
to a future action; and in all such actions, application for an attachment
must be made.
SEC. 233. The order of the court or judge granting
the attachment shall specify the amount for which it is Slowed, not
exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, and the probable
costs of the action.
SEC. 234. The order of attachment, as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there has been
executed, in his office, an undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, as in
case of any ordinary attachment.
SEC. 235. The plaintifff in such action shall not have
judgment on his claim before it is due, but the proceedings on the
attachment may be conducted without delay.
SEC. 236. The proceedings applicable to attachments
x , ,' °,, t i * -i- i n i i n 11 i
issued by the clerk in ordinary cases, shall regulate the attachment
granted by the court or judge, as far as applicable.
ARTICLE 12. — INJUNCTION.
SECTIOJT.
237. Injunction, what is and when al
lowed.
238. May be granted, for what causes.
239. When and by whom.
240. Notice of time of hearing to be given.
241. Party may be restrained until appli
cation decided.
24"?. Bond to be executed.
243. Contents of order, and its service.
244. The same.
245. Injunction operates, when.
246. Application for, not to be granted by
judge or court of inferior jurisdic
tion, when.
SECTION.
247. How enforced; disobedience, how
punished.
248. Party enjoined may move for addi
tional security.
249. Affidavits may be read.
250. Motion to vacate or modify injunc
tion.
251. Plaintiff may oppose by affidavits.
232. Defendant may obtain injunction
upon an answer.
253. Injunction may be granted to enjoin
illegal levy of tax, charge, etc.
SEC. 237. The injunction provided by this code is a
command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final judgment
in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional remedy, and, when so
allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of injunction is abolished.
Dassler's Dig. p. 99; Henderson v. Marcel], 1 Kas. 137: Adams V. Beach,
Walker v. Armstrong, S Kas. 1U8; State v. Anderson, 5 Kas. 90.
SEC. 238. When it appears, by the petition, that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some
act, the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation,
would produce injury to the plaintifff; or when, during the litigation, it
aPPear? that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintifff's
rights respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the
judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain
such act. And when, during the pendency of an action, it shall appear,
^ affidavit, that the defendant threatens or is about to remove or dispose of his property with intent to defraud his creditors, or to render
the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such removal or disposition. It may, also, tbe granted in any
case where it is specially authorized by statute.
v. Patrie, 15 Kas. 287; Spencer v. School District, 15 Kas. 259; Scott v.
162: Cartrlght v. Smith, 15 Kas. 2*1. Temporary. Wood v. Millspaugh, 15 Kas. 14;
14 Kas. 18; Aikin v. Davis, 14 Kas. 143; Conleyv. Fleming, 14 Kas. 881 ;
14 Kaa. 463; Gulf K'y Co. v. Clemmaus, 14 Kas. 82; Tutt v. Ferguson, 13 Kas.
18 Kas. 41; Gulf £'y Co. v. Miami Co. 12 Kas. 432; Elder v. Bank of
238.
SEC. 239. The injunction may be granted at the time
Q.p commencing the action, or any time afterwards, before judgment, by
•the district court, or the judge thereof, or, in his absence from the
county, by the probate judge, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the
court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or his agent, that the
, . ,.~ f 6,.J, jr., , r 6 '
plaintirr is entitled thereto.
9 Kas. 359; Atchisou v Bartholow, 4 Kas. 134; Center Tp. v. Hunt, 18
SEC. 210. If the court or judge deem it proper that
the defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before granting
the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to be given to such
party to attend for such purpose, at a specified time and place, and may,
in the meantime, restrain such party.
SEC. 241. An injunction shall not be granted against
a party who has answered, unless upon notice; but such party may be
restrained until the decision of the application for an injunction.
SEC. 242. No injunction, unless otherwise provided by
special statute, shall operate, until the party obtaining the same shall
give an undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient securities, to be
approved by the clerk of the court granting such injunction, in an
amount to be fixed by the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to
the party injured the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunction ought not to have been granted.
SEC. 243. The order of injunction shall be addressed
to the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be issued by
the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at the commencement of
the action, the clerk shall indorse upon the summons "Injunction
allowed," and it shall not be necessary to issue the order of injunction,
nor shall it be necessary to issue the same where notice of the applica
tion therefore has been given to the party enjoined. The service of the
summons so indorsed, or the notice of an application for an injunction,
shall be notice of its allowance.
SEC. 244. Where the injunction is allowed during the
litigation, and without notice of the application therefore, the order of
injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff shall forthwith serve the same
upon each party enjoined, in the manner prescribed for serving a sum
mons. and make return thereof without delay.
SEC. 245. An injunction binds the party from the time
he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the applicant
therefore is executed.
SEC. 246. No injunction shall be granted by a judge,
after a motion therefore has been overruled on the merits of the application,
by his court; and where it has been refused by the court in which
the action is brought, or a judge thereof, it shall not be granted to the
same applicant, by a court of inferior jurisdiction, or any judge thereof.
SEC. 247. An injunction granted by a judge may be
enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of any injunction may
be punished as a contempt, by the court or any judge who might have
granted it in vacation. An attachment may be issued by the court ori
judge, upon being satisfied, by affidavit, of the breach of the injunction.
against the party guilty of the same, and he may be required, in the
discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine not exceeding two hun
dred dollars, for the use of the county, to make immediate restitution to
the party injured, and give further security to obey the injunction; or,
in default thereof, he may be committed to close custody, until he shall
fully comply with such requirements, or be otherwise legally discharged.
SEC. 248. A party enjoined may, at anytime before
judgtnent, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained the
injunction, move the court for additional security; and if it appear that
the surety in the undertaking has removed from the state, or is insufficient^the
court may vacate the injunction, unless, in a reasonable time,
sufficient security is given.
SEC. 249. On the hearing of an application for an
injunction, each party may read affidavits. All affidavits shall be filed.
SEC. 250. If the injunction be granted without
notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
notice, to the court in which the action is brought, or any judge thereof,
to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the
petition and affidavits upon which the injunction is granted, or upon
affidavits on the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer.
The order of the judge, allowing, dissolving or modifying an injunction,
gj^u ke rejurjie4 to fcue office of the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and recorded and obeyed, as if made by the court.
(3779) § 251. SEO. 251. If application be made upon affidavits, on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the injunction was granted.
SEC. 252. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon
an answer, in the nature of a counterclaim. He shall proceed in. the
manner hereinbefore prescribed.
SEC. 253- An injunction may be granted to enjoin the
illegal levy of any tax charge or assessment, or the collection of any
illegal tax charge or assessment, or any proceeding to enforce the same;
and any number of persons whose property is affected by a taxorassess296; Gulf B'y Co. v. Morris, ? Kas. 210; Kas P. R'y Co. v. Russell, 8 Has. 558:
9 Kas. 155. Equity, Lawrence v Killain, 11 Kas. 499; Stebbtnn v. Challiss, 15
Judgment, Johnson v. Ogg, 13 Kas. 206.
ARTICLE 13.— RECEIVERS AND OTHER PROVISIONAL REMEDIES.
SECTION.
254. Appointment of receiver.
255. Who shall not be appointed.
256. Oath and undertaking.
257. Powers of receiver.
258. Investment of funds.
SECTION.
259. Disposition of property in the hands
of trustee.
260. Disobedience of order of court under
this article, how punished.
SEC. 254. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, or in the absence of said
Ju<Jges fr°m the county, by the probate judge:
First. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim,
or between partners or others jointlj' owing or interested in any property
or fund, on the application of the plaintifff, or of any party whose right
to or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is proba
ble, and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of
being lost, removed or materially injured.
Second. In an action by the mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mort
gage and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mort
gaged property is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured,
or that the condition of the mortgage has not been performed, and that
the property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
Third. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
Fourth. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in pro
ceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been returned
unsatisfied, or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property
in satisfaction of the judgment.
Fifth. In the cases provided in this code, and by special statutes, when
a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger
of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
Sixth. In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been appointed
by the usages of the courts of equity.
SEC. 255. No party, or attorney, or person interested
in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
SEC. 256. Before entering upon his duties, the receivei
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sure
ties, approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such
person, and in such sum as the court or judge shall direct, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
obey the orders of the court therein.
SEC. 257. The receiver has, under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as receiver;
to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect
debts, to compound for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and
generally to do such acts respecting the property as the court may^
authorize.
SEC. 258. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be
invested upon interest, by order of the court; but no such order shall be
made, except upon the consent of all the parties to the action.
SEC. 259. AVhen it is admitted, by the pleading or
examination of a party, that he has in his possession or under his control
any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the sub
ject of litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the same to be
deposited in court or delivered to such party, with or without security,
subject to the further direction of the court.
SEC. 260. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority,
a court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the dis
obedience as for a contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
take the money, or thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with
the direction of the court.
SECTION.
261. Kinds of issue.
262. Issue of law.
ARTICLE 14. — ISSUES.
SECTION.
263. Issue of fact.
264. Issues of law and fact.
SEC. 261. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party, and controverted by the
other. They are of two kinds: First, Of law. Second, Of fad.
See Douglas v. Binehardt, 5 Kas. 393; U. P. H'y Co. v. McCarty, 8 Kan. 155; Washi
v. Uaney. 10 Kas. M5; Gulf It'y Co. v. Wilson, 1U Kas. 105; Brookover v. Esterly, li
nell v. Clark, 12 Kas. 1M.
SEC. 262. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.
SEC. 263. An issue of fact arises: First, Upon a
material allegation in the petition, controverted by the answer; or,
Second, Upon new matter in the answer, controverted by the reply; or,
Third-, Upon new matter in the reply, which shall be considered as con
troverted by the defendant without further pleading.
SEC. 264. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon
different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases thea
issues of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
McCulIoch v. Dodg
SEC. 265. A trial is a judicial examination of the is
sues, whether of law or fact, in an action.
SEC. 266. Issues of law must be tried by the court,
unless referred. Issues of fact arising in actions for the recovery of
money, or of specific real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference "be ordered, as hereinafter
provided.
Co. v. Homer, 5 Kss. 848; McCardell v. McNay, 17 Kas. 435.
SEC. 267. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the
court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a
jury, or referred as provided in this code.
Donegan, 15 Kas. 497; State ex rtl, v. Allen, 5 Kas. 223; Hairgrove v. Milling(3796)
§ 268. SEC. 268. A separate trial between the plaintifff and
any or all of several defendants, may be allowed by the court, whenever
justice will be thereby promoted.
SEC. 269. The general mode of summoning the jury is
such as is or may be provided by law.
Ktmball v. ConDer, 3 Kas. 415; The State v. Allen, 5 Kas. 213: Gillesple v. Lov
Clemcnson v. Chandler, 4 Kan. MS; Cavanaugh v. Fuller, 9 Kas. 231; Martnska v. T
153; Gaylord v. Stebblns, 4 Kas. 44; Douglas v. Binehardt, 5 Kas. '.',\i:. Manner of su
see chapter 54.
SEC. 270. If there shall be empaneled, for the trial of
any cause, any petit juror, who shall have been convicted of any crime
which by law renders him disqualified to serve on a jury; or who has
been arbitrator on either side, relating to the same controversy; or
who has an interest in the cause; or who has an action pending between
him and either party; or who has formerly been a juror in the same
cause; or who is the employer, employee, counselor, agent, steward or
attorney of either party; or who is subpoenaed as a witness; or who is
of kin to either party; or any person who shall have served once already
on a jury, as a talesman on the trial of any cause, in the same court during the term, he may be challenged for such causes; in either of which
cases the same shall be considered a principal challenge, and the validity
thereof be tried by the court; and any petit juror who shall be returned
upon the trial of any of the causes hereinbefore specified, against whom4rl;
no principal cause of challenge can be alleged, may, nevertheless, be J
challenged on, suspicion of prejudice against, or partiality for, either
party, or for want of competent knowledge of the English language, or
any other cause that may render him, at the time, an unsuitable juror;
and the validity of such challenge shall be determined by the court.
Kas."538; Madnska v. Thomas, 6 Kas. 153; The State v. Dickson, 6 Kaa. 20!); Graha
6 Kas. 230: Mo. R'y Co. v. Richards. 8 Kas. 101; Hairgrove v. Millington, 8 Kas.
v. Home, li Kas. 1:' ";; The State v. Medlicott, 9 Kas. -/,'. See, also, note to article 11,
SEC. 271. The plaintifff first, and afterward the defendant,
shall complete his challenges for cause. They may then, in turn, in
the same order, have the right to challenge one juror each, until each
shall have peremptorily challenged three jurors, but no more.
SEC. 272. After each challenge, the vacancy shall be
filled before further challenges are made; and any new juror thus intro
duced may be challenged for cause as well as peremptorily.
SEC. 273. When the requisite number of jurors cannot
otherwise be obtained, the sheriff shall select talesmen to supply the deficiency
from the bystanders, or the body, of the county, as the court may
direct.
SEC. 274. The jury shall be sworn to well and truly
try the matters submitted to them in the case in hearing, and a true
verdict give, according to the law and the evidence.
SEC. 275. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
shall proceed in. the following order, unless the court for special reasons,
otherwise direct. First, The party on whom rests the burthen of the
issues, may briefly state his case and the evidence by which he expects
to sustain it. Second, The adverse party may then briefly state hisi
defense, and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it. Third,
The party on whom rests the burthen of the issues, must first produce
his evidence; after he has closed his evidence, the adverse party may
interpose and file a demurrer thereto, upon the ground that no cause
of action or defense is proved. If the court shall sustain the demurrer,
such judgment shall be rendered for the party demurring, as the state of
the pleadings, or the proof, shall demand; if the demurrer be overruled,
the adverse party will then produce his evidence. Fourth, The parties
will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court, for good
reason, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer evidence in their
original case. Fifth, When the evidence is concluded, and either party
desires special instructions to be given to the jury, such instructions
shall be reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the party, or his
attorney, asking the same, and delivered to the court. Sixth, When the
•
argument of the case is concluded, the court shall give general instructions to the jury, which shall be in writing, and be numbered and signed
by the judge, if required by either party. Seventh^ When either party
^ks special instructions to be given to the jury, the court shall either
£*ve sucn inductions as requested, or positively refuse to do so; or give
the instructions with a modification, in such manner that it shall dis
tinctly appear what instructions were given, in whole or part, and in
like manner those refused, so that either party may except to the
instructions, as asked for, or as modified, or to the modification; all
instructions given by the court must be signed by the judge, and filed
together with those asked for by the parties, as a part of the record.
SEC. 276. A party excepting to the giving of instructions,
or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to nle a formal bill of
exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to write at the close of each instruction,
" Refused and excepted to," or, " Given and excepted to," which
shall be signed by the judge.
SEC. 277. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject
of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may
order them to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an officer, to
the place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by
the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person,
other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject
connected with the trial.
SEC. 278. When the case is finally submitted to the
jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire.
they must be kept together, in some convenient place, under charge of
an officer, until they agree upon a verdict or be discharged by the court,
subject to the discretion of the court to permit them to separate tempo
rar*ly a* night, and a* ^eir meals. The officer having them under his
charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or make
any himself, except to ask them if they are agreed upon their verdict,
unless by order of the court; and he shall not, before their verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or
the verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 279. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be
admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with, or
suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other person, on any subject of
the trial, and that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion
thereon, until the case is finally submitted to them.
SEC. 280. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony,
or if they desire to be informed as to any part of the law arising in the
case, they may request the officer to conduct them to the court, where
^ informa|;iOI1 on the point of law shall be given in writing, and the
court may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point in dis
pute, in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or their counsel.
SEC. 281. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of fag sickness of a juror, or other action or calamity requiring
their discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have been
kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability
of their agreeing.
SEC. 282. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tned
again immediately, or at a future time, as the court may direct.
SEC. 283. When the jury have agreed upon their vermust
^e conducted into court, their names called by the clerk,
and the verdict rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is
announced, either party may require the jury to be polled, which is done
by the clerk or the court asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any
one answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out, for further
deliberation.
SEC. 284. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether
it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent put
again; but if no disagreement be expressed, and neither party requires
the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged
from the case. If, however, the verdict be defective in form only, the
same may, with the assent of the jury, before they are discharged, be
corrected by the court.
VERDICT.
SEC. 285. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally d
upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant.
A special verdict is that by which the jury finds facts only. Itp
must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence
to prove them; and they must be so presented as that nothinggat
remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.
SEC. 7. In all cases the jury shall render a d
general verdict, and the court shall in any case at the request of the
parties thereto, or either of them, in addition to the general verdict, ^
direct the jury to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in A
writing by the party or parties requesting the same.
brick, 16 Kas. WO; K. P. H'y Co. v. Pointer, 14 Kas. 84. The original section 286
published in the general statutes was amended in 1870, L. 1870, ch. 87, § 1. Both the
tion and the amendment of 1H70, provide for a special verdict. Decisions under the
sas P. K'y Co. v. Pointer, 14 Kas. 64; Bushv. Peake, 14 Kas. 291; Wyandotte v.
197; McCrum v. Oorby, 11 Kas. 400; McGoniglo v. Gordon, 11 Kai. 175; Gulf K'y C
Kas. 4i5: Nat. Bank v. Peck, 8 Kas. H65 ft seq. : Kas. P. R'y Co. v. Reynolds, 8 Kas.
v. Millington, 8 Kas. 4(*6; Topeka v. Tuttle, 8 Kas. 333.
SEC. 287. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the
court may give judgment accordingly.
SEC. 288. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled
to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must
assess the amount of the recovery.
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
SEC. 289. The trial by jury may be waived by the
parties, ia actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the court
in other actions, in the following manner: By the consent of the party
appearing, when the other party fails to appear at the trial by himself or
attorney. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
clerk. By oral consent, in open court, entered on the journal.
SEC. 290. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the
court, it shall not be necessary for the court to state its finding, except
generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of the parties request
it, with the view of excepting to the decision of the court upon the
questions of law involved in the trial; in which case the court shall
state, in writing, the conclusions of fact found, separately from the condusions of law.
Kas. 39; Lacy v. Dunn, 5 Kas. 567; Major v. Major, 2Kas. 337; L. L. & G. R'y Co.
18Kas.l87.
TRIAL BY REFEREES.
(3819) § 291. Sue. 291. All or any of the issues in the action,
whether of fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written
consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court, entered upon
11 . i r r
tne journal.
Kas. ::.'!; Lannan v. Clavln, 3 Kas. 18; Savage v. Chal
SEC. 292. When the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in either of the following cases: Where the trial of an issue of fact
v. Pe
shall require the examination of mutual accounts, or when the account
is on one side only, and it shall he made to appear to the court that it is
necessary tna(; the party on the other side should be examined as a witness
to prove the account; in which case the referees may be directed to
hear and report upon the whole issue, or upon any specific question of
fact involved therein; or where the taking of an account shall be neces
sary for the information of the court before judgment, in cases which
may be determined by the court, or for carrying a judgment into effect;
or where a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of an action.
SEC. 293. A trial before referees is conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same power to
summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to administer allnecessarv
oaths in the trial of the case, and to grant adjournments, as the
court, upon such trial. They must state the facts found and the conelusions
of law separately, and their decisions must be given, and may
^e exceP';e<i ^° and reviewed in like manner. The report of the referees
upon the whole issue stands as the decision of the court, and judgment
mav be entered thereon in the same manner as if the action had been
tried by the court. When the referee is to report the facts, the report
has the eifect of a special verdict.
4tjO:power6, DeLong v. StaUl, 13 Kas. 558; Martsolf v. Barnwell, 15 Kas. 61Z;
14 Kas. 100.
SEC. 294. In all cases of reference, the parties, except
-when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or
persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accord
ingly; and if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or
more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.
295-. SEC> 295' I<; sna11 be the duty ^ the referees to. s'f1
exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made in the
case, and return the same, with their report, to the court making the
reference.
SEC. 296. A judge, in vacation, upon the written con
sent of the parties, may make any order of reference which the court of
which he is a member could make in term time. In such case, the order
of reference shall be made on the written agreement of the parties to
refer, and shall be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other papers
in the case,
SEC. 297. The referees must be sworn or affirmed well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and
true report therein, according to the best of their understanding. The
oath may be administered by any person authorized to take depositions.
SEC. 298. The referees shall be allowed such compen
sation for their services as the court may deem just and proper, which
shall be taxed as part of the costs in the case.
EXCEPTIONS.
SEC. 299. An exception is an objection to a decision
of the court or judge upon a matter of law.
by the Judge, Waysman v. Updegraph, McCahon's R. 89; Instructions mnst be exv.
Emmert. 10'Kas. 838; Ferguson v. Graves, 18 Kas. 89; City of Atchlpon v.
Stunner v. Blair, 9 Kas. 531; Kas. P. R'y Co. y. Nichols, 9 Kas. 836. Affidavit*
of the record must be included in the bill of exceptions, Altschlcl v. Smith, 9 Kas.
I Kas SCO; see, also, determining particular questions; Ilynca v. Jungren, 8
v. Golf R'y Co. 9 Kas. 873; Glass Co. v. Ludlnm, 8 Kas. 40; Seinert v. Trno, 8
v. Wade, 8 Kas 380: Leavenworth v. Mills, 6 Kas. S8S; Clark v. R'y Co. 5 Kas.
Collins, 5 Kas. 3U1; Drake v. Dodjworth, 4 Kas. 159; McCreary v. Cockrlll, 3
SEC. 300. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to reduce
the exception to writing, but not beyond the term. If the decision objected
to is made in vacation or at chambers, the judge may give time to
reduce the exception to writing, not exceeding ten days.
v. Bouthitt, I Kas. 333 ; Koefiler T . Ball, 2 Kas . 160.
SEC. 301. No particular form of exception is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it. and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.
Tem T. Wilcor, 6 Kas. 54; Koefiler v. B
SEC. 302. Where the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at the end of the
decision, that he excepts.
McArthnr v. Mitchell, 7 Kas. 176; Tefftv. Wil
SEC. 303. Where the decision is not entered on the record,
or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the
party excepting must reduce his exceptions to writing, and present it to
the judge for his allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to
allow and sign it; whereupon it shall be filed with the pleadings as aK
part of the record, but not spread at large on the journal. If the writ
ing is not true, the judge shall correct it, or suggest the correction to
be made, and it shall then be signed as aforesaid.
SEC. 304. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is
material and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party excepting.
Andrews v. Alcorn, 13 Kas. 35!); Ka8. P.R'y Co. v. Pointer, 9 Kas. 626; Case v. Hanna
SEC. 305. Exceptions taken to the decision of any
court of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the
files by the party taking the same, at any time before proceedings in
error are commenced.
NEW TEIAL.
SEC. 306. A new trial is a reexamination, in the same
court, of an issue of fact, after a verdict by a jury, report of a referee, or
a decision by the court. The former verdict, report or decision shall be
vacated, and a new trial granted, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, affecting materially the sub
stantial rights Of such party:
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee, or
prevailing party, or any order of the court or referee, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
Third. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.
Fourth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice.
Fifth. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether
top large or too small, where the action is upon a contract, or for the
injury or detention of property.
Sixth. That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contrary to law.
Seventh. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
Eighth. Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the
party making the application.
& T. R'y Co. v. Weaver, 16 Kas. 465; verdict against evidence, Backns v. Clnrk, 1 K
K'y Co. v. Coldwell, 5Kas. Bi; Anthouy v. Eddy, 5 Kas. 127; Abeles v. Cohen, 8 Ka
Ford.O Kas. 17; Hyde v. Bledsoe, 9 Kas. 399; Swartzell v. Rogers, :< Kas. 374; McCr
Kas. 112; Bridge Co. v. Murphy, 13 Kas. 35; Atyco v. Kelsey, 13 Kas. S12; newly
dence, Clark v. Hall, 10 Kas. 81; Kirby v. Childs, 10 Kas. "639; Smith v. William
Swartzell v. Rogers, 3 Kas. 374; State v. Kellerman, 14 Kas. 135; Klopp v. Jill, 4 Ka
duct of the judge, Carllnv. Donegan, 15 Kas. 173; of the Jury, Larimer v: Keller, 13
party, Boydv. Sanford 14 Kas. s>80; fraud, Kykendall v. Clinton, 8 Kas. 85; Laith
12 Kas. 340; unavoidable casualty or misfortune: Reed v. Wilson, 18 Kas. 153;
Intoshv Crawford Co. 18 Kas. 171; other grounds, K. M. R'y Co. v. Akcrs.4 Kas.
Housli, 4 Kas. 535; State v. Dickeon, B Kas 203; Long v. Duncan, 10 Kaa. 294; M. K
v. Munkers, 11 Kas. 228; May v. Ham, 10 Kas. 593.
SEC. 307. A new trial shall not be granted on account
of the smallness of the damages, in an action for an injury to the person
or reputation, nor in any other action where the damages shall equal the
actual pecuniary injury sustained.SEC. 308. The application for a new trial must be
made at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered; and, except
for the cause of newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered aid
projuce(i at ^e foal, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
SEC. 309. The applicafon must be by motion, upon
written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The causes
enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven, of section three hundred
and six, must be sustained by affidavits, showing their truth, and
may ke controverted by affidavits.
SEC. 310. Where the grounds for a new trial could
not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are discovered
after the term at which the verdict, report of referee or decision
was rendered or made, the application may be made by petition, filed as
^n ofljer caseSi not later than the second term after discovery ; on which
a summons shall issue, be returnable and served, or publication made, as
prescribed in section seventy-four. The facts stated in the petition shall
be considered as denied without answer, and if the service shall be com
plete in vacation, the case shall be heard and summarily decided at the
ensuing term, and if in term, it shall be heard and decided after the expira
tion of twenty days from such service. The case shall be placed on the
trial docket, and the witnesses shall be examined in open court, or their
depositions taken as in other cases; but no such petition shall be filed
more than one year after the final judgment was rendered.
GEtfEBAL PEOVTSIOXS.
SEC. 311. Whenever damages are recoverable, the
plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may be
entitled for the cause of action established.
SEC. 312. The provisions of this article respecting
, A . , ' °. , ,, .f ., . ,. r, ,
trials by mry apply, so tar as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court.
SEC. 313. A trial docket shall be made out by the
clerk of court, at least twelve days before the first day of each term of
^ne c.our^ an^ *ne action shall be set for particular days in the order
hereinafter stated, and so arranged that the cases set for each day shall
be tried as nearly as may be on that day, namely: First, Issues of fact to
be tried by a jury. Second, Issues of fact to be tried by the court. Third,
Issues of law. If the defendant fails to answer or demur, the cause, for
^he PurPose 91" this section, shall be deemed to be at issue upon questions
of fact ; but in every such case the plaintifff may move for and take such
judgment as he is entitled to on the defendant's default on or after the
^av on ^h*0!1 sa^ action shall be set for trial. No witnesses shall be
subpoenaed in any case while the cause stands upon issue of law; and
whenever the court shall regard the demurrer in any case as frivolous,
and put in for delay only, no leave to answer or reply shall be given,
unless upon payment of all costs then accrued in the action.
SEC. 314. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment
of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which they are'placed
on ^e ^"^ docket, unless by the consent of the parties or the order of
the court they are continued or placed at the heel of the docket, unless
the court, in its discretion, shall otherwise direct. The court may,
in its discretion, hear at any time a motion, and may by rule prescribe
the time for hearing motions.
and in 1871 changed as here set forth.
SEC. 315. Actions shall be triable at the first term of
the court after the issues therein by the times fixed for pleading are, or
snall have been made up ten days before the term. When issues of law
are made up either before or during a term of court, but after the period
preparing the trial docket of such term, the clerk shall -place such
actions on the trial docket of that term; and when any demurrer shall
be adjudged to be frivolous, the cause shall stand for hearing or trial in
like manner as if an issue of fact had been joined in the first instance;
but the court may in its discretion fix specially the time when such
i 11 A j f i ' i ~
cause shall stand ior trial.
ed by the law of 1871, as here set forth. Butler v. McMillan, 18 Kas. 398; State v. Mont
S53; Douglas v.Kinehardt. 5 Kas. 396; Gapenv. Stepheneon, 18 Kas. 145.
SEC. 316. The court may, for good cause shown, continue
an action at any stage of the proceedings, upon such terms as may
be just. When a continuance is granted on account of the absence of
evidence, it shall be at the cost of .the party making the application, 8
unless the court otherwise order.
SEC. 317. A motion for a continuance, on account of
the absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit, showing the
materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligencehas
been used to obtain it, and where the evidence may be; and if
it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must show where the witness
resides, if his residence is known to the party, and the probability of
procuring his testimony within a .reasonable time, and what facts he
believes the witness will prove, and that he believes them to be true. If,
thereupon, the adverse party will consent that on the trial the facts
alleged in the affidavit shall be read and treated as the deposition of the
absent witness, or that the facts in relation to other evidence shall be^
taken as proved to the extent alleged in the affidavit, no continuance
shall be granted on the ground of the absence of such evidence.
Dickson, 6 Kac. §»; diligence, Butler v. McMillan, 13 Kas. 385: Payue v. If ationa
15S; State v. White, 17 Kas. 491.
SEC. 318. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial
docket lor the use of the bar, before the first day of the term of court.
SEC. 319. No person shall be disqualified as a witness,
. \ '.".,.. .. r , .. , . > , . ..
in any civil action or proceeding, by reason or his interest m the event
°f the same, as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a
crime; but such interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of
n* .. i • j-i.'i*i
aflecting his credibility.
overruling prior cases on the credibility of witnesses. Uigbce v. McMillan, 13
SEC. ion contained
shall, in any manner, affect the laws now existing, relating to the
settlement of estates of deceased persons, infants, idiots or lunatics, or
the attestation of the execution of last wills and testaments, or of conveyances of real estate, or of any other instrument required by law to
be attested.
SEC. 321. Any party to a civil action or proceeding
may compel any adverse party or person, for whose benefit such action or
Proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or defended, at the trial, or by deposi
tion, to testify as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules, as other witnesses.
SEC. 322. No party shall be allowed to testify in his
own behalf, in respect to any transaction or communication had persona"y
by such Party with a deceased person, when the adverse party is
the executor, administrator, heir at law, next of kin, surviving partner
or assignee of such deceased person, where they have acquired title to
the cause of action immediately from such deceased person; nor shall
the assignor of a thing in action be allowed to testify in behalf of such
I5arty concerning any transaction or communication had personally bv
such assignor with a deceased person in any such case; nor shall sucl i
party or assignor be competent to testify to any transaction had person
ally by such party or assignor with a deceased partner or joint con
tractor in the absence of his surviving partner or joint contractor, when
such surviving partner or joint contractor is an adverse party. If th j
testimony of a party to the action or proceeding has been taken, and he
afterwards die, and the testimony so taken shall be used after his death,
in behalf of his executors, administrators, heirs at law, next of kin,
assignee, surviving partner or joint contractor, the other party, or the
assignor, shall be competent to testify as to any and all matters to
which the testimony so taken relates.
SEC. 323. The following persons shall be incompetent
to testify.First. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of their production
for examination.
Second. Children under ten years of age who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly.
Third. Husband and wife, for or against each other, except concerning
transactions in which one acted as the agent of the other, or when they
are joint parties and have a joint interest in the action; but in no case
shall either be permitted to testify concerning any communication made
by one to the other during the marriage, whether called while that rel
tion subsisted, or afterwards.
Fourth. An attorney, concerning any communications made to him
by his client, in that relation, or his advice thereon, without the client's
consent.
Fifth. A clergyman or priest concerning any confession made to him
in his professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs, without the consent of the person making
the confession.
Sixth. A physician or surgeon concerning any communication made
to him by his patient with reference to any physical or supposed phys
ical disease, or any knowledge obtained by a personal examination of
any such patient: Prodded, That if a person offer himself as a wit
ness, that is to be deemed a consent to the examination; also, if an
attorney, clergyman or priest, physician or surgeon on the same subject,
within the meaning of the last three subdivisions of this section.
MEANS OF PRODUCING WITNESSES.
SEC. 324. The clerks of the several courts, and judges
of the probate courts, shall, on application of any person having a
cause or any matter pending in the court, issue a subpoena for witnesses,
under the seal of the court, inserting all the names required by the
applicant in one subpoena, which may oe served by the sheriff, coroner
or any constable of the county, or by the party, or any other person.
When a subpoena is not served by the sheriff, coroner or constable, proof
of service shall be shown by affidavit; but no costs of service of the
same shall be allowed, except when served by an officer.
SEC. 325. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time and place, to
testify as a witness; and it may contain a clause directing the witness to
bring with him any book, writing or other thing, under his control,
which he is bound by law to produce as evidence.
SEC. 326. When the attendance of the witness, before
any officer authorized to take depositions, is required, the subpoena shall
be issued by such officer.
SEC. 327. The subpoena shall be served either by reading
or by copy delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place of residence; but such copy need not contain the name of any other witness.
SEC. 328. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action except in the county of his
residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the county where
he resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is served upon him.
SEC. 329. A witness may demand his traveling fees
and fee f°r one day's attendance, when the subpoena is served upon him;
and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not be obliged to obey the
subpoena. The fact of such demand and non-payment shall be stated in
the return.
SEC. 330. Disobedience of a subpoena, or refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when lawfully
ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer by
whom his attendance or testimony is required.
SEC. 331. When a witness fails to attend in obedience
a subpoena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees),
the court or officer before whom his attendance is required may issue an
attachment to the sheriff, coroner or constable of the county, command
ing him to arrest and bring the person therein named before the court
or officer, at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his
testimony and answer for the contempt. If the attachment be not for
immediately bringing the witness before the court or officer, a sum may
be fixed in which the witness may give an undertaking, with surety, for
his appearance; such sum shall be indorsed on the back of the attach
ment; and if no sum is so fixed and indorsed, it shall be one hundred
dollars. If the witness be not personally served, the court may, by a
rule, order him to show cause why an attachment should not issue
against him.
SEC. 332. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
.^ 8egtjon three hundred and thirty-one, shall be as follows: When
the witness fails to attend, in obedience to the subpoena (except in case
of a demand and failure to pay his fees), the court or officer may fine
the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the
court or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dol
lars, or may imprison him in the county jail, there to remain until he
shall submit to be sworn, testify or give his deposition. The fine im
posed by the court shall be paid into the county treasury, and that
imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the party for whom the
witness was subpoenaed. The witness shall, also, be liable to the party
injured for any damages occasioned by his failure to attend, or his
refusal to be sworn, testify or give his deposition.
SEC. 333. A witness so imprisoned by an officer before
whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of a court of
record, who shall have power to discharge mm, if it appears that his
imprisonment is illegal.
SEC. 334. Every attachment for the arrest, or order of
commitment to prison of a witness by a court or officer, pursuant to this chapter, must be under the seal of the court or officer, if he have an
official seal, and must specify, particularly, the cause of the arrest or
commitment; and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a ques
tion, such question must be stated in the order. Such order of commit
ment may be directed to the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the
county where such witness resides, or may be at the time, and shall be
executed by committing him to the jail of such county, and delivering a
copy of the order to the jailor.
SEC. 335. A person confined to any prison in this
state, may, by order of any court of record, be required to be produced
for oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned, but in all
other cases his examination must be by deposition.
SEC. 336. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken,
he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in charge, who
shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition,
SEC. 337. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
counj.y jn wuicn ne <joeg not reside, by being served with a summons in
such county, while going, returning or attending, in obedience to a
subpoena.
SEC. 338. At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness may demand his fees for that day's attendance, in
obedience to a subpoena; and if the same be not paid, he shall not be
required to remain.
SEC. 339. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn
to testify^ the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The
mode of "administering an oath shall be such as is most binding on the
conscience of the witness. An interpreter may be sworn to interpret
truly, whenever necessary.
MODE OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES.
SEC. 340. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three
modes: First, by affidavits. Second, by deposition. Third, by oral
examination.
SEC. 341. An affidavit is a written declaration, under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 342. A deposition is a written declaration, under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the purpose of enabling
him to attend and cross-examine, or upon written interrogatories.
SEC. 343. An oral examination is an examination in
the presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act1
upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips
of the witness.
AFFIDAVITS.
SEC. 344. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading,
to prove the service of a summons, notice or other process in an
action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a
stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, or in any other case permitted by
law.
SEC. 345. An affidavit may be made in and out of this
state, before any person authorized to take depositions, and must be
authenticated in the same way, except as provided for the verification of
pleadings.
DEPOSITIONS.
SEC. 346. The deposition of any witness may be used
i • ii <> n
onlv in the following cases:
First. When the witness does not reside in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial by change of venue,
or is absent therefrom.
Second. When, from age, infirmity or imprisonment, the witness is
unable to attend court, or is dead.
Third. When the testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other
case where the oral testimony of the witness is not required.
SEC. 347. Either party may commence taking testimony
by deposition at any time after service upon the defendant.
OFFICES WHO MAT TAKE THEM.
SEC. 348. Depositions may be taken in this state
before a judge or clerk of a court of record, before a county clerk, justice
of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or
town corporate, or before a master commissioner, or any person empowered by a special commission ; but depositions taken in this state, to be
used therein, must be taken by an officer or person whose authority is
derived within the state.
SEC. 349. Depositions may be taken out of this state
by a judge, justice or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of the
peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take
depositions, or any person authorized by a special commission from this
'state.
SEC. 35?- The officer ^fore whom depositions are
taken must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise
interested in the event of the action or proceeding.
. (3879) §351. SEC. 351. Any court of record of this state, or any
judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions
within or without the state. The commission must be issued to a person
or persons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the court grant
ing the same; and depositions under it must be taken upon written
interrogatories, unless the parties otherwise agree.
MANNER OP TAKING AND AUTHENTICATING THEM.
SEC. 352. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless
taken under a special commission, a written notice, specifying the action
or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be
*, , . B". . ,, o i i • n 1111 i
used, and the time and place ot taking the same, shall be served upon
the adverse party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual
place of residence. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse
party sufficient time, by the usual route of travel, to attend, and one
day for preparation, exclusive of Sunday and the day of service; and the
examination may, if so stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to
day.
SEC. 353. When the party against whom the deposiyon -g j.Q ^ rea|j ^ a^gen^ from or a non-resident of the state, and has
no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be notified of the taking
of the deposition by publication. The publication must be made three
consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county,
and if not, in some newspaper printed in this state, of general circula
tion in the county. The publication must contain all that is required
in a written notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed for
service by publication at the commencement of the action.
SEC. 354. The deposition shall be written in the
presence of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the witness
or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the witness.
SEC. 355. The deposition, so taken, shall be sealed up
^nd iadorsed with the title of the cause and th,e name Of the officer tak"^ *ke same, and by him addressed and transmitted to the clerk of the
courj. w]iere jjje action or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under
seal until opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the request
of a party to the action or proceeding, or his attorney.
SEC. 356. The depositions taken pursuant to this artic^e
g^ajj ^e admitte(j jn evidence on the trial of any civil action or pro
ceeding pending, before any justice of the peace, mayor or other judicial
officer, arbitrator or referee.
SEC. 357. When a deposition has been once taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any
other action or proceeding upon the same matter between the same par
ties, subject, however, to all such exceptions as may be taken thereto
under the provisions of this article.
SEC. 358. Depositions taken pursuant to this article,
by any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take depositions,
having a seal of office, whether resident in this state or elsewhere, shall
be admitted in evidence, upon the certificate and signature of such
officer, under the seal of the court of which he is an officer, or his official
seal; and no other or further act of authentication shall be required.
If the officer taking the same have no official seal, the deposition,, if not
taken in this state, shall be certified and signed by such officer, and shall
be further authenticated, either by parol proof, adduced in court, or by
the official certificate and seal of any secretary or other officer of the
territory keeping the great seal thereof, or of the clerk or prothonotary
of any court having a seal, attesting that such Judicial or other officer
was, at the time of taking the same, duly qualified, and acting as such
officer. But if the deposition be taken within this state by an officer
having no seal, or within or without this state under a special commis
sion, it shall be sufficiently authenticated by the official signature of the
officer or commissioner taking the same.
SEC. 359. The officer taking the deposition shall annex
thereto a certificate, showing the following facts: That the witness was
first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth; that the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper per
son, naming him; that the deposition was written and subscribed in the
presence of the officer certifying thereto; that the deposition was taken
at the time and place specified in the notice.
SEC. 360. When a deposition is offered to be read in
evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court that, for any
cause specified in section three hundred and forty-six, the attendance of
the witness cannot be procured.
SEC. 361. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence
on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the day of trial.
SEC. 362. The following fees shall be allowed for taking
depositions in this state, viz: Swearing each witness, ten cents; for
each subpoena, attachment or order of commitment, fifty cents; for each
hundred words contained in such deposition and certificate, fifteen cents,
and no more; and such officer may retain the same until such fees are
paid; such officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff or other officer
who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees of the witnesses, and may,
also, if directed by the person entitled thereto, retain such deposition
until the said fees are paid.
EXCEPTION'S TO DEPOSITIONS.
SEC. 363. Exceptions to depositions shall be in
writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the paper
iii the cause.
Co. v. Pointer. 9 Kas. 627; Kisskadden v. Grant, 1 Kas. 328; Johnson v. Mathews,
tawa University v. Parkinson, 14 Kas. 461.
SEC. 364. No exception other than for incompetency
or irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the commencement of the trial.
SEC. 365. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depositions, be
fore the commencement of the trial.
SEC. 366. Errors of the court, in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions, are waived, unless excepted to.
ADHISSI05T, INSPECTION', PBODUCTION AND PROOF OF DOCUMENTS.
SEC. 367. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or document material
to the action, and request an admission, in writing, of its genuineness.
If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission in
writing within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the
paper or document be afterward put to any cost or expense to prove its
- i 1 1 i t* -n i i -it i 11 i • i
genuineness, and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial,
such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by
the party refusing to make the admission, unless it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons for the refusal.
Kernstein v. Smith, 10 Kas. 60; Heed v. Arnold, 10 Kas. J02. City ordinances, T
Co. v. Poin
SEC. 368. Either party, or his attorney, may demand
°^ ^ne Averse party an inspection and copy, or permission to take a
copy, of a book, paper or document in his possession or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense
therein. Such demand shall be in writing, specifying the book, paper
°f document with sufficient particularity to enable the other party to
Distinguish it, and if compliance with the demand, within four days, be
refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to the adverse party,
may, in their discretion, order the adverse party to give to the other,
within a specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a
copy, of such book, paper or document; and on failure to comply with
such order, the court may exclude the paper or document from being
given in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party, by affidavit, alleges
it to be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from
compelling another to produce any book, paper or document when he is
examined as a witness.
SEC. 369. Either party, or his attorney, if required,
shall deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy of any deed,
instrument or other writing whereon the action or defense is founded,
or which he intends to offer in evidence at the trial. If the plaintifff or
defendant shall refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, the party
so refusing shall not be permitted to give in evidence, at the trial, the
original of which a copy has been refused. This section shall not apply
to any paper, a copy of which is filed with a pleading.
SEC. 370. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, codes
or other written law, enacted by any other state or territory, or foreign
government, purporting or proved to have been published by tne
authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the
existing law in the courts or tribunals of such state, territory or governmen*!
^^ be admitted by the courts and officers of this state, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or common
law of any other state, territory or foreign government, may be
proved as facts by parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases
adjudged in their courts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence
of such law.
SEC. 371. Copies of records and proceedings in the
courts of a foreign country may be admitted in evidence, upon being
authenticated as follows:
First. By the official attestation of the clerk or officer in whose cus
tody such records are legally kept; and,
Second. By the certificate of one of the judges or magistrates of such
court that the person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally intrusted
with the custody of such records, and that the signature to his attesta
tion is genuine; and,
Third. By the official certificate of the officer who has the custody o_f
the principal seal of the government under whose authority the court is
held, attested by said seal, stating that such court is duly constituted,
specifying the general nature of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal
of the court.
SEC. 372. Copies of all papers authorized or required
by law to be filed or recorded in any public office, or of any record
required by law to be made or kept in any such office, duly certified by
the officer having the legal custody of such paper or record, under hia
official seal, if he have one, may be received in evidence with the same
effect as the original, when such original is not in the possession or
under the control of the party desiring to use the same.
SEC. 373. The printed statute books of this state, or
of the territory of Kansas, printed under authority, shall be evidence oi
the private acts therein contained
SEC. 374. Copies of any act, law or resolution CPUtained
in the printed statute books of the states and territories of the
United States, purporting to be printed by authority, and which are
now or may be hereafter deposited in the office of the secretary of this
state, and required by law to be kept there, certified under the hand and
seal of office of the secretary of this state, shall be admitted as evidence.
SEC. 375. The printed books containing the acts of
the congress of the United States, purporting to be published by authority
of congress, or by authority of the United States, shall be evidence
of the laws, public or private, general, local or special, therein con
tained.
SEC. 376. Public documents, purporting to be edited
or printed by authority of congress, or either house thereof, shall bem
evidence to the same extent that authenticated copies of the same would be.
SEC. 377. Copies of proceedings before justices of the
peace, certified by the justice before whom the proceedings are had, shall
be evidence of such proceedings.
SEC. 378. Copies of proceedings had before a justice of
the peace, where such justice is out of office, certified by the justice who
is in possession of the docket and papers of such justice, shall be received
in evidence in any court in this state.
SEC. 379. Printed copies of the ordinances, resolutions,
rules, orders and by-laws of any city or incorporated town in this state,
published by authority of such city or incorporated town, and manuscript
copies of the same, certified under the hand of the proper officer,
and haying the corporate seal of such city or town affixed thereto, shall
be received as evidence.
SEC. 380. When, by ordinance or custom of any religious
society, or congregation in this state, a register is required to be
kept of marriages, births, baptisms, deaths or interments, such register
shall be admitted as evidence.
SEC. 381. Copies of the register referred to in the preceding section, certified by the pastor or other head of any such society
or congregation, or by the clerk or other keeper of such register, and
verified by his affidavit in writing, shall be received in evidence.
SEC. 382. Whenever any written evidence in a cause
shall be in a language other than the English, a written translation
thereof, in the English language, made by a competent translator, and
verified by his affidavit, may be read in evidence instead of the original,
it' such original be competent evidence.
SEC. 383. The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver
of any land office, or, if that be lost or destroyed, or beyond the reach
of the party, the certificate of such receiver, that the books of his office
show the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of title
equivalent to a patent against all but the holder of an actual patent.
SEC. 384. Copies of all papers and documents, lawfully
deposited in the office of the register or receiver of any land office of
the United States Within this state, and copies of any official letter or
communication, received by the register or receiver of any such land
office, from any department of the government of the United States,
when duly certified by the register or receiver having the custody of
such paper, document, letter or other official communication, shall be
received in evidence in the same manner and with like effect as the
originals.
SEC. 385. Exemplifications from the books of any of
the departments of the government of the United States, or of any
papers filed therein, shall be admitted in evidence in the same manner
and with like effect as the originals, when attested by the officer having
the custody of such originals.
dcr
SEC. 386. The signature of the officer to any certifi9a*e
or document hereinbefore mentioned, shall be presumed to be genuine until the contrary is shown.
. (39.15) § 3 8 7 • SEC. 387' Entries in books of account may be admitted
in evidence, when it is made to appear by the oath of the person who
made the entries, that such entries are correct, and were made at or near
the time of the transaction to which they relate, or upon proof of the
handwriting of the person who made the entries, in case of his death or
absence from the county.
SEC. 12. The books and records required by law to
be kept by any probate judge, county clerk, county treasurer, register of
deeds, clerk of the district court, justice of the peace, police judge, or
other public officers, may be received in evidence in any court; and when
^y suck record is of a paper, document, or instrument authorized to be
recorded, and the original thereof is not in the possession or under the
control of the party desiring to use the same, such record shall have the
same effect as the original; but no public officer herein named, or other
custodian of public records, shall be compelled to attend any court, officer
or tribunal sitting more than one mile from his office with any record or
•records belonging to his office or in his custody as such officer.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
SEC. 388. The testimony of a witness may be perpet
uated in the manner hereinafter provided.
t3918) § 38?' SEC' 389' Th? aPPlicant sha11 file in the office of tbe
clerk of the district court a petition, to be verified, in which shall be set
forth, specially, the subject matter relative to which testimony is to be
taken, and the names of the persons interested, if known to the appli
cant; and if not known, such general description as he can give of such
persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees or otherwise. The petition shall also
state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interrogatories
to be propounded to each; that the applicant expects to be a party to an
action in a court of this state, in which such testimony will, as he
believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate com
mencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be plaintifff.
SEC. 390. The court, or a judge thereof, invocation,
* A 'n° «n i t 11 • it • >• p i •,
may forthwith make an order allowing the examination 01 such wit-1
nesses. The order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination,
how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner
in which they shall be notified.
(?92°) § 391. SEC. 391. When it appears satisfactorily to the court
or judge that the parties interested cannot be personally notified, such
court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the peti
tion, and prepare and file cross-interrogatories to those contained therein.
The witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the appli
cant, and upon cross-interrogatories, where they are required to be pre
pared, and no others shall be propounded to them; nor shall any state
ment be received which is not responsive to some one of them. The
attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall be allowed a reasonable fee
therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
SEC. 393- Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one specially
authorized by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the office of
the clerk of the court in which the petition was filed.
SEC. 393. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions
have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall approve
the same and order them to be filed; and if a trial be had between the
parties named in the petition, or their privies or successors in interest.
such depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be given in evidence by
either party, where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where attendance
for oral examination cannot be obtained or required; but such depositions
shall be subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made to depositions taken pending an action.
SEC. 394. The applicant shall pay the costs of all such
proceedings.
ARTICLE 17.— JUDGMENT.
SECTION.
395. Judgment, what is.
396. May be given for or against whom,
etc.
397. Action may be dismissed, without
prejudice, in what casea.
398. When defendant may proceed to trial,
although plaintifff may have failed
to appear, etc.
399. Mortgage property to be sold.
400. Judgment for conveyance, etc., ft)
operate as such, sheriff may be or
dered to execute conveyance.
401. How account may be taken, proof
heard, and damages assessed.
JUDGMENT BT CONFESSION.
402. Defendant may confess judgment.
403. Judgment may be entered upon con
fession by an authorized attorney.
404. Pleadings in such cases.
405. Affidavit of defendant.
406. Execution; confession a release of
errors.
407. Warrant of attorney to be produced,
etc.
SECTION.
408. Person in custody may authorize con
fession of judgment, how.
MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING
JUDGMENT.
409. Judgment to conform to verdict.
410. Judgment on special verdict, or case
reversed.
411. Judgment contrary to the verdict.
412. For defendant in cases of counter
claim, set-off, etc.
413. Against infants.
414. Judgments and orders to be entered
on journal.
415. Record to be made, when.
416. When to be made up and signed.
417. Shall consist of what.
418. Further time to complete record;
judge to sign.
419. Judgment a hen on real estate, from
what time; may be entered, and
be a lien in another county; execu
tion shall be issued, from what
court.
SEC. 395. A judgment is the final determination
the rights of the parties in an action.
The Slate v. McArthnr, 5 Kas. 232. General references, on money demand, comput
etc., Simmons v. Garrett, McCahon's R. 83. Presumption, Pratt v. Miller, 2 Kas.
Dunn, 8 Kas. 128; Ueflerlin v. Stnckslager, 6 Kas. 166: U. P. R'y Co. v. McCarty. 8
croft v. Chambers, 10 Kas. 364. Irregularities, and effect of, Topeka v. Tnttle, 5 Ka
be attacked collaterally. Paine v. Spratley, 5 Kas. Ml. What bound by. Klser v. Saw
By consent, U. P. R'y Co. v. McCarty, 8 Kas. 126; Elder v. National Bank, 12 Kas.
effect. Mills v. Ralston, 10 Kas. 206; U. P. H'y Co. v. McCarty, 8 Kas. 126. Compr
Hoysradt, 8 Kas. 74. Default, Armstrong v. Grant, 7 Kas. 285. Foreign judgment
Bank, 2 Kas. 70; Arnott v. Webb, 1 Din. 362; French v. Pease, 10 Kas. 81. Vo
Butcher v. Bank, 2 Kas. 70; Repine v. McPherson, 2 Kas. 840; Case v. Hannahs, 2 K
v. Dunn, 5 Kas. 254; The State v. McArthnr, 5 Kas. 2S3; Kas. P. R'y Co. v. Stree
North v. Moore, 8 Kas. 143; Moore v. Wade, 8 Kas. 380; Isaacs v. Price, 2 Dill. 34
Chambers, 11 Kas 368. Particular cases, McBrlde v. Hartwell. 2Kns. 411; Cohen v
Kas. 885; Anld v. Kimberlin,7 Kas. 608; Foreman v. Carter, 9 Kas. 674; Bliby v. Bai
Xunc pro titnc. Small v. Douthitt, 1 Kas. 335
SEC. 396. Judgment may be given for or against one
or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several
defendants; it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on either
side, as between themselves, and it may grant to the defendant any
affirmative relief to which he may be entitled. In an action against
several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judgment
against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the
others, whenever a several iudgment may be proper. The court may
also dismiss the petition witn costs, in favor of one or more defendants,
in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintifff to serve the^
summons on other defendants, or proceed in the cause against the
defendant or defendants served.
SEC. 397. An action may be dismissed, without prejuj- v i ' ? i ,• r '
dice to a iuture action:
First. By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the case to the
jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
Second. By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial.
Third. By the court, for the want of necessary parties.
Fourth. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants,
where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.
Fifth. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintifff of an order concerning
the proceedings in the action.
Sixth. In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision
must be upon the merits.
SEC. 398. In any case where a set-off or counterclaim
has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to
the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff may have dismissed his
action or failed to appear.
SEC. 399' In actions to enforce a mortgage, deed of
trust, or other lien or charge, a personal judgment or judgments shall
be rendered for the amount or amounts due, as well to the plaintifff as
_other parties to the action having liens upon the mortgaged premises
^' mortga?e °r otherwise, with interest thereon, and for the sale of the
property charged and the application of the proceeds, or such application
may be rescrved for the further order of the court; and the court shall
tax the costs, attorneys' fees,1 and "expenses which may accrue in the
action, and apportion the same among the parties according to their
respective interests, to be collected on the order of sale or sales issued
thereon; -when the same mortgage embraces separate tracts of land
situated in two or more counties, the sheriff of each county shall make
sa'e °^ *ke lands situated in the county of which he is sheriff. No real
estate shall be sold for the payment of any money, or the performance
°f aD7 contract or agreement in writing, in security for which it may
have been pledged or assigned, except in pursuance of a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction ordering such sale.
Johnnycake, 9 Kas. 307; Tholen v. Duffy. 7 Kas. 411 ; Koote v. Spragne, 13 Kas. 155.
SEC. 400. When a judgment shall be rendered for a
conveyance, release or acquittance, in any court of this state, and the
party against whom the judgment shall be rendered does not comply
therewith by the time appointed, such judgment shall have the same
operation and effect, and be as available, as if the conveyance, release or
acquittance had been executed conformably to such judgment; or the
court may order such conveyance, release or acquittance to be executed
in the first instance by the sheriff; and such conveyance, release or
acquittance, so executed, shall have the same effect as if executed by the
party against whom the judgment was rendered. This section shall
apply to decrees rendered or to be rendered in suits now pending.
SEC. 401. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
a fact, or the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to
judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an
issue of law, the court may, with the assent of the party not in default,
take the account, hear the proof, or assess the damages; or may, with
the like assent, refer the same to a referee or master commissioner, or
may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be
ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which the action is set for trial.
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.
SEC. 402. Any person indebted, or against whom a
cause of action exists, may personally appear in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or person having such
cause of action, confess judgment therefore; whereupon judgment shall
be entered accordingly.
SEC. 403. Judgments may be entered upon confession
^y an attorneyi authorized for that purpose by a warrant of attorney,
acknowledged or proved as conveyances of land, without any previous
process or proceeding; and judgments so entered shall be a lien from the
date of entry.
SEC. 404. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in the judgment, or in writing, to be filed as pleadings in other
actions.
SEC. 405. Before any judgment shall be entered by
confession, an affidavit of the defendant must be filed, stating concisely
the facts on which the indebtedness arose, and that the amount of such
indebtedness is justly due and owing by the defendant to the plaintifff.
SEC. 406. Such judgment shall authorize the same
Eroceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions reguirly brought and prosecuted; and the confession shall operate as a
release of errors.
SEC. 407. Every attorney, who shall confess judgment
in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce the
warrant of attorney for making the same to the court before which he
makes the confession, and the original or a copy of the warrant shall be
filed with the clerk of the court in which the judgment shall be entered.
SEC. 408. If any person be in custody in a civil action,
at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney, executed by the person
m custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person at whose
suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless some attorney,
expressly named by the person in custody, be present and sign the war
rant of attorney as a witness.
MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.
SEC. 409. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, unless
it is special or the court order the case to be reserved for future argu-P
raent or consideration.
SEC. 410. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or where the
court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judgment
shall be entered.
SEC. 411. Where, upon the statement in the pleadings,
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall oe
so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found against such
party.
SEC. 412. If a counterclaim or set-off, established at
the trial, exceed the plaintifff 's claim so established, judgment for the
defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the defend
ant is entitled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefore.
SEC. 413. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a
judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause against it after
his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but for this section,
such reservation would have been proper, the infant, within one year
after arriving at the age of twenty-one years, may show cause against
such order or judgment.
SEC. 414. All judgments and orders must be entered
on the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or
order made in [the! action.
SEC. 415. The clerk shall make a complete record of
every cause as soon as it [is] finally determined, whenever such record
shall be ordered by the court.
SEC. 416. He shall make up such record, in each cause,
in the vacation next after the term at which the same was determined;
and the presiding judge of such court shall, at its next term thereafter,
subscribe the same.
SEC. 417. The record shall be made up from the petition,
the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdiets, orders, judgments, and all material acts and proceedings of the
court; but if the items of an account, or the copies of papers attached
to the pleadings, be voluminous, the court may order the record to be
made by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent description
thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must not be recorded.
SEC. 418- When tae Judicial acts or other proceedings
of any court have not been regularly brought up and recorded by the
clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be made up and recorded
•within such time as it may direct. When they are made up, and, upon
examination, found to be correct, the presiding judge of such court
shall subscribe the same.
SEC. 419. Judgments of courts of record, of this state,
and of courts of the United States rendered within this state, shall be
jjeng on ^e reaj ^state Of the debtor, within the county in which the
judgment is rendered, from the first day of the term at which the judgment
is rendered; but judgments by confession, and judgments rendered
a* *ne same term during which the action was commenced, shall bind
such lands only from the day on which such judgment was rendered.
^n attested copy of the journal entry of any judgment, together with a
statement of the costs taxed against the debtor in the case, may be filed
in the office of the clerk of the district court of any county, and such
judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the debtor, within that
county, from the date of filing such copy. The clerk shall enter such
judgment on the appearance and judgment dockets in the same manner
as if rendered in the court of which he is clerk. Executions shall only
be issued from the court in which the judgment is rendered.
ARTICLE 18.— CAUSES OF ACTION WHICH SURVIVE, AND ABATEMENT
OF ACTIONS.
SECTION.
420. What causes of action survive.
421. What actions shall not abate. •
SECTION .
422. Personal representatives may main
tain action, in what case.
SEC. 420. In addition to the causes of action which survive
at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for an injury to
the person, or to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud, shall
a^so suryive> an<^ *ne action may be brought, notwithstanding the death
of the person entitled or liable to the same.
18 Kas. 52.
SEC. 421. No action pending in any court shall abate
kv ^ ^ea£n Of either or both the parties thereto, except an action for
libel, slander, malicious prosecution, for a nuisance, or against a justice
of the peace for misconduct in office, which shall abate by the death of
the defendant.
SEC. 422. When the death of one is caused by the
wrongful act or omission of another, the personal representatives of the
former may maintain an action therefore against the latter, if the former
might have maintained an action had he lived, against the latter for an
injury for the same act or omission. The action must be commenced
within two years. The damages cannot exceed ten thousand dollars,
a11"! must inure to the exclusive benefit of the widow and children, if
anv'or nex^ of kin, to be distributed in the same manner as personal
property of the deceased.
bil; Atchlson v. Twine, 9 Kas. 330.
SEC. 423. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants
in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal representative cease, if the right of action survive to or against the re
maining parties the action may proceed, the death of the party or the
cessation of his powers being stated on the record.
SEC. 424. Where one of several plaintifffs or defend.ants
dies, or his powers as a personal representative cense, if the cause of
action do not admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion that the
merits of the controversy can be properly determined and the principles
applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the same as
Ijetween the remaining parties: but the judgment shall Hot prejudice
any who were not parties at the time of trial.
SEC. 425. When one of the parties to an action dies,
or his powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if
the right of action survive in favor of or against his representatives or
successors, the action may be revived and proceed in their name?.
SEC. 426. The revivor shall be by an order of the
i i • • i 1 1 * J_1 *
court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if in vacation, that the
action be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or
against them.
SEC. 427. The order may be made on the motion of
the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party
who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death or the cessation
of his powers, which, with the names and capacities of his representa
tives or successor, shall be stated in the order.
SEC. 428. If the order is made by consent of the parties,
the action shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by consent, notice of the application for such order shall be served in the
.same manner and returned within the same time as a summons, upon
the part3r adverse to the one making the motion: and if sufficient cause
be not shown against the revivor, the order shall be made.
SEC. 429. When the plaintifff shall make an affidavit
that the representatives of the defendant, or any one of them, in whose
name it is desired to have the action revived, are non-residents of the
state, or have left the same to avoid the service of the order [notice], or
so concealed themselves that the order [notice] cannot be served upon
them, or that the names and residence ot the heirs or devisees of the per
son against whom the action may be ordered to be revived, or some of
them, are unknown to the affiant, a notice may be published for three
consecutive weeks, notifying them to appear on a day therein named, not
less than ten days after the publication is complete, and show cause why
the action should not be revived against them; and, if sufficient cause
be not shown to the contrary, the order shall be made.
SEC. 430. "Upon the death of the plaintifff in an action,
.. x t • a • xi ? t • L n i i i • • i ;
it may be revived in the names ot his representatives, to whom his right
nas passed. Where his right has passed to his personal representatives,
the revivor shall be in their names; where it has passed to his heirs or
devisees, who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may
be in their names.
SEC. 431- UPon tne deat1} of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his personal rep
resentatives, the revivor shall be against them; and it may, also, be
against the heirs and devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right
ol action, or any part thereof, survives against them.
SEC. 432. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his rights
or claims to such property, the action may be revived against his heirs
or devisees, or both, and an order therefore may be forthwith made, in the
manner directed in the preceding sections of this article.
SEC. 433' Al1 °rder tO reV'iVC &11 aCtion °-S^^ ^6
representatives or successor of a defendant shall not be made without
the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one year from
the time it could have been first made.
SEC. 434. An order to revive an action, in the names
of the representatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made forthwith,
but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant, after the
expiration of one year from the time the order might have been first
made; but where the defendant shall also have died, or his powers have
ceased, in the meantime, the order of revivor, on both sides, may be
made in the period limited in the last section.
SEC. 435' Wheu i<; appears to the court, by affidavit,
that either party to an action has been dead for a period so long that the
Bction cannot be revived in the names of his representatives or suceessors
without the consent of both parties, or when a party sues or is sued
as a personal representative, that his powers have ceased, the court shall
order the action to be dismissed at the costs of the plaintifff.
SEC. 436. At any term of the court succeeding the
death of the plaintifff, while the action remains on the docket, the
defendant having given the plaintifff's proper representatives, in whose
name the action might be revived, ten days' notice of the application
therefore, may have an order to strike the action from the docket, and for
costs against the estate of the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith
revived.
SEC. 437. "When, by the provisions of the preceding
BecyonS) an action is revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by
reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial at the term
the revivor is complete, had no death or cessation of powers taken place.
KEVIVOE, AKD NEW PARTIES TO JUDGMENT.
SEC. 438. When a judgment is recovered against one
or more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, those who were not
originally summoned may be made parties to the judgment.
SEC. 439. If either or both parties die after judgment,
an^ jjefore satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or personal, or
both, as the case may require, may be made parties to the same, in the
game manner 33 is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment; and
such judgment may be rendered, and execution awarded, as might or
ought to be given or awarded against the representatives, real or per
sonal, or both, of such deceased party.
SEC. 440. If a judgment become dormant, it may be
revived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before
judgment.
SEC. 441. Executions shall be deemed process of the
court, and shall be issued by the clerk, and directed to the sheriff of the
county. They may be directed to different counties at the same time.
SEC. 442. Executions are of four kinds: First,
Against the property of the judgment debtor. Second, Against his per
son. Third, For tne delivery of the possession of real or personal
property, with damages for withholding the same, and costs. Fourth,
Executions in special cases.
EXECUTIONS AGAINST THE PROPERTY OF THE JUDGMENT DEBTOR.
SEC. 443. Lands, tenements, goods and chattels, not
exempt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and shall be
liable to be taken on execution and sold, as hereinafter provided.
SEC. 444- A11 real estate, not bound by the lien of the
judgment, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bound
from the time they shall be seized in execution.
SEC. 445. If execution shall not be sued out within
five years from the date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter
^e rendered, in any court of record in this state, or if five years shall
have intervened between the date of the last execution issued on such
judgment and the time of suing out another writ of execution thereon,
such judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate as a lien
on the estate of the judgment debtor.
SEC. 446. The writ of execution against the property
of the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this state,
shall command the officer to wliom it is directed, that of the eoods and
chattels of the debtor he cause to be made the money specified in the
writ; and for want of goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made
of the lands and tenements of the debtor; and the amount of the debt,
damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall be indorsed
on the execution.
SEC. 447. When two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be sued out during the term in which judgment
was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and when two or more writs
of execution against the same debtor shall be delivered to the officer on
the same day, no preference shall be given to either of such writs; but
if a sufficient sum of money be not made to satisfy all [such] executions,
the amount made shall be distributed to the several creditors, in propor
tion to the amount of their respective demands. In all other cases, the
writ of execution first delivered to the officer shall be first satisfied. And
it shall be the duty of the officer to indorse on every writ of execution
the time when he received the same; but nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to affect any preferable lien which one or more of
the judgments, on which execution issued, may have on the lands of the
judgment debtor.
SEC. 448. The officer to whom a writ of execution is
delivered, shall proceed immediately to levy the same upon the goods and
chattels of the debtor; but if no goods and chattels can be found, the
officer shall indorse on the writ of execution " No goods," and forthwith
levy the writ of execution upon the lands and tenements of the debtor,
which may be liable, to satisfy the judgment.
SEC. 449. If the officer, by virtue of an execution
issued from any court of record in this state, shall levy the same on any
goods and chattels claimed by any person other than the defendant, or
be requested by the plaintifff to levy on any such goods and chattels, the
officer may require the plaintifff to give him an undertaking, with good
and sufficient securities, to pay all costs and damages that he may sustain
by reason of the detention or sale of such property; and until such undertaking
shall be given, the officer may refuse to proceed as against such
property.
SEC. 450. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner or other
officer shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods and chattels
which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for want of bidders, for
the want of time to advertise and sell, or any other reasonable cause, the
officer may, for his own security, take of the defendant an undertaking,
with security, in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect that
the said property shall be delivered to the officer holding an execution,
for the sale of the same, at the time and place appointed by said officer,
either by notice, given in writing, to said defendant in execution, or by
advertisement, published in a newspaper printed in the count}', naming
therein the day and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver
the goods and chattels at the time and place mentioned in the notice to
him given, or to pay to the officer holding the execution the full value
of said goods and chattels, or the amount of said debt and costs, the
undertaking, given as aforesaid, may be proceeded on as in other cases.
SEC. 451. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record, before he
proceeds to sell the same shall cause public notice to be given of the
time and place of sale, for at least ten days before the day of sale. The
notice shall be given by advertisement, published in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed therein, by
setting up advertisements in five public places in the county. Two ad
vertisements shall be put up in the township where the sale is to be
held; and where goods and chattels levied upon cannot be sold for want
of bidders, the officer making such return shall annex to the execution
a true and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels, and the plaint
iff in such execution may thereupon sue out another writ of execution,
directing the sale of the property levied upon as aforesaid; but such
goods and chattels shall not be sold, unless the time and place of sale be
advertised, as hereinbefore provided.
SEC. 452. When any writ shall issue, directing the
sale of property previously taken in execution, the officer issuing said
•writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to the benefit thereof,
his agent or attorney, add thereto a command to the officer to whom
such writ shall be directed, that if the property remaining in his hands
not sold shall, in his opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he
shall levy the same upon lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or
either, as the law shall permit, being the property of the judgment
debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt.
SEC. 453. If execution be levied upon lands and tenements,
the officer levying such execution shall call an inquest of three
disinterested householders, who shall be resident within the county
•where the lands taken in execution are situate, and administer to them
an oath impartially to appraise the property so levied on, upon actual
view; and such householders shall forthwith return to said officer, under
their hands, an estimate of the real value of said property.
SEC. !. That if the words "appraisement waived,"
or other words of similar import, shall be inserted in any deed, mortgage,
bond, note, bill or written contract hereafter made, any court rendering judgment thereon, shall order as part of the judgment that the
same, and any process issued thereon, shall be enforced, and that lands
and tenements may be sold thereunder without appraisement; and such
judgment, and any process issued thereon, shall be enforced, and sales
of lands and tenements made thereunder, without any appraisement or
valuation being made of the property to be sold: Provided, That no
order of sale or execution shall be issued upon such judgment until the
expiration of six months from the time of the rendition of said
judgment.
SEC. 2. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with
any of the provisions of this act,1 are hereby repealed.
March 14, 1874.
SEC. 454. The officer receiving such return shall forth_with
deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court from which the
w-r^ ^ssue(^' an<^ advertise and sell such property, agreeably to the provisions
of this article.
SEC. 455. If, upon such return, as aforesaid, it appears,
.
j.fle mqgjgjtian, that two-thirds of the appraised value of said lands
and tenements, so levied upon, is sufficient to satisfy the execution, with
costs, the j udgment on which such execution issued shall not operate as
•a lien on the residue of the debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any other
judgment creditor; but no such property shall be sold for less -than twothirds of the value returned in the inquest; and nothing in this section
contained shall, in any wise, extend to affect the sale of lands by the
state, but all lands, the property of individuals indebted to the state for
any debt or taxes, or in any other manner, shall be sold, without valua
tion, for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws in
such cases made and provided.
SEC. 456- If tne property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner,
jus^jce 0£ ^ne peac6i constable, or any collector of state, county, town
or township tax, shall be levied on for, or on account of, any monies
that now are, or may hereafter be, by them collected or received in
their official capacity, the property so levied on shall be sold without
valuation.
SEC. 457. Lands and tenements taken on execution
shall not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and
Place °f sale to be given, for at least thirty days before the day of sale,
by advertising in some newspaper printed in the county, or, in case no
J i°-,i-nri- • i •
newspaper be printed m the county, m some newspaper in general circulation
therein, and by putting up an advertisement upon the court house
door, and in five other public places in the county, two of which shall
be in the township where such lands and tenements lie. All sales made
without such advertisement shall be set aside, on motion, by the court
. i • i ,1 ,. • , 11 ' J
to which the execution is returnable.
Terry, Ii Kns. 4*7.
SEC. 458. If the court, upon the return of any writ
°f execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands or tenements hare
been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the proceedings of the
officer, be satisfied the sale has, in all respects, been made in conformity
to the provisions of this article, the court shall direct the clerk to make
an entry on the journal that the court is satisfied with the legality of
suc^ sa'e' an^ an order that the officer make to the purchaser a deed
such lands and tenements; and the officer, on making such sale,
may retain the purchase money in his hands until the court shall have
examine^ his proceedings, as aforesaid, when he shall pay the same to
the person entitled thereto, agreeably to the order of the court.
221; Moore v. Pye, 10 Ka». 246; Mills v. Ralston, 1U Kas. 2)6; Bowman v. Cockrill,
v. Spratley, 5 Kas. 5'»; Benz v. Hines, 3 Has. 390; Wheatley v. Terry, 6
SEC. 459. The sheriff or other officer who, upon such
^^ or wr^.g Of executioni snan sell the said lands and tenements, or
any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser as good and sufficient deed
of conveyance of the lands and tenements sold, as the person or persons
against whom such writ or writs of execution were issued could
have made of the same at, or any time after they became liable to the
judgment. The deed shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of suchM
sale, and the proceedings therein, until the contrary be proved, and
shall vest in the purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises
therein mentioned as was vested in the party at, or afte'r, the time when,
such lands and tenements became liable to the satisfaction of the judg
ment; and such deed of conveyance, to be made by the sheriff or other
officer, shall recite the execution or executions, or the substance there
of, and the names of the parties, the amount and date of rendition of
each judgment, by virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were
sold as aforesaid, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as
is or may be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate
in other cases.
SEC. 460. The officer who levies upon goods and
chattels, or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the same, by virtue of any writ of execution, may refuse to pub
lish a notice of the sale thereof, by advertisement in a newspaper, until
the party for whose benefit such execution issued, his agent or attorney,
shall advance to such officer so much money as will be sufficient to dis
charge the fees of the printer for publishing such notice.
SEC. 461. Before any officer shall be excused from
giving the notification, mentioned in the last section, he shall demand
of the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his ag_ent or
attorney (provided either of them reside in the county), the fees in said section specified.
SEC. 462. All sales of lands or tenements under execu
tion shall be held at the court house, in the county in which such lands
and tenements are situated. No sheriff or other officer making the sale
of property, either personal or real, nor any appraiser of such property,
shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase the same; and every Purchase,
so made, shall be considered fraudulent and void.
SEC. 463. If lands or tenements, levied on as aforesaid,
are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be issued to sell
the property so levied upon.
SEC. 464. In all cases where two or more executions
shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer, and it shall be
necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same, and either of the
judgment creditors, in whose favor one or more of said executions are
issued, shall require the sheriff or other officer to levy said executions, or
so many thereof as may be required, on separate parcels of the real prop
erty of the judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the officer making the
levy on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions
of this article, be entitled to a preference, the choice of such part of the
real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, as will be sufficient, at
two-thirds of the appraised value, to satisfy the same; and in all cases
where two or more executions, which are entitled to no preference over
each other, are put into the hands of the same officer, it shall be the
duty of the officer, when required, to levy the same on separate parcels
of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, when, in the
opinion of the appraisers, the same may be divided without material
injury; and if the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at
two-thirds of its appraised value, to satisfy all the executions chargeable
thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on, to satisfy each execu
tion, as will bear the same proportion in value to the whole, as the
amount due to the execution bears to the amount of all the executions
chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to the appraised value
of each separate parcel of said real property.
SEC. 465. If the term of service of the sheriff or other
•officer who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any lands and tenements, shall expire, or if the sheriff or other officer shall be .absent, or
^>e rendered uruible, by death or otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any succeeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a
certificate from the court from which execution issued for the sale of
g^j iau(js an(j tenements, signed by the clerk, by order of said court,
setting forth that sufficient proof h;is been made to the court that such
sale was fairly and legally made; and on tender of the purchase money.
or if the same or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof of such pay
ment and tender of the balance, if any, may execute to the said pur
chaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of
conveyance of said lands and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as
good and valid in law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other
officer who made the sale had executed the same.
SEC. 46G. If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall
^e in jne hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money than is suffi
cient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and costs,
the sheriff or other officer shall, on demand, pay the balance to the
defendant in execution, or his legal representatives.
SEC. 461. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfac,.v r Y • -i t i L 111111. it.
tion of which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any time tnerear>^er
be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect the title of the
purchaser or purchasers; but, in such cases, restitution shall be made, by
the judgment creditors, of the money, for which such lands or tene
ments were sold, with lawful interest from the day of sale.
SEC. 468. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which
hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not have been taken
ou* an(l levied before the expiration of one year next after its rendition,
shall operate as a lien on the estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of
any other judgment creditor. But in all cases where judgment has
been or may be rendered in the supreme court, and a special mandate
awarded to the district court to carry the same into execution, the lien
of the judgment creditor shall continue for one year after the first day of
the term of the district court to which such mandate may be directed.
Nothing in this section contained shall be construed to defeat the lien of
any judgment creditor who shall fail to take out execution and cause a
levy to be made, as herein provided, when such failure shall be occasioned
by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or by vacancy in the office of
sheriff or coroner, or the disability of such officer, until one year after
such disability shall be removed. In all cases where real estate has been
or may hereafter be taken on execution and appraised, and twice adver
tised and offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it
shall be the duty of the court from which such execution issued, on
motion of the plaintifff, to set aside such appraisement and order a new
one to be made, or to set aside such levy and appraisement and award a
new execution to issue, as the case may require.
SEC. 469. The sheriff or other officer, to whom any
-yrrii of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the court to
which the same is returnable, within sixty days from the date thereof.
Shnltz v. Smith, 17 Kas. 307; Bond v. Weber, 17 Kas. 411.
SEC. 470. In all cases where judgment is rendered in
any court of record within this state, upon any instrument of writing
in which two or more persons are jointly and severally bound, and it
shall be made to appear to the court, by parol or other testimony, that
one or more °f said persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail,
for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said
court, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of the defendantg
ig principal debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk
of the court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, com
manding the sheriff or other officer to cause the money to be made of
the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor; but
for want of sufficient property of the principal debtor to make the same,
that he cause the same to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases, the property, both per
sonal and real, of the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the
court, shall be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or
bail shall be taken in execution.
SEC. 471. Each householder, summoned to appraise
real estate nnder the provisions of this chapter, Vhall be allowed audn
receive for his services the sum of fifty cents for each day he may be so
engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on the execution by virtue of
which the property appraised was levied on, if claimed at the time of
making the return of such appraisement. And when any householder,
summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to appear at the time or place appointed
by the officer, and discharge his duty as appraiser, he shall, 011 complaint
being made to any justice of the peace of the township in which such
householder resides, forfeit and pay the sum of fifty cents for every such
neglect, unless he can render a reasonable excuse. Such sum shall be
collected by said justice, and paid in to the township treasurer, for the
use of the township.
SEC. 472. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or
neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed, which has
come to his hands, or shall neglect or refuse to sell any goods and chattels,
lands and tenements; or shall neglect to call an inquest and return
a copy thereof, forthwith, to the clerk s office; or shall neglect to return
any writ of execution to the proper court, on or before the return day
thereof; or shall neglect to return a just and perfect inventory of all and
singular the goods and chattels by him taken in execution, unless the
said sheriff or other officer shall return that he has levied and made the
amount of the debt, damages and costs; or shall refuse or neglect, on
demand, to pay over to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of record,
all mone3rs by him collected or received for the use of said party, at
any time after collecting or receiving the same, except as provided in section four hundred and fifty-eight; or shall neglect or refuse, on.
demand made by the defendant, his agent or attorney of record, to pay
over all monies by him received for any sale made, beyond what is
sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and
legal costs, such sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court, and
two days' notice thereof, in writing, be amerced in the amount of said
debt, damages and costs, with ten per cent, thereon, to and for the use
of said plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be.
SEC. 473. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or
refuse, on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or
attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received in his official
capacity, for the use or such persons, every such clerk may be amerced,
and the proceedings against him and his sureties shall be the same as
provided for, in the foregoing section, against sheriffs and their sureties.
SEC. 474. When the cause of amercement is for refusing;
to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or other
officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount so with
held, with ten per cent, thereon.
SEC. 475. When an execution is issued to the sheriff
of any county other than that in which the judgment was rendered, the
sheriff, after indorsing the date of its reception thereon, shall deliver the
same to the clerk of the district court of his county, who shall thereupon
enter the same in the execution docket in the same manner as if it had
issued from the court of which he is clerk; and before the sheriff shall
return any such writ, he shall cause his return to ba entered in like
manner.
SEC. 476. When execution shall be issued in any
county in this state, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of another
county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the execution, after having discharged all the duties required of him by law, to
inclose such execution, by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the
same. On proof being made by such sheriff or coroner, that the execu
tion was mailed soon enough to have reached the office where it was
issued within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff or coroner shall not
be liable for any amercement or penalty if it do not reach the office in
due time.
SEC. 477. No sheriff shall forward, by mail, any money
m'™e on any ?uc.n execution, unless he shall be specially instructed to do
it by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of record. In all cases of a
motion to amerce a sheriff, or other officer of any county other than
that from which the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to
such officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or at his
office, at least fifteen days before the day on which such motion shall be
made. All amercements so procured snail be entered on the record of
the court, and shall have the same force and effect as a judgment.
SEC. 478. Each and every surety of any sheriff or
other officer may be made party to the judgment rendered as aforesaid,
against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to be commenced and
prosecuted as in other cases; but the goods and chattels, lands and ten
ements of any such surety shall not be liable to be taken on execution,
when sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements of tlie sheriff
or other officer, against whom execution may be issued, can be found to
satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent either party
from proceeding against such sheriff or other officer, by attachment, at
his election.
SEC. 479. In cases where a sheriff or other officer may
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the original
judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an -execution and collect the
amount of said judgment, in the name of the original plaintifff, for his
use.
SEC. 480. When property, liable to an execution
against several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion
of the judgment is laid upon the property of one of them, or one of
them pays, without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel
contribution from the others; and when a judgment is against several,
and is upon an obligation of one of them, as security for another, and
the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of
his property or before sale, he may compel repayment from, the princi
pal; in such case, the person so paying or contributing is entitled to the
benefit of the judgment, to enforce contribution or repayment, if within
ten days after his payment he file, with the clerk of the court where
the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to con
tribution or repayment. Upon a filing of such notice, the clerk shall
make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket.
PBOCEEDINQS IK AID OF EXECUTION.
SEC. 481. When a judgment debtor has not personal
or real property, subject to levy on execution, sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, any equitable interest which he may have in real estate, as
mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, or any interest he may have in any
"banking, turnpike, oridge, or other joint stock company, or any interest
he may have in any money, contracts, claims, or choses in action, due or
|.0 ^gcome cjue t0 him, or in any judgment or decree, or any money,
goods or effects which he may have m the possession of any person,
body politic or corporate, shall be subject to the payment of such judg
ment, by action, or as hereinafter -prescribed.
SEC. 482. When an execution against a judgment
debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to the
sheriff of the county where he resides, or, if he do not reside in tho
state, to the sheriff of the county where the judgment was rendered, or
a transcript of a justice's judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order of
the probate judge, or judge of the district court, of the county to which
the execution was issued, requiring such debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by
nuch judge, at a time and place specified in such order, within the county
to which the execution was issued.
SEC. 483. After the issuing of an execution against
i ° i >i n*T -i F 11 • i ° i TI i • I c
property, and upon the atndavit ot the judgment creditor, his agent or b
attorney, that the judgment debtor has property which he unjustly B
refuses to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, the probate
judge or judge of the district court of the county in which the order
may be served, may, by order, require the judgment debtor to appear, at
a time and place in said county, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had, for the application of the
property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judg
ment, as hereinafter prescribed.
SEC. 484. Instead of the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the w
judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the party or m
otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, or cou-«d
cealing himself, to avoid the examination herein mentioned, issue a
•warrant requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him before such
judge, within the county in which the debtor may be arrested. Such a
warrant can be issued only by a probate judge, or the judge of the dis
trict court, of the county in which such debtor resides or may be
arrested. Upon being brought before the judge, he shall be examined
on oath, and other witnesses may be examined on either side; and if, on
such examination, it appear that there is danger of the debtor leaving
the state, and that he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply
to such j udgment, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, in
such sum as the judge may prescribe, with one or more sureties, that he
will, from time to time, attend for examination before the judge or
referee, as shall be directed. In default of entering into such undertak
ing, he may be committed to the jail of the county, by warrant of the
judge, as for a contempt.
SEC. 485. No person shall, on examination pursuant
to this article, be excused from answering any question on the ground
that his examination will tend to convict him of a fraud; but his
answer shall not be used as evidence against him in a prosecution for
such fraud.
SEC. 486. After the issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff
the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the execution; and the sheriff 's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for
the amount so paid, or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor
on the execution.
SEC. 487. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors
in the same judgment, where it is made to appear by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that there is reason to believe that
any peison or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require such person or cor
poration, or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time
and place within the county in which such person or corporation may
be served with the order to answer, and answer the same. The judge
may, also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be
given to any party in the action, in such manner as may seem to him
proper.
SEC. 488. Witnesses may be required, upon the order
°^ ^ie jui%e! ^° appear and testify upon any proceedings under this article, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
SEC. 489. The party or witness may be required to
attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or
judge. All examinations and answers before a judge or referee, under
this article, must be on oath, and reduced to writing; but when a cor
poration answers, the answer must be on oath of an officer thereof.
SEC. 490. The judge may order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands either of himself or
[my o^er person Or corporation, or due to the judgment debtor, to be
applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment, and may enforce the
same by proceedings for contempt, in case of refusal or disobedience;
kut the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time
within three months next preceding the order, cannot be so applied,
when it is made to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that
such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or
partly by his labor.
SEC. 491. The judge may also, by order, appoint the
i •«• p°ii , ii B •, Vi • p n
sheriff oi the proper county, or other suitable person, a receiver of the
Property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner and with like
authority as if the appointment was made by the court. The judge may
also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of
the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference there
with.
SEC. 492. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor
has any equitable interest in real estate in the county in which proceed^o8
P6 na^i as mortgagor or mortgagee, or otherwise, and the interest
of said debtor can be ascertained as between himself and the person or
persons holding the legal estate, or the person or persons having a hen
on or interest in the same, without controversy as to the interest of such
person or persons holding such legal estate or interest therein, or hen
on the same, the receiver may be ordered to sell and convey such real
estate, or the debtor's interest therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in
all respects, in the same manner as is provided by this code for the sale
of real estate upon execution; and the proceedings of sale shall, before
the execution of the deed, be approved by the court in which the judg
ment was rendered, or the transcript has been filed as aforesaid, as in
case of sale upon execution.
SEC. 49.3- If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver,he
and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the faithful dis
charge of his duties as receiver, and no additional oath shall be required
of him; if any other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a
written undertaking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by the judge,
with one or more sureties, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge
the duties of receiver, and he shall also take an oath to the same effect
before acting as such receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this sec
tion shall be to the state of Kansas, and actions may be prosecuted for
a breach thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner as upon
a sheriff's official bond.
SEC. 494. The receiver shall be vested with the property
and effects and rights in the action of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, or such part thereof as the court or judge may order,
and may sue for, collect and recover, and dispose of the same, and apply
the proceeds according to the order of the court or judge, and generally
may do such acts concerning the property as the court or judge may
authorize.
SEC. 495- Tne courfc or JU(lge may order tne delivery,
to the receiver, by the judgment debtor, or any other person in whose
possession the same may be, any notes, bills, accounts, contracts, books
or other evidences of indebtedness or right in action, of the judgment
debtor, and may enforce such order by attachment, as for a contempt.
SEC. 496. The judge or referee, acting under the provisions
of this article, shall have power to continue his proceedings, from
time to time, until they shall be completed. v
SEC. 497. The judge may, in his discretion, order a
reference to a referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the
evidence or the facts.
SEC. 498. If any person; party or witness disobey an
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness
may be punished by the judge, as for a contempt.
SEC. ions four hundred
and eighty-two, four hundred and eighty-three, four hundred and
ninety-one, and four hundred and eighty-seven, shall be in writing, and
signed by the judge making the same, and shall be served as a summons
in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his orders to writing, which,
together with the minute of his proceedings, signed by himself, shall be
filed with the clerk of the court of the county hi which the judgment
is rendered, or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall
enter on his execution docket the time of filing the same.
SEC. 500. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs,
referees, receivers and witnesses such compensation as is allowed for like
services in other cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and shall enforce,
by order, the collection thereof, from such party or parties as ought to
pay the same.
SEC. 501. The clerk shall be allowed such fees, for
services under this head, as are allowed for similar services in other
cases.
SEC. 502. When an execution shall have been returned
unsatisfied, the judgment creditor may file an affidavit of himself, his
agent or attorney, in the office of the clerk, setting forth that he has
good reasons to, and does, believe that any person or corporation, to be
named, has property of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him; and
thereupon the clerk shall issue an order, requiring such person or cor
poration to answer, on or before a day to be named in the order, not less
than ten nor more than twenty days from the date of issuing the same,
all interrogatories that may be propounded by the judgment creditor,
concerning such indebtedness or property.
SEC. 503. The judgment creditor, or his attorney,
shall prepare interrogatories concerning such indebtedness or property,
a copy of which shall be served on the garnishee at the time of the service
of the order, or within three days thereafter. And the garnishee
shall, on or before the day required in the order, file with the clerk full
and true answers to all such interrogatories, verified by his affidavit.
SEC. 504. All subsequent proceedings against the garnishee
shall be the same as in cases of attachment, as far as applicable.
EXECUTIONS AGAINST THE PERSON.
SEC. 505. An execution against the person of the judgment
debtor shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county, until he pay the judgment, or is discharged
according to law.
SEC. 506. An execution against the person of the
i L i i • i • i L P ri L f
debtor may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of money:
First. When the judgment debtor has removed, or begun to remove,
any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to
prevent the collection of money due on the judgment.
Second. When he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt,
or some interest or stock in some corporation or company, which he
fraudulently conceals with the like intent.
Scovi
Third. When he has assigned or disposed of all, or any part, of his
property, or rights in action, or has converted the same into money, with
intent to defraud his creditors, or with the intent to prevent such prop
erty from being taken in execution.
Fourth. When he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the
obligation, upon which the judgment was rendered.
Fifth. When he was arrested, on an order, before judgment, and has
not been discharged as an insolvent debtor, or the order has not been
set aside, as improperly made.
SEC. 507. An execution against the person of the
debtor, except as prescribed in section five hundred and nine, can be
issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme court, the district
court, or any judge of either, upon being satisfied, by the affidavit of
the judgment creditor, or his attorney, and such other evidence as may
be presented, of the existence of one or more of the particulars men
tioned in section five hundred and six.
SEC. 508. A justice of the peace may issue an execu
tion against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of
the existence of one or more of the same particulars, by the like affi
davit and evidence.
(404°) § 509' SE°' 509' In dl CaS6S in which the Hgme?t debtor
was arrested before judgment, and has not been released from imprison
ment by an application for relief, as an insolvent debtor, and where
the order for such arrest has not been adjudged improper, an execution
against the person of such judgment debtor may issue of course.
SEC. 510. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid,
shall be discharged by delivering or setting off to the officer serving the
same, if issued from a court of record, real or personal property, if issued
from a justice of the peace, personal property only, sufficient to satisfy
the judgment, and costs, for which the writ is issued.
SEC. 511. Any person imprisoned under the provisions
of this article shall be entitled to prison bounds, which shall be cog^n^ye witn the county, upon executing an undertaking, with one or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that
ne debtor go beyond the prison bounds before being discharged
according to law, he will pay to the plaintifff the amount of the
execution, with interest and costs; but in case the person shall be out of
jail, in prison bounds, the judgment creditor, upon whose judgment he
was imprisoned, shall be entitled to execution against the lands and ten
ements, goods and chattels of the debtor, and all other remedies pre
scribed by this code for the collection of debts.
SEC. 512. The death of a person under arrest in an
action does not satisfy the judgment; but an execution may issue
thereon as if no arrest had been made.
SEC. 513. If a person, imprisoned under an order o£
Krrea^ made before judgment, is not charged in execution, within ten
days after judgment, he shall be discharged from such imprisonment.
SEC. 514. In cases of commitment under this article,
Qr UpOU aj-fegi; before or after judgment, in civil cases, the person
imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the act or to endure the
imprisonment, may be discharged from imprisonment by the court or
judge committing him, or the court or judge thereof in which the judg
ment was or might be rendered, on such terms as may be just.
EXECUTIONS FOR THE DELIVERY OF HEAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
SEC. 515. If the execution be for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, it shall require the officer to
deliver the same, particularly describing the property, to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the officer to sat
isfy any costs or damages, recovered in the same judgment, out of the
goods and chattels of the party against whom it was.rendered; and, for
the want of such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and tene
ments; and in this respect it shall be deemed an execution against the
property.
SEC. 516. When the judgment is not for the recovery
of money or real property, the same may be enforced by attachment,
by the court rendering judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule of
the court upon the defendant; but in either case, notice of motion or a
service of a copy of the rule shall be made on the defendant, a reason
able time before the order of attachment is made.
EXECUTIONS IN SPECIAL CASES.
SEC. 517. In special cases, not hereinbefore provided
for, the execution shall conform to the judgment or order of the court,
When a judgment for any specified amount, and also for the sale of spe
cific real or personal property, shall have been rendered, and an amount,
sufficient to satisfy the amount of the debt or damages and costs, be not
made from the sale of the property specified, an execution may issue for
the balance, as in other cases.
DOCKETING JUDGMENTS OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, AND EXECUTIONS
THEBEON.
SEC. 518. In all cases in which a judgment shall be
rendered by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the judgment shall be rendered ma}' file a transcript of such judgment in the
office of the clerk of the district court of the county in which the judgment was rendered; and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which
the same shall be filed, enter the case on the appearance docket, together
with the amount of the judgment and time of filing the transcript; and
shall also enter the same on the judgment docket, as in case of a judg
ment rendered in the court of which he is clerk.
SEC. 519. Such judgment shall be a lien upon the
real estate of the judgment debtor, from the day of filing the transcript,
in the same manner and to the same extent as if the judgment had been
rendered in the district court.
SEC. 520. Execution may be issued thereon, to the
saeriff, by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment
had been taken in court; and the sheriff shall execute and" return the
same, as other executions; and in case of real estate, his proceedings
shall be examined and approved by the court as in other cases.
SEC. 521. The justice of the peace shall certify on the
transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment.
SEC. 522. If such judgment becomes dormant, or if any
of the parties thereto die before the same is satisfied, it may be revived
in the same manner as other judgments in the district court; and a certi
fied copy of the entry of such transcript may be filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court of any other county, and shall be a lien on the
real estate of the debtor in such county, from the date of the filing of
such copy.
Mart
SEC. 523. The defendant, in an action for the recovery
of money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaint
iff or his attorney an offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken
against him for the sum specified therein. If the plaintifff accept the
offer and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five
days after the offer was served, the offer, and an affidavit that the notice
of acceptance was delivered within the time limited, may be filed by the
plaintifff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the
offer, verified by affidavit; and in either case, the offer and accept
ance shall be noted in the journal, and judgment shall be rendered
accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not given in the period
limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain judg
ment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the
defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
SEC. 524. The making of an offer, pursuant to the
provisions contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a
continuance of an action or a postponement of the trial.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY.
SEC. 525. Parties to a question, which might be the
subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case contain
ing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a sub
mission of the same to any court, which would have jurisdiction if an
action had been brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the con
troversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith to determine the
rights of the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.
SEC. 526. The case, the submission, and a copy of the
judgment, shall constitute the record.
SEC. 527. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as if it had
been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.
(4059) § 528' SE°- 528' After an ^^ f°r the recovery of money
is brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judgment for
T>nvf nt fllo ammmt claimed, or part of the causes involved in the action;
whereupon, if the plaintifff, being present, refuse to accept such confession
of 'judgment in full of his demands against the defendant in the action,
or, having had such notice that the oSer would be made, of its amount,
and of the time of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, fail to
attend, and on the trial do not recover more than was so offered to be
confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred
after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admission of the
eause of action, or the amount to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be
given in evidence upon the trial.
PBOCEEDIXGS BY SURETIES.
SEC. 529. A surety may maintain an action against
his principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability for which
the surety is bound, after the same has become due.
SEC. 530. A surety may maintain an action against
his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for which
he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the grounds exist, upon
which, by the provisions of this code, an order may be made for arrest
and bail, or for an attachment.
SEC. 531. In such action the surety may obtain any
of the provisional remedies mentioned in articles nine, eleven and
twelve, upon the grounds and in the manner therein described.
amended, L. !.-•.;, ch. 138, 5 1 ; took effe
MOTIOKS AND ORDERS.
SEC. 532. A motion is an application for an order,
addressed to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or
proceeding, or one interested therein, or affected thereby.
White-Wing, 3 Kas. 876; Odell v. Sargent, 3 Kas. 80: Hottensteln v. Conrad, 9 KAB
Burnes, JlcCahon's R. 91; Smith v. Brown, 8 Kas. 606; Harrison v. Andrews, IS K
v. McMurtry, 20 Kas. 193.
SEC. 533. Several objects may be included in the same
motion, if they all grow out of, or are connected with, the action or
proceeding in which it is made.
(4065) §534. Sxc. 534. Where notice of a motion is required, it
must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the action
or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the court or judge before
whom it is to be made, the place where and the day on which it will be
heard, the nature and terms of the order or orders to be applied for; and
if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice shall state that fact,
and it shall be served a reasonable time before the hearing.
SEC. 535. Notices of motions, mentioned in this article,
may be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, the party or his
attorney, or by any other person, and the return of any such officer, or
affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of service; the service shall
be on the party, or his attorney of record, and in case there is more than
one party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon each party
or his attorney.
SEC. 536. The service of a notice shall be made as is
required by law for the service of a summons; and when served by an
officer, he shall be entitled to like fees.
SEC. 537. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
the files may be made with or without notice, as the court or judge
may direct.
SEC. 538. Every direction of a court or judge made, or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an order.
SEC. 539. Orders, made out of court,_ shall be forthwith
entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same man
ner as orders made in term.
K. P. R'y v. Thach
SEC. 540. A judgment rendered, or final order made,
by a justice of the peace, or any other tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction to the district court,
may ^e reversed, vacated or modified by the district court.
SEC. 541. A judgment rendered, or final order made,
^y ^ probate court, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the district court, for errors appearing on record.
3 Kas. 54.
SEC. 542. The supreme court may reverse, vacate or
modify a judgment of the district court, for errors appearing on the
record; and in the reversal of such judgment or order, may reverse,
vacate or modify any intermediate order involving the merits of the action,
or anv portion thereof. The supreme court may also reverse, vacate or
modify any of the following orders of the district court, or a judge
thereof: First, A final order. Second, An order that grants or refuses a
0ontirraan.ee; discharges, vacates or modifies a provisional remedy; or
grants, refuses, vacates or modifies an injunction; that grants or refuses
a new trial; or that confirms, or refuses to confirm, the report of a
referee; or that sustains or overrules a demurrer. Third, An order that
involves the merits of an action, or some part thereof.
5 Kas. 253; Field v. Klnnenr, 5 Kas. 233; Koculer v. Ball, 8 Kas. 180; Backus V.
Kcsbit v. llincs, 17 Kas. 3ia.
SEC. 543. An order affecting a substantial right in tn
actiOn, when such order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a
judgment, and an order affecting a substantial right, made in a special
proceeding, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment,
is a final order, which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as provided
• ti • i • -I '
in this article.
8 K.I-. 478; HOITOW v St
SEC. 514. The proceedings to obtain such reversal,
vacation or modification, shall be by petition, to be entitled petition in
error, filed in a court having power to make such reversal, vacation or
modification, setting forth the errors complained of; and thereupon a
summons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in the com-Fl
mencement of an action. A service on the attorney of record in the
original case, shall be sufficient. The summons shall notify the adverse
party that a petition in error has been filed in a certain case, naming it,
and shall be made returnable on or before the first day of the term of
the court, if issued in vacation, and ten days before the commencement
of the term. If issued in term time, or within ten days of the first
day of the term, it shall be returnable on a day therein named. If the
last publication or service of the summons shall be made ten days before
the end of the term, the case shall stand for hearing at that term.
SEC. ion
shall, upon the written precipe of the plaintifff in error or his attorney,
be issued by the clerk of the court in which the petition is filed, to the
sheriff of any county in which the defendant in error or his attorney of
record may be; and if the writ issue to a county other than that in which
the petition is filed, the sheriff thereof may return the same by mail to
the clerk, and shall be entitled to the same fees as if the same had been
returnable to the district court of the county in which such officer
resides. The defendant in error, or his attorney, may waive, in writing,
the issuing or service of the summons.
SEC. 546. The plaintifff in error shall file with his
petition a transcript of the proceedings, containing the final judgment
or order sought to be reversed, vacated or modified, or the original case
made, as hereinafter provided, or a copy thereof.
SEC. !. That in all actions hereafter instituted by
petition in error in the supreme court, the plaintifff in error shall attach
to and file with the petition in error the original case made, filed in the
court below, or a certified transcript of the record of said court; and in
no such action hereafter instituted in the supreme court shall any
charge, fees or costs be taxed or allowed for making any copy of any
paper filed in said action, except for one copy of said petition in error
and case made, or transcript, when such copy shall be ordered by the
court for its use, and the same has not been furnished by the plaintifff in
error thirty days before the first day of the term at which the case shall
stand for hearing, and no costs or fees shall be taxed for making a com
plete record in such case, except when the same shall be made by request
of a party to the suit and at his own costs.
SEC. 547. A party desiring to have any judgment or
order of the district court, or a judge thereof, reversed by the supreme
court, may make a case, containing a statement of so much of the proceedings
and evidence, or other matters in the action, as may be necessary to present the errors complained of to the supreme court..
Moore, 8 Kas. 144; Morgan v. Chapp
(4080) § 548. SKC. 548. The case so made, or a copy thereof, shall,
within three days after the judgment or order is entered, be served upon
the opposite party or his attorney, who may within three days thereafter
suggest amendments thereto in writing, and present the same to the
party making the case, or his attorney. The case and amendments
shall be submitted to the judge, who shall settle and sign the same, and
cause it to be attested by the clerk, and the seal of the court to bei
thereto attached. It shall then be filed with the papers in the case. A
certified copy thereof shall be filed with the petition in error. The
exceptions stated in a case made shall have the same effect as if they
had been reduced to writing, allowed and signed by the judge at the
time they were taken.
435; Lownsberry v. Rakcstrand, 14 Kas. 151 : Hodgden v. Ellsworth Co. 10 Kas.
Peyton, IS Kas. U16; Kshiukav. Cawkor, 16 Kas. t>5; Junction, etc. R'y Co. v.
218: Life lus. Co. v. Twining, 19 Kas. 806; Karr v. Hudson, 19 Kas. 475; Shn1C Kas. 477.
SEC. 549. The court or judge may, upon good cause
shown, extend the time for making a case, and the time within which
*lie case ma-v be served; and may also direct notice to be given of the
time when a case may be presented for settlement after the same has
been made and served, and amendments suggested, which when so made
and- presented shall be settled, certified and signed by the judge who
tried the cause; and the case so. settled and made shall thereupon be filed
w^h tne papers in the cause. And in all causes heretofore or hereafter
tried, when the term of office of the trial judge shall have expired, or
may hereafter expire before the time fixed for making or settling and
siyninS a casei ^ shall be his duty to certify, sign or settle the case in
all respects as if his term had not expired; and if no amendments are
suggested by the opposing party, as above provided, said case shall be
'taken as true and containing a full record of the cause, and certified
accordingly.
SEC. 550. Judges of probate courts, justices of the
peacGi an<J other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and the clerks of
every court of record, shall, upon request, and being paid the lawful fees
therefore, furnish an authenticated transcript of the proceedings contain
ing the judgment or final order in said court, or of a case made, to either
of the parties to the same, or to any person interested in procuring such
transcript.
SEC. 551. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment or final order rendered in the probate court or district
court, except as provided in the next section, and the fourth subdivision
of this section, shall operate to stay execution, unless the clerk of the
court in which the record of such judgment or final order shall be, shall
take a written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintifff in
error, to the adverse party, with one or more sufficient sureties, as fol
lows:
First. When the judgment or final order sought to be reversed directs
the payment of money, the written undertaking shall be in double the
amount of the judgment or order, to the effect that the plaintifff in error
will pay the condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment or final
order shall be affirmed, in whole or in part.
Second. When it directs the execution of a conveyance or other instru
ment, the undertaking shall be in such a sum as may be prescribed by
any court of record in this state, or any judge thereof, to the effect that
the plaintifff in error will abide the judgment, if the same shall be
affirmed, and pay the costs.
Third. When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real prop
erty, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any
court of record in this state, or any judge thereof, to the effect that dur
ing the possession of such property by the plaintifff in error, he will not
commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and if the judg
ment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
property, from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the pos
session, pursuant to the judgment, and all costs. When the judgment is
for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency aris
ing from the sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of
such deficiency.
Fourth. When it directs the assignment or delivery of documents,
they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the court in which the
Judgment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court, or
the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid,
to abide the judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be affirmed.
SEC. 552. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the
second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or other instrumerit may be executed and deposited with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment was rendered or order made, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court.
SEC. 553. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify
an order made in vacation shall operate to stay the effect of such order
until the party taking such proceeding shall execute to the adverse party
an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the clerk, that if the order be affirmed, in whole or in part, he will pay
the opposite party all damages that he may sustain by reason of such,
proceedings, and all costs in the supreme court.
SEC. 554. Before an undertaking shall operate to stay
execution of the judgment or order, a petition in error must be filed in
the appellate court, and the execution of the undertaking and the suffi
ciency of sureties must be approved by the court in which the judgment
was rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall
indorse said approval, signed by himself, upon the undertaking, and file
the same in his office, for the defendant in error.
SEC. 555. In an action arising on contract for the payment
of money only, notwithstanding the execution of the undertaking
in the last section mentioned, to stay proceedings, if the defendant in
error give adequate security to make restitution in case the judgment is
reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court below,
or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such
security must be an undertaking, executed to the plaintifff in error, by
at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be
reversed or modified, he will make full restitution to the plaintifff in
error, of the money by him received under the judgment.
SEC. 556. No proceeding for reversing, vacating pr
modifying judgments or final orders, shall be commenced unless within
three years after the rendition of the judgment or making of the final
order complained of; or in case the person entitled to such proceeding
be an infant, a person of unsound mind or imprisoned, within three
years as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.
SEC. 557. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment or final order of a justice of the peace shall operate as a
stay of execution, unless the clerk of the district court, in which such
proceeding is commenced, shall take a written undertaking to the defend
ant in error, executed on the part of the plaintifff in error, by one or
more sureties, to be approved by the clerk, to the effect:
First. When the judgment directs the payment of money, that the
plaintifff will pay all costs which have accrued, or may accrue in such
proceedings in error, together with the amount of any judgment that
may be rendered against the plaintifff in error, either upon and after the
affirmance thereof in the district court, or on the further trial of the case
in such court, after the judgment of the court below shall have been set
aside or reversed.
Second. When the judgment directs the delivery of the possession of
lands or tenements by the plaintifff in error, he will not commit or suffer
to be committed any waste thereon; and if the judgment be affirmed by
the court above, or if judgment be rendered against the plaintifff upon
the further trial of the case, after the judgment of the court below shall
have been set aside or reversed, that he will pay double the value of the
use and occupation of the property, from the date of the undertaking
until the delivery of the property, pursuant to the judgment, and all
damages and costs that may be awarded against him.
SEC. 558. Execution of the judgment or final order of
any judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this article, may
be stayed on such terms as may be prescribed by the court or a judge
thereof, in which the proceedings in error are pending.
SEC. 559. When a judgment or final order stall be
reversed, either in whole or in part, in the district court or supreme
cour^' the court reversing the same shall proceed to render such judgmerit
as the court below should have rendered, or remand the cause to
the court below for such judgment. The court reversing such judgment
or final order shall not issue execution in causes that are removed before
them ou error, on which they pronounce judgment as aforesaid, but shall
send a special mandate to the court below, as the case may require, to
ilward execution thereupon; and such court, to which such special mandate
is sent, shall proceed in such cases in the same manner as if such
judgment or final order had been rendered therein. In cases decided by
the supreme court, when the facts are agreed to by the parties, or found
by the court below, or a referee, and when it does not appear, by excep
tion or otherwise, that such findings are against the evidence in the case,
the supreme court shall send a mandate to the court below, directing it
to render such judgment in the premises as it should have rendered on
the facts agreed to or found in the case.
SEC. 560. It shall be the duty of the judges of the
x i i i m -n n • -i p n
supreme court to prepare, and nle with the papers in each case, lull notes
of the opinion of the court upon the questions of law arising in the
case, within sixty days after the decision of the same; and the opinion
so filed shall be treated as a part of the record in the case, but no costs
shall be charged therefore, except for copies thereof ordered by a party;
and no mandate shall be sent to the court below, until the opinion pro
vided for \>y this section has been filed.
I4093) §»61« SEC. 561. A syllabus of the points of law decided in
any case in the supreme court shall be stated, in writing, by the judge
delivering the opinion of the court, and filed with the papers of the case,
which shall be confined to points of law arising from the facts in the
case, that have been determined by the court; and the syllabus shall be
submitted to the judges concurring therein, for revisal before filing
thereof, and it shall be' filed with the papers without alteration, unless
by consent of the judges concurring therein; and a copy of such sylla
bus shall, in all cases, be sent to the court below, by the clerk of the
supreme court, with the mandate provided for by section five hundred
and fifty-nine of this act. .
SEC. 562. When a judgment or final order is reversed,
the plaintifff in error shall recover his costs, including the costs of the
transcript of the proceedings, or case made, filed with the petition in
error; and when reversed in part and affirmed in part, costs shall be
equally divided between the parties.
SEC. 563. A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk
shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented and
acted upon in the court in which the mistake, neglect or omission
occurred.
SEC. 56i. Writs of error and certiorari, to reverse,
vacate or modify judgments or final orders, in civil cases, are abolished;
but courts shall have the same power to compel complete and perfect
transcripts of the proceedings containing the judgment or final order
sought to be reversed, to be furnished, as they heretofore had under
writs of error and certiorari.
(i097) § «65. SEC. 565. If the judgment of a justice of the peace,
taken on error, as herein provided, to the district court, be affirmed, it
shall be the duty of such court to render judgment against the plaintifff
in error for the costs of suit, and award execution therefore; and the
court shall thereupon order the clerk to certify its decision in the prem
ises to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if
such proceedings in error had not been taken ; or such court may award
execution to carry into effect the judgment of such justice, in the same
manner as if such judgment had been rendered in the district court.
SEC. 566. When the proceedings of a justice of the
peace are taken in error to the district court, in the manner aforesaid,
and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set aside, the court
shall render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that have occurred
up to that time, in favor of the plaintifff in error, and award execution
therefore; and the same shall be retained by the court for trial and final
judgment, as in cases of appeal.
SEC. 567. That when an order, discharging or modifying
an attachment or a temporary injunction, shall be made in any case,
and the party who obtained such attachment or injunction shall except
to such order, for the purpose of having the same reviewed in the supreme
court upon petition in error, the court or judge granting said order shall,
upon application of the proper party, fix the time, not exceeding thirty
days from the discharge or modification of said attachment or injunction,
•within which such petition in error shall be filed; and during such time
the execution of said order shall be suspended, and until the decision of
the case upon the petition in error, if the same shall be filed; and the
undertaking, given upon the allowance of the attachment, shall be and
remain in force until the order of discharge shall take effect. If such
petition in error shall not be filed within the time limited, the order of
discharge shall become operative and be carried into effect; and the cer
tificate of the clerk of the supreme court that such petition is or is not
filed, shall be evidence thereof.
PBOCEEDINGS TO EEVERSE, VACATE OK MODIFY JUDGMENTS AND OEDEES 1ST
THE COURTS IN WHICH THEY ABE RENDERED.
SEC. 568. The district court shall have power to vacate
or modify its own judgments or orders, at or after the term at which
such judgment or order was made:
First. By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time and in
the manner prescribed in section three hundred and ten.
Second. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants
constructively summoned, as provided in section seventy-two.
Third. For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or irregularity
in obtaining a judgment or order.
Fourth. For fraud, practiced by the successful party, in obtaining the
judgment or order.
Fifth. For erroneous proceedings against an infant, or a person of
tmsound mind, where the condition of such defendant docs not appear
in the record, nor the error in the proceedings.
Sixth. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the
action.
Seventh. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the
party from prosecuting or defending.
Eighth. I'or errors in a judgment, shown by an infant in twelve
months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section four hundred
and thirteen.
Ninth. For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney for more
than was due to the plaintifff, when the defendant was not summoned or
otherwise legally notified of the time and place of taking such judg
ment.
SEC. 569. The proceedings to correct mistakes or
omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order,
shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his
attorney in the action. The motion to vacate a judgment, because of
its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial, can be made only
in the first three days of the succeeding term.
SEC. 570. The proceedings to vacate or modify the
judgment or order, on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions four, five,
six, seven, eight and nine, of section five hundred and sixty-eight, shall
be by petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order,
the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action, if the
P^y aPplymg was defendant. On such petition, a summons shall issue
and be served as in the commencement of an action.
SEC. 571. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order before trying or decid
ing upon the validity of the defense or cause of action.
SEC. 572. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion
or petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action
on which the judgment is rendered; or, if the plaintifff seeks its vacation,
that there is a valid cause of action; and where a judgment is modified,
all liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modi
fied judgment.
SEC. 573- Thc Party seeking to vacate or modify a
judgment or order, may obtain an order suspending proceedings on the
whole or part thereof; which order may be granted by the court, or any
judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit, or by exhi
bition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or
order vacated or modified. On the granting of any sucn order, the
court, or judge, may require the party obtaining any such order to
enter into an undertaking to the adverse party to pay all damages that
may be caused by granting of the same.
SEC. 574. When the judgment was rendered before
the action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted, as provided in
the last section, although no valid defense to the action is shown; and
the court shall make such orders, concerning the execution to be issued
on the judgment, as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay
he would have had if the judgment had been rendered at the proper
time.
SEC. 575. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, tor the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five and seven, of section five hundred and sixty-eight, must be commenced within two years
after the judgment was rendered or order made, unless the party entitled
thereto be an infant, or person of unsound mind, and then within two
years a^er removal of such disability. Proceedings for the causes
mentioned in subdivisions three and six of the same section, shall be
within three years, and in subdivision nine, within one year after the
'defendant has notice of the judgment. A void judgment may be
vacated at any time, on motion of a party, or any person aifected
thereby.
SEC. 576. The provisions of this article, subsequent to section five hundred and sixty-seven, shall apply to all the courts of
record of the state, so far as the same may be applicable to the judg
ments or final orders of such courts.
SEC. 577. Executors, administrators and guardians
who have given bond in this state, with sureties, according to law, are
not required to give an undertaking on appeal or proceedings in error.
SEC. 578. If the district court affirm a judgment on
pe£-j.jOI1 fa error) it snari aiso render judgment against the plaintifff in
error, for five per cent, upon the amount due from nim to the defendant
in error, unless the court shall enter upon its minutes that there was
reasonable grounds for the proceedings in error.
SEC. 579. A summons in error shall not be issued in
any case in which there is, upon the minutes of the court, or among the
files of the case, a waiver ot error, by the party, or his attorney, en1deavoring
to commence such proceedings, unless the court in which the
petition is to be filed, or a judge thereof, shall indorse on the same per
mission to issue such summons.
SEC. 580. Cases pending in appellate courts, or writs
of error, or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be conducted to
final judgment as if it had not been adopted, and the liens of judgments
and decrees rendered when it takes effect shall be preserved. They
shall be enforced as provided in section seven hundred and twenty-seven
[twenty-six]; but process already issued at such time shall be carried on
and executed.
ARTICLE 23.— COSTS.
SECTION.
680 a. Security for costs to be given in all
cases; when not required; deposit
in lieu of bond, etc.
680 b. Affidavit provided for in preceding
section.
580 e. False swearing, perjury.
580 d. Certain section repealed.
581. Repealed.
582. Action to be dismissed when secu
rity not given.
583. Security when plaintifff becomes
non-resident, after action brought.
584. Defendant may move for additional
security, when.
685. Judgment against surety for costs.
£86. Informer, under penal statute, shall
pay costs, when.
SECTION.
687. Defendant disclaiming title shall
recover costs, when.
588. Costs of motions and amendments,
how paid.
589. When defendant to pay.
590. When plaintifff to pay.
591. May be divided between parties,
when.
592. Costs in actions against several
parties to same obligation.
593. Summons issued to another county
may be returned by mail; fees of
sheriff.
593 a. Clerks to tax costs.
5936. Repeal.
SEC. !. In any civil action hereafter brought in
any district court of this state, before the clerk shall issue summons,
there shall be filed in his office, by or on behalf of the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
a bond, to be approved by the clerk, conditioned that the plaintifff
or plaintifffs will pay all costs that may accrue in said action in case he
or they shall be adjudged to pay them, or in case the same cannot be
collected from the defendant or defendants if judgment be obtained
against him, her, or them, that the plaintifff or plaintifffs will pay the
costs made by such plaintifff or plaintifffs: Provided, That in any case
where the plaintifff or plaintifffs having a just cause of action against the
defendant or defendants, by reason of his, her, or their poverty, is or are
unable to give such security for costs, on affidavit of the plaintifff or
plaintifffs made before the clerk that such is the fact, no bond shall be re
quired : Provided further, That in case [of] non-resident plaintifff or plaint
iffs, such plaintifff or plaintifffs may deposit with the clerk of the district
court such sum or sums as in the opinion of said clerk will be sufficient
to cover all costs in case such non-resident plaintifff or plaintifffs become
liable to pay the same, and in the case of resident plaintifff or plaintifffs,
such plaintifff or plaintifffs may deposit the sum of fifteen dollars, which
sum shall be in lieu of all security for costs as herein and otherwise pro
vided.
SEC. 2. The affidavit provided for in the preceding section shall be in the form following, and attached to the petition, viz:
State of Kansas, County, , in the district court of said
county: I (or we) do solemnly swear that the cause of action set forth in
the petition hereto prefixed is just, and I (or we) do further swear that by
reason of my (or our) poverty, I (or we) am (or are) unable to give secu
rity for costs.
SEC. 3. Any person or persons willfully swearing
falsely in making the affidavit aforesaid, shall, on conviction, be adjudged
guilty of perjury, and punished as the law prescribes.
SEC. ion five hundred and eighty-one of chapter
eighty, general statutes of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and all
acts and parts of acts inconsistent with this act, is [are] hereby repealed.
SEC. 581. Repealed, L. 1875, ch. 121, § 4; this chapter,
§ 580 d.
§3; took effe
SEC. rity for costs v
required by the last section ' and has not been given, shall be dismissed
°n the motion and notice by defendant, at any proper time before
judgment, unless in a reasonable time, to be allowed by the court, such
security for costs be given.
(*H9) § 583. SEC. 583. If the plaintifff in an action, after its commenceinent, becomes a non-resident of the county in which it is brought,
he shall give security for cpste, in the manner and under the restrictions
provided in the two preceding sections.
SEC. rity for costs has
1 given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security on
the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied
that the surety has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, the action
may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security be given by the plaintifff.
SEC. 585. After final judgment has been rendered in
an action in which security for costs has been given, as required by this article, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person hav
ing a right to such costs, or any part thereof, after ten days' notice of
such motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant or
his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or
administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged against the plaintifff, or
so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such
judgment as in other cases, for the use and benefit of the persons entitled
to such costs.
SEC. 586- If any informer, under a penal statute, to
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall dis
miss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall pay all costs
accruing on such suit or prosecution, unless he be an officer, whose duty
it is to commence the same.
SEC. 587. Where defendants disclaim having any title or interest in land or other property, the subject matter of the
action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special reasons the court
decide otherwise.
12 Has. K: 10 Kas. ^.3; Whitford v. Horn, 18 Kas. 457.
SEC. 588. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the
cos^s of motions? continuances, amendments and the like, shall be taxed
and paid as the court, in its discretion, may direct.
381; Beckett v. Turner, 19 Kas. 529.
SEC. 589. Where it is not otherwise provided by this
aQ(j Q^gr statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff, upon
a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recovery of money only, or for
the recovery of specific, real or personal property.
I4126) §590. SEC. 590. Costs _ shall be allowed of course to any
defendant, upon a judgment in his favor, in the actions mentioned in
the last section.
SEC. 591. In other actions, the court may award and
tax costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the same or
adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right and equitable.
448; Eraporia v. Whittle*ey, 80 Kas. 18.
SEC. 592. Where several actions are brought on one
bill of exchange, promissory note or other obligation, or instrument in
writing, against several parties who might have been joined as defend
ants in the same action, as allowed by section thirty-nine, no costs shall
be recovered by the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, if the par
ties proceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement
of the previous action, openly within the state.
(&&>>) §593. SEC. 593. When a summonses issued to another
county than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it may
be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to the same fees as
if the summons had issued in the county of which he is sheriff.
SEC. 15. The several clerks of the district court shall
tax the costs in each case, and insert the same in their respective judg
ments, subject to relaxation by the court, on motion of any person
interested.
1671, ch. 115, § 1 ; took effect March Ifi, 1S71.
SEC. ions sixteen,
seventeen, eighteen, nineteen and twenty of this act,* to which this
is amendatory, are Jiereby repealed.
* L. 1870, ch. 87.
ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR CASES.
ARTICLE 24.- ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL PROPERTY.
SECTION.
694. The parties.
695. The petition.
596. The answer.
697. Petition by tenant in
against co-tenant.
common,
Llnton v. Ilc
SECTION.
598. Recovery, where right terminates
during pendency of action.
599. Party may demand another trial,
when.
600. No further trial unless for cause
shown, or on reversal of judgment.
SEC. 594. An action may be brought by any person, in
possession, by himself or tenant, of real property, against any person.
•who claims an estate, or interest therein, adverse to him, for the purpose
of determining such adverse estate or interest.
59; Brenner v. Bigelow, 8 Kas. 499; O'Brien v. C'rcitz, 10 Kas. 203; Eaton v. Gi
Wood v. M. K. & T. li'y Co. 11 Kas. 323; Douglass v. Nuzum, 10 Kas. 518; Entre
16 Kas. 551.
SEC. 595. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it shall be sufficient if the plaintifff state, in his petition, that he
has a legal or equitable estate therein, and is en titled to the possession
thereof, describing the same, as required by section one hundred and
twenty-seven, and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the
possession. It shall not be necessary to state how the plaintifff's estate
or ownership is derived.
liS. Answer, Bancroft v. Chambers. 10 Kaa. 364. Paramount title, State v. Strin
2U3: O'Bik'ii v. \Vcthi:rcll, 1-1 Kas. 0*2. Title bond, Courtney v. Wooclworth, 9 Kas
v. Dowcll, 5 Kas. 37S. Disclaimer, Kas. P. K'y Co. v. McBritncy. 10 Kas. 415. Kec
KaiTerty, 13 Kas. 9 Condition jubsequcut, Piper v. H'y Co. 14'Kas. 574; O'Brien
Kas. 616. Proof, Stout v. Hyatt, 13 Kas. aw. Title. Simpson v. Boring, 16 Kas. rf
Cardell v. McNay, 17 Kas. 435. Defense, Hall v. Dodge, 18 Kas. 279.
SEC. 596. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the
defendant, in his answer, deny, generally, the title alleged in the petition,
or that he withholds the possession, as the case may be; but if he deny
the title of the plaintifff, possession, by the defendant, shall be taken as
admitted. Where he does not defend for the whole premises, the answer
shall describe the particular part for which defense is made.
SEC. 597. In an action, by a tenant in common of real
L • i L 11 i • L-O> L • TIM- i 11property, against a co-tenant, the plaintifff must, in addition to what is
required in section five hundred and ninety-five, state, in his petition,
that the defendant cither denied the plaintifff's right, or did some act
amounting to such denial.
SEC. 598. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action
•was commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the
pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to
the fact, and the plaintifff may recover for withholding the property.
SEC. 599. In an action for the recovery of real prop,x .i' ° i • i. -i L • 11. Lerty, the party against whom judgment is rendered may, at any time
during the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another
trial, by notice on the journal, and thereupon the judgment shall be
vacated, and the action shall stand for trial at the next term.
SEC. 600. No further trial can be had in such action,
unless, for good cause shown, anew trial be granted, or the judgment be
reversed, as in other actions.
District, SO ivu. 862.
ARTICLE 25.—OCCUPYING CLAIMANTS.
SECTION.
601. In what cases occupying claimants of
land shall not be evicted until paid
for improvements, etc.
602. Persons occupying1 under tax title
shall not bo evicted until paid for
improvements.
603. Entry on journal, of claim for im
provements; jury to be drawn.
604. Duty of jury.
605. Talesman may be summoned.
606. Return of jury; court may set aside
and order new valuation.
607. Judgment and execution in favor of
plaintifff; action for mesne profits
barred.
608. Adverse claimant may tender deed,
or pay the sum assessed against
him by the jury.
SECTION.
609. Writ of possession shall issue npon
payment of sum reported in favOr
of occupying claimant.
610- If occupying claimant refuse to pay
value of land without improve
ments, writ of possession may
issue.
611. Occupying claimant not to be evicted,
unless, etc., occupant may obtain
decree for title, when.
612. Plaintiff entitled to execution when.
613. When land sold by executor, etc., is
afterwards recovered bv person
originally liable, plaintifff' not entitled to possession until purchase
money refunded, etc.
SEC. 601. In all cases any occupying claimant being
in quiet possession of any lands or tenements for which such person can
g^Q^y a plain and connected title in law or equity, derived from the
records of some public office, or being in quiet possession of and holdin» *ne same by deed, devise, descent, contract, bond, or agreement from
and under any person claiming title as aforesaid derived from the records
of some public office, or by deed duly authenticated and recorded, or
being in quiet possession of and holding the same under sale on execution
or order of sale against any person claiming title as aforesaid, derived
^rom *ne rec°r<l8 of some public office, or by deed, duly authenticated and
recorded; or being in possession of and holding any land under any sale for
taxes authorized oy the laws of this state, or the laws of the territory of
Kansas; or any person or persons who have made a bonafide settlement
, . • l 1." 1. £ l. jl J.-1I c 11.
and improvement which he, she or they still occupy upon any or the
Indian lands lying in this state, or any lands held in trust for the benefit
of any Indian tribe at the date of such settlement, or which may have
heretofore been Indian lands, and which were vacant and unoccupied at
the date of such settlement, and where the records of tha county show
no title or claim of any person or persons to said lands at the time of
such settlement; or any person in quiet possession of any land claiming title thereto, and holding the same under a sale and conveyance made by
executors, administrators, or guardians, or by any other person or per
sons in pursuance of any order of court or decree in chancery where
lands are or have been directed to be sold and the purchasers thereof have
obtained title to and possession of the same without any fraud or collu
sion on his, her or their part, shall not be evicted or thrown out of pos
session by any person or persons who shall set up and prove an adverse
and better title to said lands until said occupying claimant, his, her or
their heirs, shall be paid the full value of all lasting and valuable im
provements made on said lands by such occupying claimant, or by the
person or persons under whom he, she or they may hold the same pre
vious to receiving actual notice by the commencement of suit on such
adverse claim by which eviction may be effected.
SEC. 602. The title by which the successful claimant
guccee(js against; the occupying claimant, in all cases of lands sold for
taxesi ^y virtue of any of the laws of this state or of the territory of
Kansas, shall be considered an adverse and better title, under the provisions of this article, whether it be the title under which the taxes were
due, and for which said land was sold, or any other title or claim whatever;
and the occupying claimant holding possession of land sold for
taxes, as aforesaid, having the deed of a collector of taxes or a county
clerk for such sale for taxes, or a certificate of sale of said land from a
collector of taxes or a county treasurer, or shall claim under the person or
persons who hold such deed or certificate, or any other title or claim
whatever, shall be considered as having sufficient title to said land to
demand the value of improvements under the provisions of this article.
SEC. COS. The court rendering judgment in any case
provided for by this act [article], against the occupying claimant, shall,
at the request of either party, cause a journal entry thereof to be
made; and the sheriff and clerk of the court, when thereafter required by
either party, shall meet and draw from the box a jury of twelve men, of
the jurymen returned to serve as such for the proper county, in the same
manner as the sheriff and county clerk are 'required by law to draw a
jury in other cases; and immediately thereupon, the clerk shall issue an
order to the sheriff, under the seal of the court, setting forth the name
of the jury, and the duty to be performed under this article.
SEC. 604. The jury drawn and named in said order shall
immediately, on being notified by the sheriff, proceed to view the prem
ises in question, and then and there, on oath or affirmation, to be admin
istered by any competent authority, assess the value of all lasting and
valuable improvements made, as aforesaid, on the lands in question, pre
vious to the party receiving actual notice, as aforesaid, of such adverse
claim; and shall also assess the damages, if any, which said land may
have sustained by waste, together with the net annual value of the rents
and profits which the occupying claimant may have received from the
same, after having received notice of the plaintifff's title, by service of a
summons, and deduct the amount thereof from the estimated value of
such lasting and valuable improvements; and said jury shall also assess
the value of the land in question, at the time of rendering judgment
as aforesaid, without the improvements made thereon, or damages
sustained by waste, as aforesaid.
SEC. 605. In case any one or more of the jury named
in said order shall be absent from the county, of kin to either party, or,
from any other cause, disqualified or unable to serve upon such jury, the
sheriff shall have power to summon talesmen, as in other cases, who
shall be qualified and serve on such jury in the same manner as if origi
nally drawn and named in said order.
SEC. 606. The jury shall sign and seal their respective
assessments and valuations aforesaid, and deposit the same with the clerk
of the court by whom they were appointed, before the first day of the
next term, of said court after said order is made; and if either party shall
think himself or herself aggrieved by any such assessment or valuation
aforesaid, he or she may apply to the court, at the term, to which the
proceedings are returned, and said court may, upon good cause shown, set
aside such assessment or valuation, and order a new valuation, and ap
point another jury, as hereinbefore provided, who shall proceed in the
same manner as hereinbefore directed.
SEC. 607. If the jurors shall report a sum in favor of
11 v i • flff l • i-n> • i L* f xl /• i i
the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said action, for the recovery of real property
on the assessment and valuation of the valuable and lasting improvements, and the assessment of damages for waste, and the net annual
value of the rents and .profits, the court shall render a judgment therefore
without pleadings, and issue execution thereon as in other cases; or if
no excess be reported in favor of said plaintifff or plaintifffs, then, and in
either case, the said plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be thereby barred from
having or maintaining any action for mesne profits.
SEC. 608. That if the jurors empaneled under the pro• \ ' Pu i i i it L i JT_ • • t* tt
visions of such act shall report a sum under the provisions 01 the same
in favor of the occupying claimant or claimants, or the assessment of the
valuation of the valuable and lasting improvements, deducting the damaSes to said land, as is provided in said act, the court shall render judgmen
t in favor of the said occupying claimant or claimants for the sum
Qr sumg sf) assessed by the said jurors as aforesaid; and no writ or process
:'or ^e eviction of the said claimant or claimants shall be issued, until
the said judgment shall be paid.
SEC. 609. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or the
guardian of such heirs, they being minors, shall elect to pay, and do pay
to, the occupying claimant, the sum so reported in his favor by the
jurors, within such reasonable time as the court may have allowed for
the payment thereof, then a writ of possession shall issue in favor of said
successful claimant, his heirs, or the guardians of such heirs.
SEC. 610. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or the
guardians of said heirs, they being minors, shall elect to receive the
value without improvements so as aforesaid assessed, to be paid by the
occupying claimant within such reasonable time as the court may allow,
and shall tender a general warranty deed of the land in question, conveying
such adverse or better title within said time allowed by the court
for the payment of the money in this section mentioned, and the occu
pying claimant shall refuse or neglect to pay said money (the value of
the land without the improvements) to the successful claimant, his heirs
or their guardians, within the time limited as aforesaid, then a writ of
possession shall be issued in favor of said successful claimant, his heirs
or their guardians.
. (4149) §611. SEC. 611. The occupying claimant or his heirs shall
in no case be evicted from the possession of such land, unless, as is provided
in the two preceding sections, where an application is made for
the value of improvements under this law; and in all cases, where the
occupying claimant or claimants, or his or their heirs, shall have paid
into court the value of the lands in question, without improvements,
within the time allowed by the court (when an election has been made by
the successful claimant or claimants, his or their heirs or guardians as
aforesaid, to surrender any tract of land under the provisions of this act),
such occupant or his heirs may, at any time after such payment shall
have been made, file his, her or their petition in the court where such
judgment of eviction was obtained, and obtain a decree for the title of
such land, if the same has not been previously conveyed to such occu
pant as aforesaid.
SEC. 612. The plaintifff shall be entitled to an execu
tion for the possession of his property, in accordance with the provisions
of this article, but not otherwise.
SEC. 613. Whenever any land, sold by an executor,
administrator, guardian, sheriff or commissioner of court, is afterwards
recovered in the proper action by any person originally liable, or in whose
hands the land would be liable to pay the demand or judgment for
which, or for whose benefit the land was sold, or any one claiming
under such person, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to the possession of
the land until he has refunded the purchase money, with interest, deduct
ing therefrom the value of the use, rents and profits, and injury done by
waste and cultivation, to be assessed under the provisions of this article.
SEC. 614. When the object of the action is to effect a
partition of real property, the petition must describe the property and
the respective interests of the owners thereof, if known.
SEC. 615. If the number of shares or interests is
known, but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent or doubt
ful, these facts must be set forth in the petition with reasonable
certainty.
SEC. 616. Creditors having a specific or general lien
upon all or any portion of the property, may be made parties.
SEC. 617. The answers of the defendants must state,
among other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests.
They may also deny the interests of any of the plaintifffs, or any of the
defendants.
SEC. 618. After the interests of all the parties shall
have been ascertained, the court shall make an order specifying the in
terests of the respective parties, and directing partition to be made
accordingly.
SEC. 619. Upon making such order, the court shall
appoint three commissioners to make partition into the requisite number
of shares.
SEC. 620. For good and sufficient reasons appearing
to the court, the commissioners may be directed to allot particular por
tions to any one of the parties.
SEC. 621. Before entering upon their duties, such com• • 1 n i i i i •! nil I n MI /» n missioners shall take and subscribe an oath that they will perform their
duties faithfully and impartially, to the best of their ability.
SEC. 622. The commissioners shall make partition of
the property among |the parties according to their respective interests,
if such partition can be made without manifest injury. But if such par
tition cannot be made, the commissioners shall make a valuation and
appraisement of the property. They shall make a report of their pro
ceedings to the court, forthwith.
SEC. 623. Any party may file exceptions to the report
of the commissioners, and the court may, for good cause, set aside such
report, and appoint other commissioners, or refer the matter back to the
same commissioners.
SEC. 624. If partition be made by the commissioners,
and no exceptions are filed to their report, the court shall render judgment that such partition be and remain firm and effectual forever.
SEC. 625. If partition cannot be made, and the property shall have been valued and appraised, any one or more of the parties
may elect to take the same at the appraisement, and the court may
direct the sheriff to make a deed to the party or parties so electing, on
payment to the other parties of their proportion of the appraised value.
SEC. 626. If none of the parties elect to take the property
at the valuation, or if several of the parties elect to take the same
IS; Squires v. C
Scarborough v. Smi
at the valuation, in opposition to each other, the court shall make an
order directing the sheriff of the county to sell the same, in the same
manner as in sales of real estate on execution; but no sale shall be made
at less than two-thirds of the valuation placed upon the property by the
commissioners.
(4^65) § 627' SKC' 627' The sheriff sha11 make return of tis P™"
ceedings to the court, and if the sale made by him shall be approved by
the court, the sheriff shall execute a deed to the purchaser, upon the
payment of the purchase money, or securing the same to be paid, in such
manner as the court shall direct.
SEC. 628. The court making partition shall tax the
costs, attorneys1 fees and expenses which may accrue in the action, and
apportion the same among the parties, according to their respective
interests, and may award execution therefore, as in other cases.
SEC. 629. The court shall have full power to make
any order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this article, that may
be necessary to make a just and equitable partition between the parties,
and to secure their respective interests.
SECTIOS1.
ARTICLE 27.— LIENS OF MECHANICS AND OTHERS.
630. Lien for labor and materials.
631. Sub-contract; statement to be filed;
liability of owner; payment by
owner.
632. Verified statement to be filed.
633. Lien may be enforced by civil action.
634. Who made parties, etc.; defense.
SECTION.
635. Actions consolidated.
63G. Sale of real estate shall be ordered,
when.
637. Payments, how made when proceeds
insufficient.
638. Repealed.
633 a. Certain actions repealed.
SEC. 1. Any mechanic or other person who shall,
under contract with the owner of any tract or piece of land, his agent
or trustee, or under contract with the husband or wife of such owner,
perform labor or furnish material for erecting, altering or repairing any
building or the appurtenances of any building, or any erection or improvement,
or shall furnish or perform labor m putting up any fixtures
oi" machinery in or attachment to any such building or improvement, or
plant and grow any trees, vines and plants or hedge or hedge fence, or
shall build a stone fence, or shall perform labor or furnish material for
-til' , • 111 1 1 11 f •
erecting, altering or repairing any fence on any tract or piece of land,
shall have a lien upon the whole tract or piece of land, the buildings
and appurtenances in the manner herein provided, for the amount due
^° n"n *or sucn tabor or material, fixtures or machinery. Such liens
shall be preferred to all other liens and encumbrances which may attach
^° or upon such lands, buildings or improvements or either of them,
subsequent to the commencement of such building, the furnishing or
putting up of such fixtures or machinery, or planting and growing of
trees, vines or plants, or hedge or hedge fence or stone fence, or
the making of any such repairs or improvement; and if any promissory
n°te, bearing not exceeding twelve per cent, interest per annum, shall
have been taken for any such labor or material, it shall be sufficient to file a copy of such note, with a sworn statement, that said note
or any Pa.r'; thereof, was given for such labor or material used in the
construction of any such building or improvement, in the office of the
district clerk, and it shall be necessary to file a list of items used, and
the lien shall be for the principal and interest aforesaid, as specified in
said note.
17 Has. 109; School District T. Conrad, ITEae. S22; material man, Delahay v.
2ti3.
SEC. 2. Any person who shall furnish any such material
or perform such labor under a sub-contract with the contractor,
wishing to avail himself of the act, shall file a statement of the amount
conj;racj;or) for j^g iai30r performed or the material,
fixtures or machinery furnished, and a description of the property upon
[to] which the same were done [applied] within sixty days after the completion of the buildings, improvements or repairs or the furnishing or
putting up of fixtures or machinery, or the performing of such labor, in
a book kept by the clerk of the district court for that purpose,
,
nish a copy thereof to the owner or agent of the premises, which book
shall be ruled off into separate columns with heads as follows : When filed,
name of contractor, name of claimant, amount claimed and description
of property, and the proper entry shall be made under each of such
heads, and the district clerk shall be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents
for making such entries; and if the contractor does not pay such person
or sub-contractor for the same, such sub-contractor or person shall have
a lien for the amount due, for such labor or material, on such lot or lots
from the same time, and to the same extent, and in the same manner, and
to the same extent as such original contractor: Provided, That the
owner shall not be liable to such sub-contractor for any greater amount
than he contracted to pay the original contractor, but the risk of all
payments made to the original contractor shall be upon the owner until
the expiration of the sixty days hereinbefore specified; and no owner
shall be liable to an action by the contractor until the expiration of said
sixty days, and such owner may pay such sub-contractor or person the
amount due him from such contractor for such labor and material, and
the amount so paid shall be held and deemed a payment of said amount
to the principal contractor.
SEC. 3. Any person claiming a lien as aforesaid, shall
file in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county in which
the land is situated, a statement setting forth the amount claimed and^
the items thereof as nearly as practicable, the name of the owner, the
name of the contractor, the name of the claimant, and a description of
the property subject to the lien verified by affidavit. Such statement
shall be filed within four months after the completion of the building,
improvements or repairs, or the furnishing or putting up of fixtures or}
machinery, or the planting of such hedge or the building of such fence,
or the furnishing of such material or labor for the building of such
fence. The clerk of the district court shall immediately upon the
receipt of such statement, enter a minute of the same in a book kept
for that purpose, to be called the mechanics' lien book. Such docket
shall be ruled off into separate columns with heads as follows: When.
filed, name of owner, name of contractor, name of claimant, amount
claimed, description of property and remarks; and the proper entry
shall be made under each of such heads. The costs of filing and entering
such statement shall be recovered as part of the costs of enforcing
the lien.
SEC. 4. Such lien may be enforced by civil action in
the district court of the county in which the land is situated, which
action shall be brought within one year from the time any new building,
erection or improvement is completed, or in case of repairs made, or fixtures or machinery put up or furnished for any building or improvement,
and completed within one year from the time such repairs are
completed, or the fixtures or machinery put up or furnished; and in case
a promissory note is given, no lien shall be enforced thereon unless
action be commenced within one year from the maturity of the said note.
The practice, pleadings and proceedings in such action shall be in conformity with the rules prescribed by the code of civil procedure as far as
iL J 1-11
tne same are applicable.
SEC. 5. In such action all persons whose liens are
filed as herein provided, and other encumbrancers, shall be made parties,
and issues shall be made and trials had as in other cases. Where such
action is brought by a sub-contractor, or other person not the original
contractor, such original contractor shall be made a party defendant, and
shall, at his own expense, defend against the claim of every sub-contractor,
or other person claiming a lien under this act; and if he fails to
ma^e such defense, the owner may make the same at the expense of such
contractor; and until all such claims, costs and expenses are finally
adjudicated, and defeated or satisfied, the owner shall be entitled to retain
from the contractor the amount thereof, and such costs and expenses as
i i_ • i i '
he may be required to pay.
SEC. 6. If several actions, brought to enforce the hens
herein provided for, are pending at the same time, the court may order
them to be consolidated.
March 23, 1871. Original section 635 was repealed by ( 10 of laid act; this ch., ( 638 a;
L. 1870, ch. 87, $tt>.
SEC. 7. In all cases where judgments have been or
may hereafter be rendered in favor of any person or persons, to enforce
a lien under the provisions of this act, the real estate or other property
snall be ordered to be sold as in other cases of sales of real estate, suck
gale to be without prejudice to the rights of any prior encumbrancer,
, i r J , .. , , u
owner, or other person not parties to the action.
SEC. 8. If the proceeds of the sale be insufficient to
pay all the claimants, then the court shall order them to be paid in proportion
to the amount due each.
March 23. 1671. Original section 637 repealed by $ 10 of said act; this ch. 638 a.
SEC. 638. Repealed, L. 1871, ch. 97, §10; this chap
ter, § 638 a. Section nine of the said act of 1871 was repealed by L.
1872, ch. 141, § 5.
SEC. ions 630 to 638 inclusive (being article
27). of the code of civil procedure, [known as] chapter 80 of the general
statutes of 1868, and sections 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 of chapter 87 of
the laws of 1870, are hereby repealed.
ARTICLE 28.— DIVORCE AND ALIMONY.
SECTION.
639. Causes for granting divorce.
640. Plaintiff to be resident, how long.
641. Petition to be verified; issue and ser
vice of summons.
642. Answer of defendant.
643. When court may refuse divorce; may
make what order.
644. Attachment to restrain disposition of
property; expenses of suit.
645. Upon granting divorce, court shall
make provision for custody and
support of minor children.
SECTION.
646. Court may adjudge alimony to the
wife, when; how paid; property
rights.
647. Divorce, a dissolution of inarriajre
contract; claim to property barred.
648. Marriage void for incapacity of parties.
649. Alimony may be obtained without
divorce; defense of husband.
650. What shall be admitted in evidence :
no divorce to be granted without
proof.
651. Wife shall be deemed resident of tiis
state, when.
651 a. Parties may testify.
SEC. 639. The district court may grant a divorce for
any of the following causes:
First, When either of the parties had a former husband or wife living
at the time of the subsequent marriage. Second, Abandonment for one
year- Third, Adultery. Fourth, Impotency. Fifth, When the wife,
at the time of the marriage, was pregnant by another than her husband.
SLrth, Extreme cruelty. Seventh. Fraudulent contract. Eighth, Habit
ual drunkenness. Ninth, Gross neglect of duty. Tenth, The conviction
of a felony, and imprisonment in the penitentiary therefore, subsequent
to the marriage.
SEC. 640. The plaintifff in an action for divorce must
\* / o ... , f , ,, . , - . have been an actual resident, in good faith., ot the state, tor one year
next preceding the filing of the petition, and a resident of the county
in which the action is brought at the time the petition is filed.
SEC. 641. The petition must be verified as true, by the
affidavit of the plaintifff. A summons may issue thereon, and shall be
served, or publication made, as in other cases. When service by publication
is proper, a copy of the petition, with a copy of the publication
notice attached thereto, shall, within three days after the first publication
is made, be enclosed in an envelope addressed to the defendant, at his or
her place of residence, postage paid, and deposited in the nearest post^
office, unless the plaintifff shall make and file an affidavit that such resi
dence is unknown to the plaintifff, and cannot be ascertained by any
means within the control of the plaintifff.
SEC. 642. The defendant, in his or her answer, may
allege a cause for a divorce against the plaintifff, and may have the same
relief thereupon as he or she would be entitled to for a like cause if he
or she were plaintifff. When new matter is set up in the answer, it shall
be verified as to such new matter by the affidavit of the defendant.
SEC. 643. When the parties appear to be in equal
wrong, the court may, in its discretion, refuse to grant a divorce; but inw
any such case, or in any other case where a divorce is refused, the court
may, for good cause shown, make such order as may be proper for the
custody, maintenance and education of the children, or the control and
disposition of the property of the parties as may be proper.
SEC. 644. After a petition has been filed in an action for
a divorce, or for alimony alone, the court, or a judge thereof in vacation,
may make and enforce, by attachment, such order to restrain the disposition
of the property of either party, or for the control of the children
and support of the wife, during the pendency of the action, as may be
right and proper; and, also, may make such order, relative to the ex-w
penses of the suit, as will insure to the wife an efficient preparation of
her case ; and on granting a divorce in favor of the wife, or refusing one
on the application of the husband, the court may require the husband to
pay all reasonable expenses of the wife in the prosecution or defense of
the action.
SEC. 645. When a divorce is granted, the court shall
make provision for guardianship, custody, support and education of the
minor children of the marriage, and may modify or change any order in
this respect, whenever circumstances render such change proper.
SEC. 646. When a divorce shall be granted by reason
of the fault or aggression of the husband, the wife shall be restored to
all her lands, tenements and hereditaments not previously disposed of,
and restored to her maiden name, if she so desires, and shall be allowed
such alimony out of her husband's real and personal property as thej
court shall think reasonable, having due regard to the property which
came to him by marriage, and the value of his real and personal estate
at the time of said divorce, which alimony may be allowed to her in
real or personal property, or both, or by decreeing to her such sum of
money, payable either in gross or installments, as the court may deem
just and equitable; and if the wife survive her husband, she shall also be
entitled to her right of dower in the real estate of her husband, not
allowed her as alimony, of which he was seized at the time during the
coverture, to which she had not relinquished her right of dower; but if
the divorce shall arise by reason of the fault or aggression of the wife,
she shall be barred of all right of dower in the lands of which her hus
band shall be seized at the time of the filing of the petition for divorce,
or which he may thereafter acquire, whether there be issue or not;
and the court shall order restoration to her of the whole of her lands,
tenements or hereditaments not previously disposed of, and also such
share of her husband's real or personal property or both, as to such court
may appear just and reasonable.
SEC. 647. A divorce granted at the instance of one
party, shall operate as a dissolution of marriage contract as to both, and
shall be a bar to any claim of the party for whose fault it was granted,
in or to the property of the other.
SEC. 648. When either of the parties to a marriage
shall be incapable, from want of age or understanding, of contracting
suc^ man™ge, the same may be declared void by the district court, in
an action brought by the incapable party; but the children of such
marriage, begotten before the same is annulled, shall be legitimate.
Cohabitation after such incapacity ceases, shall be a sufficient defense
to any such action.
SEC. 649. The wife may obtain alimony from the hnsband
without a divorce, in an action brought for that purpose in the
district court, for any of the causes for which a divorce may be granted.
The Irusband may make the same defense to such action as he might to
, . « i . •, ,. ~. . , . . V?, . « . •, ,. ~. . , . . V
an action for a divorce, and may, ior sufficient cause, obtain a divorce
from the wife in such action.
<41?9) § 650' SEC- 65°- UP°.n the trial of an ac*ion for a divorce, or
for alimony, the court may admit proof of the admissions of the parties
to be received in evidence, carefully excluding such as shall appear to
have been obtained by connivance, fraud, coercion or other improper
means. Proof of cohabitation, and reputation of the marriage of the
parties, may be received as evidence of the marriage. But no divorce
shall be granted without proof.
(*19°) § 661SEC. 651. A wife who resides in this state at the time
of applying for divorce, shall be deemed a resident of this state, though
her husband resides elsewhere.
SEC. 6. In any action for a divorce hereafter tried,
the parties thereto, or either of them, shall be competent to testify in
^ke manner, and respecting any fact necessary or proper to be proven,
as parties to other civil actions are allowed to testify.
ARTICLE 29.- OFFICES AND FRANCHISES.
SECTION.
652. Writ of quo warranto abolished;
remedy by civil action.
653. Action may be brought in what cases.
654. When prosecuted in name of state;
when in name of person; petition
in usurpation of office.
655. Judgment in case contesting right to
office.
SECTION.
656. Proceedings upon judgments for per
son entitled.
657. Order of court enforced by attach
ment.
658. Separate action for damages; judg
ment of ouster.
659. Costs, how collected in case of judjf
ment against a corporation.
SEC. 652. The writ of quo warranto, and proceeding
by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished, and tha
remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms may be had by civil action.
v. llalderman, 7 Kas. 60; Graham v. Cowgill, IS Kas. 115; Shoemaker v. Brown, 10
ex rel. v. Allen, 5 Kas. 820.
SEC. 653. Such action may be brought in the supreme
court or in the district court, in the following cases: First, When any
Pers9Q shall usurp, intrude into, or ' unlawfully hold or exercise any
public office, or shall claim any franchise within this state, or any office
*n any corporation created by authority of this state; Second, Wh'enevar
any public officer shall have done or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office; Third, When any
association or number of persons shall act within this state as a corporation without being legally incorporated; Fourth, When any corporation
do 9r admit [omit] acts which amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of
and privileges as a corporation, or when any corporation
p0wer or exercises powers not conferred by law; Fifth, Where
any corporation claims, by virtue of a congressional grant, any of the
public lands or Indian lands to which the Indian title or right of occu
pancy has been extinguished ; Sixth, For any other cause for winch a
remedy might have been heretofore obtained by writ of quo tcun anto, 01
information in the nature of quo ivarranto.
SEC. 654. When the action is brought by ihtnttornej
general or the county attorney of any county of his own motion, or
when directed to do so by competent authority, it shall be prosecuted in
the name of the state, but where the action is brought by a person
claiming an interest in the office, franchise or corporation, or claiming
any interest adverse to the franchise, gift or grant, which is the subject
of the action, it shall be prosecuted in the name and under the direction,
and at the expense of such person; whenever the action is brought
against a person for usurping an office by the attorney general or the
county attorney, he shall set forth in the petition the name of the per-i
son rightfully entitled to the office, and his right or title thereto; when
the action in such case is brought by the person claiming title, he may
claim and recover any damage ne may have sustained.
SEC. 655. In every case contesting the right to an
office, judgment shall be rendered according to the rights of the parties,
and for the damages the plaintifff or person entitled may have sustained,
if any, to the time of the judgment.
SEC. 656. If judgment be rendered in favor of
plaintifff or person entitled, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of
the office, after he has been qualified as required by law; and the court
shall order the defendant to deliver over all the books and papers in his
custody or within his power, belonging to the office from which he shall
have been ousted.
SEC. 657. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect toe
deliver over the books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court, or
judge thereof, shall enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment.
SEC. 658. When judgment is rendered in favor of the
plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the action, have
a separate action for the damages at any time within one year after the
judgment. The court may give judgment of ouster against the defend
ant, and exclude him from the office, franchise or corporate rights; and
in cases of corporations, that the same shall be dissolved.
SEC. 659. If judgment be rendered against any corporation,
or against any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court
may cause the costs to be collected by execution against the person
claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment against the directors or
other officers of the corporation, and may restrain any disposition of
the effects of the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and
effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof among the
creditors and persons entitled.
Sweetla
SEC. 660. Every person restrained of his liberty, under
any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire
into the cause of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom when
illegal.
48; Ex parte Mitchell, Dasslcr's Dig. p. 90; Ex parte Forbes, 1 Dill. 343; Terri
McCahon's K. 158.
SEC. 661. Application for the writ shall be made by
petition, signed and verified either by the plaintifff or by some person in
s behalf, and shall specify: First, By whom the person in whose
behalf the writ" is applied for is restrained of his liberty, and the place
where, naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing them, if
they are not known. Second, The cause or pretense of the restraint,
according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the applicant.
Third, If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the illegality
consists.
SEC. 662. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by
any court of record in term time, or by a judge of any such court, either
™ *erm or vacation ! an(i upon application the writ shall be granted
without delay.
SEC. 663. The writ shall be directed to the officer or
party having the person under restraint, commanding him to bave such
person before the court or judge, at such time and place as the court or
t'idge shall direct, to do and receive what shall be ordered concerning
ini, and have then and there the writ.
SEC. 664. If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it shall
be delivered by the clerk to him without delay.
SEC. 665. If the writ be directed to any other person,
it shall be delivered to the sheriff, and shall be by him served by deliv
ering the same to such person without delay.
SEC. 666- If tne person to whom such writ is directed
cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the same may
be served by leaving it at the residence of the person to whom it is direct
ed, or by affixing the same on some conspicuous place, either of his dwell
ing house or where the party is confined or under restraint.
SEC. 667. The sheriff or other person to whom the
writ is directed shall make immediate return thereof, and if he neglect
or refuse, after due service, to make return, or shall refuse or neglect to
obey the writ by producing the party named therein, and no sufficient
excuse be shown for such neglect or refusal, the court shall enforce
obedience by attachment.
SEC. 668. The return must be signed and verified by
^ person making it, who shall state:
First. The authority or cause of restraint of the party in his custody.
Second. If the_ authority be in writing, he shall return a copy and
produce the original on the hearing.
Third. If he has had the party in his custody or under restraint, and
has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time, place
and cause of the transfer. He shall produce the party on the hearing,
unless prevented by sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the
return.
SEC. 669. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth
of the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to decide on the
return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the party can be produced,
or for other good cause. The plaintifff may except to the sufficiency o_f,
or controvert the return or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in
avoidance; the new matter shall be verified, except in cases of commit
ment on a criminal charge; ,the return and pleadings may be amended
without causing any delay.
SEC. 670. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed
^n a gumn]ary way to hear and determine the cause; and if no legal
cause be shown for the restraint or for the continuance thereof, shall dis
charge the party.
SEC. 671. No court or judge shall inquire into the
legality of any judgment or process, whereby the party is in custody, or
discharge him when the term of commitment has not expired in either
Of the cases following: _
First. Upon process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, or where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction; or,
Second. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction; or,
Third. For any contempt of any court, officer or body having author
ity to commit; but an order of commitment as for a contempt, upon
proceedings to enforce the remedy of a party, is not included in any of
the foregoing specifications;
Fourth. Upon a warrant or commitment issued fjom the district
court, or any other court of competent jurisdiction, upon an indictment
or information.
SEC. 672. No person shall be discharged from an order
of commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for want of bail,
or in cases not bailable, on account of any defect in the charge or process,
or for alleged want of probable cause; but in all such cases, the
court or judge shall summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the
criminal charge, and discharge, let to bail or recommit the prisoner, as
may be just and legal, and recognize witnesses when proper.
SEC. 673. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal .actions.
SEC. 674. When any person has an interest in the
detention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having
such interest is notified.
SEC. 675. The court or judge shall have power to
require and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other acts
necessary to determine the case.
SEC. 676. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to
& civil action for obeying any writ of iiabeas corpus or order of discharge
made thereon.
SEC. 677. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that
any one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is good
reason to believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction
of the court or judge before whom the application is made, or will suffer
some irreparable injury before compliance with the writ can be enforced,
such court or judge may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting the facts,
and directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding
him to take the person thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith
bring Him before the court or judge, to be dealt with according to law.
SEC. 678. The court or judge may also, if the same be
deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for the apprehension of the person charged with causing the illegal restraint.
SEC. 679. The officer shall execute the writ by bring.1 11 • TIP n • i i ii i-i
ing the person therein named before the court or judge; and the like
return and proceedings shall be required and had as in case of writs of
habeas corpus.
SEC. 680. The court or judge may make any temporary
orders in the cause or disposition of the party during the progress
of the proceedings, that justice may require. The custody of any party
restrained may be changed from one person to another, by order of the
court or judge.
SEC. 681. Any writ or process authorized by this article,
may be issued and served, in case of emergency, on Sunday.
SEC. 682. All writs and other process, authorized by
the provisions of this article, shall be issued by the clerk of the court,
and, except summons, sealed with the seal of such court, and shall be
served and returned forthwith, unless the court or judge shall specify a
Bliss v. The St
particular tima for any such return. And no writ or other process shall
be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is shown to notify the
officer or person of the purport of the process. Amendments may be
allowed, and temporary commitments, when necessary.
SEC. 683. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in
favor of parents, guardians, masters and husbands; and to enforce the
rights, and for the protection of, infants and insane persons; and the
proceedings shall, in all such cases, conform to the provisions of this article.
(i224) § 68*- SEC- 68i- N? deposit or security for costs shall he re
quired of an applicant for a writ of habeas corpus.
ARTICLE 31.— WASTE.
SECTION 685. Action of waste abolished.
SEC. 685. The action of waste is abolished, but any
proceeding heretofore commenced or judgment rendered or right acquired,
"shall not be affected thereby; and where the action of waste is specially
mentioned and authorized in any statute, it may be used until otherwise
provided; but it shall be commenced, and proceeded in throughout, in.
the manner prescribed for the civil action of this code. Wrongs hereto
fore remediable by actions of waste, are subjects of action as other
wrongs, and the same relief shall be granted as may now be granted
under the action of waste.
!• J 3 1.1 • J • _ J._1.__J._ JI._ __ 1. _ __J AM _ 1.1 • .
ARTICLE 32.— ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES.
SECTION.
686. Who may bring action on forfeited
bond; proceedings.
SECTION.
637. Judgment no bar to another ac
tion.
SEC. .686> When a11 officer, executor or administrator
within this state, by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bond or
renders his sureties liable, any person injured thereby, or who is, by law,
entitled to the benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon in
^jg Qwn name) against the officer, executor or administrator and his
sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by reason
of the delinquency. The action may be instituted and proceeded in on
a certified copy of the bond, which copy shall be furnished by the per
son holding the original thereof.
SEC. 687. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency
does not preclude the same or another party from an action
on the same security for another delinquency.
ARTICLE 33.— PROCEEDINGS UPON MANDAMUS.
SECTION.
688. Writ issued to whom, and for what
purpose.
689. May not issue, in what cases.
690. Wnt alternative or peremptory.
691. When peremptory.
692. Motion to be made upon affidavit.
693. How allowed and served.
694. The answer.
SECTION.
695. Peremptory mandamus if no answer ;
new matter in answer.
696. No pleading but writ and answer;
issue to be tried.
697. Judgment for plaintifff.
698. Recovery of damages a bar to other
action.
699. Penalty for officer neglecting to per
form duty enjoined.
SEC. 688. The writ of mandamus may be issued
[^awarded] by the supreme court or the district court, or any justice or
judge thereof, during terra, or at chambers, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
board or person, to compel the performance of any act which
. e ^aw sPecia^v enjoins as a duty, resulting from an office, trust or sta
tion; but though it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment, or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot
' ontrol judicial discretion.
Bridge Co. 50 Kas. 411 : State V. Norton, 20 Kas. 506; Hnssey v. Hamil
SEC. 689. This writ may not be issued in any case
where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the
law. It may issue on the information of the party beneficially interi j J f « «
Wted.
State, 10 Kas. 15; Hnssev v. Hamilton, 5 Kns. 468: State T. Stockwcll. 7 Kas. 98;
3 Kas. f8; State v. McCrillns, 4 Kns. 250; Party, State v. Jefferson Co. 11 Kas. 70: S
6 Kas. 5-M, 63*. See State v. Bridge Co. 20 Kas. 411: State v. Norton, 20 Kas. 50
datum will lie, see A. T. & S. Fo tt'y Co. v. Jefferson Co. 11 Ku- . 66: Munkcrs v.
668; State ex rel. v. Stockwell. 7 Kas. 98: State ex ret. v. Lawrence, % Kas. 95; St
1 Kas. 90; State v. Sheldon, 2 Kas. 322. Will not lie. Independence Town Co. v. D
152; Turner v. Jefferson Co. 10 Kas. 16; State ex rel. v. Bridgman. 8 Kas. 45S; S
Wyandotlc. 4 Kas. 430; State ex rel. v. School Fund, 4 Kas. it/2: State ex rel. v
Kas. 247; State v. Leavenworth Co. 2 Kas. 62; State v. Robinson, 1 Kas. 188 Disc
A. T. & S. Fe R'y Co. v. Jefferson Co. 11 Kas. (Hi; State ex rel. v. Mareton, 6 Kas.
SEC. 690. The writ is either alternative or peremptory.
The alternative writ must state, concisely, the facts, showing the
obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission to per
form it, and command him that immediately upon receipt of the writ,
or at some other specified time, he do the act required to be performed or
show cause before the court whence the writ issued, at a specified time
and place, why he has not done so; and that he then and there return
the writ with his certificate of having done as he is commanded. The
peremptory writ must be in a similar form, except that the words requir
ing the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded,
must be omitted.
SEC. 691. When the right to require the performance
of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given for
not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first
instance; in all other cases, the alternative writ must be first issued.
SEC. 692. The motion for the writ must be made upon
affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be
given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause why it
should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.
SEC. 693. The allowance of the writ must be indorsed
thereon, signed by the judge of the court granting it, and the writ
must be served personally upon the defendant; if the defendant, duly
served, neglect to return the same, he shall be proceeded against, as for
a contempt.
SEC. 694. On the return day of the alternative writ, or
such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ
shall have been served may show cause, by answer made in the same
manner as an answer to a petition in a civil action.
SEC. 695. If no answer be made, a peremptory man
damus must be allowed against the defendant; if answer be made, containing new matter, the same shall not, in any respect, conclude the plaint
iff, who may, on the trial or other proceeding, avail himself of any
valid objections to [its] sufficiency, or may countervail it by proof, either
in direct denial or by way of avoidance.
SEC. 696. No other pleading or written allegation jg
allowed than the writ and answer; these are the pleadings in the case,
and have the same effect, and are to be construed and may be amended
in the same manner, as pleadings in a civil action; and the issues thereby
joined must be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had, in the
same manner as in a civil action.
SEC. 697. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he
shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained
by the court or jury, or by referees, as in a civil action, and costs;
and a peremptory mandamus shall also be granted to him without delay.
SEC. 698. A recovery of damages, by virtue of this article, against a party who shall have made a return to a writ of man
damus, is a bar to any other action against the same party for the making
of such return. '
SEC. 699. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is
directed to any public officer, body or board, commanding the performance of any public duty specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the
court that such officer, or any member of such body or board, has, with
out just excuse, refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the
court may impose a fine, not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every
such officer or member of such body or board. Such fine, when col
lected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county where the duty ought
to have been performed; and the payment thereof is a bar to an action
for any penalty incurred by such officer or member of such body or
board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
ARTICLE 34.— GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO THE WHOLE
CODE — PROCESS.
SECTION.
700. Style of process; seal, signature and
date.
701. Process, when sheriff a party.
702. Court, etc., may appoint person to
serve process; how verified.
DUTIES OF CLERKS.
703. To keep dockets, journals, etc.
704. Shall enter what on appearance
docket.
705. On journal.
706. Judgment docket to be kept, how;
statement to be entered.
707. Entries in execution docket; return to
execution to be recorded.
708. Clerk may receive amount of judg
ment and costs, when; his liability.
709. Writs, orders, etc., to be issued upon
precipe.
710. Clerk to file papers in every action or
special proceeding.
711. Papers in each case, how to be kept.
712. Indorsement upon papers and orders.
713. Entry upon return of summons.
714. Records and books of court.
715. Provisions of this article applicable
to clerks of all courts of record.
716. Clerk to exercise what powers and
perform what duties.
DUTIES OP SHERIFF.
717. To indorse upon process, time of re
ceiving it.
718. To execute and return process; liable
for neglect.
SECTION.
719. To adjourn court from day to day
until judge attend; further powen
and duties.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
720. Duty enjoined upon ministerial offi
cer may be performed by deputy.
721. Affirmation sufhcient, when.
722. Time, how computed.
723. Person offered as security may be re
quired to take oath.
724. Qualifications of surety.
725. Supreme court to revise its rules, and
make amendments.
PROVISIONS RESPECTING ACTIONS.
726. Application of the code to suits pend
ing; shall apply to proceedings to
enforce or reverse judgment.
PROVISIONS AS TO THE OPEBATION OF
THE CODE.
727. Rights of action under existing prac
tice to be enforced under this code,
except, etc.
728. Code not to affect certain proceed
ings.
729. When action shall be prosecuted in
conformity with this act.
730. Take effect, when.
731. Certain publications.
732. The same.
SEC. 700. The style of all process shall be: " The stateof
TTftnsM. Tt shall be under the seal of the court from whpn™> trip sritinKansas. ' It shall be under the seal of the court from whence the sameshall issue, shall be signed by the clerk, and dated the day it is issued.
13 Kas 90; Allen v. Corlew, 10 Kas. 10.
SEC. 701. An order for a provisional remedy or any
ofaer process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or is interested,
sna^ directed to the coroner. If both of these officers are interested,
the process shall be directed to and executed by a person appointed, as
provided in the next section.
SEC. 702. The court or judge, or the clerk, in the
absence of the judge from the county, for good cause, may appoint a
person to serve a particular process or order, who shall have the same
power to execute it which the sheriff has. The person may be appointed
on the application of the party obtaining the process or order, and the
return must be verified by affidavit. He shall be entitled to the same
fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services.
SEC. 703. The clerk of the district court shall keep an
' ° i i i-iii, • i -i iiii j
appejiriince docket, a tnal docket, a journal, a judgment docket, an exe
cution docket, and such other books as may be ordered by the court or
required by law.
SEC. 704. On the appearance docket he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they are brought, the date of the sumrnons, the time of the return thereof by the officer, and his return
thereon, the time of filing the petition, and all subsequent pleadings
and papers, and an abstract of all judgments and orders of the court.
SEC. 705. On the journal shall be entered the pro-^
ceedings of the court of each day, and all orders of the judge in vacation
or at chambers, and also all judgments entered on confession or default,
SEC. 706. The judgment docket shall be kept in the
- v f ' ° . , . i-iiir i_ ' i
torm ot an index, in which the name ot each person against whom a
judgment is rendered shall appear in alphabetical order. A statement
of each judgment upon its rendition shall be entered therein, containing
the names of the parties, the amount or nature of the judgment and
costs, and the date of its rendition; and if the judgment be against sev
eral persons, the entry shall be repeated under the name of each person
against whom the judgment is rendered, in alphabetical order.
SEC. 707. In the execution docket the clerk shall
enter all executions as they are issued by him. The entry shall contain
the names of the parties, the date and amount of the j udgment and
costs, the date of the execution, and the name of the county to which
it is issued. The clerk shall also record in full the return of the sheriff
to each execution ; and such record shall be evicience of such return, if
the original be mislaid or lost.
SEC. 708. When there is no execution outstanding,
the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered may receive
the amount of the judgment and costs, and receipt therefore, with the
same effect as if the same had been paid to the sheriff on an execution;
and the clerk shall be liable to be amerced for refusing to pay the same
to the party entitled thereto, when requested, and shall also be liable on
his official bond.
SEC. 709. All writs, and orders for provisional remedies,
and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the
several courts, upon a precipe filed with the clerk, demanding the same.
SEC. 710. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the
courts, to file together, and carefully preserve in his office, all papers
delivered to him for that purpose, in every action or special proceeding.
SEC. 711. He shall keep the papers, in each case,
separate, carefully enveloped in a wrapper, labeled with the title of the
cause.
SEC. 712. He shall indorse upon every paper filed
with him, the day of filing it; and upon every order for a provisional
remedy, and upon every undertaking given under the same, the day of
its return to his office.
SEC. 713. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the appearance docket the name of the defendant or
defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each one. The
entry shall be evidence of the service of the summons, in case of the loss
thereof.
SEC. 714. He shall keep the records and books and
papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.
SEC. 715. The provisions of this article shall, as far as
they are applicable, apply to the clerks of all courts of record.
SEC. 716. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon him
by other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common
law. In the performance of his duties, he shall be under the direction
of his court.
DUTIES OF SHEBIFF.
SEC. 717- The sn?riff sha11 indorse upon every sum
mons, order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of attachment
or injunction, the day and hour it was received by him.
SEC. 718. He shall execute every summons, order or
Q^er procesSi an(j return the same as required by law; and if he fail to
do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction of the court that he
was prevented by inevitable accident from so doing, he shall be amerced
by the court in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, upon motion
and ten days' notice, and shall be liable to the action of any person
aggrieved by such failure.
SEC. 719. If the judge of a court fail to attend at the
time and place appointed for holding his court, the sheriff shall hare
power to adjourn the court from day to day, until the judge attend, or
a Juc^>e Pro tgm- be selected; but if the judge be not present in his court,
nor a judge pro tern, be selected, within two days after the first day of the
term, then the court shall stand adjourned for the term. The sheriff
shall exercise the powers and duties conferred and imposed upon him by
other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common law.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
SEC. 720. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a ministerial
officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.
404. '
404.
SEC. 721. Whenever an oath is required by this code,
the affirmation of a person, conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath,
shall have the same effect.
SEC. 722. The time within which an act is to be done,
shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including the last; if
the last day be Sunda3r, it shall be excluded.
Douglas v. Hinehardt, 5 Kas. .'»;'.; Dougherty v. Powers, 18 Kas. 209; Stewart v.
!WO.
SEC. 723. A ministerial officer, whose duty it is to
take security in any undertaking provided for by this code or by
other statutes, shall require the person offered as surety to make an affidavit
of his qualifications, which affidavit may be made before such
officer, and shall be indorsed upon or attached to the undertaking. The
taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liabil
ity to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient
security.
SEC. 724. The surety in every undertaking provided
/. x . ,'i •" •, ,, ,,, , i J • -i , <• n • & , i
for by this code or other statute, must be a resident or this state, and
worth double the sum to be secured, over and above all exemptions, debts
and liabilities. Where there are two or more sureties in the same under
taking, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in
this section.
SEC. 725. The judges of the supreme court shall,
during the month of the first June after this code shall take effect, and
every two years thereafter, meet at the capital of the state, and revise
their general rules, and make such amendments thereto as may be
required to carry into effect the provisions of this code, and shall make
such further rules consistent therewith as they may deem proper. The
rules so made shall apply to the supreme court, the district courts, the
probate courts, and all other courts of record.
PROVISIONS RESPECTING ACTIONS.
SEC. 726. The provisions of this code do not applv to
proceedings in actions or suits pending, when it takes effect. They shall
be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all respects, as if it had not
been adopted; but the provisions of this code shall apply after a judginent, order or decree, heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceed
ings to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it.
PROVISIONS AS TO THE OPERATION OF THE CODE.
SEC. red by
existing laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided for by this code,
except as provided in the next section. If a case ever arise in which an
action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the
redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the
practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to
prevent a failure of justice.
SEC. 728. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide,
±1 • i i 11 i *i« i T i i c • i
this code shall not afreet proceedings to assess damages tor private property
taken for public uses, nor proceedings under the statutes for the set
tlement of estates of deceased persons, nor proceedings under stat
utes relating to apprentices, bastardy, insolvent debtors or any special
statutory remedy, not heretofore obtained by action; but such proceed
ings may be prosecuted under the code whenever it is applicable.
SEC. 729. Where, by statute, a civil action, legal or
equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed,
this code shall not affect the proceeding under such statute, until the
legislature shall otherwise provide; but the parties may, if they see fit,
proceed under this act, and in all such cases, as far as it may be consist
ent with the statute giving such action and practicable under this code,
the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity thereto. Where the
statute designates, by name or otherwise, the kind of action, such action
shall be commenced and prosecuted in conformity to this code. Where
the statute gives an action, but does not designate the kind of action, or
prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be held to
be the civil action of this code, and proceeded in accordingly.
SEC. 730. This act shall take effect and be in force
from and after its publication in the statute book. Approved February
25, 1868.
SEC. 1. That all legal publications heretofore made
in newspapers having one side of the paper printed away from the office
of publication, and known as patent insides or patent outsides, shall have
the same force and effect as if published in newspapers wholly printed
and published in such county where such publication was made.
SEC. 2. That all publications and notices required by
la-w to be published in newspapers in this state, if published in newspapers having one side of the paper printed away from the office of publication,
known as patent outsides or insides, shall have the same force
and effect as though the same were published in newspapers printed
wholly and published in the county where such publication shall be
made: Provided, One side of the paper is printed in said county where
said noticed are required to be published.
Be it enacted by tJte legislature of the state of Kansas:
SEC. ION 1. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in civil
cases shall be co-extensive with. the county wherein they may have been
elected, and wherein they shall reside.
v. Wood, 3 KM. 2M.
SEC. 2. Under the limitation and restrictions herein provided,
justices of the peace shall have original jurisdiction of civil actions:
[.PYrsJ,] For the recovery of money only, and to try and determine the
same wnere the amount claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars.
Second, To try the action for the forcible entry and detention, or detention
only, of real property. Third, To issue orders of attachment and
Pr°9ee(l against the goods and effects of debtors in certain cases. Fourth,
To issue subpoenas for witnesses, and compel their attendance in causes
'^^ matters pending before them, or other cause or matter wherein they
may be required to take depositions. Fifth, To issue executions on
judgments rendered by them. Sixth, To proceed against security for costs
anc^ ^ail for the stay of execution before them in the manner prescribed
'by law. Seventh, To proceed against constables failing to make return,
making false return, or failing to pay over money collected on execu
tion issued by any justice. Eighth, To administer any oath or affirma
tion authorized or required by law to be administered. Ninth, to take
the acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages, and other instruments in writ
ing. Tenth, To act, in the absence of the probate judge, in the trial of
contested elections of justices of the peace. Eleventh, To solemnize
marriages.
SEC. 3. When the balance claimed to be due on any open
or unsettled account, or on any bill, note or bond, shall not exceed three
hundred dollars, the party by whom such balance shall be claimed may
commence his action therefore, before a justice of the peace, who shall
have power, and he is hereby authorized, to hear and determine the
matters in controversy, without regard to the amount of the original
account or contract, and he may render judgment for any balance found
due, not exceeding three hundred dollars.
SEC. 4. In actions founded upon an undertaking given in
pursuance of law in any civil proceeding pending before a justice, such
justice, or his successor in office, shall nave jurisdiction thereof, where
the sum due or demanded on such undertaking does not exceed five hundred
dollars.
SEC. 5. If any debtor shall appear before a justice of the
peace, without process, and confess that he is indebted to another, it
shall be lawful for such justice, on the application of the creditor, to
render judgment on such confession against the debtor.
SEC. 6. Justices shall have jurisdiction in actions for trespass
on real estate, where damages demanded for such trespass shall not
exceed one hundred dollars.
cbell, I? Kas. TO; Lorlngv. Hockwoo
SEC. 7. If in any action commenced before a justice it
appears to the satisfaction of the justice that the title or boundaries of
land is in dispute in such action, said action shall be stayed before said
justice, and said justice shall, within ten days thereafter, certify said
case, and transmit all papers and process therein to the clerk of the district court of his county, and said case shall be docketed and thereafter
proceeded with in the district court as if originally commenced therein.
The justice before whom said action is commenced shall require of the
defendant setting up said title or boundary, to set forth in his answer or
bill of particulars a full and specific statement of the facts constituting
his defense of said title or boundary brought in question; and the defend
ant shall be required to make affidavit of the truthfulness of the state
ments in his said answer or bill of particulars contained, and that said
defense is bona fide, and not made for vexation or delay, but for the pro
motion of justice.
SEC. 8. Justices shall not have cognizance of any action:
First, To recover damages for an assault or an assault and battery; or,
Second, In any action for slander or malicious prosecution; or, third,
In actions against justices of the peace or other officers, for misconduct
in office, except in the cases provided for in this act; or, Fourth, In
actions on contracts for real estate; or, Fifth, In actions in which the title to real estate is sought to be recovered, or may be drawn in ques
tion.
ARTICLE 2.- COMMENCEMENT OF AN ACTION.
SECTION.
SECTION .
9. How action commenced.
10. When guardian necessary, how ap
pointed.
11. The summons.
12. Service and return.
13. Service on corporation.
14. On insurance company.
15. On foreign corporation.
16. On minor.
17. Time for appearance.
SEC. 9. Actions before justices of the peace are com•ii i i L * it i •
menced by summons, or by appearance and agreement ot the parties,
without summons. In the former, the action is deemed commenced upon
delivery of the writ to the constable to be served, and he shall note
thereon the time of receiving the same. In the latter case, the action is
deemed commenced at the time of docketing the case.
SEC. 10. When a guardian to the suit is necessary, he
must be appointed by the justice as follows: First, If the infant be plaintifff,
the appointment must be made before the summons issued, upon the
application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or up
wards; if under that age, upon the application of some friend. The con
sent, in writing, of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible
for the costs if he fail in the action, must be filed with the justice.
Second, If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be appointed be
fore the trial. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own guard
ian, if the infant be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guard
ian be present and consent, in writing, to be appointed; otherwise, the
justice may appoint any suitable person who gives such consent.
SEC. 11. The summons shall be dated the day it is
issued, signed by the justice issuing the same, directed to a constable of
the proper township (except in case a person be deputed to serve it, in
• which case it shall be directed to such person), must contain the name
or names of the defendant or defendants, if known; if unknown, give
a description of him or them, and command the officer or person serving
the same to summon the defendant or defendants to appear before such
justice, at his office in -township, at a time specified therein, and
must describe the plaintifff's cause of action in such general terms as to
apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him; and there
shall be indorsed on the writ the amount for which the plaintifff will
take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear. If the defendant fail to
appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs.
SEC. 12. The summons must be returnable not more
than twelve days from its date, and must, unless accompanied with an
order of arrest, be served at least three days before the time of appearf ,, TTI- ^ T> j i- • o ii -n
ance, as follows: Jptrst, Joy delivering a copy or the summons, with
the indorsement thereon (certified by the constable or person serving
the same to be a true copy), to the defendant, or leaving the same at his
usual place of residence. Second, An acknowledgment on the back of
the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent
to service.
SEC. 13. A summons against a corporation maybe
serve(j Upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors or
trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officer is not found in the
county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent;
or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the
omc.e or usual place of business of such corporation, with the person
having charge thereof.
SEC. 14. When the defendant is an incorporated insurance
company? an(j the action is brought in the county in which there is
an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of such
agency.
SEC. 15. When the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this state, the service may be upon such
agent.
SEC. 16. When the defendant is a minor, under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian or
father; or, if neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or the
person having the care and control of the infant, or with whom he lives.
If neither of these can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen
years of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient. The manner of
service may be the same as in the case of adults.
<4289) § 17' SEC- 17- The Parties are entitled to one hour in which
to appear, after the time mentioned in the summons for appearance, or
to which the case is adjourned, but are not bound to remain longer than
that time, unless both parties have appeared, and the justice, being pres
ent, is engaged in the trial of another cause. In such case the justice
may postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial.
ARTICLE 3.— ARREST AND BAIL.
SECTIOW.
18. Causes for arreat; affidavit
19. Order may accompany summons.
20. Undertaking of plaintifff.
21. Order shall be delivered to whom;
shall state what.
22. How executed.
23. Proceedings after arrest.
SECTION.
21. Defendant not to be kept in custody in
case of continuance, unless, etc.
25. Counter - affidavit; defendant diacharged, when.
26. Issuing of order of arrest after judg
ment; affidavit.
27. Order to be delivered to whom; shall
require what.
SEC. 18. An order for the arrest of the defendant in a
action shall be made by the justice of the peace before whom the
same is brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his authorized agent or attorney, made before any person
authorized by law to administer oaths, stating the nature of the plaintifff's
claim, that it is just, the amount thereof, as near as may be, audw
showing one or more of the following particulars: First, That the
defendant has removed or begun to remove any of his property out of
the county, with intent to defraud his creditors. Second, That the
defendant has begun to convert his property, or any part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of defrauding his creditors. Ihird, That he has
property or rights in action -which he fraudulently conceals. Fourth,
That he has assigned, removed or disposed of, or has begun to assign,
remove or dispose of his property, or any part thereof, with intent to
defraud his creditors. Fifth, That the defendant fraudulently contracted
the debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be brought.
Sixth, That the defendant is about to abscond, with intent to defraud
his creditors. The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or more of the
above particulars.
SEC. 19. The order of arrest maybe made to accomn i i- ft i i /» • i ,
pany the summons, or at any time aiterwards before judgment.
SEC. 20. The order of arrest shall not be issued by a,
justice of the peace until there has been executed, by one or more suffi
cient sureties of the plaintifff, a written undertaking, to the effect that
the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sus
tain by reason of the arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not
•exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, stated in the
affidavit.
SEC. 21. The order of arrest shall be addressed and de-(
livered, with a copy of the affidavit, to a constable of the proper town
ship; it shall state the names of the parties, the amount of the plaintifff's
claim specified in the affidavit, be signed by the justice of the peace
issuing it, and shall require the constable to arrest the defendant and
bring him forthwith before said justice.
SEC. 22. The officer receiving said order shall execute
the same by forthwith arresting the defend ant and delivering to him a
copy thereof, and of the affidavit; and the defendant so arrested, unless
the claim of the plaintifff, specified in the affidavit, and costs of suit, are
paid, or unless discharged from custody by order of the plaintifff, shall
be taken by such constable, forthwith, before the justice of the peace
by whom said order of arrest was issued, and kept in custody until dis
charged by law.
SEC. 23. Upon the return of said order of arrest, executed
in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of said party shall
proceed, unless for good cause shown, upon the application of either
party, or at the instance of the justice himself, the same shall be con
tinued, as is provided for in other cases before justices of the peace; and
when the trial of said cause is continued for any period, the defendant,
upon executing, with one or more sufficient sureties, a written under
taking to the effect that if judgment be rendered against him upon the
final determination of the action, he will render himself amenable to the
process thereon; or upon depositing in the hands of the justice of the
peace the amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest, and the
probable amount of costs of suit, shall be forthwith discharged from
custody.
SEC. 24. In no case shall the defendant be detained in
the custody of the officer, when a continuance has been for a period of
more than forty-eight hours, unless said continuance has been made at
ihe instance, or with the consent, of the defendant himself.
SEC. 25. If the defendant, before the commencement of
the trial, file his affidavit with the justice, denying the grounds laid in
the affidavit of the plaintifff for the arrest, the truth of such grounds shall
be considered in issue on the trial, and shall be tried at the same time
and in the same manner as the other issues in the case; but a separate
finding shall be made whether such grounds are " true " or " not sus
tained by the evidence." If all the grounds are found to be not sustained
by the evidence, the defendant shall be discharged.
. (4298) § 26. SEC. 26. On judgment against the defendant, in any
civil action before a justice of the peace, when the defendant is in the
custody of the officer, as hereinbefore provided, or if, after judgment
against him, there is filed, in the office of such justice, an affidavit of
the plaintifff, his authorized attorney, made before any person competent
to administer an oath, stating the amount of the judgment remaining
unpaid, and one or more of the particulars mentioned in section eighteen,
said justice of the peace shall, unless otherwise ordered by the plaintifff,
issue an execution, and accompany the same with an order for the arrest
of the defendant.
") § 2?' SEC> 27' Said or(ler ?f arrest sha11 be addressed and
delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the constable having said
execution, and shall state the names of the parties, be signed by the jus
tice issuing it, and state the amount of the judgment and costs unpaid,
and shall require the officer, in case the same shall not be paid, or an
amount of property of the defendant, whereon to levy execution, suffi
cient to satisfy the same cannot be found in his county, to arrest
the defendant, if not already in the custody of the officer, and deliver
him to the sheriff of the proper county, to be committed by him to the
jail of the county, and kept in custody until discharged by law.
ARTICLE 4.— ATTACHMENT.
SECTION.
28. Affidavit for attachment; attachment
when defendant is a foreign corpo
ration or non-resideut.
29. Undertaking to be given.
30. The issuing, delivery and command of
attachment.
81. Return day.
32. How attachments executed.
33. How property discharged from attach
ment.
34. Inventory when two or more attach
ments; priority of liens.
35. How orders served when accompanied
with summons; proceedings if sum
mons cannot be served.
36. Perishable property to be sold, when;
how money realized disposed of.
37. Proceedings against garnishee.
38. Copy of order and notice, how served.
39. Examination of garnishee.
40. Money due defendant may be paid
into court.
41. Attachment for garnishee.
42. Property or money in the hands of
garuishee, how disposed of.
SECTION.
43. Plaintiff may proceed against gar
nishee, when.
44. Trial of truth of answer of garnishee
may be demanded, when.
45. When judgment shall be rendered.
46. Attachment discharged upon judg
ment for defendant.
47. Judgment, how satisfied.
48. Order to re-seize property.
49. Who to determine priorities.
50. Officer's return.
51. Garnishee liable to plaintifff.
52. When defendant may retain property.
53. Duty of justice when counter-affidavit
filed.
54. Proceedings to be certified to district
court where there are lands but no
goods.
54 a. Attachment or garnishment at tho
commencement of the action; affi
davit, summons, etc.
546. The summons, directions and con
tents.
54 c. Proceedings in garnishment.
54 d. Publication of summons, when made.
SEC. 28. The plaintifff in a civil action [before a justice
of the peace] for the recovery of money may, at or after the commencement thereof [when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff,
* his agent or attorney, showing the nature of the plaintifff's claim, that it is
V"8^ ^lc ft'tioiint which the affiant bcUcrcs the plaintifff oitfjht to rtcoter, and
' the existence of some one, or more of the following particulars]* have an
attachment against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds
herein stated: First, When the defendant or one of several defend
ants is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this state (but no
tachment shall be granted on the ground or grounds in this clause stated
for any claim other than a debt or demand arising upon contract, judg
meiit or decree, unless the cause of action arose wholly within the limit
of this state, which fact must be established on the trial); or, Second,
When the defendant or one of several defendants has absconded with
intent to defraud his creditors; or, Third, Has left the county of hi
residence to avoid the service of a summons; or, Fourth, So conceals
himself that a summons cannot be served upon him ; or. Fifth, Is about
to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the jurisdiction of the
court, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or, Sixth, Is about to
convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for the purpose o
placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or, Seventh, Has property
or rights in action which he conceals; or, Eighth, Has assigned, removed
or disposed of, or is about to dispose of his property, or a part thereof,
with the intent to defraud, hinder or delay his creditors; or, Ninth,
Fraudulently contracted the debt, or fraudulently incurred the liabilit
or obligation, for which suit is about to be or has been brought; or,
Tenth, \Vhere the damages for which the action is brought are for in
juries arising from the commission of some felony, or misdemeanor; or,
Eleventh, When the debtor has failed to pay the price or value of the article or thing delivered, which by contract he was bound to pay upon
delivery.
SEC. 29. The order of attachment shall not be issued by
the justice unti' there has been executed in his office, by one or more
sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by tne justice, an
undertaking, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim,
to the effect chat the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully
obtained.
SEC. 30. The order of attachment may be made to
accompany the summons, or at any time afterward before judgment;
shall be addressed and delivered to any constable of the proper township,
and shall require him to attach the goods, chattels, stocks or interest in
stocks, rights, credits, monies and effects of the defendant in his county,
not exempt by law from being applied to the payment of the plaintifff's
claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintifff's claim, to be stated
in the order as in the_affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not
exceeding fifty dollars.
SEC. 31. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as
that of the aummons; when issued afterwards, it shall be executed and
returned forthwith.
SEC. 32. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, in the hands of the same officer, they shall
be executed in the order in which they were received by said officer. He
shall go to the place where the defendant's property may be found, and
there, in the presence of two creditable persons, declare that by virtue
of said order, he attaches said property at the suit of such plaintifff; and
the officer, with two householders of the county, who shall be first
Bwo_rn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true inventory and ap
praisement of all property attached, which shall be signed by the officer
and said householders, and returned with the order; when the property
can be come at, he shall take the same into his custody, and hold it
subject to the order of the justice.
SEC. 33. The constable shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execu-f
tion by such person, in the presence of the constable, of an undertaking
to the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, resident in the
county, to the effect that the parties to the same are bound in double the
aPPraised value thereof, that the property or its appraised value in
money shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of said property
has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof
shall be remitted to the person or persons so found.
SEC. 34. Different attachments of the same property
may be made, and one inventory and appraisement shall be sufficient,
rp^g ]jen of ^ne attachment shall be in the order in which they are
served, and the subsequent attachments shall be served on the property
as in the hands of the officer, and subject to the prior attachments.
The justice who issued the attachment having the priority of lien, shall
determine all questions as to the priority of liens on the property at
tached.
(*307) § 35. SEC. 35. If the order of attachment is made to accompany
the summons, a copy thereof and the summons shall be served
upon the defendant in the usual manner for the service of summons, if
the same can be done within the county; and when any property of the
defendant has been taken under the order of attachment, and it shall
appear that the summons issued in the action has not been and cannot
be served on the defendant in the county, in the 'manner prescribed by
law, the justice of the peace shall continue the' cause for a period not
less than thirty or more than fifty days; whereupon the plaintifff shall
proceed, for three consecutive weeks, to publish, in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, if none be printed therein, then in some news
paper of general circulation in said county, a notice, stating the names
of the parties, the time when, by what justice of the peace, and for what
sum said order was issued and the time when the cause will be heard, and
shall make proof of such publication to the justice; and thereupon said
action shall be proceeded with the same as if said summons had been duly
served.
SEC. 36. When the cause is continued, as provided for
in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any of the property
taken under the attachment is live stock, or is of a perishable nature, the
justice may issue his order directing the officer having custody thereof,
to dispose of the same as upon execution; and the monies realized there
from shall be paid over to the justice, and applied as other money realized
from the sale of the property attached is applied.
(4309) §37- S?c- 37- When the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall
make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to and does believe that
anX Person or corporation, to be named, and withjn the county where the
action is brought, has property of the defendant (describing the same),
or credits in his possession, or is indebted to him, if the officer cannot
come at the property, he shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the
order of attachment, with a written notice that he appear before the jas^eo' a* *ne re^urn °f the order of attachment and answer, as provided in section thirty-nine: Provided, That when the garnishee is a corporati°ni the answer day for such garnishee shall in no case be less than ten
days from the day of service of the written notice aforesaid; and if the
office or place of business of the president or other head of said corpora
tion, or of the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, is not held
or kept in the county where the action is pending, the answer day for
such garnishee shall not be less than twenty days from the day of service
of written notice as aforesaid.
SEC. 38. The copy of the order and notice shall be
serve(j Up0n the garnishee as follows: If he be a person, they shall be
served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence; if a
corporation, they shall be left with the president or other head of the
same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof.
SEC. 39. The garnishee shall appear before the justice,
in accordance with the command of the notice, and shall answer, under
oath, all questions put to him touching the property of every description
and credits of the defendant, in his possession or under his control; and
lie shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to the defendant,
whether clue or not; and in the case of a corporation, any stock therein
held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of the
notice. The examination of the garnishee, with the questions and
answers, shall be reduced to writing by the justice, or in his presence
signed by the party and filed, unless the parties otherwise agree.
SEC. 40. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the constable having the order of attachment, or
into court. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for
any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be
subject to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim against
him, and if he disclose the property in his hands, or the true amount
owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the order of the
court, he shall be allowed his costs.
SEC. 41. If the garnishee do not appear and answer, as
required by section thirty-nine, the justice may proceed against him by
attachment, as for a contempt.
SEC. 42. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is
discovered on his examination that at or after the service of the order of
attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of any property of
the defendant, or was indebted to him, the justice may order the delivery
of such property, and the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee into court, or may permit the garnishee to retain the property or
the amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaint
iff, by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall
be paid or the property forthcoming, as the court may direct.
SEC. 43. If the garnishee fails to appear and answer, or
•f \ ' ° i i i • T i • *Lr i- p i i ii
if he appears and answers, and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the
plaintifff, or if he fails to comply with the order of the justice to deliver
the property and pay the money owing into court, or give the' under
taking required in the preceding section, the plaintifff may proceed
against him in an action, in his own name, as in other cases; and there
upon such proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may
be rendered in favor of the plaintifff for the amount of the property and
credits of every kind, of the defendant in the possession of the garnishee,
and for what shall appear to be pwino- by him to the defendant, and for
the costs of the proceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintifff pro
ceed against the garnishee oy action, for the cause that his disclosure was
unsatisfactory, unless it appears in the action that such disclosure was
incomplete, the plaintifff shall pay the costs of such action. The judg
ment in this action may be enforced as judgments in other cases. When
the claims of the plaintifffs in attachment are satisfied by the garnishee,
he may. on motion, be substituted as the plaintifff in the judgment.
SEC. 44. The plaintifff may give notice to the justice that
the answer of the garnishee is unsatisfactory, and demand a trial of the
truth of such answer, and the justice shall thereupon appoint a day for
such trial, which shall be conducted, in all respects, as in other cases.
SEC. 45. Final judgment shall not be rendered against
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachment has
been determined: and if, in such action, judgment be rendered for the
defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged and recover
costs. If the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in attach
ment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all property, monies and cred
its of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the monies from him
due, as the court may order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the
costs of the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the property
and monies so surrendered, or as the court may think right and proper.
SEC. 46. If judgment be rendered, in the action, for the
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property
attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.
SEC. 47. If judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, it shall
be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining in the hands
of the officers, after applying the monies arising from the sale of perish
able property, and so much of the personal property, if any, as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold, by order of the justice,
under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same ha_d been
levied on by execution; and the money arising therefrom, with the
amount which may be recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to
satisfy the judgment and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the
same, the judgment shall stand, and execution may issue thereon for the
residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the attached
property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defendant.
SEC. 48. The justice may order the constable to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property
which may have passed out of his hands without having been sold or
converted into money; and the constable shall, under such order, have
the same power to take the property as he would have under an order of
attachment.
SEC. 49. Where several attachments are executed on
the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the justice
issuing the first order served, on the motion of any of the plaintifffs, may
determine the amounts and priorities of the several attachments, and the
proceeds shall be applied accordingly.
SEC. 50. The officer shall return, upon every order of
attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show tlis
property attached, and the time it was attached. When garnishees are
served, their names, and the time each was served, must be stated. The
officer shall also return, with the order, all undertakings given under it.
SEC. 51. An order of attachment binds the property attached
from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand liable to
^e Pontiff in attachment for all property, monies and credits in his
hands, or due from him to the defendant, from the time he is served with
the written notice mentioned in section thirty-seven ; but when property
is attached in the hands of a consignee or other person having a prior
lien, his lien thereon shall not be affected by attachment.
SEC. 52. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be executed
^° ^ne pla'ntiffi by one °.r niore sureties, resident in the county, to be
approved by the justice, in double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, to
be "stated in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform
the judgment of the justice, the attachment in such action shall be dis
charged, and restitution made of any property taken under it, or the
proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the liability of
a garnishee, in such action, for any property of the defendant in his
hands.
SEC. 53. If the defendant shall, before the trial is comfile an affidavit, denying the grounds laid for the attachment in
the plaintifff's affidavit, the justice shall, on reasonable notice, in writing, being given to the opposite party, proceed to examine into the
truth of the grounds laid for such attachment, and shall hear such evi
dence as may be produced by either party; and if it appear that such
grounds are not sustained by the evidence, the justice shall discharge
the attachment.
SEC. 54. If, in any case where an order of attachment
nas ^een issued by a justice of the peace, it shall appear from the return
Of the officer and from the examination of the garnishee, that no prop
erty, monies, rights, credits or effects of the defendant has been taken
under the attachment, but that the defendant is the owner of an interest
in real estate in the county, the justice before whom such action is pending shall, at the request of the plaintifff, forthwith certify his proceed
ings to the district court of the proper county; and thereupon the clerk
of said court shall docket said cause, and the action shall be proceeded
with in said court in all respects as if the same had originated therein.
AN ACT to authorize proceedings in justices' courts against garnishees.
[Took effect March 21, 187S.]
Be it enacted by the legislature of the state of Kansas:
SEC. ION 1. That in all actions arising upon contract
before justices of the peace, if the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall
file with the justice, at the time of or after the commencement of suit,
an affidavit stating that he has good reason to believe, and does believe,
that any person or corporation to be named, and within the county
where the action is brought, has property, money, goods, chattels, credits
and effects in his hands, or under his contract [control], belonging to the
defendant, or that such person or corporation is anywise indebted to the
principal defendant, whether such indebtedness be due or not, that the
principal defendant (naming him) is justly indebted to the plaintifff in
a given amount over and above all legal set off, and that the plaintifff
has good reason to and does believe that he will lose the same unless a
garnishee summons issue to the aforesaid person, a garnishee summons
shall be issued and personally served, in the same manner as an ordinary
summons, and from the time of such service the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintifff for all property, money and articles in his hands
or due from him to the defendant.
SEC. 2. Said garnishee summons shall be directed to
the proper officer, reciting the commencement of suit against the principal defendant and the filing of the affidavit, and thereupon commanding
said officer to warn and summons such person to appear before said
justice, on a day named, not more than twenty days from the date of
issuing the same, to make disclosure, under his oath, to be filed with the
said justice, touching his liability as garnishee of the principal defend
ant (naming him) as charged in said affidavit, and thenceforth to pay no
money and deliver no property to the defendant (naming him), and of
said writ to make due return.
SEC. 3. The garnishee shall appear before the justice
in accordance with the commands of said summons, and the same proceedings shall thereafter be had in case of the appearance or default of
. , B . n -L j -ii i-i *"£• T
said garnishee, as near as may be, and with like ettect as in proceedings
against a garnishee in attachment before justices of the peace.
AX ACT supplemental to an act entitled " An act to authorize proceedings in justice
court against garnishees," being chapter l&J, laws of 1872, providing the manner of
service in certain cases.
[Took effect Marca 15, 1879.]
Be it enacted by the legislature of the state of Kansas:
SEC. ION 1. That when under proceedings to which
this act is supplemental, it shall appear to the justice from the answers
of the garnishee that he has property, monies, credits, chattels or effects
in his hands, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, or that
the garnishee is anywise indebted to the defendant, and that the summo»3 issued in the action has not been and can not be served on the
defendant in the county in the manner prescribed by law, the justice
shall continue the cause for a period of not less than thirty nor more
than fifty days, and thereupon service may be made by publication in the
same manner and with like effect as is prescribed by law in proceedings
in attachment before justices of the peace.
SEC. 55. Justices of the peace sball have jurisdiction of
actions for the recovery of specific personal property not exceeding onehundred dollars in value, as herein provided.
amended, L. 1870, ch. 88, { 5; took effect March 10, 1870 See the cases to article 10,
work; also, to §13Uo, this chapter. Unrrett v. Wood, 8 Kas . £)! ; seeLesliev.
Shoemaker v. Simpson, 10 Has. 43; Stoue v. Bird, id. 488.
SEC. 56. An action for this purpose shall not be brought
until there is filed in the office of the justice an affidavit of the plaintifff,
his agent or attorney, showing: First, A description of the property
claimed. Second, That the plaintifff is the owner thereof, or has a special
ownership therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is
entitled to the immediate possession of the property. Third, That the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. Fourth, That it was
not taken in execution on any order or judgment against said plaintifff,
or if so taken on execution, that it is by statute exempt from seizure,
or for the payment of any tax, fine or amercement assessed against him,
or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this article, or any
other mesne or final process issued against said plaintifff; and, Fifth,
The actual value of the property. When several articles are claimed,
the value of each article shall be stated as neaily as practicable,
SEC. 57. The justice shall not issue a summons as here
jnafj-er provided, until there has been executed in his office, by one o'
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff to be approved by the justice, an
undertaking in not less than double the value of the property, as stated
in the affidavit, to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the
action, and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him, and if the property be delivered to him that he will return the
same to the defendant, if a return thereof be adjudged.
SEC. 58. Upon such affidavit and undertaking b^ing
executed and filed with the justice, he shall issue a summons as in other
cases, but in addition commanding the constable immediately to seize
and take into his custody, wherever they may be found in the county,
the goods and chattels mentioned in the affidavit, and deliver the same
to the plaintifff.
SEC. 59. The constable shall execute the writ by taking
j.^ pr0pert;y therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the
summons to the persons charged with the unlawful detention of prop
erty, or leave such a copy at his usual place of residence, and shall make
return of the time and manner of service, and any undertaking taken
by him.
SEC. 60. If, within twenty-four hours after service of
the copy of the summons, there is executed, by one or more sufficient
sureties of the defendant, to be approved 'by the constable, an under
taking to the plaintifff, in not less than double the amount of the value
of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, to the effect
that the defendant will deliver the property to the plaintifff if such
delivery be adjudged, and Avill pay all costs and damages that may be
awarded against him, the constable shall return the property to the
defendant. If such undertaking be not given within twenty-four hours
after the service of the order, the constable shall deliver the property to
the plaintifff.
SEC. 61. The plaintifff may, within twenty-four hours
from the time the undertaking mentioned in the preceding section is
given by the defendant, give notice to the constable mat he excepts to the
sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he must be deemed to
have waived all objections to them. When the plaintifff excepts, the
sureties must justify, upon notice, as bail on arrest. The constable shall
be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to
them is waived, as above provided, or until they justify.
SEC. 62. The affidavit of the plaintifff, as to the value of
the property, shall fix the jurisdiction of the justice so far as such value
is concerned; but the value of the property shall not be assessed against
the defendant at a greater amount than that sworn to by the plaintifff in
his affidavit.
SEC. 63. If the property has been delivered to the plaint•IP j i f -I L i i • i- i j? i • i i a • Lifl, and he tails to prosecute his action to imal judgment, the justice
shall, upon the application of the defendant or his attorney, empanel a
jury to inquire into the right of property, and the right of possession of
the defendant to the property taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that
the said property was the property of the defendant at the commence
ment of the action, or if the said jury be satisfied that the defendant
was entitled to the possession at such time, they shall find accordingly,
and shall further find the value of such property, or the value of the
possession thereof, and any dam ages for withholding the same as may be
just and proper.
SEC. 64. In all cases when the property has been delivered
to the plaintifff, when the jury shall find for the defendant, they
shall also find whether the defendant had the right of property, or the
right of possession only, at the commencement of the suit, and, if they
find either in his favor, they shall also find the value of the property, or
the value of the possession, and such damages for withholding said prop
erty as may be just and proper.
SEC. 65. The judgment in the cases mentioned in the
two preceding sections shall be for the return of the property, or for
the value thereof, or the value of the possession of the same, in case a
return cannot be had, and for damages for withholding said property,
and the costs of suit. .
SEC. 66. In all cases when the property has been delivii 11 i • i • «» i n . iiir»-,/.iii»i'/v> 11
ered to the plaintifff, where the jury shall find for the plaintifff on the
trial, or on inquiry of damages, they shall assess adequate damages to
the plaintifff for the illegal detention of the property, for which, with
costs of suit, the justice shall render judgment against tbe defendant.
SEC. 67. When the property claimed has not been
taken, the action may proceed as one for damages only, and the plaintifff
shall be entitled to such damages as may be right and proper.
SEC. 68. The constable, in executing the writ, may
break open any building or enclosure in which the property claimed, or
any part thereof, is concealed; but not until he has been refused an
entrance into said building or enclosure, and the delivery of the property,
after having demanded the same.
SEC. 69. Whenever it shall be made to appear to the
satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or otherwise,
that the defendant, or any other person, knowingly conceals the property
sought to be recovered, or, having control thereof, refuses to deliver the
same to the officer, the justice may commit such defendant, or other per
son, until he or they disclose where such property is, or deliver the same
to the officer.
SEC. 70. If any justice shall issue a writ to replevin
property, as is provided by this act, without the affidavit and undertakin» being executed and filed in his office, as is provided in this article,
the same shall beset aside at his costs, and he shall be liable, in dam
ages, to the party injured.
ARTICLE 6.— BILL OP PARTICULARS.
SECTION.
71. In what cases to be filed.
72. Must state what.
SECTION.
73. Time of filing.
74. Amendment.
SEC. 71. In all cases before a justice, the plaintifff, his
agent or attorney, shall file with such justice a bill of particulars of his
demand, and the defendant, if required by the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall file a like bill of particulars he may claim as a set-off;
and the evidence on the trial shall be confined to the items set forth in
. , , .,,
Said Dills.
9 Kas. Ill; Railroad Co. v. Yanz, 16 Kas. 583: Brenner v. Weaver, 1 Kas. 488; A.
K'y Co. v. Weaver, Hi Kas. 344; Bernstein v. Smith, 10 Kas. 60; Donnell v. Clark, 18
v. McKiulcy, 1 Kas. 317; Knaub v. Mitchell, 12 Kas. 57; Lobensteiu v. McGraw,
Co. v. Brown, 14 Kas. 557; Smith v. Burkhalter, 14 Kas. 351.
^4348) §72. SEC. 72. The bill of particulars must state, in a plain
and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of action or the
claim to be set off.
SEC. 73. The bill of particulars of the plaintifff must
be filed at the time the action is commenced, and that of the defendant
must be filed at or before the hour named in the summons for the
appearance of the defendant, unless further time be given by the justice,
for good cause shown.
SEC. 74. The bill of particulars may be amended at any
time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any
deficiency or omission in the items, when, by such amendment, substantial
justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made at the
time of or during the trial, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction
^e Justice, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse
party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be
granted. The justice may also, in his discretion, require, as a condition
of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the justice; but such payment cannot be required unless an adjourn
ment is made necessary by the amendment.
ARTICLE 7. — CHANGE OF PLACE OF TRIAL.
SECTION.
75. Causes of change of place of trial.
76. Changed to justice of same township,
when; changed to justice of adjoin
ing township, when.
SECTION.
77. Papers, etc., to be transmitted.
78. Costs.
79. What costs to be taxed, and how.
SEC. 75. If, on the return of process, or at any time
before trial shall have been commenced, either party shall file with the
justice of the peace before whom any cause is instituted or is pending
for trial, an affidavit, stating: First, That such justice is a material wit
ness for either party; or, Second, That he verily believes that he cannot
have a fair and imparti.il trial before such justice, on account of the bias
or prejudice of the said justice against the affiant; or, Third, If a jury
be demanded by the adverse party, then that he cannot, as he verily
believes, have a fair and impartial trial in such township, on account of
the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof, the trial of the case shall be
changed to some other justice of the peace, as provided in the next section.
SEC. 76. If the place of the trial be changed on account
Qr preju(jice of tne justice, or of his being a material witness
in the cause, such cause shall be transferred for trial before some other
justice of the peace of the same township, if there be one there legally
competent to try such cause; if there be no such justice within such
township, or if such change be granted on account of the bias or preju
dice of the citizens of such township against such party, the case shall
be taken to some justice in an adjoining township of the same county.
SEC. 77. The justice granting such change shall deliver
or transmit the papers in the cause, together with a certified transcript
of the proceedings before him, to the justice to whom such change may
be granted, who shall proceed therein, and have the same jurisdiction,
powers and duties, in all respects whatever, as if such suit had been
originally instituted before him.
SEC. 78. Before any such change shall be allowed, the
costs, as specified in. the next following section, shall be paid by the party
applying for such change, or he shall have confessed a judgment therefor before the justice granting the change.
SEC. 79. When such change is at the instance of the
plaintifff, he shall be taxed with all the costs which have accrued, and
which shall accrue in the cause, until such transcript and papers shall
be delivered to the justice to whom such cause is removed for trial; andB
when on the application of the defendant, he shall be taxed with the
costs which have accrued for issuing subpoenas to witnesses, and service
thereof, witness fees and costs of the justice for transferring the cause
to the docket of the other justice.
ARTICLE 8.- TRIAL.
SECTION.
80. Justice may adjourn trial, when.
81. May be adjourned upon application of
party, when.
82. Adjournment at return day may be
bad, how.
83. Party failing to appear, cause may
•proceed.
84. Proof of execution of instrument not
necessary unless affidavit filed.
85. Subpoenas for witnesses.
86. By whom and how served.
87. No fees for service, when.
88. Costs when witness not examined.
89. Warrant for arrest of witness may be
issued, when.
90. Fine in such case.
91. Liable to party for damages.
92. Deposition may be taken, in what case.
93. Action to proceed to trial at time ap
pointed.
94. Appearance and trial without process.
95. Jury may be demanded, when; num
ber and qualifications.
96. Adjournment when jury demanded.
SECTION.
97. How jury made up.
98. Summons of jury, its form.
99. Service of summons.
100. Liability of jurors for not attending,
etc.
101. Constable shall attend court; tales
men.
102. Upon adjournment, jurors to attend
without notice.
103. Objection to juror, how tried.
104. Challenge of talesmen.
105. Oath of jury.
106. Instructions to jury.
107. Jury to hear evidence and agree upon
verdict.
108. Shall deliver verdict to justice.
109. Proceedings when jury cannot agree.
110. New trial may be granted, when.
111. Opposite party to have notice of mo
tion for new trial. •
112. Bill of exceptions to be allowed and
signed, when.
112a. Bill of exceptions in all cases; time.
1126. What may be set forth in bill.
SEC. 80. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or
if the justice be actually engaged in other official business, he may
adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows: First,
TV here a party is in attendance who is not a resident of the county, or
where the defendant is in attendance, under arrest, the adjournment not
to exceed forty-eight hours, and the defendant, if under arrest, to con
tinue in custody. Second, In other cases, not to exceed eight days, unless
by consent of parties. If the trial be not adjourned, it must take place
at the time stated in the summons.
SEC. 81. The trial may be adjourned upon the ap plication
of either party, without the consent of the other, for a period not
exceeding thirty days, as follows: The party asking the adjournment
must, if required by his adversary, prove, by his oath or otherwise, that
he cannot, for want of material testimony, which he has been unable to
procure, safely proceed to trial.
SEC. 82. An adjournment may be had either at the
return day or any subsequent time to which the cause may stand
adjourned, on the application of either party, for a period not to exceed
ninety days from the time of the return of the summons, upon compli
ance with the provisions of the preceding section, and upon proof, by
oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justice, that
such party cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he desires
adjournment, for the want of material evidence, describing it; that the
delay has not been made necessary by any act or negligence on his part
since the action was commenced, and that he expects to procure the evi
dence at the time stated by him.
SEC. 83. If either partv fail to appear at the time speci„ \ . '. ° .... * . rr r
ned in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or fail to attend at
the time to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to file the necesgary bill of particulars, the cause may proceed at the request of the
adverse party; and in all cases where a counterclaim or set-off has been
filed before the dismissal of the cause by the plaintifff, the defendant shall
have the right to proceed with the trial of his claim.
SEC. 84. In no case shall it be necessary to prove the
execution of any written instrument upon which the action or counterclaim or set-off is founded, or any indorsement thereon, or the partnership
of the plaintifffs, unless the opposite party shall file an affidavit
denying the execution of such instrument, or the making of such indorse
ment, or the existence of such partnership.
SEC. 85. Any justice may issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending before
himself, or for the purpose ot taking depositions, or to perpetuate testi
mony.
SEC. 86. Subpoenas maybe served by a constable or any
other person, and shall be served by reading the same or stating the con
tents thereof to the witness, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual
place of residence.
SEC. 87. When not served by a constable or some per
son deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be charged in the
suit for serving it.
SEC. 88. If any witness, having been subpoenaed, attend,
and be not examined by either party, the costs of such witness shall be
paid by the party ordering the subpoena, unless the adverse party, by
confessing the matter or otherwise, render unnecessary the examination
of such witness.
SEC. 89. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of
a justice, by proof made before him, that any person has been duly served
with a subpoena to appear and give testimony before him in any matter
in which he has authority to require such witness to appear and testify,
that his testimony is material, and that he refuses or neglects to attend
as such witness, in conformity with such subpoena, the justice shall issue
a warrant to arrest the delinquent, for the purpose of compelling his
attendance and punishing his disobedience.
SEC. 90. When the person arrested is brought before
the justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify as a witness,
and no valid excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine on him not
exceeding five dollars. An entry of such fine, stating the reason thereof,
must be made by the justice in his docket; and thereupon shall have the
effect of a judgment in favor of the state of Kansas against the delin
quent, and may be enforced against his person or property.
SEC. 91. Every person subpoenaed as aforesaid, and
neglecting to appear or refusing to testify, shall also be liable to the
party in whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed, for aU damages
which such party shall sustain by reason of such delinquency.
SEC. 92. Depositions may be taken to be read in any
cause pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner, and subject
to the same rules and restrictions and rules of law, as in cases pending in
courts of record.
SEC. 93. At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall
have been demanded by either party, the justice shall proceed to try the
action, shall hear the proofs and determine the cause, according to law
and the right.
SEC. 94. Where parties agree to enter, without process,
before a justice, in an action, of which such justice has cognizance, the
justice shall enter the same on his docket and proceed to trial, judgment
and execution, in all respects in the same manner as if summons had
been issued, served and returned.
SEC. 95. In all civil actions, after an appearance of theb
defendant, and before the justice shall proceed to inquire into the merits
of the cause, either party may demand a jury to try the action, which
jury shall be composed of six good and lawful men, having the qualifica
tions of jurors in the district court, unless the parties shall agree on a
less number.
SEC. 96. When a jury is demanded, the trial of the case
must be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the jury; if
neither party desire an adjournment, the time must be determined by
the justice, and must be on the same day or within the next two days.
The jury must be immediately selected as herein provided.
SEC. 97. The justice shall write in a panel the names
of eighteen persons, citizen of the county, from which the defendant,
his agent or attorney, must strike one name, the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, one, and so on alternately, until each shall have stricken six
names, and the remaining six shall constitute the jury to try such case;
and if either party neglect or refuse to aid in striking the jury as afore
said, the justice shall strike the same in behalf of such party.
SEC. 98. The justice thereupon shall issue a sunwnons,
for the jury, in which the following form shall be observed, in substance,
as near as practicable: "The state of Kansas, county. The state
of Kansas to , constable of township: You are hereby
commanded to summon to appear before me at , in
said township, on the day of , A; D. , at
o'clock in the noon, to serve as jurors in a case pending before
me, then and there to be tried, and this they shall in no wise omit; and
have you then there this writ, with your doings thereon.
Given under my hand this day of , A. D. .
A. B., justice of the peace."
SEC. 99. The constable shall serve such summons by a
personal service thereof, and return the same 'indorsed with the names
of the persons summoned, at the time appointed for the trial of the
cause.
SEC. 100. Jurors, for neglecting or refusing to attend
when properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in attendance,
shall be liable to a like penalty, and be proceeded against in the same
manner, as witnesses who fail to attend or refuse to testify.
SEC. 101. The constable shall be in attendance on the
court, at and during the progress of the trial; and if, from challenge or
other cause, the panel shall not be full, he may fill the same in the same
manner as is done by the sheriff in the district court.
SEC. 102. When a jury shall be in attendance and the
cause shall be continued, the jurors must attend at the time and place
appointed for the trial, without further notice.
SEC. 103. If either party object to the competency of
.a juror, the question thereon must be tried in a summary manner by the
justice, who may examine the juror or other witness under oath.
SEC. 104. The plaintifff and defendant shall each be
entitled to challenge peremptorily two talesmen.
SEC. 105. The justice shall administer an path or
affirmation to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in difference
between the parties, and a true verdict give according to the evidence.
0*382) §106. SEC. 106. The justice shall, upon the request of either
party, instruct the jury upon any point of law arising in the case; but
such instructions shall be reduced to writing before they are given, and
shall be filed among the papers in the case.
SEC. 107. After the jury shall have been sworn, they
shall sit together and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and,
after hearing the same, shall be kept together in some convenient place,
under the charge of a constable, until they have agreed upon their ver
dict or shall be discharged by the justice.
SEC. 108. When the jurors shall have agreed upon
their verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice publicly, who shall enter
it upon his docket.
SEC. 109. Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that
a jury, sworn in any cause before him, cannot agree on their verdict,
after having consulted upon it a reasonable time, he may discharge them
•and continue the cause, and may, if required by either party, proceed to
strike another jury as hereinbefore provided. The cause shall be con
tinued until such time as the justice thinks reasonable, unless the par
ties or their attorneys agree on a longer or shorter time, or unless they
agree that the justice may render judgment on the evidence already hean?
before him.
SEC. 110- Ifc sha11 be lawful for the justice before
whom a cause has been tried, on motion of the party aggrieved, and
being satisfied that the verdict was obtained by fraud, partiality or undue
means' or th^ *ne ver<iict is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is
contrary to law, at any time within five days after the day of trial, to
grant a new trial; and he shall set a time for the new trial, of which the
opposite party shall have at least three days' notice.
SEC. 111. The opposite party shall also have a reasonble
notice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is not made on the
day of the former trial and in the presence of such party; such notice to
be given by the applying party. It' the new trial shall be granted, or
the jury unable to agree, the proceedings shall be, in all respects, as upon
the return of the summons.
SEC. 112. Iii all cases which shall be tried by a jurv
, >. ' ,° .. , ,, .,, i ,i i ii • , , ,J ' "i
before a justice of the peace, either party shall have the right to except
to the opinion of the justice upon any question of law arising during the
trial of the cause; and when either party shall allege such exception, it
shall be the duty of the justice to allow and sign a bill containing such
exception, if truly alleged, with the point decided, so that the same may
be made part of the record in the cause.
SEC. 13. Bills of exception may be made, signed and
sealed in any case tried before a justice of the peace, whether the action
be tried by a jury or by the justice; and such bill may be signed and
sealed at any time within ten days from the day on which judgment is
given in the action, and not thereafter.
487: Kykcndall v. Clinton, 3 Kas. t°5: tec, al?o, Lnlonde v. Collins, 5 Kas. 301:
5 Kns lti">; Kocfiler v. Ball, 2Kaa. 1(50: Small v. Douthitt, 1 Kas. 335.
SEC. 14. In all bills of exception it shall be competen(;
for the party preparing the same to set out the pleadings, motions
decisions of the justice of the peace thereon; and the whole of the
evidence given or so much as may be necessary to preserve the point or
points raised and decided on the trial, and the rulings and decisions of
the court and exceptions made thereto on the trial.
SEC. 113. Judgment that the action be dismissed with1 • i- i- i t t -LI i • ji r 11
put prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the following
cases: First. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action
before it is finally submitted. Second, When he fails to appear at the
time specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or upon
adjournment.
SEC. 114. When judgment shall have been rendered
• i i !• i j • i • i ,ie i • i 11
against a defendant, in his absence, the same may be set aside upon the
following conditions: First, That his motion be made within ten days
after such judgment was entered. Second, That he pays or confesses
judgment for the costs awarded against him. Third, That he file an
affidavit that he has a just and valid defense to the whole, or some part,
of the plaintifff's claim. Fourth, That he notifies, in writing, the oppo
site party, his agent or attorney, or causes it to be done, of the opening
of such judgment, and of the time and place of trial, at least five days
before the time, if the party resides in the county, and if he be not a
resident of the county, by leaving a written notice thereof at the office
of the justice, ten days before the trial.
SEC. 115. Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the justice, judgment must be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the
defendant has been arrested, or his property attached; in other cases, it
must be entered either at the close of the trial, or, if the justice then
desires further time to consider, on or by the fourth day thereafter, both
days inclusive.
SEC. 116. When the amount due to either party exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judgment, such
party may remit the excess, and judgment may be entered for the resi
due. A defendant need not remit such excess, and may withhold setting
the same off; and a recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or any
part thereof, shall not be a bar to his subsequent action for the amount
withheld.
SEC. 117. If the defendant, any time before trial,
offers, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified
sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore, with
the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer before the
trial, and fails to recover, in the action, a sum equal to the offer, he cannot
recover costs accrued after the offer, but costs must be adjudged
against him; but the offer, and a failure to accept it, cannot be given in
evidence or mentioned on the trial.
SEC. 118. When judgment is rendered in a case where
the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment, it must be so stated
in the judgment and entered on the docket.
SEC. 119. For the purpose of docketing in the district court, the abstract of a judgment of a justice of the peace shall be
in the following form (fill up the blanks as required):
" State of Kansas, county. , plaintifff, vs. ,
defendant. In justice's court, before , justice of the peace,
township, , 186—. Judgment entered for plaintifff (or
defendant). Debt, $•
Costs, $I
hereby certify that the
is a full and correct abstract of a judgment rendered by me iu
the suit above entitled. , Justice of the Peace."
ARTICLE 10— APPEAL.
SECTION.
120. Party may appeal from final judg
ment.
121. The undertaking, its conditions.
122. Transcript of proceedings, with un
dertaking, to be transmitted to
court above; trial de novo.
123. Clerk to file papers, and docket appeal.
124. Parties in district court, pleadings, etc.
125. Proceedings on failure to deliver
transcript.
126. Proceedings on failure to prosecute
appeal.
SECTION.
127. When no appeal entered, execution
to be issued.
128. Appellant to pay costs, when.
129. Liability of surety.
130. Cause of quashing appeal to be
stated in order of court.
131. Change, or renewal of undertaking.
132. Cases in which no appeal allowed.
132 a. Proceedings on appeal in the action
of forcible entry, etc.
133. Proceedings if justice's term of office
expires before appeal taken.
(4398) §120. SEO. 120. In all cases, not otherwise specially pro
vided for by law, either party may appeal from the final judgment of any
justice of the peace to the district court of the county where the judgJ, f 3 * ••
nient was rendered.
v. R'y Co. 13 Kas. B15; State v. Harpster, 15 Kas. 8&. Particular caces, see
4 Ka8. 183; Dooley v Foeter, 5 Kas. 2bO; Copcland v. Majors, V Kas. 101; German
lOti: Donnell v. Clark, 14 Kus. 157.
SEC. 121. The party appealing shall, within ten days
from rendition of the judgment, enter into an undertaking to the adverse
Part.Y< with at least one g°°d an(l sufficient surety, to be approved by
such justice, in a sum not less than fifty dollars in any case, nor less than
double the amount of the judgment and costs, conditioned: First, That
the appellant will prosecute his appeal to effect, and without unneces
sary delay. Second, That if judgment be rendered against him on the
appeal, he will satisfy such judgment and costs. Such undertaking need
not be signed by the appellant.
SEC. 122. The appeal shall be complete upon the filing
and approval of the undertaking as provided in section 121. The said
justice shall immediately make out a certified transcript of his proceedings
in the cause, and shall, within twenty days from the rendition of
the judgment, deliver or transmit to the clerk of the district court of
hjs county the said transcript, the undertaking on appeal, and all the
papers in the cause; all further proceedings before the justice of the peace
in *ne case sna^ cease and be stayed on the filing of the undertaking
with said justice; no notice of appeal shall be required to be filed or
served, and the case shall be tried de novo in the district court upon the
original papers on which the cause was tried before the justice, unless
the appellate court, in furtherance of justice, allow amended pleadings
to be made, or new pleadings to be filed.
SEC. 123. The clerk, on receiving such transcript and
other papers as aforesaid, shall file the same and docket the appeal; the
plaintifff in the court below shall be plaintifff in the district court.
t 8; took effect March 10. 1870.
SEC. 124. If the appeal be taken ten days or more
before the firgt day of the firgt term of the appellate court appointed to
be held thereafter, such appeal shall be tried at such court unless contmued
in the same manner as other actions pending therein are continued;
if the appeal be taken within ten days next preceding such term of the
court, no issue of fact joined in such action shall be tried at such first
term, unless upon the written consent of both parties to the action; but
it shall be competent for the court to hear a motion to dismiss such
g^pg,,^ or any Other proper motion, or to try any issue of law joined in
such action, if both parties be present in person or by attorney. If the
appeal be dismissed, the cause shall be remanded to the justice of the
peace, to be thereafter proceeded in, as if no appeal had been taken. On
receiving his fees in the case, the clerk of the court shall certify to the
justice the order of dismissal, and he shall remit with such order all the
papers returned by the justice on the appeal, except the transcript and
undertaking; he shall also state the amount of his fees in the case, which
shall be added to the costs in the case before the justice, and collected
with such other costs, and paid to the party advancing the same.
SEC. 125. Repealed, L. 1870, ch. 88, § 16. Took effect
March 10. 1870.
SEC. 126. Repealed, L. 1870, ch. 88, § 16. Took effect
March 10, 1870.
SEC. 127. Repealed, L. 1870, ch. 88, § 16. Took effect
March 10, 1870.
SEC. 128. If any person, appealing from a judgment
rendered in his favor, shall not recover a greater sum than the amount w
for which judgment was rendered, besides costs and the interest aceru- d
ing thereon, every such appellant shall pay the costs of such appeal. 4
SEC. 129. When any appeal shall be dismissed, or when
judgment shall be entered in the district court against the appellant, the
surety in the undertaking shall be liable to the appellee for the whole
amount of the debt, costs and damages recovered against the appellant.
SEC. 130. When any appeal taken to the district court
shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking or consum
mating the same, the cause for quashing shall be stated in the order of
the court, and a transcript of such order shall be filed with such justice,
who shall thereupon proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as
if no appeal had been taken.
SEC. 131. In proceedings on appeal, when the surety n
in the undertaking shall be insufficient, or such undertaking maybe insufficient
in form or amount, it shall be lawful for the court, on motion,
to order a change or renewal of such undertaking, and direct that the
same be certified to the justice from whose judgment the appeal was
taken, or that it be filed in said court.
SEC. 132. An appeal may be taken from the final
judgment of a justice of the peace in any case, except in cases hereinafter
stated, in which no appeal shall be allowed: First, On judgments
rendered on confession. Second, In jury trials, where neither party
claims in his bill of particulars a sum exceeding twenty dollars.
SEC. 11. In appeals taken by the defendant in actions
for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible and unlawful detention
of real property, the undertaking on appeal shall be conditioned that the
appellant will not commit or suffer waste to be committed on the prem-s
ises in controversy; and if, upon the further trial of the cause, judgment
be rendered 'against him, he will pay double the value of the use and
occupation of the property from the date of the undertaking, until the
delivery of the property, pursuant to the judgment, and all damages and
costs that may be awarded against him.
SEC. 133. When the term of office of a justice shall
expire between the date of the judgment and the time limited for appeal,
such justice may take the undertaking for appeal, at any time before he
has delivered his docket to his successor, and give the appealing party a
transcript. After the delivery of the docket, the undertaking shall be
given to his successor, and it snail be his duty to give the transcript, and
ao and perform all things required of his predecessor.
Brooks v. Wright
SEC. 134. Any person against whom a judgment may
be rendered, under the provisions of this act, except as hereinafter
excepted, may have a stay of execution, for the several periods of time
hereinafter mentioned, by entering into an undertaking to the adverse
party, within ten days after the rendition of the iudgment, with good
and sufficient surety, resident of the county, sucn as the justice shall
approve, conditioned for the payment of the amount of such judgment,
interests and costs that may accrue, which undertaking shall be entered
on the docket of the justice, and shall be signed by the surety; and in
case execution has been issued, it shall be immediately withdrawn by
said justice.
SEC. 135. The stay of execution hereby authorized
shall be graduated as follows, namely: First, On any judgment for
twenty dollars and under, thirty days. Second, On any judgment over
twenty dollars, and not exceeding fifty dollars, sixty days. Third, On
any judgment over fifty dollars, and not exceeding one hundred dollars,
ninety days. Fourth, On any judgment exceeding one hundred dollars,
one hundred and twenty days.
SEC. 136. No stay of execution on judgments renjere(j
^n f^e following cases shall be allowed: First, On judgments rendered against justices of the peace for refusing to pay over money by
fljgjjj collected or received in their official capacity. Second, On judg
ments against justices for not reporting all fines as required by law.
Third, On any judgment rendered against a constable, for failing to
make return, making false return, or refusing to pay over money col
lected in his official capacity. Fourth, On judgments against bail for
the stay of execution. Fifth, Where judgment is rendered in favor of
bail who have been compelled by judgment to pay money on account of
their principal. Sixth, On judgments obtained by constables on under
takings executed to them for the delivery of property.
SEC. 12. In cases where execution on any judgment
shall be stayed, as provided by sections 134 and 135 of said chapter 81,
an<^ suc^ Judgment shall not be paid or satisfied, the justice, after the
stay shall have expired, shall issue an execution on such judgment
ag^gf; tne judgment debtor and his surety, which executipn shall be in
the following form:
County of -, ss.
The state of Kansas, to A. B., constable of
greeting :
in said county,
Whereas, C. D., on the
day of- , 187—, in an action then
pending before the undersigned, justice of the peace, recovered a judg
ment against E. F. for the sum of dollars, and the further sum
of dollars as costs of suit: And whereas, on the day of
, 187—, G. H. entered into an undertaking, as surety for the said
E. F., for a stay of execution for days, which time has now
elapsed; and whereas, the said judgment still remains unsatisfied: Now,
thereforee, you are hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels of
the said C. D. [E. F.], you cause the said judgment and costs to be satis
fied as provided by law: and for want of sufficient goods and chattels of
the said C. D. [ E. F.J, that you cause such judgment and costs to be satis
fied out ot the goods and chattels of the said G. H., and you are hereby
required to make a return of this execution, with your certificate thereon,
showing the manner in which you have executed the same, within thirty
davs from the time of your receipt hereof.
Witness my hand at in said county, this day of ,
187—.
J. K., Justice of the Peace.
'ARTICLE 12.— EXECUTION.
SECTION.
SECTION.
137. Execution may issue by justice or his
successor, within what time.
133. When issued without demand.
139. By whom issued and to whom di
rected; its requisites.
140. Execution against joint debtors, some
of whom not served.
141. Constable liable if he omit to arrest,
or permit escape of debtor.
142. Sheriff may discharge prisoner, when.
143. Time and conditions of confinement.
144. Prisoner may be discharged on affi
davit.
145. Constable liable for amount of execu
tion, in what cases.
146. Notice of sale of property taken in
execution.
147. Justice or constable not to purchase.
148. Allowance for keeping stock.
149. Inventory of goods sold to bo an
nexed to return to execution.
150. Schedule of goods and chattels unsold
to be returned with execution; pro
ceedings thereupon.
151. Security for re-delivery of property.
152. Constable levying on goods and chat
tels claimed by another person than
defendant, may require security of
plaintifff.
152 a. Trial of right of property.
1526. Proceedings upon trial had.
152 c. Costs; non-liaoility of constable.
153. Landlord and tenant not affected by
sale of crops, when.
154. Justice may issue further process,
when.
155. When execution returned unsatisfied,
garnishee may be ordered to ap
pear.
156. Order, how issued; subsequent pro
ceedings same as in attachment.
157. Earnings of debtor not to be applied
to payments of debts, when.
157 a. When justice may issue execution
against plaintifff tor costs.
SEC. 137. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
before a justice of the peace may issue by the justice before whom
the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, on the application
of the party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from
the entry of the judgment or the date of the last execution issued
thereon.
SEC. 138. It shall be the duty of the justice, if the
ii 111.1 -i i i i • n T I • i ,
case be not appealed, taken up on error, docketed m the district court, or
bail has not been given for the stay of execution, at the expiration of
ten days from the entry of the judgment, to issue execution without
a demand, and proceed to collect the judgment unless otherwise directed
by the judgment creditor.
SEC. 139. The execution must be directed to a constable
of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the judgment
•was rendered, or by his successor in office, and must bear date the day of
its delivery to the officer to be executed; it must intelligibly refer to the
judgment by stating the names of the parties, and the name of the jus-5
tice before whom, and of the county and township where, and the time
•when, it was rendered; the amount of the judgment, and, if less than
the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It must require the
constable substantially as follows: First, If it be a case where the de
fendant cannot be arrested, it must direct the officer to collect the
amount of the judgment out of the personal property of the debtor,
and pay the same to the party entitled thereto. Second, If it be a case
where any of the judgment debtors are certified on the docket as surety,
it shall command that the money be made of the personal property of
the principal debtor, and, for want thereof, of the personal property of
the surety. In such case, the personal property of the principal, sub
ject to execution within the jurisdiction, shall be exhausted before any
of the property of the surety shall be taken in execution. Third, If it
be a case where the defendant may be arrested, in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if sufficient property of the defendant,
to the execution, cannot be found to satisfy the judgment, that
he arrest the debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he
pays the judgment or be discharged according to law, unless the execu
tion be accompanied by an order of arrest. Fourth, It must, in all
cases, direct the officer to make return of the execution, and a certifi
cate thereon, showing the manner iu which he has executed the same,
in thirty days from the time of his receipt thereof.
SEC. 14°- UP°n an execution on a judgment against
debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons was not served, the
execution must contain a direction to collect the amount of the joint
property of the person upon whom the summons was served, to be speci
fied by name. If such judgment be also such that the defendants are
subject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify the names of
those defendants served with the summons, who may be arrested for the
want of property.
SEC. 14L A constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest
a debtor, or, after arrest, suifer him to go at large before the return day,
subject only to the liability for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if he
fails to have either the money or the person of the debtor in custody at
the expiration of the thirty days.
SEC. 142. It shall be lawful for the sheriff or jailor
receiving any person imprisoned on any execution issued in any civil
proceedings, at any time where there is no money in his hands to pay
for the sustenance of such prisoner, to discharge him from prison.
SEC. 143. The debtor, committed as herein provided,
may be held in prison ten days, and if he be a person without a family
[for which he provides? ], one day in addition for every dollar over ten due
on the execution; or, if he have a family for which he provides, one day
in addition for every two dollars over twenty due on the execution.
SEC. 144. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor that
he has a family, for which he provides, specifying by name one or more
persons, members of such family, and the place of their residence, is suffi
cient evidence thereof to authorize his discharge by the jailor.
SEC. 145- A constable is liable to the party in whose
favor an execution issued to him, for the amount thereof, in the follow
ing cases: First, When he suffers thirty days to elapse without making
a return thereof to the justice, and paying to him or the party entitled,
the money collected thereon by him. Second, When he willfully and
carelessly omits to levy on property within thirty days, or if the defend
ant be liable to be imprisoned, then to arrest and commit him to the
jail of the county within thirty days.
SEC. 146. All property taken in execution, under the
provisions of this act, shall be advertised for sale at four of the most
public places in the township where such property was seized, at least
ten days previous to the time appointed for such sale, which sale shall
be held between the hours of ten o'clock A. M., and four o'clock P. M.,
at the house or on the premises where such property was taken, or at
one of the most public places within the township.
SEC. 147' .It; sha11 not ** lawful for anY justice of the
peace who issued the execution, or for the constable holding the execu
tion, to purchase, either directly or indirectly, any property sold on such
execution; and any justice or constable who shall offend against the
provisions of this section, shall forfeit and pay for every such offense
any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars nor less than five dollars, to
be recovered by civil action in the name of the state of Kansas, before
any court having jurisdiction thereof, for the use of the county where
such offense was committed, und shall, moreover, be liable to the action
of the party injured thereby.
SEC. 148. When any cattle or live stock shall be taken
in execution, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace who issued
the execution, or other justice charged with the duty of collecting the
judgment whereon such execution issued, to allow the constable, for
keeping of the same, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed and col
lected as other costs in the suit.
SEC. 149. When a constable shall levy on and sell any
goods and chattels, he shall make out and annex to his return to the
execution, in virtue of which such sale was made, a true inventory of all
such property and of each article thereof, and the price at which the
same was sold; and for each and every neglect to return a true and
accurate schedule or inventory of property sold, or remaining unsold for
want of bidders, or other just cause, and, if sold, the price at which the same
was sold, each and every constable guilty of such neglect shall forfeit
and pay, on conviction thereof, any sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars, to be recovered by action in the name of the state of Kansas, for
the use of the party injured thereby, to be prosecuted before any court
having cognizance thereof.
SEC. 150. Where a constable shall have levied on any
goods and chattels which remain unsold for want of bidders, or other
just cause, it shall be his duty to return with the execution a schedule
of all such goods and chattels; and the justice shall, unless otherwise
directed by the party for whom such execution issued, or his agent,
immediately thereafter issue an order, thereby commanding any con
stable to whom the same may be directed or delivered, to expose such
property to sale; which sale and the proceeding thereon shall be the
same as if such property had been sold on the original execution.
SEC. 151. Any constable having levied on goods and
chattels, of which he permits the party against whom the execution
issued to retain the possession, is hereby authorized to take such security
for his own indemnity as he may require, that such property shall be
delivered at the time and place appointed for the sale thereof.
SEC. 152. If the constable, by virtue of any attachnient
or execution, shall levy the same on any goods and chattels claimed
by any person other than the defendant, or be requested by the plaintifff
to levy on any such goods and chattels, the officer may require the
plaintifff to give him an undertaking, with good and sufficient securities,
to pay all costs and damages he may sustain by reason of the detention
or sale of such property; and until such undertaking shall be given, the
officer may refuse to proceed as against such property.
SEC. 1. When a constable shall levy on or attach
property, claimed by any person or persons, other than the party against
•whom the execution or attachment issued, the claimant or claimants
,
shall give three days' notice, in writing, to the attachment or execution
creditor, his attorney, or his agent, or if not found within the county,
then such notice shall be served by leaving a copy thereof at his usual
place of abode in such county, of the time and place of the trial of the
right to such property, which trial shall be had before some justice of
the township, at least one day prior to the time appointed for the sale of
such property.
SEC. 2. If, on the trial, the justice shall be satisfied,
from the proof, that the property, or any part thereof, belongs to the
claimant or claimants, such justice shall render judgment against the
party in whose favor such execution or attachment issued for the costs,
and issue execution therefore, and shall, moreover, give a written order to
the constable, who levied on, or who may be charged with the duty of
selling such property, directing him to restore the same, or so much
thereof as may have been found to belong to such claimant or claimants:
Provided, That either party may at or before the time of trial call for a
•jury, and in that case, the mode of drawing, and all proceedings there
' therein], shall be conducted in all respects as is now provided for trial
fey jury, before justices of the peace.
SEC. 3. But if the claimant or claimants fail to establis"
hi8 or their right to such property, or to any part thereof, the justice
shall render judgment against such claimant or claimants for the costs
which have accrued on account of such trial, and issue execution theref°r;
an<* *ne constable shall not be liable to the claimant or claimants
for the property so taken.
I*436) § 153« SKC- 153. Iii all cases where any lands may have been
let, reserving rent in kind, and when the crops or emblements growing
or grown thereon, shall be levied on or attached by virtue of any execu
tion, attachment or other process against the landlord or tenant, the
interest of such landlord or tenant, against whom such process was not
issued, shall not be affected thereby; but the same may be sold, subject
to the claim or interest of the landlord or tenant against whom such
process did not issue.
SEC. 15*- In cases wnere the constable shall make it
appear, to the satisfaction of the justice, that he has been deprived of an
opportunity of levying an execution within the time prescribed by this
act, or otherwise prevented from making the whole of the money therein
required to be made, and shall make return to the justice who issued the
same to that effect, such justice is hereby authorized and required to
issue further process of execution for the amount or balance remaining
unsatisfied, which shall be served and returned in all respects as other
executions are under this act.
SEC. 155. When an execution issued by a justice of
the peace shall have been returned unsatisfied, the judgment creditor,
j^ agent or attorney, may file an affidavit with the justice, setting forth
that he has good reason to and does believe that any person or corpora
tion, to be named, and within the county, has property of the defendant,
or is indebted to him, and thereupon the justice shall issue an order to
such garnishee to appear before him, on a day to be named, and answer
such questions as may be propounded to him by the judgment creditor
touching the property of the judgment debtor in his possession or under
his control, and the amount owing by him to the judgment debtor,
whether due or not.
SEC. 156. Such order shall be issued in the same manner
as a summons, and the subsequent proceedings upon such order shall
be the same and have the same effect as proceedings against a garnishee
in case of attachment, as near as may be.
SEC. 157. The earnings of the debtor for his personal
services, at any time within three months next preceding the issuing of an
execution, cannot be applied to the payment of his debts, when it ia
made to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings
are necessary for the maintenance of a family supported wholly or partly
by his labor.
SEC. 1. That upon the return of an execution issuad
from any justice's court, and returned unsatisfied by the constable to
whom it is issued, or when execution has been withheld by order of
plaintifff for a period of ninety days, the justice may, on his own motion,
or on application of any party interested in the costs of the action, issue
execution against the plaintifff in said action for the cost made by said
plaintifff. '
SEC. 158. Any justice, within his proper county, shall
have power to inquire, in the manner hereinafter directed, as well against
those who make unlawful and forcible entry into lands and tenements,
and detain the same, as against those who, having a lawful and peace
able entry into lands or tenements, unlawfully and by force hold the
same; and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that an unlawful and forci
ble entry has been made, and that the same lands and tenements are
held by force, or that the same, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully,
then said justice shall cause the party complaining to have restitution
thereof.
SEC. 159. Proceedings under this article may be had
in all cases against tenants holding over their Sserms; in sales of real
estate on executions, orders, or other judicial process, when the judg
ment debtor was in possession at the time of the rendition of the judg
ment or decree, by virtue of which such sale was made; in sales by
executors, administrators, guardians, and on partition, where any of the
parties to the partition were in possession at the commencement of the
suit, after such sales, so made, on execution or otherwise, shall have been
examined by the proper court, and the same, by said court, adjudged
legal ; and in cases where the defendant is a settler or occupier of lands
or tenements without color of title, and to which the complainant has
the right of possession. This section is not to be construed as limiting
the provisions of the first preceding section.
SEC. 160. Judgments, either before a justice or in the
district court, in actions brought under this article, shall not be a bar to
any after action brought by either party.
SEC. 161. It shall be the duty of the party desiring to
commence an action under this article, to notify the adverse party to
leave the premises, for the possession of which the action is about to be
brought, which notice shall be served at least three days before commenc
ing the action, by leaving a written copy with the defendant, or at his
usual place of abode, if he cannot be found; such notice may also be
served by leaving a copy thereof with some person over twelve years of
age, on the premises described in the notice.
SEC. 162. The summons shall not issue herein until
the plaintifff shall have filed his complaint in writing, under oath, with
the justice, which shall particularly describe the premises so entered
upon or detained, and shall set forth either an unlawful and forcible
entry and detention, or an unlawful and forcible detention after a peacefal or lawful entry of the described premises.
SEC. 163. The summons shall be issued and directed,
shall state the cause of complaint, and the time and place of trial, and
shall be served and returned as in other cases. It may also be served by
leaving a copy thereof with some person over twelve years of age, on the
premises sought to be recovered. Such service shall be at least three
days before the day of trial appointed by the justice.
SEC. 164. If the defendant does not appear in accord
ance with the requisitions of the summons, and it shall have been prop
erly served, the justice shall try the cause as though he was present.
SEC. 165. Xo continuance shall be granted for a longer
period than eight davs, unless the defendant applying therefore shall give
an undertaking to the adverse party, with good and sufficient surety, to
be approved by the justice, conditioned for the payment of all damages,
and double the rent that may accrue, if judgment be rendered against
the defendant.
SEC. 166- If the sui* be not continued, place of trial
changed, or neither party demand a jury upon the return day of the
summons, the justice shall try the cause; and if, after hearing the evidenc?,
he shall conclude that the complaint is not true, he shall enter
judgment against the plaintifff for costs; if he find the complaint true, he
shall render a general judgment against the defendant, and in favor of
the plaintifff, for restitution of premises and costs of suit; if he find the
complaint true in part, he shall render a judgment for the institution of
< such part only, and costs shall be taxed as the justice shall deem just and
equitable.
SEC. 167. If a jury be demanded by either party, the
proceedings until the empaneling thereof shall be in all respects as in
other cases. The jury shall be sworn or affirmed to well and truly try
and determine whether the complaint of (naming the plaintifff), about to>
be laid before them, is true, according to the evidence. If the jury shall
find the complaint true, the}' shall render a general verdict of guilty
against the defendant; if not true, then a general verdict of not guilty;
if true in part, then a verdict setting fortli the facts they find true.
SEC. 168. The justice shall enter the verdict upon hia
docket, and render such judgment in the action, as if the facts authorizing
the finding of such verdict had been found to be true by himself.
SEC. 169. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in
cases under this head, upon questions of law, may be taken by either
party, whether tried by jury or otherwise.
SEC. 170. Where a judgment of restitution shall be
entered by a justice, he shall, at the request of the plaintifff, his agent
or attorney, issue a writ of execution thereon, which shall be in the fol
lowing form, as near as practicable: "The state of Kansas, county.
The state of Kansas to any constable of - county:
Whereas, in a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or the
forcible detention, as the case may be), of the following described prem
ises, to wit: -, lately tried before me, wherein - was plaintifff,
and -was defendant, judgment was rendered on the -day of
-, A. D. -, that the plaintifff have restitution of said prem
ises; and also that he recover costs in the sum of -: you, thereforee,
are hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith removed
from said premises, and the said plaintifff to have restitution of the
same; also, that you levy of the goods and chattels of the said defend
ant, and make the costs aforesaid, and all accruing costs, and of this
writ make legal service and due return. Witness my hand, this -day of -, A. D. -. A. B., Justice of the Peace."
SEC. 171. The officer shall, within ten days after
receiving the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintifff to the
possession of the premises, and shall levy and collect the costs and make
return, as upon other executions. If the officer shall receive a notice
from the justice that the proceedings have been stayed by proceedings
in error, he shall immediately delay all further proceedings upon the
execution; and if the premises have been restored to the plaintifff, he
shall immediately place the defendant in the possession thereai, and
return the writ with his proceedings and costs taxed thereon.
SEC. 172. A justice of the peace may appoint a con. i i ' ° iii f J • i 'ii • • -i i
stable or constables tor a special purpose, either in civil or criminal
cases, whenever such appointment may become necessary, in the following cases: Where there is no constable in the township; in the case of
disability of one of the regular constables in the township; where the9
constable therein is a party to the suit; when, from the pressure of offi
cial business, the constables therein are not enabled to perform the duties
required by the office. The justice making the appointment shall make
a memorandum thereof on his docket, and shall require the person
appointed to take an oath, as in other cases.
SEC. 173. The person so appointed by the justice, after
taking such oath, shall have the same authority, be subject to the same
penalties, and entitled to the same fees, as other constables.
SEC. 174. Such justice shall stand as surety, and shall
be in that character liable, he and his sureties, for any neglect of duty
or any illegal proceedings on the part of such constable so by him ap
pointed.
SEC. 175. All constables shall be ministerial officers
in justices' courts in their respective counties, and civil and criminal
process may be executed by them throughout the county, under the
restrictions and provisions of the law. They may appoint one or more
deputies, who may perform the same duties as their principals, and such
principals shall be responsible, upon their official bond, for the acts of
said deputies.
SEC. 176. It shall be the duty of every constable to
serve all warrants, writs, precepts, executions and other process to himc
directed and delivered, and, in all respects whatever, to do and perform
all things pertaining to the office of constable.
SEC. 177. In discharging their duties, constables may
call to their aid the power of the county, or such assistance as may be
necessary.
SEC. 178. It shall be the duty of every constable, to
make due return of all process, to him directed and delivered, at the
proper office and on the proper return day thereof; or, if the judgment
be docketed in the district court, or appealed, upon which he has an exe
cution, on notice to return the execution, stating thereon such fact.
SEC. 179. It shall be the duty of every constable, on
the receipt of any writ or other process (subpoenas excepted), to note
thereon the time of receiving the same; he shall, also, state in his return
on the same, the time and manner of executing it.
SEC. 180. No constable shall make a return on any
process of "not found " as to any defendant, unless he shall have been
once, at least, at the usual place of residence of the defendant, if such
defendant have any in the county.
SEC. 181. In serving process, either civil or criminal,
and in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise restricted by law,
the authority of a constable shall extend throughout the county in
which he may be appointed; and in executing and serving process
issued by a justice of the peace, he shall have and exercise the same
authority and powers over goods and chattels and the persons of parties
as is granted by law to a sheriff or coroner, under like process issued
from courts of record.
SEC. 182. When it shall become the duty of the con
stable to take the body of any person to the jail of the county, he
shall deliver to the sheriff or the jailor a certified copy of the execu
tion, commitment or other process, whereby he holds such person, in
custody, and return the original to the justice who issued the same,
which copy shall be sufficient authority to the sheriff or jailor to keep
the prisoner in jail until discharged by due course of law.
SEC. 183. Constables shall pay over to the party entitled
thereto all money received by them in their official capacity, if
demand be made by such party, his agent or attorney, at any time
before he returns the writ upon which he has received it; if not paid
over by that time, he shall pay the same to the justice when he returns
the writ.
SEC. 184. Constables shall be liable to ten per cent.
penalty upon the amount of damages for which judgment may be
entered against them for failing to make return, making a false return,
or failing to pay over money by them collected or received in their
official capacity; and such judgment must include, in addition to the
damages and costs, the penalty herein provided.
ARTICLE 15.— MISCELLANEOUS..
SECTION.
186. Civil code to apply to justices' courts,
when applicable.
186. Justice may require plaintifff to give
security.
187. Or plaintifff who removes after action
commenced.
188. Docket of justice shall contain what.
189. How and when entries made.
190. The index; how papers to be kept.
191. At expiration of term, justice to de
posit his official docket, papers,
etc., with his successor.
192. Justice receiving them to receipt
therefore.
193. Justice receiving docket, papers, etc.,
of another, may proceed, how.
194. When two justices equally entitled,
how successor designated.
SECTION.
195. In case of disability or absence of
justice, other justice of same town
ship to try cause.
196. Papers issued, void if they contain »
blank.
197. Justice may depute whom to serve
summons.
198. Authority of such person; fees.
199. Contempts, punishable by justice.
200. Proceedings in such cases.
201. The same.
202. Attorneys at law may appear before
justice: appearance to be noted in
justice's docket.
203. Justice not to purchase judgment;
penalty.
204. Suits pending not affected by this act
205. Process may be directed to the sheriff.
206. Repeal.
207. Take effect.
SEC. 185. The provisions of an act entitled "An act
to establish a code of civil procedure," which are, in their nature, appli-cable to the jurisdiction and proceeding before justices, and in respect
to which no special provision is made by statute, are applicable to proceedings
before justices of the peace.
W; Alvuy v. Wilson, « Kas. 406.
SEC. 186. When a person intending to bring an action
before a justice of the peace is anon-resident of the county in which he
intends to commence such action, the justice shall, previous to his issuing
process, and in all other cases the justice may, either before or after
^ne issuing process, require the plain tin to give security for the costs of
-suit, which may be done by depositing a sum of money deemed by the
j ustice to be sufficient to discharge the costs that may accrue in the ac
tion, or by giving an undertaking, with surety approved by the justice,
payable to the adverse party, for the payment of all costs that may ac
crue in the action; where security is required after suit brought, if the
order for security be not complied with, the justice may dismiss the
action at the costs of the plaintifff.
SEC. 187. If any plaintifff or plaintifffs, after commencing
an action before a justice, in the county in which he or they reside,
remove out of the county, the justice may require such plaintifff or plaintifffs
to deposit a sum equal to the costs that have accrued, and that prob
ably will accrue; or require, in place thereof, that such party give suf
ficient surety for all costs which have accrued, or which may accrue in the
action ; and in default to do either, shall dismiss the action.
SEC. 188. Every justice of the peace must keep a book,
denomiiiated a docket, which shall be furnished by the proper township,
in which must be entered, by him, the proper title of every action in
which the writ is served, or when the parties voluntarily appear; the
date of the writ; the time of its return; and if an order to arrest the
defendant, or attach property, was made, such fact must be stated,
together with the affidavit upon which such order was made; the filing
of .the bill of particulars of either party; which of the parties, if either
of them, appear at the trial; every adjournment, stating upon whose
application, whether on oath or consent, and to what time. When trial
by jury is demanded, the demand must be stated, and by whom made,
the names of the jurors selected, and the time appointed for the trial;
the names of the jurors who appear, and of those sworn; the names of
all witnesses sworn, and at whose request; the exceptions to the ruling
of the justice on questions of law, taken by either party; the verdict of
the jury, and when received. If the jury disagree, and are discharged,
that fact must be stated. The judgment of the justice, specifying the
items of costs included, and the time when rendered; the issuing of the
execution, and orders to sell, when issued, and to whom the renewals
thereof, if any, were made; the return, and when made; and a statement
of any money paid to the justice, and by whom; the giving of a tran
script, to be filed in the clerk's office, and when given; it appeal be taken,
the undertaking*, and the time of entering into the same, and by which
party taken; the satisfaction of the judgment, and the time of satisfying
the same.
SEC. ion
specified, must be entered under the title of the action to which they
relate, and at the time when they occurred, except that the bill of exceptions
in regard to the ruling on questions of law or evidence need not
be entered until after the judgment, unless required by the justices, or
one of the parties. Such entries in a justice's docket, or a transcript
thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor in office, shall be evidence
to prove the facts stated therein.
SEC. 190. Each justice must keep an alphabetical
index to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the parties
to each judgment, with reference to the page of the entry. The names
of the plaintifffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order
of the first letter of the family name. He shall number the cases pro
gressively upon his docket, and he shall correspondingly number the
papers in each case; he shall keep the entire papers in each action
together, and in packages of a proper and convenient size, and in the
order in which the cases are numbered on his docket.
SEC. 191. It is the duty of every justice, upon the
expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his official
docket, as well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in his
custody, together with all files and papers, laws and statutes pertaining
to his office, there to be kept as public records and property. If there be no
successor elected and qualified, or if the office becomes vacant by death,
removal from the township, or otherwise, before his successor is elected
and qualified, the dockets and papers in possession of such justice must
be deposited with the nearest justice in the township, if there be any;
and if there be none, then with the nearest in the county, there to be
kept until a successor shall be chosen and qualified, then to be delivered
over to such successor, on request.
(^476) §192. SEC. 192. A justice receiving by succession or on
deposit any such docket, papers and laws, shall, if requested, give a
receipt therefore to the person from whom he receives the same.
SEC. 193. The justice with whom the docket of another
may bs deposited, either during a vacancy or as his successor, is hereby
authorized, while having such docket legally in his possession, to issue
execution on any judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not dock
eted in the district court, in the same manner and with the same effect
as the justice by whom the judgment was rendered might have done, to
take bail in appeal, to issue certified transcripts of judgments on such
docket, and proceed in all cases in like manner as if the same had been
originally had or instituted before him.
SEC. 194. When two or more justices are equally
entitled to be deemed the successor in office of a justice, the county commissioners shall designate which justice is to be deemed the successor of
the justice going out of office, or whose office has become vacant, and
shall enter a certificate in the last docket of the justice going out of
office, or whose office is vacant, of their determination, before the same
is delivered to such successor.
SEC. 195. In case of sickness or other disability, or
necessary absence of a justice at the time appointed for trial, another
justice of the same township may, at his request, attend in his behalf,
and shall, thereupon, become vested with the power, for the time being,
of the justice before whom the summons was returnable. In that case,
the proper entry of the proceeding before the attending justice, sub
scribed by him, must be made in the docket of the justice before whom
the writ was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the justice before
whom the summons was returnable, must resume jurisdiction.
SEC. 196. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up, without a blank to
be filled by another; otherwise it is void.
SEC. 197. A justice, at the request of a party, and on
being satisfied that it is expedient, may specially depute any discreet
person of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a sum
mons or execution, with or without an order to arrest the defendant or
to attach property. Such deputation must be in writing on the process.
SEC. 198. The person so deputed has the authority of
* i i S • i i • in • i • T c \.
a constable m relation to the service, execution and return of sucn
process, and is subject to the same obligations; but there can be no fee
for his services taxed in the bill of costs,
SEC. 199. The justice may punish, as for a contempt,
-n *• n i»n • , i^ii T^- 11
persons guilty ot the following acts, and no others: Disorderly, con
temptuous or insolent behavior toward the justice, tending to interrupt
the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding; willful resistance,
in the presence of the justice, to the execution of a lawful order or
process made or issued by him.
SEC. 200. A warrant of arrest may be issued by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought be
fore the justice, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse
must be given. The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may con
vict him of the offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprison
ment, or both; such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such impris
onment ten days.
SEC. 201. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered on his docket; a
warrant of commitment to the jail of the county, until the fine be paid,
or for the term of imprisonment, may then be issued. Such warrant
must contain a transcript of the entry in the docket, and the same must
be executed by any constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailor
of the county.
SEC. 202. Attorneys at law, duly admitted to practice
as such, may appear for and represent any party before a justice, to the
same extent and with the same effect as in the district court. When an
attorney appears for a party, the justice shall note the fact of such ap
pearance on his docket in the case in which the attorney appears, which
shall have the same effect as an appearance of record in the district
court.
SEC. 203. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the
peace to purchase any judgment upon any docket in his possession; and
tor so doing, for every sued offense, such justice shall forfeit and pay a
sum not more than fifty dollars nor less than ten dollars, to be recovered
by action before any court having jurisdiction thereof, and when col
lected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county where such offense
was committed.
SEC. 204. The provisions of this act do not apply to
proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect. They shall
be conducted to final judgment and determination in all respects as if it
had not been adopted.
SEC. 205. All process, provided for by this act, may be
directed to the sheriff of the county, in the discretion of the justice, and
be by the sheriff served and returned in the same manner as provided for
in cases where the same is issued to the constable.
SEC. 206. That " An act regulating the jurisdiction
and procedure before justices of the peace, and the duties of constables
in civil cases," approved February 10, 1859, and all acts amendatory and
supplemental thereto, be and the same are hereby repealed.
SEC. 207. This act shall take effect and be in force
from and after its publication in the statute book. Approved March 2,
1S6S.

