§ 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil proced
ure of the state of Kansas. 

§ 2. The rule of the common law, that
statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no application to
this code. Its provisions, and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally con
strued, with a view to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtaining jus
tice. 

§ 3. Remedies in the courts of justice
are divided into: First, Actions. Second, Special proceedings. 

§ 4. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a
court of justice by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the punish
ment of a public offense. 

§ 5. Every other remedy is a special pro
ceeding. 

§ 6. Actions are of two kinds: First, Civil.
Second, Criminal. 

§ 7. A criminal action is one prosecuted by
the state as a party, against a person charged with a public offense, for the pun
ishment thereof. 

§ 8. Every other is a civil action. 

§ 9. Where the violation of a right
admits of both a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not
merged in the other. 

§ 10. The distinction between actions at law
and suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore exist
ing, are abolished; and in their place there shall be, hereafter, but one form of
action, which shall be called a civil action. 

§ 11. In such action, the party complaining
shall be known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 

§ 12. There can be no feigned issues; but a question of
fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be tried by a jury upon an order for
the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such
order is the only authority necessary for a trial. 

§ 13. This article shall not apply to actions
already commenced, ont the statutes now in force shall be applicable to such
cases, according to the subject of the action, and without regard to the form.

§ 14. Any right of action, which shall
have been barred by any statute heretofore in force, shall not be deemed to be
revived by the provisions of this article. 

§ 15. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this article, after the cause of action shall have ac
crued ; but where, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by stat
ute, the action shall be governed by such limitation. 

§ 16. Actions for the recovery of
real property, or for the determination of any adverse right or interest therein,
can only be brought within the periods hereinafter prescribed, after the cause of
action shall have accrued, and at no time thereafter:
First, An action for the recovery of real property sold on execution, brought
by the execution debtor, his heirs, or any person claiming under him, by title
acquired, after the date of the judgment, within five years after the date of the
recording of the deed made in pursuance of the sale.
Second, An action for the recovery of real property sold by executors, ad
ministrators or guardians, upon an order or judgment of a court directing such
sale, brought by the heirs or devisees of the deceased person, or the ward or his
guardian, or any person claiming under any or either of them, by title acquired
after the date of the judgment or order, within five years after the date of the
recording of the deed made in pursuance of the sale.
Third, An action for the recovery of real property sold for taxes, within two
years after the date of the recording of the tax deed.
Fourth, An action for the recovery of real property not hereinbefore pro
vided for, within fifteen years.
Fifth, An action for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible detention
only, of real property, within two years. 

§ 17. Any person entitled to bring an action for the
recovery of real property, who may be under any legal disability when the
cause of action accrues, may bring his action within two years after the disa
bility is removed. 

§ 18. Civil actions, other than for the recovery
of real property, can only be brought within the following periods, after the'
cause of action shall have accrued, and not afterwards:
First, Within five years: An action upon any agreement, contract or prom
ise in writing.
Second, Within three years: An action upon a contract, not in writing,
express or implied; an action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
forfeiture or penalty.
Third, Within two years: An action for trespass upon real property; an
action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property, including actions for
the specific recovery of personal property; an action for injury to the rights of
another, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated; an action for
relief on the ground of fraud — the cause of action in such case shall not be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery of the fraud.
Fourth, Within one year: An action for libel, slander, assault, battery,
malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment; an action upon a statute for pen
alty or forfeiture, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a different
limitation.
Fifth, An action upon the official bond or undertaking of an executor, ad
ministrator, guardian, sheriff, or any other officer, or upon the bond or under
taking given in attachment, injunction, arrest, or in any case whatever required
by statute, can only be brought within five years after the cause of action shall
have accrued.
Sixth, An action for relief, not hereinbefore provided for, can only be
brought within five years after the cause of action shall have accrued.. 

§ 19. If a person entitled to bring an action other
than for the recovery of real property, except for a penalty or a forfeiture, be, at
the time the cause of action accrued, under any legal disability, every such per
son shall be entitled to bring such action within one year after such disability
shall be removed. 

§ 20. An action shall be deemed
commenced, within the meaning of this article, as to each defendant, at the date
of the summons which is served on him, or on a co-defendant, who is a joint
contractor or otherwise united in interest with him. Where service "by publica
tion is proper, the action shall be deemed commenced at the date of the first
publication. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed equivalent to
the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this article, when the party
faithfully, properly and diligently endeavors to procure a service; but such at
tempt must be followed by the first publication or service of the summons with
in sixty days. 

§ 21. If, when a cause
of action accrues against a person, he be out of the state, or has absconded or
concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement of the action shall
not begin to run until he comes into the state, or while he is so absconded or
concealed; and if, after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the state,
or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall not
be computed as any part of the period within which the action must be brought

§ 22. Where the cause of
action has arisen in another state or country, between non-residents of this state,
and, by the laws of the state or country where the cause of action arose, an ac
tion cannot be maintained thereon by reason of lapse of time, no action
maintained thereon in this state;* [and no action shall be maintained in this
state on any judgment or decree rendered in another state or country against a
resident of this state, where the cause of action upon which such judgment or
decree was rendered could not have been maintained in this state at the time
the action thereon was commenced in such other state or country, by reason of
lapse of time.

§ 23. If any action be commenced
within due time, and a judgment thereon for the plaintifff be reversed, or if the
plaintifff fail in such action otherwise than upon the merits, and the time limited
for the same shall have expired, the plaintifff, or, if he die, and the cause of ac
tion survive, his representatives, may commence a new action within one year
after the reversal or failure. 

§ 24. In any case
founded on contract, when any part of the principal or interest shall have been
paid, or an acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim, or any prom
ise to pay the same, shall have been made, an action may be brought in such
case within the period prescribed for the same, after such payment, acknowledg
ment or promise; but such acknowledgment or promise must be in writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby. 

§ 25. When a right of action is barred by
the provisions of any statute, it shall be unavailable either as a cause of action
or ground of defense. 

§ 26. Every action must be pros
ecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided
in section twenty-eight; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the
assignment of a thing in action, not arising out of contract. 

§ 27. In the case of an assignment of a thing
in action, the action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setoff or
other defense dow allowed; but this section shall not apply to negotiable bonds,
promissory notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good
consideration, before due. 

§ 28. An executor, administrator,
guardian, trustee of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a
contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, may bring an action without joining with him the person for whose bene
fit it is prosecuted. Officers may sue and be sued in such name as is authorized
by law, and official bonds may be sued upon in the same way. 

§ 29. A married woman may sue
and be sued in the same manner as if she were unmarried. 

§ 30. If a husband and wife be sued together,
the wife may defend for her own right; and if her husband neglect to defend,
she may defend for his right also. 

§ 31. The action of an infant must be brought by his
guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his next friend, the
court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the infant, or substi
tute the guardian of the infant, or any person, as to the next friend. 

§ 32. The guardian, or next friend,
is liable for -the costs of the action brought by him, and when he is insolvent,
the court may require security for them. Either may be a witness in an action
brought by him. 
 
§ 33. The defense of an infant must be by
a guardian for the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate judge. The appointment
cannot be made until after the service of the summons in the action, as directed
in this code. 

§ 34. The appointment may be made upon
the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within twenty days after the return of the summos. If he bo under the age of
fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the appointment may be made upon the applica
tion of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintifff in [the] action. 

§ 35. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintifffs,
except as otherwise provided in this article. 

§ 36. Any person may be made a de
fendant who has, or claims, an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaint
iff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of
the question involved therein. 

§ 37. Of the parties
to the action, those who are united in interest must be joined, as plaintifffs or
defendants; but if the consent of one who should have been joined as plaintifff
cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in
the petition. 

§ 38. When the question is one of common
or general interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous,
and it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more
may sue or defend for the benefit of all. 

§ 39. Persons severally liable
upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of ex
change and promissory notes, and indorsers and guarantors, may all or any of
them be included in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff. 

§ 40. An action
does not abate by the death or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of
any interest therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action survive or con
tinue. In case of the death or other disability of a party, the court may allow
the action to continue by or against his representative or successor in interest
In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the
name of the original party, or the court may allow the person to whom the trans
fer is made, to be substituted in the action. 

§ 41. The court may determine any con
troversy between parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the
rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when a determination of the con
troversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the court must
order them to be brought in. 

§ 42. When, in an action for the recovery of real or per
sonal property, any person having an interest in the property applies to be made
a party, the court may order it to be done. 

§ 43. Upon affidavit of a defend
ant, before answer, in any action upon contract, or for the recovery of personal
property, that some third party, without collusion with him, has or makes a claim
to the subject of the action, and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the same,
as the court may direct, the court may make an order for the safe keeping, or
for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject of the action, to
such persons as it may direct, and an order requiring such third party to appear,
in a reasonable time, and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant.
If such third party, being served with a copy of the order, by the sheriff, or such
other person as the court may direct, fail to appear, the court may declare him
barred of all claim, in respect to the subject of the action, against the defendant
therein. If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make himself de
fendant in the action, in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged
from all liability to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the
action, upon his compliance with the order of the court for the payment, de
posit or delivery thereof. 

§ 44. The provisions of the last section
shall be applicable to an action brought against a sheriff or other officer, for the
recovery of personal property, taken by him under execution, or for the proceeds
of such property so taken and sold by him; and the defendant in any such ac
tion shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions against the party in whose
favor the execution issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which
he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, of its
proceeds, the action is brought, was taken under such process. 

§ 45. In an action
against a sheriff or other officer, for the recovery of property taken under an
execution and replevied by the plaintifff in such action, the court may, upon ap
plication of the defendant and of the party in whose favor the execution issued,
permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security for the cost being
given. 

§ 45a. Any person claiming property, money, ef
fects or credits attaches, may interplead in the cause, verifying the same by affi
davit, made by himself, agent or attorney, and issues may be made upon such
interpleader and shall be tried as like issues between plaintifff and defendant, and
without any unnecessary delay. 

§ 455. In all cases of interpleader, costs may
be adjudged for or against either party, as in ordinary cases. 

§ 46. Actions
-or the following causes must be brought in the county in which the subject of
the action is situated, except as provided in section forty-seven:
First, For the recovery of real property, or of any estate or interest therein,
or for the determination in any form of any such right or interest.
Second, For the partition of real property.
Third, For the sale of real property under a mortgage, Hen or other incum
brance or charge. 

§ 47. If the real prop
erty, the subject of the action, be an entire tract, and situated in two or more
counties, or if it consists of separate tracts, situated in two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county in which any tract or part thereof is sit
uated, unless it be an action to recover possession thereof; and if the property
be an entire tract, situated in two or more counties, an action to recover the
possession thereof may be brought in either of such counties; but if it consists
of separate tracts in different counties, the possession of such tracts must be re
covered by separate actions, brought in the counties where they are situated.
■ An action to compel the specific performance of a contract of 6ale of real estate,
may be brought in the county where the defendants, or any of them, reside.
[G. S. 1S68, ch. 80, §47, Oct. 31.]
(4127) Local actions. § 48. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
First, An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture or penalty, imposed by
a statute, except that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a river or
other stream of water, or road, which is the boundary of two or more counties,
the action may be brought in any county bordering on such river, water course
or road, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed.
Second, An action against a public officer for an act done by him in virtue
or under color of his office, or for a neglect of his official duties.
Third, An action on the official bond or undertaking of a public officer.

§ 49. An action, other than one
of those mentioned in the first three sections of this article, against a corporation
created by the laws of this state or of the territory of Kansas, may be brought
in the county in which it is situated, or has its principal office or place of busi
ness, or in which any of the principal officers thereof may reside, or may be sum
moned; but if such corporation be an insurance company, the action may be
brought in the county where the cause of action, or some part thereof, arose.

§ 50. An action against a railroad company, or
an owner of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for any injury to persons or
property upon the road or line, or upon a liability as a carrier, may be brought
in any county through or into which said road or line passes. 

§ 51. An action, other than one of
those mentioned in the first tlir.ee sections of this article, against a turnpike road
company, may be brought in any county in which any part of the road lies.
§ 52. The provisions of this article
shall not apply in the case of any corporation created by a law of this state or
the territory of Kansas, whose charter prescribes the place where, alone, a suit
against such corporation may be brought. 
§ 53. An action, other than one of
those mentioned in the first three sections of this article, against a non-resident
of this state or a foreign corporation, may be brought in any county in which
there may be property of, or debts owing to, said defendant, or where said de
fendant may be found; But if said defendant be a foreign insurance company,
the action may be brought in any county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose. 

§ 54. An action for a divorce may be brought
in the county of which the plaintifff is an actual resident at the time of filing the
petition. 

§ 55. Every other action must be
brought in the county in which the defendant, or some one of the defendants,
reside or may be summoned. 

§ 56. In all cases in which it shall be made
to appear to the court that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had in the county
where the suit is pending, or when the judge is interested or has been of coun
sel in the case or subject matter thereof, or is related to either of the parties, or
is otherwise disqualified to sit, the court may, on application of either party,
change the place of trial to some county where such objection does not exist.

§ 57. A civil action may be com
menced in a court of record, by filing in the office of the clerk of the proper
conrt a petition, and causing a summons to be issued thereon. 

§ 58. A copy of the petition need not accom
pany the summons, but the defendant or plaintifff shall be entitled to a copy of
the petition, or any other paper filed in the action, upon application to the clerk
therefore; and the costs of such copy shall be taxed among the costs in the action.
§ 59. The summons shall be issued by the
clerk, upon a written praecipe filed by the plaintifff; shall be under the seal of
the court from which the same shall issue, shall be signed by the clerk, and
shall be dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county, and command him to notify the defendant or defendants, named therein,
that he or they have been sued, and must answer the petition filed by the plaint
iff, giving his name, at a time stated therein, or the petition will be taken as
true, and judgment rendered accordingly; and where the action is on contract
for the recovery of money only, there shall be indorsed on the writ the amount,
to be furnished in the praecipe, for which, with interest, judgment will be taken,
if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant fail to appear, judgment shall
not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs. 

§ 60. Where the action is rightly
brought in any county, according to the provisions of article five, a summons
shall be issued to any other county against any one or more of the defendants,
at the plaintifff's request. 

§ 61. The summons shall be
served and returned by the officer to whom it is delivered, except when issued
to any other county than the one in which the action is commenced, within ten
days from its date; and, when issued to another county, shall be made returna
ble in not less than ten nor more than sixty days from the date thereof, at the
option of the party having it issued. 

§ 62. When a writ is returned "Not sum
moned," other writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall be
summoned; and when defendants reside in different counties, writs may be is
sued to such counties at the same time. 

§ 63. The summons shall be served by
the officer to whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original writ the time
and manner of service. It may be also served by any person not a party to the
action, appointed by the officer to whom it is directed. The authority of such
person shall be indorsed on the writ. When the writ is served by a person ap
pointed by the officer to whom it is directed, or when the service is made out of
this state, the return shall be verified by oath or affirmation. 

§ 64. The service shall be by delivering a
copy of the summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at his usual
place of residence, at any time before the return day. 

§ 65. In all cases, the return must state the
time and manner of service. 

§ 66. The officer, to whom the sum
mons is directed, must return the same at the time therein stated. 

§ 67. An acknowledgment on the back of
the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to serv
ice. 

§ 68. A summons against a corpo
ration may be served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of
directors, or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officer is not found
in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent;
or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at the office or
usual place of business of such corporation, with the person having charge
thereof. 

§ 68a. Every railroad com
pany or corporation, and every stage company doing business in the state of
Kansas, or having agents doing business therein for such corporation or com
pany, is hereby required to designate some person residing in each county, into
which its railroad line or stage route may or does run, or in which its business
is transacted, on whom all process and notices issued by any court of record or
justices of the peace of such county may be served. 

§ 68i. In every case such railroad
company or corporation, and stage company, shall file a certificate of the appoint
ment and designation of such person, in the office of the clerk of the district
court of the count)' in which such person resides; and the service of any proc
ess upon the person so designated, in any civil action, shall be deemed and
held to be as effectual and complete as if service of such process were made
upon the president, or other chief officer of such corporation or stage company.
Any railroad company, corporation, or stage company, may revoke the ap
pointment and designation of such person upon whom process may be served,
as hereinbefore provided, by appointing any other person qualified as above
specified, and filing a certificate of such appointment, as aforesaid; but every
second or subsequent appointment shall also designate the person whose place
is filled by such appointment. 

§ 68c. If any railroad or stage com
pany, or corporation, fail to designate and appoint such person, as in the pre
ceding sections is provided and required, such process may be served on any
local superintendent of repairs, freight agent, agent to sell tickets, or station
keeper, of such company or corporation in such county, or such process may be
served by leaving a copy thereof, certified by the officer to whom the same is
directed, to be a true copy, at any depot or station of such company or corpo
ration, in such county, with some person in charge thereof, or in the employ of
such company or corporation, and such service shall be held and deemed com
plete and effectual. 

§ 68<2. In all cases where service of
any process cannot be had upon the person designated by such company or cor
poration personally, service may be made by leaving a certified copy of such
process at the usual place of residence of such person, or as in the last preced
ing section, and the same shall be deemed complete and effectual. 

§ 69. Where the defendant
is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county in
which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief officer of
such agency. 

§ 70. Where the defendant
is a foreign corporation, having a managing agent in this state, the service may
be upon such agent. 

§ 71. When the defendant is a minor, un
der the age of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guard
ian or father, or if neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or the
person having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If
neither of these can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of
age, service on him alone will be sufficient. The manner of service may be the
flame as in the case of adults. 

§ 72. Service may be made by publication in either
of the following cases: In actions brought under the 46th and 47th sections of
this code where any or all of the defendants reside out of the state, or where
the plaintifff with due diligence is unable to make service of summons upon such
defendant or defendants within the state; in actions brought to establish or set
aside a will, where any or all of the defendants reside out of the state; in ac
tions to obtain a divorce where the defendant resides out of the state; in actions
brought against a non-resident of the state, or a foreign corporation, having
in this state property or debts owing them, sought to be taken by any of the
provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any way; in actions which re
late to, or the subject of which is, real or personal property in this state, where
any defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or
the relief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding him from any inter
est therein, and such defendant is a non-resident of the state or a foreign cor
poration; and in all actions where the defendant, being a resident of this state,
lias departed therefrom, or from the county of his residence, with intent to de
lay or defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keep him
self concealed therein with the like intent. 

§ 73. Before service can be made by publication,
an affidavit must be filed stating that the plaintifff, with due diligence, is unable
to make service of the summons upon the defendant or defendants to be served
by publication, and showing that the case is one of those mentioned in the pre
ceding section. When such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make
service by publication. 

§ 74. The publication must be made three
consecutive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the petition
is filed, if there be any printed in such county; and if there be not, in some
newspaper printed in this state, of general circulation in that county. It shall
state the court in which the petition is filed, the names of the parties, and must
notify the defendants thus to be served that he or they have been sued and must
answer the petition filed by the plaintifff, on or before a time to be stated (which
shall not be less than forty-one days from the date of the first publication), or
the petition will be taken as true, and judgment, the nature of which shall be
stated, will be rendered accordingly. 

§ 75. Service by publication shall be
deemed complete when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time
prescribed in the preceding section; and such service shall be proved by the
affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or principal clerk, or other person know
ing the same. No judgment by default shall be entered on such service until
proof thereof be made, and approved by the court, and filed. 

§ 76. In all cases where ser
vice may be made by publication, personal service of summons may be made
out of the state by the sheriff of' the county in which such service may be made.
Such summons shall be issued by the clerk, under seal of the court, and directed
to the defendant or defendants to be served, and shall notify him or them that
he or they have been sued by the plaintifff or plaintifffs, naming him or them,
and requiring him or them to answer the petition filed by the plaintifff or plaint
iffs in the clerk's office, of the court, which shall be named, within sixty days
from the day of service, or the said petition will be taken as true, and judgment
rendered accordingly. Such service may be proved by the affidavit of the per
son making the same, before a clerk of a court of record, or other officer hold
ing the seal thereof, or before some commissioner appointed by the governor of
this state, under an act providing for the appointment of commissioners to take
depositions, etc. : Provided, That such service, when made and proved as afore
said, shall have the same force and effect as service obtained by publication,
and no other or greater force or effect 

§ 77. A party against whom a
judgment or order has been rendered; without other service than by publication
in a newspaper, may, at any time within three years after the date of the judg
ment or order, have the same opened, and be let in to defend. Before the judg
ment or order shall be opened, the applicant 6hall give notice to the adverse
party of his intention to make such an application, and shall file a full answer
to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them to be paid, and make it
appear to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, that during the pendency
of the action he had no actual notice thereof in time to appear in court and
make his defense; but the title to any property, the subject of the judgment or
order sought to be opened, which, by it, or in consequence of it, shall have
passed to a purchaser in good faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings
under this section, nor shall they affect the title of any property sold before
judgment under an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing of an ap
plication to open a judgment or order, as provided by this section, shall be
allowed to present counter affidavits to show that during the pendency of the
action the applicant had notice thereof in time to appear in court and make his
defense. 

§ 78. In actions where it shall
be necessary to make the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants,
and it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintifff, annexed to his petition, that
the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of them, and their residence, are
unknown to the plaintifff, proceedings may be had against such unknown heirs
or devisees, without naming them; and the court shall make such order respect
ing service as may be deemed proper. If service by publication be ordered,
the publication shall not be less than three weeks. 
§ 79. Where the action is against
two or more defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not ail of
them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows: First, If the action be against de
fendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants
served, unless the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be
entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of
the defendants served; and if they are subject to arrest, against the persons of
the defendants served. Second, If the action be against defendants severally
liable, he may, without prejudice to las rights against those not served, proceed
against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only de
fendants.
§ 80. Nothing in this
code shall be so construed as to make a judgment, against one or more defend
ants jointly or severally liable, a bar to another action against those not served.

§ 81. When the petition has been filed,
the action is pending, so as to charge third persons with notice of its pendency,
and while pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in the subject
matter thereof as against the plaintifff's title; but such notice shall be of no avail
unless the summons be served or the first publication made within sixty days
after the filing of the petition. 

§ 82. When any part of real prop
erty, the subject matter of an action, is situated in any other county or counties
than the one in which the action is brought, a certified copy of the judgment in
such action must be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of such other
county or counties, before it shall operate therein as notice, so as to charge third
persons, as provided in the preceding section. It shall operate as such notice,
without record, in the county where it is rendered. 

§ 83. The plaintifff may unite several causes
of action in the same petition, whether they be such as have heretofore been
denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they all arise out of either one
of the following classes: First, The same transaction, or transactions, connected
with the same subject of action. Second, Contracts, express or implied. Third,
Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or either. Fourth, In
juries to character. Fifth, Claims to recover the possession of personal prop
erty, with or without damages for the withholding thereof. Sixth, Claims to
recover real property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and
the rents and profits of the same. Seventh, Claims against a trustee, by virtue
of a contract, or by operation of law. But the causes of action so united must
all belong to one of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action,
except in actions to enforce mortgages or other liens. 

§ 84. The pleadings are the written sta.aments,
by the parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims and d ■•
fenses. 

§ 85. The rules of pleading heretofore ex
isting in civil actions are abolished; and hereafter, the forms of pleadings in
civil actions in courts of record, and the rules by which their sufficiency may be
determined, are those prescribed by this code. 

§ 86. The only pleadings allowed are:
First, The petition by the plaintifff. Second, The answer or demurrer by the
defendant. Third, The demurrer or reply by the plaintifff. Fourth, The de
murrer bv the defendant to the reply of the plaintifff. 

§ 87. The petition must contain:
First. The name of the court, and the county in which the action is brought,
and the names of the parties, plaintifff and defendant, followed by the word
"petition."
econd, A statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition.
Third, A demand of the relief to which the party supposes, himself entitled.
If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated; and,
if interest thereon be claimed, the time from which interest is to be computed
shall be also stated. 

§ 88. Where the petition con
tains more than one cause of action, each shall be separately stated and num
bered. 

§ 89. The defendant may demur to thipetition
only when it appears on its face, either: First, That the court has nc
jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the subject of the action. Second,
That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue. Third, That there is anothei
action pending between the same parties for the same cause. Fourth, Thai
there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant. Fifth, That several causes
or action are improperly joined. Sixth, That the petition does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

§ 90. The demurrer shall specify dis
tinctly the grounds of objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it shall be
regarded as objecting only that the petition does not state facts sufficient to con
stitute a cause of action. 

§ 91. When any of the defects enumer
ated in section eighty-nine do not appear upon the face of the petition; the ob
jection may be taken by answer; and if no objection betaken, either by demurrer
or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to hare waived the same, except only
the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petitipn does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

§ 92. When a demurrer is sus
tained, on the ground of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on
motion of the plaintifff, shall allow him, with or without costs, in its discretion,
to file several petitions, each including such of said causes of action as might
have been joined; and an action shall be docketed for each of said petitions,
and the same 6hall be proceeded in without further service. 

§ 93. The defendant may demur to one or
more of the several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer to the
residue. 

§ 94. The answer shall contain: First, A general or
specific denial of each material allegation of the petition controverted by the
defendant. Secon A statement of any new matter constituting a defense,
counterclaim or setotf, or a right to relief concerning the subject of the action,
in ordinary and concise language, and without repetition. Third, When relief
is sought, the nature of the relief to which the defendant supposes himself entitled. The defendant may set forth, in his answer, as many grounds of defense,
counterclaim, setoff, and for relief, as he may have, whether they be such as
have been heretofore denominated legal, or equitable, or both. Each must be
separately stated and numbered, and they must refer, in an intelligible manner,
to the causes of action which they are intended to answer. 

§ 95. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff, be
tween whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of
the contract or transaction set forth in the petition as the foundation of the
plaintifff's claim, or connected with the subject of the action. The right to re
lief concerning the subject of the action, mentioned in the same section, must
be a right to relief necessarily or properly involved in the action for a complete
determination thereof, or settlement of the question involved therein. 

§ 96. If the defendant omit to
set np a counterclaim or setoff, he cannot recover costs against the plaintifff in
any subsequent action thereon; but this section shall not apply to causes of ac
tion which are stricken out of or withdrawn from the answer, as in sections
ninety-seven and one hundred and twenty. 

§ 97. When it appears that a new party
is necessary to a final decision upon a counterclaim, the court may either per
mit the new party to be made by a summons, to reply to the counterclaim, or
may direct the counterclaim to be stricken out of the answer, and made the sub
ject of a separate action. 

§ 98. A setoff can only be pleaded in an ac
tion founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising upon contract
or ascertained by the decision of a court. 

§ 99. When it appears that a new party is
necessary to a final decision upon the setoff, the court shall permit the new party
to be made, if it also appear that, owing to the insolvency or non-residence of
the plaintifff, or other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim,
unless permitted to use it as a setoff. 

§ 100. When cross demands have ex
isted between persons under such circumstances that, if one had brought an ac
tion against the other, a counterclaim or setoff could have been set up, neither
can be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other;
but the two demands must be deemed compensated so far as they equal each
other. 

§ 101. The guardian of an infant or per
son of unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny, in the answer,
all the material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant. 

§ 102. When the answer contains
new matter, the plaintifff may reply to such new matter, denying, generally or
specifically, each allegation controverted by him; and he may allege, in ordinary
and concise language, and without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent
with the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter in the answer; or he
may demur to the same for insufficiency, stating, in his demurrer, the grounds
thereof; and he may demur to one or more of such defenses set up in the answer,
and reply to the residue. 

§ 103. If the reply to any defense set up
by the answer be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, stating the
grounds of such demurrer. 

§ 104. Where the an
swer contains new matter constituting a right to relief against a co-defendant
concerning the subject of the action, such co-defendant may demur or reply tosuch matter in the same manner as if he were plaintifff, and subject to the same
rules, as far as applicable. 

§ 105. The answer or demurrer, by
the defendant, shall be filed within twenty days after the day on which the sum
mons is returnable; the reply or demurrer shall be filed within thirty days after
the day on which the summons was made returnable; the demurrer to the reply
shall be filed within forty davs after the day on which the summons was made
returnable. 

§ 106. The court, or any judge thereof
in vacation, may, in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow
an answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time limited
by this act, or by an order enlarge such time. 

§ 107. Every pleading, in a court of rec
ord, must be subscribed by the party or his attorney. 

§ 108. In all actions, allegations of the
execution of written instruments and indorsements thereon, of the existence of
a corporation or partnership, or of any appointment or authority, or the cor
rectness of any account duly verified by the affidavit of the party, his agent or
attorney, shall be taken as true unless the denial of the same be verified by the
affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney. 

§ 109. The verification mentioned
in the last section shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending
for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person imprisoned. 

§ 110. If there be several per
sons united in interest and pleading together, the affidavit may be made by any
one of such parties. When a municipal or other corporation is a party, the ver
ification may be made by an officer thereof, its agent or attorney. 

§ 111. The affidavit shall be sufficient if it
state that the affiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true. 

§ 112. In all cases where the
party pleading is a non-resident of the county in which the action is brought,
or if be shall be absent from the county where the pleading is filed, an affidavit,
made before filing the pleading, stating the substance of the facts afterward in
serted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit shall be
filed with the pleading intended to be verified thereby. 

§ 113. The affidavit verifying
pleadings may be made before any person before whom a deposition might be
taken, and must be signed by the party making the same; and the officer before
whom the same was taken, shall certify that it was sworn to or affirmed before
him, and signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer, signed officially
by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly made, that the name of the
officer was written by himself, and that he was such officer

§ 114. When the affi
davit is made by the agent or attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is
not made by the party himself. It can be made by the agent or attorney only:
First, When the facts are within the personal knowledge of the agent or attor
ney. Second, When the plaintifff is an infant, or of unsound mind, or impris
oned. Third, When the pleading to be verified is founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument is in the pos
session of the agent or attorney. Fourth, When the party is not a resident of,
or is absent from, the county. 

§ 115. In the construction of
any pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall
be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

§ 116. All fictions in pleadings are abol
ished. 

§ 117. The title of a cause shall not be changed
in any of its stages. 

§ 118. If the action,
counterclaim or setoff be founded on account or on a note, bill, or other written
instrument, as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be attached to and
filed with the pleading. If not so attached and filed, the reason thereof must
be stated in the pleading. But if the action, counterclaim or setoff be founded
upon a series of written instruments executed by the same person, it shall be
sufficient to attach and file a copy of one only, and in succeeding causes of ac
tion or defenses, to set forth in general terms descriptions of the several instru
ments respectively. 

§ 119. If
redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken
out, on motion of the party prejudiced thereby; and when the allegations of a
pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or
defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite
and certain by amendment. 

§ 120. The court, \t any time before
the final submission of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may allow a
counterclaim or setoff, set up in the answer, to be withdrawn, and the same may
become the subject of another action; on motion of either party, to be made at
the time such counterclaim or setoff is withdrawn, an action on the same shall
be docketed and proceeded in, as in like cases after process served; and the
court shall direct the time and manner of pleading therein. If an action be
not so docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in the ordinary way. 

§ 121. In pleading a judgment, or
other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall be suffi
cient to state that such judgment or determination was duly given or made; and
•the jurisdiction of any such court or officer shall be presumed until the contrary
appears. 

§ 122. In pleading the per
formance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that
the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegations
be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts show
ing such performance. 

§ 123. In
an action, counterclaim or setoff, founded upon an account, promissory note,
bill of exchange or other instrument, for the unconditional payment of money
only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the account or instru
ment, with all credits, and the indorsements thereon, and to state that there is
due to him, on such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified
sum, which he claims, with interest. When others than the makers of a prom
issory note, or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are parties in the action, it
shall be necessary to state, also, the kind of liability of the several parties, and
the facts, as they may be, which fix their liability. 

§ 124. In pleading a pri
vate statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such
statute by its title, and the day of its approval, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof. 

§ 125. In an action
for libel or slander, it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the defamatory
matter was published or spoken of the plaintifff; and if the allegation be denied,
the plaintifff must prove, on the trial, the facts, showing that the defamatory
matter was published or spoken of him. 

§ 126. In the actions mentioned
in the last section, the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating circumstances, to re
duce the amount of damages, or he may prove either. 

§ 127. In any action for the re
covery of real property, it shall be described with such convenient certainty as
will enable an officer holding an execution to identify it. 

§ 128. Every material
allegation of the petition, not controverted by the answer, and every material
allegation of new matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply, shall, for
the purposes of the action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter
in the reply shall be deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as upon
■direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require. A demurrer to a reply shall
not be held to admit any of the facts alleged in such reply for any purpose other
than to determine the sufficiency thereof. Allegations of value, or of amount
of damages, shall not be considered as true, by failure to controvert them; but,
this shall not apply to the amount claimed in actions on contract, express or im
plied, for the recovery of money only. 

§ 129. A material allegation, in a plead
ing, is one essential to the claim or defense, which could not be 6tricken from
the pleading without leaving it insufficient 
§ 130. Neither presumptions of law
nor matters of which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.

§ 131. When a tender of money is alleged in any plead
ing, it shall not be necessary to deposit the money in court when the pleading is
filed, but it shall be sufficient if the money is deposited in court at the trial, or
when ordered by the court. 

§ 132. If an original pleading be lost, or with
held by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted. 

§ 133. No variance between the allegations,
in a pleading, and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have actually
misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense
upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that
fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must also be shown
in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the court may order the plead
ing to be amended, upon such terms as may be just 

§ 134. When the variance is not ma
terial, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found,
according to the evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without
cost 

§ 135. When, however,
the allegation of the claim or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved,
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope and meaning,
it is not to be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a fail
ure of proof. 

§ 136. The plaintifff may amend
his petition without leave, at any time "before the answer is filed, without preju
dice to the proceedings; but notice of such amendment shall be served upon the
defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall have the same time to answer
or demur thereto as to the original petition. 

§ 137. At any time within ten days
after the demurrer is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on payment
•of costs since tiling the defective pleading. Notice of the filing of an amended
pleading shall be forthwith served upon the other party or his attorney, who
shall have the same time thereafter to answer or reply thereto, as to an original
pleading. 

§ 138. Upon a demurrer being
overruled, the party who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satis
fied that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did not demur for delay.
§ 139. The court may, before or
after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading, process or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in
any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or con
form the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved, when such amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense; and when any proceeding
fails to conform, in any respect, to the provisions of this code, the court may
permit the same to be made conformable thereto by amendment. 

§ 140. The court, in every stage of action,
must disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which does
not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. 

§ 141. If the demurrer be
sustained, the adverse party may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way
of amendment, with or without costs, as the court, in its discretion, shall direct.

§ 142. When either party shall amend any plead
ing or proceeding, ana the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that
the adverse party could not be ready for trial, in consequence thereof, a contin
uance may be granted to some day in term, or to another term of the court.
§ 143. When the plaintifff shall be igno
rant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in any
pleading or proceeding, by any name or description; and when his true name
is discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. The
plaintifff, in such case, must state in his petition that he could not ascertain the
true name; and the summons must contain the words, "real name unknown,"
and a copy thereof must be served personally upon the defendant. 
§ 144. Either party may be allowed,
on notice, and on such terms, as to costs, as the court may prescribe, to file a
supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, oc
curring after the former petition, answer or reply. 

§ 145. Whenever two or more actions are pend
ing in the same court, which might have been joined, the defendant may, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, require him to show cause why the
6ame shall not be consolidated, and if no cause be shown, the said several
actions shall be consolidated. 

§ 146. The order for consolidation may be made
by the court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation. 

§ 147. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested,
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by this code, and not
otherwise; but this provision does not apply to proceedings for contempt; nor
does it apply to actions or judgments prosecuted in the name of the state of
Kansas to recover fines or penalties for crimes, misdemeanors or offenses. 

§ 148. An order for the arrest of the de
fendant shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought,
when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his authorized agent
or attorney, stating the nature of the plaintifff's claim, that it is just, and the
amount thereof, as nearly as may be, and showing one or more of the followin »
particulars:
JFw»t, That the defendant has removed, or begun to remove, any of his
property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Second, That he has begun to convert his property, or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors.
Third, That he has property, or rights of action, which he fraudulently con
ceals.
Fourth, That he has assigned, removed or disposed of, or has begun to dis
pose of, his property, or a part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Fifth, That he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the obligation,
for which suit is about to be or has been brought. The affidavit shall also con
tain a statement of the facts claimed to justify the belief in the existence of
one or more of the above particulars. 

§ 149. The order of arrest shall not be issued by
the clerk, until there has been executed, by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff, a written undertaking to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the
defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the
order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff s
claim stated in the affidavit. 

§ 150. The order may be made to accompany
the summons, or at any time afterward, before the judgment. 

§ 151. The order of arrest shall be
addressed and delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff; the order
shall state the name of the parties, the court in which the action is brought, and
the amount of the plaintifffs claim specified in the affidavit, and shall require
the sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in double the sum stated
in the affidavit, and to make return of the order on a day to be named therein,
with the undertaking of the bail, if any be given. 

§ 152. The return day of the order of arrest,
when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as that of the
summons; when issued afterward, it shall be fifteen days after it is issued. 
§ 153. The sheriff shall execute the order
by arresting the defendant, and delivering to him a copy of the order, and of
the affidavit. If the defendant cannot be found before the return day, the
plaintifff shall be entitled to further orders, without another affidavit or under
taking until the defendant is arrested; but orders of arrest shall not be issued
to any other than the county in which the action is brought. 
§ 154. The defendant, when arrested,
shall be committed by the sheriff to the jail of the county, and kept in custody
until discharged by law. 
§ 155. The defendant may, be
fore or after giving bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in the court, the
amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon he shall be dis
charged, or bis bail, if any be given, shall be released. 
§ 156. The sheriff shall pay into court the money
received by him in lieu of bail. If received in vacation, he shall pay it in on
the first day of the next term; if received during a term, he shall pay it in im
mediately. 

§ 157. The court shall make proper orders for
the safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may direct the sheriff
to keep the money, and, after final judgment in the action, shall order it to be
paid to the party entitled thereto, according to the result. 

§ 158. Money so deposited with the
sheriff, in lieu of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be held
upon his official responsibility; and he and his sureties shall be liable, and may
be proceeded against for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases of de
linquency. 

§ 159. Bail may be given by the defendant on his arrest,
or at any time afterward, before judgment. It shall be done by causing one or
more sufficient sureties to execute a written undertaking to the plaintifff, in the
presence of the sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the
action against the defendant, he will render himself amenable to the process of
the court thereon. The undertaking, when accepted, shall be returned to the
clerk's office, and the defendant discharged. 

§ 160. The plaintifff or his attorney may ac
cept the bail by indorsing such acceptance on the undertaking; or may object to
the bail, for insufficiency, at any time within five days after tlie undertaking has
been given. Within such time, he shall serve upon the sheriff a written notice
that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and
the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. When the undertaking is given
after return of arrest, the plaintifff shall have notice thereof. 
§ 161. On the receipt of such notice, the
sheriff or defendant may, within two days thereafter, give, to the plaintifff or his
attorney, notice, in writing, of the justification of the same or other bail, before
a judge or clerk of the court in which the action is brought, a probate judge or
justice of the peace, at a specified time and place; the time to be not less than
five nor more than ten days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there must
be a new undertaking. 
§ 162. For the purpose of justification, each
of the bail must attend before the proper officer, at the time and place mentioned,
and may be examined on oath or affirmation touching his sufficiency, in such
manner as the officer may think proper. 
§ 163. If the officer find the bail sufficient, he
shall indorse his allowance on the undertaking, and cause the same to be filed
with the clerk, and the sheriff shall thereupon be discharged from liability. 
§ 164. After being arrested, if the defendant
escapes or be rescued, or bail be not taken, or be adjudged insufficient, or a
deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail. But he may discharge
himself from liability by putting in sufficient bail at any time before judgment
§ 165. The return of "not
found," upon an execution against the body of the defendant shall be necessary
to fix the liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability shall be the amount of
the judgment, interest and costs. This liability shall be enforced only in a sep
arate action against him, or against him and his sureties on his official bond, as
jn other cases of delinquency. 

§ 166. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall
be liable to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of such insuf
ficiency. 
§ 167. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in
the manner provided in section one hundred and sixty-five, for fixing the lia
bility of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can be proceeded against in an action
only. 
§ 168. A surrender of the defendant
to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of a cer
tified copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such surrender be made by
the defendant himself, or by his bail, shall discharge the bail. Such surrender
may be made at any time before the return day of the summons in an action
against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment
of the surrender, and hold the defendant in his custody, upon said copy of the
undertaking of the bail, as upon an order of arrest. On the production of the
sheriff1 s acknowledgment of the surrender, to the clerk of the court, an exonera
tion of the bail shall be entered on his undertaking. 

§ 169. For the purpose of surrendering the
defendant, the bail, at any time and place, before he is finally charged, may
himself arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of
the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do
so. 
§ 170. The bail will be exonerated by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by his legal
discharge from the obligation to surrender himself amenable to the process of
the court, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county in which he was ar
rested in execution thereof, within the time fixed in section one hundred and
sixtv-eight, or within such further time as the court, in which the action is pend
ing* may allow. 

§ 171. If money be deposited
by the defendant on his discharge, bail may be given and justified, upon notice
as prescribed in section one hundred and sixty-one, at any time before judgment;
and thereupon the court in which the action is brought, on being satisfied that
the bail has been given and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the money de
posited be refunded to the defendant, and it must be refunded accordingly.

§ 172. If, at any time before or after judgment against
the bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the judgment against the
principal, in the suit in which their undertaking was taken, the court may, on
motion, stay proceedings against such bail, for a reasonable time, on their pay
ing all the costs that have accrued against them; and if, on such proceedings,
the judgment against the principal shall be reversed, and the principal discharged
from said suit, the bail shall be discharged from the undertaking. 

§ 173. A defendant may, at any time be
fore judgment, apply on motion to the court in which the suit is brought, if in
session, and in vacation to a judge thereof, to vacate the order of- arrest, or to
reduce the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of such motion must be given
to the plaintifff. 

§ 174. If the motion be made upon
affidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order
of arrest was made. 

§ 175. Any person causing
another to be committed to jail, under the provisions of this article, shall be
liable, in the first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by the jailor,
pay such fees weekly, in advance; and such fees, so paid, shall be a part of the
costs of the case. 

§ 176. The plaintifff, in an action to re
cover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement
of the suit, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such
property, as provided in this chapter. 

§ 177. An order
for the delivery of property to the plaintifff shall be made by the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit
of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing:
First, A description of the property claimed.
Second, That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or has a special own
ership or interest therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the property.
Third, That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
Fourth, That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment against
said plaintifff, or for the payment of any tax, fine or amercement assessed against
him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this article, or any other
mesne or final process issued against said plaintifff; or,
Fifth, If taken in execution, or on any order or judgment against the plaint
iff, that it is exempt by law from being so taken.
Sixth, The actual value of the property. When several articles are claimed,
the value of each shall be stated as nearly as practicable. 

§ 178. The order shall not
be issued by the clerk until there has been executed in his office, by one or
more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the clerk, an under
taking in not less than double the value of the property, as stated in the affida
vit, to the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and pay all
costs and damages which may be awarded against him, and if the property be
delivered to him, that he will return the same to the defendant if a return thereof
be adjudged. 

§ 179. The order for the delivery
of the property to the plaintifffs shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff.
It shall state the names of the parties, the court in which the action is brought,
and command the sheriff to take the property, describing it, and deliver it to
the plaintifff, and to make return of the order on a day to be named therein.
§ 180. The return day of the
order of delivery, when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the
same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days
after it is issued. 
§ 181. The sheriff shall
execute the order by taking the property therein mentioned. He 6hall also
deliver a copy of the order to the person charged with the unlawful detainer of
the property, or leave such copy at his usual place of residence. 
§ 182. If, within twenty-four hours after serv
ice of the copy of the order, there is executed by one or more sufficient sureties
of the defendant, to be approved by the sheriff, an undertaking to the plaintifff,
in not less than double the amount of the value of the property as stated in the
affidavit of the plaintifff, to the effect that the defendant will deliver the prop
erty to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and will pay all costs and
damages that may be awarded against him, the sheriff shall return the property
to the defendant. If such undertaking be not given within twenty-four hours
after service of the order, the sheriff shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

§ 183. The plaintifff may, within twenty-.
four hours from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding section is
given by the defendant, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency
of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he must be deemed to have waived all ob
jections to them. When the plaintifff excepts, the sureties must justify, upon
notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff or other officer shall be responsible for the
sufficiency of the sureties, until the objection to them is waived, as above pro
vided, or until they justify. 

§ 184. If the property has been delivered
to the plaintifff, and judgment rendered against him, on demurrer, or if he other
wise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment, the court shall, on application
of the defendant or his attorney, proceed to inquire into the right of property,
and right of possession of the defendant to the property taken. 

§ 185. In an action to recover the posses
sion of personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession,
or for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot
be had, and of damages for the detention. If the property has been deliv
ered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the
defendant may be for a return of the property, or the value thereof in case a
return cannot be had, and damages for taking and withholding the same. 

§ 186. An order may be directed
to any other connty than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery
of the property claimed. Several orders may issue at the same time, or success
ively, at the option of the plaintifff; but only one of them shall be taxed in the
costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court 

§ 187. The sheriff or other officer, in
the execution of the order of delivery, may break open any building or enclosure
in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed, but not
until he has been refused an entrance into said building or enclosure and the de
livery of the property, after having demanded the same. 

§ 188. In an action to recover the
possession of specific personal property, the court, or judge in vacation, may,
for good cause shown, before or after judgment, compel the delivery of the prop
erty to the officer or party entitled thereto, by attachment, and may examine
either party as to the possession or control of the property. Such authority
shall only be exercised in aid of the foregoing provisions of this article. 

§ 189. Any order for the delivery
of property, issued under this article, without the affidavit and undertaking re
quired, shall be set aside at the cost of the clerk issuing the same, and such
clerk, as well as the plaintifff, shall also be liable, in damages, to the party in
jured. 

§ 190. The plaintifff in a civil action for the recovery
of money may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment
against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein stated:
First, When the defendant, or one of several defendants, is a foreign corpo
ration, or a non-resident of this state; (but no order of attachment shall be issued
on the ground or grounds in this clause stated for any claim other than a debt
or demand arising upon contract, judgment or decree, unless the cause of action
arose wholly within the limits of this state, which fact must be established on the
trial;)
Second, When the defendant, or one of several defendants, has absconded
with intention to defraud his creditors; or,
Third, Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of sum
mons; or,
Fourth, So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon him; or,
Fifth, Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the juris
diction of the court, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Sixth, Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for
the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or,
Seventh, Has property or rights in action, which he conceals; or,
Eighth, Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is about to dispose of, his
property, or a part thereof, with the intent to defraud, hinder or delay his cred
itors; or,
Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the debt, or fraudulently incurred the liabil
ity or obligations for which the suit is about to be or has been brought; or,
Tenth, Where the damages for which the action is brought are for injuries
arising from the commission of some felony or misdemeanor, or the seduction of
any female; or,
Eleventh, When the debtor has failed to pay the price or value of any arti
cle or thing delivered, which by contract he was bound to pay upon delivery.

§ 191. An order of attachment shall be
made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any case men
tioned in the preceding section, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of
the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, showing: First, The nature of the plaintifff's
claim; second, that it is just; third, the amount which the affiant believes the
plaintifff ought to recover; and, fourth, the existence of some one of the grounds
for an attachment enumerated in the preceding Bection. 

§ 192. The order of attachment shall not
be issued by the clerk until an undertaking on the part of the plaintifff has been
executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the clerk, and filed in
office, in a sum not exceeding double, the amount of the plaintifff's claim, to
the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages which hemay
sustain by reason of the attachment if the order be wrongfully obtained;
but no undertaking shall be required where the party or parties defendant are
all non-residents of the state, or a foreign corporation. 

§ 193. The order of attachment shall be di
rected and delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the lands,
tenements, goods, chattels, stocks, rights, credits, monies and effects of the de
fendant in his county, not exempt by law from being applied to the payment of
the plaintifff's claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintifff's claim, to
be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action
not exceeding fifty dollars. 

§ 194. Orders of attachment may be is
sued to the sheriffs of different counties, and several of them may, at the option
of the plaintifff, be issued at the same time, or in succession; but only such as
have been executed shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the
court. 
§ 195. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as that of
the summons. When issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it issued.

§ 196. Where there are several orders of at
tachment against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the order in
which they are received by the sheriff. 

§ 197. The order of attachment
shall be executed by the sheriff, without delay. He shall go to the place where
the defendant's property may be found, and declare that, by virtue of said or
der, he attaches said property at the suit of the plaintifff; and the officer, with
two householders, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make
a true inventory and appraisement of all the property attached, which shall be
signed by the officer and householders, and returned with the order. 

§ 198. When the property attached is real property,
the officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there be no occupant, in
a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the order. Where it is personal prop
erty, and he can get possession, he shall take the same into his custody, and
hold it subject to the order of the court; 

§ 199. The sheriff shall deliver
the property attached to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the
execution, by such person, in the presence of the sheriff, of an undertaking to
the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, resident in the county, to the
effect that the parties to the same are bound, in double the appraised value
thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in money, shall be forthcoming
to answer the judgment of the court in the action; but if it shall appear to the
court that any part of said property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable
accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the person so bound. 

§ 200. Any creditor shall be entitled to proceed by garnishment in the district court of the proper county against
any person (excepting a municipal corporation) who shall be indebted to, or have
any property, real or personal, in his possession or under his control belonging
to such creditor's debtor, in the cases, upon the conditions, and in the manner
hereinafter described. 

§ 200a. Either at the time of the issuing of the sum
mons, or at any time thereafter, before final judgment, if [in] any action to re
cover damages founded upon contract, express or implied, or upon judgment or
decree, or at any time after the issuing, in case of an execution against property,
and before the time when it is returnable, the plaintifff or some person in his be
half shall file with the clerk an affidavit stating the amount of the plaintifffs
claim against the defendant or defendants over and above all offsets, and stating
that he verily believes that some person, naming him, is indebted to or has prop
erty, real or personal, in his possession or under his control belonging to the
defendant (or either or any of the defendants) in the action or execution, nam
ing him, and that such defendant has not property liable to execution sufficient
to satisfy the plaintifffs demand, and that the indebtedness or property men
tioned in such affidavit is to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person
making such affidavit not by law exempt from seizure or sale upon execution.
Any number of garnishees may be embraced in the same affidavit and summons
hereinafter provided for; but if a joint liability be claimed against any it shall
be so stated in such affidavit, and the garnishee named as jointly liable shall be
deemed jointly proceeded against, otherwise the several garnishees shall be
deemed severally proceeded against: Provided, That the order of garnishment
shall not be issued by the clerk until an undertaking on the part of the plaintifff
has been executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the clerk and
filed in his office, in a sum not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's
claim, to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant all damages
which he may sustain by reason of such garnishment if the order be wrongfully
obtained; but no undertaking shall be required where the party or parties de
fendant are all non-residents of the state or a foreign corporation. 

§ 200J. Upon the filing of such affidavit a garnishee
summons shall be issued by the clerk and served upon the defendant or his at
torney of record, and each of the garnishees, in the manner provided for service
of 10010(1008, and shall be returned with proof of service in five days. The
garnishee summons may be served by the sheriff, or any other person not a
party to the action, and shall be substantially in the following form:
Cotjbt, County.—A. B., Plaintiff, vs. C. D., Defendant, E. P., Garnishee.— Tht
State of Kansas to said Garnishee: You are hereby summoned, pursuant to the affidavit filed herein,
as garnishee of the defendant, C. D., and required, on or before the date of return day, to answer
according to law whether you are indebted to, or have in your possession or under your control, any
property, real or personal, belonging to such defendant, and file a copy of your answer with the
clerk of this court; and in case of your failure so to do you will be liable to further proceedings ac
cording to law. 01 which the said defendant will also take notice. ,
Clerk of District C

§ 200<j. The plaintifff may in like manner subse
quently proceed within the period limited against other garnishees, or against
the same garnishees after they shall have once been discharged, upon a new
affidavit, if he shall have reason to believe they have subsequently become
liable; and he may proceed against garnishees resident in other counties than
that in which the action is pending; but if an issue for trial shall be joined be
tween the plaintifff and such garnishee, the court may, on motion, change the
place of trial of such issue to the county of the garnishee's residence. 

§ 200<2. Within twenty days from the
service of such garnishee summons the garnishee may, if the truth warrant, file
with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending his affidavit, substan
tially in the following form:
Coubt, County. —A. B., Plaintiff, vs. C. D., Defendant, and E. F., Garnishee.
County, , ss. — E. F., being first duly sworn, says that on the day of ,
A D. 18—, he was served with a garnishee summons in the above-entitled action; that he was then
and is now in no manner and upon no account indebted or under liability to the defendant (naming
him), and that he then had and now has in his possession or under his control no real estate and no
personal property, effects, or credits, of any description, belonging to said defendant or in which he
has any interest; and is in no manner liable as garnishee in this action. Subscribed and sworn to
before me, this day of , A. D. 18—.
Thereby the proceedings against such garnishee shall be deemed discon
tinued, and the plaintifff shall pay the garnishee two dollars for his costs, unless
within twenty days thereafter the plaintifff serve notice on such garnishee that
he elects to take issue on his answer as garnishee, and will maintain him to be
liable as garnishee; in which case the issue shall stand for trial as a civil action,
in which the affidavit on the part of the plaintifff shall be deemed the petition
and the garnishee's affidavit the answer thereto. 

§ 200<j. Unless the garnishee shall make
the affidavit provided for in section five he shall, within twenty days from the
service of the garnishee summons, file an affidavit in which he shall state —
First, Whether he was at the time of the service of the garnishee summons
or has since become indebted or under any liability to the defendant named in
the notice in any manner or upon any account, specifying, if indebted or liable,
the amount, the interest thereon, the manner in which evidenced, when payable,
whether an absolute or contingent liability, and all the facts and circumstances
necessary to a complete understanding of such indebtedness or liability. When
the garnishee shall be in doubt respecting any such liability or indebtedness he
may set forth all the facts and circumstances concerning the same, and submit
the question to the court.
Second, Whether he held at the time aforesaid or now holds the title or pos
session of any real estate, or any interest in land of any description, or of any
personal property, effects or credits, or any instruments or papers relating to
any such belonging to the defendants, or in which he is in any wise interested;
and if he 111011 admit any such, or be in doubt respecting the same, he shall set
forth a description of such property, and all the facts and circumstances con
cerning the same, and the title, interest, or claim of the defendant in or to the
same.
Third, If he shall claim any setoff or defense to any officer, indebtedness
or liability, or any lien or claim to such property, he shall set forth the facts
and circumstances thereof fully.
Fourth, He may state any claim of exemption from execution on the part
of the defendant, or other objection known to him against the right of the
plaintifff to apply upon his demand the indebtedness or property disclosed.
Fifth, If he shall disclose any indebtedness or the possession of any prop
erty to which the defendant, and any other person as well, makes claim, he may
set forth the names and residences of such other claimants, and so far as known,
the nature of their claims. 

§ 200/". If any garnishee, having been duly
summoned, shall fail to file his affidavit as required in the preceding sections,
the court may render judgment against him for the amount of the judgment
which the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in the action for damages
and costs, together with the costs of such garnishee. Such garnishee may also
be proceeded against as for contempt. 
§ 200<7- The answer of the garnishee
shall in all cases be conclusive of the truth of the facts therein stated, unless
the plaintifff shall within twenty days serve upon the garnishee a notice in writ
ing that he elects to take issue on his answer; in which case the issue shall
stand for trial as a civil action, in which the affidavit on the part of the plaintifff
shall be deemed the petition, and the garnishee's affidavit the answer thereto.
The plaintifff may in all cases move the court, upon the answer of the garnishee,
and of the defendant, if he shall also answer, for such judgment as he shall be
entitled to thereon, but any such judgment shall be no bar beyond the facts
stated in such answer. 
§ 200A. The answer of a corporation
summoned as a garnishee may be made by any officer thereof; and of any other
garnishee, by any agent or attorney, in his behalf, who shall be acquainted with
the facts. 
§ 200t. The defendant may in all cases, by answer duly
verified, to be served within twenty days from the service of the garnishee sum
mons on him, defend the proceedings against any garnishee, upon the ground
that the indebtedness of the garnishee, or any property held by him, is exempt
from execution against such defendant, or for any other reason is not liable to
garnishment; or upon any ground upon which a garnishee might defend the
same; and may participate in the trial of any issue between the plaintifff and
garnishee for the protection of his interests. And the garnishee may, at his
option, defend the principal action for the defendant, if the latter does not, but
shall be under no obligations so to do. 
§ 200;'. The proceedings
against a garnishee shall be deemed an action by the plaintifff against the gar
nishee and defendant, as parties defendant, and all the provisions for enforcing
judgments shall be applicable thereto; but when the garnish inont is not in aid
of an execution, no trial shall be had of the garnishee action until the plaintifff
shall have judgment in the principal action, and if the defendant have judg
ment, the garnishee action shall be dismissed with costs. The court shall ren
der such judgment in all cases as shall be just to all the parties, and properly
protect their respective interests, and may adjudge the recovery of any indebt
edness, the conveyance, transfer, or delivery to the sheriff, or any officer ap
pointed by the judgment, of any real estate or personal property disclosed or
found to be liable to be applied to the plaintifff's demand, or by the judgment
pass the title thereto; and may therein, or by its order when proper, direct the
manner of making sale and of disposing of the proceeds thereof, or of any
money or other thing paid over or delivered to the clerk or officer. The judg
ment against a garnishee shall acquit and discharge him from all demands by
the defendant or his representatives for all money, goods, effects, or credits
paid, delivered, or accounted for by the garnishee by force of such judgment.

§ 200k. The examination of the
garnishee may be taken out of court, by deposition, at any time after the filing
of the affidavit by him in answer to the garnishee summons before the deter
mination of such garnishee's liability. If the garnishee be a corporation, any
principal officer thereof may be so examined. Such deposition may be taken
before the probate judge, or before a notary public to be designated by the
judge of the court in which the action is pending, on application by the plaint
iff upon five days' previous notice to the defendant, stating the time and place
of such application, or it may be taken without the state upon commission, in
the manner provided for taking other depositions. The attendance of the gar
nishee to be examined may be compelled upon subpoena and the payment of wit
ness fees if demanded; and such examination shall be subject to the same rules
as that of any other witness, but he shall not be compelled to disclose anything
not relevant to the controversy. Such examination shall not be compelled in
any other county than that in which the party to be examined resides. 

§ 2001. When the answer of the garnishee shall disclose
that any other person than the defendant claims the indebtedness or property
in his hands, and the name and residence of such claimant, the court may, on
motion, order that such claimant be interpleaded, as a defendant to the gar
nishee action; and that notice thereof, setting forth the facts, with a copy of such
order, in such form as the court shall direct, be served upon him; and that after
such service shall have been made, the garnishee may pay or deliver to the offi
cer or the clerk such indebtedness or property, and have a receipt therefore,
which shall be a complete discharge from all liability to any party for the
amount so paid or property so delivered. Such notice shall be served in the
manner required for service of a summons in a civil action, and may be made
without the state, or by publication thereof, if the order shall so direct. Upon
such service being made, such claimant shall be deemed a defendant to the gar
nishee action, and within twenty days shall answer, setting forth his claim or any
defense which the garnishee might have made. In case of default, judgment
may be rendered, which shall conclude any claim upon the part of such defend
ant 

§ 200m. From the time of the service of
the summons upon the garnishee he shall stand liable to the plaintifff to the
amount of the property, monies, credits and effects in his possession or under
bis control, belonging to the defendant or in which he shall be interested, to the
extent of his right or interest therein, and of all debts due or to become due to
the defendant, except such as may be by law exempt from execution. Any
property, monies, credits and effects held by a conveyance or title, void as to
the creditors of the defendant, shall be embraced in such liability. In case such
monies, credits and effects in the possession or under the control of the gar
nishee shall exceed the amount of the plaintifff's claim, the garnishee shall stand
liable to the plaintifff only for the amount of the plaintifff's claim as disclosed by
the affidavit provided for in section two thousand seven hundred and fifty-three,
together with such farther amount as shall be equal to all costs and damages
which the plaintifff may recover in the action and garnishee proceedings. 

§ 2007i. No judgment Bhall be ren
dered upon a liability of the garnishee arising either —First, By reason of his
having drawn, accepted, made, indorsed or guaranteed any negotiable bill, draft,
note, or other security. Second, By reason of any money or other thing re
ceived or collected by him as sheriff or other officer, by force of an execution
or other legal process in favor of the defendant. Third, By reason of anj
money in his hands as a public officer, and for which he is accountable to the
defendant merely as such officer. Fourth, By reason of any money or other
thing owing from him to the defendant, unless before judgment against the de
fendant it shall become due absolutely and without depending on any future
emergency. Judgment may be given for any money or other thing owing
although it has not become payable, in which case the garnishee shall not be re
quired to pay or deliver it before the time appointed by the contract. 

§ 200o. No action shall be commenced by the defend
ant or his assignee against a garnishee upon any claim or demand liable to
garnishment, or to recover any property garnished, or execution be issued upon
a judgment in favor of defendant against such garnishee subsequent to the serv
ice of the garnishee summons upon him, until the termination of the garnishee
action; and if an action shall have been commenced or an execution issued, it
shall be stayed by the court or a judge thereof, upon the garnishee's application;
except that upon cause shown, the court or a judge may by order permit the
commencement of such an action, or the issue of an execution, or the further
prosecution of one stayed. 

§ 200^. The defendant may, at any time after the com
plaint is filed, and before judgment, file with the clerk of the court an under
taking, executed by at least two sureties, resident freeholders of the state, to
the effect that they will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of the
judgment, with all costs that may be recovered against such defendant in the
action, not exceeding a sum specified, which sum shall not be less than double
the amount demanded by the complaint on file, or in such less sum as the court
shall, upon application, direct. The sureties shall justify their responsibility by
affidavit annexed stating a sum which each is worth, in property within this state,
over and above all his debts and liabilities and property exempt from execntion,
the aggregate of which sums shall be double the amount specified in the under
taking. The defendant shall serve a copy of such undertaking, with a notice
where and when the same was filed, on the plaintifff. Within three days after
the receipt thereof the plaintifff shall give notice to the defendant that he ex
cepts to the sufficiency of the sureties, or he shall be deemed to have waived all
objections to them. 

§ 200^. When the plaintifff excepts, the sureties
shall appear for justification before the judge of the district court or the pro
bate judge of the county in which the action is brought, at a time and place to
be mentioned in the notice given by the plaintifff, and may be examined on oath
on the part of the plaintifff touching his sufficiency, in 6uch manner as the judge
in his discretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writ
ing and subscribed by the sureties, if required by the plaintifff. If the judge
find the sureties sufficient he shall annex the examination to the undertaking,
indorse his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk of the
district court Thereafter all the garnishees shall be discharged, and the gar
nishment proceeding shall be deemed discontinued, and any money or property
paid or delivered to any officer shall be surrendered to the person entitled there

to, and the costs shall be taxable as disbursements of the plaintifff in the action
if he recovers. The judge may in his discretion require the costs of the justifi
cation before him, including fees to the sureties as witnesses, to be forthwith
paid by the party requiring justification. 
§ 200/*. In case of the trial of any issue between the plaint
iff and any garnishee, costs shall be awarded to the plaintifff and against the
garnishee, in addition to his liability, if the plaintifff recovered more than the
garnishee admitted by his answer; and if he do not, the garnishee shall recover
costs of the plaintifff. The costs shall include an attorney's fee of twenty-five
dollars, to be taxed in favor of the prevailing party. In all other cases under
this chapter, not expressly provided for, the court may award costs in favor of
or against any party, in its discretion. When there is no issue for trial, and
any liability on the part of the garnishee is disclosed, the costs of the garnish
ment proceedings shall be taxed for the plaintifff, if he recovers, as disburse
ments in the principal action. 

§ 200*. Sections two hundred, two hundred and two, two hundred
and six, two hundred and fifteen, two hundred and seventeen, two hundred and
eighteen, two hundred and nineteen, and two hundred and twenty of chapter
eighty of the laws of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and all acts and parts
of acts in conflict with this act, are hereby repealed. 

§ 201. The copy of the order and notice
shall be served upon the garnishee, as follows: If he be a person, they shall be
served upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence; if a corpora
tion, they shall be left with the president or other head of the same, or the secre
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof. 
§ 203. Different attachments of the
same property may be made by the same officer, and one inventory and appraise
ment shall be sufficient; and it shall not be necessary to return the same with
more than one order. 
§ 204. Where property is under at
tachment, it shall be attached under subsequent orders, as follows: First, If it
be real property, it shall be attached in .he manner prescribed in section one
hundred and ninety-eight. Second, If it be personal property, it shall be at
tached as in the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous attachment.
Third, If the same person or corporation be made a garnishee, a copy of the
order and notice shall be left with him in the manner prescribed in section two
hundred and one. 
§ 205. The officer shall return, upon every
order of attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show the
property attached, and the time it was attached; when garnishees are served,
their names, and the time each was served, must be stated. The officer shall
also return with the order all undertakings given under it. 

§ 207. The court, or any judge thereof, during
vacation, may, on application of the plaintifff, and on good cause shown, appoint
a receiver, who shall take an oath faithfully to discharge his duty, and shall give
an undertaking to the state of Kansas, in such sum as the court or judge may
direct, and with such security as shall be approved by the clerk of such court,
for the faithful performance of his duty as such receiver, and to pay over all
money and account for all property which may come into his hands by virtue of
his appointment, at such times and in such manner as the court may direct.

§ 208. Such receiver shall take posses
sion of all notes, due bills, books of account, accounts and all other evidences of
debt that have been taken, by the sheriff or other officer, as the property of the
defendant in attachment, and shall proceed to settle and collect the same. For
that purpose, be may commence and maintain actions in his own name as such
receiver; but in such actions, no right of defense shall be impaired or affected.

§ 209. Such receiver shall
forthwith give notice of his appointment to the persons indebted to the defend
ant in attachment. The notice shall be written or printed, and shall be served
on the debtor or debtors, by copy personally, or by copy left at the residence of
the debtor or debtors; and from the date of such service, the debtors shall stand
liable to the plaintifff in attachment for the amount of monies or credits in their
hands, or due from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall account there
for to the receiver. 
§ 210. Such receiver shall, when required,
report his proceedings to the court, and hold all monies collected by him, and
the property which may come into his hands, subject to the order of the court.

§ 211. Where a receiver is not ap
pointed by the court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hundred and
seven, the sheriff or other officer attaching the property, shall have all the powers
and perform all the duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge, and
may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in his own name as such
officer. He may be required to give security other than his official undertaking.

§ 212. The court shall make
proper orders for the preservation of the property during the pendency of the
rait; it may direct a sale of property, when, because of its perishable nature, or
of the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the benefit of the parties. In vaca
tion, such sale may be ordered by the judge of the court. The sale shall be
pnblic, after such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of like property on
execution, and shall be made in such manner and upon such terms of credit,
with security, as the court or judge, having regard to the probable duration of
the action, may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with all the
money received by him from garnishees, shall be held and paid over by him,
nnder the same requirement and responsibility of himself and sureties, as are
provided in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail. 

§ 213. If the defendant, or
other person on his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to
be executed to the plaintifff, by one or more sureties, resident in the county, to be
approved by the court, in double the amount of the plaintifff' s claim, as stated
in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of
the court, the attachment in such action shall be discharged, and restitution
made of any property taken under it or the proceeds thereof. Such undertak
ing shall, also, discharge the liability of a garnishee in such action, for any prop
erty of the defendant in his hands. 

§ 214. The undertaking men
tioned in the last section may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the
sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or after the return of the
order, before the clerk, with the same effect as if executed in court, the sureties
in either case to be approved by the officer before whom the undertaking is
executed. 

§ 215a. When any corporation shall
be notified to appear and answer as garnishee of any defendant, pursuant to sections 200, 201 and 202, of said chapter 80, the answer, required to be made
by such garnishee by section 215 of said chapter, shall not be required in any
case in less than fifteen days from the service of the order and notice, and
interrogatories, if any; and when neither the president or other head of such
corporation, nor the secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof, shall reside
r live, or keep bis office or place of business in the county when [where] the
action is pending, the answer of such garnishee shall not be required in less
than thirty days from the service of the order and notice, and interrogatories, if
any. 

§ 216. A garnishee may
pay the money owing to the defendant by him to the sheriff having the order
of attachment, or into court. He shall be discharged from liability to the
defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifffs claim. He shall
not be subject to costs, beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim
against' him; and if he disclose the property in his hands, or the true amount
owing by him, and deliver and pay the same, according to the order of the
court, he shall be allowed his costs. 

§ 221. If judgment be rendered in
the action for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the prop
erty attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him. 

§ 222. If judgment be rendered for
the plaintifff, it shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining
in the hands of the officer, after applying the monies arising from the sale of
perishable property, and so much of the personal property and lands and tene
ments, if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may be necessary to
satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the court, under the same restric
tions and regulations as if the same had been levied on by execution; and the
money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered from the
garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If there be not
enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and execution may issue
thereon for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any surplus of the
attached property or its proceeds shall be returned to the defendant 

§ 223. The court may com
pel the delivery to the sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which
an undertaking may have been given, and may proceed summarily, on such un
dertaking, to enforce the delivery of the property, or the payment of such smn
as may be due upon the undertaking, by rules and attachments, as in cases of
contempt. 

§ 224. The court may order the sheriff
to repossess himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached prop
erty, which may have passed out of his hands, without having been sold or con
verted into money; and the sheriff shall, under such order, have the same power
to take the property as he would have under an order of attachment. 
§ 225. Where several attachments are
executed upon the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the
court, on motion of any of the plaintifffs, may order a reference, to ascertain and
report the amounts and priorities of the several attachments, or may determine
anv such amount and priorities without such reference. 
§ 226. From the time of the issuing of
the order of attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction
and to have control of all subsequent proceedings under the attachment; and if,
after the issuing of the order, the defendant, being a person, should die, or a
corporation, and its charter should expire by limitation, forfeiture or otherwise,
the proceedings shall be carried on; but in all such cases, other than where the
defendant was a foreign corporation, his legal representatives shall be made par
ties to the action. 
§ 227. The defendant may, at any time
before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for ad
ditional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court
is satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's undertaking has removed from this
state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of
attachment and direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless, in a
reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given by the
plaintifff. 
§ 228. The defendant may,
at any time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move to
discharge an attachment, as to the whole or part of the property attached. 

§ 229. If the motion be made upon
affidavits, on the part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but
not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence,
in addition to that on which the order of attachment was made. 
§ 230. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed or
otherwise disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud
his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the collection of their debts, or is about
to make such sale or conveyance or disposition of liis property, with such fraudu
lent intent, or is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, with
the intent or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hinder
ing or delaying them in the collection of their debts, a creditor may b/ing an
action on his claim before it is due, and have an attachment against the property
of the debtor. 

§ 231. The attachment authorized by the
last section may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by
the judge thereof, or, in his absence from the county, by the probate judge of
the county in which the action is brought; but before such action shall be
brought, or such attachment shall be granted, the plaintifff, or his agent or
attorney, shall make an oath in writing, showing the nature and amount of the
plaintifff's claim, that it is just, when the same will become due, and the exist
ence of some one of the grounds for an attachment enumerated in the preced
ing section. 
§232. If the court
or judge refuse to grant an order of attachment, the action shall be dismissed,
but without prejudice to a future action; and in all such actions, application for
an attachment must be made. 
§ 233. The order of the court
or judge granting the attachment shall specify the amount for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, and the probable
costs of the action. 
§ 234. The order of attachment, as
granted by the court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there has
been executed, in his office, an undertaking, on the part of the plaintifff, as in
case of any ordinary attachment 

§ 235. The plaintifff in such ac
tion shall not have judgment on his claim before it is due, but the proceedings
on the attachment may be conducted without delay. 
§ 236. The proceedings appli
cable to attachments issued by the clerk in ordinary cases, shall regulate the
attachment granted by the court or judge, as far as applicable. 

§ 237. The injunction provided by this
code is a command to refrain from a particular act It may be the final judg
ment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional remedy, and, when so
allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of injunction is abolished. 
§ 238. When it appears, by the petition,
that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the
commission or continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce injury
to the plaintifff; or when, during the litigation, it appears that the defendant is
doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done,
some act in violation of the plaintifff's rights respecting the subject of the action,
and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be
granted to restrain such act. And when, during the pendency of an action, it
shall appear, by affidavit, that the defendant threatens or is about to remove or
dispose of his property with intent to defraud his creditors, or to render the judg
ment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such removal
or disposition. It may, also, be granted in any case where it is specially author
ized by statute. 

§ 239. The in
junction may be granted at the time of commencing the action, or any time
afterwards, before judgment, by the district court, or the judge thereof, or, in his
absence from the county, by the probate judge, upon its appearing satisfactorily
to the court or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or his agent, that the plaint
iff is entitled thereto. 

§ 240. If the court or judge deem it
proper that the defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before grant
ing the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to be given to such party to
attend for such purpose, at a specified time and place, and may, in the meantime,
restrain such party. 

§ 241. An injunction shall not be granted
against a party who has answered, unless upon notice; but such party may be
restrained until the decision of the application for an injunction. 

§ 242. No injunction, unless otherwise
provided by special statute, shall operate, until the party obtaining the same
shall give an undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient securities, to be
approved by the clerk of the court granting such injunction, in an amount to
be fixed by the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the party injured
the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided that the injunction ought
not to have been granted. 

§ 243. The order of in
junction shall be addressed to the party enjoined, shall state the injunction,
and shall be issued by the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at the com
mencement of the action, the clerk shall indorse upon the summons "Injunc
tion allowed," and it shall not be necessary to issue the order of injunction, nor
shall it be necessary to issue the same where notice of the application therefore
has been given to the party enjoined. The service of the summons so indorsed,
or the notice of an application for an injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.

§ 244. Where the injunction is allowed
during ihe litigation, and without notice of the application therefore, the order of
injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff, shall forthwith serve the same upon
each party enjoined, in the manner prescribed for serving a summons, and make
return thereof without delay. 
§ 245. An injunction binds the party from
the time he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the applicant
therefore is executed. [
§ 246. No injunction shall be granted by
a judge, after a motion therefore has been overruled on the merits of the appli
cation, by his court; and where it has been refused by the court in which the
action is brought, or a judge thereof, it shall not be granted to the same appli
cant, bv a court of inferior jurisdiction, or any judge thereof. 
§ 247. An injunction granted
by a judge, may be enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of any in
junction may be punished as a contempt, by the court or any judge who might
have granted it in vacation. An attachment may be issued by the court or
judge, upon being satisfied, by affidavit, of the breach of the injunction, against
the party guilty of the same, and he may be required, in the discretion of the
court or judge, to pay a fine not exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use of
the county, to make immediate restitution to the party injured, and give further
security to obey the injunction; or, in default thereof, he may be committed to
close custody, until he shall fully comply with such requirements, or be other
wise legally discharged. 

§ 248. A party enjoined may, at any
time before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has obtained
the injunction, move the court for additional security; and if it appear that the
•urety in the undertaking has removed from the state, or is insufficient, the court
may vacate the injunction, unless, in a reasonable time, sufficient security is
given. 

§ 249. On the hearing of an application
for an injunction, each party may read affidavits. All affidavits shall be filed.
§ 250. If the injunction be
granted without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply,
upon notice, to the court in which the action is brought, or any judge thereof,
to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made upon the petition
and affidavits upon winch the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer. The order of the judge,
allowing, dissolving or modifying an injunction, shall be returned to the office
of the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, and recorded and
obeyed, as if made by the court. 

§ 251. If application be made upon affi
davits, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which the in
junction was granted. 

§ 252. A defendant may
obtain an injunction upon an answer, in the nature of a counterclaim. He shall
proceed in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. 

§ 253. An injunction may be granted
to enjoin the illegal levy of any tax, charge or assessment, or the collection of any
illegal tax, charge or assessment, or any proceeding to enforce the same; and any
number of persons whose property is affected by a tax or assessment so levied,
may unite in the petition filed to obtain such injunction. An injunction may
be granted in the name of the state to enjoin and suppress the keeping and
maintaining of a common nuisance. The petition therefore shall be verified by
the county attorney of the proper county, or by the attorney general, upon in
formation and belief, and no bond shall be required. 

§ 254. A receiver may be appointed
by the supreme court, the district court, or any judge of either, or in the ab
sence of said judges from the county, by the probate judge: First, In an action
by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to
subject any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the plaint
iff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or the
proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund
is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured. Second, In an action
by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage and sale of the mortgaged
property, where it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured, or that the condition of the mortgage has
not been performed, and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge
the mortgage debt. Third, After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect
Fourth, After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the judgment,
or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of
execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, or when the judg
ment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment.
Fifth, In the cases provided in this code, and by special statutes, when a cor
poration has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolv
ency, or has forfeited its corporate rights. Sixth, In all other cases where
receivers have heretofore been appointed by the usages of the courts of equity.

§ 255. No party, or attorney, or person
interested in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein. 

§ 256. Before entering upon his duties, the re
ceiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties,
approved by the court or judge, execute an undertaking to such person, and in
such sum as the court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faithfully
discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court
therein. 
§ 257. The receiver has, under the control
of the court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name, as receiver; to
take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, to com
pound for and compromise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do such
acts respecting the property as the court may authorize. 

§ 258. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be invested
upon interest, by order of the court; but no such order shall be made, except
upon the consent of all the parties to the action. 
§ 259. When it is admitted, by the
pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession or under his
control any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject
of litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is
due to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direction
of the court. 

§ 260. Whenever, in the exercise of
its authority, a court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience
as for a contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money,
or thing:, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court.
§ 261. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party, and contfoverted by the other.
They are two kinds: First, Of law. Second, Of fact 

§ 262. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer
to the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof. 

§ 263. An issue of facts arises: First, Upon a
material allegation in the petition, controverted by the answer; or, second,
upon new matter in the answer, controverted by the reply; or, third, upon
new matter in the reply, which shall be considered as controverted by the de
fendant without further pleading. 
§ 264. Issues, both of law and fact, may
arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases
the issues of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct 
§ 265. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or fact, in an action. 
§ 266. Issues of law must be tried by the
court, unless referred. Issues of fact arising in actions for the recovery of
money, or of specific real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury, unless
a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordered, as hereinafter provided. 

§ 267. All other issues of fact shall be tried
by the court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a
jury, or referred as provided in this code. 

§ 268. A separate trial between the plaintifff
and any or all of several defendants, may be allowed by the court, whenever
justice will be thereby promoted. 

§ 269. The general mode of summoning
the jury is such as is or may be provided by law. 
§ 270. If there shall be impan
eled, for the trial of any cause, any petit juror, who shall have been convicted
of any crime which by law renders him disqualified to serve on a jurv; or who
lias been arbitrator on either side, relating to the same controversy; or who has
an interest in the cause; or who has an action pending between him and either
party; or who has formerly been a juror in the same cause; or who is the em
ployer, employe, counselor, agent, steward or attorney of either party; or who
is subpoenaed as a witness; or who is of kin to either party; or any person who
shall have served once already on a jury, as a talesman on the trial of any cause,
in the same court during the term, he may be challenged for such causes; in
either of which cases the same shall be considered as a principal challenge, and
the validity thereof be tried by the court; and any petit juror who shall be re
turned upon the trial of any of the causes hereinbefore specified, against whom
no principal cause of challenge can be alleged, may, nevertheless, be challenged
on suspicion of prejudice against, or partiality for, either party, or for want of
competent knowledge of the English language, or any other cause that may
render him, at the time, an unsuitable juror; and the validity of such challenge
shall be determined by the court. 

§ 271. The plaintifff first, and afterward
the defendant, shall complete his challenges for cause. They may then, in
torn, in the same order, have the right to challenge one juror each, until each
shall have peremptorily challenged three jurors, but no more. 
§ 272. After each challenge, the vacancy
•hall be filled before further challenges are made; and any new juror thus in
troduced may be challenged for cause as well as peremptorily. [
§ 273. When the requisite number of jurors cannot
otherwise be obtained, the sheriff shall select talesmen to supply the deficiency
from the bystanders, or the body of the county, as the court may direct. 
§ 274. The jury shall be sworn to well and truly
try the matters submitted to them in the case in hearing, and a true verdict
give, according to the law and the evidence. 

§ 275. When the jury has been
sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order unless the court for special
reasons otherwise directs:
First, The party on whom rests the burden of the issues may briefly state
his case, and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.
Second, The adverse party may then briefly state his defense, and the evi
dence he expects to offer in support of it.
Third, The party on whom rests the burden of the issues must first produce
his evidence; after he has closed his evidence the adverse party may interpose
and file a demurrer thereto, upon the ground that no cause of action or defense
is proved. If the court shall sustain the demurrer, such judgment shall be
rendered for the party demurring as the state of the pleadings or the proof
shall demand. If the demurrer be overruled, the adverse party will then pro
duce his evidence.
Fourth, The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence unless the
court for good reasons in furtherance of justice permits them to offer evidence
in their original case.
Fifth, When the evidence is concluded and either party desires special in
structions to be given to the jury, such instructions shall be reduced to writing,
numbered, and signed by the party or his aUorney asking the same, and deliv
ered to the court. The court shall give general instructions to the jury, which
shall be in writing, and be numbered, and signed by the judge, if required by
either party.
Sixth, When either party asks special instructions to be given to the jury,
the court shall either give such instructions as requested, or positively re
fuse to do so; or give the instructions with a modification in such manner that
it shall distinctly appear what instructions were given in whole or part, and in
like manner those refused, so that either party may except to the instructions as
asked for, or as modified, or to the modification, or to the refusal. All instruc
tions given by the court must be signed by the judge, and filed together with
those asked for by the parties as a part of the record.
Seventh, After the instructions have been given to the jury, the cause may
be argued. 

§ 276. A party excepting to the
giving of instructions, or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a
formal bill of exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to write at the close of each
instruction, ' ' Refused and excepted to, " or, " Given and excepted to, ' ' which
shall be signed by the judge. 

§ 277. Whenever, in the opinion of the court,
it is proper for the jury to have a view of the property which is the subject of
litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which
6hall be shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that pur
pose. While the jury are thus absent, no person, other than the person so ap
pointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial. 
§ 278. When the case is finally submitted
to the jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire,
they must be kept together, in some convenient place, under charge of an officer,
until they agree upon a verdict or be discharged by the court, subject to the
discretion of the court to permit them to separate temporarily at night, and at
their meals. The officer having them under his charge shall not suffer any
communication to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if
they are agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court; and he shall
not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. 

§ 279. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished
by the court that it is their duty not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be
addressed by, any other person, on any subject of the trial, and that it is their
datv not to form or express an opinion thereon, until the case is finally sub
mitted to them. 
§ 280. After the jury have retired for delib
eration, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testi
mony, or if they desire to be informed as to any part of the law arising in the
case, they may request the officer to conduct them to the court, where the in
formation on the point of law shall be given in writing, and the court may give
its recollections as to the testimony on the point in dispute, in the presence of, or
after notice to, the parties or their counsel. 

§ 281. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their
discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have been kept together
until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing. 
§ 282. In all cases where the jury
are discharged during the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, it may
be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the court may direct. 
§ 283. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by the clerk, and their
verdict rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is announced, either party
may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or the court ask
ing each juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the jury
must again be sent out, for further deliberation. 

§ 284. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is
their verdict. If any juror disagrees, the jury must be sent out again; but if
no disagreement be expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled,
the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the case. If, however,
the verdict be defective in form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury,
before they are discharged, be corrected by the court. 

§ 285. The verdict of a jury is either
general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce gener
ally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant.
A special verdict is that by which the jury finds facts only. It must present
the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;
and they must be so presented as that nothing remains to the court but to draw
from them conclusions of law. 

§ 286. In all cases the jury
6hall render a general verdict, and the court shall in any case at the request of
the parties thereto, or either of them, in addition to the general verdict, direct
the jury to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in writing by the
party or parties requesting the same. 

§ 287. When the special find
ing of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the lat
ter, and the court may give judgment accordingly. 

§ 288. When, by the verdict, either
party is entitled to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their ver
dict, must assess the amount of recovery. 

§ 289. The trial by jury may be waived by
the parties, in actions arising on contract, and with the assent of the court in
other actions, in the following manner: By the consent of the party appearing,
when the other party fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. By
written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk. By oral con
sent, in open court, entered on the journal. 
§ 290. Upon the trial of questions of fact
by the court, it shall not be necessary for the court to state its findings, except
generally, for the plaintifff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it,
with the view of excepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of law
involved in the trial; in which case the court shall state, in writing, the con
clusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law. 

§ 291. All or any of the issues in the ac
tion, whether of fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written con
sent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in court, entered upon the journal.
§ 292. When the parties do not consent, the
court may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion, direct a refer
ence in either of the following cases: Where the trial of an issue of fact shall
require the examination of mutual accounts, or when the account is on one side
only, and it shall be made to appear to the court that it is necessary that the
party on the other side should be examined as a witness to prove the account;
in which case the referees may be directed to hear and report upon the whole
issue, or upon any specific question of fact involved therein; or where the tak
ing of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court before
judgment, in cases which may be determined by the court, or for carrying a
judgment into effect; or where a question of fact other than upon the pleadings,
shall arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of an action. 

§ 293. A trial before referees is con
ducted in the same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same power
to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to administer all necessary
oaths in the trial of the case, and to grant adjournments, as the court, upon
inch trial. They must state the facts found and the conclusions of law separ
ately, and their decisions must be given, and may be excepted to and reviewed
in like manner. The report of the referees upon the whole issue stands as the
decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner
as if the action had been tried by the court. When the referee is to report the
facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict. 

§ 294. In all cases of reference, the
parties, except when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable per
son or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accord
ingly, and if the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more
referees, not exceeding three, who shall be free from exception. 
§ 295. It shall be the duty of the ref
erees to sign any true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them made
in the case, and return the same, with their report, to the court making the refer
ence. 

§ 296. A judge, in vacation, upon the
written consent of the parties, may make an order of reference which the court
of which he is a member could make in term time. In such case, the order of
reference shall be made on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and
shall be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other papers in the case.
§ 297. The referees must be 6worn or affirmed
well and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and true
report therein, according to the best of their understanding. The oath may be
administered by any person authorized to take depositions. 
§ 298. The referees shall be allowed such com
pensation for their services as the court may deem just and proper, which shall
be taxed as part of the costs in the case. 
§ 299. An exception is an objection taken
to a decision of the court or judge upon a matter of law. 

§ 300. The party objecting to the decision must
except at the time the decision is made, and time may be given to reduce the
exception to writing, but not beyond the term. If the decision objected to is
made in vacation or at chambers, the judge may give time to reduce the excep
tion to writing, not exceeding ten days. 
§ 301. No particular form of exception is
required. The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is
necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. 

§ 302. Where the decision objected to
is entered on the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at the end of the
decision, that he excepts. 

§ 303. Where the decision is not en
tered on the record, or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the
entry, the party excepting must reduce his exceptions to writing, and present it
to the judge for his allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to allow
and sign it; whereupon it shall be filed with the pleadings as a part of the rec
ord, but not spread at large on the journal. If the writing is not true, the judge
shall correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and it shall then be signed
as aforesaid. 

§ 304. No exception shall be regarded,
unless it is material and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party ex
iting. 
§ 305. Exceptions taken to the de■cision
of any court of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from
the files by the party taking the same, at any time before proceedings in error
are commenced. 
§ 306. A new trial is a re-examination,
in the same court, of an issue of fact, after a verdict by a jury, report of a ref
eree, or a decision by the court. The former verdict, report or decision shall
be vacated, and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes, affecting materially the substantial rights of
such party:
First, Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee, or prevail
ing party, or any order of the court or referee, 'or abuse of discretion, by which
the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second, Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party. •
Third, Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against.
Fourth, Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influ
ence of passion or prejudice.
Fifth, Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large
or too small, where the action is upon a contract, or for the injury or detention
of property.
Sixth, That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained by sufficient evi
dence, or is contrary to law.
Seventh, Newly-discovered evidence, material for the party applying, which
he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
the trial.
Eighth, Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application. 

§ 307. A new trial shall
not be granted on account of the smallness of the damages, in an action for an
injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other action where the damages
shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained. 
§ 308. The application for' a new trial
must be made at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered; and, ex
cept for the cause of newly-discovered evidence, material for the party apply
ing, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced
at the trial, shall be within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered
unless unvoidably prevented. 

§ 309. The application must be by
motion, upon written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion. The
causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven, of section three hun
dred and six, must be sustained by affidavits, showing their truth, and may be
controverted by affidavits. 
§ 310. Where the grounds for a new
trial could not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are
discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of referee or decision was
rendered or made, the application may be made by petition, filed as in other
cases, not later than the second term after discovery; on which a summons shall
issue, be returnable and served, or publication made, as prescribed in section
seventy-four. The facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied
without answer, and if the service shall be complete in vacation, the case shall
be heard and summarily decided at the ensuing term, and if in term, it shall be
heard and decided after the expiration of twenty days from such service. The
case shall be placed on the trial docket, and the witnesses shall be examined in
open court, or their depositions taken as in other cases; but no such petition
shall be filed more than one year after the final judgment was rendered. 

§ 311. Whenever damages are recover
able, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which he may
be entitled for the cause of action established. 

§ 312. The provisions of this article
respecting trials by jury apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court 
§ 313. A trial docket shall be made out by the
clerk of court, at least twelve days before the first day of each term of the court,
and the actions shall be set for particular days in the order hereinafter stated,
and so arranged that the cases set for each day shall be tried as nearly as may
bo on that day, namely: First, Issues of fact to be tried by a jury; second,
issues of fact to be tried by the court; third, issues of law. If the defend
ant fails to answer or demur, the cause, for the purpose of this section, shall be
deemed to be at issue upon questions of fact; but in every such case the plaint
iff may move for and take such judgment as he ifl entitled to on the defend
ant' s default on or after the day on which said action shall be set for trial. No
witnesses shall be subpoenaed in any case while the cause stands upon issue of
law; and whenever the court shall regard the demurrer in any case as frivolous,
and put in for delay only, no leave to answer or reply shall be given, unless
upon payment of all costs then accrued in the action. 

§ 314. The trial of an issue of fact, and the as
sessment of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which they are placed
on the trial docket, unless by the consent of the parties or the order of the court
they are continued or placed at the heel of the docket, unless the court, in its
discretion, shall otherwise direct. The court may, in its discretion, hear at any
time a motion, and may by rule prescribe the time for hearing motions. 

§ 315. Actions shall be triable at the first term of
the court after the issues therein by the times fixed for pleading are, or shall
have been made up ten days before the term. When issues of law are made
up either before or during a term of court, but after the period for preparing
the trial docket of such term, the clerk shall place such actions on the trial
docket of that term; and when any demurrer shall be adjudged to be frivolous,
the cause shall stand for hearing or trial in like manner as if an issue of fact had
been joined in the first instance; but the court may in its discretion fix specially
the time when such cause shall stand for trial. 

§ 316. The court may, for good cause shown,
continue an action at any stage of the proceedings, upon such terms as may be
just When a continuance is granted on account of the absence of evidence, it
shall be at the cost of the party making the application, unless the court other
wise order. 

§ 817. A motion for a continuance,
on account of the absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit, show
ing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due dili
gence has been used to obtain it, and where the evidence may be; and if it is
for an absent witness, the affidavit must show where the witness resides, if his
residence is known to the party, and the probability of procuring his testimony
within a reasonable time, and what facts he believes the witness will prove, and
that he believes them to be true. If, thereupon, the adverse party will consent
that on the trial the facts alleged in the affidavit shall be read and treated as
the deposition of the absent witness, or that the facts in relation to other evi
dence shall be taken as proved to the extent alleged in the affidavit, no contin
uance shall be granted on the ground of the absence of such evidence. 
§ 318. The clerk shall make ont a copy of the
trial docket for the use of the bar, before the first day of the term of court.

§ 319. No person shall be disqualified as
a witness in any civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in the event
of the same, as a party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a crime;
but such interest or conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting his
credibility. 

§ 320. Nothing in the preced
ing section contained shall, in any manner, affect the laws now existing, relating
to the settlement of estates of deceased persons, infants, idiots or lunatics, or
the attestation of the execution of last wills and testaments, or of conveyances
of real estate, or of any other instrument required by law to be attested. 

§ 321. Any party to a civil action or
proceeding may compel any adverse party or person, for whose benefit such
action or proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or defended, at the trial, or by
deposition, to testify as a witness in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules, as other witnesses. 
§ 322. No party shall be allowed to
testify in his own behalf, in respect to any transaction or communication had
personally by such party with a deceased person, when the adverse partv is
the executor, administrator, heir at law, next of kin, surviving partner or as
signee of such deceased person, where they have acquired title to the cause of
action immediately from such deceased person; nor shall the assignor of a thing
in action be allowed to testify in behalf of such party concerning any transac
tion or communication had personally by such assignor with a deceased person
in any such case; nor shall such party or assignor be competent to testify to anv
transaction had personally by such party or assignor with a deceased partner or
joint contractor in the absence of his surviving partner or joint contractor,
when such surviving partner or joint contractor is an adverse party. If the testi
mony cf a party to the action or proceeding has been taken, and he afterwards
die, and the testimony so taken shall be used after his death, in behalf of his
executors, administrators, heirs at law, next of kin, assignee, surviving partner
or joint contractor, the other party, or the assignor, shall be competent to testify
as to any and all matters to which the testimony so taken relates. 

§ 323. The following persons shall be
incompetent to testify:
First, Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of their production for
examination.
Second-, Children under ten years of age who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating
them truly.
Third, Husband and wife, for or against each other, except concerning trans
actions in which one acted as the agent of the other, or when they are joint
parties and have a joint interest in the action; but in no case shall either be per
mitted to testify concerning any communication made by one to the other during
the marriage, whether called while that relation subsisted, or afterwards.
Fourth, An attorney, concerning any communications made to him by his
client, in that relation, or his advice thereon, without the client's consent.
Fifth, A clergyman or priest concerning any confession made to him in his
professional character in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which
be belongs, without the consent of the person making the confession.
ixth, A physician or surgeon concerning any communication made to him
by his patient with reference to any physical or supposed physical disease, or
any knowledge obtained by a personal examination of any such patient: ProI'ided,
That if a person offer himself as a witness, that is to be deemed a consent
to the examination; also, if an attorney, clergyman or priest, physician or sur
geon on the same subject, within the meaning of the last three subdivisions of
this section. 

§ 324. The clerks of the several courts, and judges
of the probate courts, shall, on application of any person having a cause or any
matter pending in the court, issue a subpoena for witnesses, under the seal of
the court, inserting all the names required by the applicant in one subpoena,
which may be served by the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the county, or
by the party, or any other person. When a subpoena is not served by the
sheriff, coroner or constable, proof of service shall be shown by affidavit; but
no costs of service of the same shall be allowed, except when served by an offi
cer. 
§ 325. The subpoena shall be directed to
the person therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time and place,
to testify as a witness; and it may contain a clause directing the witness to bring
with him any book, writing or other thing, under his control, which he is bound
by law to produce as evidence. 

§ 326. When the attendance of the witness, before
any officer authorized to take depositions, is required, the subpoena shall be is
sued by such officer. 
§ 327. The subpoena shall be served either
by reading or by copy delivered to the witness, or left at his usual place of resi
dence; but such copy need not contain the name of any other witness. 
§ 328. A witness shall not be obliged
to attend for examination on the trial of a civil action except in the county of
his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition out of the county where he
resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is served upon him. 

§ 329. A witness may demand histraveling fees and fee for one day's attendance, when the subpoena is served
upon him; and if the same be not paid, the witness shall not be obliged to obey
the subpoena. The fact of such demand and non-payment shall be stated in the
return. 
§ 330. Disobedience of a subpoena, or refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, when lawfully
ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer by whom his
attendance or testimony is required. 

§ 331. When a witness fails to attend
in obedience to a subpoena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay his
fees), the court or officer before whom his attendance is required may issue an
attachment to the sheriff, coroner or constable of the county, commanding him
to arrest and bring the person therein named before the court or officer, at a
time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his testimony and answer
for the contempt If the attachment be not for immediately bringing the wit
ness before the court or officer, a sum may be fixed in which the witness may
give an undertaking, with surety, for his appearance; such sum shall be in
dorsed on the back of the attachment; and if no sum is so fixed and indorsed,
it shall be one hundred dollars. If the witness be not personally served, the
court may, by a rule, order him to show cause why an attachment should not
issue against him. 
§ 332. The punishment for the cor
tempt mentioned in section three hundred and thirty-one, shall be as follows:
When the witness fails to attend, in obedience to the subpoena (except in case
of a demand and failure to pay his fees), the court or officer may fine the wit
ness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the court or officer
may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, or may imprison him
in the county jail, there to remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify or
give his deposition. The fine imposed by the court shall be paid into the
county treasury, and that imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the
party for whom the witness was subpoenaed. The witness shall, also, be liable
to the party injured for any damages occasioned by his failure to attend, or his
refusal to be sworn, testify or give his deposition. 
§ 333. A witness so impris1 by an officer before whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a
judge of a court of record, who*hall have power to discharge him, if it appears
that his imprisonment is illegal. 
§ 334. Every attachment for the ar
rest, or order of commitment to prison of a witness by a court or officer, pursaa&t
to this chapter, must be under the seal of the court or officer, if he have
an official seal, and must specify, particularly, the cause of arrest or commit
ment; and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the order. Such order of commitment may be directed to
the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the county where such witness resides,
or may be at the time, and shall be executed by committing him to the jail of
such county, and delivering a copy of the order to the jailor. 
§ 335. A person confined to any
prison in this state, may, by order of any court of record, be required to be
produced for oral examination in the county where he is imprisoned, but in all
other cases his examination must be by deposition. 
§ 336. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken,
he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in charge, who shall af
ford reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition. 
§ 337. A witness shall not be liable to be
sued in a county in which he does not reside, by being served with a summons
in such county, while going, returning or attending, in obedience to a subpoena.

§ 338. At the commencement of each day
after the first day, a witness may demand his fees for that day's attendance, in
obedience to a subpoena; and if the same be not paid, he shall not be required
to remain. 
§ 339. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to
testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The mode of ad
ministering an oath shall be such as is most binding on the conscience of the
witness. An interpreter may be sworn to interpret truly, whenever necessary.
§ 340. The testimony of witnesses
is taken in three modes: First, By affidavits. Second, By deposition. Third,
By oral examination. 
§ 341. An affidavit is a written declaration,
under oath, made without notice to the adverse party. 
§ 342. A deposition is a written declara
tion, under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the purpose of en
abling him to attend and cross examine, or upon written interrogatories. 

§ 343. An oral examination is an examina
tion in the presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or act
upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the
witness. 

§ 344. An affidavit may be used to
verify a pleading, to prove the service of a summons, notice or other process in
an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of
proceedings, or upon a motion, or in any other case permitted by law. 
§ 345. An affidavit may be made in and out of
this state, before any person authorized to take depositions, and must be authen
ticated in the same way, except as provided for the verification of pleadings.
§ 346. The deposition of any witness may be used
only in the following cases: First, When the witness does not reside in the
county where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial. by change
of venne, or is absent therefrom. Second, When, from age, infirmity or impris
onment, the witness is unable to attend court, or is dead. Third, When the
testimony is required upon a motion, or in any other case where the oral testi
mony of the witness is not required. 

§ 347. Either parly may
commence taking testimony by deposition at any time after service upon the
defendant. 
§ 348. Depositions may be taken in this state
before a judge or clerk of a court of record, before a county clerk, justice of the
peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate,
or before a master commissioner, or any person empowered by a special com
mission; but depositions taken in this state, to be used therein, must be taken
by an officer or person whose authority is derived within the state. 
§ 349. Depositions may be
taken out of this state by a judge, justice or chancellor of any court of record,
• a justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or
town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take
depositions, or any person authorized by a special commission from this state.
§ 350. The officer before whom depositions
are taken must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or otherwise inter
ested in the event of the action or proceeding. 

§ 351. Any court of record
of this state, or any judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take
depositions within or without the state. The commission must be issued to a
person or persons therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the court grant
ing the same; aud depositions under it must be taken upon written interroga
tories, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
§ 352. Prior to the taking of any
deposition, unless taken under a special commission, a written notice, specifying
the action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be
used, and the time and place of taking the same, shall be served upon the ad
verse party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of resi
dence. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party sufficient time,
by the usual route of travel, to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive
of Sunday and the day of service; and the examination may, if so stated in the
notice, be adjourned from day to day. 

§ 353. When the party against whom
the deposition is to be read is absent from or a non-resident of the state, and
has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be notified of the taking of
the deposition by publication. The publication must be made three consecu
tive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the action or pro
ceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county, and if not, in some
newspaper printed in this state, of general circulation in the county. The pub
lication mast contain all that is required in a written notice, and maj be proved
in the manner prescribed for service by publication at the commencement of
the action. 
§ 354. The deposition shall be written
in the presence of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the witness
or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the witness. 
§ 355. The deposition, so taken, shall be
sealed up and indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the officer
taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to the clerk of the
court where the action or proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal
until opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the request of a party to
the action or proceeding, or his attorney. 

§ 356. The depositions taken pursuant
to this article shall be admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil action or
proceeding, pending before any justice of the peace, mayor or other judicial
officer, arbitrator or referee. 

§ 357. When a deposition has been once taken,
it may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding, or in any other
action or proceeding upon the same matter between the same parties, subject,
however, to all such exceptions as may be taken tb«reto under the provisions of
this article. 
§ 358. Depositions taken
pursuant to this article, by any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take
depositions, having a seal of office, whether resident in this state or elsewhere,
shall be admitted in evidence, upon the certificate and signature of such officer,
under the seal of the court of which he is an officer, or his official seal; and no
other or further act of authentication shall be required. If the officer taking
the same have no official seal, the deposition, if not taken in this state, shall be
certified and signed by such officer, and 6hall be further authenticated, either by
parol proof, adduced in court, or by the official certificate and seal of any sec
retary or other officer of the territory keeping the great seal thereof, or of the
clerk or prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting that such judicial or
other officer was, at the time of taking the same, duly qualified, and acting ai
such officer. But if the deposition be taken within this state by an officer hav
ing no seal, or within or without this state under a special commission, it shall
be sufficiently authenticated by the official signature of the officer or commis
sioner taking the same. 

§ 359. The officer taking the deposition
shall annex thereto a certificate, showing the following facts: That the witness
was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth;
that the deposition was reduced to writing by some proper person, naming him ;
that the deposition was written and subscribed in the presence of the officer
certifying thereto; that the deposition was taken at the time and place specified
in the notice. 
§ 360. When a deposi
tion is offered to be read in evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the
court that, for any cause specified in section three hundred and forty-six, the
attendance of the witness cannot be procured. 
§ 361. Every deposition intended to be read
in evidence on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the day of trial.
§ 362. The following fees shall be allowed for
taking depositions in this state, viz. : Swearing each witness, ten cents; for each
snbpcEna, attachment or order of commitment, fifty cents; for each hundred
words contained in such deposition and certificate, fifteen cents, and no more;
and such officer may retain the same until such fees are paid; such officer shall
also tax the costs of the sheriff or other officer who shall serve the process afore
said, and fees of the witnesses, and may, also, if directed by the person entitled
thereto, retain such deposition until the said fees are paid. 
§ 363. Exceptions to depositions
6hall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers
in the cause. 

§ 364. No exception other than for incom
petency or irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed before the com
mencement of the trial. 

§ 365. The court shall,
on motion of either party, hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions
to depositions, before the commencement of the trial. 

§ 366. Errors of the court, in its decisions
upon exceptions to depositions, are waived, unless excepted to. 

§ 367. Either party may exhibit to
the other, or to his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or docu
ment material to the action, and request an admission, in writing, of its genu
ineness. If the adverse party, or his attorney, fail to give the admission in
writing within four days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper
or document be afterward put to any costs or expense to prove its genuineness,
and the same be finally proved or admitted on the trial, such costs and expen
ses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to make
the admission, unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there
were good reasons for the refusal. 
§ 368. Either party, or his attorney,
may demand of the adverse party an inspection and copy, or permission to take
a copy of a book, paper or document in his possession or under his control,
containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense therein.
Such demand shall be in writing, specifying the book, paper or document with
sufficient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish it, and if com
pliance with the demand, within four days, be refused, the court or judge, on
motion and notice to the adverse party, may, in their discretion, order the ad
verse party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and copy,
or permission to take a copy, of such book, paper or document; and on failure
to comply with such order, the court may exclude the paper or document from
being given in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying, may
direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party, by affidavit, alleges it to
be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling
another to produce any book, paper or document when he is examined as a wit
ness

§ 369. Either party, or his attorney, if
required, shall deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy of any deed,
instrument or other writing whereon the action or defense is founded, or which
he intends to offer in evidence at the trial. If the plaintifff or defendant shall
refuse to furnish the copy or copies required, the party so refusing shall not be
permitted to give in evidence, at the trial, the original of which a copy has been
refused. This section shall not apply to any paper, a copy of which is filed
with a pleading. 
§ 370. Printed copies in volumes of
statutes, codes or other written law, enacted by any other state or territory, or
foreign government, purporting or proved to have been published by the au
thority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing
law in the courts or tribunals of such state, territory or government, shall be
admitted by the courts and officers of this state, on all occasions, as presump
tive evidence of such laws. The unwritten or cqmmon law of any other state,
territory or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol evidence;
and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts, may also be ad
mitted as presumptive evidence of such law. 
§ 371. Copies of
"words and proceedings in the courts of a foreign country may be admitted in
evidence, upon being authenticated as follows: First, By the official attestation
of the clerk or officer in whose custody such records are legally kept; and,
second, by the certificate of one of the judges or magistrates of such court, that
the person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally intrusted with the custody
of such records, and that the signature to his attestation is genuine; and, third,
by the official certificate of the officer who has the custody of the principal seal
of the government under whose authority the court is held, attested by said
seal, stating that such court is duly constituted, specifying the general nature of
its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the court 

§ 372. Copies of all papers author
ized or required by law to be filed or recorded in any public office, or of any
record required by law to be made or kept in any such office, duly certified by
the officer having the legal custody of such paper or record, under his official
seal, if he have one, may be received in evidence with the same effect as the
original, when such original is not in the possession or under the control of the
party desiring to use the same. 
§ 373. The printed statute books of this state,
or of the territory of Kansas, printed under authority, shall be evidence of the
private acts therein contained. 
§ 374. Copies of any act, law or resolu
tion contained in the printed statute books of the states and territories of the
United States, purporting to be printed by authority, and which are now or may
be hereafter deposited in the office of the secretary of this state, and required by
law to be kept there, certified under the hand and seal of office of the secretary
of this state, shall be admitted as evidence. 
§ 375. The printed books contain
ing the acta of the congress of the United States, purporting to be published by
authority of congress, or by authority of the United States, shall be evidence of
the laws, public or private, general, local or special, therein contained. 

§ 378. Public documents, pur
porting to be edited or printed by authority of congress, or either house thereof,
shall be evidence to the same extent that authenticated copies of the same would
be. 
§ 377. Copies of proceedings before
justices of the peace, certified by the justice before whom the proceedings are
had, shall be evidence of such proceedings. 
§ 378. Copies of proceed
ings had before a justice of the peace, where such justice is out of office, certi
fied by the justice who is in possession of the docket and papers of such justice,
shall be received in evidence in any court in this state. 
§ 379. Printed copies of the ordi
nances, resolutions, rules, oiders and by-laws of any city or incorporated town
in this state, published by authority of such city or incorporated town, and
manuscript copies of the same, certified under the hand of the proper officer.
and having the corporate seal of such city or town affixed thereto, shall be re
ceived as evidence. 

§ 380. When, by ordinance or custom
of any religious society or congregation in this state, a record is required to be
kept of marriages, births, baptisms, deaths or interments, such register shall be
admitted as evidence. 
§ 381. Copies of the register referred to in
the preceding section, certified by the pastor or other head of any such society
or congregation, or by the clerk or other keeper of such register, and verified
by his affidavit in writing, shall be received in evidence. 

§ 382. Whenever any written evidence
in a cause shall be in a language other than the English, a written translation
thereof, in the English language, made by a competent translator, and verified
by his affidavit, may be read in evidence instead of the original, if such origi
nal be competent evidence. 
§ 383. The usual duplicate re
ceipt of the receiver of any land office, or, if that be lost or destroyed, or be
yond the reach of the party, the certificate of such receiver that the books of
his office show the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of ti
tle equivalent to a patent against all but the holder of an actual patent. 

§ 384. Copies
of all papers and documents, lawfully deposited in the office of the register or
receiver of any land office of the United States within this state, and copies of
any official letter or communication, received by the register or receiver of any
such land office, from any department of the government of the United States,
when duly certified by the register or receiver having the custody of such pa
per, document, letter or other official communication, shall be received in evi
dence in the same manner and with like effect as the originals. 
§ 385. Exemplifications from the books of
any of the departments of the government of the United States, or any papers
filed therein, shall be admitted in evidence in the same manner and with like
effect as the originals, when attested by the officer having the custody of such
originals. 
§ 386. The signature of the officer to any
certificate or document hereinbefore mentioned, shall be presumed to be genuine
until the contrary is shown. 
§ 387. Entries in books of account
may be admitted in evidence, when it is made to appear by the oath of the per
son who made the entries, that such entries are correct, and were made at or
near the time of the transaction to which they relate, or upon proof of the hand
writing of the person who made the entries, in case of his death or absence from
the county. 
§ 387a. The books and records required
by law to be kept by any probate judge, county clerk, county treasurer, register
of deeds, clerk of the district court, justice of the peace, police judge, or other
public officers, may be received in evidence in any court; and when any such
record is of a paper, document, or instrument authorized to be recorded, and the
original thereof is not in the possession or under the control of the party desir
ing to use the same, such record shall have the same effect as the original; but
no public officer herein named or other custodian of public records, shall be com
pelled to attend any court, officer or tribunal sitting more than one mile from
his office with any record or records belonging to his office or in his custody as
such officer. 

§ 388. The testimony of a witness
may be perpetuated in the manner hereinafter provided. 
§ 389. The applicant shall file in the office of the clerk
of the district court a petition, to be verified, in which shall be set forth, spe
cially, the subject matter relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the
names of the persons interested, if known to the applicant; and if not known,
such general description as he can give of such persons, as heirs, devisees,
alienees or otherwise. The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses
to be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to each; that the ap
plicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of this state, in which such
testimony will, as he believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the im
mediate commencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be plaint
iff. 

§ 390. The court, or a judge
thereof, in vacation, may forthwith make an order allowing the examination of
such witnesses. The order shall prescribe the time and place of the examina
tion, how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof, and the manner
in which they shall be notified. [
§ 391. When it appears satisfactorily to
the court or judge that the parties interested cannot be personally notified, such
court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the petition, and
prepare and file cross interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses
shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon cross in
terrogatories, where they are required to be prepared, and no others shall be
propounded to them; nor shall any statement be received which is not responsive
to some one of them. The attorney filing the cross interrogatories shall be
allowed a reasonable fee therefore, to be taxed in the bill of costs. 
§ 392. Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some one specially author
ized by the court or judge, and shall be returned to the office of the clerk of the
court in which the petition was filed. 
§ 393. The court or judge,
if satisfied that the depositions have been properly taken, and as herein re
quired, shall approve the same and order them to be filed; and if a trial be had
between the parties named in the petition, or their privies or successors in in
terest, such depositions, or certified copies thereof, may be given in evidence by
either party, where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where attendance for
oral examination cannot be obtained or required; but such depositions shall be
subject to the same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency as may be made
to depositions taken pending an action. 
§ 394. The applicant shall pay the costs of all such pro
ceedings. 

§ 395. A judgment is the final determina
tion of the rights of the parties in an action. 

§ 396. Judgment may be given for or against
one or more of several plaintifffs, and for or against one or more of several de
fendants; it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on either side, as
between themselves, and it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to
which he may be entitled. In an action against several defendants, the court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the
action to proceed against the others whenever a several judgment may be proper.
The court may also dismiss the petition with costs, in favor of one or more de
fendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintifff to serve the
summons on other defendants, or proceed in the cause against the defendant or
defendants served. 

§ 397. An action may be dismissed, with
out prejudice to a future action: First, By the plaintifff, before the final sub
mission of the case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
Second, By the court, where the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial. Third,
By the court, for the want of necessary parties. Fourth, By the court, on the
application of some of the defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff
fails to prosecute with diligence. Fifth, By the court, for disobedience by the
plaintifff of an order concerning the proceedings in the action. Sixth, In all
other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be upon the merits.

§ 398. In any place where a
setoff or counterclaim has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of
proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintifff may have dismissed
bis action or failed to appear. 

§ 399. In actions to
enforce a mortgage, deed of trust, or other lien or charge, a personal judgment
or judgments shall be rendered for the amount or amounts due, as well to the
plaintifff as other parties to the action having liens upon the mortgaged premises
by mortgage or otherwise, with interest thereon, and for the sale of the prop
erty charged and the application of the proceeds, or such application may be
reserved for the further order of the court; and the court shall tax the costs,
attorney's fees, and expenses which may accrue in the action, and apportion
the same among the parties according to their respective interests, to be collected
on the order of sale or sales issued thereon; when the same mortgage embraces
separate tracts of land situated in two or more counties, the sheriff of each
county shall make sale of the lands situated in the county of which he is sheriff.
No real estate shall be sold for the payment of any money, or the performance
of any contract or agreement in writing, in security for which it may have been
pledged or assigned, except in pursuance of a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction ordering such sale. 

§ 400. When a judgment
shall be rendered for a conveyance, release or acquittance, in any court of this
state, and the party against whom the judgment shall be rendered does not
comply therewith by the time appointed, such judgment shall have the same
operation and effect, and be as available, as if the conveyance, release or ac
quittance had been executed conformably to such judgment; or the court may
order such conveyance, release or acquittance to be executed in the first instance
by the sheriff; and such conveyance, release or acquittance, so executed, shall
have the same effect as if executed by the party against whom the judgment
was rendered. This section shall apply to decrees rendered or to be rendered
in suits now pending. 

§ 401. If the taking of an account, or the proof
of a fact, or the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to pro
nounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of
law, the court may, with the assent of the party not in default, take the account,
hear the proof, or assess the damages; or may, with the like assent, refer the
same to a referee or master commissioner, or may direct the same to be as
certained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after
the day on which the action is set for trial. 
§ 402. Any person indebted, or
against whom a cause of action exists, may personally appear in a court of com
petent jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or person having such
cause of action, confess judgment therefore; whereupon judgment shall be en
tered accordingly. 
§ 403. Judgments
may be entered upon confession by an attorney, authorized for that purpose bj
a warrant of attorney, acknowledged or proved as conveyances of land, without
any previous process or proceeding; and judgments so entered shall be a hen
from the date of entry. 
§ 404. The debt or cause of action shall
be briefly stated in the judgment, or in writing, to be filed as pleadings in other
actions. 
§ 405. Before any judgment shall be
entered by confession, an affidavit of the defendant must be filed, stating con
cisely the facts on which the indebtedness arose, and that the amount of such
indebtedness is justly due and owing by the defendant to the plaintifff. 
§ 406. Such judgment shall authorize the same pro
ceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in actions regularly brought
and prosecuted; and the confession shall operate as a release of errors. 
§ 407. Every attorney, who shall con
fess judgment in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, produce
the warrant of attorney for making the same to the court before which he
makes the confession, and the original, or a copy of the warrant, shall be filed
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment shall be entered. 
§ 408. If any person
be in custody in a civil action, at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney,
executed by the person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person
t whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless some attorney, ex
pressly named by the person in custody, be present and sign the warrant of at
torney as a witness. 

§ 409. When a trial by
jury has been had, judgment must be entered by the clerk in conformity to the
verdict, unless it is special, or the court order the case to be reserved for future
argument or consideration. 

§ 410. Where the verdict is
special, or where there has been a special finding on particular questions of fact,
or where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judg
ment shall be entered. 
§ 411. Where, upon the statement in the
pleadings, one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall
be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has been found against such party.

§ 412. If a counter
claim or setoff, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff ' s claim so established,
judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that
the defendant is entitled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given there
for. 
§ 413. It shall not be necessary
to reserve, in a judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause against
it after his attaining full age; but in any case in which, but for this section,
»nch reservation would have been proper, the infant, within one year after ar
riving at the age of twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or
judgment 

§ 414. All judgments and orders must be en
tered on the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or order
made in [the] action. 

§ 415. The clerk shall make a complete record of every
cause as soon as it finally determined, whenever such record shall be ordered by
the court. 
§ 416. He shall make up such record, in each cause, in
the vacation next after the term at which the same was determined; and the
presiding judge of such court shall, at its next term thereafter, subscribe the
same. 

§ 417. The record shall be made up from the petition,
the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts, orders,
judgments, and all material acts and proceedings of the court; but if the items
of an account, or the copies of papers attached to the pleadings, be voluminous,
the court may order the record to be made by abbreviating the same, or insert
ing a pertinent description thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence
mast not be recorded. 
§ 418. When the judicial acts or other
proceedings of any court have not been regularly brought up and recorded by
the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be made up and recorded
within such time as it may direct. When they are made up, and, upon
examination, found to be correct, the presiding judge of such court shall sub
scribe the same. 
§ 419. Judgments of courts of record, of this
state, and of courts of the United States rendered within this state, shall be liens
on the real estate of the debtor, within the county in which the judgment is ren
dered, from the first day of the term at which the judgment is rendered; but
judgments by confession, and judgments rendered at the same term during
which the action was commenced, shall bind such lands only from the day on
which such judgment was rendered. An attested copy of the journal entry of
any judgment, together with a statement of the costs taxed against the debtor
in the case, may be filed in the office of the clerk of the district court of any
county, and such judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the debtor, within
that county, from the date of filing such copy. The clerk shall enter such judg
ment on the appearance and judgment dockets in the same manner as if rendered
in the court of which he is clerk. Executions shall only be issued from the
court in which the judgment is rendered. 

§ 420. In addition to the causes of
action which survive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for
an injury to the person, or to real or personal estate, or for any deceit or fraud,
shall also survive; and the action may be brought, notwithstanding the death
of the person entitled or liable to the same. 

§ 421. No action pending in any court shall abate
by the death of either or both the parties thereto, except an action for libel,
slander, malicious prosecntion, for a nuisance, or against a justice of the peace
for misconduct in office, which shall abate by the death of the defendant. 
§ 422. When the death of
one is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, the personal repre
sentatives of the former may maintain an action therefore against the latter, if
the former might have maintained an action had he lived, against the latter for
an injury for the same act or omission. The action must be commenced with
in two years. The damages cannot exceed ten thousand dollars, and must inure
to the exclusive benefit of the widow and children, if any, or next of kin, to be
distributed in the same manner as personal property of the deceased. 

§ 422a. That in all cases where the residence of the
party whose death has been or hereafter shall be caused as set forth in section
422 of chapter 80, Laws of 1868, is or has been at the time of his death in any
other state or territory, or when, being a resident of this state, no personal rep
resentative is or has been appointed, the action provided in said section 422
may be brought by the widow, or where there is no widow, by the next of kin
of such deceased. 

§ 423. Where there are several plaintifffs or
defendants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal repre
sentative cease, if the right of action survive to or against the remaining parties
the action may proceed, the death of the party or the cessation of his powers
being stated on the record. 

§ 424. Where one of several
plaintifffs or defendants dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if
the cause of action do not admit of survivorship, and the court is of opinion
that the merits of the controversy can be properly determined and the principles
applicable to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the same as between
the remaining parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any who were not
parties at the time of trial. 
§ 425. When one of the parties to an action dies, or his
powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if the right of
action survive in favor of or against his representatives or successors, the action
may be revived and proceed in their names. 

§ 426. The revivor shall be by an
order of the court, if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if in vacation, that the
action be revived in the names of the representatives or successor of the party
who died, or whose powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.

§ 427. The order may be made on the motion
of the adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party who died,
or whose powers ceased suggesting his death or the cessation of his powers,
which, with the names and capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be
stated in the order. 
§ 428. If the order is made by the consent
of the parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived; and, if not made by con
sent, notice of the application for such order shall be served in the same manner
and returned within the same time as a summons, upon the party adverse to the
one making the motion; and if sufficient cause be not shown against the revivor,
the order shall be made. 

§ 429. When the plaintifff shall make
an affidavit that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them, in whose
name it is desired to have the action revived, are non-residents of the state, or
have left the same to avoid the service of the order [notice], or so concealed
themselves that the order [notice] cannot be served npon them, or that the names
and residence of the heirs or devisees of the person against whom the action
may be ordered to be revived, or some of them, are unknown to the affiant, a
uotice may be published for three consecutive weeks, notifying them to appear
»n a day therein named, not less than ten days after the publication is complete,
nnd show cause why the action should not be revived against them; and, if suf
ficient cause be not shown to the contrary, the order shall be made. 

§ 430. Upon the death of the
plaintifff in an action, it may be revived in the names of his representatives, to
whom his right has passed. Where his right has passed to his personal repre
sentatives, the revivor shall be in their names; where it has passed to his heirs
or devisees, who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may be
in their names. 

§ 431. Upon the death of t
defendant in an action, wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against
his personal representatives, the revivor shall be against them; and it may,
also, be against the heirs and devisees of the defendant, or both, when the
right of action, or any part thereof, survives against them. 

§ 432. Upon the death of a defendant
in an action for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only hisrights
or claims to such property, the action may be revived against his heirs oi
devisees, or both, and an order therefore may be forthwith made, in the mannei
directed in the preceding sections of this article

§ 433. An order to revive an action
against the representatives or successor of a defendant shall not be made with
out the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one year from
the time it could have been first made. 

§ 434. An order to revive an action, in the
names of the representatives or successor of a plaintifff, may be made forthwith,
but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant, after the expiration
of one year from the time the order might have been first made; but where the
defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased, in the meantime, the
order of revivor, on both sides, may be made in the period limited in the last section. 

§ 435. When it appears to the court,
by affidavit, that either party to an action has been dead for a period so long
that the action cannot be revived in the names of his representatives or success
ors without the consent of both parties, or when a party sues or is sued as a
personal representative, that his powers have ceased, the court shall order the
action to be dismissed at the costs of the plaintifff. 
§ 436. At any term of
the court succeeding the death of the plaintifff, while the action remains on the
docket, the defendant having given the plaintifff's proper representatives, in
whose name the action might be revived, ten days' notice of the application
therefore, may have an order to strike the action from the docket, and for costs
against the estate of the plaintifff, unless the action is forthwith revived. 
§ 437. When, by the provisions of the pre
ceding sections, an action is revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed
by reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial at the term
the revivor is complete, had no death or cessation of powers taken place. 

§ 438. When a judgment
is recovered against one or more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, those
who were not originally summoned may be made parties to the judgment, by
action. 
§ 439. If either or both par
ties die after judgment, and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives,
real or personal, or both, as the case may require, may be made parties to the
same, in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions before judgment;
and such judgment may be rendered, and execution awarded, as might or ought
to be given or awarded against the representatives, real or personal, or both, of
such deceased party. 

§ 440. If a judgment become dormant,
it may be revived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions be
fore judgment. 

§ 441. Executions shall be deemed
process of the court, and shall be issued by the clerk, and directed to the sheriff
of the county. They may be directed to different counties at the same time.
§ 442. Executions are of four kinds:
First, Against the property of the judgment debtor. Second, Against his person.
Third, For the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, with
damages for withholding the same, and costs. Fourth, Executions in special
cases. 
§ 443. Lands, tenements, goods
and chattels, not exempt by Taw, shall be subject to the payment of debts, and
shall be liable to be taken on execution and sold, as hereinafter provided.

§ 444. All real estate, not bound by
the lien of the judgment, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be
bound from the time they shall be seized in execution. 
§ 445. If execution shall not be sued ont
within five years from the date of any judgment that now is or may hereafter
be rendered, in any court of record in this state, or if five years shall have in
tervened between the date of the last execution issued on such judgment and the
time of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall be
come dormant, and shall cease to operate as a lien on the estate of the judg
ment debtor. 

§ 446. The writ of execution against
the property of the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this
state, shall command the officer to whom it is directed, that of the goods and
chattels of the debtor he cause to be made the money specified in the writ; and
for want of goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made of the lands and
tenements of the debtor; and the amount of the debt, damages and costs, for
which the judgment is entered, shall be indorsed on the execution. 

§ 447. When two or more writs of execution
against the same debtor shall be sued out during the term in which judgment
was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and when two or more writs of ex
ecution against the same debtor shall be delivered to the officer on the same
day, no preference shall be given to either of such writs; but if a sufficient sum
of money be not made to satisfy all [such] executions, the amount made shall
be distributed to the several creditors in proportion to the amount of their re
spective demands. In all other cases, the writ of execution first delivered to
the officer shall be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer to
indorse on every writ of execution the time when he received the same; but
nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to affect any preferable lien
which one or more of the judgments, on which execution issued, may have on
the lands of the judgment debtor. 
§ 448. The officer to whom a writ of execution is deliv
ered, shall proceed immediately to levy the same upon the goods and chattels of
the debtor; but if no goods and chattels can be found, the officer shall indorse
on the writ of execution, "No goods," and forthwith levy the writ of execu
tion upon the lands and tenements of the debtor, which may be liable to satisfy
the judgment; and if any of the lands and tenements of the debtor which may
be liable shall be incumbered by mortgage or any other lien or liens, such lands
and tenements may be levied upon and appraised and sold, subject to such lien
or liens, which shall be stated in the appraisement. 

§ 449. If the officer, by
virtue of an execution issued from any court of record in this state, shall levy
the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any person other than the de
fendant, or be requested by the plaintifff to levy on any such goods and chattels,
the officer may require the plaintifff to give him an undertaking, with good and
sufficient securities, to pay all costs and damages that he may sustain by reason
of the detention or sale of such property; and until such undertaking shall be
given, the officer may refuse to proceed as against such property. 

§ 450. In all
cases where a sheriff, coroner or other officer shall, by virtue of an execution,
levy upon any goods and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold, for
want of bidders, for the want of time to advertise and sell, or any other reason
able cause, the officer may, for his own security, take of the defendant an un
dertaking, with security, in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect
tliat the said property shall be delivered to the officer holding an execution
for the sale of the same, at the time and place appointed by said officer, either
by notice, given in writing, to said defendant in execution, or by advertisement,
published in a newspaper printed in the county, naming therein the day and
place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the goods and chattels at
the time and place mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay to the officer
holding the execution the full value of said goods and chattels, or the amount
of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as aforesaid, may be proceeded
on as in other cases. 

§ 451. The officer who levies upon goods and
chattels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record, before he pro
ceeds to sell the same shall cause public notice to be given of the time and place
of sale, for at least ten days before the day of sale. The notice shall be given
by advertisement, published in some newspaper printed in the county, or, in
case no newspaper be printed therein, by setting up advertisements in five pub
lic places in the county. Two advertisements shall be put up in the township
where the sale is to be held; and where goods and chattels levied upon cannot
be sold for want of bidders, the officer making such return shall annex to the
execution a true and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels, and the plaint
iff in such execution may thereupon sue out another writ of execution, directing
the sale of the property levied upon as aforesaid; but such goods and chattels
shall not be sold, unless the time and place of sale be advertised, as hereinbefore
provided. 

§ 452. When any writ shall issue, directing the
sale of property previously taken in execution, the officer issuing said writ shall,
at the request of the person entitled to the benefit thereof, his agent or attorney,
add thereto a command to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed, that
if the property remaining in his hands not sold shall, in his opinion, be insuffi
cient to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy the same upon lands and tenements,
goods and chattels, or either, as the law shall permit, being the property of the
judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt. 

§ 453. If execution be levied upon lands and
tenements, the officer levying such execution shall call an inquest of three dis
interested householders, who shall be resident within the county where the lands
taken in execution are situate, and administer to them an oath, impartially to ap
praise the property so levied on, upon actual view; and such householders shall
forthwith return to said officer, under their hands, an estimate of the real valne
of said property. 

§ 453a. That if the words "appraise
ment waived,", or other words of similar import, shall be inserted in any deed,
mortgage, bond, note, bill or written contract hereafter made, any court ren
dering judgment thereon, shall order as part of the judgment that the same,
and any process issued thereon, shall be enforced, and that lands and tenements
may be sold thereunder without appraisement; and such judgment, and any
process issued thereon, shall be enforced, and sales of lands and tenements
made thereunder, without any appraisement or valuation being made of the
property to be sold: Provided, That no order of sale or execution shall be issued
upon such judgment until the expiration of six months from the time of the
rendition of said judgment. 
§ 453J. All laws and parts of laws in conflict with any of the pro
visions of this act, are hereby repealed. 
§ 454. The officer receiving
such return shall forthwith deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court
from which the writ issued, and advertise and sell such property, agreeably to the
provisions of this article. 

§ 455. If, upon such return, as
aforesaid, it appear, by the inquisition, that two-thirds of the appraised value of
said lands and tenements, so levied upon, is sufficient to satisfy the execution, with
costs, the judgment on which such execution issued shall not operate as a lien on
the residue of the debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment cred
itor; but no such property shall be sold for less than two-thirds of the value re
turned in the inquest; and nothing in this section contained shall, in anywise,
extend to affect the sale of lands by the state, but all lands, the property of in
dividuals indebted to the state for any debt or taxes, or in any other manner,
shall be sold without valuation, for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably
to the laws in such cases made and provided. 
§ 456. If the property of
any clerk, sheriff, coroner, justice of the peace, constable, or any collector of
state, county, town or township tax, shall be levied on for, or on account of,
any monies that now are, or may hereafter be, by them collected or received
in their official capacity, the property so levied on shall be sold without valua
tion. 
§ 457. Lands and tenements taken on execution
shall not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and place of
sale to be given, for at least thirty days before the day of sale, by advertisement
in some newspaper printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed
in the county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein, and by potting
up an advertisement upon the court-house door, and in five other public places
in the county, two of which shall be in the township where such lands and ten
ements lie. All sales made without such advertisement shall be set aside, on
motion, by the court to which the execution is returnable. 

§ 458. If the court, upon the return of any
writ of execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands or tenements have
been soldl shall, after having carefully examined the proceedings of the officer,
be satisfied that the sale has, in all respects, been made in conformity to the
provisions of this article, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on
the journal that the court is satisfied of the legality of such sale, and an order
that the officer make to the purchaser a deed for such lands and tenements; and
the officer, on making such sale, may retain the purchase money in his hands
until the court shall have examined his proceedings, as aforesaid, when he shall
pav the same to the person entitled thereto, agreeably to the order of the court.

§ 459. The sheriff or other officer who, upon
such writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements, or any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser as good and sufficient deed of convey
ance of the lands and tenements sold, as the person or persons against whom
such writ or writs of execution were issued could have made of the same, at or
any time after they became liable to the judgment The deed shall be suffi
cient evidence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings therein, until the
contrary be proved, and shall vest in the purchaser as good and as perfect an
estate in the premises therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at, or after,
the time when such lands and tenements became liable to the satisfaction of the
judgment; and such deed of conveyance, to be made by the sheriff or other of
ficer, shall recite the execution or executions, or the substance thereof, and the
names of the parties, the amount and date of rendition of each judgment, by
virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were sold as aforesaid, and shall
be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is or may be provided by law, to
perfect the conveyance of real estate in other cases. 

§ 460. The officer who levies
upon goods and chattels, or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the
duty of selling the same, by virtue of any writ of execution, may refuse to pub
lish a notice of the sale thereof, by advertisement in a newspaper, until the
party for whose benefit such execution issued, his agent or attorney, shall ad
vance to such officer 60 much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees
of the printer for publishing such notice. 

§ 461. Before any officer shall be excused
from giving the notification, mentioned in the last section, he shall demand of
the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his agent or attorney (pro
vided either of them reside in the county), the fees in said section specified. 

§ 462. All sales of lands
or tenements under execution shall be held at the court house, in the county in
which snch lands and tenements are situated. No sheriff or other officer mak
ing the sale of property, either personal or real, nor any appraiser of such prop
erty, shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase the same; and every purchase,
so made, shall be considered fraudulent and void. 

§ 463. If lands or tenements, levied on as
aforesaid, are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be issued to
sell the property so levied upon. 
§ 464. In all cases
where two or more executions shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other
officer, and it shall be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same, and
either of the judgment creditors, in whose favor one or more of said executions
are issued, shall require the sheriff or other officer to levy said executions, or so
many thereof as may be required, on separate parcels of the real property of
the judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the officer making the levy on behalf
of the creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this article, be enti
tled to a preference, the choice of such part of the real property of the judg
ment debtor or debtors, as will be sufficient, at two-thirds of the appraised value,
to satisfy the same; and in all cases where two or more executions, which are
entitled to no preference over each other, are put into the hands of the same
officer, it shall be the duty of the officer, when required, to levy the same on
separate parcels of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, when,
in the opinion of the appraisers, the same may be divided without material in
jury; and if the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at two-thirds
of its appraised value, to satisfy ail the executions chargeable thereon, such part
of the same shall be levied on, to satisfy each execution, as will bear the same
proportion in value to the whole, as the amount due to the execution bears to
the amount of all the executions chargeable thereon, as near as may be, accord
ing to the appraised value of each separate parcel of said real property. 

§ 465. If the term of service of the sheriff or other
officer who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any lands and tenements,
shall expire, or if the sheriff or other officer shall be absent, or be rendered un
able, by death or otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any
sncceeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a certificate from the court from
which the execution issued for the sale of said lands and tenements, signed by
the clerk, by order of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has been
made to the court that such sale was fairly and legally made; and on tender of
the purchase money, or if the same or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof
of such payment and tender of the balance, if any, may execute to the said pur
chaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives, a deed of conveyance
of said lands and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as good and valid in
law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or other officer who made the sale
had executed the same. 

§ 466. If, on any sale made as aforesaid,
there shall be in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money than is suf
ficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution, with interest and costs, the sheriff
or other officer shall, on demand, pay the balance to the defendant in execution,
or his legal representatives. 

§ 467. If any judg
ment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any lands or tenements are sold, shall
at any time thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect the title of the purchaser or purchasers; but, in such cases, restitution shall be made,
by the judgment creditors, of the money, for which such lands or tenements were
sold, with lawful interest from the day of sale. 

§ 468. No judgment hereto
fore rendered, or which hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall
not have been taken out and levied before the expiration of one year next after
its rendition, shall operate as a lien on the estate of any debtor, to the prejudice
of any other judgment creditor. But in all cases where judgment has been or
may be rendered in the supreme court, and a special mandate awarded to the
district court to carry the same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor
shall continue for one year after the first day of the term of the district court to
which such mandate may be directed. Nothing in this section contained shall
be construed to defeat the Hen of any judgment creditor who shall fail to take
out execution and cause a levy to be made, as herein provided, when cuch fail
ure shall be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or by vacancy
in the office of sheriff or coroner, or the disability of such officer, until one year
after such disability shall be removed. In all cases where real estate has been
or may hereafter be taken on execution and appraised, and twice advertised and
offered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty
of the court from which such execution issued, on motion of the plaintifff, to set
aside such appraisement and order a new one to be made, or to set aside such
levy and appraisement and award a new execution to issue, as the case may re
quire. 

§ 469. The sheriff or other officer, to
whom any writ of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the court
to which the same is returnable, within sixty days from the date thereof.

§ 470. In all cases
where judgment is rendered in any court of record within this state, upon any
instrument of writing in which two or more persons are jointly and severally
bound, and it shall be made to appear to the court, by parol or other testimony,
that one or more of said persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail,
for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court, in
recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of the defendants is principal
debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid
shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or other officer
to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
of the principal debtor; but for want of sufficient property of the principal debtor
to make the same, that he cause the same to be made of the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases, the property, both per
sonal and real, of the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court, shall
be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be taken in
execution. 

§ 471. Each householder, sum
moned to appraise real estate under the provisions of this chapter, shall be al
lowed and receive for his services the sum of fifty cents for each day he may be
so engaged as such appraiser, to be collected on the execution by virtue of
which the property appraised was levied on, if claimed at the time of making the
return of such appraisement. And when any householder, summoned as afore
said, shall fail to appear at the time or place appointed by the officer, and dis
charge his duty as appraiser, he shall, on complaint being made to atiy justice
of the peace of the township in which such householder resides, forfeit and pay
the sum of fifty cents for every such neglect, unless he can render a reasonable
excuse. Such sum shall be collected by said justice, and paid in to the town
ship treasurer, for the use of the township. 
§ 472. If any sheriff or
other officer shall refuse or neglect to execute any writ of execution to him di
rected, which has come to his hands, or shall neglect or refuse to sell any goods
and chattels, lands and tenements; or shall neglect to call an inquest and return
a copy thereof forthwith, to the clerk's office, or shall neglect to return any writ
of execution to the proper court, on or before the return day thereof; or shall
neglect to return a just and perfect inventory of all and singular the goods and
chattels by him taken in execution, unless the said sheriff or other officer shall
return that he has levied and made the amount of the debt, damages and costs;
or shall refuse or neglect, on demand, to pay over to the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney of record, all monies by him collected or received for the use of said
party, at any time after collecting or receiving the same, except as provided in section four hundred and fifty-eight; or shall neglect or refuse, on demand made
by the defendant, his agent or attorney of record, to pay over all monies by
him received for any sale made, beyond what is sufficient to satisfy the writ or
writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such sheriff or other officer
shall, on motion in court, and two days' notice thereof, in writing, be amerced
in the amount of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per cent, thereon, to
and for the use of said plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be. 

§ 473. If any clerk of a court shall neglect
Or refuse, on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or attorney
of record, to pay over all money by him received in his official capacity, for the
use of such persons, every such clerk may be amerced, and the proceedings
against him and his sureties shall be the same as provided for, in the foregoing section, against sheriffs and their sureties. 
§ 474. When the cause of amercement
is for refusing to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or other
officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the amount so withheld, with
ten per cent, thereon. 

§ 475. When an
sxecution is issued to the sheriff of any county other than that in which the
judgment was rendered, the sheriff, after indorsing the date of its reception
thereon, shall deliver the same to the clerk of the district court of his county,
who shall thereupon enter the same in the execution docket in the same manner
as if it had issued from the court of which he is clerk; and before the sheriff
shall return any such writ, he shall cause his return to be entered in like man
ner. 

§ 476. When execution shall be
issued in any county in this state, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of an
other county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner having the execution,
after having discharged all the duties required of him by law, to inclose such exe
cution, by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the same. On proof being
made by such sheriff or coroner, that the execution was mailed soon enough to
have reached the office where it was issued within the time prescribed by law,
the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any amercement or penalty if it do
not reach the office in due time. 
§ 477. No sheriff
shall forward, by mail, any money made on any such execution, unless he shall be
specially instructed to do it by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney of record. In
all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff, or other officer of any county other than
that from which the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such
officer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or at his office, at least
fifteen days before the day on which such motion shall be made. All amerce
ments so procured shall be entered on the record of the court, and shall have
the same force and effect as a judgment. 
§ 478. Each and every
surety of any sheriff or other officer may be made party to the judgment ren
dered as aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to be com
menced and prosecuted as in other cases; but the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of any such surety shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when
sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the sheriff or other officer,
against whom execution may be issued, can be found to satisfy the same. Noth
ing herein contained shall prevent either party from proceeding against such
sheriff or other officer, by attachment, at his election. 

§ 479. In cases where a sheriff or other
officer may be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the original
judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an execution and collect the amount
of said judgment, in the name of the original plaintifff, for his use. 
§ 480. When prop
erty, liable to an execution against several persons, is sold thereon, and more
than a due proportion of the judgment is laid upon the property of .one of them,
or one of them pays, without a sale, more than his proportion, he may compel
contribution from the others; and when a judgment is against several, and is
upon an obligation of one of them, as security for another, and the surety pays
the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before
sale, he may compel repayment from the principal; in such case, the person so
paying or contributing is entitled to the benefit of the judgment, to enforce
contribution or repayment, if within ten days after his payment he file, with the
clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and
claim to contribution or repayment. Upon a filing of such notice, the clerk
shall make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket 

§ 481. When
a judgment debtor has not personal or real property, subject to levy on execu
tion, sufficient to satisfy the judgment, any equitable interest which he may have
in real estate, as mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, or any interest he mar
have in any banking, turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company, or any in
terest he may have in any money, contracts, claims, or choses in action, due or
to become due to him, or in any judgment or decree, or any money, goods or
effects which he may have in the possession of any person, body politic or cor
porate, shall be subject to the payment of such judgment, by action, or as here
inafter prescribed. 

§ 482. When an executioi.
against a judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same judgment, is
sued to the sheriff of the county where he resides, or, if he does not reside
in the state, to the sheriff of the county where judgment was rendered, or a
transcript of a justice's judgment has been filed, is returned unsatisfied, in whole
or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order of the probate judge,
or judge of the district court, of the county to which the execution was issued,
requiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such
judge, or a referee appointed by such judge, at a time and place specified in such
order, within the county to which the execution was issued. 

§ 483. After the issuing of an
execution against property, and upon the affidavit of the judgment creditor, hia
agent or attorney, that the judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refusee
to apply toward the satisfaction of the judgment, the probate judge or
judge of the district court of the county in which the order may be served, may,
by order, require the judgment debtor to appear, at a time and place in said
county, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had, for the application of the property of the judgment debtor toward the
satisfaction of the judgment, as hereinafter prescribed. 

§ 484. Instead of the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the judge
may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the party or otherwise, that
there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, or concealing himself, to avoid
the examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff to arrest
him and bring him before such judge, within the county in which the debtor
may be arrested. Such a warrant can be issued only by a probate judge, or the
judge of the district court, of the county in which such debtor resides or may
be arrested. Upon being brought before the judge, he shall be examined on
oath, and other witnesses may be examined on either side; and if, on such ex
amination, it appear that there is danger of the debtor leaving the state, and
that he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he
may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, in such sum as the judge may
prescribe, with one or more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend for
examination before the judge or referee, as shall bo directed. In default of en
tering into such undertaking, he may be committed to the jail of the county, by
warrant of the judge, as for a contempt. 

§ 485. No person shall,
on examination pursuant to this article, be excused from answering any ques
tion on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of a fraud;
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in a prosecution for
such fraud. 
§ 486. After the
issuing of execution against property, any person indebted to the judgment
debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof ai
may be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the sheriff's receipt shall be a
sufficient discharge for the amount so paid, or directed to be credited by the
judgment creditor on the execution. 

§ 487. After the issuing or
return of an execution against property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of
several debtors in the same judgment, where it is made to appear by affidavit
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that there is reason to believe that
any person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted
to Mm, the judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place within the
county in which such person or corporation may be served with the order to
answer, and answer the same. . The judge may, also, in his discretion, require
notice of such proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such manner
as may seem to him proper. 
§ 488. Witnesses may be required, upon the order
of the judge, to appear and testify upon any proceedings under this article, in
the same manner as upon the trial of an issue. 
§ 489. The party or witness may be required to
attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or judge.
All examinations and answers before a judge or a referee, under this article,
must be on oath, and reduced to writing; but when a corporation answers, the
answer must be on oath of an officer thereof. 
§ 490. The judge
may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands
either of himself or any other person or corporation, or due to the judgment
debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment, and may enforce
the same by proceedings for contempt, in case of refusal or disobedience; but the
earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within three months
next preceding the order, cannot be so applied, when it is made to appear, by
the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use
of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor. 

§ 490a. That the earn
ings of a debtor, who is a resident of this state, for his personal services at any
time within three months next preceding the issuing of an execution, attach
ment or garnishment process, cannot be applied to the payment of his debts
when it is made to appear by the debtor' s affidavit or otherwise that such earn
ings are necessary for the maintenance of a family supported wholly or partly
by his labor: Provided, That at the time of filing such affidavit the debtor shall
notify the plaintifff or his agent or attorneys thereof in writing: And provided.
That nothing herein contained shall prevent the adverse party from controvert
ing the matters sought to be proven by such affidavit by counter affidavit, or if
sought to be proven in any other manner the same may be controverted by any
competent evidence: And provided further, That such counter affidavit shall be
filed within twenty-four hours after the notice of the filing of the said debtor's
affidavit, and final hearing shall be had thereon at a time to be fixed by the
court within ten days from the notice of the filing of the debtor' s affidavit if
pending in the justices' court, and if pending in the district court it shall be
tried at the first term held after filing such affidavit. 

§ 491. The judge
may also, by order, appoint the sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable
person, a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner
and with like authority as if the appointment was made by the court. The judge
may also, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference therewith. 

§ 492. If
it shall appear that the judgment debtor has any equitable interest in real estate
in the county in which proceedings are had, as mortgagor or mortgagee, or oth
erwise, and the interest of said debtor can be ascertained as between himself
and the person or persons holding the legal estate, or the person or persons
having a lien on or interest in the same, without controversy as to the interest
of such person or persons holding such legal estate or interest therein, or lien on
the same, the receiver may be ordered to sell and convey such real estate, or the
debtor's interest therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in all respects, in the
same manner aa is provided by this code for the sale of real estate upon execu
tion; and the proceedings of sale shall, before the execution of the deed, be
approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered, or the transcript has
been filed as aforesaid, aa in case of sale upon execution. 

§ 493. If the sheriff shall be ap
pointed receiver, he and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties as receiver, and no additional oath shall be re
quired of him; if any other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a
written undertaking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by the judge, with one
or more sureties, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of re
ceiver, and he shall also take an oath to the same effect before acting as such
receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section shall be to the state of
Kansas, and actions may be prosecuted for a breach thereof, by any person in
terested, in the same manner as upon a sheriff's official bond. 
§ 494. The receiver shall be vested
with the property and effects ana rights in action of the judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, or such part thereof as the court or judge may order, and may
«ue for, collect, and recover, and dispose of the same, and apply the proceeds
according to the order of the court or judge, and generally may do such acts
concerning the property as the court or judge may authorize. 
§ 495. The court or
judge may order the delivery, to the receiver, by the judgment debtor, or any
other person in whose possession the same may be, any notes, bills, accounts,
contracts, books or other evidences of indebtedness or right in action, of the
judgment debtor, and may enforce such order by attachment, as for a contempt.

§ 496. The judge or referee, acting under the
provisions of this article, shall have power to continue his proceedings, from
time to time, until they shall be completed. 

§ 497. The judge may, in his discretion, order a ref
erence to a referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to report the evidence or
the facts. 
§ 498. If any person, party or witness disobey an
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party or witness may
be punished by the judge, as for a contempt. 
§ 499. The order mentioned in sections four
hundred and eighty-two, four hundred and eighty-three, four hundred and
ninety-one, and four hundred and eighty-seven, shall be in writing, and signed
by the judge making the same, and shall be served as a summons in other
cases. The judge shall reduce all his orders to writing, which, together with a
minute of his proceedings, signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of the
court of the county in which the judgment is rendered, or the transcript of the
justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his execution docket the time of filing
the same. 

§ 500. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs,
referees, receivers and witnesses such compensation as is allowed for like serv
ices in other cases, to be taxed as costs in the case, and shall enforce, by order,
the collection thereof, from such party or parties as ought to pay the same.

§ 501. The clerk shall be allowed such fees, for
services under this head, as are allowed for similar services in other cases.

§ 502.
When an execution shall have been returned unsatisfied, the judgment cred
itor may file an affidavit of himself, his agent or attorney, in the office of the
clerk, setting forth that he has good reasons to, and does, believe that any per
son or corporation, to be named, has property of the judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him; and thereupon the clerk shall issue an order, requiring such
person or corporation to answer, on or before a day to be named in the order,
not less than ten nor more than twenty days from the date of issuing the same,
all interrogatories that may be propounded by the judgment creditor, concern
ing such indebtedness or property. 
§ 503. The judgment cred
itor, or his attorney, shall prepare interrogatories concerning such indebtedness
or property, a copy of which shall be served on the garnishee at the time of the
service of the order, or within three days thereafter. And the garnishee shall,
on or before the day required in the order, file with the clerk full and trne an
swers to all such interrogatories, verified by his affidavit. 

§ 504. All subsequent proceedings
against the garnishee shall be the same as in cases of attachment, as far as ap
plicable. 
§ 505. An execution against the
i >erson of the judgment debtor shall require the officer to arrest such debtor,
and commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the judgment, or is
discharged according to law. 

§ 506. An execution against the
person of the debtor may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of
money: First, When the judgment debtor has removed, or begun to remove,
any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent to prevent
the collection of money due on the judgment. Second, When he has property,
rights in action, evidences of debt, or some interest or stock in some corpora
tion or company, which he fraudulently conceals with the like intent. Third,
When he has assigned or disposed 6f all, or any part, of his property, or rights
in action, or has converted the same into money, with intent to defraud his
creditors, or with the intent to prevent such property from being taken in exe
cution. Fourth, When he fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred the
obligation, upon which the judgment was rendered. Fifth, When he was ar
rested, on an order, before judgment, and has not been discharged as an insolv
ent debtor, or the order has not been set aside, as improperly made. 

§ 507. An exe
cution against the person of the debtor, except as prescribed in section five
hundred and nine, can be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, upon being satisfied, by the affi
davit of the judgment creditor, or his attorney, and such other evidence as may
be presented, of the existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in section five hundred and six. 

§ 508. A justice of the peace may issue
an execution against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied of
the existence of one or more of the same particulars, by the like affidavit and
evidence. 
§ 509. In all cases in
which the judgment debtor was arrested before judgment, and has not been re
leased from imprisonment by an application for relief, as an insolvent debtor,
and where the order for such arrest has not been adjudged improper, an execu
tion against the person of such judgment debtor may issue of course. 
§ 510. Any person taken in exe
cution as aforesaid, shall be discharged by delivering or setting off to the officer
serving the same, if issued from a court of record, real or personal property, if
issued from a justice of the peace, personal property only, sufficient to satisfy
the judgment, and costs, for which the writ is issued. 
§ 511. Any person impris
oned under the provisions of this article shall be entitled to prison bounds, which
shall be co-extensive with the county, upon executing an undertaking, with one
or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the sheriff, to the effect that if the
debtor go beyond the prison bounds before being discharged according to law,
he will pay to the plaintifff the amount of the execution, with interest and costs;
but in case the person shall be out of jail, in prison bounds, the judgment cred
itor, upon whose judgment he was imprisoned, shall be entitled to execution
against the lands and tenements, goods and chattels of the debtor, and all other
remedies prescribed by this code for the collection of debts. 

§ 512. The death of a person un
der arrest in an execution does not satisfy the judgment; but an execution may
issue thereon as if no arrest had been made. 

§ 513. If a person, imprisoned under an
order of arrest made before judgment, is not charged in execution, within ten
days after judgment, he shall be discharged from such imprisonment 

§ 514. Incases of commitment under
this article, or upon arrest before or after judgment, in civil cases, the person
imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the act or to endure the impris
onment, may be discharged from imprisonment by the court or judge commit
ting him, or the court or judge thereof in which the judgment was or might be
rendered, on such terms as may be just. 

§ 515. If the execution be for the deliv
ery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the officer to
deliver the same, particularly describing the property, to the party entitled
thereto, and may, at the same time, require the officer to satisfy any costs or
damages, recovered in the same judgment, out of the goods and chattels of the
party against whom it was rendered; and, for the want of such goods and chat
tels, then out of the lands and tenements; and in this respect it shall be deemed
an execution against the property. 
§ 516. When the judgment is not for
the recovery of money or real property, the same may be enforced by attach
ment, by the court rendering judgment, upon motion made, or by a rule of the
court upon the defendant; but in either case, notice of the motion or a service
of a copy of the rule shall be made on the defendant, a reasonable time before
the order of attachment is made. 

§ 517. In special cases, not hereinbe
fore provided for, the execution shall conform to the judgment or order of the
court. When a judgment for any specified amount, and also for the sale of
specific real or personal property, shall have been rendered, and an amount,
sufficient to satisfy the amount of the debt or damages and costs, be not made
from the sale of property specified, an execution may issue for the balance, as
in other cases. 

§ 518. In all cases in which a judgment
shall be rendered by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the judg
ment shall be rendered may file a transcript of such judgment in the office of
the clerk of the district court of the county in which the judgment was rendered;
and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which the same shall be filed,
enter the case on the appearance docket, together with the amount of the
judgment and time of filing the transcript; and shall also enter the same on the
judgment docket, as in case of a judgment rendered in the court of which he is
clerk. 

§ 519. Such judgment shall be a lien upon the
real estate of the judgment debtor, from the day of filing the transcript, in the
same manner and to the same extent as if the judgment had been rendered in
the district court. 
§ 520. Execution may be issued thereon, to the sher
iff, by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the judgment had been
taken in court; and the sheriff shall execute and return the same, as other exe
cutions; and in case of sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and
approved by the court as in other cases. 
§ 521. The justice of the peace
shall certify on the transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. 
§ 522. If such judgment
becomes dormant, or if any of the parties thereto die before the same is satisfied,
it may be revived in the same manner as other judgments in the district court;
and a certified copy of the entry of such transcript may be filed in the office of
the clerk of the district court of any other county, and shall be a lien on the real
estate of the debtor in such county, from the date of the filing of such copy.

§ 523. The defendant, in an ac
tion for the recovery of money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve
upon the plaintifff or his attorney an offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be
taken against him for the sum specified therein. If the plaintifff accept the offer
and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days after
the offer* was served, the offer, and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance
was delivered within the time limited, may be filed by the plaintifff, or the de
fendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer, verified by affidavit;
and in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted in the journal, and
judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not
given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not
be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial. If the plaintifff fails to obtain
judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defend
ant's costs from the time of the offer. 

§ 524. The making of an offer, pursuant to the
provisions contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a cause for a contin
uance of an action or a postponement of the trial. 

§ 525. Parties to a question, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case contain
ing the facta upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of
the same to any court, which would have jurisdiction if an action had been
brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and the
proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall thereupon hear and determine the case, and render judgment as if an
action were pending. 

§ 526. The case, the submission,
and a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the record. 
§ 527. The judgment shall be with
costs, may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner as
if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise provided in the submis
sion. 

§ 528. After an action for the
recovery of money is brought, the defendant may offer in court to confess judg
ment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved in the
action; whereupon, if the plaintifff, being present, refuse to accept such confes
sion of judgment in full of his demands against the defendant in the action, or,
having had such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the
time of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the
trial do not recover more than was so offered to be confessed, such plaintifff
shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred after the offer. The offer
shall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or the amount
to which the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial. 

§ 529. A surety
may maintain an action against his principal, to compel him to discharge the
debt or liability for which the surety is bound, after the same has become due.

§ 530. A surety may maintain an action
against his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for which
he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the grounds exist, upon which.
by the provisions of this code, an order may be made for arrest and bail, or for
an attachment. 
§ 531. In such action the surety may ob
tain any of the provisional remedies mentioned in articles nine, eleven and
twelve, upon the grounds and in the manner therein described. 

§ 532. A motion is an application for an order,
addressed to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party to a suit or profeeding, or one interested therein, or affected thereby. 

§ 533. Several objects may
be included in the same motion, if they all grow ont of, or are connected with,
the action or proceeding in which it is made. 

§ 534. Where notice of a motion is required,
it must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the action or
proceeding in which it is made, the name of the court or judge before whom it
is to be made, the place where and the day on which it will be heard, the nature
and terms of the order or orders to be applied for; and if affidavits are to be
used on the hearing, the notice shall state that fact, and it shall be served a reason
able time before the hearing. 

§ 535. Notices of motions, mentioned in
this article, may be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, the party or his at
torney, or by any other person, and the return of any such officer or affidavit of
any such person shall be proof of service; the service shall be on the party, or
his attorney of record, and in case there is more than one party adverse to such
motion, service shall be made upon each party or his attorney. 

§ 536. The service of a notice shall be made
as is required by law for the service of a summons; and when served by an
officer, he shall be entitled to like fees. 
§ 537. Motions to strike pleading;
and papers from the files may be made with or without notice, as the court or
judge may direct. 
§ 538. Every direction of a court or judge made,
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an order. 
§ 539. Orders, made out of court, shaii
be forthwith entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same man
ner as orders made in term. 

§ 540. A judgment
rendered, or final order made, by a justice of the peace, or any other tribunal,
board or officer exercising judicial functions, and inferior in jurisdiction to the
district court, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the district court 
§ 541. A judgment rendered, or
final order made, by the probate court, may be reversed, vacated or modified by
the district court, for errors appearing on record. 
§ 542. The supreme court may reverse, vacate or modify a judgment of
the district court, for errors appearing on the record; and in the reversal of such
judgment or order, may reverse, vacate or modify any intermediate order in
volving the merits of the action, or any portion thereof. The supreme court
may also reverse, vacate or modify any of the following orders of the district
court, or a judge thereof: First, A final order. Second, An order that grants
or refuses a continuance; discharges, vacates or modifies a provisional remedy,
or grants, refuses, vacates or modifies an injunction; that grants or refuses a
new trial; or that confirms, or refuses to confirm, the report of a referee; or that
sustains or overrules a demurrer. Third, An order that involves the merits of
an action, or some part thereof. 
§ 542a. No appeal or proceed
ing in error shall be had or taken to the supreme court in any civil action unless
the amount or value in controversy, exclusive of costs, shall exceed one hun
dred dollars ($100), except in cases involving the tax or revenue laws, or the
tide to real estate, or an action for damages in which slander, libel, malicious
prosecution or false imprisonment is declared upon, or the constitution of this
state, or the constitution, laws or treaties of the United States, and when the
judge of the district or superior court trying the case involving less than one
hundred dollars ($100) shall certify to the supreme court that the case is one
belonging to the excepted classes. 
§ 543. An order affecting a substantial
right in an action, when such order, in effect, determines the action and prevents
a judgment, and an order affecting a substantial right, made in a special proceed
ing, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment, is a final order,
which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as provided in this article. 

§ 544. The pro
ceedings to obtain such reversal, vacation or modification, shall be by petition,
to be entitled petition in error, filed in a court having power to make such re
versal, vacation or modification, setting forth the errors complained of; and
thereupon a summons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in the
commencement of an action. A service on the attorney of record, in the orig
inal case, shall be sufficient. The summons shall notify the adverse party that
a petition in error has been filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be made
returnable on or before the first day of the term of the court, if issued in vaca
tion, and ten days before the commencement of the term. If issued in term
time, or within ten days of the first day of the term, it shall be returnable on a
day therein named. If the last publication or service of the summons shall be
made ten days before the end of the term, the case shall stand for hearing at
that term. 

§ 545. The sum
mons mentioned in the last section shall, upon the written praecipe of the plaint
iff in error or his attorney, be issued by the clerk of the court in which the
petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the defendant in error or
iiis attorney of record may be; and if the writ issue to a county other than that
in which the petition is filed, the sheriff thereof may return the same by mail to
the clerk, and shall be entitled to the same fees as if the same had been return
able to the district court of the county in which such officer resides. The de
fendant in error, or his attorney, may waive, in writing, the issuing or service
of the summons. 

§ 546. The plaintifff in error shall file with
his petition a transcript of the proceedings containing the final judgment or or
der sought to be reversed, vacated or modified, or the original case made as
hereinafter provided, or a copv thereof. 

§ 546a. That in all actions here
after instituted by petition in error in the supreme court the plaintifff in error
shall attach to and file with the petition in error the original case made, filed in
the court below, or a certified transcript of the record of said court; and in no
such action hereafter instituted in the supreme court shall any charge, fees or
costs be taxed or allowed for making any copy of any paper filed in said action,
except for one copy of said petition in error and case made, or transcript, when
such copy shall be ordered by the court for its use, and the same has not been
furnished by the plaintifff in error thirty days before the first day of the term at
which the case shall stand for hearing, and no costs or fees shall be taxed for
making a complete record in such case, except when the same shall be made by
request of a party to the suit and at his own costs. 

§ 547. A party desiring to have any judgment or
order of the district court, or a judge thereof, reversed by the supreme court,
'may make a case, containing a statement of so much of the proceedings and evi
dence, or other matters in the action, as may be necessary to present the errors
complained of to the supreme court. 

§ 548. The case so
made, or a copy thereof, shall, within three days after the judgment or order ib
entered, be served upon the opposite party or his attorney, who may within three
days thereafter suggest amendments thereto in writing, and present the same to
the party making the case, or his attorney. The case, and amendments shall be
submitted to the judge, who shall settle and sign the same, and cause it to be
attested by the clerk, and the seal of the court to be thereto attached. It shall
then be filed with the papers in the c.ise. A certified copy thereof shall be filed
with the petition in error. The exceptions stated in a case made shall have the
same effect as if they had been reduced to writing, allowed and signed by the
judge at the time they were taken. 

§ 549. The court or judge
may, upon good cause shown, extend the time for making a case and the time
within which the case may be served; and may also direct notice to be given of
the time when a case may be presented for settlement after the same has been
made and served, and amendments suggested, which when so made and pre
sented shall be settled, certified and signed by the judge who tried the cause;
and the case so settled and made shall thereupon be filed with the papers in the
cau-e; and in all causes heretofore or hereafter tried, when the term of office
of the trial judge shall have expired, or may hereafter expire before the time
fixed for making or settling and signing a case, it shall be his duty to certify,
sign or settle the case in all respects as if his term had not expired; and if no
amendments are suggested by the opposing party, as above provided, said case
shall be taken as true and containing a full record of the cause, and certified
accordingly. 

§ 550. Judges of probate courts,
justices of the peace, and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and the clerks
of every court of record, shall, upon request, and being paid the lawful fees
therefore, furnish an authenticated transcript of the proceedings containing the
judgment or final order in said court, or of a case made, to either of the parties
to the same, or to any person interested in procuring such transcript. 

§ 551. No proceeding to re
verse, vacate or modify any judgment or final order rendered in the probate
court or district court, except as provided in the next section, and the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay execution, unless the clerk of the
court in which the record of such judgment or final order shall be, shall take a
written undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintifff in error, to the
adverse party, with one or more sufficient sureties, as follows: First, When the
judgment or final order sought to be reversed directs the payment of money,
the written undertaking shall be in double the amount of the judgment or order,
to the effect that the plaintifff in error will pay the condemnation money and
costs, in case the judgment or final order shall be affirmed, in whole or in part.
Second, When it directs the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the
undertaking shall be in such a sum as may be prescribed by any court of record
in this state, or any judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintifff in error will
abide the judgment, if the same shall be affirmed, and pay the costs. Third,
When it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real property, the under
taking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any court of record in this
state, or any judge thereof, to the effect that during the possession of such prop
erty by the plaintifff in error, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any
waste thereon, and if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use
and occupation of the property, from the date of the undertaking until the deliv
ery of the possession, pursuant to the judgment, and all costs. When the judg
ment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency
arising from the sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of such
deficiency. Fourth, When it directs the assignment or delivery of documents,
they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the court in which the judg
ment was rendered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court, or the under
taking shall be in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the
judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be affirmed. 

§ 552. Instead of the undertak
ing prescribed in the second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or
other instrument may be executed and deposited with the clerk of the court in
which the judgment was rendered, or order made, to abide the judgment of the
appellate court. 

§ 553. No proceeding to
reverse, vacate or modify an order made in vacation shall operate to stay the
effect of such order until the party taking such proceeding 8hall execute to the
adverse party an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the clerk, that if the order be affirmed, in whole or in part, he will pay the
opposite party all damages that he may sustain by reason of such proceedings,
and all costs in the supreme court. 
§ 554. Before an undertaking shall
operate to stay execution of the judgment or order, a petition in error must be
filed in the appellate court, and the execution of the undertaking and the suffi
ciency of sureties must be approved by the court in which the judgment was
rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall indorse said
approval, signed by himself, upon the undertaking, and file the same in his office,
for the defendant in error. 

§ 555. In
an action arising on contract for the payment of money only, notwithstanding
the execution of the undertaking in the last section mentioned, to stay proceed
ings, if the defendant in error give adequate security to make restitution in case
the judgment is reversed or modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court
below, or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such
security must be an undertaking, executed to the plaintifff in error, by at least
two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be reversed or modified,
he will make full restitution to the plaintifff in error, of the money by him re
ceived under the judgment. 

§ 556. No pro
ceeding for reversing, vacating or modifying judgments or final orders 6hall be
commenced unless within one year after the rendition of the judgment or mak
ing of the final order complained of, or in case the person entitled to such pro
ceeding be an infant, a person of unsound mind, or imprisoned within one year
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability. 

§ 557. No proceeding to re
verse, vacate or modify any judgment or final order of a justice of the peace
shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the clerk of the district court, in which
such proceeding is commenced, shall take a written undertaking to the defend
ant in error, executed on the part of the plaintifff in error, by one or more sure
ties, to be approved by the clerk, to the effect: First, When the judgment directs
the payment of money, that the plaintifff will pay all costs which have accrued
or may accrue in such proceedings in error, together with the amount of any
judgment that may be rendered against the plaintifff in error, either upon and
after the affirmance thereof in the district court, or on the further trial of the
case in such court, after the judgment of the court below shall have been set
aside or reversed. Second, When the judgment directs the delivery of the pos
session of lands or tenements by the plaintifff in error, he will not commit or
suffer to be committed any waste thereon; and if the judgment be affirmed by
the court above, or if judgment be rendered against the plaintifff upon the fur
ther trial of the case, after the judgment of the court below, shall have been set
aside or reversed, that he will pay double the value of the use and occupation
of the property, from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the
propertv, pursuant to the judgment, and all damages and costs that may be
awarded against him. 
§ 558. Execution of the judgment
or final order of any judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this arti
cle, may be stayed on such terms as may be prescribed by the court or a judge
thereof, in which the proceedings in error are pending. 

§ 559. When a judgment or final order
shall be reversed, either in whole or in part, in the district court or supreme
court, the court reversing the same shall proceed to render such judgment as
the court below should have rendered, or remand the cause to the court below
for Buch judgment. The court reversing such judgment or final order shall not
issue execution in causes that are removed before Uiem on error, on which they
pronounce judgment as aforesaid, but shall send a special mandate to the court
below, as the case may require, to award execution thereupon; and such court,
to which such special mandate is sent, shall proceed in such cases in the same
manner as if such judgment or final order had been rendered therein. In cases
decided by the supreme court, when the facts are agreed to by the parties, or
found by the court below, or a referee, and when it does not appear, by excep
tion or otherwise, that euch findings are against the evidence in the case, the su
preme court shall send a mandate to the court below, directing it to render such
judgment in the premises as it should have rendered on the facts agreed to or
found in the case. 

§ 560. It shall be the duty of the judges of
the supreme court to prepare, and file with the papers in each case, full notes of
the opinion of the court upon the questions of law arising in the case, within
sixty days after the decision of the same; and the opinion so filed shall be
treated as a part of the record in the case, but no costs shall be charged there
for, except for copies thereof ordered by a party; and no mandate shall be sent
to the court below, until the opinion provided for by this section has been filed.

§ 561. A syllabus of the points of law decided in any
case in the supreme court shall be stated, in writing, by the judge delivering the
opinion of the court, and filed with the papers of the case, which shall be con
fined to points of law arising from the facts in the case, that have been deter
mined by the court; and the syllabus shall be submitted to the judges concurring
therein, for revisal before filing thereof, and it shall be filed with the papers,
without alteration, unless by consent of the judges concurring therein; and a
copy of such syllabus shall, in all cases, be sent to the court below, by the clerk
of the supreme court, with the mandate provided for by section five hundred
and fifty-nine of this act. 
§ 562. When a judgment or final order is re
versed, the plaintifff in error shall recover his costs, including the costs of the
transcript of the proceedings, or case made, filed with the petition in error; and
when reversed in part and affirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided be
tween the parties. 

§ 563. A mistake, neglect or omission of
the clerk shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been presented and
acted upon in the court in which the mistake, neglect or omission occurred.
§ 564. Writs of error and certiorari, to re
verse, vacate or modify judgments or final orders, in civil cases, are abolished;
but courts shall have the same power to compel complete and perfect transcripts
of the proceedings containing the judgment or final order sought to be reversed,
to be furnished, as they heretofore had under writs of error and certiorari.
§ 565. If the
judgment of a justice of the peace, taken on error, as herein provided, to the
district court, be affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render judg
ment against the plaintifff in error for the costs of suit, and award execution
therefore; and the court shall thereupon order the clerk to certify its decision in
the premises to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if
such proceedings in error had not been taken; or such court may award execu
tion to carry into effect the judgment of such justice, in the same manner as
if such judgment had been rendered in the district court. 
§ 566. When the proceedings of a justice
of the peace are taken in error to the district court, in the manner aforesaid,
and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set aside, the court shall
render judgment of reversal, and for the costs that have occurred up to that
time, in favor of the plaintifff in error, and award execution therefore; and the
same shall be retained by the court for trial and final judgment, as in cases of
appeal. 

§ 567.
That when an order, discharging or modifying an attachment or a temporary in
junction, shall be made in any case, and the party who obtained such attachment
or injunction shall except to such order, for the purpose of having the same re
viewed in the supreme court upon petition in error, the court or judge granting
said order shall, upon application of the proper party, fix the time, not exceed
ing thirty days from the discharge or modification of said attachment or injunc
tion, within which such petition in error shall be filed; and during such time the
execution of said order shall be suspended, and umtil the decision of the case
upon the petition in error, if the same shall be filed; and the undertaking, given
upon the allowance of the attachment, shall be and remain in force until the order
of discharge shall take effect. If such petition in error shall not be filed within
the time limited, the order of discharge shall become operative and be carried
into effect; and the certificate of the clerk of the supreme court that such peti
tion is or is not filed, shall be evidence thereof. 

§ 568.
The district court shall have power to vacate or modify its own judgments or
orders, at or after the term at which such judgment or order was made: First,
By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time and in the manner pre
scribed in section three hundred and ten. Second, By a new trial granted in
proceedings against defendants constructively summoned, as provided in section
seventy-two. Third, For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or irregu
larity in obtaining a judgment or order. Fourth, For fraud, practiced by the
successful party, in obtaining the judgment or order. Fifth, For erroneous
proceedings against an infant, or a person of unsound mind, where the condi
tion of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error in the pro
ceedings. Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in
the action. Seventh, For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the
party from prosecuting or defending. EigJdh, For errors in a judgment, shown
by an infant in twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in section
four hundred and thirteen. Ninth, For taking judgments upon warrants of
attorney for more than was due to the plaintifff, when the defendant was not sum
moned or otherwise legally notified of the time and place of taking such judg
ment. 

§ 569. The proceedings to
correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judg
ment or order, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party
or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate a judgment, because of its
rendition before the action, regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the
first three days of the succeeding term. 

§ 570. The pro
ceedings to vacate or modify the judgment or order, on the grounds mentioned
in subdivisions four, five, six, seven, eight and nine, of section five hundred and
sixty-eight, shall be by petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the judgment
or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action, if the
party applying was defendant. On such petition, a summons shall issue and be
served as in the commencement of an action. 

§ 573. The party seeking to
vacate or modify a judgment or order, may obtain an order suspending proceed
ings on the whole or part thereof; which order may be granted by the court,
or any judge thereof, upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit, or by ex
hibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order
vacated or modified. On the granting of any such order, the court, or judge,
may require the party obtaining any such order to enter into an undertaking to
the adverse party to pay all damages that may be caused by granting of the
same. 

§ 574. When the judgment was rendered before
the action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted, as provided in the
last section, although no valid defense to the action is shown; and the court
shall make such orders, concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment,
as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay he would have had if the
judgment had been rendered at the proper time. 
§ 575. Proceedings to va
cate or modify a judgment or order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions
four, five and seven, of section five hundred and sixty-eight, must be commenced
within two years after the judgment was rendered or order made, unless the
party entitled thereto be an infant, or person of unsound mind, and then within
two years after removal of 6nch disability. Proceedings for the causes men
tioned in subdivisions three and six of the same section, shall be within three
years, and in subdivision nine, within one year after the defendant has notice
of the judgment, A void judgment may be vacated at any time, on motion of
a party, or any person affected thereby. 

§ 576. The provisions of this article,
subsequent to section five hundred and sixty-seven, shall apply to all the courts
of record of the state, so far as the same may be applicable to the judgments or
final orders of such courts. 

§ 577. Executors, administrators and
guardians who have given bond in this state, with sureties, according to law, are
not required to give an undertaking on appeal or proceedings in error. 
§ 578. If the district court affirm a judgment on
petition in error, it shall also render judgment against the plaintifff in error, for
five per cent, upon the amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless
the court shall enter upon its minutes that there was reasonable grounds for the
proceedings in error. 
§ 579. A summons
in error shall not be issued in any case in which there is, upon the minutes of
the court, or among the files of the case, a waiver of error, by the party, or his
attorney, endeavoring to commence such proceedings, unless the court in which
the petition is to be filed, or a judge thereof, shall indorse on the same permis
sion to issue such summons. 
§ 580. Cases pending in ap
pellate courts, or writs of error, or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall
be conducted to final judgment as if it had not been adopted, and the liens of
judgments and decrees rendered when it takes effect shall be preserved. They
shall be enforced as provided in section seven hundred and twenty-seven [ twentysix];
but process already issued at such time shall be carried on and executed.

§ 581. In any civil action hereafter brought
in any district court of this state, before the clerk shall issue summons, there
shall be filed in his office, by or on behalf of the plaintifff or plaintifffs, a bond,
to be approved by the clerk, conditioned that the plaintifff or plaintifffs will pay
all costs that may accrue in said action in case he or they shall be adjudged to
pay them, or in case the same cannot be collected from the defendant or defend
ants if judgment be obtained against him, her, or them, that the plaintifff or
plaintifffs will pay the costs made by such plaintifff or plaintifffs: Provided, That
in any case where the plaintifff or plaintifffs having a just cause of action against
the defendant or defendants, by reason of his, her, or their poverty, is or are
unable to give such security for costs, on affidavit of the plaintifff or plaintifffs
made before the clerk that such is the fact, no bond shall be required: Provided
furt/ter, That in case non-resident plaintifff or plaintifffs, such plaintifff or plaintifffs
may deposit with the clerk of the district court such sum or sums as in the opin
ion of said clerk will be sufficient to cover all costs in case such non-resident
plaintifff or plaintifffs become liable to pay the same, and in the case of resident
plaintifff or plaintifffs, such plaintifff or plaintifffs may deposit the sum of fifteen
dollars, which sum shall be in lieu of all security for costs as herein and other
wise provided. 

§ 582. The affidavit provided for
in the preceding section shall be in the form following, and attached to the
petition, viz. : State of Kansas, County, , in the district court
of said county: I (or we) do solemnly swear that the cause of action set forth
in the petition hereto prefixed is just, and I (or we) do further swear that by
reason of my (or our) poverty, I (or we) am (or are) unable to give security for
costs. 
§ 583. Any person or persons willfully swear
ing falsely in making the affidavit aforesaid, shall on conviction be adjudged
guilty of perjury, and punished as the law prescribes. 
§ 583a. Section five hundred and eighty-one of chapter eighty,
General Statutes of eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, and all acts and parts of
acts inconsistent with this act, is [are] hereby repealed. 
§ 584. In an action
in which security for costs has been given, the defendant may, at any time
before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for
additional security on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court
be satisfied that the surety has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, the
action may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security be given by the plaintifff. 

§ 585. After final judg
ment has been rendered in an action in which security for costs has been given,
as required by this article, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other
person having a right to such costs, or any part thereof, after ten days' notice
of such motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant or his
legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or administra
tors, for the amount of costs adjudged against the plaintifff, or so much thereof
a3 may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such judgment as in other
cases, for the use and benefit of the persons entitled to such costs. 

§ 586. If any informer, under a penal statute,
to whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given, shall dismiss
his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he shall pay all costs accruing on
such suit or prosecution, unless he be an officer, whose duty it is to commence
the same. 

§ 587. Where defendants
disclaim having any title or interest in land or other property, the subject matter
of the action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special reasons the court
decide otherwise. 

§ 588. Unless otherwise
provided by Btatute, the costs of motions, continuances, amendments and the
like, shall be taxed and paid as the court, in its discretion, may direct. 

§ 589. Where it is not otherwise pro
vided by this and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff,
upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recovery of money only, or for
the recovery of specific, real or personal property. 

§ 590. Costs shall be allowed of course
to any defendant, upon a judgment in his favor, in the actions mentioned in the
last section. 

§ 591. In other actions, the court may award
and tax costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the same or ad
verse sides, as in its discretion it may think right and equitable. 

§ 592. Where several actions are
brought on one bill of exchange, promissory note or other obligation, or instru
ment in writing, against several parties who might have been joined as defend
ants in the same action, as allowed by section thirty-nine, no costs shall be
recovered by the plaintifff in more than one of such actions, if the parties pro
ceeded against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous
action, openly within the state. 

§ 593. When a summons is issued
to another county than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it may
be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to the same fees as if the
summons had issued in the county of which he is sheriff. 

§ 593a. The several clerks of the district
court shall tax the costs in each case, and insert the same in their respective
judgments, subject to retaxation by the court, on motion of any person interested.
§ 5935. Said original section fifteen, and sections six
teen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen and twenty of the act, to which this ia
amendatory, are hereby repealed. 

§ 594. An action may be
brought by any person in possession, by himself or tenant, of real property,
against any person who claims an estate, or interest therein, adverse to him, for
the purpose of determining such adverse estate or interest. 

§ 595. In
an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be sufficient if the plaintifff
state, in his petition, that he has a legal or equitable estate therein, and is entitled to the possession thereof, describing the same, as required by section one
hundred and twenty-seven, and that the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of
the possession. It shall not be necessary to state how the plaintifff' s estate or
ownership is derived. 

§ 596. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the de
fendant, in his answer, deny, generally, the title alleged in the petition, or that
he withholds the possession, as the case may be; but if he deny the title of the
plaintifff, possession, by the defendant, shall be taken as admitted. Where he
does not defend for the whole premises, the answer shall describe the particular part for which defense is made. 

§ 597. In an action, by a tenant in common of real
property, against a co-tenant, the plaintifff must, in addition to what is required
in section five hundred and ninety-five, state, in his petition, that the defendant
either denied the plaintifff's right, or did some act amounting to such denial.

§ 598. In an action for the recovery of real prop
erty, where the plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was com
menced, but it appears that his right has terminated during the pendency of
the action, the verdict and judgment must be according to the fact, and the
plaintifff may recover for withholding the property. 

§ 599. In an action for the recovery of real
property, the party against whom judgment is rendered may, at any time during
the term at which the judgment is rendered, demand another trial, by notice on
the journal, and thereupon the judgment shall be vacated, and the action shall
stand for trial at the next term. 

§ 000. No further trial can be had in such
action, unless, for good cause shown, a new trial be granted, or the judgment
be reversed, as in other actions. 

§ 601. In all cases any occupying
claimant being in quiet possession of any lands or tenements for which such per
son can show a plain and connected title in law or equity, derived from the records
of some public office, or being in quiet possession of and holding the same by
<leed, devise, descent, contract, bond, or agreement from and under any person
claiming title as aforesaid, derived from the records of some public office, or by
deed duly authenticated and recorded, or being in quiet possession of, and hold
ing the same under sale on execution or order of sale against any person claim
ing title as aforesaid, derived from the records of some public office, or by deed,
duly authenticated and recorded; or being in possession of and holding any
land under any sale for taxes authorized by the laws of this state, or the laws
of the territory of Kansas; or any person or persons who have made a bona fide
settlement and improvement which he, she or they still occupy upon any of the
Indian lands lying in this state, or any lands held in trust for the benefit of any
Indian tribe at the date of such settlement, or which may have heretofore been
Indian lands, and which were vacant and unoccupied at the date of such settle
ment, and where the records of the county show no title or claim of any person
or persons to said lands at the time of such settlement; or any person in quiet
possession of any land claiming title thereto, and holding the same under a sale
and conveyance made by executors, administrators, or guardians, or by any
other person or persons in pursuance of any order of court or decree in chancery
where lands are or have been directed to be sold and the purchasers thereof
have obtained title to and possession of the same without any fraud or collusion
on his, her or their part, shall not be evicted or thrown out of possession by any
person or persons who shall set up and prove an adverse and better title to said
lands until said occupying claimant his, her or their heirs, shall be paid the full
value of all lasting and valuable improvements made on said lands by such oc
cupying claimant, or by the person or persons under whom he, she or they may
hold the same previous to receiving actual notice by the commencement of suit
on such adverse claim by which eviction may be effected. 

§ 602. The title by which the successful claim
ant succeeds against the occupying claimant, in all cases of lands sold for taxes,
by virtue of any of the laws of this state or of the territory of Kansas, shall be
considered an adverse and better title, under the provisions of this article,
whether it be the title under which the taxes were due, and for which said land
was sold, or any other title or claim whatever; and the occupying claimant
holding possession of land sold for taxes, as aforesaid, having the deed of a
collector of taxes or county clerk for such sale for taxes, or a certificate of sale
of said land from a collector of taxes or a county treasurer, or shall claim under
the person or persons who hold such deed or certificate, or any other title or
claim whatever, shall be considered as having sufficient title to said land to
demand the value of improvements under the provisions of this article. 

§ 603. The court rendering judgment in any
case provided for by this act [article], against the occupying claimant, shall, at
the request of either party, cause a journal entry thereof to be made; and the
sheriff and clerk of the court, when thereafter required by either party, shall
meet and draw from the box a jury of twelve men, of the jurymen returned to
serve as such for the proper county, in the same manner as the sheriff and
county clerk are required by law to draw a jury in other cases; and immediately
thereupon, the clerk shall issue an order to the sheriff, under the seal of the
court, setting forth the name of the jury, and the duty to be performed under
this article. 

§ 604. The jury drawn and named in said order
shall immediately, on being notified by the sheriff, proceed to view the premises
in question, and then and there, on oath or affirmation, to be administered by
any competent authority, assess the value of all lasting and valuable improve
ments made, as aforesaid, on the lands in question, previous to the party receiv
ing actual notice, as aforesaid, of such adverse claim; and shall also assess the
damages, if any, which said land may have sustained by waste, together with the
net annual value of the rents and profits which the occupying claimant may
have received from the same, after having received notice of the plaintifff's title, by service of a summons, and deduct the amount thereof from the esti
mated value of such lasting and valuable improvements; and said jury shall
also assess the value of the land in question, at the time of rendering judg
ment as aforesaid, without the improvements made thereon, or damages sus
tained by waste, as aforesaid. 

§ 605. In case any one or more of the jury named
in said order shall be absent from the county, of kin to either party, or, from
any other cause, disqualified or unable to serve upon such jury, the sheriff shall
have power to summon talesmen, as in other cases, who shall be qualified and
serve on such jury in the same manner as if originally drawn and named in
said order. 

§ 606. The jury shall sign and seal
their respective assessments and valuations aforesaid, and deposit the same with
the clerk of the court by whom they were appointed, before the first day of the
next term of said court after said order is made; and if either party shall think
himself or herself aggrieved by any such assessment or valuation aforesaid, he
or she may apply to the court, at the term to which the proceedings are returned,
and said court may, upon good cause shown, set aside such assessment or val
uation, and order a new valuation, and appoint another jury, as hereinbefore
provided, who shall proceed in the same manner as hereinbefore directed.

§ 607. If the jurors shall report a
sum in favor of the plaintifff or plaintifffs in said action, for the recovery of real
property on the assessment and valuation of the valuable and lasting improve
merits, and the assessment of damages for waste, and the net annual value of
th*. rents and profits, the court shall render a judgment therefore without plead
ings, and issue execution thereon as in other cases; or if no excess be reported
in favor of said plaintifff or plaintifffs, then, and in either case, the said plaintifff
or plaintifffs shall be thereby barred from having or maintaining any action for
mesne profits. 
§ 608. That if the jurors empaneled
under the provisions of such act shall report a sum under the provisions of the
same in favor of the occupying claimant or claimants, or the assessment of the
valuation of the valuable and lasting improvements, deducting the damages to
said land, as is provided in said act the court shall render judgment in favor of
the said occupying claimant or claimants for the sum or sums so assessed by the
said jurors as aforesaid; and no writ or process for the eviction of the said claim
ant or claimants shall be issued until the said judgment shall be paid. 

§ 609. If the successful claimant, his heirs,
or the guardian of such heirs, they being minors, shall elect to pay, and do pay
to, the occupying claimant, the sum so reported in his favor by the jurors, within
such reasonable time as the court may have allowed for the payment thereof,
then a writ of possession shall issue in favor of said successful claimant, his
heirs, or the guardians of such heirs. 

§ 610. If the successful claimant,
his heirs, or the guardians of said heirs, they being minors, shall elect to receive
the value without improvements so as aforesaid assessed, to be paid by the ociupying
claimant within such reasonable time as the court may allow, and shall
tender a general warranty deed of the land in question, conveying such adverse
or better title within said time allowed by the court for the payment of the
money in this section mentioned, and the occupying claimant shall refuse or
neglect to pay said money (the value of the land without the improvements) to
the successful claimant, his heirs or their guardians, within the time limited as
aforesaid, then a writ of possession shall be issued in favor of said successful
claimant, his heirs or their guardians. 
§ 611. The occupying
claimant or his heirs shall in no case be evicted from the possession of such land,
unless, as is provided in the two preceding sections, where an application is
made for the value of improvements under this law; and in all cases, where the
occupying claimant or claimants, or his or their heirs, shall have paid into court
the value of the lands in question, without improvements, within the time al
lowed by the court (when an election has been made by the successful claimant
or claimants, his or their heirs or guardians as aforesaid, to surrender any tract
of land under the provisions of this act), such occupant or his heirs may, at any
time after such payment shall have been made, file his, her or their petition in
the court where such judgment of eviction was obtained, and obtain a decree
for the title of such land, if the same has not been previously conveyed to such
occupant as aforesaid. 

§ 612. The plaintifff shall be entitled to an exe"
ration for the possession of his property, in accordance with the provisions of
this article, but not otherwise. 
§ 613. Whenever any land, sold
by an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff or commissioner of court, is after
wards recovered in the proper action by any person originally liable, or in whose
hands the land would be liable to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for
whose benefit the land was sold, or any one claiming under such person, the
plaintifff shall not be entitled to the possession of the land until he has refunded
the purchase money, with interest, deducting therefrom the value of the use,
rents and profits, and injury done by waste and cultivation, to be assessed under
the provisions of this article. 
§ 614. When the object of the action is to effect a par
tition of real property, the petition must describe the property and the respect
ive interests of the owners thereof, if known. 

§ 615. If the number of shares
or interests is known, but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent or doubtful, these
facts must be set forth in the petition with reasonable certainty. 
§ 616. Creditors having a specific or general lien upon
all or any portion of the property, may be made parties. 

§ 617. The answers of the defendants must state, among
other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests. They may also
deny the interests of any of the plaintifffs, or any of the defendants. 
§ 618. After the interests of all the parties
shall have been ascertained, the court shall make an order specifying the inter
ests of the respective parties, and directing partition to be made accordingly.
§ 619. Upon making such order, the court
shall appoint three commissioners to make partition into the requisite number
of shares. 
§ 620. For good and sufficient reasons appearing
to the court, the commissioners may be directed to allot particular portions to
any one of the parties. 
§ 621. Before entering upon their duties, such commission
ers shall take and subscribe an oath that they will perform their duties faithfully
and impartially, to the best of their ability. 

§ 622. The commissioners shall make partition of the
property among the parties according to their respective interests, if such par
tition can be made without manifest injury. But if such partition cannot be
made, the commissioners shall make a valuation and appraisement of the prop
erty They shall make a report of their proceedings to the court, forthwith.

§ 623. Any party may file exceptions to
the report of the commissioners, and the court may, for good cause, set aside
snch report, and appoint other commissioners, or refer the matter back to the
same commissioners. 
§ 624. If partition be made by the commissioners,
and no exceptions are filed to their report, the court shall render judgment that
snch partition be and remain firm and effectual forever. 

§ 625. If partition cannot
be made, and the property shall have been valued and appraised, any one or
more of the parties may elect to take the same at the appraisement, and the court
may direct the sheriff to make a deed to the party or parties so electing, on pay
ment to the other parties of their proportion of the appraised value. 

§ 626. If none of the parties elect to take the
property at the valuation, or if several of the parties elect to take the same at
the valuation, in opposition to each other, the court shall make an order direct
ing the sheriff of the county to sell the same, in the same manner as in sales of
real estate on execution; but no sale shall be made at less than two-thirds of the
valuation placed upon the property by the commissioners. 

§ 627. The sheriff shall make return
of his proceedings to the court, and if the sale made by him shall be approved
by the court, the sheriff shall execute a deed to the purchaser, upon the payment
of the purchase money, or securing the same to be paid, in such manner as the
court shall direct 

§ 628. The court making partition shall tax the
costs, attorneys' fees and expenses which may accrue in the action, and appor
tion the same among the parties, according to their respective interests, and may
award execution therefore, as in other cases. 

§ 629. The court shall have full power to make
any order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this article, that may be neces
sary to make a just and equitable partition between the parties, and to secure
their respective interests. 

§ 630. Any person who shall, under contract with the
owner of any tract or piece of land, or with the trustee, agent, husband or wife
of such owner, furnish material for the erection, alteration or repair of any build
ing, improvement, or structure thereon; or who shall furnish or perform labor in
putting up of any fixtures or machinery in, or attachment to, any such building,
structure, or improvement; or who shall plant any trees, vines, plants or hedge
in or upon said land; or who shall build, alter, or repair, or furnish labor or ma
terial for building, altering or repairing any fence or footwalk in or upon said
land, or any sidewalk in any street abutting said land, shall have a lien upon the
whole of said piece or tract of land, the building and appurtenances, in the man
ner herein provided, for the amount due to him for such labor, material, fixtures,
or machinery. Such liens shall be preferred to all other liens or encumbrances
which may attach to or upon such land, buildings, or improvements, or either of
them, subsequent to the commencement of such building, the furnishing or put
ting up of such fixtures or machinery, the planting of such trees, vines, plants,
or hedges, the building of such fence, footwalks, or sidewalks, or the making of
any such repairs or improvements.
§ 631. Any person claiming a lien as aforesaid shall
file in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county in which the land
is situated a statement setting forth the amount claimed and the items thereof
as nearly as practicable, the name of the owner, the name of the contractor, the
name of the claimant, and a description of the property subject to the lien, veri
fied by affidavit: Provided, That if any promissory note, bearing a lawful rate
of interest, shall have been taken for any such labor or material, it shall not be
necessary to file an itemized statement of labor or material furnished, hut in lieu
thereof it shall be sufficient to file a copy of such note, with a sworn statement
tli at said note, or any part thereof, was given for such labor or material used in
the construction of such building or improvement; and if the whole of such note
shall have been given for such labor or material, the lien shall be for the whole
of the principal and interest of said note; but if a part of said note only shall
have been given for such labor or material, then the lien shall be for a corre
sponding amount only, with interest at the rate specified in said note. Such
statement shall be filed within four months after the date upon which material
was last furnished or labor last performed under contract as aforesaid; and if the
claim be for the planting of any trees, vines, plants, or hedge, such statement
shall be filed within four months from such planting. Immediately upon tl
receipt of such statement the clerk of the district court shall enter a record of
the same in a book kept for that purpose, to be called the mechanics' lien
docket, which docket shall be ruled off into separate cohimns, with headings as
follows: "When filed," "Name of owner," "Name of claimant," "Amount
claimed," "Description of property," and "Remarks;" and the clerk shall
make the proper entry in each column. 
§ 632. Any person who shall furnish any such
material or perform such labor under a sub-contract witfi the contractor, or as
an artisan or day laborer in the employ of such contractor, may obtain a hen
upon such land from the same time, in the same manner, and to the same ex
tent as the original contractor, for the amount due him for such material and
labor; and any artisan or day laborer in the employ of such sub-contractor may
obtain a lien upon such land from the same time, in the same manner, and to
the same extent as the sub-contractor, for the amount due him for such material
and labor, by filing with the clerk of the district court of the county in which
the land is situated within sixty days after the date upon which material was
last furnished or labor last performed under such sub-contract a statement, ver
ified by affidavit, setting forth the amount due from the contractor to the claim
ant, and the items thereof as nearly as practicable, the name of the owner, the
name of the contractor, the name of the claimant, and a description of the prop
erty upon which & lien is claimed; and by serving a notice in writing of the
tiling of such lien upon the owner of the land: Provided, That if with due dil
igence the owner cannot be found in the county where the land is situated, the
claimant, after filing an affidavit setting forth such facts, may serve a copy of
such statement upon the occupant of the land, or if the land be unoccupied, may
post such copy in a conspicuous place upon the land or any building thereon.
Immediately upon the filing of such statement the clerk of said court shall enter
a record of the same in the docket provided for in section two of this act, and
in the manner therein specified: Provided, That the owner of any land affected
by such lien shall not thereby become liable to any claimant for any greater
amount than he contracted to pay the original contractor; but the risk of all
payments made to the original contractor shall be upon such owner until the
expiration of the sixty days hereinbefore specified ; and no owner shall be liable
to an action by 6uch contractor until the expiration of said sixty days, and such
owner may pay such sub-contractor the amount due him from such contractor
for such labor and material, and the amount so paid shall be held and deemed
a payment of said amount to the original contractor. The district clerk shall
be entitled to a fee of twenty-five cents in each case for entering the statements
provided for in this act, and the costs of filing and entering such statement
shall be recovered as part of the costs of enforcing such hens. 
§ 633. All claims for liens and rights of action to
recover therefore under this act shall be assignable so as to vest in the assignee
all rights and remedies herein given, subject to all defenses thereto that might
be made if such assignment had not been made. Where a statement has been
filed and recorded as herein provided, such assignment may be made by an en
try, on the same page of the mechanics' lien docket containing the record of
the lien, signed by the claimant or his lawful representative, and attested by the
clerk; or such assignment may be made by a separate instrument in writing.

§ 634. Any lien provided for by this act may be en
forced by civil action in the district court of the county in which the land is situ
ated, and such action shall be brought within one year from the time of the filing
of said lien with the clerk of said court: Provided, That where a promissory note
is given such action may be brought at any time within one year from the matnrity
of said note. The practice, pleading and proceedings in such action shall
conform to the rules prescribed by the code of civil procedure as far as the same
may be applicable; and in case of action brought, any lien statement may be
amended by leave of court in furtherance of justice as pleadings may be in any
matter, except as to the amount claimed. 
§ 635. In such actions all persons whose liens are filed as
herein provided, and other encumbrancers, shall be made parties, and issues
shall be made and trials had as in other cases. Where such action is brought
by a sub-contractor, or other person not the original contractor, such original
contractor shall be made a party defendant, and shall at his own expense defend
against the claim of every sub-contractor, or other person claiming a lien under
this act, and if he fails to make such defense the owner may make the same at
the expense of such contractor; and until all such claims, costs and expenses
are finally adjudicated, and defeated or satisfied, the owner shall be entitled to
retain from the contractor the amount thereof, and such costs and expenses as
he may be required to pay: Provided, That if the sheriff of the county in which
such action is pending shall make return that he is unable to find such original
contractor, the court may proceed to adjudicate the hens upon the land and

render judgment to enforce the same with costs. 
§ 636. If several actions brought to enforce the
Hens herein provided for are pending at the time, the court may order them to
be consolidated; and in any action brought to enforce a lien under this act, if
the building or other improvement is still in course of construction, the court,
on application of any party engaged in furnishing labor or materials for such
building or improvement, may stay the trial thereof for a reasonable time to
permit the filing of a hen statement by such party under the provisions of this
act. 
§ 637. In all cases where judgments may be ren
dered in favor of any person or persons to enforce a hen under the provisions
of this act, the real estate or other property shall be ordered to be sold as in
other cases of sales of real estate, such sale to be without prejudice to the rights
of any prior encumbrancers, owner or other person not a party to the action.

§ 638. In any action brought by any artisan or
day laborer to enforce any hen under this act, where judgment be rendered for
plaintifff, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover a reasonable attorney's fee to
be fixed by the court, which shall be taxed as costs in the action. 
§ 638<z. If any lien or liens shall be filed
under the provisions of this act and no action to foreclose any of said hens shall
have been commenced, the owner of the land may file his petition in the dis
trict court of the county in which said land is situated, making said lien claim
ants defendants therein, and praying for an adjudication of said lien or liens so
claimed, and if any such lien claimant shall fail to establish his lien, the court
may tax against said claimant the whole, or such portion of the costs of such
action as may be just: Provided, That if no action to foreclose or adjudicate
any hen filed under the provisions of this act shall be instituted within one year
from the filing of said lien, the clerk of the district court shall enter under the
head of "Remarks,1' in the mechanics' lien docket hereinbefore named, that
said lien is canceled by limitation of law. 
§ 638i. If the proceeds of the sale be insufficient to
pay all the claimants, then the court shall order them to be paid in proportion
to the amount due each. 
§ 638c. The erecting or constructing of a light
ning rod or rods on any buildings shall not be considered such an improvement,
fixture, or attachment, as to come under the provision of section one (1) of this
act. 
§ 638c?. The contractor or owner mentioned in section 1 of
this act may execute a bond to the state of Kansas for the use of all persons in
whose favor liens might accrue by virtue of this act, conditioned for the payment
of all claims which might be the basis of liens; which bond shall be in a sum
not less than the contract price, and with good and sufficient sureties, whose
qualifications shall be verified in accordance with section 723 of the code of civil
procedure, such surety as shall be approved by the clerk of the district court in
the county in which the property is situated, and may file such bond in the of
fice of said clerk; and when such bond is so approved and filed no lien shall
attach under this act, and if when such bond is filed hens have already been
filed, such lien shall be discharged. Suits may be brought on said bond by any
person interested. 


§ 638*. That whenever
any public officer shall, under the laws of the state, enter into contract in any
sum exceeding one hundred dollars, with any person or persons, for purpose of
making any public improvements, or constructing any public building or mak
ing repairs on the same, such officer shall take from the party contracted with a
bond with good and sufficient sureties to the state of Kansas, in a sum not less
than the sum total in the contract, conditioned that such contractor or contract
ors shall pay all indebtedness incurred for labor or material furnished in the
construction of said public building or in making said public improvements.

§ 638/ That such bond shall be filed in the office of the
clerk of the district court of the county in which such public improvement is
to be made or such public building is to be erected; and any person to whom
there is due any sum for labor or material furnished, as stated in section one of
this act, or his assigns, may bring an action on said bond for the recovery of
said indebtedness: Provided, That no action shall be brought on said bond after
six months from the completion of said public improvements or public build
ings. 

§ 639. The district court may grant a
divorce for any of the following causes: First, When either of the parties had
a former husband or wife living at the time of the subsequent marriage. Second,
Abandonment for one year. Third, Adultery. Fourth, Impotency. Fifth,
When the wife, at the time of the marriage, was pregnant by another than her
husband. Sixth, Extreme cruelty. Seventh, Fraudulent contract. Eighth,
Habitual drunkenness. Ninth, Gross neglect of duty. Tenth, The conviction
of a felony, and imprisonment in the penitentiary therefore, subsequent to the
marriage. 

§ 610. The plaintifff in an action for divorce must
have been an actual resident, iu good faith, of the state, for one year next preced
ing the filing of the petition, and a resident of the county in which the action
is brought at the time the petition is filed. 

§ 641. The petition must be verified as
true, by the affidavit of the plaintifff. A summons may issue thereon, and shall be
served, or publication made, as in other cases. When service by publication is
proper, a copy of the petition, with a copy of the publication notice attached
thereto, shall, within three days after the first publication is made, be inclosed
in an envelope addressed to the defendant, at his or her place of residence,
postage paid, and deposited in the nearest post office, unless the plaintifff shall
make aud file an affidavit that such residence is unknown to the plaintifff, and
cannot be ascertained by any means within the control of the plaintifff. 

§ 642. The defendant, in his or her answer, may allege
a cause for a divorce against the plaintifff, and may have the same relief there
upon as he or she vould be entitled to for a like cause if he or she were plaintifff.
When new matter is set up in the answer, it shall be verified as to such new
matter by the affidavit of the defendant. 
§ 643. When the parties appear to be in equal wrong,
the court may in its discretion refuse to grant a divorce, and in any such case
or in any other case where a divorce is refused, the court may for good cause
shown make such order as may be proper for the custody, maintenance and
education of the children, and for the control and equitable division and dis
position of the property of the parties, or of either of them, as may be proper,
equitable and just, having due regard to the time and manner of acquiring such
property, whether the title thereto be in either or both of said parties. 

§ 644. After a petition has been filed in an action
for divorce and alimony, or for alimony alone, fhe court, or a judge thereof in
vacation, may make and enforce by attachment such order to restrain the dispo
sition of the property of the parties or of either of them, and for the use, man
agement and control thereof, or for the control of the children and support of
the wife during the pendency of the action, as may be right and proper; and
may also make such order relative to the expenses of the suit as will insure to
the wife an efficient* preparation of her case; and on granting a divorce in fa
vor of the wife or refusing one on the application of the husband, the court may
require the husband to pay such reasonable expenses of the wife in the prose
cution or defense of the action as may be just and proper, considering the re
spective parties and the means and property of each. 

§ 645. When a divorce is granted, the court shall
make provision for guardianship, custody, support and education of the minor
•children of the marriage, and may modify or change any order in this respect,
henever circumstances render such change proper. 

§ 646. When a divorce shall be granted by reason of
the fault or aggression of the husband, the wife shall be restored to her maiden
name if she so desires, and also to all the property, lands, tenements, heredita
ments owned by her before her marriage or acquired by her in her own right
after such marriage, and not previously disposed of, and shall be allowed such
alimony out of the husband' s real and personal property as the court shall think
reasonable, having due regard to the property which came to him by marriage
and the value of his real and personal estate at the time of said divorce; which
alimony may be allowed to her in real or personal property, or both, or by de
creeing to her such sum of money, payable either in gross or in installments, as
the court may deem just and equitable. If the divorce shall be granted by
reason of the fault or aggression of the wife, the court shall order restoration to
her of the whole of her property, lands, tenements and hereditaments owned by
her before, or by her separately acquired after such marriage, and not previously
disposed of, and also such share of her husband' s real and personal property,
or both, as to the court may appear just and reasonable; and she shall be barred
of all right in all the remaining lands of which her husband may at any time
have been seized. And as to such property, whether real or personal, as shall
have been acquired by the parties jointly during their marriage, whether the title thereto be in either or both of said parties, the court shall make such divis
ion between the parties respectively as may appear just and reasonable, by a di
vision of the property in kind, or by setting the same apart to one of the parties,
and requiring the other thereof to pay such sum as may be just and proper to
effect a fair and just division thereof. But in case of a finding by the court,
that such divorce should be granted on account of the fault or aggression of the
wife, the court may in its discretion set apart such a portion of the wife' s sepa
rate estate as may seem proper for the support of the children, issue of the mar
riage. 

§ 647. A divorce granted at the instance
of one party shall operate as a dissolution of the marriage contract as to both,
and shall be a bar to any claim of the party for whose fault it was granted in
or to the property of the other, except in cases where actual fraud shall have
been committed by or on behalf of the successful party. Every judgment of
divorcement granted by a district court shall be final and conclusive, unless ap
pealed from within the time and in the manner herein provided. A party de
siring to appeal from a judgment granting a divorce, must within ten days after
such judgment is rendered file a written notice in the office of the clerk of such
court, duly entitled in such action, stating that it is the intention of such party
to appeal from such judgment; and unless such notice be filed no appeal shall
be had or taken in such cause; if notice be filed as aforesaid, the party filing
the same may commence proceedings in error for the reversal or modification
of such judgment at any time within four months from the date of the decree
appealed from, and not thereafter; but whether a notice be filed as herein pro
vided, or not, or whether proceedings in error be commenced as herein provided,
or not, it shall be unlawful for either party to such divorce suit to marry any
other person within six months from the date of the decree of divorcement; and
if notice be filed and proceedings in error be commenced as hereinbefore pro
vided, then it shall be unlawful for either party to such cause to marry any other
person until the expiration of thirty days from the day on which final judgment
shall be rendered by the appellate court on such appeal; and every person mar
rying contrary to the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of bigamy,
and such marriage be absolutely void. 

§ 647a. Every person convicted of bigamy as such of
fense as defined in the foregoing section shall be punished by imprisonment in
the penitentiary for a term of not less than one year nor more than three years.

§ 647S. Every decree of divorce
shall recite the day and date when the judgment was rendered in the cause, and
that the decree does not become absolute and take effect until the expiration of
six months from said time. 
§ 648. When either of the parties to a marriage
shall be incapable, from want of age or understanding, of contracting sucli mar
riage, the same may be declared void by the district court, in an action brought
by the incapable party; but the children of such marriage, begotten before the
same is annulled, shall be legitimate. Cohabitation after such incapacity ceases,
shall be a sufficient defense to any such action. 

§ 649. The wife may obtain alimony from the husband
without a divorce, in an action brought for that purpose in the district court, for
any of the causes for which a divorce may be granted. The husband may make
the same defense to such action as he might to an action for divorce, and may,
for sufficient cause, obtain a divorce from the wife in such action. 

§ 650. Upon the trial of an action for a divorce, or
for alimony, the court may admit proof of the admissions of the parties to be
received in evidence, carefully excluding 6uch as shall appear to have been ob
tained by connivance, fraud, coercion or other improper means. Proof of co
abitation, and reputation of the marriage of the parties, may be received as>
evidence of the marriage. But no divorce shall be granted without proof. 
§ 651. A wife who resides in this
state at the time of applying for a divorce, shall be deemed a resident of this
state, though her husband resides elsewhere. 
§ 651a. In any action for a divorce here
after tried, the parties thereto, or either of them, shall be competent to testify
in like manner, and respecting any fact necessary or proper to be proven, as
parties to other civil actions are allowed to testify. 

§ 652. The writ of quo warranto, and proceed
ings by information in the nature of quo warranto, are abolished, and the
remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms may be had by civil action. 

§ 653. Such action may be brought in the su
preme court or in the district court, in the following cases:
First, When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or ex
ercise any public office, or shall claim any franchise within this state, or any
office in any corporation created by authority of this state;
Second, Whenever any public officer shall have done or suffered any act
which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office;
Third, When any association or number of persons shall act within this.
state as a corporation without being legally incorporated;
Fourth, When any corporation do or admit acts which amount to a sur
render or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when
any corporation abuses its power or exercises powers not conferred by law;
Fifth, Where any corporation claims, by virtue of a congressional grant,
any of the public lands or Indian lands to which the Indian title or right of oc
cupancy has been extinguished;
Sixth, For any other cause for which a remedy might have been heretofore
obtained by writ of quo warranto, or information in the nature of quo warranto.

§ 654. When the action is brought by the at
torney general or the county attorney of any county of his own motion, or when
directed to do 60 by competent authority, it shall be prosecuted in the name of
the state, but where the action is brought by a person claiming an interest in the
office, franchise or corporation, or claiming any interest adverse to the franchise
gift or grant, which is the subject of the action, it shall be prosecuted in the
name and under the direction, and at the expense of such persons; whenever
the action is brought against a person for usurping an office by the attorney gen
eral or the county attorney, he shall set forth in the petition the name of the
person rightfully entitled to the office, and his right or title thereto; when the
action in such case is brought by the person claiming title, he may claim and re
cover any damage he may have sustained. 

§ 655. In every case contesting
the right to an office, judgment shall be rendered according to the rights of the
parties, and for the damages the plaintifff or person entitled may have sustained,
if any, to the time of the judgment. 

§ 656. If judgment be rendered in
favor of the plaintifff or person entitled, he shall proceed to exercise the func
tions of the office, after he has been qualified as required by law; and the court
shall order the defendant to deliver over all the books and papers in his custody
or within his power, belonging to the office from which he shall have been
ousted. 

§ 657. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect
to deliver over the books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court, or judge
thereof, shall enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment 

§ 658. When judgment is rendered in favor
of the plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the action, have a
separate action for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment.
The court may give judgment of ouster against the defendant, and exclude him
from the office, franchise or corporate rights; and in cases of corporations, that
the same shall be dissolved. 

§ 659. If judgment be rendered against any corporation,
or against any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs
to be collected by execution against the persons claiming to be a corporation,
or by attachment against the directors or other officers of the corporation, and
may restrain any disposition of the effects of the corporation, appoint a receiver
of its property and effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof
among the creditors and persons entitled. 

§ 6fJ0. Every person restrained of his liberty, under any
pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause
of the restraint and shall be delivered therefrom when illegal. 

§ 661. Application for the writ shall
be made by petition, signed and verified either by the plaintifff or by some per
son in his behalf, and shall specify: First, By whom the person in whose behalf
the writ is applied for is restrained of his liberty, and the place where, naming
all the parties, if they are known, or describing them, if they are not known.
Second, The cause or pretense of the restraint, according to the best of the
knowledge and belief of the applicant. Third, If the restraint be alleged tobe
illegal, in what the illegality consists. 

§ 662. Writs of habeas corpus may be
granted by any court of record in term time, or by a judge of any such court, either
in term or vacation; and upon application the writ shall be granted without
delay. 

§ 663. The writ shall be directed to the
officer or party having the person under restraint, commanding him to have such
person before the court or judge, at such time and, place as the court or judge
shall direct, to do and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and have
then and there the writ. 

§ 664. If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it shall
be delivered by the clerk to him without delay. 

§ 665. If the writ be directed toany other person, it shall be delivered to the sheriff, and shall be by him served
by delivering the same to such person without delay. 

§666. If the person to whom such writ
is directed cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the same
may be served by leaving it at the residence of the person to whom it is di
rected, or by affixing the same on some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling
house or where the party is confined or under restraint. 
§ 667. The sheriff or other person to whom
the writ is directed shall make immediate return thereof, and if he neglect or
refuse, after due service, to make return, or shall refuse or neglect to obey the
writ by producing the party named therein, and no sufficient excuse be shown
for such neglect or refusal, the court shall enforce obedience by attachment.

§ 668. The return must be signed
and verified by the person making it, who shall state: First, The authority or
cause of restraint of the party in his custody. Second, If the authority be in writ
ing, he shall return a copy and produce the original on the hearing. Third, If
he has had the party in his custody or under his restraint, and has transferred him
to another, he shall state to whom, the time, place and cause of the transfer.
He shall produce the party on the hearing, unless prevented by sickness or in
firmity, which must be shown in the return. 
§ 669. The court
or judge, if satisfied of the truth of the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may
proceed to decide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the
party can be produced, or for other good cause. The plaintifff may except to
the sufficiency of, or controvert the return or any part thereof, or allege any
new matter in avoidance; the new matter shall be verified, except in cases of
commitment on a criminal charge; the return and pleadings may be amended
without causing any delay. 
§ 670. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed
in a summary way to hear and determine the cause; and if no legal cause be
shown for the restraint or for the continuance thereof, shall discharge the party.

§ 671. No court or judge shall inquire
into the legality of any judgment or process, whereby the party is in custody,
or discharge him when the term of commitment has not expired in either of
the cases following: First, Upon process issued by any court or judge of the
United States, or where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction; or, sec
ond, upon any process issued on any final judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction; or, third, for any contempt of any court, officer or body having
authority to commit; but an order of commitment as for a contempt, upon pro
ceedings to enforce the remedy of a party, is not included in any of the foregoing
specifications; fourth, upon a warrant or commitment issued from the district
court, or any other court of competent jurisdiction, upon an indictment or in
formation. 

§ 672. No person shall be discharged from
an order of commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for want of bail,
or in cases not bailable, on account of any defect in the charge or process, or
for alleged want of probable cause; but in all such cases, the court or judge
6hall summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, and dis
charge, let to bail or recommit the prisoner, as may be just and legal, and rec
ognize witnesses when proper. 

§ 673. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting a
prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions. 

§ 674. When any person has an interest in the deten
tion, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having such interest
is notified. 

§ 675. The court or judge shall have power to
require and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other acts neces
sary to determine the case. 

§ 676. No sheriff or other officer shall be
liable to a civil action for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order of discharge
made thereon. 

§ 677. Whenever it shall appear by affi
davit that any one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is good
reason to believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the
court or judge before whom the application is made, or will suffer some irrepar
able injury before compliance with the writ can be enforced, such court or judge
may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting the facts, and directed to the sheriff
or any constable of the county, commanding him to take the person thus held
in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before the court or judge, to be
dealt with according to law. 

§ 678. The court or judge
may also, if the same be deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for
the apprehension of the person charged with causing the illegal restraint 

§ 679. The officer shall execute the
writ by bringing the person therein named before the court or judge; and the
like return and proceedings shall be required and had as in case of writs of habeas,
corpus. 

§ 680. The court or judge may make any
temporary orders in the cause or disposition of the party during the progress of
the proceedings, that justice may require. The custody of any party restrained
may be changed from one person to another, by order of the court or judge.

§ 681. Any writ or process authorized by
this article, may be issued and served, in case of emergency, on Sunday. 

§ 682. All writs
and other process, authorized by the provisions of this article, shall be issued
by the clerk of the court, and, except summons, sealed with the seal of such
court, and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless the court or judge
shall specify a particular time for any such return. And no writ or other proc
ess shall be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is shown to notify the
officer or person of the purport of the process. Amendments may be allowed,
and temporary commitments, when necessary. 

§ 683. Writs of habeas corpus shall be
granted in favor of parents, guardians, masters and husbands; and to enforce
the rights, and for the protection of, infants and insane persons; and the pro
ceedings shall, in all such cases, conform to the provisions of this article. 

§ 684. No deposit or security for cost*
shall be required of an applicant for a writ of habeas corpus. 

§ 685. The action of waste is abolished, but
any proceeding heretofore commenced or judgment rendered or right acquired,
shall not be affected thereby; and where the action of waste is specially men
tioned and authorized in any statute, it may be used until otherwise provided;
but it shall be commenced, and proceeded in throughout, in the manner pre
scribed for the civil action of this code. Wrongs heretofore remediable by ac
tions of waste, are subjects of actions as other wrongs, and the same relief shall
be granted as may now be granted under the action of waste. 

§ 686. When an officer, executor or administrator
within this state, by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bond or renders
his sureties liable, any person injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled to the
benefit of the security, may bring an action thereon in his own name, against
the officer, executor or administrator and his sureties, to recover the amount to
which he may be entitled by reason of the delinquency. The action may be in
stituted and proceeded in on a certified copy of the bond, which copy shall be
furnished by the person holding the original thereof. 

§ 687. A judgment in favor of a party for one de
linquency does not preclude the same or another party from an action on the
same security for another delinquency. 

§ 688. The writ of mandamus maybe issued
by the supreme court or the district court, or any justice or judge thereof, during
term, or at chambers, to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to
compel the performance of any act which the law specially enjoins as a duty,
resulting from an office, trust or station; but though it may require an inferior
tribunal to exercise its judgment or proceed to the discharge of any of its func
tions, it cannot control judicial discretion. 

§ 689. This writ may not be issued in any
case where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the
law. It may issue on the information of the party beneficially interested.

§ 690. The writ is either alter
native or peremptory. The alternative writ must state, concisely, the facts,
showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his omission
to perform it, and command him that immediately upon the receipt of the writ,
or at some other specified time, he do the act required to be performed or show
cause before the court whence the writ issued, at a specified time and place, why
he has not done so; and that he then and there return the writ with his certifi
cate of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause why
he has not done as commanded, must be omitted. 

§ 691. When the right to require the per
formance of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can be given
for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may be allowed in the first in
stance; in all other cases, the alternative writ must be first issued. 

§ 692. The motion for the
writ must be made upon affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the ap
plication to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show cause
why it should not be allowed, or may grant the writ without notice. 
§ 693. The allowance of the writ must
be indorsed thereon, signed by the judge of the court granting it, and the writ
must be served personally upon the defendant; if the defendant, duly served,
neglect to return the same, he shall be proceeded against, as for a contempt.
§ 694. On the return day of the alternative writ,
or such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom the writ shall
have been served may show cause, by answer made in the same manner as an
answer to a petition in a civil action. 

§ 695. If no answer be made, a
peremptory mandamus must be allowed against the defendant; if answer be
made, containing new matter, the same shall not, in any respect, conclude the
plaintifff, who may, on the trial or other proceeding, avail himself of any valid
objections to [its] sufficiency, or may countervail it by proof, either in direct de
nial or by way of avoidance. 

§ 696. No other pleading
or written allegation is allowed than the writ and answer; these are the plead
ings in the case, and have the same effect, and are to be construed and may
be amended in the same manner, as pleadings in a civil action; and the issues
thereby joined must be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had, in the
same manner as in a civil action. 

§ 697. If judgment be given for the plaintifff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be ascertained by the
court or jury, or by referees, as in a civil action, and costs; and a peremptory
mandamus shall also be granted to him without delay. 

§ 698. A recovery of damages, by virtue of this arti
cle, against a party who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus, is a
bar to any other action against the same party for the making of such return.
§ 699. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed
to any public officer, body or board, commanding the performance of any pub
lic duty specially enjoined by law, if it appear to the court that such officer, or
any member of such body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neg
lected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine, not exceed
ing five hundred dollars, upon every such officer or member of such body or
board. Such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county
where the duty ought to have been performed; and the payment thereof is a bar
to an action for any penalty incurred by such officer or member of such body or
board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined. 

§ 700. The style of all process shall be: "The state
of Kansas." It shall be under the seal of the court from whence the same shall
issue, shall be signed by the clerk, and dated the day it is issued. 

§ 701. An order for a provisional rem
edy or any other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or is inter
ested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both of these officers are interested,
the process shall be directed to and executed by a person appointed, as provided
in the next section. 

§ 702. ' The court or judge,
or the clerk, in the absence of the judge from the county, for good cause, may
appoint a person to serve a particular process or order, who shall have the same
power to execute it which the sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the
application of the party obtaining the process or order, and the return must be
verified by affidavit. He shall be entitled to the same fees allowed to the sher
iff for similar services. 

§ 703. The clerk of the district court
shall keep an appearance docket, a trial docket, a journal, a judgment docket,
an execution docket, and such other books as may be ordered by the court or
required by law. 

§ 704. On the appearance docket he shall
enter all actions in the order in which they are brought, the date of the sum
mons, the time of the return thereof by the officer, and his return thereon, the
time of filing the petition, and all subsequent pleadings and papers, and an ab
stract of all judgments and orders of the court. 
§ 705. On the journal shall be entered the proceed
ings of the court of each day, and all orders of the judge in vacation or at
chambers, and also all judgments entered on confession or default. 

§ 706. The judgment docket shall be kept
in the form of an index, in which the name of each person against whom a
judgment is rendered shall appear in alphabetical order. A statement of each
judgment upon its rendition shall be entered therein, containing the names of
the parties, the amount or nature of the judgment and costs, and the date of its
rendition; and if the judgment be against several persons, the entry shall be re
peated under the name of each person against whom the judgment is rendered,
in alphabetical order. 

§ 707. In the execution docket the clerk
shall enter all executions as they are issued by him. The entry shall contain
the names of the parties, the date and amount of the judgment and costs, the
date of the execution, and the name of the county to which it is issued. The
clerk shall also record in full the return of the sheriff to each execution; and
such record shall be evidence of such return, if the original be mislaid or lost.
§ 708. When there
is no execution outstanding, the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
rendered may receive the amount of the judgment and costs, and receipt there
for, with the same effect as if the same had been paid to the sheriff on an ex
ecution; and the clerk shall be liable to be amerced for refusing to pay the
same to the party entitled thereto, when requested, and shall also be liable on
his official bond. 

§ 709. All writs and orders for
provisional remedies, and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of
the several courts, upon a praecipe filed with the clerk, demanding the same.
§ 710. It is the duty of the clerk of each of the
courts, to file together, and carefully preserve in his office, all papers delivered
to him for that purpose, in every action or special proceeding. 
§ 711. He shall keep the papers, in each case, separate,
carefully enveloped in a wrapper, labeled with the title of the cause. 
§ 712. He shall indorse upon every paper filed
with him, the day of filing it; and upon every order for a provisional remedy,
and upon every undertaking given under the same, the day of its return to hi»
office. 
§ 713. He shall, upon the return of every
summons served, enter upon the appearance docket the name of the defendant
or defendants summoned, and the day of the service upon each one. The entry
shall be evidence of the service of the summons, in case of the loss thereof.
§ 714. He shall keep the records and books
and papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings. 

§ 715. The provisions of this arti
cle shall, as far as they are applicable, apply to the clerks of all courts of rec
ord. 
§ 716. The clerk of each of the courts
shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon
him by other provisions of this code, by other statutes, and by the common law.
In the performance of his duties, he shall be under the direction of his court.
§ 717. The sheriff shall indorse upon
every summons, order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of attach
ment or injunction, the day and hour it was received by him. 
§ 718. He shall execute
every summons, order or other process, and return the same as required by law;
and if he fail to do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction of the court
that he was prevented by inevitable accident from so doing, he shall be amerced
by the court in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, upon motion and ten
days' notice, and shall be liable to the action of any person aggrieved by such
failure. 

§ 719. If the judge of a court
fail to attend at the time and place appointed for holding his court, the sheriff
shall have power to adjourn the court, from day to day, until the judge attend,
or a judge pro term, be selected; but if the judge be not present in his court, nor
a judge pro tern, be selected, within two days after the first day of the term, then
the court shall stand adjourned for the term. The sheriff shall exercise the pow
ers and duties conferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of this code,
by other statutes, and by the common law. 

§ 720. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a minis
terial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his
lawful deputy. 
§ 721. Whenever an oath is required by this code,
the affirmation of a person, conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath, shall
have the same effect. 
§ 722. The time within which an act
is to be done, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including the
last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded. 

§ 723. A ministerial officer, whose
duty it is to take security in any undertaking provided for by this code or by other
statutes, shall require the person offered as surety to make an affidavit of his
qualifications, which affidavit may be made before such officer, and shall be in
dorsed upon or attached to the undertaking, The taking of such an affidavit
shall not exempt the officer from any liability to which he might otherwise be
subject for taking insufficient security. 

§ 724. The surety in every under
taking provided for by this code or other statute, must be a resident of this state,
and worth double the sum to be secured, over and above all exemptions, debts
and liabilities. Where there are two or more sureties in the same undertaking,
they must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section.
§ 725. The judges of the supreme court
shall, during the month of the first June after this code shall take effect, and
every two years thereafter, meet at the capital of the state, and revise their
general rules, and make such amendments thereto as may be required to carry
into effect the provisions of this code, and shall make such further rules consist
ent therewith as they may deem proper. The rules so made shall apply to the
supreme court, the district courts, the probate courts, and all other courts of rec
ord. 

§ 726. The provisions of this code do not
apply to proceedings in actions or suits pending, when it takes effect. They shall
be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all respects, as if it had not been
adopted; but the provisions of this code shall apply after a judgment, order or
decree, heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceedings to enforce, vacate,
modify or reverse it. 
§ 727. Rights of civil ac
tion, given or secured by existing laws, snail be prosecuted in the manner pro
vided for by this code, except as provided in the next section. If a case ever
arise in which an action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a
right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code,
the practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to
prevent a failure of justice. 
§ 728. Until the legisla
ture shall otherwise provide, this code shall not affect proceedings to assess
damages for private property taken for public uses, nor proceedings under the
statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased persons, nor proceedings under
statutes relating to apprentices, bastardy, insolvent debtors or any special stat
utory remedy, not heretofore obtained by action; but such proceedings may be
prosecuted under the code whenever it is applicable. 

§ 729. Where, by statute, a civil
action, legal or equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is pre
scribed, this code shall not affect the proceeding under such statute, until the
legislature shall otherwise provide; but the parties may, if they see fit, proceed
under this act, and in all such cases, as far as it may be consistent with the stat
ute giving such action and practicable under this code, the proceedings shall be
conducted in conformity thereto. Where the statute designates, by name or
otherwise, the kind of action, such action shall be commenced and prosecuted
in conformity to this code. Where the statute gives an action, but does not
designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such
action shall be held to be the civil action of this code, and proceeded in accord
ingly. 

§ 730. This act shall take effect and be in force
from and after its publication in the statute book. 
§ 731. That all legal
publications heretofore made in newspapers having one side of the paper printed
away from the office of publication and known as patent insides or patent outsides,
shall have the same force and effect as if published in newspapers wholly
printed and published in such county where such publication was made. 
§ 732. That all publications and notices required by
law to be published in newspapers in this state, if published in newspapers having
one side of the paper printed away from the office of publication, known as pat
ent outsides or insides, shall have the same force and effect as though the same
were published in newspapers printed wholly and published in the county where
such publication shall be made: Provided, One side of the paper is printed in
said county where said notices are required to be published. 

§ 1. The jurisdiction of the justices of the peace
in civil actions shall be coextensive with the county wherein they may have been
elected, and wherein they shall reside: Provided, That in all actions against
two or more defendants jointly or jointly and severally liable, and who live in
adjoining counties, such actions may be brought before any justice of the peace
of the county wherein either of the defendants shall reside or may be sum
moned; and such justice shall have power and is hereby authorized to issue a
summons directed to the sheriff of any other county for service to bring in all
co-defendants who may be served in such county; and upon service of such sum
mons the justice before whom the action is pending shall have as full jurisdic
tion as to all the defendants as he would have in cases where all the defendants
resided in the county where the action is brought 

§ 2. Under the limitations
and restrictions, herein provided, justices of the peace shall have original juris
diction of civil actions for the recovery of money only, and to try and determine
the same where the amount claimed does not exceed three hundred dollars.
Second. To try the action for the forcible entry and detention, or detention
only, of real property.
Third. To issue orders of attachment and proceed against the goods and
effects of debtors in certain cases.
Fourth. To issue subpoenas for witnesses, and compel their attendance in
causes and matters pending before them, or other cause or matter wherein they
may be required to take depositions.
ifth. To issue executions on judgments rendered by them.
Sixth. To proceed against security for costs and bail for the stay of execu
tion before them in the manner prescribed by law.
Seventh. To proceed against constables failing to make return, making false
return, or failing to pay over money collected oa execution issued by such jus
tice.
Eighth. To administer any oath or affirmation authorized or required by
law to be administered.
Ninth. To take the acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages, and other instru
ments in writing.
Tenth. To act, in the absence of the probate judge, in the trial of contested
elections of justices of the peace.
Eleventh. To solemnize marriages. 

§ 3. When the balance claimed
to be due on any open or unsettled account, or on any bill, note or bond,
shall not exceed three hundred dollars, the party by whom such balance shall
be claimed may commence his action therefore, before a justice of the peace,
who shall have power, and he is hereby authorized, to hear and determine the
matters in controversy, without regard to the amount of the original account
or contract, and he may render judgment for any balance found due, not ex
ceeding three hundred dollars. 

§ 4. In actions founded upon an under
taking given in pursuance of law in any civil proceeding pending before a jus
tice, such justice, or his successor in office, shall have jurisdiction thereof, where
the sum due or demanded on such undertaking does not exceed five hundred
dollars. 
§ 5. If any debtor shall appear be
fore a justice of the peace, without process, and confess that he is indebted to
another, it shall be lawful for such justice, on the application of the creditor, to
render judgment on such confession against the debtor. 

§ 6. Justices shall have jurisdiction in actions
foi trespass on real estate, where damages demanded. for such trespass shall not
exceed one hundred dollars. 

§ 7. If in any action commenced
before a justice it appears to the satisfaction of the justice that the title or
boundaries of land is in dispute in such action, said action shall be stayed be
fore said justice, and said justice shall, within ten days thereafter, certify said
case, and transmit all papers and process therein to the clerk of the district
court of his county, and said case shall be docketed and thereafter proceeded
with in the district court as if originally commenced therein; the justice before
whom said action is commenced shall require of the defendant setting up said title or boundary, to set forth in his answer or bill of particulars a full and
specific statement of the facts constituting his defense of said title or boundary
brought in question; and the defendant shall be required to make affidavit of
the truthfulness of the statements in his said answer or bill of particulars con
tained, and that said defense is bona fide and not made for vexation or delay,
but for the promotion of justice. 

§ 8. Justices shall not have cognizance of any
action: First, To recover damages for an assault or an assault and battery; or,
second, in any action for slander or malicious prosecution; or, third, in ac
tions against justices of the peace or other officers, for misconduct in office, ex
cept in the cases provided for in this act; or, fourth, in actions on contracts
for real estate; or, fifth, in actions in which the title to real estate is sought
to be recovered, or may be drawn in question. 

§ 9. Actions before justices of the peace
are commenced by summons, or by appearance and agreement of the parties,
without summons. In the former, the action is deemed commenced upon de
livery of the writ to the constable to be served, and he shall note thereon the
time of receiving the same. In the latter case, the action is deemed commenced
at the time of docketing the case. 

§ 10. When a guardian to the suit is
necessary, he must be appointed by the justice, as follows:
First, If the infant be plaintifff, the appointment must be made before the
summons issued, upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of four
teen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the application of some friend.
The consent, in writing, of the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible
for the costs if he fail in the action, must be filed with the justice.
Second, If the infant be defendant, the guardian must be appointed before
the trial. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own guardian, if the in
fant be over fourteen years of age, and the proposed guardian be present and
consent, in writing, to be appointed; otherwise, the justice may appoint any suit
able person who gives such consent 

§ 11. The summons shall be dated the day it is issued,
signed by the justice issuing the same, directed to a constable of the proper
township (except in case a person be deputed to serve it, in which case it shall
be directed to such person), must contain the name or names of the defendant
or defendants, if known; if unknown, give a description of him of them, and
command the officer or person serving the same to summon the .defendant or
defendants to appear before such justice, at his office in township, at a
time specified therein, and must describe the plaintifff's cause of action in such
general terms as to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him;
and there shall be indorsed on the writ the amount for which the plaintifff will
take judgment, if the defendant fail to appear. If the defendant fail to appear,
judgment shall not be rendered for a larger amount and the costs. 

§ 12. In actions where
all the defendants may be summoned in the county where the action is com
menced, the summons must be returnable not more than twelve days from its
date, and must, unless accompanied by an order of arrest, be served at least
three days before the time of appearance. When all the defendants cannot be
therein summoned and summons is sent to any other county for service, it shall
be returnable not more than thirty days from its date, and must, unless accom
panied by an order of arrest, be served at least twenty days before the time of
appearance, as follows: First, by delivering a copy of the summons with the in
dorsement thereon (certified by the constable or person serving the same to be a
true copy) to the defendant, or leaving the same at his usual place of residence;
second, acknowledgment on the back of the summons or the voluntary appear
ance of a defendant is equivalent to service. 

§ 13. A summons
against a corporation may be served upon the president, mayor, chairman of
the board of directors or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its chief officer
is not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or man
aging agent; or, if none of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left
at the office or usual place of business of such corporation, with the person
having charge thereof. 

§ 14. When
the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought
in the county in which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the
chief officer of such agency. 
§ 15. When the defendant is
a foreign corporation, having a managing agent in this state, the service may
be upon such agent. 
§ 16. When the defendant is a minor, under
the age of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon his guardian
or father; or, if neither of these can be found, then upon his mother, or the per
son having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither
of these can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of age, serv
ice on him alone shall be sufficient. The manner of service may be the same
as in the case of adults. 

§ 17. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear, after the time mentioned in the summons
for appearance, or to which the case is adjourned, but are not bound to remain
longer than that time, unless both parties have appeared, and the justice, being
present, is engaged in the trial of another cause. In such case the justice may
postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial. 

§ 18. An order for the arrest o*
the defendant in a civil action shall be made by the justice of the peace before
whom the same is brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his authorized agent or attorney, made before any person authorized
by law to administer oaths, stating the nature of the plaintifff's claim, that it is
just, the amount thereof, as near as may be, and showing one or more of the
following particulars :
First, That the defendant has removed or begun to remove any of his prop
erty out of the county, with intent to defraud his creditors.
Second, That the defendant has begun to convert his property, or any part
thereof, into money, for the purpose of defrauding his creditors.
Third, That he has property or rights in action which he fraudulently con
ceals.
Fourth, That he has assigned, removed or disposed of, or has begun to as
sign, remove or dispose of his property, or any part thereof, with intent to de
fraud his creditors.
Fifth, That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
obligation for which suit is about to be brought.
Sixth, That the defendant is about to abscond, with intent to defraud his
creditors. The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts claimed to
justify the belief in the existence of one or more of the above particulars. 

§ 19. The order of arrest may
be made to accompany the summons, or at any time afterwards before judgment.

§ 20. The order of arrest shall not be issued by
a justice of the peace until there has been executed, by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plaintifff, a written undertaking, to the effect that the plaintifff shall
pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of the
plaintifff's claim, stated in the affidavit. 

§ 21. The order of arrest shall be ad
dressed and delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to a constable of the proper
township; it shall state the names of the parties, the amount of the plaintifff's
claim specified in the affidavit, be signed by the justice of the peace issuing it,
and shall require the constable to arrest the defendant and bring him forthwith
before said justice. 
§ 22. The officer receiving said order
shall execute the same by forthwith arresting the defendant and delivering to
him a copy thereof, and of the affidavit; and the defendant so arrested, unless
the claim of the plaintifff, specified in the affidavit, and costs of suit, are paid, or
unless discharged from custody by order of the plaintifff, shall be taken by such
constable, forthwith, before the justice of the peace by whom said order of arrest
was issued, and kept in custody until discharged by law. 

§ 23. Upon the return of said order of ar
rest, executed in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of said cause shall
proceed, unless for good cause shown, upon the application of either party, or
at the instance of the justice himself, the same shall be continued, as is provided
for in other cases before justices of the peace; and when the trial of said cause
is continued for any period, the defendant, upon executing, with one or more
sufficient sureties, a written undertaking to the effect that if judgment be ren
dered against him upon the final determination of the action, he will render him
self amenable to the process thereon; or upon depositing in the hands of the
justice of the peace the amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest, and
the probable amount of cost of suit, shall be forthwith discharged from custody.

§ 24. In no case shall the defendant be
detained in the custody of the officer, when a continuance has been for a period
of more than forty-eight hours, unless said continuance has been made at the
instance, or with the consent, of the defendant himself. 

§ 25. If the defend
ant, before the commencement of the trial, file his affidavit with the justice, de
nying the grounds laid in the affidavit of the plaintifff for the arrest, the truth of
such grounds shall be considered in issue on the trial, and shall be tried at the
same time and in the same manner as the other issues in the case; but a sepa
rate finding shall be made whether such grounds are "true" or "not sustained
by the evidence." If all the grounds are found to be not sustained by the evi
dence, the defendant shall be discharged. 

§ 26. On judgment against the defend
ant, in any civil action before a justice of the peace, when the defendant is in
the custody of the officer, as hereinbefore provided, or if, after judgment against
him, there is filed, in the office of such justice, an affidavit of the plaintifff, his
authorized agent or attorney, made before any person competent to administer an
oath, stating the amount of judgment remaining unpaid, and one or more of the
particulars mentioned in section eighteen, said justice of the peace shall, unless
otherwise ordered by the plaintifff, issue an execution, and accompany the same
with an order for the arrest of the defendant. 

§ 27. Said order of arrest
shall be addressed and delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the constable
having said execution, and shall state the names of the parties, be signed by
the justice issuing it, and state the amount of the judgment and costs unpaid,
and shall require the officer, in case the same shall not be paid, or an amount
of property of the defendant, whereon to levy execution, sufficient to satisfy the
same cannot be found in his county, to arrest the defendant, if not already in
the custody of the officer, and deliver him to the sheriff of the proper county,
to be committed by him to the jail of the county, and kept in custody until dis
charged by law. 

§ 28. The plaintifff in a civil action
for the recovery of money may, at or after the commencement thereof, have an
attachment against the property of the defendant, and upon the grounds herein
stated:
First, When the defendant or one of several defendants is a foreign corpo
ration or non-resident of this state; (but no attachment shall be granted on the
ground or grounds in this clause stated, for any claim other than a debt or de
mand arising upon contract, judgment or decree, unless the cause of action
arose wholly within the limits of this state, which fact must be established on
the trial); or,
Second, When the defendant or one of several defendants has absconded
with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Third, Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a sum
mons; or,
Fourth, So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon him;
or,
Fifth, Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof, out of the juris
diction of the court, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Sixth, Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for
the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors; or,
Seventh, Has property or rights in action which he conceals; or,
Eighth, Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is about to dispose of his
property, or a part thereof, with the intent to defraud, hinder or delay his credit
ors; or,
Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the debt, or fraudulently incurred the lia
bility or obligation, for which suit is about to be or has been brought; or,
Tenth, Where the damages for which the action is brought are for injuries
arising from the commission of some felony, or misdemeanor; or,
Eleventh, When the debtor has failed to pay the price or value of the article
or thing delivered, which by contract he was bound to pay upon delivery. 

§ 29. The order of attachment shall not be
issued by the justice until there has been executed in his office, by one or more
sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the justice, an undertaking,
not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, to the effect that the
plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of
the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained. 

§ 30. The order of attachment may be made to accom
pany the summons, or at any time afterward before judgment; it shall be ad
dressed and delivered to any constable of the proper township, and shall require
him to attach the goods, chattels, stocks or interest in stocks, rights, credits,
monies and effects of the defendant in his county, not exempt by law from
being applied to the payment of the plaintifff' s claim, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the plaintifffs claim, to be stated in the order as in the affidavit, and the
probable costs of the action, not exceeding fifty dollars. 

§ 31. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same as that of
the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be executed and returned forth
with. 
§ 32. When there are several orders of
attachment against the same defendant, in the hands of the same officer, they
shall be executed in the order in which they were received by said officer. He
shall go to the place where the defendant's property may be found, and there,
in the presence of two credible persons, declare that by virtue of said order, he
attaches said property at the suit of such plaintifff; and the officer, with two
householders of the county, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer,
shall make a true inventory and appraisement of all property attached, which
shall be signed by the officer and said householders, and returned with the
order; when the property can be come at, he shall take the same into his cus
tody, and hold it subject to the order of the justice. 
§ 33. The consta
ble shall deliver the property attached to the person in whose possession it was
found, upon the execution by such person, in the presence of the constable, of
an undertaking to the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, resident in
the county, to the effect that the parties to the same are bound in double the
appraised value thereof, that the property or its appraised value in money shall
be forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the action; but if it
shall appear to the court that any part of said property has been lost or
destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be remitted to the
person or persons so found. 

§ 34. Different attachments of the same
property may be made, and one inventory and appraisement shall be sufficient.
The lien of the attachments shall be in the order in which they are served, and
the subsequent attachments shall be served on the property as in the hands of
the officer, and subject to the prior attachments. The justice who issued the at
tachment having the priority of lien, shall determine all questions as to the
priority of liens on the property attached. 
§ 35. If the order of attach
ment is made to accompany the summons, a copy thereof and the summons
shall be served upon the defendant in the usual manner for the service of sum
mons, if the same can be done within the county; and when any property of
the defendant has been taken under the order of attachment, and it shall appear
that the summons issued in the action has not been and cannot be served on
the defendant in the county, in the manner prescribed by law, the justice of the
peace shall continue the cause for a period not less than thirty or more than fifty
days; whereupon the plaintifff shall proceed, for three consecutive weeks, to
publish, in some newspaper printed in the Gounty, or, if none be printed therein,
then in some newspaper of general circulation in said county, a notice, stating
the names of the parties, the time when, by what justice of the peace, and for
what sum said order was issued and the time when the cause will be heard, and
shall make proof of such publication to the justice; and thereupon said action
shall be proceeded with the same as if said summons had been duly served.
§ 36. When the cause is continued, as
provided for in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any of the prop
erty taken under the attachment is live stock, or is of a perishable nature, the
justice may issue his order directing the officer having custody thereof, to dis
pose of the same as upon execution; and the monies realized therefrom shall
be paid over to the justice, and applied as other money realized from the sale
of the property attached is applied. 
§ 37. When the plaintifff, his agent or at
torney, shall make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to and does believe
that any person or corporation, to be named, and within the county where the
action is brought, has property of the defendant, (describing the same,) or cred
its in his possession, or is indebted to him, if the officer cannot come at the
property, he shall leave with such garnishee a «opy of the order of attachment,
with a written notice that he appear before the justice, at the return of the
order of attachment and answer, as provided in section thirty-nine: .Provided,
That when the garnishee is a corporation, the answer day for such garnishee
shall in no case be less than ten days from the day of service of the written
notice aforesaid; and if the office or place of business of the president or other
head of the said corporation, or of the secretary, cashier or managing agent
thereof, is not held or kept in the county where the action is pending, the an
swer day for such garnishee shall not be less than twenty days from the day of
service of written notice as aforesaid. 

§ 38. The copy of the order and notice shall be
served upon the garnishee as follows: If he be a person, they shall be served
upon him personally, or left at his usual place of residence; if a corporation,
they shall be left with the president or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier or managing agent thereof. 
§ 39. The garnishee shall appear
before the justice, in accordance with the command of the notice, and shall
answer, under oath, all questions put to him touching the property of every de
scription and credits of the defendant, in his possession or under his control;
and he shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether
due or not; and in the case of a corporation, any stock therein held by or for
the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of the notice. The exam
ination of the garnishee, with the questions and answers, shall be reduced to
writing by the justice, or in his presence signed by the party and filed, unless
the parties otherwise agree. 

§ 40. A garnishee may pay the money
owing to the defendant by him, to the constable having the order of attachment,
or into court. He shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for any
money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim. He shall not be subject to
costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim against him, and if he
disclose the property in his hands, or the true amount owing by him, and deliver
or pay the same according to the order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

§ 41. If the garnishee do not appear
and answer, as required by section thirty-nine, the justice may proceed against
him by attachment, as for a contempt. 
§ 42. If the garnishee
appear and answer, and it is discovered on his examination that at or after the
service of the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of any
property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the justice may order the
delivery of such property, and the payment of the amount owing by the gar
nishee into court, or may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the
amount owing, upon the execution of an undertaking to the plaintifff, by one
or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall be paid or the
property forthcoming, as the court may direct. 

§ 43. If the garnishee
fails to appear and answer, or if he appears and answers, and his disclosure is
not satisfactory to the plaintifff, or if he fails to comply with the order of the
justice to deliver the property and pay the money owing into court, or give
the undertaking required in the preceding section, the plaintifff may proceed
against him in an action, in his own name, as in other cases; and thereupon
such proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may be rendered
in favor of the plaintifff for the amount of the property and credits of every
kind, of the defendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall
appear to be owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the proceed
ings against the garnishee. If the plaintifff proceed against the garnishee by
action, for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appears in
the action that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintifff shall pay the costs
of such action. The judgment in this action may be enforced as judgments in
-other cases. When the claims of the plaintifffs in attachment are satisfied by
the garnishee, he may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintifff .in the judg
ment. 

§ 44. The plaintifff may give notice to the
justice that the answer of the garnishee is unsatisfactory, and demand a trial of
the truth of such answer, and the justice shall thereupon appoint a day for such
trial, which shall be conducted, in all respects, as in other cases. 

§ 45. Final judgment shall not be
rendered against the garnishee until the action against the defendant in attach
ment has been determined; and if, in such action, judgment be rendered for the
defendant in attachment, the garnishee shall be discharged, and recover costs.
If the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in attachment, and the gar
nishee shall deliver up all property, monies and credits of the defendant in his
possession, and pay all the monies from him due, as the court may order, the
garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him shall
be paid out of the property and monies so surrendered, or as the court may
think right and proper. 

§ 46. If judgment be rendered, in the action, for
the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached,
or its proceeds, shall be returned to him. 

§ 47. If judgment be rendered for
the plaintifff, it shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property remaining
in the hands of the officers, after applying the monies arising from the sale of
perishable property, and so much of the personal property, if any, as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold, by order of the justice, und§r
the same restrictions and regulations as if the same had been levied on by exe
cution; and the money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be recov
ered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs. If
there be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment shall stand, and execu
tion may issue thereon for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any
surplus of the attached property, or its proceeds, shall be returned to the defend
ant. 

§ 48. The justice may order the constable to
repossess himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached property
which may have passed out of his hands without having been sold or converted
into money; and the constable shall, under such order, have the same power to
take the property as he would have under an order of attachment. 
§ 49. Where Beveral attachments are executed on the
same property, or the same persons are made garnishees, the justice issuing the
first order served, on the motion of any of the plaintifffs, may determine the
amounts and priorities of the several attachments, and the proceeds shall be ap
plied accordingly. 
§ 50. The officer shall return, upon every or
der of attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show the prop
erty attached, and the time it was attached. When garnishees are served, their
names, and the time each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also
return, with the order, all undertakings given under it. 
§ 51. An order of attachment binds the prop
erty attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall stand liable to
the plaintifff in attachment for all property, monies and credits in his hands, or
due from him to the defendant, from the time he is served with the written no
tice mentioned in section thirty-seven; but when property is attached in the
hands of a consignee or other person having a prior lien, his lien thereon shall
not be affected by the attachment 

§ 52. If the defendant, or other
person in his behalf, at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be
executed to the plaintifff, by one or more sureties, resident in the county, to be
approved by the justice, in double the amount of the plaintifff's claim, to be stated
in his affidavit, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of
the justice, the attachment in such action shall be discharged, and restitution
made of any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof. Such undertak
ing shall also discharge the liability of a garnishee, in such action, for any prop
erty of the defendant in his hands. 

§ 53. If the defendant shall, hefore the
trial is commenced, file an affidavit, denying the grounds laid for the attach
ment in the plaintifff's affidavit, the justice shall, on reasonable notice, in writ
ing, being given to the opposite party, proceed to examine into the truth of the
grounds laid for such attachment, and shall hear such evidence as may be pro
duced by either party; and if it appear that such grounds are not sustained by
the evidence, the justice shall discharge the attachment. 

§ 54. If, in any
case where an order of attachment has been issued by a justice of the peace,
it shall appear from the return of the officer and from the examination of the gar
nishee, that no property, monies, rights, credits or effects of the defendant has
been taken under the attachment, but that the defendant is the owner of an in
terest in real estate in the county, the justice before whom such action is pend
ing shall, at the request of the plaintifff, forthwith certify his proceedings to the
district court of the proper county; and thereupon the clerk of said court shall
docket said cause, and the action shall be proceeded with in said court in all
respects as if the same had originated therein. 

§ 54a. That in
all personal actions arising upon contract before justices of the peace if the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall file with the justice, at the time of or after the
commencement of suit, an affidavit stating that he has good reason to believe,
and does believe, that any person or corporation to be named, and within the
county where the action is brought, has property, money, goods, chattels, credits
and effects in his hands, or under his contract, belonging to the defendant, or
that such person or corporation is anywise indebted to the principal defend
ant, whether such indebtedness be due or not, that the principal defendant (nam
ing him) is justly indebted to the plaintifff in a given amount over and above all
legal setoff, and that the plaintifff has good reason to and does believe that he
will lose the same unless a garnishee summons issue to the aforesaid person, a
garnishee summons shall be issued and personally served, in the same manner
as an ordinary summons, and from the time of such service the garnishee shall
Btand liable to the plaintifff for all property, money and articles in his hands or
due from him to the defendant. 

§ 54i. Said garnishee summons shall be
directed to the proper officer, reciting the commencement of suit against the
principal defendant and the filing of the affidavit, and thereupon commanding
said officer to warn and summons such person to appear before said justice, on
a day named, not more than twenty days from the date of issuing the same, to
make disclosure, under his oath, to be filed with the said justice, touching his li
ability as garnishee of the principal defendant (naming him) as charged in said
affidavit, and thenceforth to pay no money and deliver no property to the de
fendant (naming him), and of said writ to make due return. 
§ 54c. The garnishee shall appear before the jus
tice in accordance with the commands of said summons, and the same proceed
ings shall thereafter be had in case of the appearance or default of said garnishee,
as near as may be, and with like effect as in proceedings against a garnishee in
attachment before justices of the peace. 
§ 5id. That when under proceed
ings to which this act is supplemental, it shall appear to the justice from the
answers of the garnishee that he has property, monies, credits, chattels or ef
fects in his hands, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, or that the
garnishee is anywise indebted to the defendant, and that the summons issued in
the action has not been and cannot be served on the defendant in the county in
the manner prescribed by law, the justice shall continue the cause for a period
of not less than thirty nor more than fifty days, and thereupon service may be
made by publication in the same manner and with like effect as is prescribed
by law in proceedings in attachment before justices of the peace. 

§ 55. Justices of the peace shall
have jurisdiction of actions for the recovery of specific personal property not ex
ceeding one hundred dollars in value, as herein provided. 

§ 56. An action for this purpose shall not
be brought until there is filed in the office of the justice an affidavit of the plaint
iff, his agent or attorney, showing:
First, A description of the property claimed.
Second, That the plaintifff is the owner thereof, or has a special ownership
therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the imme
diate possession of the property.
Third, That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant
Fourth, That it was not taken in execution on any order or judgment against
said plaintifff, or if so taken on execution, that it is by statute exempt from seiz
ure, or for the payment of any tax, fine or amercement assessed against him, or
by virtue of an order of delivery issued under this article, or any other mesne or
final process issued against said plaintifff; and,
Fifth, The actual value of the property. When several articles are claimed,
the value of each article shall be stated as nearly as practicable. 

§ 57. The justice shall not issue a summons as
hereinafter provided, until there has been executed in his office, by one or more
sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to be approved by the justice, an undertaking
in not less than double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit, to
the effect that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and pay all costs and
damages which may be awarded against him, and if the property be delivered
to him that he will return the same to the defendant, if a return thereof be ad
judged. 

§ 58. Upon such affidavit and undertaking being ex
ecuted and filed with the justice, he shall issue a summons as in other cases, but
in addition commanding the constable immediately to seize and take into his
custody, wherever they may be found in the county, the goods and chattels men
tioned in the affidavit, and deliver the same to the plaintifff. 

§ 59. The constable shall execute the writ by
taking the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a copy of the
summons to the persons charged with the unlawful detention of property, or
leave such a copy at his usual place of residence, and shall make return of the
time and manner of service, and any undertaking taken by him. 
§ 60. If, within twentyfour
hours after service or the copy of the summons, there is executed, by one
or more sufficient sureties of the defendant, to be approved by the constable, an
undertaking to the plaintifff, in not less than double the amount of the value of
the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, to the effect that the de
fendant will deliver the property to the plaintifff if such delivery be adjudged,
and will pay all costs and damages that may be awarded against him, the con
stable shall return the property to the defendant. If such undertaking be not
given within twenty-four hours after the service of the order, the constable shall
deliver the property to the plaintifff. 

§ 61. The plaintifff may, within twentyfour
hours from the time the undertaking mentioned in the preceding section
is given by the defendant, give notice to the constable that he excepts to the
sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he must be deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the plaintifff excepts, the sureties must
justify, upon notice, as bail on arrest. The constable shall be responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is waived, as above
provided, or until they justify. 
§ 62. The affidavit of the plaintifff,
as to the value of the property, shall fix the jurisdiction of the justice so far as
such value is concerned; but the value of the property shall not be assessed
against the defendant at a greater amount than that sworn to by the plaintifff in
his affidavit 

§ 63. If the property has been delivered
to the plaintifff, and he fails to prosecute his action to final judgment, the justice
shall, upon the application of the defendant or his attorney, empanel a jury to
inquire into the right of property, and the right of possession of the defendant
to the property taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that the said property was
the property of the defendant at the commencement of the action, or if the said
jury be satisfied that the defendant was entitled to the possession at such time,
they shall find accordingly, and shall further find the value of such property, or
the value of the possession thereof, and any damages for withholding the same
as may be just and proper. 
§ 64. In all cases when the property has been deliv
ered to the plaintifff, when the jury shall find for the defendant, they shall also
find whether the defendant had the right of property, or the right of possession
only, at the commencement of the suit, and, if they find either in his favor, they
shall also find the value of the property, or the value of the possession, and such
damages for withholding said property as may be just and proper. 

§ 65. The judgment in the cases mentioned in the
two preceding sections shall be for the return of the property, or for the value
thereof, or the value of the possession of the same, in case a return cannot be
had, and for damages for withholding said property, and the costs of suit.

§ 66. In all cases when the property has
been delivered to the plaintifff, where the jury shall find for the plaintifff on the
trial, or on inquiry of damages, they shall assess adequate damages to the plaint
iff for the illegal detention of the property, for which, with costs of suit, the
justice shall render judgment against the defendant. 
§ 67. When the property claimed has not been
taken, the action may proceed as one for damages only, and the plaintifff shall
be entitled to such damages as may be right and proper. 

§ 68. The constable, in executing the
writ, may break open any building or enclosure in which the property claimed,
or any part thereof, is concealed; but not until he has been refused an entrance
into said building or enclosure, and the delivery of the property, after having
demanded the same. 
§ 69. Whenever it shall be made to ap
pear to the satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or other
wise, that the defendant, or any other person, knowingly conceals the property
sought to be recovered, or, having control thereof, refuses to deliver the same
to the officer, the justice may commit such defendant, or other person, until he
or they disclose where such property is, or deliver the same to the officer. 
§ 70. If any justice shall issue
a writ to replevin property, as is provided by this act, without the affidavit and
undertaking being executed and filed in his office, as is provided in this article,
the same shall be set aside at his costs, and he shall be liable, in damages, to
the party injured. 

§ 71. In all cases before a justice, the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall file with such justice a bill of particulars of
bis demand, and the defendant, if required by the plaintifff, his agent or attor
ey, shall file a like bill of particulars he may claim as a setoff; and the evi
dence on the trial shall be confined to the items set forth in said bill. 

§ 72. The bill of particulars
must state, in a plain and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of ac
tion or the claim to be set off. 

§ 73. The bill of particulars of the plaintifff
must be filed at the time the action is commenced, and that of the defendant must
be filed at or before the hour named in the summons for the appearance of the
defendant, unless further time be given' by the justice, for good cause shown.
§ 74. The
bill of particulars may be amended at any time before the trial, or during the
trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency or omission in the items, when,
by such amendment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment
be made at the time of or during the trial, and it be made to appear to the sat
isfaction of the justice, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse
party, in consequence of such amendment, an adjournment must be granted.
The justice may also, in his discretion, require, as a condition of an amendment,
the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the justice; but such
payment cannot be required unless an adjournment is made necessary by the
amendment. 

§ 75. If, on the return of process, or at any time be
fore trial shall have been commenced, either party shall file with the justice of
the peace before whom any cause is instituted or is pending for trial, an affi
davit, stating: First, That such justice is a material witness for either party;
or, second, that he verily believes that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial
before such justice, on account of the bias or prejudice of the said justice against
the affiant; or, third, if a jury be demanded by the adverse party, then that
lie cannot, as he verily believes, have a fair and impartial trial in such town
ship, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof, the trial of the
case shall be changed to some other justice of the peace, as provided in the
next section. 
§ 76. If the place of the trial be
changed on account of the bias or prejudice of the justice, or of his being a
material witness in the cause, such cause shall be transferred for trial before
some other justice of the peace of the same township, if there be one there le
gally competent to try such cause; if there be no such justice within such town
ship, or if such change be granted on account of the bias of prejudice of the
citizens of such township against such party, the case shall be taken to some
justice in an adjoining township of the same county. 

§ 77. The justice granting such
change shall deliver or transmit the papers in the cause, together with a certi
fied transcript of the proceedings before him, to the justice to whom such change
may be granted, who shall proceed therein, and have the same jurisdiction, pow
ers and duties, in all respects whatever, as if such suit had been originally insti
tuted before him. 
§ 78. Before any such change shall be allowed, the costs,
as specified in the next following section, shall be paid by the party applying
for such change, or he shall have confessed a judgment therefore before the jus
tice granting the change. 
§ 79. When such change is at the instance
of the plaintifff, he shall be taxed with all the costs which have accrued, and
which shall accrue in the cause, until such transcript and papers shall be deliv
ered to the justice to whom such cause is removed for trial; and when on the
application of the defendant, he shall be taxed with the costs which have accrued
for issuing subpoenas to witnesses, and service thereof, witness fees, and costs of
the justice for transferring the cause to the docket of the other justice. 

§ 80. Upon the return day, if a jury be required,
or if the justice be actually engaged in other official business, he may adjourn
the trial without the consent of either party, as follows: First, Where a
party is in attendance who is not a resident of the county, or where the defend
ant is in attendance, under arrest, the adjournment not to exceed forty-eight
hours, and the defendant, if under arrest, to continue in custody. Second, In
other cases, not to exceed eight days, unless by consent of parties. If the trial
be not adjourned, it must take place at the time stated in the summons. 

§ 81. Either party may have the trial adjourned
without the consent of the other, for a period not exceeding fifteen days, by filing
an affidavit of himself, his agent or attorney, that he cannot, for want of ma
terial testimony which he has been unable to procure, safely proceed to trial.
§ 82. An adjournment may be had on ac
count of the absence of evidence by either party on the return day, or any other
subsequent time to which the case may be adjourned, on the application of either
party, for a period not exceeding ninety days from the time of the return day
of the summons, upon filing an affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence
expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it, and
where the evidence may be; and if it is for an absent witness, the affidavit must
show where the witness resides, if his residence is known to the party, and the
probability of procuring his testimony within a reasonable time, and what facts
he believes the witness will prove, and that he believes them to be true. If
thereupon the adverse party will consent that on the trial the statement of facts
alleged in the affidavit shall be read and treated as the deposition of the absent
witness, or that the facts in relation to other evidence shall be taken as proved
to the extent as alleged in the affidavit, no continuance shall be granted on the
ground of the absence of such evidence. 

§ 83. If either party fail to appear
at the time specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or fail to
attend at the time to which the trial has been adjourned, or fail to file the
necessary bill of particulars, the cause may proceed at the request of the ad
verse party; and in all cases where a counterclaim or setoff has been filed be
fore the dismissal of the cause by the plaintifff, the defendant shall have the
right to proceed with the trial of his claim. 
§ 84. In all actions, al
legations of the execution of written instruments and indorsements thereon, of
the existence of a corporation or partnership, or any appointment or authority,
or the correctness of an account duly verified by the affidavit or affirmation of
the party, his agent or attorney, shall be taken as true unless the denial of the
same be verified by the affidavit of the opposite party, his agent or attorney.
§ 85. Any justice may issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial pending before himself,
or for the purpose of taking depositions, or to perpetuate testimony. 
§ 86. Subpoenas may be served by a constable or
any other person, and shall be served by reading the same or stating the con
tents thereof to the witness, or by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of
residence. 
§ 87. When not served by a constable or some person
deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be charged in the suit for
serving it. 
§ 88. If any witness, having
been subpoenaed, attend, and be not examined by either party, the costs of such
witness shall be paid by the party ordering the subpoena, unless the adverse
party, by confessing the matter or otherwise, render unnecessary the examina
tion of such witness. 
§ 89. Whenever it shall appear to the
satisfaction of a justice, by proof made before him, that any person has been
duly served with a subpoena to appear and give testimony before him in any
matter in which he has authority to require such witness to appear and testify,
that his testimony is material, and that he refuses or neglects to attend as such
witness, in conformity with such subpoena, the justice shall issue a warrant to
arrest the delinquent, for the purpose of compelling his attendance and punish
ing his disobedience. 
§ 90. When the person arrested is brought before the
justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify as a witness, and no
valid excuse be shown, the justice may impose a fine on him not exceeding five
dollars. An entry of such fine, stating the reason thereof, must be made by
the justice in his docket; and thereupon shall have the effect of a judgment in
favor of the state of Kansas against the delinquent, and may be enforced against
his person or property. 
§ 91. Every person subpoenaed as afore
said, and neglecting to appear or refusing to testify, shall also be liable to the
party in whose behalf he shall have been subpoenaed, for all damages which
such party shall sustain by reason of such delinquency. 
§ 92. Depositions may be taken to be read in any
cause pending before a justice of the peace, in like manner, and subject to the
same rules and restrictions and rules of law, as in cases pending in courts of
record. 
§ 93. At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall
have been demanded by either party, the justice shall proceed to try the action,
shall hear the proofs and determine the cause, according to law and the right.

§ 94. Where parties agree to enter, without
process, before a justice, an action, of which such justice has cognizance, the
justice shall enter the same on his docket and proceed to trial, judgment and
execution, in all respects in the same manner as if summons had been issued,
served and returned. 
§ 95. In all civil actions, after an appear
ance of the defendant, and before the justice shall proceed to inquire into the
merits of the cause, either party may demand a jury to try the action, which
jury shall be composed of six good and lawful men, having the qualifications of
jurors in the district court, unless the parties shall agree on a less number. 
§ 96. When a jury is demanded, the trial of the
case must be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the jury; if neither
party desire an adjournment, the time must be determined by the justice, and
must be on the same day or within the next two days. The jury must be im
mediately selected as herein provided. 
§ 97. The justice shall write in a panel
the names of eighteen persons, citizens of the county, from which the defend
ant, his. agent or attorney, must strike one name, the plaintifff, his agent or at
torney, one, and so on alternately, until each shall have stricken six names,
and the remaining six shall constitute the jury to try such case; and if either
party neglect or refuse to aid in striking the jury as aforesaid, the justice shall
strike the same in behalf of such party. 
§ 98. The justice thereupon shall issue a sum
mons for the jury, in which the following form shall be observed, in substance,
as near as practicable: "The state of Kansas, county. The state of
Kansas to , constable of township: You are hereby com
manded to summon to appear before me at , in said township,
on the day of , A. D. , at o'clock in the
noon, to serve as jurors in a case pending before me, then and there to be tried,

and this they shall in no wise omit; and have you then there this writ, with your
doings thereon. Given under my hand this day of , A. D. .
A. B., Justice of the Peace." 
§ 99. The constable shall serve such summons by a
personal service thereof, and return the same indorsed with the names of the
persons summoned, at the time appointed for the trial of the cause. 
§ 100. Jurors, for neglecting or re
fusing to attend when properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in at
tendance, shall be liable to a like penalty, and be proceeded against in the same
manner, as witnesses who fail to attend or refuse to testify. 
§ 101. The constable shall be in at
tendance on the court, at and during the progress of the trial; and if, from
challenge or other cause, the panel shall not be full, he may fill the same in
the same manner as is done by the sheriff in the district court. 
§ 102-. When a jury shall be in attendance and
the cause shall be continued, the jurors must attend at the time and place ap
pointed for the trial, without further notice. 
§ 103. If either party object to the competency
of a juror, the question thereon must be tried in summary manner by the jus
tice, who may examine the juror or other witness under oath. 
§ 104. The plaintifff and defendant shall each be entitled to challenge peremptorily two talesmen. 
§ 105. The justice shall administer an oath or affirmation
to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in difference between the parties,
and a true verdict give according to the evidence. 
§ 106. The justice shall, upon the request of
either party, instruct the jury upon any point of law arising in the case; but
such instructions shall be reduced to writing before they are given, and shall be
filed among the papers in the case. 

§ 107. After the jury shall have been sworn, they
shall sit together and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and, after
hearing the same, shall be kept together in some convenient place, under the
charge of a constable, until they have agreed upon their verdict or shall be dis
charged by the justice. 

§ 108. When the jurors shall have agreed upon their
verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice publicly, who shall enter it upon his
docket. 
§ 109. Whenever the justice shall be satis
fied that a jury, sworn in any cause before him, cannot agree on their verdict,
after having consulted upon it a reasonable time, he may discharge them and
continue the cause, and may, if required by either party, proceed to strike
another jury as hereinbefore provided. The cause shall be continued until
such time as the justice thinks reasonable, unless the parties or their attorneys
agree on a longer or shorter time, or unless they agree that the justice may
render judgment on the evidence already heard before him. 
§ 110. The justice before whom a cause has been
tried, on motion of the party aggrieved, at any time within five days after the
decision or verdict, shall vacate- the decision or verdict and grant a new trial,
for the same reasons and upon the same terms and conditions as provided in
the code of civil procedure in like causes; and he shall set a time for a new
trial, of which the opposite party shall have at least three days' notice. 

§ 111. The opposite party shall also have a reasonable
notice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is not made on the day of the
former trial and in the presence of such party; such notice to be given by the
applying party. If the new trial shall be granted, or the jury unable to agree,
the proceedings shall be, in all respects, as upon the return of the summons.
§ 112. In all cases which shall be tried by
a jury before a justice of the peace, either party shall have the right to except
to the opinion of the justice upon any question of law arising during the trial
of the cause; and when either party shall allege such exception, it shall be the
duty of the justice to allow and sign a bill containing such exception, if truly
alleged, with the point decided, so that the same may be made part of the
record of the cause. 

§ 112a. Bills of exception
may be made, signed and sealed in any case tried before a justice of the peace,
whether the action be tried by a jury or by the justice, and such bill may be
signed and sealed at any time within ten days from the day on which judgment
8 given in the action, and not thereafter. 

§ 1123. In all bills of excep
tion it shall be competent for the party preparing the same to set out the plead
ings, motions and decisions of the justice of the peace thereon; and the whole
of the evidence given or so much ao may be necessary to preserve the point or
points raised and decided on the trial, and the rulings and decisions of the court
and exceptions made thereto on the trial. 

§ 113. Judgment that the action he
dismissed without prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the
following cases: First, When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action be
fore it is finally submitted. Second, When he fails to appear at the time speci
fied in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or upon adjournment.

§ 114. When judgment shall have been
rendered against a defendant, in his absence, the same may be set aside upon
the following conditions:
First, That his motion be made within ten days after such judgment was
entered.
Second, That he pays or confesses judgment for the costs awarded against
him.
Third, That he file an affidavit that he has a just and valid defense to the
whole, or some part, of the plaintifffs claim.
Fourth, That he notifies, in writing, the opposite party, his agent or attor
ney, or causes it to be done, of the opening of such judgment, and of the time
and place of trial, at least five days before the time, if the party resides in the
county, and if he be not a resident of the county, by leaving a written notice
thereof at the office of the justice, ten days before the trial. 

§ 115. Upon a verdict, the justice
must immediately render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the jus
tice, judgment must be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the
defendant has been arrested, or his property attached; in other cases, it must
be entered either at the close of the trial, or, if the justice then desires further
time to consider, on or by the fourth day thereafter, both days inclusive. 

§ 116. When the amount due
to either party exceeds the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judg
ment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment, may be entered for the
residue. A defendant need not remit such excess, and may withhold setting the
same off; and a recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or any part thereof,
shall not be a bar to his subsequent action for the amount withheld. 

§ 117. If the defendant,
any time before trial, offers, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against
him for a specified sum, the plaintifff may immediately have judgment therefore,
with the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept such offer before the trial,
and fails to recover, in the action, a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover
costs accrued after the offer, but costs must be adjudged against him; but the
offer, and failure to accept it, cannot be given in evidence or mentioned on the
trial. 

§ 118. When judgment
is rendered in a case where the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment,
it must be so stated in the judgment, and entered on the docket. 
§ 119. For the purpose of docketing in the district
court, the abstract of a judgment of a justice of the peace shall be in the fol
lowing form (fill up the blanks as required): "State of Kansas, county.
, plaintifff, vs. , defendant. In justice's court, before
, justice of the peace, township, , 186 —. Judgment en
tered for plaintifff (or defendant). Debt ■% . Costs $ . I hereby cer
tify that the foregoing is a full and correct abstract of a judgment rendered by
me in the suit above entitled. , Justice of the Peace.''''

§ 120. In all cases, not otherwise specially provided
for by law, either party may appeal from the final judgment of any justice of
the peace to the district court of the county where the judgment was rendered.

§ 121. The party appealing shall, within ten days
from the rendition of judgment, enter into an undertaking to the adverse party
with at least one good and sufficient surety, to be approved by such justice, in
a sum not less than fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the amount of
the judgment and costs, conditioned: First, That the appellant will prosecute
the appeal to effect and without unnecessary delay; and, second, that if judg
ment be rendered against him on the appeal, he will satisfy such judgment and
costs; said undertaking need not be signed by the appellant: Provided, That
when any municipality desires to appeal, no bond shall be required, and it shall
be sufficient to perfect any such appeal if the appellant shall, within ten days
after the rendition of the judgment, cause to be filed with the justice of the
peace a statement in writing that appellant does appeal from such judgment to
the district court of the county, ' ' and file an affidavit setting forth the appeal is
not taken for vexation or delay, but because the affiant believes that the appel
lant is aggrieved by the judgment." 

§ 122. The appeal shall be complete
upon the filing and approval ot the undertaking as provided in section 121.
The said justice shall immediately make out a certified transcript of his proceed
ings in the cause, and shall, within twenty days from the rendition of the judg
ment, deliver or transmit to the clerk of the district court of his county the said
transcript, the undertaking on appeal, and all the papers in the cause; all further
proceedings before the justice of the peace in the case shall cease and be stayed
on the filing of the undertaking with said justice; no notice of appeal shall be re
quired to be filed or served, and the case shall be tried de novo in the district court
upon the original papers on which the cause was tried before the justice, unless theappellate
court, in furtherance of justice, allow amended pleadings to be made,
or new pleadings to be filed. 

§ 123. The clerk on
receiving such transcript and other papers as aforesaid, shall file the same and
docket the appeal; the plaintifff in the court below shall be plaintifff in the dis
trict court.

§ 124. II the appeal be taken ten days
or more before the first day of the first term of the appellate court appointed
to be held thereafter, such appeal shall be tried at such court unless continued
in the same manner as other actions pending therein are continued; if the ap
peal be taken within ten days next preceding such term of the court, no issue
of fact joined in such action shall be tried at such first term, unless upon the
written consent of both parties to the action; but it shall be competent for the
court to hear a motion to dismiss such appeal, or any other proper motion, or
to try any issue of law joined in such action, if both parties be present in per
son or by attorney; if the appeal be dismissed the cause shall be remanded to
the justice of the peace, to be thereafter proceeded in as if no appeal had been
taken; on receiving his fees in the case, the clerk of the court shall certify to
the justice the order of dismissal, and he shall remit with such order all the pa
pers returned by the justice on the appeal, except the transcript and undertak
ing; he shall also state the amount of his fees in the case, which shall be added
to the costs in the case before the justice, and collected with each [such] other
costs, and paid to the party advancing the same. 

§ 128. If any person, appealing from a
judgment rendered in his favor, shall not recover a greater sum than the amount
for which judgment was rendered, besides costs and the interest accruing thereon,
every such appellant shall pay the costs of such appeal. 
§ 129. When any appeal shall be dis
missed, or when judgment shall be entered in the district court against the ap
pellant, the surety in the undertaking shall be liable to the appellee for the whole
amount of the debt, costs and damages recovered against the a| pellant. 

§ 130. When an appeal taken to the district
court shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking or consummat
ing the same, the cause for quashing shall be stated in the order of the court,
and a transcript of such order shall be filed with p--h justice, who shall there
upon proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as if no appeal had been
taken. 
§ 131. In proceedings on appeal, when the surety
in the undertaking shall be insufficient, or such undertaking may be insufficient
in form or amount, it shall be lawful for the court, on motion, to order a Change
or renewal of such undertaking, and direct that the same be certified to the jus
tice from whose judgment the appeal was taken, or that it be filed in said court.
§ 132. An appeal may be taken from the final judg
ment of a justice of the peace in any case, except in cases hereinafter stated,
in which no appeal shall be allowed: First, On judgments rendered on confes
sion. Second, In jury trials, where neither party claims in his bill of particu
lars a sum exceeding twenty dollars. 

§ 132a. In appeals taken by the defendant
in actions for the forcible entry and detention, or forcible and unlawful deten
tion of real property, the undertaking on appeal shall be conditioned that the
appellant will not commit or suffer waste to be committed on the premises in con
troversy; and if, upon the further trial of the cause, judgment be rendered
against him, he will pay double the value of the use and occupation of the
property from the date of the undertaking until the delivery of the property,
pursuant to the judgment, and all damages and costs that may be awarded
against him. 

§ 133. When the term of office of
a justice shall expire between the date of the judgment and the time limited for
appeal, such justice may take the undertaking for appeal, at any time before he
has delivered his docket to his successor, and give the appealing party a trans
cript. After the delivery of the docket, the undertaking shall be given to his
successor, and it shall be his duty to give the transcript, and do and perform all
things required of his predecessor. 
§ 134. Any person against whom a judgment may
be rendered, under the provisions of this act, except as hereinafter excepted,
may have a stay of execution, for the several periods of time hereinafter men
tioned, by entering into an undertaking to the adverse party, within ten days
after the rendition of the judgment, with good and sufficient surety, resident of
the county, such as the justice shall approve, conditioned for the payment of
the amount of such judgment, interests and costs that may accrue, which un
dertaking shall be entered on the docket of the justice, and shall be signed by
the surety; and in case execution has been issued, it shall be immediately with
drawn by said justice. 
§ 135. The stay of execution hereby authorized shall
be graduated as follows, namely: First, On any judgment for twenty dollars
and under, thirty days. Second, On any judgment over twenty dollars and not
exceeding fifty dollars, sixty days. Third, On any judgment over fifty dollars
and not exceeding one hundred dollars, ninety days. Fourth, On any judgment
exceeding one hundred dollars, one hundred and twenty day*. 
§ 136. No stay of execution on judgments ren
dered in the following cases shall be allowed: First, On judgments rendered
against justices of the peace for refusing to pay over money by them collected
or received in their official capacity. Second, On judgments against justices for
not reporting all fines as required by law. Third, On any judgment rendered
against a constable for failing to make return, making a false return, or refus
ing to pay over money collected in his official capacity. Fourth, On judgments
against bail for the stay of execution. Fifth, Where judgment is rendered in
favor of bail who have been compelled by judgment to pay money on account
of their principal. Sixth, On judgments obtained by constables on undertakings
executed to them for the delivery of property. 

§ 136a. In cases where execution on
any judgment shall be stayed, as provided by sections 134 and 135 of said chapter 81, and such judgment shall not be paid or satisfied, the justice, after
the stay shall have expired, shall issue an execution on such judgment against
the judgment debtor and his surety, which execution shall be in the following
form:
County of , ss. The state of Kansas, to A. B., constable of , in said county, greet
ing: Whereas, C. D., on the day of , 187 —, in an action then pending before the un
dersigned, justice of the peace, recovered a judgment against E. F., for the sum of dollars, and
the further sum of dollars as costs of suit: And whereas, on the diy of , 187 —,
G. H., entered into an undertaking, as surety for the said E. F., for a stay of execution for
days, which time has now elapsed; and whereas, the said Judgment still remains unsatisfied: Now,
thereforee, you are hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels of the said C. D. [ E. F.,] you
cause the said judgment and costs to be satisfied as provided by law; and for want of sufficient
goods and chattels of the said C. D. [E. F.,] that you cause said judgment and costs to be satisfied
out of the goods and chattels of the said G. H., and you are hereby required to make a return of this
execution, with your certificate thereon, showing the manner in which you have executed the same,
within thirty days fron the time of your receipt hereof. Witness my hand at in said county,
this day of , 187—

§ 137. Execution for the
enforcement of a judgment before a justice of the peace may issue by the jus
tice before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, on
the application of the party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from
the entry of the judgment or the date of the last execution issued thereon.
§ 138. It shall be the duty of
the justice, if the case be not appealed, taken up on error, docketed in the dis
trict court, or bail has not been given for the stay of execution, at the expira
tion of ten days from the entry of the judgment, to issue execution without a
demand, and proceed to collect the judgment, unless otherwise directed by the
judgment creditor. 

§ 139. The execution must be di
rected to a constable of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the
judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and must bear date the day
of its delivery to the officer to be executed; it must intelligibly refer to the
judgment by stating the names of the parties, and the name of the justice be
fore whom, and of the county and township where, and the time when, it was
rendered; the amount of the judgment, and, if less than the whole is due, the
true amount due thereon. It must require the constable substantially as fol
lows:
First, If it be a case where the defendant cannot be arrested, it must direct
the officer to collect the amount of the judgment out of the personal property
of the debtor, and pay the same to the party entitled thereto.
Second, If it be a case where any of the judgment debtors are certified on the
docket as surety, it shall command that the money be made of the personal prop
erty of the principal debtor, and. for want thereof, of the personal property of
the surety. In such case, the personal property of the principal, subject to ex
ecution within the jurisdiction, shall be exhausted before any of the property of
the surety shall be taken in execution.
Third, If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested, in addition to
the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if sufficient property of the defendant,
subject to the execution, cannot be found to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest
the debtor and commit him to the jail of the county until he pays the judgment
or be discharged according to law, unless the execution be accompanied by an
order of arrest.
Fourth, It must, in all cases, direct the officer to make return of the execu
tion, and a certificate thereon, showing the manner in which he has executed
the same, in thirty days from the time of his receipt thereof. 

§ 140. Upon an execution of a judg
ment against debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons was not served,
the execution must contain a direction to collect the amount of the joint prop
erty of the person upon whom the summons was served, to be specified by name.
If such judgment be also such that the defendants are subject to arrest thereon,
the justice must further specify the names of those defendants served with the
summons, who may be arrested for the want of property. 
§ 141. A constable may, at his peril,
omit to arrest a debtor, or, after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the re
turn day, subject only to the liability for an escape, or for omitting to arrest, if
he fails to have either the money or the person of the debtor in custody at the
expiration of the thirty days. 
§ 142. It shall be lawful for the sheriff or
jailer receiving any person imprisoned on any execution issued in any civil pro
ceeding, at any time where there is no money in his hands to pay for the sus
tenance of such prisoner, to discharge him from prison. 
§ 143. The debtor, committed as herein provided,
may be held in prison ten days, and if he be a person without a family for which
he provides, one day in addition for every dollar over ten due on the execu
tion; or, if he have a family for which he provides, one day in addition for
every two dollars over twenty due on the execution. 
§ 144. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor that
he has a family, for which he provides, specifying by name one or more per
sons, members of such family, and the place of their residence, is sufficient evi
dence thereof to authorize his discharge by the jailer. 
§ 145. A constable is liable to a party in
whose favor an execution issued to him, for the amount thereof, in the follow
ing cases: First, Where he suffers thirty days to elapse without making a re
turn thereof to the justice, and paying to him or the party entitled, the money
oollected thereon by him. Second, When he willfully and carelessly omits to
levy on property within thirty days, or if the defendant be liable to be im
prisoned, then to arrest and commit him to the jail of the county within thirty
days. 

§ 146. All property taken in execution, under
the provisions of this act, shall be advertised for sale at four of the most public
places in the township where such property was seized, at least ten days previ
ous to the time appointed for such 6ale, which sale shall be held between the
hours of ten o'clock a. m., and four o'clock p. m., at the house or on the prem
ises where such property was taken, or at one of the most public places within
the township. 

§ 147. It shall not be lawful for any justice
of the peace who issued the execution, or for the constable holding the execu
tion, to purchase, either directly or indirectly, any property sold on such execu
tion; and any justice or constable who shall offend against the provisions of
this section, shall forfeit and pay for every such offense, any sum not exceeding
one handred dollars nor less than five dollars, to be recovered by civil action
in the name of the state of Kansas, before any court having jurisdiction thereof,
for the use of the county where such offense was committed, and shall, more
over, be liable to the action of the party injured thereby. 
§ 148. When any cattle or live stock
shall be taken in execution, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace who
issued the execution, or other justice charged with the duty of collecting the
judgment whereon such execution issued, to allow the' constable, for keeping of
the same, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed and collected as other costs
in the suit. 
§ 149. When a constable shall levy on and sell any
goods and chattels, he shall make out and annex to his return to the execution,
in virtue of which such sale was made, a true inventory of all such property and
of each article thereof, and the price at which the same was sold; and for each
and every neglect to return a true and accurate schedule or inventory of prop
erty sold, or remaining unsold for want of bidders, or other just cause, and, if
sold, the price at which the same was sold, each and every constable guilty of
such neglect shall forfeit and pay, on conviction thereof, any sum not exceed
ing one hundred dollars, to be recovered by action in the name of the state of
Kansas, for the use of the party injured thereby, to be prosecuted before any
court having cognizance thereof. 
§ 150. Where a constable shall
have levied on any goods and chattels which remain unsold for want of bid
ders, or other just cause, it shall be his duty to return with the execution a
schedule of all such goods and chattels; and the justice shall, unless otherwise
directed by the party for Whom such execution issued, or his agent, immediately
thereafter issue an order, thereby commanding any constable to whom the
same may be directed or delivered, to expose such property to sale; which sale
and the proceeding thereon shall be the same as if such property had been sold
on the original execution. 
§ 151. Any constable having levied on goods and
chattels, of which he permits the party against whom the execution issued to re
tain the possession, is hereby authorized to take such security for his own indem
nity as he may require, that such property shall be delivered at the time and
place appointed for the sale thereof. 

§ 152. If the constable, by virtue of any at
tachment or execution, shall levy the same on any goods and chattels claimed
by any person other than the defendant, or be requested by the plaintifff to levy
on any such goods and chattels, the officer may require the plaintifff to give him
an undertaking, with good and sufficient securities to pay all costs and damages
he may sustain by reason of the detention or sale of such property; and until
such undertaking shall be given, the officer may refuse to proceed as against
iuch property. 

§ 152a. When a constable shall levy on or
attach property, claimed by any person or persons, other than the party against
whom the execution or attachment issued, the claimant or claimants shall give
three days' notice, in writing, to the attachment or execution creditor, his attor
ney, or his agent, or if not found within the county, then such notice shall be
served by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode in such county, of
the time and place of the trial of the right to such property, which trial shall be
had before some justice of the township, at least one day prior to the time ap
pointed for the sale of such property. 

§ 152J. If, on the trial, the justice shall be satis
fied, from the proof, that the property, or any part thereof, belongs to the claim
ant or claimants, such justice shall render judgment against the party in whose
favor such execution or attachment issued for the costs, and issue execution
therefore, and shall, moreover, give a written order to the constable, who levied
on, or who may be charged with the duty of selling such property, directing him
to restore the same, or so much thereof as may have been found to belong to
such claimant or claimants: Provided, That either party may at, or before the
time of trial call for a jury, and in that case, the mode of drawing, and all pro
ceedings there, shall be conducted in all respects as is now provided for trial by
jury, before justices of the peace. 

§ 152c. But if the claimant or claimants fail to establish
his or their right to such property, or to any part thereof, the justice shall ren
der judgment against such claimant or claimants for the costs that have accrued
on account of such trial, and issue execution therefore; and the constable shall
not be liable to the claimant or claimants for the property so taken. 

§ 153. In all cases where any
lands may have been let, reserving rent in kind, and when the crops or emble
ments growing or grown thereon shall be levied on or attached by virtue of any
execution, attachment or other process against the landlord or tenant, the inter
est of such landlord or tenant, against whom such process was not issued, shall
not be affected thereby, but the same may be sold, subject to the claim or in
terest of the landlord or tenant against whom such process did not issue. 

§ 154. In cases where the constable shall make
it appear, to the satisfaction of the justice, that he has been deprived of an op
portunity of levying an execution within the time prescribed by this act, or other
wise prevented from making the whole of the money therein required to be made,
and shall make return to the justice who issued the same to that effect, such
justice is hereby authorized and required to issue further process of execution
for the amount or balance remaining unsatisfied, which shall be served and re
turned in all respects as other executions are under this act. 

§ 155. When an execution issued by a justice of
the peace shall have been returned unsatisfied, the judgment creditor, his agent
or attorney, may file an affidavit with the justice, setting forth that he has good
reason to and does believe that any person or corporation, to be named, and
within- the county, has property of the defendant, or is indebted to him, and
thereupon the justice shall issue an order to such garnishee to appear before
him, on a day to be named, and answer such questions as may be propounded
to him by the judgment creditor touching the property of the judgment debtor
in his possession or under his control, and the amount owing by him to the judg
ment debtor, whether due or not 

§ 156. Such order shall be issued in the
same manner as a summons, and the subsequent proceedings upon such order
shall be the same and have the same effect as proceedings against a garnishee
in case of attachment, as near as may be. 
§ 157. The earnings of the debtor for his
personal services, at any time within three months next preceding the issuing
of an execution, cannot be applied to the payment of his debts, when it is made
to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are neces
sary for the maintenance of a family supported wholly or partly by bis labor.

§ 157a. That upon the return of an exe
cution issued from any justice's court, and returned unsatisfied by the constable
to whom it is issued, or when execution has been withheld by order of plaintifff
for a period of ninety days, the justice may, on his own motion, or on applica
tion of any party interested in the costs of the action, issue execution against
the plaintifff in said action for the cost made by said plaintifff. 
§ 158. Any justice,
within his proper county, shall have power to inquire, in the manner hereinafter
directed, as well against those who make unlawful and forcible entry into lands
and tenements, and detain the same, as against those who, having a lawful and
peaceable entry into land or tenements, unlawfully and by force hold the same;
and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that an unlawful and forcible entry has
been made, and that the same lands and tenements are held by force, or that
the same, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then said justice shall cause
the party complaining to have restitution thereof. 

§ 159. Proceedings under this article may
be had in all cases against tenants holding over their terms; in sales of real es
tate on executions, orders, or other judicial process, when the judgment debtor
was in possession at the time of the rendition of the judgment or decree, by
virtue of which such sale was made; in sales by executors, administrators,
guardians, and on partition, where any of the parties to the partition were in
possession at the commencement of the suit, after such sales, so made, on exe
cution or otherwise, shall have been examined by the proper court, and the
same, by said court, adjudged legal; and in cases where the defendant is a set
tler or occupier of lands and tenements, without color of title, and to which the
complainant has the right of possession. This section is not to be construed as
limiting the provisions of the first preceding section. 

§ 160. Judgments, either before a justice or
in the district court, in actions brought under this article, shall not be a bar to
any after action brought by either party. 
§ 161. It shall be the duty of
the party desiring to commence an action under this article, to notify the ad
verse party to leave the premises, for the possession of which the action is about
to be brought, which notice shall be served at least three days before com
mencing the action, by leaving a written copy with the defendant, or at his
usual place of abode, if he cannot be found; such notice may also be served by
leaving a copy thereof with some person over twelve years of age, on the prem
ises described in the notice. 

§ 162. The summons shall
not issue herein until the plaintifff shall have filed his complaint in writing, under
oath, with the justice, which shall particularly describe the premises so entered
upon or detained, and shall set forth either an unlawful and forcible entry and
detention, or an unlawful and forcible detention after a peaceful or lawful entry
of the described premises. 
§ 163. The summons shall be issued and directed, shall
state the cause of complaint, and the time and place of trial, and shall be served
and returned as in other cases. It may also be served by leaving a copy thereof
with some person over twelve years of age, on the premises sought to be recov
ered. Such service shall be at least three days before the day of trial appointed
by the justice. 

§164. If the defendant does not appear in accordance
with the requisitions of the summons, and it shall have been properly served,
the justice shall try the cause as though he was present. 
§ 165. No continuance shall be granted for a
longer period than eight days, unless the defendant applying therefore shall give
an undertaking to the adverse party, with good and sufficient surety, to be ap
proved by the justice, conditioned for the payment of all damages, and double
the rent that may accrue, if judgment be rendered against the defendant. 
§ 166. If the suit be not continued,
place of trial changed, or neither party demand a jury upon the return day of the
summons, the justice shall try the cause; and if, after hearing the evidence, he
shall conclude that the complaint is not true, he shall enter judgment against the
plaintifff for costs; if he find the complaint true, he shall render a general judg
ment against the defendant, and in favor of the plaintifff, for restitution of premises
and costs of suit; if he find the complaint true in part, he shall render a judg
ment for the restitution of such part only, and costs shall be taxed as the justice
shall deem just and equitable. 
§ 167. If a jury be demanded by either
party, the proceedings until the empaneling thereof shall be in all respects as
in other cases. The jury shall be sworn or affirmed to well and truly try and de
termine whether the complaint of (naming the plaintifff), about to be laid before
them, is true, according to the evidence. If the jury shall find the complaint
true, they shall render a general verdict of guilty against the defendant; if not
true, then a general verdict of not guilty, if true in part, then a verdict setting
forth the facts they find true. 
§ 168. The justice shall enter the ver
dict upon his docket, and render such judgment in the action, as if the factsauthorizing
the finding of such verdict had been found to be true by himself.

§ 169. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in
cases under this head, upon questions of law, may be taken by either party,
whether tried by jury or otherwise. 
§ 170. Where a judgment of restitution shall be en
tered by a justice, he shall, at the request of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
issue a writ of execution thereon, which shall be in the following form, as near
as practicable:
"The state of Kansas, county. The state of Kansas to any constable of county:
Whereas, in a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or the forcible detention, as the
case may be), of the following-described premises, to wit: , lately tried before me, wherein
was plaintifff, and was defendant, judgment was rendered on the day of ,
A. D. , that the plaintifff have restitution of said premises; and also that he recover costs in the
sum of : You, thereforee, are hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith re
moved from said premises, and the said plaintifff to have restitution of the same; also, that you levy
of the goods and chattels of the said defendant, and make the costs aforesaid, and all accruing costs,
and of this writ make legal service and due return. Witness my hand this day of ,
A. D. . A. B., Justice of the Peaee."
— [G. S. 1868, ch. 81, §170, Oct. 31.

§ 171. The officer shall, within ten days
after receiving the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintifff to the pos
session of the premises, and shall levy and collect the costs and make return,
as upon other executions. If the officer shall receive a notice from the justice
that the proceedings have been stayed by proceedings in error, he shall imme
diately delay all further proceedings upon the execution; and if the premises
have been restored to the plaintifff, he shall immediately place the defendant in
the possession thereof, and return the writ with his proceedings and costs taxed
thereon. 

§ 172. A justice of the peace may appoint
a constable or constables for special purpose, either in civil or criminal cases,
whenever such appointment may become necessary, in the following cases:
Where there is no constable in the township; in the case of disability of one of
the regular constables in the township; where the constable therein is a party
to the suit; when, from the pressure of official business, the constables therein
are not enabled to perform the duties required by the office. The justice mak
ing the appointment shall make a memorandum thereof on his docket, and shall
require the person appointed to take an oath, as in other cases. 

§ 173. The person bo appointed by the justice,
after taking such oath, shall hare the same authority, be subject to the same
penalties, and entitled to the same fees, as other constables. 
§ 174. Such justice shall stand as surety,
and shall be in that character liable, he and his sureties, for any neglect of duty
or any illegal proceedings on the part of such constables so by him appointed.

§ 175. All constables shall be ministerial of
ficers in justices' courts in their respective counties, and civil and criminal proc
ess may be executed by them throughout the county, under the restrictions and
provisions of the law. They may appoint one or more deputies, who may per
form the same duties as their principals, and such principals shall be responsi
ble, upon their official bond, for the acts of said deputies. 
§ 176. It shall be the duty of every constable to serve all
warrants, writs, precepts, executions and other process to him directed and de
livered, and, in all respects whatever, to do and perform all things pertaining
to the office of constable. 
§ 177. In discharging their duties, constables may call
to their aid the power of the county, or such assistance as may be necessary.

§ 178. It shall be the duty of every constable to make
due return of all process, to him directed and delivered, at the proper office and
on the proper return day thereof; or, if the judgment be docketed in the dis
trict court, or appealed, upon which he has an execution, on notice to return
the execution, stating thereon such fact. 

§ 179. It shall be the duty of every constable, on the
receipt of any writ or other process (subpoenas excepted ), to note thereon the
time of receiving the same; he shall, also, state in his return on the same, the
time and manner of executing it. 
§ 180. No constable shall make a return on any
process of "not found" as to any defendant, unless he shall have been once,
at least, at the usual place of residence of the defendant, if such defendant have
any in the county. 
§ 181. In serving process, either civil or criminal,
and in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise restricted by law, the au
thority of a constable shall extend throughout the county in which he may be
appointed; and in executing and serving process issued by a justice of the
peace, he shall have and exercise the same authority and powers over goods
and chattels and the persons of parties as is granted by law to a sheriff or cor
oner, under like process issued from courts of record. 

§ 182. When it shall become the duty
of the constable to take the body of any person to the jail of the county, he
shall deliver to the sheriff or the jailer a certified copy of the execution, com
mitment or other process, whereby he holds such person in custody, and return
the original to the justice who issued the same, which copy shall be sufficient
authority to the sheriff or jailer to keep the prisoner in jail until discharged by
due course of law. 
§ 183. Constables shall pay over to the party
entitled thereto all money received by them in their official capacity, if demand
be made by such party, his agent or attorney, at any time before he returns the
writ upon which he has received it; if not paid over by that time, he shall pay
the same to the justice when he returns the writ. 
§ 184. Constables shall be liable to ten
per cent, penalty upon the amount of damages for which judgment may be en
tered against them for failing to make return, making a false return, or failing
to pay over money by them collected or received in their official capacity; and
such judgment must include, in addition to the damages and costs, the penalty
herein provided. 

§ 185. The provisions of an act entitled "An act
to establish a code of civil procedure," which are, in their nature, applicable to
the jurisdiction and proceedings before justices, and in respect to which no spe
cial provision is made by statute, are applicable to proceedings before justices
of the peace. 

§ 186. When a person intending to bring
an action before a justice of the peace is a non-resident of the county in which
he intends to commence such action, the justice shall, previous to his issuing
process, and in all other cases the justice may, either before or after the issuing
process, require the plaintifff to give security for the costs of suit, which may be
done by depositing a sum of money deemed by the justice to be sufficient todischarge
the costs that may accrue in the action, or by giving an undertaking,
with surety approved by the justice, payable to the adverse party, for the pay
ment of all costs that may accrue in the action; where security is required after
suit brought, if the order for security be not complied with, the justice may dis
miss the action at the costs of the plaintifff. 

§ 187. If
any plaintifff or plaintifffs, after commencing an action before a justice, in the
county in which he or they reside, remove out of the county, the justice may re
quire such plaintifff or plaintifffs to deposit a sum equal to the costs that have
accrued, and that probably will accrue; or require, in place thereof, that such
party give sufficient surety for all costs which have accrued, or which may ac
crue in the action; and in default to do either, shall dismiss the action. 
§ 188. Every justice of the peace must keep
a book, denominated a docket, which shall be furnished by the proper township, in
which must be entered, by him, the proper title of every action in which the writ is
served, or when the parties voluntarily appear; the date of the writ; the time
of its return; and if an order to arrest the defendant, or attach property, was
made, such fact must be stated, together with the affidavit upon which such order
was made; the filing of the bill of particulars of either party; which of the par
ties, if either of them, appear at the trial; every adjournment, stating upon'
whose application, whether on oath or consent, and to what time. When trial
by jury is demanded, the demand must be stated, and by whom made; the names
of the jurors selected, and the time appointed for the trial; the names of the
jurors who appear, and those sworn; the names of all witnesses sworn, and at
whose request; the exceptions to the ruling of the justice on questions of law,
taken by either party; the verdict of the jury, and when received. If the jury
disagree, and are discharged, the fact must be stated. The judgment of the
justice, specifying the items of costs included, and the time when rendered; the
issuing of the execution, and orders to sell, when issued, and to whom the re
newals thereof, if any, were made; the return, and when made; and a state
ment of any money paid to the justice, and by whom; the giving of a transcript,
to be filed in the clerk's office, and when given; if appeal be taken, the under
taking, and the time of entering into the same, and by which party taken; the
satisfaction of the judgment, and the time of satisfying the same. 

§ 189. The several particulars in the last section speci
fied, must be entered under the title of the action to which they relate, and at
the time when they occurred, except that the bill of exceptions in regard to the
ruling on questions of law or evidence need not be entered until after the judg
ment, unless required by the justices, or one of the parties. Such entries in a
justice's docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor
in office, shall be evidence to prove the facts stated therein. 
§ 190. Each justice must keep an
alphabetical index to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the
parties to each judgment, with reference to the page of the entry. The names
of the plaintifffs must be entered in the index, in the alphabetical order of the
first letter of the family name. He shall number the cases progressively upon
his docket, and he shall correspondingly number the papers in each case;
he shall keep the entire papers in each action together, and in packages of a
proper and convenient size, and in the order in which the cases are numbered
on his docket. 
§ 191. It is the duty of every jus
tice, upon the expiration of his term of office, to deposit with his successor his
official docket, as well his own as those of his predecessors, which may be in
his custody, together with all files and papers, laws and statutes pertaining to
his office, there to be kept as public records and property. If there be no suc
cessor elected and qualified, or if the office becomes vacant by death, removal
from the township, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and qualified,
the docket and papers in possession of such justice must be deposited with the
nearest justice in the township, if there be any; and if there be none, then with
the nearest in the county, there to be kept until a successor shall be chosen and
qualified, then to be delivered over to such successor, on request 

§ 192. A justice receiving by succession or on deposit
any such docket, papers and laws, shall, if requested, give a receipt therefore to
the person from whom he receives the same. 
§ 193. The justice with whom
the docket of another may be deposited, either during a vacancy or as his suc
cessor, is hereby authorized, while having such docket legally in his possession,
to issue execution on any judgment there entered and unsatisfied, and not dock
eted in the district court, in the same manner and with the same effect as the
justice by whom the judgment was rendered might have done, to take bail in
appeal, to issue certified transcripts of judgments on such docket, and proceed
in all cases in like manner as if the same had been originally had or instituted
before him. 
§ 194. When two or more justices are
equally entitled to be deemed the successor in office of a justice, the county com
missioners shall designate which justice is to be deemed the successor of the
justice going out of office, or whose office has become vacant, and shall enter a
certificate in the last docket of the justice going out of office, or whose office is
vacant, of their determination, before the same is delivered to such successor.

§ 195. In case of sickness or other dis
ability, or necessary absence of a justice at the time appointed for trial, another
justice of the same township may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall,
thereupon, become vested with the power, for the time being, of the justice be
fore whom the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of the
proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be made in the
docket of the justice before whom the writ was returnable. If the case be ad
journed, the justice before whom the summons was returnable, must resume ju
risdiction. 
§ 196. The summons, execution, and every
other paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up, without a blank to be
filled by another; otherwise it is void. 
§ 197. A justice, at the re
quest of a party, and on being satisfied that it is expedient, may specially depute
any discreet person of suitable age, and not interested in the action, to serve a
summons or execution, with or without an order to arrest the defendant or to
attach property. Such deputation must be in writing on the process. 
§ 198. The person so deputed has the author
ity of constable in relation to the service, execution and return of such process,
and is subject to the same obligations; bnt there can be no fee for his services
taxed in the bill of costs. 

§ 199. The justice may punish, as for a contempt,
persons guilty of the following acts, and no others: Disorderly, contemptuous
or insclent behavior toward the justice, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceeding; willful resistance, in the presence of the
justice, to the execution of a lawful order or process made or issued by him.

§ 200. A warrant of arrest may be is
sued by such justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested and brought
before the justice, when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse
must be given. The justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him
of the offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or imprisonment, or both;
such fine not to exceed twenty dollars, and such imprisonment ten days. 
§ 201. The conviction, specifying par
ticularly the offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered on his docket;
a warrant of commitment to the jail of the county, until the fine be paid, or for
the term of imprisonment, may then be issued. Such warrant must contain a
transcript of the entry in the docket, and the same must be executed by any
constable to whom it may be given, and by the jailor of the county. 
§ 202. Attorneys at law, duly admitted to practice
as such, may appear for and represent any party before a justice, to the same
extent and with the same effect as in the district court. When an attorney ap
pears for a party, the justice shall note the fact of such appearance on his docket
in the case in which the attorney appears, which shall have the same effect a*
an appearance of record in the district court. 
§ 203. It shall not be lawful for any
justice of the peace to purchase any judgment upon any docket in his possession;
and for so doing, for every such offense, such justice shall forfeit and pay a sum
not more than fifty dollars nor less than ten dollars, to be recovered by action
before any court having jurisdiction thereof, and when collected, shall be paid
into the treasury of the county where such offense was committed. 
§ 204. The provisions of this act do not apply
to proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect. They shall be
conducted to final judgment and determination in all respects as if it had not
been adopted. 
§ 205. All process, provided for by this
act, may be directed to the sheriff of the county, in the discretion of the justice,
and be by the sheriff served and returned in the same manner as provided for
in cases where the same is issued to the constable. 
§ 206. That "An act regulating the jurisdiction and
procedure before justices of the peace, and the duties of constables in civil
cases," approved February 10, 1859, and all acts amendatory and supplemental
thereto, be and the same are hereby repealed. 
§ 207. This act shall take effect and be in force
from and after its publication in the statute book.

