§ 1. Civil cases defined. Civil cases arc actions or special pro
ceedings.
§ 2. Civil actions defined. A civil action is a demand, l,y
pleadings, in a court of justice, for the enforcement of an alleged
right of a plaintifff against a defendant. ("Action" further defined,
sec. 732-34.)
§ 3. Special proceedings. Every other civil case is a special
proceeding.
§ 4 [1]. Form of action. There 6hall be but one form of action.
§ o [3], Kinds of actions. Actions are ordinary or equitable.
§ G [4, 5]. When action must be equitable—when ordinary.
Unless otherwise provided by this Code or other statute—
1. Actions of which courts of chancery had jurisdiction before
the first day of August, 1851, may be equitable; and actions of
which such jurisdiction was exclusive must be equitable.
2. All other actions must be ordinary.
§ 7 [6]. Action may be brought on lost or mutilated writ
ing. An ordiuary or equitable action may be brought upon a bill
of exchange, or a note or other obligation, or upon an indorse
ment or assignment thereof, which, or upon a judgment the record
of which, is lost, destroyed, mutilated, or defaced, without fraud or.
the part of the plaintifff, or of those under whom he claims. But
no action shall be brought upon au instrument transferable by deliv
ery, merely, which is alleged to be lost, destroyed, mutilated, or
defaced, without a previous tender by the plaintifff to the defendant,
if his name and place of residence be known to the plaintifff, of an
indemnifying bond, with good surety ; nor shall judgment be given
agaiust the defendant, in such action, until such bond is given, with
good surety approved by the court. (Form of bond, page 404.)
§ 8 [7]. Error as to form of action may be corrected. An
error of the plaintifff as to the form of action shall be cause, not
for the abatement or dismissal of it, but merely for a change into
the proper proceedings by an amendment of the pleadings and a
transfer of the action to the proper docket.
§ 9 [8]. How error corrected. The error mentioned in the last
section may be corrected by the plaintifff without motion, at any
time before the defendant answers, or afterward by leave of court.
§ 10 [9]. 1. How and when action may be transferred from
one docket to the other. The defendant, by motion made when
he answers, may have an equitable action transferred to the ordinary
docket, if, according to the provisions of section 6, it should have
been an ordinary action, and if the answer present a defense of
which he is entitled to a jury-trial.
2. The defendant, by motion made when or before he answers,
may have an ordinary action transferred to the equity docket, if,
according to the provisions of section 6, it should have been an
equitable action.
3. The court may, without motion, order the transfer of an
action from one docket to another if either party be entitled to
such transfer; Or may try the action, or render judgment therein
by defaalt,unless a party entitled to a transfer move therefore.
§ 11 [10]. How ordinary action may be transferred to equity.
In an ordinary action properly commenced as such —
1. If there be several issues all of which were, before the first
day of August, 1851, cognizable in chancery, though none were
exclusively so, either party may, by motion, have the case trans
ferred to the equity docket.
2. Either party may, by motion, have the case transferred to
the equity docket for the trial of any issue which, before the said
day, was exclusively cognizable in chancery.
3. If there be an issue which was not cognizable in chancery,
and an issue which was exclusively cognizable in chancery,
before the said day, the plaintifff may have the former issue
tried before the latter is disposed of.
4. If there be an issue which was not cognizable in chancery,
and an issue which was cognizable in chancery, but not exclu
sively so, before the said day, the case shall not be transferred
to the equity docket without consent of the parties.
§12. How equitable action may be transferred to ordinary.
In an equitable action, properly comm'enced as such, either party may,
by motion, have the case transferred to the ordinary docket for the
trial of any issue concerning which he is entitled to a jury trial; but
either party may require every equitable issue to be disposed of before
such transfer.
§ 13. Transfer of actions from one court to another. In
counties wherein the jurisdiction of circuit courts is vested in differ
ent courts—
1. The provisions of this title, concerning transfers to the
proper docket, apply to transfers to the proper court.
2. Upon an order for the transfer of an action from one court
to another, the papers in the action and a copy of the order shall
be delivered by the clerk of the court which makes the order to
the clerk of the court to which the action is transferred; and it
shall proceed as if it had been brought in the latter court.
(Transfer of attachments, sec. 2 10.)
§ 14 [11]. Defendant may be required to give bond before
ordinary action transferred. In an ordinary action, properly
commenced as such, if the defendant be entitled to the transfer
of one or more issues to the equity docket, and move for such
transfer, the plaintifff may file his affidavit that he verily believes
he will succeed in the action, and that the collection of his claim, after
judgment, will be endangered by delay arising from such transfer;
and if such affidavit be filed, the court shall not grant the motion of
the defendant to transfer, except upon condition that the defendant
execute a bond, with good surety, approved by the court, that he will
pay any judgment rendered in favor of the plaintifff: Provided, That
no such bond shall be required if the trial of the case or issue trans
ferred take place during the term at which the transfer is made, nor
until all issues not transferred are tried or disposed of in favor of
the plaintifff. {Form of affidavit, ,page 405. Form of bond, page 403.)
§ 15 [12]. Waiver of error as to form of action. An error as
to the kind of proceedings adopted in the action is waived by failure
to move for its correction at the time and in the manner prescribed in
this chapter; and errors in the decisions of the court, on any of the
motions named in this chapter, are waived, unless excepted to at the
time—which may be done by the clerk noting, at the end of such
decision, words of the following import: "To which decision the
plaintifff (or defendant) excepts." (See further as to exceptions,
sec. 33.3.)
§ 16 [13]. Provisions of Code apply to all civil actions. The
provisions of this Code apply to all civil actions, unless the contrary
appears.
§ 17 [14]. When ordinary judgment corrected in equity. A
judgment obtained in an ordinary action shall not be annulled nor
modified by any order in an equitable action, except for a defense
which arises or is discovered aitcr rendition of the judgment. But
such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim which was
not, though it might have been, used as a defense by way of set-off' or
counterclaim in the action. (As to how judgments vacated and modi
fied, secs. 513 to 5'24.)
TITLE III.
PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.
CHAPTER I
Parties to Actions Generally.
{ 18. Action must be in name of real party in interest,
i 19. Action by assignee of thing in action.
I 20. In whose name prosecuted if claim assigned after action commenced.
{ 21. Action by fiduciary or person authorized by statute.
\ 22. Interested persons may be joined as plaintifffs.
\ 23. Interested person may be made defendant.
\ 24. Persons united in interest must be made parties.
\ 25. One or more parties may sue or defend for all.
\ 26. Action against persons severally liable on contract.
\ 27. Action against persons jointly bound on contract.
\ 28. Court may require new parties to be made.
\ 29. Claimant of property in controversy may be made party.
§ 18 [30]. Action must be in name of real party in interest.
Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in
interest, except as provided in section 21.
§ 19 [31]. Action by assignee of thing in action. In the case
of an assignment of a thing in action, the action by the assignee is
without prejudice to any discount, set-off' or defense now allowed;
and if the assignment be not authorized by statute the assignor
must be a party, as plaintifff or defendant. This section does not
apply to bills of exchange, nor to promissory notes placed upon the
footing of bills of exchange, nor to common orders or checks. ( When
assignec required to secure costs, sec. 619.)
% 20 [32]. In whose name prosecuted if claim assigned after
action commenced. If the right of the plaintifff be transferred or
assigned during the pendency of the actioD, it may be continued in
his name; or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer or
assignment is made to be substituted in the action, proper orders
being made as to security for the costs.
§ 21 [33]. Action by fiduciary or person authorized by
statute. A personal representative, guardian, curator, committee ot
a person of unsound mind, trustee of an express trust, a person with
whom or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another,
a receiver appointed by a court, the assignee of a bankrupt, or a person
expressly authorized by statute to do so, may bring an action without
joining with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. ( Who
is " Personal representative" Sec. 732-17.)
§ 22 [34]. Interested persons may be joined as plaintifffs.
All persons having an interest in the subject of an action and in
obtaining the relief demanded may be joined as plaintifffs, unless it
is otherwise provided in this Code.
§ 23 [35]. Interested person may be made defendant. Any
person may be made a defendant who claims an interest in the con
troversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is a necessary party to a
complete determination of the question involved in the action.
§ 24 [36]. Persons united in interest must be made parties.
Parties who are united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or
defendants; but if the consent of one who should be joined as plaintifff
can not be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason being
stated in the petition.
§ 25 [37]. One or more parties may sue or defend for all. If
the question involve a common or general interest of many persons,
or if the parties be numerous and it is impracticable to bring all of
them before the court within a reasonable time, one or more may
sue or defend for the benefit of all.
§ 26 [38]. Action against persons severally liable on con
tract. Persons severally liable upon the same contract, and parties
to bills of exchange, to promissory notes placed upon the footing of
bills of exchange, or to common orders and checks, and sureties on
the same or separate instruments, may all or any of them, or the
representatives of such as may have died, be included in the same
action at the plaintifff's option. (Judgment against secs. 370, 373 ;
when can not be rendered, sec. 80.)
§ 27 [39]. Action against persons jointly bound on contract.
If two or more persons be jointly bound by contract, the action thereon
may be brought against all or any of them, at the plaintifff's option.
If any of the persons so bound be dead, the action may be brought
against any or all of the survivors with the representatives of all or any
of the decedents, or against the latter or any of them. If all the
persons so bound be dead, the action may be brought against the repre
sentatives of all or of any of them. An action or judgment against
any one or more of several persons jointly bound shall not be a bar to
proceedings against the others. (Judgment against, secs. 370, 373;
when can not be rendered, sec. 80.)
§ 28 [40, 400]. Court may require new parties to be made.
The court may determine any controversy between parties before it,
if it can do so without prejudice to others ; if it can not do so, it must
require such other persons to be made parties, or must dismiss the
action without prejudice. ( When court may dismiss action, sec. 371-2.)
§ 29 [41, 257]. Claimant of property in controversy may be
made party. In an action or proceeding for the recovery of real or
personal property, or for the subjection thereof to a demand of the
plaintifff under an attachment or other lien, any person claiming a right
to, or interest in, the property or its proceeds, may, before payment of
the proceeds to the plaintifff, file, in the action, his verified petition,
stating his claim and controverting that of the plaintifff; whereupon
the court may order him to be made a defendant; and upon that being
done, his petition shall be treated as his answer. But if he be a non
resident he must give security for costs. (Claimant of attached prop
erty to give information, sec. 220; see also, sec. 30.)
CHAPTER II.
Parties to Certain Actions.
\ 30. New party may be made upon affidavit of defendant.
| 31. Provisions of section 30 apply to officer who is sued.
\ 32. Plaintiff in writ may be substituted as defendant in action against officer.
\ 33. Action by tenant to recover properly distrained.
§ 30 [42]. New party may be made upon affidavit of defend
ant. Upon affidavit of a defendant before answer, in an action upon
contract, or for the recovery of personal property, that a person who
is not a party to the action, without collusion with him, makes a
claim to the subject of the action, and that the affiant is ready to pay
or dispose thereof as the court may direct, the court may make an
order for the safe-keeping of the subject of the action, or for its pay
ment or deposit in court, or for its delivery to such person as the
court may direct, and an order requiring such alleged claimant to
appear in a reasonable time and maintain or relinquish his claim
against the defendant, and, in the meantime, stay the proceeding.
If such alleged claimant, being served with a copy of the order, fail
to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to
the subject of the action against the defendant therein. If he appear
he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the action, in lieu
of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability
to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action
upon his compliance with the order of the court for the payment,
deposit, or delivery thereof. (Provisions concerning deposit in court,
secs. 303, 304.)
§ 31 [43]. Provisions of section 30 applicable to officer wh«
is sued. The provisions of section 30 shall be applicable to aii
action against a sheriff or other officer for the recovery of persona,
property taken by him under execution or distress warrant, or fo\
the proceeds of such property so taken and sold by him. And the
defendant in such action shall be entitled to the benefit of those
provisions against the party in whose favor the execution or distress
warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which
he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of
which, or its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken under such
process.
§ 32 [44]. Plaintiff in writ maybe substituted as defendant
in action against officer. In an action against a sheriff or other
officer for the recovery of property taken under an execution or dis
tress warrant the court may, upon the application of the defendant
and of the party in whose favor the execution or distress warrant is
issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the defendant, security
for the costs being given.
§ £3 [45]. Action by tenant to recover property distrained.
An action to recover the possession of specific personal property
taken under a distress warrant, if it be brought by the tenant, or his
assignee or under-tenant, may be against the party who sued out the
warrant ; and the property claimed in such action may, under the
order for its delivery, be taken from the officer who seized it if he
have no other claim to hold it than that derived from the warrant.
The indorsement of a levy on the property, made upon the warrant
by the officer holding it, shall be a sufficient taking of the property
to sustain the action against the party who sued out the warrant.
(How order of delivery obtained, sec. 181.)
§ 34 [49 to 52]. 1. Actions by and against married women.
In actions between husband and wife ; in actions concerning her
separate property ; and, in actions concerning her general property
in which he refuses to unite, she may sue or be sued alone.
2. In all other actions by or against a wife she and her hus
band must join or be joined as plaintifffs or defendants.
3. She may defend an action against her and her husband for
herself, and for him also if he fail to defend.
4. If a husband desert his wife, she may bring or defend for
him any action which he might bring or defend, and shall have
the powers and rights with reference thereto which he would
have had but for such desertion.
5. If a female party to an action marry, her husband may be
made a party by a motion, causing the fact to be stated upon the
record ; and the action shall not be delayed by reason of the
marriage.
6. But if a wife be of unsound mind, or imprisoned, the
actions mentioned in subsections 1 , 3, and 4, of this section, must
be prosecuted or defended by her committee or curator, if she
have one ; and, if she have none, must be prosecuted by her
next friend, or defended by her guardian ad litem. (As to service
of notice, sec. 639.)
§ 35 [53, 58]. Actions by infants, prisoners and persons of
unsound mind. Excepting married women —
1. The action of a person who is under disability must be
brought by his guardian, curator, or committee, if he have one
residing in this State, unless it be against his guardian, curator,
or committee ; or unless said guardian, curator, or committee
refuse to sue, in which case he must be made a defendant.
2. The action of an adult, who is imprisoned in or out of this
State, and who has uo curator residing herein, or his action
against his curator, may be brought by him, or, with his consent,
by his next friend.
3. The action of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind,
who resides in this State, and who has no guardian, curator, or
committee residing herein, or whose guardian, curator, or com
mittee refuses to sue, or his action against his guardian, curator,
or committee may be brought by his next friend.
4. The action of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind,
who resides in a foreign country, and who has a guardian,
,curator, or committee residing therein, maybe brought by such
guardian, curator, or committee, or by his next friend.
§ 36 [55, 60, 63]. Defense by infants, prisoners and persons
of unsound mind. Excepting married women, if a defendant, who
is under disability and who is summoned in this State, have a
defense—
1. That of an infant or person of unsound mind must be made
by his guardian or committee, or by a guardian ad litem.
2. That of an adult prisoner in this or any other State must
be made by his curator or by an attorney employed by him, or
by a guardian ad litem.
3. No judgment shall be rendered against an infant—other
than & feme covert —nor against a person of unsound mind, who
is summoned in this State, until the regular guardian, or com
mittee, or guardian ad litem, of such defendant, shall have made
defense, or have filed a report stating, that, after a careful exam
ination of the case, he is unable to make defense. His report,
that he can not make a defense, must be filed on or before the
day for making defense, unless, for cause shown, the court
extend the time ; and failure to file such report, as required
hereby, or by the court, shall be punished as a contempt.
{When defense must be filed, sec. 102; judgment before filed,
vacated, secs. 617, 619; time allowed infant to vacate, sec. 391.)
§ 37 1 [53, 58]. Who may sue as next friend—liability for
costs. No person shall sue as next friend unless he reside in this
State and be free from disability, nor unless he file his own affidavit
showing his right to sue as next friend according to the provisions
of this chapter.
2 [54, 59]. A guardian, curator, committee, or next friend
who brings or prosecutes an action for a person who is under
disability is liable for the costs which accrue during his conduct
of the action, unless he be allowed to sue in forma pauperis, by
an order of the court, or by an order of the judge thereof during
vacation. (Meaning of " disability," sec. 73^-31; when required
to secure costs, sec. 619.)
§ 38. 1. Appointment of guardian ad litem—his duties and
compensation. No appointment of a guardian ad litem shall be
made until the defendant is summoned, or until a person is sum
moned for him, as is authorized by section 52; nor until an affidavit
of the plaintifff, or of his attorney, be filed in court, or with the clerk,
or presented to the judge during vacation, showing that the defend
ant has no guardian, curator, or committee, residing in this State,
known to the affiant.
2 [56, 60, 61]. A guardian ad litem must be a regular, practic
ing attorney of the court; and may be appointed by the court,
or the judge thereof, whether a guardian, curator, or committee
appear for the defendant or not ; or by the clerk of the court,
during vacation, if the affidavit mentioned in subsection 1 of this
section be filed. The guardian ad litem may be appointed, upon
the motion of the plaintitt, or of any friend of the defendant ;
but neither the plaintitt' nor his attorney shall be appointed, nor
be permitted to suggest the name of the proposed guardian ad
litem; and the court or judge may change the guardian so
appointed whenever the interest of the infant may appear to
require such change.
3. It shall be the duty of the guardian ad litem to attend prop
erly to the preparation of the case; and in an ordinary action
he may cause as many witnesses to be subpoenaed as he may
think proper, subject to the control of the court; and in an
equitable action he may take depositions, not, however, exceed
ing three, without leave of the court.
4 [64]. The court shall allow to the guardian ad litem a rea
sonable fee for his services, to be paid by the plaintitt' and taxed
in the costs. The affidavit of such guardian, or of another per
son, or other competent evidence, is admissible to prove the ser
vices rendered, but not to prove their value. The court must
decide concerning such value, without reference to the opinions
of parties or other witnesses. {Form of affidavit page Jf.06; when
attorney can make, sec. 550-1,0 ; not required to pay for deposi
tions, sec. 583.)
§ 39 [65]. How action commenced. An action is commenced
by filing, in the office of the clerk of the proper court, a petition
stating the plaintifff's cause of action ; or, in cases wherein written
pleadings are not required, by filing in such court the account, or the
written contract, or a short written statement of the facts on which
the action is founded ; and, in either case, by causing a summons to be
issued, or a warning order to be made, thereon. {Clerk must indorse
time of filing, sec. €6!) ; when written pleadings not required, sec. 705;
when summons may issue on holiday, sec. 665; when and how warning
order made, secs. 57-58.)
§ 40 [66]. Form and requisites of summons. The summons
shall command the officer to whom it is directed to summon the
defendant named therein, to answer the petition filed by the plaintifff,
giving his name, at a time stated therein, under the penalty of the
petition being taken for confessed, or of the defendant being pro
ceeded against for contempt of court on his failure to do so. The
summons shall be dated the day it is issued and be signed by the
clerk. (Form of page 4.02; to whom directed, sec. 667.)
§ 41 [67]. Summons may be issued to any county. A sum
mons shall be issued at any time, to any county, against any defend
ant, at the plaintifff's request. But a summons not served shall not
be taxed in the costs unless otherwise ordered by the court.
§ 42 [68]. One copy for each defendant. With every summons
the clerk shall issue a copy thereof for each defendant named therein
unless otherwise ordered by the plaintifff.
§ 43 [69]. Time fixed in for answer. The time fixed in the
summons for the defendant to answer shall be the day the summons
is returnable. ( When answer must be filed, sec. 102.)
§ 44 [70]. When summons returnable. The summons shall be
returnable to the first day of the next term of the court, which does
not begin within ten days from the date of the summons.
§ 45 [71]. To whom to be delivered. The summons and copies
shall be delivered to the sheriff or other officer authorized to exe
cute it. (Sheriff to indorse time of reception, sec. 674; officers author
ized to execute, sec. 667.)
§ 46 [72]. Sheriff must attend clerk's office daily. It shall
be the duty of the sheriff, or of one of his deputies, to attend at the
clerk's office daily—Sundays excepted —to receive any process that
may be issued, and the clerk shall deliver to him any process remain
ing in his office.
CHAPTER II.
SErVICE OF SUMMONS.
Article 1. Actual service. ,
2. Constructive service.
ARTICLE I.
Actual Service.
? 47. By whom summons may be served.
2 48. Manner of serving.
2 49. Wbat return on must state.
2 50. How service acknowledged.
2 51. How served on county —corporation —common carrier.
{ 52. How served on infant under fourteen.
2 53. How served on person of unsound mind.
2 54. How served on prisoner.
2 5.r). How served on Shakers.
2 5'i. How served on non-resident.
§ 47 [73]. By whom summons may be served. The summons
may be served—
1. By the officer to whom it is directed, or any officer to
whom it might have been directed, and his return thereon shall
be proof of the time and manner of service.
2. By any person appointed by the officer to whom it is
directed, by an indorsement on the summons ; and the affidavit
of such person indorsed thereon shall be proof of the time and
manner of service. ( What officers may serve, sec. 667 ; court may
appoint person, sec.
§ 48 [74.] Manner of serving. Unless otherwise provided, the
summons shall be served by delivering, or if acceptance be refused,
by offering to deliver, a copy of it to the person to be summoned.
( When may be served on holiday, sec. 66'J.)
§ 49 [75]. What return on must state. The return or affidavit
mentioned in section 47 must state when and how the summons was
served, and, if erroneous, may, with leave of the court, be amended
according to the truth. An officer who makes such erroneous return
may be fined by the court not exceeding ten dollars, and shall be
liable to the person aggrieved for any injury caused by the error.
{Clerk to eater return on docket —effect of, sec. 670.)
% 50 [76]. How service acknowledged. Service may be
acknowledged by the person to be summoned by an indorsement
upon the summons, signed and dated by him, and attested by a wit
ness. The affidavit of the witness shall be proof of the service.
§ 51 [77 to 80]. 1. How served on county—corporation—com
mon carrier. In an action against a county the summons must be
served on the presiding judge of the county court, or, if he be absent
from the county, upon its attorney.
2. In an action against a municipal corporation the summons
must be served upon its mayor, or the chairman of its board of
trustees; or, if he be absent from the county, upon the defend
ant's official attorney, if it have one ; or, if it have no such
attorney, upon its marshal.
3. In an action against a private corporation the summons may
be served, in any county, upon the defendant's chief officer, or
agent, who may be found in this State; or it may be served in
the county wherein the action is brought upon the defendant's
chief officer or agent who may be found therein.
4. In an action brought pursuant to section 73 against a com
mon carrier, the summons may be served, in any county, upon
the defendant's chief officer or agent; or it may be served, in the
county wherein the action is brought, upon the defendant's chief
officer or agent who resides therein ; or. if the defendant operate
a railroad, it may be served upon defendant's passenger or freight
agent, stationed at, or nearest to, the county seat of the county
in which the action is brought. (Venue of action against corporation, secs. 71, 72, 75 ; against common carrier, sec. 73 ; who is
" chief officer or agent," sec. 732-^1J ; meaning of " resides " sec.
732-32.)
§ 52 [81]. How served on infant under fourteen. If the
defendant be under the age of fourteen years the summons must be
served on his father ; or, if he have no father, on his guardian ; or,
if he have no guardian, on his mother ; or, if he have no mother, on
the person having charge of him.
Amendment of January 16, 1882 : § 1. That if any of the parties
upon whom summons is directed to be served by section 52 of
the Civil Code is a plaintifff, then it shall be served on the person
who stands first in the order named in said section, and who is
not a plaintifff; and if all such persons are plaintifffs, it shall, on
the affidavit of one or more of them showing that fact, be the
duty of the clerk of the court to appoint a guardian ad litem for
the infant, and the summons shall be served on such guardian.
§ 53 [82]. How served on person of unsound mind. If the
defendant be of unsound mind the summons must be served on him
and on one of the following named persons, if residing in the county,
viz: on his committee; or, if he have no committee, on his father;
or, if he have no father, on his guardian ; or, if he have no guardian,
on his wife ; or, if he have no wife, on the person having charge of
him; or, if the defendant be a married woman of unsound mind, and
her husband be plaintifff in the action, the summons must be served
on her and her committee; or, if her husband be not plaintifff in the
action, upon her and her committee, if she have one ; or, if she have
no committee, upon her and her husband: Provided, That the sum
mons shall not be served upon a person of unsound mind, if he be
under charge or treatment of a physician who certifies that, in his
opinion, the service would be injurious to such person. Such certifi
cate shall be returned with the summons.
Amendment of January 16, 18X.2: % 2. That section 53 of the
Civil Code of Practice be amended by adding at the end of said
section the following to-wit: "Service of a summons, by deliver
ing a copy of it to the physician having charge of a person of
unsound mind, shall have the same effect as a service on the per
son of unsound mind, if such physician gives a certificate,
attested by the officer delivering him the copy, that a personal ser
vice would, in his opinion, be injurious to such person of
unsound mind." ( Venue of action against, sec. 69.)
§ 54 [83.] How served on prisoner. If the defendant be a
prisoner a copy of the petition must accompany the summons, and
the service must be upon the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall
deliver the copies of the petition and summons to the prisoner. And
a copy of the summons must also be delivered to the curator of the
defendant, if he have one; or, if he have no curator, to his wife, if
he have one ; or, if he have no wife, it shall be left at the place, if
known, where he resided, or claimed to reside, prior to his confine
ment, with some person of the age of sixteen years. (Venue of
action against, sec. 69.)
§ 55 [84]. How served on Shakers. If the defendant be a com
munity of Shakers, holding property in common, the service must
be made by posting a copy of the summons at the door of its meet
ing-house, and by delivering a copy thereof to some member of the
community.
§ 56 [86]. How served on non-resident. Excepting infants—
other than married women —and persons of unsound mind and pris
oners, if a defendant be opt of this State the plaintifff may take a copy
of the petition, certified by the clerk, with a summons annexed
thereto, warning him to appear and answer the petition within sixty
days after the same shall have been served on him, and may cause a
copy thereof to be delivered to such defendant by a person to whom
he is personally known. Proof of the delivery shall be made by the
affidavit of the person making it, indorsed on or annexed to the certi
fied copy and summons, in which the time and place of the delivery,
and the fact that the defendant was personally known to the affiant,
shall be stated. The officer before whom the affidavit is made shall
certify that the affiant is personally known by him to be worthy of
credit. (Venue of action against, sec. 75. This service does not
authorize personal judgment, sec. 419.)
ARTICLE II.
Constructive Service.
\ 57. When constructive service allowed—how made.
\ 58. When warning order can be made —affidavit for.
\ 59. Appointment of attorney —his powers, duty, compensation.
\ 60. When defendant deemed constructively summoned.
i. 61. Actual sen-ice may be made.
§ 57 [88 to 90]. When constructive service allowed—how
made. If the defendant be—
1. A corporation having no agent in this State, known to the
plaintifff, upon whom a summons can be lawfully served; or,
2. A non-resident of this State and believed to be absent there
from ; or,
3. Have departed therefrom with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors ; or,
4. Have been absent therefrom four months; or,
5. Have left the county of his residence to avoid the service of"
a summons ; or,
6. So conceal himself that a summons can not be served upon
him ; or,
7. If his name and place of residence be unknown to the
plaintifff, the clerk shall, subject to the provisions of section 58,
make upon the petition an order warning the defendant to defend
the action on the first day of the next term of the court, which
does not commence within sixty days after the making of the
order. (Venae of action against, sec. 75; how defendant whose
name unknown described, sec. 691; form of warning order,
page 403.)
§ 58 [89]. 1. When warning order can be made—affidavit.
The clerk shall not make such warning order upon any of the grounds
mentioned in sub-sections 1, 2, 8, 4, and 7, of section 57, except upon
an affidavit of the plaintifff; or of his agent or attorney, if he be
absent from the county; or of his guardian, curator, committee, or
next friend, if he be under disability ; or of the attorney of either of
them, if absent from the county, stating the ground of the application
for such order.
2. Nor shall the clerk make such order on any of the grounds
mentioned in sub-sections 1, 2, and 4, of section 57, unless the
affidavit also state in what country the defendant, or, if the defend
ant be a corporation, in what country its chief officer or agent,
resides or may be found, and the name of the place wherein a
post-office is kept nearest to the place where the defendant or its
chief officer or agent resides or may be found ; or unless the affi
davit state the affiant's ignorance of such of those facts as he does
not know.
3. Nor shall the clerk make such order upon an affidavit of an
agent or attorney of the plaintifff, stating any of the ground.-)
mentioned in sub-sections 1, 2, 4, and 7, of section 57, unless the
affidavit state the affiant's belief that the plaintifff is ignorant of
such of the facts as are unknown to the affiant.
4. The clerk may make such order upon an affidavit of the
plaintifff, or of his agent or attorney if he be absent from the
vouuty ; or of his guardian, curator, committee, or next friend,
if he be under disability ; or upon the return of a summons liy
the proper officer, stating either of the grounds mentioned in
sub-sections 5 and tj, of section 57.
5. But the clerk shall not make such order upon the affidavit
of an agent or attorney unless it also state the affiant's connection
with the plaintifff, and the fact that he is absent from the county.
6. An affidavit made pursuant to the foregoing provisions of
this section, unless it be controverted by the defendant's affidavit,
shall be sufficient evidence of the facts therein stated for the sup
port of the action as well as of the warning order. (Form of affi
davit, page b!)ti; how and before whom made, secs. 551, 54,9; if
several plaintifffs how made, sec. 550-2 ; who is "chief officer or
agent,'' sec. 732-33 ; meaning of "disability," sec. 73.'—,'/. See
also, secs. 126, 409.)
§ 59 [440, 441]. 1. Appointment of attorney—his powersduty—compensation.
The clerk, at the time of making such warn
ing order, shall appoint, as attorney for the defendant, a regulur,
practicing attorney of the court; but the court may, and for auy
reason which it deems good, shall, appoint another attorney as a sub
stitute for the attorney appointed by the clerk. Neither the plaintifff
nor his attorney shall be appointed, or be permitted to suggest the
name of, the defendant's attorney.
2. Such attorney must make diligent efforts to inform the
defendant, by mail, concerning the pendency and nature of the
action against him, and must report to the court, during the first
term, which does not commence within sixty days after his
appointment, the result of his efforts.
3. The duties and powers of such attorney are governed by the
last foregoing paragraph unless he be employed by the defendant ;
or unless he be unable to inform the defendant concerning the
action ; or unless he learn that the defendant is under disability,
other than coverture, or other than infancy and coverture com
bined.
4. Such attorney, if employed by the defendant, shall so report
to the court; and such report shall be treated as an appearance
of the defendant in the action.
5. If such attorney can not inform the defendant concerning
the action, or if he learn that the defendant is under disability,
other than coverture, or other than infancy and coverture com
bined, he shall so report to the court, and shall make an affirm
ative defense if ho can ; or, if he can not make such defense, he
shall so report to the court, and shall be subject, with reference
to such report, to the provisions of sub-section 3 of section 3b" :
and no act of his shall be treated as an appearance of such
defendant.
6. The provisions of sub-section 4 of section 38 apply with
reference to the compensation of such attorneys.
7. No judgment shall be rendered against such defendant if
under any disability, other than coverture, or infancy and cover
ture combined, until a defense or report shall have been filed
pursuant to sub-section 5 of this section. (Executing bond for
attached property is appearance, sec. 690; personal judgment can
not be rendered, sec. 419.)
§ 60 [91]. When defendant deemed constructively sum
moned. A defendant against whom a warning order is made and for
whom an attorney has been appointed shall be deemed to have been
constructively summoned on the thirtieth day thereafter, and the
action may proceed accordingly.
§ 61 [92]. Actual service may be made. The plaintifff may, at
any time before judgment, have a summons served on the defendant
if found in this State, although a warning order may have been
previously entered against him ; and after such service the case shall
proceed as in other cases of actual service.
§ 62 [93]. Concerning real property. Actions must be brought
in the county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof,
is situated—
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein.
2. For the partition of real property except as is provided in
section 66.
3. For the sale of real property under title 10, chapter 14, or
under a mortgage, lien, or other encumbrance or charge, except
for debts of a decedent.
4. For an injury to real property. {Definition of " real prop
erty," sec. 732-9-)
§ 63 [94]. To recover a fine or forfeiture, or against public
officer. Actions must be brought in the county where the cause of
action, or some part thereof, arose —
1. For the recovery of a tine, penalty, or forfeiture, imposed
by a statute ; but if the offense for which the claim is made be
committed on a water-course or road which is the boundary
of two counties, the action may be brought in either of them.
2. Against a public officer for an act done by him in virtue or
under color of his office, or for a neglect of official duty.
3. Upon the official bond of a public officer.
§ 64 [95]. Concerning wills. A proceeding to establish, or an
action to set aside, a will must be brought in the county in which the
will, if valid, ought, according to law, to be recorded.
§ 65 [96]. To settle decedent's estate. An action to settle the
estate of a deceased person must be brought in the county in which
his personal representative was qualified. (Other provisions concern
ing, secs. 428 to 438.)
§ 66 [97]. For distribution, partition, or sale of decedent's
estate. An action for the distribution of the estate of a deceased
person, or for its partition among his heirs, or for the sale, for pay
ment of his debts, of property descended from, or devised by him,
must be brought in the county in which his personal representative
was qualified. (Other provisions concerning, secs. £28 to 438?)
§ 67 [98]. By ward against guardian. An action by a ward
against his guardian for a settlement of his accounts, for additional
security, or for his removal, must be brought in the county in which
the guardian was qualified.
§ 68 [99]. Against commissioners of sinking fund, or board
of education. An action against the Commissioners of the Sinking
Fund, or the Board of Education, of this State, must be brought in
the county that includes the Seat of Government.
§ 69 [100]. Against prisoner or inmate of asylum. An action,
not mentioned in sections 62 to 67, both inclusive, nor in section
70, against a prisoner in this State, or a person confined in an asylum
for persons of unsound mind in this State, must be brought in the
county, if known, in which he resided, or claimed his residence,
when confined. (Service of summons on, secs. 63-54.)
§ 70 [474]. Upon a return of no property found. An action
upon a return of no property found, pursuant to section 439, must
be brought in the county in which the judgment is rendered, or in
which the defendant resides or is summoned.
§ 71 [101]. Against bank or insurance company. Except
ing the actions mentioned in sections 62 to 66, both inclusive, and in
sections 70 and 75, an action against an incorporated bank or insur
ance company may be brought in the county in which its principal
office or place of business is situated ; or, if it arise out of a transac
tion with an agent of such corporation, it may be brought in the
county in which such transaction took place. (Service of summons
on, sec. 51-3.)
§ 72 [101, 103]. Against corporation. Excepting the actions
mentioned in sections 62 to 66, both inclusive, and in sections 68,
70, 71, 73, 75, and 77, an action against a corporation which has an
office or place of business in this State, or a chief officer or agent
residing in this State, must be brought in the county in which such
office or place of business is situated, or in which such officer or
agent resides ; or, if it be upon a contract, in the above-named county,
or in the county in which the contract is made or to be performed;
or, if it be for a tort, in the first-named county, or the county in
which the tort is committed. ( Who is " chief officer,'' sec. 732-33.
Meaning of " resides " sec. 732-32. Service of summons on, sec. 61-3.)
§ 73 [102]. Against common carrier. Excepting the actions
mentioned in section 75, an action against a common carrier, whether
a corporation or not, upon a contract to carry property, must be
brought in the county in which the defendant, or either of several
defendants, resides ; or in which the contract is made ; or in which
the carrier agrees to deliver the property. An action against sucli
carrier for an injury to a passenger, or to other person or his property,
must be brought in the county in which the defendant, or either of
several defendants, resides ; or in which the plaintifff or his property
is injured; or in which he resides if he reside in a county into which
the carrier passes. (Service of summons on, sec. S1-4-)
§ 74. For injury to person or character. Every other action
for an injury to the person of the plaintifff, and every action for an
injury to the character of the plaintifff, against a defendant residing
in this State, must be brought in the county in which the defendant
resides, or in which the injury is done. (See also, secs. 123-12^.)
§ 75 [105]. Against person constructively summoned. Ex
cepting the actions mentioned in sections 62 to 67, both inclusive,
and in section 70 and section 76, an action against a defendant who
may be proceeded against by a warning order, as is authorized bi
section 57, must be brought in a county in which the defendant
resides at the commencement of the action ; or in which he has
property ; or in which a person resiles against whom he has a valid
claim for money or property.
§ 76. For alimony or divorce. An action for alimony or
divorce must be brought in the county where the wife usually resides,
if she have an actual residence in this State ; if not, in the county of
the husband's residence. (Sec also secs. 1^20 to 437.)
§ 77. Against contractor for public work. Excepting the
actions mentioned in section 75, an action against a contractor wTho
undertakes to construct, in whole or in part, any turnpike, bridge,
railway, lock, dam, or other public work, for labor done, or materials
or supplies furnished, for the construction or promotion of said work,
may be brought in the county wherein the labor, or most of it, is
done, or wherein the materials, or supplies, or most thereof, are
furnished ; and if such bridge connect two counties, such action may
be brought in either of them.
§ 78 [106]. Transitory actions. An action which is not required
by the foregoing sections of this article to be brought in some other
county may be brought in any county in which the defendant, or in
which one of several defendants, who may be properly joined as such
in the action, resides or is summoned. (Sec secs. 81, 54% for exceptions
to rule.)
§ 79 [107]. Against single defendant. In an action brought
pursuant to section 78, against a single defendant, there shall be no
judgment against him, unless he be summoned in the county wherein
the action is brought; or, unless he reside in such county when the
action is brought and be summoned elsewhere in this State ; or,
unless he make defense to the action before objecting to the jurisdic
tion of the court.
§ 80 [108, 109]. Against several defendants. In an action
brought pursuant to section 78, against several defendants, no judg
ment shall be rendered against any of them, upon the service of a
summons out of the county in which the action is brought, if no one
of them be summoned in that county, nor resided therein when the
action was commenced; nor if the action be discontinued or dis
missed as to the defendant who resided, or was summoned, in that
county; nor if judgment be rendered in his favor, unless a defend
ant summoned out of that county make defense without objecting to
the jurisdiction of the court : Provided, That a judgment for a defend
ant, who resided or was summoned in that county, upon a plea of
his discharge as a bankrupt, shall not prevent a judgment against
any other defendant, in an action brought before the commencement
of the proceedings in which the discharge was obtained ; but, after
such judgment upon a plea of discharge in bankruptcy, a defendant
not summoned in the county, nor residing therein at the commence
ment of the action, may, by answer, deny the liability of such bank
rupt. The issue as to the original liability of such bankrupt shall be
tried as if he were still a party, and the plaintifff shall not have judg' ment against the defendant not summoned nor residing in the county,
unless it be decided that the bankrupt was originally liable. (Sec
further as to judgments against, secs. 370, 373.)
§ 81. When defendant can not be summoned. In an action
brought pursuant to section 78, a defendant who is summoned out of
the county in which it is brought, and who did not reside therein
,when the action was begun, can not be summoned in that or any
other action of the plaintifff whilst visiting such county for the sole
purpose of defending the first-named action.
§ 82 [110]. Removal of defendant after commencement of
action. If, after the commencement of an action in the county of
the defendant's residence, he move therefrom, the service of a sum
mons upon him in any other county shall have the same effect as if
it had been made in the county from which he moved.
§ 83 [111]. What causes of action may be joined. Several
causes of action may be united, if each affect all the parties to the
action, may be brought in the same county, and may be prosecuted
by the same kind of action ; and if all of them be brought—
1. Upon contracts, express or implied; or,
2. For the recovery of real property and the rents, profits, and
damages for withholding it ; or,
3. For the recovery of specific personal property, and dam
ages for the taking or withholding it; or,
4. For partition of real or personal property, or both; or,
5. For injuries t,, character; or,
6. For injuries to person and property.
§ 84 [112]. When party may strike from pleading cause of
action. A party may strike from his petition, answer, or reply, any
cause of action, before the final submission of the case to the jury, or
to the court if the trial be by the court. (May dismiss without
prejudice, sec. 371.)
§ 85 [113]. When court may strike from pleading cause of
action. The court, at any time before defense, shall, on motion of
a party, require the adverse party to elect which of two or more
causes of action, improperly joined, he will prosecute; and, upon his
refusal so to elect shall strike out of the petition, answer or reply,
any cause of action improperly joined with another. (Sec further,
sec. 113-4.)
§ 86 [114.] When objections to misjoinder waived. Objec
tions to the misjoinder of causes of action are waived, unless they are
made pursuant to section 85.
TITLE VII.
PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Chapter 1. Tlw pleadings in general.
2. The }xtitwn.
3. Tlte demurrer.
4. The answer.
5. The reply and additional pleadings.
6. Time of jAeading.
7. General rules of pleading.
8. Mistakes and amendments.
9. Interrogator'm.
CHAPTER I.
The Pleadings ill General.
\ 87. Pleadings defined.
\ 88. Form and sufficiency of.
\ 89. What pleadings allowed.
§ 87 [115]. Pleadings denned. Pleadings are statements by
parties to an action of their causes of controversy.
§ 88 [116]. Form and sufficiency of. The forms of pleadings,
and the rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, are those
prescribed by this Code.
§ 89 [117]. What pleadings allowed. The pleadings allowed
are—
1. Petitions, answers, and replies, and such additional plead
ings, by way of rejoinder and rebutter, as may be necessary to
form a material issue of fact.
2. Demurrers. {Caption of, sec. 110; what may contain, sec.
113-2 ; verification of, and by whom, secs. 116, 117 ; issue must he
formed, sec. 114 ; when allegations confessed, sec. 126 ; when must
be proved, sec. 126-1, 4; what writings must, or may, be filed, secs.
120, 128.
CHAPTER II.
The Petition.
\ 90. Requisites of petition.
§ 90 [118]. Requisites of petition. The petition must state
facts which constitute a cause of action in favor of the plaintifff
against the defendant, and must demand the specific relief to which
the plaintifff considers himself entitled ; and may contain a general
prayer for any other relief to which the plaintifff may appear to be
entitled. If no defense be made, the plaintifff can not have judgment
for any relief not specifically demanded; but, if defense be made, he
may have judgment for other relief, under a prayer therefore. (Forms
of petitions in various actions, pages 385-393 ; may be amended, secs.
109, 132, 134; verification of, sec. 137.)
§ 91 [120, 121]. Demurrers. Demurrers are special or genera!.
(Form of, page 394.)
§ 92 [120, 121]. Special defined—waiver of. A special demur
rer is an objection to a pleading which shows—
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the defendant, or of
the subject of the action ; or,
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,
3. That another action is pending, in this State, between the
same parties, for the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant.
Either of said grounds of objection, shown to exist by a plead
ing, is waived,, unless distinctly specified by a demurrer thereto,
except the objection to the jurisdiction of the court of the sub
ject of the action, which objection is not waived by failing so to
make it ; but a party failing so to make it when or before he files
a pleading, other than a demurrer, is liable for all costs resulting
from such failure. {May be fled in vacation, sec. 109 ; maybe
made to part of pleading, sen. 113-1; ground of shown by plead
ing, sec. 118.)
§ 93 [121]. 1. General defined—waiver of. A general demurrer
is an objection to a pleading, because it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action or a defense ; or, because it does not
state facts sufficient to support a cause of action or a defense.
2. Failure so to make such objection is not a waiver thereof,
but a party failing to make it when or before he files a pleading,
other than a demurrer, shall be liable for all costs resulting from
such failure. {May be fled in vacation, sec. 109; may be made to
part of pleading, sec. 118—1.)
§ 94 [122]. Amendment after demurrer. It' the court sustain
the demurrer, the party may amend the pleading, with leave of court;
but in all cases he shall pay the costs resulting from the demurrer.
CHAPTER IV.
The Answer.
? 95. What the answer may contain.
? 96. Counter-claim—set-off—cross-petition —defined.
{ 97. Proceedings upon counterclaims—cross-petitions—set-offs.
§ 95 [125]. What the answer may contain. An answer may
contain —
1. A traverse.
2. A statement of facts winch constitute an estoppel against,
or avoidance of, a cause of action stated in the petition.
3. A statement of facts which constitute a set-off' or counter
claim.
4. A cross-petition. (Forms of answers, pages 895-399; time
of filing, sees. 102, 104 ; maybe filed in vacation, secs. 107, 108 ; trav
erse defined, sec. 113-7 ; what allegations must be traversed, sec.
m.)
§ 96 [126, 128]. 1. Counter-claim — set-off — cross-petition —
denned. A counterclaim is a clause of action in favor of a defendant against a plaintifff, or against him and another, which arises out
of the contract, or transaction, stated in the petition as the founda
tion of the plaintifff's claim, or which is connected with the subject
of the action.
2. A set-off is a cause of action arising upon a contract, judg
ment, or award, in favor of a defendant against a plaintifff, or
against him and another ; and it can not be pleaded except in an
action upon a contract, judgment, or award.
3. A cross-petition is the commencement of an action by a
defendant against a co-defendant, or a person who is not a party
to the action, or against both ; or, by a plaintifff against a
co-plaintifff, or a person who is not a party to the action, or
against both ; and is not allowed to a defendant, except upon a
cause of action which affects, or is affected by, the original cause
of action ; nor to a plaintifff, except upon a cause of action
which affects, or is affected by, a set-off or counterclaim. (J»
what pleadings counterclaim and set-off allowed, sec. Ill—2,,1;
trial of, sec. 372; judgment on, sec. 387 ; in what pleading crosspetition allowed, secs. 1ll, 692.)
§ 97. 1. Proceedings upon counterclaims—cross-petitions —
set-offs. The provisions of section 90, concerning the demand
and giving of relief, apply to set-offs, counterclaims, and cross-peti
tions.
2. No summons is required upon a set-off or counterclaim
against a plaintifff.
3 [127, 129]. Proceedings upon cross-petitions, and upon set
offs and counterclaims against new parties, shall be the same as
those upon petitions; but they shall not delay the trial of any
issue in the original action, or upon a set-off or counterclaim,
concerning which a judgment can be rendered without prejudice
to the rights of the defendants to the cross-petition, or to the
rights of new parties to a set-off or counterclaim.
4. A defendant shall not have judgment upon a set-off or
counterclaim, unless the caption of the answer contain the
words, answer and set-off, or the words, answer and counter
claim ; but a misdescription in the caption, of the nature of the
defendant's claim, shall not prevent him from having judgment :
nor shall a plaintifff have judgment upon a counterclaim unless
the caption of his reply contain the words, reply and counter
claim.
CHAPTER V.
The Reply and Additional Pleadings.
{ 98. What the reply may contain.
$ 99. What the rejoinder may contain.
{100. Surrejoinders and subsequent pleadings.
{101. Departure in pleading forbidden.
§ 98 [132, 133]. What the reply may contain. A reply may
contain —
1. A traverse.
2. A statement of facts which constitute an estoppel against,
or avoidance of, a set-off, counterclaim, or defense stated in the
answer.
3. A counterclaim against a set-off.
4. A cross-petition. (Forms of, pages ^00-^01 ; when not al
lowed, sec. 112.)
§ 99. What the rejoinder may contain. A rejoinder may con
tain —
1. A traverse.
2. A statement of facts which constitute an estoppel against,
or avoidance of—
a. Facts stated in the reply in support of the plaintifff's orig
inal cause of action.
b. A defense stated in the reply to a set-off or counterclaim.
c. A counterclaim stated in the reply. (Forms of page 401 ;
when not allowed, sec. 112.)
§ 100. Surrejoinders and subsequent pleadings- Surrejoinders
and subsequent pleadings may be of the same character as replie&and
rejoinders.
§ 101. Departure in pleading forbidden. A party shall not,
in a reply or subsequent pleading, depart from a cause of action or a
ground of defense, stated by him in a previous pleading; but the
pleading of equitable matter of avoidance or estoppel, in an ordinary
action, or of legal matter of avoidance or estoppel in an equitable
action, shall not, of itself, constitute such departure. (When incon
sistent allegations allowed, sec. 113-4.)
CHAPTER VI.
Time of Pleading.
$ 102. When defense must be filed.
3 103. When other pleadings must lie filed in ordinary action.
\ 104. When defense in equitable action to be filed thirty days after service.
$ 105. When pleadings must be completed in equitable action.
I 106. When pleadings must be completed in equitable action.
% 107. Time for pleading may be extended.
\ 108. Filing pleading in vacation.
? 109. Filing demurrer in vacation.
§ 102 [87, 135, 137]. When defense must be filed. Defense to
an ordinary action must be filed on the day on which the case is set
for trial : And, to an equitable action, on the third day of term, if the
summons be served in the county in which the action is brought ten
days, or elsewhere in the State twenty days, or out of the State sixty
days, before the commencement of the term; or, if the defendant be
constructively summoned thirty days before the commencement of
the term. (When defendant construct i cell/ summoned may file defense,
sec. 408 ; time of trial in ordinary actions, secs. 359, 363.)
§ 103 [136]. When other pleadings must be filed in ordinary
action. In an ordinary action, all other pleadings must be filed on
or before the calling of the case for trial.
§ 104 [138]. When defense in equitable action to be filed
thirty days after service. If the summons in an equitable action
be served before the commencement of the term, but not the length
of time mentioned in section 102, the defense shall be filed in thirty
days after the service.
8 102. Non-resident defendant. An equitable action against a non-resident
does not stand for trial until ninety days after the pleadings ought to have been com
pleted. Harris v. Adams, 2 Dnv. 141. See notes to sees. 363, 364.
§ 105 [139]. When pleadings must be completed in equitable
action. In an equitable action, if the answer be due and be filed on the
third dp.y of the term, the reply shall be filed within three days there
after, and the subsequent pleadings shall be filed within three days
after the filing of the reply. (Time of trial, secs. 360,364 to 367.)
% 106. When pleadings must be completed in equitable action.
In an equitable action, if the answer be not due and filed on the third
day of the term, the reply shall be filed within ten days after notice
of the filing of the answer, and the subsequent pleadings shall be filed
within ten days after notice of the filing of the reply.
§ 107 [140]. Time for pleading may be extended. The court
may, for good cause shown, and at the cost of the party applying
therefore^ extend the time for filing a pleading, but not beyond the
next succeeding term.
§ 108 [141]. Filing pleading in vacation. The filing of an
answer or subsequent pleading in the clerk's office, during vacation,
within the time allowed, with notice thereof to the adverse party, or
his attorney, shall be equivalent to a filing in court.
§ 109. 1. Filing demurrer in vacation. A party who files an
answer or subsequent pleading, during vacation, may file a demurrer
therewith.
2. The adverse party may, during that vacation, and after
notice to the party filing the demurrer, or his attorney, file an
amended pleading to cure any defect suggested by the demurrer.
3. The failure of a party, who so files a special demurrer, to
present it for consideration, at the next succeeding term of the
court, shall be a waiver of any defect stated in the demurrer,
except that to the jurisdiction of the court of the subject of the
action.
§ 110 [118, 125]. 1. What caption of pleading must contain.
The caption of a pleading must state the name of the court in which
the action is brought or pending, and the names of the parties, desig
nating who are plaintifffs, and who are defendants, coupled with a
word, or short phrase, describing the character of the pleading, with
this exception : if there be several parties on either side, a statement
of the name of the plaintifff, or defendant, first named in the petition,
followed by the phrase, " etc.," shall suffice, except in petitions, crosspetitions,
and answers which make new parties to a set-off" or counter
claim.
2. Petitions in ordinary actions shall be described by the word,
"petition;" those in other actions shall be described by the
words, "petition in equity." (Sec, sec. ,97-4,)
§ 111. 1. What pleading may be made, cross-petition—set
off—counterclaim. No pleading, except an answer to an original
petition, or the plaintifff's reply to such answer, shall be made a crosspetition.
2. No pleading, except an answer to an original petition, shall
present a set-off.
3. No pleading, except an answer to an original petition, or a
reply to a set-ofi% shall present a counterclaim. (These pleadings
defined, sec. 96 ; procecdings upon, sec. 97.)
§ 112. When reply, and additional pleading not allowed.
There shall be no reply, nor additional pleading, except to affirmative
allegations of an adverse pleading. (What these pleadings may con
tain, secs. 98 to 101.)
§ 113 [124]". 1 . General provisions concerning pleadings. A
party may demur to part of a pleading, and present an issue of fact
as to another part.
2 [119]. A pleading may contain statements of as many causes
of action, legal or equitable, and of as many matters of estoppel,
and of avoidance, legal or equitable, total or partial ; and may
make as many traverses ; and may present as many demurrers, as
there ma)- be grounds for in behalf of the pleader.
?i [110, 12.")]. If there be more than one, each must be dis
tinctly stated in a separate, numbered, paragraph ; and either,
whicb is intended to respond to part only of an adverse plead
ing, must show to what part it is responsive. It is the duty of
the court, upon or without motion, to enforce these provisions;
and, for that purpose, to dismiss an action without prejudice, or
to strike a pleading, or any part thereof, from the case, or to
allow a new pleading.
4. If, however, a party file a pleading which contains incon
sistent statements, or statements inconsistent with those of a
pleading previously filed by him in the action, he shall, upon or
without motion, be required to elect which of them shall be
Btricken from his pleading. But a party may allege, alterna
tively, the existence of one or another fact, if he state that one
of them is true, and that he does not know which of them is
true.
5. If a pleading be stricken from the record, re-formed, or
amended, the party in fault shall pay the cost resulting there
from.
6. An express admission of a fact is not necessary to render
valid a pleading in avoidance or estoppel thereof.
7. [125]. A traverse is a denial, by a party, of facts alleged
in an adverse pleading, if they be presumptively within his
knowledge ; or a denial of them, or a denial that he has sufficient
knowledge or information to form a belief concerning them, if
they be not presumptively within his knowledge.
8. Sham pleadings shall, upon or without motion, be stricken
out by the court, at the cost of the parties for whom they are
filed and of their attorneys. ( What is nol departure in pleading,
see. 101 : cause of action may be dismissed without prejudice,
sec. 371.)
§ 114. Material issue must be formed. Parties must, before
trial, form a material issue concerning each cause of controversy ;
and it is the duty of the court, upon or without motion, to compel
them to do so ; and, for that purpose, they may be required to re-form
their pleadings, or the pleading of a party who is in fault may be
stricken from the case.
§ 115 [142]. Requisites of pleadings. Pleadings must be in the
English language, and as concise as possible consistently with clear
ness; and, excepting those mentioned in section 705, must be in
writing, and be signed by the parties who file them, or by their
attorneys.
§ 116 [142, 143, 538]. Verification of, how made—when not
required. Every pleading, which this Code requires to be written,
must be verified by an affidavit to the effect that the affiant believes
that thj statements of the pleading are true, excepting—
1. Demurrers.
2. Defensive pleadings filed by a guardian ad litem, curator, or
committee, of a defendant who is under liability, or by an attor
ney for a defendant who has been constructively summoned and
has not appeared to the action.
3. A pleading which states a cause of action that is founded on
a written contract, or upon a written indorsement or assignment
thereof, if it be filed with the pleading.
4. A pleading which states a defense that is founded on a
writing executed by the adverse party, and filed with the plead
ing.
5. Allegations concerning value or damage, not accompanied
by an allegation of an express promise, or by a statement of facts
showing an implied promise, to pay such value or damage.
6. Pleadings in actions brought in the name of the Common
wealth, pursuant to Chapter XIII, of Title X.
7. When the admission of an allegation of a pleading might
subject a party to a criminal or penal prosecution. ( Verification
not required in actions for alimony, or divorce, sec. Ifil ; nor in
actions for division of land, sec. ^99-14; waiver of, sec. 138 ; when
amendments allowed without, sec. 139 ; how and before whom made,
secs. 551, 549.)
§ 117 [142, 143]. By whom verification to be made. Pleadings,
the verification of which is required hy this Code, must be verified as
follows :
1. Pleadings of the Commonwealth must he verified by the
attorney who brings the action, or by the officer, or agent, who
is authorized by law to have it brought.
2. That of a county, or of a municipal or private corporation,
must be verified by its chief officer or agent, upon whom a sum
mons in the action is lawfully served, or might be lawfully served
if it were a defendant ; or if it have no such officer or agent
residing in the county in which the action is brought, or is pend
ing, it may be verified by its attorney.
3. That of any other party must be verified by him, with these
exceptions :
a. If he be absent from the county, or mentally incapable of
taking an oath, or physically unable to attend before an officer, it
may be verified by his agent or attorney.
b. If it be a joint pleading of several parties, who are united in
interest, it may bo verified by either of them.
c. If the party be under disability, excepting coverture, or
infancy and coverture combined, it may be verified by the person
who is authorized to file it.
4. But, on motion of a party who files his affidavit, stating his
belief that an adverse party, whose pleading has been verified by
a person other than himself, knows that a statement thereof, in
the affidavit mentioned, is untrue, and that the motion is not
made for delay, the court, if such statement be material, shall
require such adverse party to verify the pleading; and, if he fail
to do so, within a reasonable time, shall treat it, with regard to
him, as if it had not been filed.
5. Verification of a pleading does not make other or greater
proof necessary on the side of the adverse party than would have
been necessary if the pleading had not been verified. (Ifow and.
before whom made, sees. ~,~,1, 540 ; when by agent or attorney, sec.
,ri50 ; form of affidavit lo require party to verify in person, par/r 406.)
§ 118 [123]. Grounds of special demurrer may be presented
by pleading. A party may, by an answer or other proper pleading,
make any of the objections mentioned in section 92, the existence of
which is not shown by the pleading of his adversary ; and failure so
to do is a waiver of any of said objections, except that to the jurisdic
tion of the court of the subject of the action.
§ 119 [144]. 1. What need not be stated in pleading—private
statute. Neither the evidence relied on by a party, nor presuniptions of law, nor facts of which judicial notice is taken, excepting
private statutes, shall be stated in a pleading.
2. In pleading a private statute, it shall be sufficient to refer to
it by stating its title and the day on which it became a law.
§ 1 20 [145]. Writing on which action is founded must be filed.
If an action, counterclaim, set-off, or cross-petition be founded on a
note, bond, bill, or other writing, as evidence of indebtedness, it must
be filed as a part of the pleading, if in the power of the party to
produce it ; and if not filed, the reason for the failure must be stated
in the pleading: if upon an account, a copy thereof must be filed
with the pleading. (Action on lost writing, sec. 7; other writings may
be filed as evidence, sec. 128; when read as genuine, sec. ».'? ; meaning
of " writing," sec. 7S2S.)
% 121 [147]. Irrelevant or redundant matter forbidden.
Irrelevant or redundant matter in a pleading shall be stricken out,
upon or without motion, at the cost of the party whose pleading con
tains it.
§ 122 [148]. How judgment may be pleaded. In pleading a
judgment or determination of a court or officer, it is not necessary to
state the facts conferring jurisdiction ; but it shall be sufficient to state
that the judgment or determination was duly given or made.
§ 123 [150]. What allegations not necessary in action for
libel or slander. In an action for libel or slander, it is not neces
sary to state any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showing the appli
cation to the plaintifff of the alleged defamatory matter.
§ 124 [151]. What answer may state in actions for libel or
slander. In the actions mentioned in section 123, the defendant
may state the truth of the alleged libel or slander, and any mitigat
ing circumstances; and, whether he prove the justification or not,
he may prove the mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of
damages.
§ 1 25 [152]. 1 . Requisites of petition, and answer in action for
recovery of land. A petition for the recovery of land, or for its
subjection to a demand of the plaintifff', must describe it so that it may
be identified.
2. Ill an action tor the recovery of land, the answer of the
defendant must state whether or not he claims it, or any part of
it ; and, if he claim part of it, his answer must so describe such
part that it may be identified. The making of such statement,
or of such statement and description, shall not, of itself, throw
on the defendant the burthen of proving his right to the land
claimed by him ; but, if the plaintifff recover any part thereof,
the defendant shall pay the costs of the action.
§ 126 [153]. Material allegations taken as true—exceptions to
rule. Every material allegation of a pleading must, for the purposes
of the action.be taken as true, unless specifically traversed, excepting
these, which must be proved though not traversed :
1. Allegations of a petition, or cross-petition, against a defend
ant who is under any disability except coverture.
2. Allegations of an answer, or reply, so far as it states a setott" or counterclaim against a new party who is under any disa
bility except coverture.
3. Allegations against a defendant constructively summoned,
who has not appeared in the action. •
4. Allegations concerning value or amount of damage, not
accompanied by an allegation of an express promise, or by a
statement of facts showing an implied promise, to pay such value
or damage : such allegations, so accompanied, need not be proved
unless traversed. (Traverse defined, sec. 118-7; judgment upon
failure to plead, sec. 379 ; trial by court, sec. 312 ; by jury, sec.
813; petition for dirorce not taken as true by failure to answer\
sec.
§ 127 [154]. Material allegation denned. A material allega
tion is one which is necessary for the statement or support of a cause
of action or defense. «
§ 128 [155]. 1. Filing writings relied on as evidence. In addi
tion to the writings which a party is required by section 120 to file
as the foundation of his action or defense, he may file, as an exhibit,
with his pleading, or, with leave of court at any time pending the
action, any writing upon which he may intend to rely as evidence.
2. In an equitable action, such exhibits shall constitute part of
the record, unless it show that they were not used on the trial.
3. In an ordinal"y action, such exhibits shall not constitute part
of the record, unless it show that they were used on the trial.
{Meaning of " writing," set- 782-0 ; when read as genuine, sec. 587.)
CHAPTER VIII.
Mistakes in Pleadings and Amendments.
ji 129. Variance between pleadings and proof— what deemed material.
\ 180. Fact to be found according to evidence, and pleadings amended.
i> 131. When variance deemed a failure of proof.
\ 132. Plaintiff may amend without leave before answer.
j( 133. Demurrer overruled, party may plead.
\ 134. tieneral provisions concerning amendments.
\ 135. Supplemental pleading allowed.
\ 136. Continuance on amendment.
it 137. Verification of petition before trial.
ji 138. Verification not necessary after trial begins
? 139. Court may allow amendment without verification.
§ 129 [156]. Variance between pleadings and proof—what
deemed material. No variance between pleadings and proof is
material, which does not mislead a party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. A party who claims to
have been so misled must show that fact to the satisfaction of the
court ; and, thereupon, the court may order the pleading to be
amended, upon such terms as may be just.
§ 130 [157]. Fact to be found according to evidence, and
pleadings amended. If such variance be not material, the court
may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, and may
order an immediate amendment.
§ 131 [158]. When variance deemed a failure of proof. If,
however, the allegation of the claim or defense, to which the proof
is directed, be unproved, not in some particular or particulars only,
but in its general scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of
variance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
Amendment of March 24,1888: § 1. That section 131 of the
Civil Code of Practice be amended by adding thereto the follow
ing words, to-wit : "In an action on a contract alleged to have
been made by several defendants, in the event the evidence shall
show the contract to have been made with less than all those
defendants by whom it is alleged to have been made, this shall
not be deemed either a variance or failure of proof, but judg
ment may be rendered against the party or parties shown to be
bound and in favor of those shown not to be bound."
§ 132 [159]. Plaintiff may amend without leave before
answer. The plaintifff may, at any time before answer, amend his
petition without leave; but, unless the amendment be filed five days
before the term at which the defendant is summoned to answer, he
6hall give to the defendant notice, of one day, of his intention to
amend. (Mai/ be filed in vacation to rare, defect, sec. 109—2).
§ 133 [160]. Demurrer overruled party may plead. Upon a
demurrer being overruled, the party demurring may file an answer,
reply, or additional pleading.
§ 134 [161]. General provisions concerning amendments. The
court may, at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms
as may be proper, cause or permit a pleading or proceeding to be
amended, by adding or striking out the name of a party ; or, by cor
recting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; or, by inserting other allegations material to the case; or, if
the amendments do not change substantially the claim or defense, by
conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. And, if
a proceeding taking by a party fail to conform in any respect to the
provisions of this Code, the court may permit an amendment of such
proceeding, so as to make it conformable thereto. And, if the alle
gations of a pleading be so indefinite or uncertain that the precise
nature of the claim or defense is not apparent, the court may require
the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment. The
court must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect
in the proceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights of the
adverse party ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by rea
son of such error or defect. {Party in. fault must pay cost of, sec. US- -5 ;
antendment of affidavit for attachment, sec. 86'8—-'.)
§ 135 [162]. Supplemental pleading allowed. A party may
be allowed, on motion, to file a supplemental pleading, alleging
material facts occurring after the filing of the former pleading; but
if a plaintifff, having a lien for a debt due and a debt not due upon
property which he seeks to subject, state both claims in his petition,
he may, upon a suggestion of record that one of them has become
due, pendente lite, have judgment for a sale of the property therefore.
§ 136 [163]. Continuance on amendment. If a party amend a
pleading or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or
otherwise, that the adverse party can not be ready for trial in conse
quence thereof, a continuance may be granted to some day in the
same term or to another term of the court.
§ 137 [164]. Verification of petition before trial. A petition
filed without verification shall not be dismissed for that reason, if the
verification be made on or before the calling of the action for trial.
§ 138 [165]. Verification not necessary after trial begins. (No
objection shall be taken, after the commencement of the trial, to any
pleading for the want of, or a defect in, the verification. \
§ 1 39 [1 66] . Court may allow amendment without verification.
Courts may, in their discretion, permit the amendments authorized by
this chapter to be made without being verified, unless a new and dis
tinct cause of action or defense be thereby introduced.
CHAPTER IX.
Interrogatories.
\ 140. Interrogatories in equitable actions.
\ 141. Party answering not confined to mere response.
\ 142. When interrogatories must be answered.
? 143. Interrogatories in ordinary actions.
\ 144. When to be answered.
\ 145. When trial not postponed for failure to answer.
\ 14b. Provisions of section 141 apply.
\ 147. Answers must distinguish between knowledge and information.
| 148. Verification of—how made.
\ 149. When party may be compelled to testify in court.
\ 150. When claim sustained for failure to answer interrogatories.
\ 151. Court may compel answers to interrogatories.
§ 140 [167]. Interrogatories in equitable actions. In equitable
actions, a party may annex to his pleading written interrogatories to
the adverse party, concerning any material allegation thereof; and
answers thereto, on oath, may be read by either party, as a deposition
between the party interrogating and the party answering.
§ 141 [168]. Party answering not confined to mere response.
The party answering shall not be confined to responding merely to
the interrogatories, but may state any facts concerning the cause of
action to which the interrogatories refer, and they may likewise be
read as a deposition. (If answers state new matter7 how controverted,
see. 60S.) ,
142 [169]. When interrogatories must be answered. Inter
rogatories annexed to a petition shall be answered when the party is
required to answer the petition; if annexed to any other pleading,
they shall be answered in twenty days after notice of the filing thereof
shall be given to the adverse party or his attorney; but if answered
twenty days before the term at which the action stands regularly for
trial, the action shall not be postponed on account of their not being
sooner answered. ( When party interrogated can not demand trial,
sec -','6.ri.)
§ 143 [170]. Interrogatories in ordinary actions. In ordinary
actions, a party may annex to his pleading written interrogatories to
an adverse party concerning any material allegation —
1. If the party interrogated do not reside within twenty miles
from the place where the action may be pending.
2. If the party interrogated be unable to attend court on
account of infirmity, or imprisonment, or be a female.
§ 144 [171]. When to be answered. In ordinary actions, inter
rogatories annexed to the petition shall be answered when the petition
is required to be answered ; if annexed to any other pleading, they
shall be answered at or before the calling of the cause for trial, if the
party interrogated had reasonable notice of their being filed.
§ 145 [172]. When trial not postponed for failure to answer.
The trial of an ordinary action shall not be postponed on account of
the failure to answer the interrogatories, if the party interrogated be
present in court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined ; nor,
in case of his absence, without an affidavit showing the facts which
the party believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the
party has not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted to file them, for
the purpose of delay; nor, if the party will consent that the facts
stated in the affidavit shall be considered as admitted by him.
§ 146 [173]. Provisions of section 141 apply. The provisions
of section 141 shall apply to the answers to interrogatories in ordi
nary actions. (If answers state new matter: how controverted, sec.
009.)
§ 147 [174]. Answers must distinguish between knowledge
and information. A party, in answering such interrogatories, shall
distinguish clearly between what is stated from his personal knowl«dge
and what is stated from information or belief merely. An
unqualified statement of a fact shall be considered as made from his
personal knowledge.
§ 148 [175]. Verification of—how made. Answers to such inter
rogatories shall be verified by the affidavit of the party answering,
to the effect that the statements in them made of his personal knowl
edge are true, and those made from the information of others he
believes to be true.
§ 149 [176]. When party may be compelled to testify in court.
If a party reside within twenty miles from the place in which the
action may be pending, he may be summoned by the adverse party,
and be compelled to testify on the trial of an ordinary action as any
other witness.
§ 150 [177]. When claim sustained for failure to answer in
terrogatories. If a party, filing interrogatories, file an affidavit that
he verily believes that any subject of the interrogatories is in the
personal knowledge of the adverse party, and that his answers there
to, if truly made, will sustain the affiant's claim or defense, or any
part thereof, and the adverse party shall fail, after reasonable time,
to answer them, the claim or defense, or the part thereof mentioned
in such affidavit, shall be deemed to be sustained.
§ 151 [178]. Court may compel answers to interrogatories.
The court may compel answers to interrogatories by process of con
tempt, and may, on the failure of the party to answer them, after
reasonable time, dismiss the petition, or strike out the pleading, of
a party so failing. (In action on constructive service court may pro
pound, sec. 412.)
§ 152 [179]. Defendant may be arrested and held to bail.
A defendant in a civil action can be arrested and held to bail, only
upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
§ 1 53 [180]. Manner and grounds of obtaining order of arrest.
An order for the arrest of the defendant shall be made by the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought or pending, at its com
mencement, or at any time before judgment, if an affidavit of the
plaintifff be filed in his office showing—
1. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The sum or value, which the affiant believes the plaintifff
ought to recover.
4. That the affiant believes, either that the defendant is about
to depart from this State, and, with intent to defraud his cred
itors, has concealed, or moved from this State, his property, or
so much thereof that the process of the court after judgment
can not be executed ; or that the defendant has money, or secur
ities for money, or evidences of debt, in the possession of himself,
or of others for his use, and is about to depart from this State
without leaving property therein sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's
claim. {Form of affidavit, page 407. How and before whom
made, secs, 551, 549. When by agent, or attorney, sec. 550. How
order obtained before debt is due, secs. 237 to 242 ; when may issue
on holiday, sec. 665.)
§ 154 [181]. Order not to be issued until bond executed. The
order of arrest shall not be issued by the clerk until a bond is exe
cuted in his office, with good sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff
shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the afreet, If" the order be wrcugfally pt/ta"ijied, not exceed
ing double the a"mouht oi the plaintifff's claim stated in the affidavit.
{Form of bond, page 408. If defective, new one may be executed, sec.
682. Sureties may be sworn ; qualification of, secs. 683, 684.)
§ 155 [182]. Form and requisites of order. The order of arrest
shall be addressed and delivered, with a copy thereof, to the sheriff.
It shall state the names of the parties to the action, the court in
which the action is brought or pending, and the amount of the
plaintifff's claim specified in the affidavit; and shall require the
sheriff to arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in the sum of
the plaintifff's claim, with the probable costs of the action, not ex
ceeding twenty-five dollars, and to make return of the order on a
day to be named therein, with the bail bond, if any be taken.
{Form of order, page 408. Must indorse time of reception, sec. 674 !
order may be addressed and delivered to other officer, or person, secs.
667, 668.)
§ 156 [183]. When returnable. The return day of the order of
arrest, if issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the
same as that of a summons; if issued afterward, it may be another
day in term, at the option of the plaintifff. ( When summons return
able, sec. 44-)
§ 157 [184]. How order executed. The sheriff shall execute
the order of arrest by arresting the defendant and delivering to him
u copy thereof. ( When may execute on holiday) ece. 66f. May break
doors to execute, sec. 676. When defendant privileged from arrest, sec.
066.)
§ 158 [185].- Defendant to be committed unless bailed. The
defendant, when arrested,: ehiitl he 'committed hy thfe sheriff to the
jail of his county, a copy of the order of arrest b'ein'g' delivered to
the jailer; and, unless bailed, shall be kept in custody in the manner
provided by law in the case of a defendant taken in execution upon
a judgment in a civil action, until discharged in the mode and upon
the conditions applying to such defendant. (Mode of discharge, see
Gen. Stat. chap. 68.)
§ 159 [186]. May deposit money in lieu of bail. The defend
ant may, before or after giving bail, deposit in the hands of the sher
iff or in court, the sum of money mentioned in the order of arrest ;
whereupon, he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be given, shall
be released.
§ 160 [187]. Sheriff to pay into court money received by him.
The sheriff shall pay into the court the money received by him in
vacation, in lieu of bail, on the first day of the next term. If it be
received during a term, he shall pay it into the court immediately.
§ 161 [188J. Court to make proper orders for its keeping. The
court shall make proper orders for the safe-keeping of money depos
ited in lieu of bail. It may direct the sheriff to keep the money, and,
after judgment in the action, shall order it to be paid to the party
entitled thereto, according to the result.
§ 162 [189]. Sheriff liable for money deposited with him.
Money deposited in the hands of the sheriff, in lieu of bail, or
directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be held upon his official
responsibility ; and he and his sureties shall be liable, and may be
proceeded against, for any default in relation thereto, as in other cases
of delinquency.
£ 163 [190]. Manner of giving bail. Bail may be given by the
defendant on his arrest, or at any time afterward before judgment,
upon giving bond with good surety to the plaintifff, in the presence
of the sheriff, or of the jailer if the defendant have been committed
to jail, to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the action
against the defendant, he will render himself amenable to the process
of the court thereupon. The bond, when accepted, shall be returned
to the clerk's office, and the defendant shall be discharged. (Form of
bond, page IflS; if defective new one may be executed, sec. 682.)
S164 [191]. Qualifications of bail. The bail must be a resident
of this State, and be worth double the sum specified in the order of
arrest, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property in this
State, subject to execution, at least equal in value to that sum. If
two or more become bail, they must, in the aggregate, possess those
qualifications. The bail, if so required by the sheriff, shall make affi
davit of their qualifications before him.
§ 165 [192]. Objections by plaintifff to sufficiency of bail. Ob
jection to bail, for insufficiency, may be made in court, during the
term at which the bail bond is returned, and not afterward, unless
the bond be returned within the last three days of the term ; in
which case, the motion may be made on the first day of the succeed
ing term. The motion can not be made without notice thereof to the
officer who accepted the bond. And if the notice be adjudged unrea
sonable, the court may continue the motion to some day in the same
or the next succeeding term.
§ 166 [193]. When officer exonerated from liability. If the
motion be not made, or the bail be not thereupon adjudged insuffi
cient, the officer shall be exonerated from liability by reason of the
insufficiency of the bail.
§ 167 [194]. Proceedings if bail adjudged insufficient. Judg
ment that bail is insufficient shall not release them, but an order shall
forthwith be made to re-arrest the defendant ; and, thereupon, the
same proceedings may be had, and with the like effect, as are directed
upon an order of arrest.
§ 168 [195]. When and how defendant released by taking
oath of insolvency. Upon judgments in actions in which the
defendant has been arrested and held to bail, and in which the order
of arrest has not been vacated, an execution against the body of the
defendant may be issued, upon which the same proceedings shall be
had, and the defendant shall be dealt with in the same manner, as is
provided by law in the civil actions in which executions may be issued
against the body of the defendant; except that the oath of insolv
ency, upon reasonable notice, may be taken at any time after the
arrest, by delivering to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorLey, a schedule
of the property intended to be surrendered, although said schedule
may not have been delivered ten days before the taking of such oath.
This exception shall also apply to section 158 of this Code. (Sec
General Statutes, chapter 58, as to oath of insolvency ; form of execu
tion against body of defendant, page 417.)
$ 169 [196]. Surrender of defendant discharges bail. A sur
render of the defendant to the sheriff of the county in which he was
arrested, with a delivery to him of a certified copy of the order of
arrest and of the bail bond by the defendant, or by his bail, at any
time before the liability of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail.
The sheriff shall give to the bail a written acknowledgment of the
surrender, and commit the defendant to the jail of his county, with
his order indorsed upon the copy of the bail bond delivered to the
jailer.
§ 170 [197]. Bail may arrest or have defendant arrested.
For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail may, at any
time or place, arrest him, or authorize, in writing, indorsed upon a
copy of the order of arrest and bail bond, the sheriff or any consta
ble to do so.
§171 [198]. How liability of bail fixed. A return of "not
found " upon an execution against the body of the defendant, placed
in the hands of the sheriff of the county in which ho was arrested,
within twenty days after it might have issued upon the judgment,
shall be necessary to fix the liability of the bail, which shall be, to
pay the amount of the judgment and costs.
§ 172 [199]. Action against bail. The bail can be proceeded
against in a separate action only.
§ 173 [200]. What will exonerate bail. He will be exonerated
by the death of the defendant, or his removal from this State under
process of law as a fugitive, before the return-day of the summons
served upon bail in the action to enforce his liability ; or by the
imprisonment of the defendant in the penitentiary ; or his legal dis
charge from the obligations to render himself amenable to the process
of the court ; or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county in
which he was arrested in execution thereof, on or before the returnday
of the summons in the action against the bail, or within such
further time as the court, in which the action is pending, may allow.
If the defendant be confined in any jail of this State, the bail will be
exonerated by delivering to the jailer thereof, at any time before the
return-day of the summons in the action against the bail, a certified
copy of the order of arrest and of the bail bond, with a written order
thereupon to detain the defendant in custody, until discharged by law
from the action in which the bond was given. The jailer shall give
a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the order, which shall
be filed with the original bond.
§ 174 [201]. When the officer is liable. If, after being arrested,
the defendant, without fault on the part of the sheriff, be rescued, or
escape, or hail be not taken or be adjudged insufficient, or a deposit
be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail, unless he shall have
committed the defendant to jail, and obtained a written acknowledg
ment thereof from the jailer ; in which case, the jailer shall be so
liable. Either officer may discharge himself from such liability, In
putting in sufficient bail at any time before judgment.
§ 175 [202]. How liability of officer fixed. The liability of the
officer, as bail, shall be fixed in the manner provided in section 171,
and can be enforced only in a separate action against him, or against
him and his sureties in his official bond, as in other cases of delin
quency.
§ 176 [203]. Liability of bail to officer. Bail, judged insuf
ficient, shall be liable to the officer for the damages he may sustain
by reason of such insufficiency.
§ 177 [204]. Defendant may apply for reduction of bail or
vacation of order of arrest. A defendant, against whom an order
of arrest has been obtained, may, at any time before judgment in the
action, and before a decision of a motion on account of the insuffi
ciency of the bail, apply to the court, or, in vacation and before exe
cuting a bail bond, to the judge thereof, or to any circuit judge, or
to the presiding judge of the county court, to vacate the order of
arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of theapplication
shall be given to the plaintifff. If satisfied that the bail
ought not to have been required, or that the sum for which it was
demanded is too large, the court, or judge, may vacate the order of
arrest, or reduce the amount of bail. The decision of the motion
shall be final in the action, but shall not affect the rights of the parties
in any other action. Upon the vacation of tbe order of arrest, the
defendant shall be discharged, or the bail bond, if any be given, shall
be canceled. (Notice may be serrrd on attorney, sec. 6-11.)
§ 178 [205]. Motion may be supported, and opposed by affi
davits. If the motion be supported by affidavits or other evidence
out of the record the plaintifff may oppose it by affidavits or other
evidence, in addition to that on which the order of arrest wa»
obtained. (Person on whose affidavit order issued may be examined,
sec. 548.)
§ 179 [206]. Scire facias against bail abolished. The writ of
xcire facias against bail is abolished.
§180 [207]. Plaintiff may claim immediate delivery. The
plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of specific personal
property may, at the commencement of the action, or at any time
before judgment, claim the immediate delivery thereof, as is herein
provided.
§ 181 [208]. When clerk shall issue order; requisites of affi
davit for. An order for the delivery of property to the plaintifff
shall be made by the clerk, when an affidavit of the plaintifff is filed
in his office, showing—
1. A particular description of the property claimed.
2. Its actual value and the damages which the affiant believes
the plaintifff ought to recover for the detention thereof.
3. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property, or has a
special ownership or interest therein —stating the facts in relation
thereto—and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of
the property.
4. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
5. That it has not been taken for a tax or fine against the
plaintifff, or under any order or judgment of a court against him ;
nor seized under an execution, distress- warrant, or attachment
against his property ; or, if so seized, that it is, by statute,
exempt from such seizure.
6. That the plaintifff's cause of action has accrued within one
year. If the action be brought to recover property taken under
an execution or distress-warrant or attachment, the affidavit must
state the fact of the taking and the nature of the process under
which it was done. {Form of affidavit, page 408 ; how, and before
whom, made, secs. 551, 549; wken by agent or attorney, sec. 550 ;
when may issue on holiday, sec. 665 ; trial of, and judgment in
action, secs. 330, 388.)
§ 182 [209]. Value of each article to be stated. If the delivery
of several articles of property be claimed, the affidavit must state
the value of each.
§ 183 [210]. Bequisites of order; when returnable. The order
for the delivery of the property to the plaintifff shall be addressed
and delivered, with a copy thereof to the sheriff. It shall state the
names of the parties to the action, and the court in which it is
brought or pending, and direct the sheriff to take the property—
describing it, and stating its value, as in the affidavit of the plaintifff
—and deliver it to him, and to make return of the order on a day to
be named therein. The order shall be made returnable as an order
of arrest is directed to be returned. (Form of order, page 409 ; order
may be addressed and delivered to other officer, or person, secs. 667, 668;
must indorse time of reception, sec. 674; when returnable, sec. 156.)
§ 184 [211]. Bond to be executed before order complied with.
The order shall not be complied with by the sheriff, until there has
been executed in his presence, by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff', a bond to the defendant, to the effect that the plaintifff
shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall perform the judg
ment of the court therein, by returning the property, if a return
thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying such sums of money as
may be adjudged against him in the action, not exceeding double the
value of the property and the costs of the action. Any person
establishing a claim to the property, pursuant to the provisions of
section 29, shall be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of said
bond. (Form of bond, page Jfi9. If defective, new one may be exe
cuted, 68.U Sureties may be sworn ; qualifications of, sees. 683, 684).
% 185 [212]. Provisions of bond, if action against officer.
If the action be brought against a sheriff, or other officer, to recover
the possession of property taken by him under an attachment or
,execution against a person other than the plaintifff, or under a distress
warrant, the bond provided for in section 184 shall be to the effect
that the plaintifff shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall
perform the judgment of the court therein, by returning the property,
if a return thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying to the defendant,
or to the plaintifff in the attachment or execution, or party who sued
out the distress warrant, as may bo directed by the court, such sums
of money us may be adjudged against the plaintifff in the action, not
exceeding double the value of the property and the costs of the action.
{Form of bond, page J+1O. Tenant may briny action for delivery
against plaintifff' in distress warrant, sec. 33.)
§ 186 [213]. How order executed. The sheriff shall execute
the order by taking the property therein mentioned, if it be found
in the possession of the defendant or of his agent, or of any other
person who obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly
or indirectly, after the order was placed in the sheriff's hands. He
shall also deliver a copy of the order to the defendant, or to the
person from whose possessions the property is taken ; or, if neither
can be found, he shall leave it at the usual place of abode of either,
with some person of the age of sixteen years or over. (When may
be executed on holiday, sec. 665. May break and enter building to ex
ecute, sec. 675.)
§ 187 [214]. When officer shall deliver property to plaintifff.
If the affidavit of the plaintifff state that the property was taken
under an attachment, execution or distress warrant, the sheriff shall
deliver it to the plaintifff. In every other case he shall retain the
property for two days, unless the bond mentioned in the succeeding
section be sooner executed.
§ 188 [215]. How defendant may retain property. Within
two days after the taking of the property by the sheriff, the defend
ant, or any one for him, may, if the property was not taken under an
attachment, execution or distress warrant, cause a bond to be executed
to the plaintifff, in the presence of the sheriff, by one or more suffi
cient sureties, in double the value of the property, to the effect that
the defendant shall perform the judgment of the court in the action ;
whereupon, the sheriff shall restore the property to the defendant, or
to the persoli in whose possession it was found. If such bond be not
executed within the time above limited the sheriff shall deliver the
property to the plaintifff. He shall return the bonds with the order.
{Form of bond, page ^1U ; sec references under sec. 184.)
§ 189 [216]. Officer may have property appraised. Before tak
ing any bond, upon the suggestion of the plaintifff that the value of
the property is not truly stated in the order for its delivery, or upon
such suggestion of the defendant, and upon his producing the prop
erty to the sheriff, he shall select three disinterested housekeepers to
appraise the same, under oath to be administered by him—whose
appraisement, indorsed upon the order, shall be regarded as the value
of the property, in taking the bond. (Form of appraisement, page
Ul.)
§ 190 [217]. Officer allowed for keeping property. The sheriff
shall safely keep the property, and shall be allowed by the court the
necessary expenses of doing so, to be paid by the plaintifff and taxed
in the costs.
§ 191 [218]. Proceedings when property is claimed by
stranger. If another person than the defendant or his agent claim
the property taken by the sheriff, and deliver to the sheriff his affi
davit that he is entitled to the possession thereof, the sheriff shall not
be bound to keep it, or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless he shall,
within two days after the delivery to him, or to his agent or attorney,
by the sheriff, of a copy of the affidavit, indemnify the sheriff against
the claim, by a bond executed by one or more sufficient sureties, in
double the value of the property. No claim to such property by any
other person than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against
the sheriff, unless so made. He shall return the affidavit of the
claimant, with his proceedings thereon, to the clerk's office. (Form
of bond, page 410 ; see references under, sec. 184.)
§ 192 [219]. Order may be issued to any county. An order
may, at any time before judgment, be directed to any county for the
delivery of the property claimed. And several orders may issue at
the same time, or Successively, at the option of the plaintifff; but only
one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by
the court.
§ 193 [220]. Defendant may be required to disclose situation
of property. If it appear from the affidavit of the plaintifff, or the
return of the order of delivery, that the property claimed has been
disposed of or concealed so that the order can not be executed, the
court may compel the attendance of the defendant examine him on
oath as to the situation of the property, and punish a disobedience of
its orders in this respect as in cases of contempt. (Plaintiff may
obtain attachment, sec. 194-3.)
§ 194 [221]. In action for money or property. The plaintifff
may, at or after the commencement of an action, have an attachment
against the property of the defendant, including garnishees as is provided i11 section 227, as a security for the satisfaction of such judg
ment as may be recovered—
First : In an action for the recovery of money against—
1. A defendant, who is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident
of the State; or,
2. Who has been absent herefrom four mouths; or,
3. lias departed herefrom with intent to defraud his credit
ors; or,
4. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of
a summons ; or,
5. So conceals himself that a summons can not be served upon
him ; or,
6. Is about to remove, or has removed, his property, or a mate
rial part thereof, out of this State, not leaving enough therein to
satisfy the plaintifff's claim, or the claims of said defendant's cred
itors; or,
7. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of, his property,
or suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the fraudulent intent
to cheat, hinder, or delay, his creditors ; or,
8. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of, his prop
erty, with such intent. But an attachment shall not be granted
on the ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a
non-resident of this State, for any claim other than a debt or
demand arising upon a contract, express or implied, or a judg
ment or award.
Second: In an action for the recovery of money due upon a
contract, judgment, or award, if the defendant have no property
in this State subject to execution, or not enough thereof to satisfy
the plaintifff's demand, and the collection of the demand will be
endangered by delay in obtaining judgment or a return of no
property found.
Third: In an action to recover the possession of personal
property which has been ordered to be delivered to the plaintifff,
and which property, or part whereof, has been disposed of, con
cealed, or removed, so that the order for its delivery can not be
executed by the sheriff.
§ 195. Attachments for rent. The provisions of chapter 66, arti
cle 2, of the General Statutes, concerning attachments for rent, are
adopted as part of this Code, subject to any modifications herein
contained. (Sec these provisions on pages 867-874.)
SUBDIVISION II.
How an Attachment is Obtained.
? 196. When clerk shall issue attachment—requisites of affidavit.
\ 197. When authorized by officers' return.
? 198. Attachment shall not issue until bond executed.
\ 199. How attachment directed—requisites of—when returnable.
\ 200. Certain sections of General Statutes applicable.
\ 201. Attachment may be issued to any county.
§ 196 [222]. When clerk shall issue attachment—requisites of
affidavits. An order of attachment shall be made by the clerk of
the court in which the action is brought or pending, in any case mentioned in section 194, sub-sections 1 and 2, if an affidavit of the plain
tiff be filed in his office, showing—
1. The nature of the plaintifff's claim.
2. That it is just.
8. The sum which the affiant believes the plaintifff ought to
recover ; and
4. The existence of any of the grounds for an attachment men
tioned in sub-sections 1 and 2 of section 194; or, in the case men
tioned in sub-section 3 of section 194, if it be shown by such affi
davit. or by the return of the sheriff' upon the order for the
delivery of the property claimed, that the facts mentioned in that
subdivision exist. (Form of affidavit, page 411; how and before
'whom made, secs. 551,549 ; when by agent or attorney, sec. 550 ;
may be amended, sec. 268-2 ; when order may issue on holiday,
sec. 660.)
§ 197 [223]. When authorized by officer's return. A return
by the sheriff upon a summons against a defendant, that he has left
the county to avoid the service of the summons, or has concealed him
self therein for that purpose, is equivalent to the statement of the
fact in the plaintifff's affidavit.
§ 198 [224]. Attachment shall not issue until bond executed.
The order of attachment shall not be issued by the clerk, until a bond
has been executed in his office by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff' to the effect that the plaintifff shall pay to the defendant
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintifff's claim. {Form of bond, page 411; if defective hew one
may be executed, sec. 682 ; sureties may be sworn, qualifications of, sees.
083,684; additional security may be required, sec. 236.)
§ 199 [225]. How attachment directed—requisites of—when
returnable. The order of attachment shall be directed and delivered
to the sheriff, with as many copies thereof as the plaintifff may direct.
It shall require him to attach and safely keep the property of the
defendant in his county not exempt from execution, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the plaintifff's claim specified in his affidavit,
which shall be stated in the order, and the probable costs of the
action, not exceeding thirty dollars; also, to summon the garnishees
to answer in the action on the return-day of the order, and to make
due return thereof. The order shall be made returnable as an order
of arrest is directed to be returned. (Form of order, page 411 ; offi
cer must indorse time of reception, sec. 674 ; may °e directed to, and
executed by, other officers, or person, secs. 667, 668.)
§ 200. Certain sections of General Statutes applicable, The
provisions of sections 5, 6, 7, and 8, of article XIII. of chapter 38, of
the General Statutes, are made applicable to attachments under this
Code. (These sections of Statute relate to exemptions.)
§ 201 [226]. Attachment may be issued to any county. Or
ders of attachment may be issued to the sheriff of any county; and
several of them may, at the option of the plaintifff, be issued at the
same time or in succession. But .such only as have been executed in
whole or in part shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed
by the court.
§ 202 [227]. Precedence of attachments. Several orders of
attachment against a defendant shall have precedence according to
the time of their delivery to the sheriff, subject to the provisions of
section 207.
§ 203 [228]. Manner of executing. The order of attachment
shall be executed by the sheriff without delay in the following man
ner—
1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant thereof,
or, if there bo no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a
copy of the order.
2. Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, by tak
ing it into his custody and holding it subject to the order of the
court; or, if it be held by another officer under process or under
a distress for taxes, by delivering to hint a copy of the order, with
a notice specifying the property attached.
3. Upon other personal property, by delivering a copy of the
order, with a notice specifying the property attached, to the per
son holding it; or, as to a debt or demand, to the person owing
it ; or, as to stock in a corporation, or property held, or a debt or
demand owing, by it, to the officer or agent upon whom a sum
mons may be served according to the provisions of section 51,
and by summoning the person or corporation to answer as a gar
nishee in the action. The sheriff shall deliver copies to, and sum
mon, such persons as garnishees, as the plaintifff may direct.
Amena(men! of'May 15, 1886 : § 1. That sub-section 3 of section
203 of the Civil Code of Practice be amended by adding at the
close thereof the following words : " But no notice need be given
in any case describing or specifying the debt or demand attached,
but only a notice that the person or corporation to whom the
order of attachment is delivered is summoned to answer as a gar
nishee on or before the day and time on which the case is set for
trial." (Form of notice, page 41-'; when officer may execute on hol
iday, sec. 66o ; may break and enter building to execute, sec 675 ;
claimant of property may be made party, sec. £9.)
§ 204. Duty of officer, on whom executed. It shall be the duty
of every officer upon whom an order of attachment may be executed
pursuant to section 203, sub-section 2, to furnish an inventory and
appraisement of the attached property held by him, or copies thereof,
and a statement of the distress or process under which, and of the
sum for which, it is held, to the officer executing the attachment; and
to hold so much of the attached property, or of its proceeds, as may
not be necessary to satisfy such process or distress, subject to the
order of the court from which the attachment issued ; and his failure
to perform either of those duties may be punished by the court as a
contempt.
§ 205 [229]. Duty of garnishee, on whom executed. It shall
be the duty of every person mentioned in sub-section 3 of section 203,
to whom the sheriff shall apply therefore, to furnish him a certificate
of the number of shares of the defendant in the stock of the corpo
ration, or a description of the property held by such corporation or
person for the benefit of the defendant, or belonging to him, or the
amount of the debt owing to the defendant, by such corporation or
person, whether due or not ; and a failure to perform this duty may
be punished by the court as a contempt.
§ 206 [280]. Personalty to be first taken. The defendant's per
sonal property shall be first taken under an attachment; if enough
thereof be not found, then his real property.
§ 207 [231]. How executed on fund in court. If the property to
be attached be a fund in court, the attachment shall be executed by
leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with a notice
specifying the fund ; and if several orders of attachment be executed
upon such fund on the same day, they shall be satisfied out of it
ratably.
§ 208 [232]. How executed on interest of defendant, in prop
erty held jointly with others. The sheriff shall not, in executing
an attachment upon personal property held by the defendant in the
attachment jointly or in common with another person, take posses
sion of such property, until a bond be executed to such other person,
by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintifff, to the effect that he
shall pay to such person the damages he may sustain by the wrong
ful suing out of the order, not exceeding double the amount of the
plaintifff's claim. (Form of bond, page J^lti; if defective new one may
be executed, sec. 682; sureties may be sworn, qualifications of, secs.
683,684.)
§ 209. Court may subject whole of property under attach
ment against joint owner. In an action against joint debt
ors, in wbich an interest in joint property is attached under an order
of attachment against only part of them, if judgment be rendered
against all of the defendants, and the attachment be sustained, the
court may subject the whole of the joint property, then undisposed
of, to the satisfaction of the judgment. (Meaning of "joint prop
erty," sec. 732-29.)
§ 210. Proceedings if attachments from different courts,
levied on same property. If attachments, levied on the same prop
erty, in whole or in part, be pending in different courts—
1. If the courts be of equal jurisdiction, either of them, or
during vacation the judge thereof, may order the removal of so
many of said attachments, and of the actions in which they may
have been issued, as may be necessary to have all of them in one
of said courts.
2. If the courts be not of equal jurisdiction, one of said courts
of superior jurisdiction, or the judge thereof during vacation,
may make said order of removal to one of said courts of superior
jurisdiction.
3. Such order may be made on the motion of any party to
either of said actions, after reasonable notice to all other par
ties to said actions or to their attorneys ; and affidavits may be
read for or against the motion.
4. Clerks of courts shall, pursuant to such order, immediately
remove the papers in the case therein mentioned, accompanied
by certified copies of the orders made therein ; and, if the remo
val be to another county, the clerk shall have the fees allowed
by law for like services in cases of change of venue —to be paid
in advance by the applicant for the removal, and to be taxed in
the costs, and finally paid out of the attached funds, or by such of
the parties as the court may order.
§ 211. Officer may require bond of indemnity. If an officer
who levies, or is required to levy, an attachment upon personal prop
erty doubt whether it is subject to the attachment, he may give to the
plaintifff therein, or to his agent or attorney, written notice that an
indemnifying bond is required. If the plaintifff cause a bond to be
executed, with 'good surety, to be approved by the officer, or the
judge of the court from which the attachment issued, to the effect
that the obligors will indemnify the officer against any damage he
may sustain by reason of the levy of the attachment, such officer
shall proceed to execute the attachment. If the attachment have not
been levied, the officer may refuse to levy it unless bond be executed
as above provided; or, if the attachment have been levied, the officer
may release the property, unless such bond be executed within a
reasonable time after the notice requiring it shall have been given.
{Form of bond, page sec references under, sec. 208.)
§ 212 [233]. Lien created by attachment. An attachment binds
the defendant's property, in the county, which might be seized under
an execution against him, from the time of the delivery of the order
to the sheriff', in the same manner as an execution would bind it;
and the lien ,of the plaintifff is completed upon any property or
demand of the defendant by executing the order upon it in the man
ner directed in this article.
§ 213 [234]. When officer may pursue and attach in another
county. If, after an order of attachment has been placed in the
hands of the sheriff", any property of the defendant be removed from
the county, the sheriff' may pursue and attach it in another county
within twenty-four hours after the removal.
§ 214 [235]. Person in possession may retain property by
giving bond. The sheriff may deliver any attached property to
the person in whose possession it is found, upon the execution, in
the presence of the sheriff", of a bond to the plaintifff", by such person,
with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the obligors
are bound, in double the value of the property, that the defendant
shall perform the judgment of the court in the action, or that the
property or its value shall be forthcoming and subject to the order
of the court. (Form of bond, page 413; if defective, new one may be exe
cuted, sec. 68;2 ; sureties may be sworn, qualifications of, secs. 683, 684.)
§ 215 [236]. Property retained to be appraised. For the pur
pose of taking this bond, the sheriff shall cause the property to be
appraised by three disinterested housekeepers, to be selected and
sworn by him to make a fair appraisement, and who shall indorse
their appraisement on the order of attachment. (Form of appraise
ment, page 413.)
§ 216 [237]. What defense not allowed in action on bond. In
•siny proceeding on this bond it shall not be a defense that the property
was not subject to the attachment.
§ 217 [238]. What officers return must show. The sheriff shall
return upon every order of attachment what he has done under it.
The return must show the property attached, when it was attached,
and the disposition made of it. If garnishees be summoned, their
names and the time when each was summoned must be stated. And
If real property be attached, the sheriff shall describe it with suffi
cient certainty to identify it, and, if he can do so, he shall refer to
the deed or title under which the defendant holds it. He shall return,
with the order, all bonds taken under it.
§ 218 [23t>]. Preservation, use and sale of attached property.
The court in which the action is pending, or during vacation the
judge thereof, or, if he be absent from the county, the presiding
judge of the county court, shall make proper orders for the preser
vation and use of attached property ; and for the sale of it, if, by
reason of its perishable nature, or the cost of keeping it, a sale of it
would be beneficial to the parties; and for the collection and pay
ment into court of attached funds and choses in action ; and, for any
of those purposes, may make an order appointing a receiver, with
authority to act as the court may direct—who shall give bond with
good surety, to be approved by the court or judge, for the faithful
performance of his duties : but neither of those orders shall be made
during vacation, except after reasonable notice, in writing, of the time
and place of the application therefore, to the opposite party or his
attorney, if either of them reside in the county in which the action
is pending. Such sale shall be made publicly, after advertisement,
and upon such terms of credit, with good security, as the court or
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may
direct. Moneys received by the sheriff upon sales of attached prop
erty, or from garnishees, shall be held and paid by him under the
same requirements and responsibilities of himself and his sureties as
are provided in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
§ 219 [240]. Officer allowed expense of keeping attached
property. The sheriff or receiver shall be allowed by the court the
necessary expenses of keeping the attached property, to be paid by
the plaintifff and taxed in the costs. In the case of a steamboat
attached, he may be allowed, for his own superintendence thereof,
not exceeding one dollar per day, and such sums aB he may actually
expend for the safe-keeping of the boat, not to exceed, for the pay of
persons employed, the usual wages of a mate and a deck-hand, unless
more than two persons have been employed by the order of the court
or of the judge thereof.
§ 220 [241]. Defendant and claimant required to give infor
mation concerning. The court may require the defendant, or the
claimant of any attached property, to appear before it, and give
information, on oath, concerning the property : and if it appear from
the plaintifff's affidavit, or the return of an order of attachment, that
no property, or not enough to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, is known
to the plaintifff or the officer, on which the attachment can be exe
cuted, the court may order the defendant to attend before it and give
information, on oath, respecting his property; and if it also appear
from the affidavit, that a person, other than the defendant, has in his
possession property of the defendant, or evidences of debt, the court
may require such person to appear before it, and give information,
on oath, respecting the same ; and the court may enforce those orders
by process as in cases of contempt.
§ 221 [242]. Defendant may give bond and discharge attach
ment. It' the defendant, before judgment, cause a bond to be exe
cuted to the plaintifff by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by
the court, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution be
made of any property taken under it or of the proceeds thereof.
(Form of bond, page 413; if bond defective, new one may be executed, sec.
682; sureties may be sworn, qualifications of, secs. 0S3, 684.)
§ 222 [243]. Sheriff or clerk may take bond. The bond men
tioned in the last section may, in vacation, be executed in the pres
ence of the sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or,
after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect
upon the attachment as if executed in court —the sureties, in either
case, to be approved by the officer.
§ 223 [244]. To whom garnishee may pay money—costs
against. The garnishee may pay the money owing to the defendant
by him, not exceeding the plaintifff's claim and costs, to the sheriff
having in his hands the order of attachment, or into the court ; and
to that extent he shall be discharged from liability to the defendant.
He shall not be subjected to costs beyond those caused by his resist
ance of the claim against him ; and, if he disclose the property of the
defendant in his hands, or the true sum owing by him, and deliver or
pay the same to the sheriff, or according to the order of the court, he
shall be allowed his costs.
§ 224 [245]. Garnishee must appear and answer. Each gar
nishee summoned shall appear. The appearance maybe in person ;
or by the affidavit of the garnishee filed in court disclosing truly the
sum owing by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and the
property of the defendant in the possession or under the control of
the garnishee ; and, in the case of a corporation, any shares of stocks
therein, held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the
service of the order of attachment.
§ 225 [246]. Proceedings if garnishee indebted to defendant.
If a garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee,
appear in person, he may be examined on oath ; and, if it be discov
ered on such examination that, at the service of the order of attach
ment upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of any property
of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the court may order the
delivery of such property, and the payment, or security for the pay
ment, of the sum owing by the garnishee, into court, or to such per.
son as it may direct—who shall give bond, with security, for the same ;
or the court may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the
sum owing, upon the execution of a bond, with one or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that the sum shall be paid, or the property be
forthcoming, as the court may direct. Performance of such bonds,
for the forthcoming of property, may be enforced as in cases of con
tempt : upon such bonds for payment of money, execution may be
issued as upon replevin-bonds.
§ 226 [247]. Proceedings if garnishee fail to answer. If such
garnishee, or officer, make default, by not appearing, the court may,
on the motion of the plaintifff, compel him to appear in person for
examination, by process as in cases of contempt ; or it may hear proof
of any debt owing or property held by the garnishee to or for the
defendant, and make such order in relation thereto, as if what is
60 proved had appeared on the examination of the garnishee or
officer.
§ 227 [248]. Plaintiff may bring action against garnishee.
If a garnishee fail to make a disclosure, satisfactory to the plaintifff,
the latter may bring an action against him, by petition or amended
petition, in the same manner, and the proceedings therein shall be the
same as in other actions; and the plaintifff may procure an order of
attachment in the same manner, and the proceedings thereupon shall
be the same, as is hereinbefore and hereinafter authorized concerning
attachments—except that the plaintifff's affidavit shall state, in addi
tion to the facts required to be stated in section 196, the sum which
the defendant owes to the plaintifff's debtor ; and the plaintifff shall
not be entitled to attach for or recover more than that sum and costs
nor more than the amount of the plaintifff's claim against his debtor
and costs.
§ 228 [249]. Effect of judgment for defendant. If judgment
be rendered in the action for the defendant, or if the attachment be
discharged—
1. The property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to
him.
2. The proceedings against a garnishee shall be dismissed.
{Judgment for defendant attachment shall be discharged, sec. 260.)
§ 229 [250]. Effect of judgment for plaintifff. If judgment be
rendered for the plaintifff, the court shall apply in satisfaction
thereof—
1. Moneys arising from property sold pending the litigation.
2. Proceeds of the debts and funds attached in the hands of
the garnishee.
If these be not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim, the
court shall order a sale, by the sheriff, of any other attached
property which may be under its control, in the following order:
1. Personal property.
2. Real property, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the plaintifff's claim. {Judgment for ,plaintifff, attachment
sustained—xohen, sec. 261 ; terms of sale, sec. 696.)
§ 230 [251]. Sale of real property attached. No order for the
sale of real property seized under attachment shall be made in any
action in which the defendant has not appeared, or been actually
summoned, until an affidavit of the plaintifff, or of his agent or attoruey,
has been filed, to the effect that the defendant has no personal
property, or not enough to satisfy the claim of the plaintifff, in this
State, known to the affiant.
§ 231 [252]. Surplus to be returned to defendant. Any sur
plus of the attached property, or of its proceeds, shall be returned to
the defendant.
§ 232 [254]. Court may compel delivery of attached property
and payment of proceeds. The court may, by summary proceed
ings, compel the delivery to the sheriff, for sale, of any attached
property, for which a bond may have been given; or, for such sums
of money as may be due upon such bonds, execution may issue as
upon replevin-bonds. {Provisions concerning summary procecdings,
secs. 4U to U9.)
§ 233 [255]. Court may make proper orders respecting prop
erty and proceeds. The court may, from time to time, make and
enforce proper orders respecting the property, sales, and the confirm
ation thereof; and the application and payment of the monies col
lected.
§ 234 [256]. Sheriff may be ordered to retake attached prop
erty. It may order the sheriff to re-possess himself, for the purpose
of selling it, of any attached property which may have passed out of
his hands without having been sold or converted into money ; and the
sheriff shall, under such order, have the same power to take the
property as upon an order of attachment.
§ 235 [257]. Reference of attachment to commissioner. If
several attachments be executed on the same property, the court, on
the motion of any one of the attaching plaintifffs, may order a refer
ence to a commissioner, to ascertain and report the amounts and
priorities of the several attachments. (If from different courts may be
removed to one court, sec. 210-)
§ 236 [258]. Plaintiff may be required to give additional
security. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after
reasonable notice to the plaintifff, move the court for additional secur
ity on the part of the plaintifff; and if, on such motion, the court be
satisfied that the surety in the plaintifff's bond have died or removed
from this State, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may
vacate the order of attachment and direct restitution of any property
taken under it, unless fn a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security be given by the plaintifff.
ARTICLE II.
Attachments in Certain Actions.
\ 237. Action before debt matures—who may institute, and when,
fj 238. How plaintifff may obtain attachment or order of arrest.
\ 239. Requisites of attachment and order.
\ 240. Bond must be executed before issual.
i
\ 241. Certain provisions regulating arrests and attachments apply.
| 242. Judgment before debt due—creditor not liable for costs.
\ 248. Form of judgment in action by creditor.
\ 244. Form of judgment in action by surety.
\ 245. Form of judgment in action by joint debtor.
\ 246. Money of defendant—how disposed of.
\ 247. General provisions concerning judgments.
\ 248. Joint debtor must pay his part before judgment in his favor.
§ 237 [259]. Action before debt matures—who may insti
tute, and when. Before a debt or liability, upon a contract, becomes
due or matures, an equitable action, for indemnity, may be brought
by a creditor against his debtor; by a surety against his principal; or
by one who is jointly liable with another, for such debt or liability,
against the latter—
1. If the defendant be about to depart from this State, and,
with intent to defraud his creditors, have concealed, or removed
from this State, his property, or so much thereof that the pro
cess of court, after judgment, can not be executed.
2. If there exist against the defendant any of the grounds for
an attachment which are mentioned in sub-sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
and 8, of section 194. (Action by joint debtor or surety after
debt matures, secs. 661, 662.)
§ 238 [260]. How plaintifff may obtain attachment or order
of arrest. In such action, if the petition, verified by the oath of the
plaintifff, show the nature and amount of the demand, and wheu
it will mature, the court in which the action is pending, or any circuit
judge, or the presiding judge of the county court, may grant—
1. An order for the arrest of the defendant, if the petition also
state the facts mentioned in sub-section 1 of section 237.
2. An attachment against the property of the defendant, if the
petition also show the existence of any of the grounds specified
in sub-section 2 of section 237.
Amendment of April 5, 1888: § 1. That section 238 of the
Civil Code of Practice be and the same is hereby amended by
inserting the words, "or the clerk thereof," in the third line of
said section after the word " pending," and before the word
" or." ( When two justices may grant, sec. 689.)
§ 239 [261]. Requisites of attachment and order. The order
of arrest, or attachment, shall specify the sum for which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's claim and the
probable costs of the action. (Forms of orders, pages 408, 4.ll. )
§ 240 [262]. Bond must be executed before issual. Such order
of arrest, or attachment, shall not be issued by the clerk until, if it
be an order of arrest, bond be executed pursuant to section 154 ; nor,
if it be an order of attachment, until bond be executed pursuant to
section 198. ( When may issue on holiday, sec. 665.)
§ 241 [263]. 1. Certain provisions regulating arrests and
attachments apply. The provisions of Chapter 1, of Title VIII,
subsequent to section 154, shall, so far as applicable, regulate arrests
authorized by this article.
2. The provisions of the first article of this chapter subsequent
to section 198 shall, so far as applicable, regulate attachments,
authorized by this article.
§ 242. 1. Judgment before debt due—creditor not liable for
costs. . Judgment may be rendered, in an action brought pursuant to
section 237, concerning the alleged liability of the defendant, though
it may not have matured.
2. Unless the creditor bring the action, he must be made
defendant, but shall not be liable for costs.
§ 243. Form of judgment in action by creditor. If such action
be brought by the creditor, and judgment be rendered against the
defendant, it shall be, that he pay to the plaintifff the amount of the
judgment ; or, if the demand have not matured, that he pay said
amount at the time of such maturity : and the court shall apply, in
satisfaction of the judgment, monies of the defendant under its con
trol, though the demand have not matured.
§ 244. Form of judgment in action by surety. If such action
be brought by a surety against his principal, and judgment be
rendered against such defendant, it shall be, that he pay to the creditor
the amount of the judgment ; or, if the demand have not matured,
that he so pay said amount at the time of said maturity.
§ 245. Form of judgment in action by joint debtor. If such
action be brought by one who is jointly liable with another, against
the latter, and judgment be rendered against such defendant, it shall
be, that he pay to the creditor so much of his demand as such defend
ant is equitably liable for, as between him and the plaintifff; or, if the
demand have not matured, that he pay said amount at the time of
said maturity.
§ 246. Money of defendant—how disposed of. In actions
mentioned in section 244, or section 245, monies of the defendant
under control of the court shall be applied in satisfaction of the judg
ment when the demand matures, or, with the creditor's consent, befoiv
it matures ; and, until so applied, such monies, and property of the
defendant attached in the action, shall be under the control of the
court.
§ 247. General provisions concerning judgments. In every
action brought pursuant to section 237 —
1. A judgment against the defendant shall include a judgment
for costs in favor of the plaintifff.
2. Such judgments may be enforced as in equitable actions
generally, except that executions upon judgments rendered pur
suant to section 244, or section 245, shall be in favor of the
plaintifff for thie benefit of the creditor, and shall be so indorsed
by the clerk.
3. In rendering judgment before maturity of the demand, the
court shall make an abatement, on account of interest; and shall
make the judgment bear interest from the day of its rendition
until it shall be satisfied, according to the rate of such abatement.
§ 248. Joint debtor must pay his part, before judgment in
his favor. No judgment shall be rendered pursuant to section 245,
until the plaintifff shall have paid into court money enough to sat
isfy the residue of the creditor's demand ; or shall have filed in court
the creditor's receipt therefore, or his release or assignment to the
plaintifff of his right to the demand, or to said residue.
ARTICLE III.
Specific Attachments.
\ 249. In action to enforce lien on, or for recovery, partition or sale of personalty.
\ 250. In action by vendor to cancel fraudulent purchase—grounds of.
\ 2b\. By whom granted, and on what terms.
$ 252. Plaintiff must execute bond.
\ 253. Attachment not to issue until bond executed.
\ 254. Requisites of order—how executed.
\ 255. Disposition of attached property.
\ 256. When officer may pursue and re-take in another county.
\ 257. Defendant may be required to give information concerning.
\ 258. Provisions of Article I, this chapter, apply.
§ 249 [273]. In action to enforce lien on, or for recovery,
partition or sale of personalty. In an action to enforce a
mortgage of, or lien upon, personal property ; or, for the recovery,
partition, or sale, of such property ; or, by a plaintifff having a
future estate or interest therein for the security of his rights, if
it satisfactorily appear, from a verified petition, or from affidavits, or
the proofs in the cause, that the plaintifff has a just claim, and that
the property is about to be sold, concealed, or removed from the
State; or if the plaintifff state on oath that he has reasonable cause
to believe and does believe that, unless prevented by the court, the
property will be sold, concealed, or removed from the State, an attach
ment may be granted against the property. (How and before whom
affidavit made, secs. 551, 5Jfi ; when by agent or attorney, sec. 550.)
§ 250 [274]. In action by vendor to cancel fraudulent pur
chase—grounds of. In an action by a vendor of property fraudu
lently purchased, to vacate the contract and have a restoration of the
property or compensation therefore, if the petition show Buch fraudu
lent purchase, and the amount of the plaintifff's claim, and be verified
by his oath, an attachment against the property may be granted.
§ 251 [275]. By whom granted, and on what terms. The at
tachments in the cases mentioned in sections 249 and 250 may be
granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by the judge
thereof, or any circuit judge, or the presiding judge of the county
court, upon such terms and conditions as to security, on the part of
the plaintifff, for the damages which may be occasioned by them, and.
with such directions as to the disposition to be made of the attached
property, as may be just and proper under the circumstances of each
case. ( When two justices may grant, sec. 689.)
§ 252 [276]. Plaintiff must execute bond. In every case, the
plaintifff shall be required to give bond, with surety, for the damages
to the defendant, in an adequate sum to be specified in the order
granting the attachment; and, if proper, the court or judge may
direct that the defendant, or person in possession of the attached
property, shall be permitted to retain it, upon giving such bond with
surety, and for such sum, as the court or judge may prescribe.
§ 253 [277]. Attachment not to issue until bond executed.
No order of attachment shall be issued by the clerk until the bond
on the part of the plaintifff, required by the order of the court or
judge, be executed in his office by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff. (When may issue on holiday, sec. 665; sureties may be
sworn, qualifications of, secs. 683, 684.)
§ 254 [278.] Requisites of order—how' executed. The order
of attachment shall describe the specific property against which it is
issued, and the direction of the court or judge, as to the disposition
to be made of the attached property, shall be indorsed upon it. It
shall be directed, executed, and returned, as other orders of attach
ment.
§ 255 [279]. Disposition of attached property. The sheriff
shall make such disposition of the attached property as may be
directed by the court or judge; or, if there be no direction upon the
subject, he shall safely keep the property subject to the order of the
court.
§ 256 [281]. When officer may pursue and retake in another
county. If, after an order of attachment against specific propertyhas been placed in the hands of the sheriff, such property be removed
from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach it in another
county within tweuty-four hours after such removal.
§ 257 [282]. Defendant may be required to give information
concerning. If it appear from the return of the sheriff, or the affi
davit of the plaintifff, that any specific property, against which an
order of attachment is issued has been concealed or removed by the
defendant, the court may require him to attend and be examined on
oath respecting such property, and may enforce its orders in this
respect as in cases of contempt.
§ 258 [283, 284]. Provisions of article one, this chapter apply.
The provisions of the first article of this chapter, not inconsistent
with, nor inapplicable to, the foregoing sections of this article, shall
regulate the proceedings in cases of attachments against specific
property.
ARTICLE IV.
Discharge and Reinstatement of Attachments.
\ 259. When attachment to be sustained or discharged.
{ 260. If judgment for defendant, to be discharged.
\ 261. If judgment for plaintifff, to be sustained unless controverted.
\ 262. If sustained, property applied to pay judgment.
\ 263. How and when defendant may deny grounds of attachment.
\ 264. Evidence admissible on trial of attachment.
{ 265. Motion to'discharge'before judgment.
\ 266. Appeal allowed from final order disposing of.
\ 267. Reinstatement binding, only till final judgment.
\ 268. Defendant may move to discharge —plaintifff may amend affidavit.
\ 269. Time may be allowed for reinstatement.
\ 270. Appellate judge may reinstate.
§ 259 [285]. When attachment to be sustained or discharged.
An attachment obtained at the commencement of an action shall be
sustained or discharged when judgment is rendered in the action^
unless, for sufficient cause, the court extend the time of deciding upon
it. An attachment obtained after the commencement of an action
shall not be sustained until the defendant has had the time for con
troverting it provided in this chapter.
§ 260 [286], If judgment for defendant to be discharged. If
judgment be rendered in favor of the defendant the attachment shall
be discharged. {Effect of sec. 238.)
§ 261 [287]. If judgment for plaintifff to be sustained, unless
controverted. If judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and
no answer or affidavit of the defendant be filed, denying the state
ments of the affidavit upon which the attachment was issued, or
motion made to discharge it, the court shall sustain the attachment.
§ 262 [288]. If sustained property applied to pay judgment.
Upon an attachment being sustained, the property attached, or its
proceeds, or the securities taken upon the attachment, shall, by appro
priate orders, be applied in satisfaction of the judgment. (Order in
which applied, sec. 229.)
§ 263 [289]. How and when defendant may deny grounds of
attachment. The defendant may file his affidavit denying all or any
of the material statements of the affidavit on which the attachment
is issued ; and, thereupon, the attachment shall be considered as con
troverted, and the affidavits of the plaintifff and defendant shall be
regarded as the pleadings concerning the attachment, and have no
other effect. If the attachment was obtained at the commencement
of the action, the defendant may file his affidavit at such time after the
levy of the attachment as is given by this Code for filing his defense
after the service of the summons—which period may be extended by
the court for sufficient cause. (When defense must be filed, sec. 102.)
§ 264 [290]. Evidence admissible on trial of attachment.
The trial of the attachment shall be by the court; and the witnesses
shall be orally examined, except in cases wherein depositions might
be read in an ordinary action. ( When depositions may be read, sec.
554; person on whose affidavit attachment issued may be examined, sec.
54S.)
§ 265 [291]. Motion to discharge before judgment. At any
time before the attachment is sustained the defendant, upon reason
able notice to the plaintifff or his attorney, may move for its discharge ;
and the hearing of such motion may be postponed by the court, upon
sufficient eause, from time to time ; and upon the hearing, if the court
be of opinion that the attachment was obtained without sufficient
cause, or that the grounds of the attachment, being controverted, are
not sustained, it shall be discharged.
§ 266 [292]. Appeal allowed from final order disposing of.
An order for the discharge of an attachment, made at or after the
rendition of judgment in the action, shall be final ; and can not be
reinstated as is authorized by section 270 ; but shall be the subject of
appeal, if the amount in controversy be such as to authorize an
appeal. An order sustaining an attachment shall, in like manner, on
the rendition of judgment in the action, be the subject of appeal.
§ 267 [293]. Reinstatement binding, only, till final judg
ment. The reinstatement of attachments, as provided in section 270,
shall only be binding on the inferior court until judgment; and
when judgment is rendered in the action the inferior court shall make
a disposition of the motion to discharge —which shall, in like manner,
be final.
§ 268 [294]. Defendant may move to discharge—plaintifff
may amend affidavit. The defendant, on reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, may, at any time before the term next after the levy of the
attachment, move the judge of the court, in vacation, to discharge
the attachment, on the ground of its having been issued contrary to
the provisions of article one of this chapter; and the judge, on an
inspection of the papers in the action, or of authenticated copies of
them, shall have the same power of discharging the attachment, by
his written order, filed by the clerk, as he would have in court ; and
shall have like power to permit amendments by the plaintifff.
2. A plaintifff may, by an amended affidavit, conforming to
section 196, cure a defect in the affidavit upon which he obtained
an attachment ; or may state a ground of attachment not men
tioned in his first affidavit, whether it may have existed when he
filed the first affidavit, or may have arisen afterward ; and may
thus acquire a lien upon the attached property, if the proceed
ings conform to law in other respects : but such lien shall not
affect a bona fide right to, or lien previously acquired upon, the
property, by attachment or otherwise.
§ 269 [295]. Time may be allowed for reinstatement. A
plaintifff who desires a reinstatement of an attachment may have an
entry made upon the record, of leave to apply therefore within a
reasonable time, not exceeding twenty days; whereupon, the order
of discharge shall be made, to take effect at the end of the period so
limited, unless the attachment be reinstated in the meantime.
§ 270 [296]. Appellate judge may reinstate. A judge of the
Court of Appeals, if the plaintifff have secured the right to apply for
the reinstatement of an attachment, may, upon an inspection of a
copy of the record, including the evidence read upon the motion to
discharge, reinstate the attachment; and, if the order of reinstate
ment be filed in the clerk's office of the court in which the action is
pending, within the time limited as provided in section 269, the exe
cution of the order of attachment shall proceed ; otherwise, it shall
stand discharged, and restitution shall be made of any property taken
under it. (Judge of Superior Court may reinstate. Sec act creating,
sec. 12, page 377.)
§ 271. Injunction denned. The injunction authorized by this
<Jode is a command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the
final judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional rem
edy ; and, if so allowed, it shall be by order. The writ of injunction
is abolished.
§ 272. Causes for which temporary may be granted. If it
appear from the petition that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining
the commission or continuance of an act which would produce great
or irreparable injury to the plaintifff; or if, during the litigation, it
appear that the defendant is doing, or threatens or is about to do, or
is procuring or suffering to be done, an act, in violation of the plain
tiff's rights, respecting the subject of the action and tending to render
the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act. It may also be granted in any case in which it is
specially authorized by statute. {May be granted in action to settle
estates, sec. 4-36 ; in forcible entry and detainer, sec. 467 ; in procecdings
to stay and vacate judgments, secs. 378, 523 ; to quash execution, sec.
406.)
§ 273 [300, 301]. By whom granted—affidavit for. The injunc
tion may be granted at the commencement of the action, or at any
time before judgment, by the court; or by any circuit judge; or by
the clerk of the court, or the county judge, if the judge of the court
be absent from the county ; or by two justices of the peace, if the
judge and the clerk of the court, and the county judge, be absent
from the county. No injunction shall be granted by any of the fore
going officers, unless it appear from the affidavit of the party apply
ing therefore that it has not been refused by the court ; nor shall such
injunction be granted by a clerk, or county judge, or justices, unless
it appear from such affidavit that it has not been refused by the court
or any circuit judge. (When action commenced, sec. 39 ; lohen agent
or attorney may make affidavit, sec. 550.)
§ 274 [302]. If granted before judgment, subject to further
order. Injunctions granted before judgment shall be subject to the
further order of the court.
§ 275 [304]. Defendant who has answered to be notified. Am
injunction shall not be granted against a defendant who has answered,
unless he have had notice of the application therefore.
§ 276 [305]. In what cases notice not required. An in
junction shall be granted only upon reasonable notice of the time and
place of the application therefore, to the party sought to be enjoined,
unless the court or officer to whom the application is made shall be
satisfied, by the affidavit of the applicant, or by other evidence, that
irreparable injury will result to the applicant if the injunction be not
immediately granted.
§ 277 [306]. Affidavits may be read on application for. On
the hearing of an application for an injunction, of which notice has
been given, each party may read affidavits. (How and before whom
affidavit made, secs. 551, 5^9.)
§ 278 [307]. 1. Injunction bond—terms and amount of. If an
injunction be granted to stay proceedings upon a levy made under
an execution, and the party applying for the injunction desire to dis
charge the levy, he shall execute a bond to the effect that he will
satisfy the execution to the extent to which the injunction may be
dissolved, not exceeding the value of the property released ; and,
upon the execution of such bond, and the issuing of the injunction,
the levy shall be discharged. If he do not desire to release the levy,
he may execute a bond to the effect that, upon a dissolution of the
injunction, in whole or in part, he will have the property, or its value,
forthcoming and subject to the order of the court; and, upon the
execution of such bond, and the issuing of the injunction, the prop
erty levied on shall be delivered to him. For the purpose of ascer
taining the value of the property, it shall be appraised as directed in
section 215.
2. If such injunction extend further than the stay of proceed
ings upon the levy, the party shall give such additional bond as
the court, judge, or officer, granting the injunction may direct.
3. In all other cases, the court, judge, or officer, granting the
injunction shall, in the order granting it, fix the amount of the
bond to be given, and may prescribe its terms. If the terms of
the bond be not so prescribed, it shall be to the effect that the
party giving it will pay to the party enjoined such damages as he
may sustain, if it be finally decided that the injunction ought not
to have been granted.
4. If the injunction be to stay proceedings upon a judgment,
the amount of the bond shall be sufficient to cover, with other
damages, the sum of money for which judgment was rendered,
with five years' interest thereon, and the rent, hire, or value of
the use, for two years, of property for which judgment was
given ; and, in case of personal property, its value also. (Form
of bondf page 414; if defective new one may be executed, sec. 682.)
% 279 [308]. Bond must be executed before order issues.
The order of injunction shall not be issued by the clerk until a bond,
as is required by section 278, with good surety of the party obtaining
the iujunction, shall have been executed in his office. (Sureties may
be sworn, qualifications of, secs. 683, 684; when may issue on holiday,
sec. 665.) § 280 [309]. Sureties in bond to be accepted by clerk. Sure
ties in injunction bonds shall be accepted by the clerk under the same
responsibilities as in other cases of sureties accepted by him.
§ 281 [310]. Requisites of order delivery and service of.
The order of injunction shall be addressed to the party enjoined;
shall state the injunction ; and, if its effect be to discharge a levy
under an execution, it shall so state ; and shall be dated and signed
by the clerk. If it be issued at the commencement of an action, it
shall be indorsed upon the summons, and a copy thereof shall be
delivered to the sheriff. If it be issued during the litigation, it shall
be delivered to him, with as many copies thereof as there are parties
enjoined. The sheriff shall forthwith serve it by delivering a copy
to each party enjoined, and make return thereof on the order. (Form
of order, page 4.15; what officers may execute, sec. 667; when may exe
cute on holiday, sec. 665 ; must indorse time of reception, sec. 674,)
§ 282 [311]. Notice of the application dispenses with service
of order. If notice of the application for an injunction have been
given to the party sought to be enjoined, it shall not be necessary to
serve the order upon him : he is bound by the injunction as soon as
the bond required of the adverse party is executed.
§ 283 [312]. When binding on party. An injunction binds the
party from the time he is informed thereof.
§ 284 [313]. What judgments can not be enjoined. No injunc
tion sliall be granted to stay proceedings upon a judgment of a justice
of the peace, or of a county court, if the value of the matter in dispute
do not exceed twenty-five dollars.
§ 285 [314]. Judgment can only be enjoined in court render
ing. An injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment shall not be
granted, in an action brought by the party seeking the injunction, in
any other court that that in which the judgment was rendered. Nor
shall such injunction be granted, unless the party applying therefore
make affidavit that no injunction has been previously granted to stay
the proceedings on such judgment.
§ 286 [316]. Disobedience of—how punished. Disobedience of
an injunction may be punished by the court; or by the judge thereof
or any circuit jud^e, in vacation, as a contempt. An attachment may
foe issued by the court or judge, upon the production of evidence, by
affidavit, or the breach of the injunction, against the party commit
ting it. And unless he purges the contempt, if in vacation, the judge
may commit him to jail until the sitting of the court, or take a bond
with security for his appearance to answer for the contempt at the
next term of the court, and, in the meantime, to obey the injunction.
§ 287 [317]. Affidavits read on application, to be filed. Affi
davits read upon an application for an injunction shall be filed with
the papers of the case.
§ 288 [318]. Defendant may move for additional security. A
party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable
notice to the adverse party, move the court for additional security;
and, if it appear on such motion that the surety in the injunction
bond has died or removed from this State, or is insufficient, the court
may vacate the order of injunction, unless in a reasonable time suffi
cient security is given.
ARTICLE II.
Dissolution ami Reinstatement of Injunction.
3 289. Motion to dissolve or modify on face of papers.
3 290. To dissolve or modify injunction granted by county judge, justices, or clerk.
?, 291. To dissolve or modify after answer filed.
3 292. Motion to dissolve or modify may be postponed.
<! 29:!. How motion disposed of on hearing.
\ 294. Only one motion to dissolve or modify allowed.
3 295. Assessment of damages on dissolution.
\ 296. Time allowed for reinstatement.
3 297. Appellate judge may reinstate.
§ 289 [319]. Motion to dissolve or modify on face of papers.
The party enjoined may, at any time after reasonable notice to the
plaintifff, move the court. upon the plaintifff's petition and affidavits
alone, to dissolve or modify an injunction of the application for which
no notice was given.
§ 290 [320]. To dissolve or modify injunction granted by
county judge, justices, or clerk. A motion to dissolve or modify
an injunction granted by justices or by a county judge, may, at any
time, after reasonable notice to the plaintifff, be made before the court
or any circuit judge, upon the plaintifff's petition and affidavits alone.
The order of the judge overruling the motion, or dissolving or modi
fying the injunction, with the notice, shall be returned to the office of
the clerk of the court, and the order be obeyed as if made by the
court.
Amendment of February .21, 1884 : § !, That section two hun
dred and ninety of the Civil Code of Practice be, and it is.
hereby, amended by inserting the words " or by the clerk of the
court" after the words "county judge," and before the word
" may " in said section. (Notice may be served on attorney, sec*
0,11.)
§ 291 [321]. To dissolve or modify after answer filed. After
answer filed by the party enjoined, he may give notice to the plaintifff
of a motion to be made to the court, in not less than ten days there
after, upon the whole case, to dissolve or modify the injunction.
Upon such motion, each party may read depositions and other com
petent evidence in writing. The court shall not be bound to take the
answer as true. (Person on whose affidavit injunction granted may be
examined, sec. 548.)
§ 292 [322]. Motion to dissolve or modify may be postponed.
The motion, upon the whole case, to dissolve or modify the injunction,
may be postponed, on the application of either party, to a subsequent
day, or to the next term, if the court be satisfied that, under the cir
cumstances of the case, the delay is proper. If delay be asked in
order to obtain the testimony of a witness, it must appear by affidavit
what facts the witness is expected to prove, that the affiant believea
his testimony will he true, and that it could not have been obtained
by due diligence.
§ 293 [323]. How motion disposed of on hearing. After hear
ing the motion, the court or judge shall overrule it, or dissolve or
modify the injunction, according to the right of the case.
§ 294 [324]. Only one motion to dissolve or modify allowed.
Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction, upon the whole
case, is allowed.
20."} [325]. Assessment of damages on dissolution. Upon the
dissolution, in whole or in part, of an injunction to stay proceedings
upon a judgment, the damages shall be assessed by the court; which
may hear the evidence and decide in a summary way, or may, at its
discretion, cause a jury to be empaneled to find the damages. If
the collection, payment, or use, of money be enjoined, the damages
may be any rate per cent, on the sum released by the dissolution,
which, in the discretion of the court, may be proper, not exceeding
ten per cent. And, if the delivery of property have been delayed by
the injunction, the value of the use, hire, or rent, thereof shall be
assessed ; judgment shall be rendered against the party who obtained
the injunction for the damages assessed ; and the assessment shall be
conclusive against the surety of such party.
§ 296 [326]. Time allowed for reinstatement. If the plaintifff
desire to apply for a reinstatement of an injunction dissolved or modi
fied on motion, the court or judge shall make the order of dissolu
tion or modification, to take effect in a reasonable time thereafter, not
exceeding twenty days, and shall express in the order that the plaintifff
has leave to apply in the meantime for a reinstatement of the
injunction.
§ 297 [327]. Appellate judge may reinstate. A judge of the
Court of Appeals, if the plaintifff have secured the right to apply for
a reinstatement of an injunction, may, upon a presentation of a copy
of the record, including the evidence read or ottered to be read upon
the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction, reinstate the same
in whole or in part. And, if the order of reinstatement be filed in
the clerk's office in the time limited as provided in the last section,
the injunction, as reinstated, shall be obeyed ; otherwise, the order of
dissolution or modification shall take effect. (Judge of Superior Court
may reinstate. Sec act creating, sec. 12, page 377.)
CHAPTER V.
Receiver.
? 298. When court may appoint —appeal from order.
J 299. May be appointed to take charge of mortgaged property.
{ 800. Who may be appointed.
\ 3C1. Must be sworn and execute bond.
\ 302. Powers of receiver.
§ 298 [328]. When court may appoint—appeal from order.
On the motion of any party to an action who shows that he has, or
probably has, a right to, a lien upon, or an interest in, any property
or fund, the right to which is involved in the action, and that the
property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured, the court, or the judge thereof during vacation, may appoint
n receiver to take charge of the property or fund during the pendency
of the action, and may order and coerce the delivery of it to him.
The order of a court, or of the judge thereof, appointing or refusing
to appoint a receiver, shall be deemed a final order for the purpose of
an appeal to the Court of Appeals : Provided, That such order shall
not be superseded.
§ 299 [329]. May be appointed to take charge of mortgaged
property. In an action by a mortgagee for the sale of the mortgaged
property, a receiver may be appointed, if it appear that the property
is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the
condition of the mortgage has not been performed, and that the
property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
§ 300 [330]. Who may be appointed. Excepting personal rep
resentatives, guardians, curators, and committees of persons of
unsound mind, neither a party to an action, nor his attorney, nor
any person interested therein, shall be appointed receiver.
§ 301 [331]. Must be sworn and execute bond. Before enter
ing upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them
faithfully ; and, with one or more sureties approved by the court or
judge, must execute a bond to such person and in such sum as the
•court shall direct, to the ettect that he will faithfully discharge the
duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of the court
therein.
§ 302 [332]. Powers of receiver. The receiver has, under the
control of the court, power to bring and defend actions, to take and
keep possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and
generally to do such acts respecting the property as the court may
authorize. (Mau sue in his own name, sec. 21.)
CHAPTER VI.
Deposit in court.
\ 303. When deposit may be ordered.
\ 304. Court may enforce order.
\ 305. Sheriff may be directed to keep property.
\ 306. Sheriff may be directed to keep money.
\ 307. Money may be placed in bank.
\ 308. Money may be loaned if bond given.
§ 303 [333]. When deposit may be ordered. If a party admit
by his pleading, or upon examination, that he has in his possession,
or under his control, any money, or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee
for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the
court may order the same to be deposited in court, or to be delivered
to the party who is thus admitted to be entitled thereto, with or with
out security, subject to the further order of the court.
§ 304 [334]. Court may enforce order. If. in the exercise of
its authority, a court order the deposit or delivery of money or other
thing, and the order be disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the
disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the
money or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with its
direction.
§ 305 [335]. Sheriff may be directed to keep property. The
court may direct the sheriff to keep safely any property delivered to
him pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and may allow him
the necessary expenses attending the same, to be paid by such party
as the court shall direct, and taxed in the costs of the action.
§ 306 [336]. Sheriff may be directed to keep money. It may
confide to the sheriff money deposited or paid into court—which shall
be kept by him under the same requirements and responsibilities of
himself and his sureties as are provided by this Code in respect to
money deposited in lieu of bail.
§ 307 [337]. Money may be placed in bank. A court sitting
in a county in which, or in any county adjoining which, there is a
bank, or a branch of a bank, created by the laws of this State, or of
the United States, transacting regular banking business, may order
money paid into court to be deposited in such bank or branch, to the
credit of the court in the action or proceeding in which the money
was paid. Money so deposited shall be paid only upon the check of
the clerk of the court, annexed to its certified order for the payment,
and in favor of the person to whom the order directs the payment to
be made.
§ 308 [338]. Money may be loaned if bond given. Money
deposited or paid into court, in an action, shall not be loaned by the
court, unless with the consent of all the parties having an interest
therein or making claim thereto ; or, unless the party moving to
have it loaned, execute a bond to the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
with good surety, to be approved by the court, for the benefit of the
parties interested, conditioned that the borrower of the money will
pay it according to the contract of loan.
§ 309 [339]. Definition of—and kinds of issues. Issues arise
on the pleadings when a fact, or conclusion of law, is maintained by
one party and controverted by the other. They are—
1. Of law.
2. Of fact.
§ 310 [340]. How issue of fact arises. An issue of fact arises—
1. Upon a traverse in an answer or other pleading of a mate
rial allegation in a petition or other pleading.
2. Upon an allegation of a pleading which is controverted by
law. {Traverse defined, sec. 113-7.)
CHAPTER II.
TRIAL.
Article 1. Trial in general.
2. Trial by jury.
3. Trial by the court.
4. Exceptions.
5. New Trial.
6. General provisions.
7. Time of trial.
ARTICLE I.
Trial in General.
? 311. Trial denned.
? 312. How issues to be tried.
? 313. Certain issues of fart to he tried by court.
2 314. Order in which actions shall be tried.
\ 315. Postponement of trial.
§ 311 [341]. Trial defined. A trial is a judicial examination of
the issues of law or of fact in an action or proceeding.
§ 312 [342]. 1. How issues to be tried. Issues of law must be
tried by the court.
2. Issues of fact in ordinary actions, except for injuries to per
son or character, shall be tried by the court, unless a jury trial be
demanded by a party. {Court may try actions for injuries to per
son and character, sec. 331 ; court to state separately law and facts>
sec. 332.)
§ 313 [343]. Certain issues of fact to be tried by court. All
other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, subject to its power to
order any issue to be tried by a jury. (As to transferring actions
from equity to ordinary and vice-versa, and submitting issues to jury >
sec secs. 8 to 16.)
§ 314 [344]. Order in which actions shall be tried. The trial
of each action shall be according to the order in which it stands
upon the docket, unless for good reason appearing the court shall
order otherwise.
§ 315 [345]. Postponement of trial. A motion to postpone a
trial on account of the absence of evidence can be made only upon
affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be
obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain it; and, if it
be for an absent witness, the affidavit must show what facts the affi
ant believes the witness will prove, and not merely the effect of such
facts in evidence; and that the affiant believes them to be true. If,
thereupon, the adverse party will consent that, on the trial, the affida
vit shall be read as the deposition of the absent witness, the trial shall
not be postponed on account of his absence. ( When witness liable for
cost of continuance, sec. 536.)
ARTICLE II.
TrIAL BY JUrY.
Subdivision 1. Formation of the jury.
2. Conduct of die trial.
3. Verdict.
SUBDIVISION I.
Formation of the Jury.
\ 316. Mode of forming jury not changed by Code.
§ 31 H [346]. Mode of forming jury not changed by Code. The
general mode of summoning, empaneling, challenging, and swearing
the jury is not changed by this Code. (For provisions concerning see
Gen. Stat., chap. 62.)
§ 317 [347]. Order of proceeding in trial. When the jury has
been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the
court, for special reasons, otherwise direct :
1. The plaintifff must briefly state his claim and the evidence
by which he expects to sustain it.
2. The defendant must then briefly state his defense and the
evidence he expects to otter in support of it.
3. The party on whom rests the burthen of proof, in the whole
action, must first produce his evidence; the adverse party will
then produce his evidence.
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence,
unless the court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permit
them to offer evidence in chief.
5. When the evidence is concluded, but before the argument
to the jury, either party may require the court to direct the jury
to find a separate-general verdict with the general verdict, or to
find a special verdict. It" a special verdict be so required, the
questions of law may be reserved by the court until after verdict;
but, if a general verdict be required, either party may ask writ
ten instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be
given or refused by the court before the commencement of the
argument to the jury.
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury.
In the argument, the party having the burthen of proof shall
have the conclusion and the adverse party the opening. If there be
more than one speech on either side or if several defendants hav
ing separate defenses appear by different counsel, the court shall
arrange the relative order of argument. (Sec amendment to, sec.
327 ; who has burthen of proof, sec. 526 ; order of proof regulated
by court, sec. 592.)
§ 318 [348]. View of property or place by jury. Whenever,
in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view
of real property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in
which any material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted
in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be
shown to them by some person appointed by the court for that pur
pose. While the jury are thus absent no person, other than the person so
appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.
§ 319 [349]. Duty of, jury and officer in charge of, after case
submitted. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they
may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they
must be kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of
an officer, until they agree upon a verdict or are discharged by the
court—subject to the discretion of the court to permit them to sepa
rate temporarily at night and at their meals. The officer having them
under his charge shall not sutler any communication to be made to
them, nor make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, unless by order of the court; and he shall not,
before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state
of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
§ 320 [350]. Jury to be admonished by court when they sep
arate. If the jury be permitted to separate, either during the trial
or after the case is submitted to them, they must be admonished by
the court that it is their duty not to converse with, nor suffer them
selves to be addressed by, any other person on any subject of the trial ;
and that, during the trial, it is their duty not to form or express an
opinion thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them,
ii
§ 321 [351]. How jury informed as to law or evidence after
case submitted. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the testi
mony, or if they desire to be informed as to any point of law arising
in the case, they may request the officer to conduct them into court,
where the information required shall be given in the presence of, or
after notice to, the parties or their counsel.
§ 322 [352]. Causes for which jury may be discharged. The
jury may be discharged by the court on account of the sickness of a
juror, or other accident, or calamity requiring their discharge; or,
by consent of both parties ; or, after they have been kept together
until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their
agreeing.
§ 323 [353]. Retrial of cases in which jury fail to make ver
dict. Cases in which the jury are discharged without making a ver
dict shall be tried again at such time as the court may direct.
§ 324 [354]. Manner of delivering verdict — jury may be
polled. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, their names
shall be called by the clerk and the verdict be rendered by their fore
man. When the verdict is announced, either party may require the
jury to be polled—which is done by the clerk or court asking each
juror if it is his verdict. If any one answers' in the negative, the jury
must again be sent out for further deliberation.
§ 325 [355]. Verdict to be in writing signed by foreman. The
verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read by the clerk
to the jury, and the inquiry made, whether or not it is their verdict.
If any juror disagree, the jury must be sent out for further delibera
tion ; but, if no disagreement be expressed, and neither party require
the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and the jury discharged
from the case.
SUBDIVISION III.
Verdict.
\ 326. Verdicts described and denned.
\ 327. Kinds of verdict jury may find.
J 328. Judgment, if general and special be inconsistent.
? 329. When jury must assess amount of recovery.
| 330. When jury to assess value of property, and damages.
§ 326 [356]. Verdicts described and defined. The verdict of a
jury is general or separate-general or special :
1. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounces gen
erally, upon all the issues, for the plaintifff, or for the defendant.
2. A separate-general verdict is the finding, upon any of the
issues, in favor of the plaintifff, or of the defendant.
3. A special verdict is the finding of facts by a jury, as shown
in their answers to questions submitted to them in writing.
§ 327 [357]. Kinds of verdict jury may find. Unless other
wise directed, the jury may find a general, or a general and separategeneral,
verdict ; or a special verdict, with or without a general, or a
separate-general, verdict ; but the court may, without motion, or,
upon the motion of a party, shall, direct the jury to find—
1. A separate-general verdict, as to any issue; and with such
finding the jury shall also return a general verdict; and, if the
separate-general verdict be inconsistent with the general verdict,
judgment shall be rendered pursuant to the former; or,
2. A special verdict; and, on such finding, the jury shall return
a special verdict only ; and the court shall render judgment
upon it.
Amendment of May 15, 18S6 : § 1. That so much of chapter 2,
title 9, of the Civil Code of Practice as authorizes and provides
for a separate-geueral or a special verdict be, and the same is
hereby, repealed : Provided, That the court in its discretion may
direct the jury to find a separate-geueral verdict.
§ 328 [358]. Judgment, if general and special be inconsist
ent. If a general and a special verdict be inconsistent, judgment shall
be rendered pursuant to the latter. ( When judgment to be entered
against the verdict, sec. 386.)
§ 329 [359]. When jury must assess amount of recovery.
It", by a general verdict, either party be entitled to recover money of
the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount
of recovery.
§ 330 [360]. When jury to assess value of property and
damages. In actions for the recovery of specific personal property,
the jury must assess its value, and the damages for the taking or
detention of it, if their verdict authorize a judgment for the recovery
or return of the property. (Form of judgment, page and sec. 388.
Form of execution ror specific property, page 416.)
ARTICLE III.
Trial bg the Court.
\ 331. When court may decide issue of fact in action for tort.
\ 332. May find separately the law and facts.
§ 331 [361]. 1. When court may decide issue of fact in action
for tort. In an action for an injury to the person or character of
the plaintifff, the parties may, with the consent of the court, waive a
jury trial, by written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with
the clerk; or, by oral consent in court, entered on the record.
2. If a jury trial be not demanded, or be waived, the court
shall decide the issues, and make such assessments of value,
damage, or amount of recovery, as it would have been the duty
of a jury to make; and the finding of the court shall have the
same effect as that of the jury would have had. (Form of capias
ad satisfaciendum, page 417.)
§ 332 [362]. May find separately the law and facts. Upon
trials of question of fact by the court, it shall not be necessary for the
court to state its finding, except, generally, for the plaintifff or defend
ant, unless one of the parties request it, with the view of excepting
to the decision of the court upon the questions of law involved in
the trial; in which case the court shall state in writing the conclu
sions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law.
ARTICLE IV.
Exceptions. )
\ 333. What is an exception —how taken.
1 334. When to be taken.
\ 335. Mode of taking, and preparing bill of exceptions. ^
$ 336. How taken to decision entered on record.
2 337. If decision not on record, bill of exceptions must be prepared. \
I 338. Error not prejudicial to substantial rights disregarded.
\ 339. How judge to certify bill of exceptions.
§ 333 [363]. 1. What is an exception—how taken. An excep
tion is an objection taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law.
2. A party may, without a previous objection, except to a
decision against him, unless it be made at the instance of the
adverse party.
3. But a party can not except to a decision made at the instance
of the adverse party, unless objection shall have been made to
the motion, otter, or request of the adverse party. (Exceptions
to depositions, how taken, secs. 586, 587.)
§ 334 [364]. When to be taken. The party objecting must
except when the decision is made ; and time may be given to prepare
a bill of exceptions, but not beyond a day in the succeeding term, to
be fixed by the court.
Amendment of May 12, 1886: § 1. That section (334) three
hundred and thirty-four of the Civil Code of Practice be, and
the same is, amended as follows, by adding the following words
to said section, namely : " If the judge of said court, for any
cause, does not preside at the said term of the court, or no court is
held, then the party offering the bill of exceptions shall have
until the next term of the court to perfect and prepare the bill
of exceptions."
§ 335 [365]. 1. Mode of taking and preparing bill of excep
tions. No particular form of exception, or bill of exceptions, is
required. A party must not, except as hereinafter provided, state
the evidence, but must state the material facts which the evidence
conduced to prove; and, if the exception be to a decision admitting
or excluding testimony, or concerning its meaning or effect, so much
of the evidence as is necessary to explain the exception, and no more,
shall be stated.
2. If the judge refuse to sign the bill of exceptions, as pre
sented ; or if the party wish to appeal upon the ground that the
verdict is not sustained by the evidence, it shall be stated in full,
and the bill of exceptions be presented to the judge.
3. But if a number of instruments of substantially the same
character be used upon a trial it shall be sufficient to furnish a
copy of one of them in the bill of exceptions, accompanied by a
statement showing its resemblance to the others, and how many
such others were used on the trial ; and such copy and statement
shall have the same effect as if all of said instruments had been
copied in the bill of exceptions. {When writings filed as exhibits
arc part of record, sec. 1.?8—?, 3.)
§ 336 [366]. How taken to decision entered on record. If the
decision objected to be entered on the record, and the grounds of
objection appear in the entry, the exception may be taken by the
party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts.
§ 337 [367]. 1. If decision not on record, bill of exceptions
must be prepared. If the decision be not entered on the record, or
the grounds of objection do not appear in the entry, the party must
prepare his bill of exceptions and present it to the judge for his
signature.
2. Exceptions taken during the trial need not be noted of
record, nor reduced to writing, unless by order of court, until
after the trial. At the close of the trial, the party excepting
shall, unless further time be given him, prepare his bill of excep
tions, which shall include all the decisions of the court excepted
to, in consecutive order ; and, if he except to a decision of the
court in granting or refusing any instruction, all the instructions
given and refused shall be also included.
Amendment of February 27, 1878: % 1. That sub-section 2, of
section 337, of the Civil Code of Practice be, and the same is
hereby, amended by striking out the words, " at the close of the
trial," and inserting in lieu thereof the words, " during the term
at which the judgment becomes final."
3. If the bill of exceptions be approved by the judge, he shall
sign it, and it shall be filed as part of the record, but not spread
at large on the order-book. If not approved, he shall correct it,
or suggest the correction to be made, and sign it. A party
objecting to the judge's correction of an exception which pur
ports to state the evidence may, within five days after the bill is
signed, file the exception, as written by him, if its truth be
attested by the affidavits of two bystanders ; but its truth may
be controverted and maintained by other affidavits filed in the
clerk's office, not exceeding five on either side.
4. Affidavits controverting an exception not signed by the
judge must be filed in the clerk's office, and notice of the filing
given, within fifteen days after the filing of such exceptions; and
affidavits sustaining such exception must be filed within fifteen
days after such notice.
5. If the judge who presided at the trial do not preside when
a motion for a new trial is overruled, the bill of exceptions may
be certified by bystanders, and be controverted and maintained,
pursuant to the provisions of sub-sections 3 and 4 of this section.
§ 338 [368]. Errors not prejudicial to substantial rights disre
garded. No exception shall be regarded, unless the decision to which
it relates be prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party except
ing. (Same provision in, sec. 750.)
% 339. How judge to certify bill of exceptions. In cases in
which, by sub-section 2 of section 335, the evidence is required to be
stated in full, the judge shall certify iu the bill of exceptions that it
contains all the evidence. In all other cases, he shall certify that the
bill of exceptions is true.
ARTICLE V.
New Trials.
\ 340. New trial defined—for what causes granted.
\ 341. When new trial shall not be granted.
\ 842. When application for must be made.
\ 343. How application for must be made.
| 344. How application made if grounds discovered after term.
§ 340 [369]. New trial defined—for what causes granted. A
new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of fact
after a verdict by a jury or a decision by the court. The former ver
dict or decision may be vacated and a new trial be granted, on the
application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes
affecting materially his substantial rights :
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or preattorney.
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not
have guarded against.
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice.
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether
too large or too small, in an action upon a contract, or for the
injury or detention of property.
6. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient
evidence, or is contrary to law.
7. Newly discovered evidence, material lor the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered
and produced at the trial.
8. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the
party making the application.
§ 341 [370]. When new trial shall not be granted. A new
trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in
an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other
action in which the damages equal the actual pecuniary injury sus
tained ; nor shall more than two new trials be granted to a party
upon the ground that the verdict is not sustained by the evidence.
§ 342 [371]. When application for must be made. The appli
cation for a new trial must be made at the term in which the verdict
or decision is rendered; and, except for the cause mentioned in section 340, sub-section 7, shall be within three days after the verdict or
.decision is rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
Amendment of May 16, 1X86: § 1. That section 342 of the
Civil Code of Practice be, and is hereby, so amended as to allow
the party applying for a new trial where there is a special verdict
only, to make his motion within three days after the court shall
have rendered a judgment thereon. {When defendant construct
ively summoned may apply, secs, 414-, 415.)
§ 343 [372]. How application for must be made. The applica
tion must be by motion upon written grounds filed at the time of
making the motion. The grounds mentioned in section 340, sub
sections 2, 3, and 7, must be sustained by affidavits showing their
truth ; and may be controverted by affidavits.
§ 344 [373]. How application made if grounds discovered
after term. If grounds for a new trial be discovered after the term
«,t which the verdict or decision is rendered, the application may be
made by a petition filed with the clerk not later than the second term
after the discovery —on which a summons shall issue, as on other
petitions, requiring the adverse party to appear and answer it on or
before the first day of the next term. The application shall stand
for hearing at the term to which the summons is returned executed,
and shall be summarily decided by the court. The evidence may be
either by depositions or by witnesses examined in court. But no
such application shall be made more than three years after the final
judgment was rendered : nor do the provisions of this section apply
to divorce cases, so far as the judgment for divorce is coucerned.
(Further provisions concerning, secs. 518 to 524.)
§ 345 [374]. Bate of damages recoverable. If damages be
recoverable, the plaintifff may claim and recover any rate of damages
to which he may be entitled for the cause of action established.
§ 346 [375], Provisions as to jury trials apply to trials by
court. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by jury, apply,
so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.
I 847. Three dockets to be kept.
\ 348. Ordinary docket—entries on.
ARTICLE VII.
Time of Trial.
\ 349. How ordinary docket made out and arranged.
\ 350. When jury case to be tried.
\ 851. Equity docket—entries on.
| 852. Motion docket—entries on.
\ 353. Dockets must show names of parties and attorneys.
\ 354. What ordinary docket must show.
\ 355. What motion docket must show.
\ 356. First hour each day for motions.
\ 357. If hour not consumed, equity docket may be called.
\ 358. Proceedings after motion hour.
\ 359. Ordinary cases to be called after motion hour—how disposed of.
? 360. Equity appearance docket to be called on third day.
\ 361. Issues of law in equity appearances to be tried on third day.
\ 362. Motion made by entering it on docket.
\ 363. When ordinary actions stand for trial.
\ 364. When equity actions stand for trial.
\ 365. Party must answer interrogatories to entitle himself to trial.
\ 366. When plaintifff entitled to trial in equitable action.
{ 367. When plaintifff may dismiss as to some, and try as to others.
§ 347 [376]. Three dockets to be kept. The clerk shall keep
three separate dockets, which shall be called the common docket, the
equity docket, and the motion docket.
§ 348 [377]. Ordinary docket—entries on. On the common
docket shall be entered all ordinary actions in the order in which they
are brought. (Action may be transferred to equity, secs. S to 15 ; when
defendant required to give bond before transfer, sec. 1^.)
§ 349 [378]. How ordinary docket made out and arranged.
The common docket shall be made out for each term of the court;
and the actions shall be set for particular days, and so arranged by
the clerk that the cases set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as
may be, on that day.
§ 350 [379]. When jury case to be tried. The trial of any issue
of fact or assessment of damages by a jury in any case shall be on or
after the day set on the docket for its trial.
§ 351 [380]. Equity docket—entries on. On the equity docket
shall be entered all equitable actions in the order in which they are
brought. {Action may be transferred to ordinary, secs. 8 to 1S.)
§ 352 [381]. Motion docket—entries on. On the motion docket
may be entered any motion relating to proceedings in the court.
( Motion defined, sec. 623.)
§ 353 [382]. Dockets must show names of parties and attor
neys. The entry on all the dockets shall give the names of the plain
tiff and defendant ; or, if there be more than one, those of the first
named in the pleadings, with the words " and others " added thereto,
and the names of the attorneys. (Officers return on summons to be
fntered, sec. 570.)
% 354 [383]. What ordinary docket must show. The entry on
the common docket shall also show whether or not the summons has
been fully served in due time for trial, and whether or not the issues
have been formed.
§ 355 [384]. What motion docket must show. The entry on the
motion docket shall show the date of the entry and the object of the
motion.
§ 35tf [385]. First hour each day for motions. The first hour of
each day of the term shall be devoted to hearing motions—in which
the court shall first call the motion docket; and then, upon the
attorneys present, for motions.
§ 357 [386]. If hour not consumed equity docket may be
called. If the hour be not consumed in motions, the court may pro
ceed, during the remainder thereof, to call the equity docket.
§ 358 [387]. Proceedings after motion hour. At the expiration
of the motion hour, the court, except on the third day of the term,
ihall proceed to the call of the common docket, and the trial of the
issues until the call be completed ; and then to the call of the equity
docket.
§ 859 [388]. Ordinary cases to be called after motion hoar—
how disposed of. On each day of the term the court shall, imme
diately after the hearing of motions, call all the cases on the common
docket set for that day in which the summons has been serevd in duetime,
as provided in section 102, and in which no issue of fact haa
been formed; and, upon failure ,to defend, may render judgment;
and at the same time may hear and determine all issues of law in
such actions, and render judgment, or give further time for hearing
and deciding them.
§ 360 [389]. Equity appearance docket to be called on third
day. On the third day of each term the court shall call all cases on
the equity docket in which the. summons has been served as provided
in section 102; and upon failure to defend may give judgment.
§ 361 [390]. Issues of law in equity appearances to be tried on
third day. On the third day the court may hear and decide all issues
of law in the actions, as they are called: and render judgment, or
give further time for hearing or deciding theni.
§ 362 [391]. Motion made by entering it on docket. The entry
of a motion on the motion docket shall be considered as making the
motion.
§ 363 [392]. When ordinary actions stand for trial. Ordinary
actions shall stand for trial at the first term after process has been
served on the defendant as specified in section 102. An action upon
contract, wherein the summons has been served in due time as pro
vided in section 102 upon part only of the defendants, shall stand for
trial at the first term as to those so summoned, and may be continued
as to the others for further proceedings. In other ordinary actions,
the plaintifff cau only demand a trial at any term as to part of the
defendants upon his discontinuing his action ou the first day of such
term as to the others. (See further, secs. 370, 373.)
§ 364 [393]. When equity actions stand for trial. Equitable
actions shall stand for trial at any term, if the pleadings have been,
or, by the provisions of sections 102, 104, 105, and 10ti, should have
been completed, ninety days before the commencement of such term.
But, if they have not been so completed, though they should have
been, by those sections, the party in default as to time shall not be
entitled to demand a trial. (Sec further, secs. 300, 367.)
§ 365 [394]. Party must answer interrogatories to entitle
himself to trial. If interrogatories be annexed to a pleading in an
equitable action, the party interrogated shall not be entitled to demand
a trial, unless he have answered the interrogatories either within
twenty days after they were filed, or twenty days before the term.
§ 366 [395]. When plaintifff entitled to trial in equitable
action. The plaintifff shall be entitled to a trial in an equitable
action, at the first term after the summons has been served on all the
defendants as provided in section 102, if no issue of fact be made by
the pleadings; or, if the plaintifff consent that the statements of the
answer may be taken as true.
§ 367 [396]. When plaintifff may dismiss as to some, and try
as to others. If the summons in an equitable action have been
served in due time on part only of the defendants, the plaintifff may
dismiss his action as to those not summoned, and proceed to trial as
to the others, if he cou4d have maintained his action against them
without joining those not summoned.
CHAPTER III.
JUDGMENT.
Article 1. Judgment in general.
2. Judgment upon failure to plead.
3. Judgment by confession.
4. Manner of giving and entering judgment.
5. Conveyance by commissioners under a judgment.
ARTICLE I.
Judgment in General.
2 368. Judgment defined.
g 869. Judgment may be for or against one or more of parties.
\ 370. May be against some, and action continued as to others.
% 371. Dismissal of action without prejudice.
? 872. Trial of set-off or counterclaim after dismissal of action.
{ 373. Judgment may be against part of defendants.
i 374. In action to enforce lien, sale of property not to be postponed.
? 375. Foreclosure of mortgage forbidden.
{ 376. In action to enforce lien personal judgment may be rendered.
4> 377. How judgments for money may be set off.
? 378. When collection of judgmen' may be enjoined.
§ 368 [397]. Judgment defined. A judgment is a final determination of a right of a party in an action or proceeding. (Forms of
judgments, page #28; what are final orders, see secs. 267, X9tS.)
§ 369 [398]. Judgment may be for or against one or more of
parties. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of sev
eral parties. (If on contract it will not bar procecdings against others,
sec. 27.)
§ 370 [399]. May be against some, and action continued as to
others. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leavingthe
action to proceed against the others, if a several judgment be
proper. ( When several judgments not proper, sec. Si), and see sec. ,3?6V?.)
§ 371 [400]. Dismissal of action without prejudice. An action,
or any cause of action, may be dismissed without prejudice to a
future action —
1. By the plaintifff, before the final submission of the case to
the jury, or to the court, if the trial be by the court.
2. By the court— •
a. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the trial,
fx For the want of necessary parties.
c. On the application of a defendant, if there be others whom
the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.
d. For disobedience by the plaintifff of an order concerning the
proceedings in the action. In all other cases, upon the trial of
the action, the decision must be upon the merits. (Upon failure
of plaintifff to secure costs, sec. 617.)
§ 372 [401]. Trial of set-off or counterclaim after dismissal
of action. A defendant is entitled to a trial of a set-off' or counter
claim, although the plaintifff dismiss his action or fail to appear. (As
to judgment on, sec. 387.)
% 373 [402]. Judgment may be against part of defendants.
Though several defendants are summoned, judgment may be rendered
against any of them, if the plaintifff would have been entitled to judg
ments against them in an action against them alone. ( When several
judgment not allowed, sec. 80.)
§ 374 [403]. In action to enforce lien, sale of property not to be
postponed. In an action to enforce a mortgage or other lien, a sale
of the property may be ordered without giving time to pay money or
do other act. (Procecding if several liens on same real property, sec.
694-,!.)
% 375 [404]. Foreclosure of mortgage forbidden. Foreclosure
of a mortgage is forbidden.
§ 376 [406]. In action to enforce lien personal judgment may
be rendered. In an action to enforce a mortgage or lien, judgment
may be rendered for the sale of the property and for the recovery of
the debt against the defendant personally. (Form of judgment,
page 424..)
§ 377 [407]. How judgments for money may be set-off. Judg
ments for the recovery of money may be set-off against each other,
with due regard to the legal and equitable rights of all persons inter
ested therein. The set-off may be ordered upon motion, after rea
sonable notice to the adverse party, if both judgments are in the
same court ; or, in an equitable action in the court which rendered
the judgment sought to be annulled by the set-off.
§ 378 [408]. When collection of judgment may be enjoined.
During the pendency of an action, the judgment in which when
recovered could be used as a set-off against a judgment in favor of
the defendants or either of them, the court, to prevent loss by insolv
ency, non-residence, or otherwise, may enjoin the collection of the
judgment in favor pf such defendants, according to the provisions of
chapter 4 of title 8.
ARTICLE II.
Judgment upon Failure to Plead.
g 379. How fact or damage ascertained upon failure to plead.
\ 380. If part of claim controverted, judgment for balance.
§ 379 [409]. How fact or damage ascertained upon failure to
plead. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the
assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to pronounce
judgment upon a failure to plead, or after a decision of an issue of
law, the court may take the account, hear the proof, and assess the
damages ; or may cause them to be assessed by a commissioner or a
jury, on or after the day on which the action is set for trial.
§ 380 [410]. If part of claim controverted, judgment for
balance. If only a part of a claim be controverted, judgment may
at any time be rendered for the part not controverted.
ARTICLE III.
Judgment by Confession.
\ 381. How to be taken.
j> 382. Cause of action to be stated.
I 383. Effect of.
§ 381 [411]. How to be taken. Any person may personally
appear in a court of competent jurisdiction and, with the assent of a
person having a cause of action against him, confess judgment there
for; whereupon, judgment shall be entered accordingly. (Offer to
confess—effect of, sec. 640.)
§ 382 [412]. Cause of action to be stated. The cause of action
shall be briefly stated in the judgment, or in a writing to be filed as
pleadings in an action.
§ 383 [413]. Effect of. Such judgment shall authorize the same
proceedings as judgments rendered in actions, and the confession
shall operate as a release of errors.
§ 384 [414]. Clerk to enter in conformity to verdict except in
certain cases. After a jury-trial, the clerk shall enter judgment in
conformity to the verdict, unless it be special as to one or more ques
tions of fact, or unless the court reserve the case for consideration.
§ 885 [415]. How entered on special verdict. After such
special verdict or such reservation the clerk shall enter such judg
ment or order as the court may direct.
§ 386 [416]. Judgment notwithstanding verdict. Judgment
shall be given for the party whom the pleadings entitle thereto, though
there may have been a verdict against him.
§ 387 [417]. When to be rendered on counterclaim or set-off.
If the defendant establish a set-off or counterclaim, and the plaintifff
fail in his action ; or, if the set-off or counterclaim exceed the sum
to which the plaintifff is entitled, judgment shall be rendered for the
defendant accordingly. {See further as to trial of, sec. 372.)
§ 388 [418]. In action for specific personal property. In an
action for the possession of specific personal property, the plaintifff
may have judgment for its delivery, if it can be had ; and, if not, for
its value and for damages for its detention. If the property have
been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for the return of the
property, or its value if a return can not be had, and damages for the
taking and withholding of the property. {Jury must assess value and
damages, sec. 330.)
§ 389 [419]. If party entitled to damages given by statute.
If a party is entitled to damages given by a statute, the court shall
render a judgment therefore after finding the amount thereof, or after
causing them to be found by a jury.
§ 390 [420]. Where to be entered and what to specify. The
judgment must be entered on the order-book and specify clearly the
relief granted or other determination of the action.
§ 391 [421]. Time in which infant may show cause against.
An infant — other than a married woman — may, within twelve
months after attaining the age of twenty-one years, show cause
against a judgment, unless it be for a tort done by, or for necessaries
furnished to, the infant; or, unless it be rendered upon a set-off or
counterclaim stated in an answer: but the vacation of such judg
ment shall not affect the title of a bona fide purchaser under it.
(Mode of procecdings, secs. 518 to 521; appeal by, sec. 7^5-)
§ 392 [422]. Judgment book must be cross indexed — how
kept. The clerk must keep a record, called judgment-book, in
which all judgments shall be alphabetically cross-indexed, according
to the surnames of each plaintifff and each defendant ; and said book
shall state the date of the judgment, the order-book and page con
taining it, and satisfaction of it when satisfied.
§ 393 [423]. Satisfaction of to be entered—who may enter.
Upon the return of an execution, showing that a judgment has bee»
satisfied, the clerk shall thus enter satisfaction on the judgmentbook
: satisfied by execution. A party or his attorney, receiving
satisfaction of a judgment otherwise than by execution, shall make,
date, and sign, this entry upon the judgment-book: satisfied in full.
The court may, on motion, after notice, compel an entry of satisfac
tion to be made.
ARTICLE V.
Conveyance by Commissioners.
? 394. When conveyance may be made.
? 395. Deed to refer to judgment and proceedings.
# 396. Character of title passed under judgment.
\ 397. Character of title passed under order of sale.
\ 398. Deed to be examined and approved by court.
\ 399. Whose names to appear in deed, who to sign.
# 400. Where to be recorded.
§ 304 [424]. When conveyance may be made. Real property
may be conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court—
1. Tf by the judgment in an action a party be ordered to con
vey such property to another.
2. If such property have been sold under a judgment or order
of the court and the sale confirmed.
3. The death of a party, after a sale, does not prevent a con
veyance. It shall be made, and shall have the same effect, as if
he were living.
§ 395 [42i"i]. Deed to refer to judgment and proceedings. The
deed of the commissioner shall refer to the judgment, orders, and
proceedings, authorizing the conveyance, so that the same may be
readily found.
§ 396 [426]. Character of title passed under judgment. A
conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to the grantee
the title of the parties ordered te convey the land.
§ 397 [427]. Character of title passed under order of sale. A
conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the court shall
pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or pro
ceeding.
§ 398 [428]. Deed to be examined and approved by court. A
conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right, until it has
been examined and approved by the court—which approval shall be
indorsed on the conveyance, and recorded with it.
§ 399 [429]. Whose names to appear in deed—who to sign.
It shall be necessary for the conveyance to be signed by the commis
sioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose title is con
veyed; but the names of such parties shall be recited in the conveyance.
§ 400 [430]. Where to be recorded. The conveyance shall be
recorded where, by law, it should have been recorded, had it, been
made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.
CHAPTER IV.
Berh'or of Judgment*.
I 401. Within what time execution may be issued.
'\ 402. In whose favor to issue after death of plaintifff—duty of clerk.
1 403. Who to be treated by sheriff as plaintifff.
\ 404. Clerk to take affidavit before issuing after death of plaintifff.
§ 405. Execution against survivors, after death of part of defendants.
f 406. Execution improperly issued may be quashed or enjoined.
} 407. Proceedings after death of execution defendant.
§ 401 [431]. Within what time execution may be issued. An
execution may be issued upon a judgment at any time until the col
lection of it is barred by the statute of limitations, although no exe
cution may have been previously issued within a year and a day.
§ 402 [432]. In whose favor to issue after death of plaintifffduty
of clerk. The death of a party, after recovering a judgment,
shall not prevent the issuing of an execution afterward : but—
1. Upon a judgment recovered by one party, execution issued
after his death must be in favor of his representative or successor who is entitled to the property for which the judgment
was rendered.
2. Upon a judgment recovered by several parties, execution
issued after the death of one must be in favor of the other.
3. Upon a judgment recovered by several parties, execution
issued after the death of all of them must be in favor of the last
survivor's representative or successor who would have been enti
tled to the property if the judgment had been recovered by such
survivor only.
4. The clerk shall indorse on the execution the names of the
decedent and of such survivor, representative, or successor.
5. An execution issued in favor of a survivor, representative
or successor, of a decedent, shall be subject to the control of the
court whence it issued for the protection of any person inter
ested therein.
$ 403 [433]. Who to be treated by sheriff as plaintifff. Upon
such execution, the person entitled thereto, according to the indorse
ment of the clerk, shall be treated by the sheriff as the plaintifff
therein.
§ 404 [434]. Clerk to take affidavit before issuing after death
of plaintifff. The clerk, before making the indorsements required
by subdivision 4 of section 402, shall require the person claiming
right thereto to file an affidavit showing his right. If the affiant
state that he is a personal representative or successor of a decedent,
the clerk shall also require him to file a copy, properly certified, of
his appointment, as such, by a competent tribunal in the United
States ; and, unless the appointment was made in Kentucky, the
clerk shall also require of him a covenant with good surety, that
he will dispose, according to law, of any property which he may
receive upon the execution. If the affiant state that he is a devisee
of a decedent, the clerk shall require him to file a copy of the will,
certified by a clerk of a county court in this State in which the will
or a copy is recorded.
§ 405 [435]. Execution against survivors after death of part
,of defendants. The death of a defendant shall not prevent the
issuing of an execution against a surviving defendant.
§ 406 [436]. Execution improperly issued may be quashed or
enjoined. The court may, after reasonable notice, quash an execu
tion, on the ground that the representative or successor of a deceasc-il
plaintifff is not properly stated in the indorsement on the execution ;
and during vacation of the court the defendant may obtain an injunc
tion, upon its being made to appear that the persons named are not
entitled to the judgment on which the execution was issued.
§ 407 [437]. l. Proceedings after death of execution defend
ant. The death of a defendant after a sale of his property under
,execution shall not prevent a conveyance of the property. It shall
be conveyed in the same manner, and with the same effect, as if he
were living.
2. The levy of an execution is not discharged by the death of
the defendant ; but is suspended, according to the provisions of
the next following sub-section.
3. A judgment, or the levy of an execution, may be revived
against the personal representative or successor of a defendant
after the lapse of six months from the time of the qualification
of his first representative; and, against a real representative,
after the lapse of twelve months from the time of the death of
the defendant. If, however, owing to the perishable nature of
the property levied on, or the cost of keeping it, a sale of it
would be beneficial, the court, or the judge in vacation, may so
order ; and the proceeds shall be held subject to the order of the
court on the rule for a revivor.
4. The revivor may be made upon a rule in the action, ten
days' notice of which shall be served in the same manner as a
summons. The motion for revivor shall be docketed and tried
as other motions ; the court may hear it during any day of the
term; and may cause execution to issue without delay. {How
action revived, secs. 500 to 512; who is "successor," sec. 732-20.)
§ 408 [438]. Wheh defendant constructively summoned may
make defense. A defendant constructively summoned shall be
allowed at any time before judgment to appear and defend the action ;
and, upon a substantial defense being disclosed, time may be given
on reasonable terms to prepare for trial. (How unknown defendant
described, sec. 691 ; venue of action against, sec. 7o ; provisions con
cerning constructive service, secs. .',7 to 0.'.)
allegations against to be taken as true.
In an action against a defendant constructively summoned, if the
plaintifff file with the petition his own affidavit stating that any of
the allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known tc>
be so by the defendant, and that they can not be proved or shown
otherwise than by his answer, so far as the affiant knows or believes,
such allegations, unless denied by the answer, shall be taken as true/
(Otherwise must be proved, sec. 136-3; how action against revived,
sec. 504.)
§ 410 [440]. Before judgment against, bond must be exe
cuted. Before judgment is rendered against a defendant construct
ively summoned and who has not appeared, a bond shall be executed,
with good surety approved by the court, to the effect that, if the
defendant shall procure a vacation or modification of the judgment,
the person in whose favor it was rendered shall restore to the defendant any property or money obtained under such judgment, restora
tion of which shall be adjudged. If the judgment be in favor of persons
having distinct interests, such bond may be executed for each, accord
ing to his interest. (Form of bon,l, page 4^4 , personal property must
he first sold, sec. 2HU ; executing bom/ in attachment case enters appear
ance, sec. 690.)
§411 [442]. If bond not given court to retain control of
property. If the bond mentioned in section 410 be not given, the
court may enter a judgment ascertaining the rights of the parties ;
but shall retain control over and preserve any money or property, or
the proceeds thereof, which may have been attached in the action,
until the expiration of the period allowed to the defendant to appear
and make defense—when, if no defense be made, such money or
property or its proceeds shall be delivered according to the judgment.
Amendment of May ,1, 1SSS' : § 1. That section 410 and 411
shall not apply in actions in which the Commonwealth is a party
plaintifff, and is the beneficial owner of the demand sought to be
collected.
§ 2. That section 414, said chapter and title, be so amended as
that when the Commonwealth shall have received money under
a judgment, which may thereforee be modified, set aside under
the provisions of said section upon a retrial, the court, in mak
ing the order for the restoration of such money, shall direct the
Auditor of Public Accounts to draw his warrant upon the treas
urer for the proper amount in favor of the party in whose favor
the order of restoration may be made, and it shall thereupon
become the duty of the Auditor to draw his warrant in obedience
to such order.
§412 [443], Plaintiff may be examined concerning his claim.
Before rendering judgment against a defendant constructively sum
moned and who has not appeared, the court may cause the plaintifff
to appear personally in court, or before a commissioner, and answer
under oath interrogatories concerning the statements of the petition,
or any defense thereto, including set-offs or counterclaims, and may
order the examination to be reduced to writing and filed with the
papers of the action.
§ 413 [444]. If set-off or counterclaim disclosed to be al
lowed. If, upon such examination, any set-off' or counterclaim be
disclosed, it may be adjusted and allowed in the judgment.
§ 414 [445]. Defendant, except in divorce cases, may have
new trial within five years. A defendant against whom a judg
ment may have been rendered upon constructive service of a sum
mons, and who did not appear, may, at any time within five years
after the rendition of the judgment, move to have the action re
tried; and, security for the costs being given, shall be admitted to
make defense ; and, thereupon, the action shall be re-tried, as if there
had been no judgment; and, upon the new trial, the court may con
firm the judgment, or modify or set it aside; and may order the
plaintifff to restore any money of such defendant paid to him under
it. or any property of the defendant obtained by the plaintifff under
it and yet remaining in his possession, and pay to the defendant the
value of any property which may have been taken under an attach
ment in the action, or under the judgment, and not restored. But
this section does not apply to judgments for divorce, so far as the
divorce is concerned. (Sec amendment to sec. ±11; see sec. 763.)
§ 415 [446]. Copy of judgment may be served on defendant
—effect of. The plaintifff may, after the judgment, cause a certified
copy thereof to be served on a defendant constructively summoned,
excepting infants—other than married women —and persons of
unsound mind and prisoners ; whereupon, the period in which such
defendant is allowed to appear and have a new trial shall be reduced
to one year after such service.
§ 416 [447]. Manner of serving copy of judgment. Service of
the copy of a judgment in this State shall be made and proved in the
same manner as the service of a summons ; and, if out of this State,
in the maimer prescribed in section 56 as to the service of a copy of
the petition and summons and proof thereof.
§ 417 [448]. Title of purchaser—except plaintifff—not affected
by new trial. The title of purchasers in good faith to any property
sold under an attachment or judgment shall not be affected by the
new trial permitted by section 414, except the title of property
obtained by the plaintifff and not bought of him in good faith by
others.
§ 418 [449]. Lien can only be created by attachment or judg
ment. No lien on the property of a defendant constructively sum
moned shall be created otherwise than by an attachment as is provided in chapter 3 of title 8 or by judgment ; nor shall any person be
restrained from paying or delivering any money or property in his
hands belonging or due to such defendant, by notice indorsed on the
summons, or otherwise than by attachment or judgment.
§ 419 [450]. Personal judgment forbidden. No personal judg
ment shall be rendered against a defendant construct! vely summoned,
or summoned out of this State as provided in section 56, and who
has not appeared in the action.
CHAPTER II.
Alimony and Divorce.
2 420. Action for to be in equity.
% 421. Interrogatories in, but not pleadings, must be verified.
{ 422. Statements of petition must be proved—proof of residence.
? 423. Facts to be stated and proved besides grounds of divorce.
§ 424. During action wife may be allowed maintenance.
? 425. Judgment for divorce to contain order restoring property.
% 426. How divorce from bond of matrimony annulled.
\ 427. How divorce from bed and board annulled.
§ 420 [457]. Action for to be in equity. An action for alimony
or divorce shall be in equity. ( Venue of action, sec. 76.)
§ 421 [458]. Interrogatories in, but not pleadings, must be
^verified. The pleadings are not required to be verified. But either
party may file interrogatories to the other, in regard to questions ot
property involved in the action, which shall be answered on oath, as
interrogatories in other actions, and have the same effect. (Provisions
concerning interrogatories, secs, lift to 15.'.)
§ 422 [459]. Statements of petition must be proved—proof
of residence. The statements of a petition for a divorce shall not
be taken as true because of the defendant' s failure to answer, or
admission of their truth ; and the facts as to residence of the parties
must be proved by some person who is certified by the officer taking
the deposition to be personally known to him as worthy of credit.
§ 423 [460]. Facts to be stated and proved besides grounds of
divorce. The plaintifff', to obtain a divorce, must allege and prove,
in addition to a legal cause of divorce—
1. A residence in this State for one year next before the com
mencement of the action.
2. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed in this State,
or, if out of the State, either that it was a legal cause of divorce
in the State where it occurred or existed, or that the plaintifff's
residence was then in this State.
3. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed within five
years next before the commencement of the action.
§ 424 [461]. During action wife may be allowed maintenance.
During the pendency of an action for divorce or alimony, the court
may allow the wife maintenance, and enforce the payment thereof by
orders and executions and proceedings as in cases of contempt.
§ 425 [462]. Judgment for divorce to contain order restoring
property. Every judgment for a divorce from the bond of matri
mony shall contain an order restoring any property, not disposed of
at the commencement of the action, which either party may have
obtained, directly or indirectly, from or through the other, during
marriage, in consideration or by reason thereof; and any property so
obtained, without valuable consideration, shall be deemed to have
been obtained by reason of marriage. The proceedings to enforce
this order may be by petition of either party, specifying the property
which the other has failed to restore ; and the court may hoar and
determine the same in a summary manner, after ten days' notice to
the party so failing. {Judgment can not be set aside after term,
sec.
§ 426 [463]. Sow divorce from bond of matrimony annulled.
A judgment of divorce from the bond of matrimony may be annulled
by the court which rendered it, upon a petition verified by the par
ties in person so requesting.
§ 427 [464]. How divorce from bed and board annulled. A
judgment of divorce from bed and board may be annulled by the
court which rendered it, at the instance of either party showing ju&t
cause therefore in an equitable action.
CHAPTER III.
Settlement of "/'rust Estates and Estates of Deceased Persona.
i 428. Parties to action to settle decendent's estate.
? 429. What petition must state —when realty may be sold.
I 430. Reference to commissioner to receive claims— how creditors notified.
? 431. Clerk may make order of reference in vacation.
? 432. Creditor presenting claim becomes party to action.
j* 433. Creditor failing to present claim, loses it as against representative.
3 434. Liability of legatees and distributees to creditor.
\ 435. Legatee or distributee to give refunding bond.
\ 486. When creditors may be enjoined from suing.
? 437. Affidavit and demand of creditors not dispensed with, exceptions to rule.
\ 438. Foregoing provisions apply to trust estates.
§ 428 [465]. 1. Parties to action to settle decedent's estates.
A. representative, legatee, distributee or creditor of a deceased person
may bring an action in equity for the settlement of his estate.
2. The representatives of the decedent and all persons having
a lien upon, or an interest in, the property left by the decedent,
or any part thereof, and the creditors of the decedent, so far as
known to the plaintifff, must be parties to the action as plaintifffs
or defendants. ( Venue of action, secs. 65, 66. See act sec. 472.)
§ 429 [466]. What petition must state—when realty may be
sold. In such an action, the petition must state the amount of the
debts, and the nature and value of the property, real and personal, of
the decedent, so far as known to the plaintifff; and, if it shall appear
that the personal estate is insufficient for the payment of all debts,
the court may order the real property descended or devised to the
heirs or devisees who may be parties to the action, or so much thereof
as shall be necessary, to be sold for the payment of the residue of
such debts.
§ 430 [467]. Reference to commissioner to receive claimshow creditors notified. In such actions, the court shall make an
order for the creditors of the decedent to appear before a commiseioner, to be appointed by the court, and prove their claims before a
certain day to be named in the order, notice of which shall be given
by advertisement in a newspaper; or, if none be published in the
county, then by such other modes as the court may judge best calcu
lated to give such creditors actual notice of the order ; and, in addi
tion to the advertisement in a newspaper, the court may direct publi
cation in other modes.
§ 431 . Clerk may make order of reference in vacation. The
clerk of the court shall, during vacation, have the powers conferred
on the court by section 430, except that the creditors shall be
required to appear before the master commissioner in chancery for the
county ; and, if no newspaper be published in the county, the clerk
shall cause the notice to be posted at the court-house door and at two
or more other public places in the county.
§ 432 [468]. Creditor presenting claim becomes party to ac
tion. A creditor appearing before the commissioner and presenting
his claim becomes thereby a party to the action, and is concluded by
the final judgment of the court allowing or rejecting his claim.
§ 433 [469]. Creditor failing to present claim loses it as
against representative. Creditors failing to appear and prove their
claims, agreeably to such order, shall have no claim against the exec
utor or administrator who has actually paid out the estate in expenses
of administration, and to creditors, legatees, or distributees.
§ 434 [470]. Liability of legatees and distributees to creditor.
Legatees and distributees shall be liable to a direct action by a creditor to the extent of estate received by each of them, notwithstand
ing the failure of the creditor to appear and the discharge of the
personal representative as prescribed in the preceding section ; and
that liability shall continue during the same period that the liability
of the personal representative would have continued but for said dis
charge.
§ 435 [471]. Legatee or distributee to give refunding bond
The court shall require the distributee or legatee, before receiving
his distributive share or legacy, if received within five years after
the grant of administration, to execute bond, with good surety, to the
Commonwealth, conditioned to pay his proportion, not exceeding the
amount received by him, of any debt which may appear against
the estate of the decedent within said period.
Amendment of April 1S, 1880: S 1. That section 435 of chap,
ter 3, title 10, of the Civil Code of Practice be, and it is hereby,
amended so as to read as follows : " The court may in its discre
tion, without motion, and shall, on motion of any party in inter
est, require the distributee or legatee, before receiving his
distributable share or legacy, if received within five years after
the grant of administration, to execute bond, with good surety
to the Commonwealth, conditioned to pay his proportion, not
exceeding the amount received by him, of any debt which may
appear against the estate of the decedent within said period."
{Form of bond, page 404-)
% 436 [472]. When creditors may be enjoined from suing.
Upon the institution of the action mentioned in this chapter, an
order may be made enjoining the prosecution of actions against the
representatives of a decedent, by creditors, for their demands. But
such enjoining shall not be made, unless the action for the settlement
of the estate be commenced within three years after the qualification
ot the personal representative.
§ 437 [473]. Affidavit and demand not dispensed with—
exceptions to rule. The provisions of sections 35 to 39, both inclu
sive, of article 2, chapter 39, of the General Statutes, concerning
decedents' estates, are adopted as part of this Code, except that the
demand therein mentioned need not be made, if the personal repre
sentative of the decedent be a non-resident of this State or shall have
been absent therefrom four months. {These sections of statute require
creditor to make affidavit, and demand payment. Form of affidavit,
page Jfil'.)
§ 438. Foregoing provisions apply to trust estates. The fore
going provisions of this chapter shall, so far as applicable, regulate
proceedings for the sale of property held in trust, by virtue of the
provisions of article 2, of chapter 44, of the General Statutes, or
assigned by a debtor for the payment of debts generally : but subsection 2 of section 428 shall not be so construed as to require all
creditors holding liens upon the property by virtue of the statute, or
under the deed of assignment, to be made parties.
CHAPTER IV.
Enforcing the Satisfaction of Judgments.
| 439. Proceedings to enforce satisfaction of judgment after return of no property.
§ 440. Defendant must verify answer—how discoveries enforced.
\ 441. Plaintiff may have attachment without affidavit or bond.
\ 442. How lien created on property of defendant.
\ 443. How court may enforce surrender of money or property.
§ 439 [474]. Proceedings to enforce satisfaction of judgment
after return of no property. After an execution of fieri facias,
directed to the county in which the judgment was rendered, or to the
county of the defendant's residence, is returned by the proper officer,
either as to the whole or part thereof, in substance, no property
found to satisfy the same, the plaintifff in the execution may institute
an equitable action for the discovery of any money, chose in action,
equitable or legal interest, and all other property to which the defend
ant is entitled, and for subjecting the same to the satisfaction of the
judgment; and in such actions, persons indebted to the defendant,
or holding money or property in which he has an interest, or holding
evidences or securities for the same, may be also made defendants.
( Ven ue of action, sec 70.)
% 440 [475]. Defendant must verify answer—how discoveries
enforced. The answer of each defendant shall be verified by hia
oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney, and the court shall, if
necessary, enforce full and explicit discoveries in such answers by
process of contempt.
§ 441 [476]. Plaintiff may have attachment without affidavit
or bond. In such action the plaintifff may have an attachment
against the property of the defendant in the execution, similar to the
general attachments provided for in chapter 3, of title 8, without
either the affidavit or bond therein required.
§ 442 [477]. How lien created on property of defendant. A
lien shall be created on the property of the defendant by the levy of
the attachment ; or by service of the summons, with the object of the
action indorsed thereon, on the person holding or controlling his
property. [Except against defendant constructively summoned, sec.
£18; form of indorsement, page
§ 443 [478]. How court may enforce surrender of money or
property. The court shall enforce the surrender of the money or
securities therefore, or of any other property of the defendant in the
execution, which may be discovered in the action ; and for this pur
pose may commit to jail any defendant or garnishee failing or refus
ing to make such surrender, until it shall be done, or until the court
be satisfied that it is out of his power to do so.
CHAPTER V.
Summary Procecdings.
I 444. In what cases judgment may be rendered on motion.
\ 445. Notice must be served ten days before motion.
\ 446. What the notice must state.
447. Unless made or entered on day specified, abandoned.
\ 448. May be made on any day of term.
\ 449. Written pleadings not required -how judgment given.
§ 444 [479]. In what cases judgment may be rendered on
motion. A judgment may be obtained, on motion, by a surety
against his principal or co-surety for money paid ; by a client against
his attorney for money collected or property received ; by a party or
officer against a surety for costs ; and by a party against an officer
for money collected or property received, and for the damages which
such party is entitled to recover; and in all other cases specially
authorized by statute ; and the service of the notice shall be regarded
as the commencement of the proceeding.
§ 445 [480]. Notice must be served ten days before motion.
Notice of such motion shall be served on the the party against whom
the judgment is sought, at least ten days before the motion is made.
(By whom , and how, served, secs. 634 to 630.)
§ 446 [481]. What the notice must state. The notice shall state
the nature and grounds of the motion, and the day on which it will
be made.
§ 447 [482]. Unless made or entered on day specified aban
doned. Unless the motion be made or entered on the motion docket
on the day specified in the notice, it shall be considered as abandoned.
§ 448 [483]. May be made on any day of term. Such motion
mentioned in this chapter may be made on any day of the term of
the court.
§ 449 [484]. Written pleadings not required—how judgment
given. Tiie motion may be heard and determined upon or without
written pleadings, and judgment shall be given according to law and
the rules of equity.
CHAPTER VI.
Civil Procecdings on Behalf of the Commonwealth,
i 450. Certain Provisions of General Statutes adopted.
§ 450 [485 to 498]. Certain provisions of General Statutes
adopted. The provisions of chapter 92, article 11, of the General
Statutes are adopted as part of this Code. (This article of Statute
provides how money due the State by sheriff or other officers may be
collected.)
CHAPTER VII. ..
Arbitrations and Awards.
i 451. Provisions concerning.
1. What controversies may be submitted to, and how.
2. Must take oath before acting.
8. Power of to subpoena witnesses.
4. Who may agree to decision by.
5. If arbitrator refuse to act, court may appoint another.
6. Powers and duties of.
7. Award to be entered as judgment.
8. Power of court over awards.
9. How controversies in justice's courts arbitrated.
§ 451 [499], 1. Provisions concerning. Any controversy which
is or might be the subject of au action may, at the request of those
interested therein, be submitted to the decision of one or more arbi
trators, or to two and their umpire, by the order of any court having
jurisdiction of the subject. The parties making such submission
Bhall, if there be no action pending, by written agreement filed and
noted on the record, or by an entry on the record, state what question
is submitted. The order of court shall state the time in which the
award is to be made and returned, but the court may enlarge the time.
2. Arbitrators and the umpire, if there be one, before they
proceed to act shall take an oath to decide the controversy to
them submitted according to law and evidence and the equity of
tht, case, to the best of their judgment, without favor or affec
tion ; and a certificate of such oath shall be returned to the court
with the award.
3. Any one of the arbitrators shall have power to issue subpoenas
for witnesses to attend their sittings and give evidence
touching the questions referred to them, to which all sheriff's and
other like officers shall give obedience. Witnesses failing to
attend before arbitrators at the time and place designated, or who
shall refuse to give evidence when they do attend, shall be
reported to the court by the arbitrators, and be proceeded against
and punished as if the case had been pending in court.
4. The personal representative of a decedent, the guardian,
committee, or curator of a person under disability, or any trus
tee, may agree to such submission. Upon such submission, made
in good faith, the award shall be binding, and be entered as the
judgment of the court. No such fiduciary shall be responsible
for any loss resulting from an award adverse to the interest he
represents, unless caused by his fault or neglect.
5. If any arbitrator fail or refuse to act, the court may appoint
another, or set aside the order of reference.
6. The arbitrators and umpire, if there be one, shall meet at
such convenient times and places as may be necessary, of which
the parties shall have reasonable notice, and hear such evidence
as either party may adduce. They shall have power to admin
ister oaths. They shall make their award in writing, stating
therein when it is made, and sign it; and shall deliver a copy of
it to each of the contending parties, and return the original to
the court with indorsements showing the time of delivering a
copy to each party.
7. The award shall be entered as the judgment of the court at
the first term, ten days before which copies of the award are
delivered to the parties, unless, on exceptions filed, it be set aside
by the court.
8. No award shall be set aside for the want of form. But
courts shall have power over awards on equitable principles as
heretofore.
. . 9. Controversies within the jurisdiction of a justice of the
peace may be submitted for arbitration in the same manner, and
the proceedings shall be the same as are above authorized and
required. Either party may appeal to the circuit court from the
judgment of the justice on the award, as in other cases. (Con
troversy may without suitbe submitted to court, sec. 637.)
CHAPTER VIII.
Forcible Entry and Detainer.
\ 452. Forcible entry and detainer defined.
\ 453. Not necessary that tenant should receive possession from landlord.
\ 454. Who may issue warrant— form of.
\ 455. How warrant executed.
# 456. To whom warrant returned —trial of.
\ 457. Duty and powers of justice at trial.
? 458. Who may issue subpoenas, attendance of witnesses coerced.
? 450. Form of inquest—to whom returned —proceedings if jury disagree.
\ 460. Judgment to be entered on inquest — form of.
% 461. Proceedings if inquest not traversed.
? 462. Justice to preserve all papers.
it 463. Time in which traverse must be filed —form of—how taken.
\ 464. What damages recoverable on traverse bond.
\ 465. Proceedings on the traverse in circuit court.
\ 466. Proceedings in circuit court after judgment.
} 467. Court may enjoin waste pending proceedings.
\ 468. Proceedings on forcible entry or detainer no bar to trespass.
\ 469. limitation of two years.
§ 452 [500]. First : Forcible entry and detainer defined. The
words " possession,"' "entry," "detainer," in this chapter, refer to
lands and tenements.
Second: A forcible entry is-—
1. An entry without the consent of the person having the
actual possession.
2. As to a landlord, an entry upon the possession of his tenant
at will or by sufferance, whether with or without the tenant's
consent.
Third: A forcible detainer is—
1. The refusal of a tenant to give possession to his landlord
after the expiration of his term ; or of a tenant at will or by
sufferance to give possession to the landlord after the determina
tion of his will.
2. The refusal of a tenant of a person who has made a forcible
entry to give possession, on demand, to the person upon whose
possession the forcible entry was made.
3. The refusal of a person who has made a forcible entry upon
the possession of one who acquired it by a forcible entry to give
possession, on demand, to him upon whose possession the first
forcible entry was made.
4. The refusal of a person who has made a forcible entry upon
the possession of a tenant for a term to deliver possession to the
landlord, upon demand, after the term expires ; and, if the term,
expire whilst a writ of forcible entry sued out by the tenant is
pending, the landlord may, at his cost and for his benefit, prose
cute it in the name of the tenant.
§ 453 [501]. Not necessary that tenant should receive pos
session from landlord- It is not material whether the tenant shall
have received possession from his landlord, or have become his tenant
after obtaining possession.
§ 454 [502]. Who may issue warrant—form of. Upon com
plaint by a person aggrieved by a forcible entry or detainer to a
justice of the peace or county judge of the county in which the land
or tenement, or a principal part thereof, lies, he shall issue his war
rant to the sheriff, or any constable, in substance as follows: " The
Commonwealth of Kentucky to the Sheriff [or any Constable] of
county : "Whereas, A. B. hath made complaint to me, J. S., a justice of
the peace [or county judge] for said county, that C. D. and E. F. did,
on the day of , forcibly enter into [or forcibly detain from
the said A. B.] one house and field on the waters of , in the
county aforesaid [or other general description of the lands or tene
ments], which were in the peaceable possession of A. B. [or which the
said C. D. and E. F., tenants of the said A. B., now hold against him] :
You are, thereforee, commanded to summon a good and lawful jury of
your county to meet on the premises, or at a place convenient thereto,
on the day of , to inquire into the forcible entry [or for
cible detainer] aforesaid ; and give to the said C. I). ami E. F. at least
three days' notice of the time and place of the meeting of the jury,
and have then there this writ. "Witness, etc."
Act of April SO, 1888: § 1. In the trial of writs of forci
ble entry, forcible detainer, or forcible entry and detainer, if
neither party, in person or by agent or attorney, demand a jury,
the trial thereof shall be by the judge or justice presiding; and
in such event the judge or justice shall try all questions arising,
whether of law or of fact. No such writ shall hereafter direct
the summoning of a jury, and the sheriff or other officer to
whose hands such writ may come to do execution thereof, shall
not summon a jury in such proceeding, unless he be by either
party notified in writing that a jury is demanded. At the call
ing of the cause for trial either party may demand a jury.
§ 2. The right to traverse the finding of the judge or justice
shall be the same as if a verdict had been rendered by a jury.
§ 3. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent herewith are
repealed, so far as they conflict herewith ; and this act shall be in
force from its passage.
§ 455 [503]. How warrant executed. The officer shall give to
each defendant notice, according to the directions of the warrant,
and no inquiry shall be made against any defendant who has not been
notified as aforesaid. If, however, the notice have been given to a
defendant, but not three days before the day of the meeting of the
jury, the inquest shall, on his motion, be adjourned until the expiration
of the three days. (Service of notice if defendant can not be found, sec
Gen. Stat., chap. 66, art. 6, sec. 4; and sec. 625)
§ 456 [504]. To whom warrant returned — trial of. At the
time for holding the inquisition, the officer shall return the warrant
to any justice who may attend, or to the county judge, if in attend
ance, with an indorsement stating when and upon whom it was exe
cuted and the place designated by the officer for holding the inquisi
tion, together with a panel of the jury; whereupon, the justice or
judge, whether the defendant is present or not, shall administer an
oath to the jurors in substance as follows: "You, and each of you,
shall well and truly inquire into and return whether or not the
defendant [or defendants] is [or are] guilty of the forcible entry [or
detainer] complained of in the warrant in this cause : so help you.
God."
§ 457 [505]. Duty and powers of justice at trial. Such justice
or judge shall superintend the taking of the inquisition, swear wit
nesses, decide legal questions which may arise, preserve the peace,
enforce the rules of decorum, and punish, according to law, con
tempts of his authority.
§ 458 [506]. Who may issue subpoenas—attendance of wit
nesses coerced. The judge or any justice of the peace may issue
subpoenas for witnesses at the request of either party, and their
attendance and testifying may be coerced by the justice or judge who
presides at the inquest. (Form of subpoena, page 421-)
§ 459 [507]. Form of inquest—to whom returned—proceed
ings if jury disagree. The jurors, after hearing the evidence, shall,
by their inquest, say whether the defendants, or either of them, be
guilty or not guilty of the forcible entry or detainer complained of ;
and shall return their inquest, signed by one of their body, to the
justice of the peace or judge who presides. If the jury do not
agree, it may be discharged, and another be ordered to be summoned
to meet, either immediately, or at some future day to be then and
there fixed and indorsed on the warrant; and this proceeding shall
be continued until a jury agree.
§ 460 [508]. Judgment to be entered on inquest— form of.
Upon the return of the inquest the judge or justice shall enter a
judgment according to the inquisition, either for the plaintifff, in sub
stance, that he have restitution of the premises aforesaid, and recover
of the defendants his costs in this behalf expended ; or for the
defendants, in substance, that they recover of the plaintifff their costs
in this behalf expended; or for the plaintifff against some of the
defendants, and for the other defendants against the plaintifff, if some
be found guilty and others not guilty.
§ 461 [509]. Proceedings if inquest not traversed. If the party
against whom the inquisition is found fail to file a traverse of the
inquisition with the judge or justice who presided, on or before the
third day after the finding of the inquest, the judge or justice shall,
on request, issue his execution for the costs ; and, if the inquisition
be in favor of the plaintifff, he shall also issue his warrant of restitu
tion in substance as follows : " Count;/. To the Sheriff [or
any constable] of county : Whereas, C. D. and E. F. have, by ait
inquisition taken before me, J. P., a justice of the peace for said county,
been found guilty of a forcible entry in [or detainer of] one house
and field, lying on the waters of , in the county aforesaid [or
other general description of the possessions], to the injury of A. B.r
You are, thereforee, in the name of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
commanded that, with the power of the county if necessary, you put
the said A. B. in the possession of said premises; and make return
within days to me, how you have executed this warrant.
Given under my hand this day . , J. P."
§ 462 [510]. Justice to preserve all papers. The judge or jus
tice of the peace shall carefully preserve all papers, records, and pro
ceedings, relating to the cause, unless he transmit them to the clerk
as hereinafter directed ; and shall deliver, to any person requiring it,
a transcript thereof, such person paying him therefore two cents for
every twenty words in such transcript.
§ 463 [511]. Time in which traverse must be filed—form
of—how taken. If either party conceive himself aggrieved by the
finding of the jury, he may file a traverse thereof with the judge or
justice, within three days next after the finding aforesaid, in sub
stance as follows : " A. B. against C. D„ on a writ of forcible entry [or
detainer]. The plaintifff [or the defendant] says that the inquisition
returned in this cause is not true ; wherefore, he prays that proceed
ings thereon may be stayed until the same can be tried according to
law. A. B. ; " and shall also, within the same time, before said judge
or justice, give bond with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
judge or justice, to his adversary, in substance as follows: " A.B. vs.
C. D., on a writ of forcible entry [or detainer']. Whereas, upon a writ
of forcible entry [or detainer] in favor of A. B. against C. D., tried
before , a justice of the peace of county, a verdict was
rendered for the said A. B., on the day of , which the said
C. D. has traversed ; the said C. D. and E. F., his surety, covenant to pay
to the said A. B. the costs of said proceeding and all damages caused
to him by said traverse, it' iiot prosecuted with effect : " whereupon,
the judge or justice shall stay all further proceedings on the inqui
sition, and return the whole of the papers and proceedings, or a fair
transcript thereof, to the office of the circuit court of said county,
within ten days thereafter.
§ 464 [512]. What damages recoverable on traverse bond.
Upon this bond, if the traverser fail to prosecute his traverse with
effect, he and his surety shall be liable for the damages for withhold
ing the possession which the traversee may be entitled to recover
against the traverser, during the pendency of the traverse, either in
the circuit court or Court of Appeals, as well as the reasonable
expenses of the traversee in defending the traverse.
§ 465 [513]. Proceedings on the traverse in the circuit court.
The clerk shall docket the traverse as other actions ; it shall stand
for trial as docketed ; the traversee shall join issue on the traverse ;
and it shall be tried by a jury, and judgment given on the verdict, as
in other cases : Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall
be construed to prevent the court from giving judgment against
either party for default, nor from deciding any question of law as in
other cases.
§ 466 [514]. Proceedings in circuit court after judgment.
After a cause is returned to the circuit court, execution for cost, or
for restitution, shall issue from the office of that court, according to
the judgment in the cause.
§ 467 [515]. Court may enjoin waste pending proceedings.
The court before whom such cause may be depending, or any judge
thereof in vacation, may restrain waste or destruction of the premises,
and may enforce its order by fine and imprisonment or either.
§ 468 [516]. Proceedings on forcible entry or detainer no bar
to trespass. The proceedings under a writ of forcible entry or
detainer shall not bar an action for trespass or waste or rent or mesne
profits.
§ 469 [517]. Limitation of two years. No inquisition of forcible
entry or forcible detainer shall be taken at any time after two yeara
from the forcible entry or detainer complained of.
CHAPTER IX.
Probate of Wills,
\ 470. Provisions of General Statutes concerning adopted.
§ 470 [519]. Provisions of General Statutes concerning
adopted. The provisions of sections 26 to 42, both inclusive, of
chapter 113 of the General Statutes, regulating the probate of wills,
are adopted as part of this Code. ( Venue of action to establish, or set
aside, sec. 64-)
CHAPTER X.
• Settlement of the Accounts of Fiduciaries by the County Court.
\ 471. Provisions of General Statutes as to settlements of fiduciaries adopted.
\ 472. Settlements of committees and trustees.
§ 471 [520]. Provisions of General Statutes as to settlements
of fiduciaries adopted. The provisions of article 14, chapter 28, of
the General Statutes, regulating the settlement of the accounts of
personal representatives and guardians, are adopted as part of this
Code.
§ 472 [521]. Settlements of committees and trustees. The
accounts of committees and trustees may be settled in the same man
ner, and the settlements shall have the same ett'ect, as prescribed by
section 471. The county court of the county in which the committee
is appointed, or in which the deed or will creating the trusts is
recorded, shall have the jurisdiction of making the settlements.
Act of April 25, 18S4, Providing for Recording Settlements:
§ 1. That hereafter, when the court may so direct, settlements
of the accounts of personal representatives, trustees, guardians,
or other fiduciary, made before a commissioner of any chancery,
common pleas, or circuit court of this State, and reported by
such commissioner, and all reports of estates or funds received or
disbursed, under order of the court, by its receiver, after the same
shall have been confirmed by the cpurt, shall be recorded by the
clerk of such court in a book to be provided for that purpose.
§ 2. The vouchers accompanying such settlements or reports
shall not be recorded.
§ 3. The clerk of such court shall be entitled to the same fees
allowed by law to clerks of the county courts for similar services.
§ 4. The commissioner or receiver of the court making such
settlement or report shall allow, and state on the face thereof, the
amount of fees that will be due to the clerk for recording.
CHAPTER XI.
Caveats.
? 473. Provisions concerning.
1. Who may enter caveat—-statement of.
2. Copy of to be filed with circuit clerk.
3. Caveat to be treated as petition —proceedings on.
4. Summons to be executed and returned.
5. Time within which copy of judgment must be filed in land office,
6. No grant to issue to land in contest until caveat disposed of.
7. When plaintifff can not have another caveat against same grant.
8. Court may require plaintifff to secure costs.
§ 473 [522]. 1. Provisions concerning. If any person obtain a
survey of land to which another claims a better right, such other
may enter a caveat with the Register to prevent the issuing of a
grant until the right be determined. The caveat shall state the
plaintifff's claim and the reasons why the grant should not issue. It
shall be verified by his affidavit, or by that of his agent, and declare
that it is entered in good faith, with the intention of procuring the
land for the plaintifff, and not for the benefit of the person against
whom it is entered.
2. A copy of the caveat, certified by the Register, shall, within
sixty days from the time it is entered, be lodged with the clerk
of the circuit court of the county where the land or the greater
part thereof lies. Failure so to lodge such copy shall be deemed
an abandonment of the caveat; and it may be disregarded by
the Register, upon the clerk's certificate of such failure being
filed in his office.
3. If such copy be lodged within said period, it shall be
treated as a petition, and the proceedings upon it shall be the
same, including an appeal to the Court of Appeals, as those in
an ordinary action.
4. If the summons be not returned in due time, or be returned
not executed, the caveat shall be dismissed, if it be shown that
the non-execution or non-return was procured by the plaintifff or
resulted from hie neglect.
5. A copy of the judgment, if in favor of the defendant, must
be delivered into the Land Office within three months from the
time it is rendered; or a new caveat may, for that cause, be
entered against the grant. If the judgment be for the plaintifff,
and a copy thereof be not delivered into the Land Office within
six months from the time it was rendered, any other person may,
for that cause, enter another caveat against the grant.
6. No grant shall issue to the land in contest, to the plaintifff
in the caveat, or to another for his use, until the caveat be dis
missed or decided ; and any such grant, to the extent of such
land, shall be void.
7. If the plaintifff do not prosecute his caveat as herein
required, or if the same be dismissed or decided against him,
neither he nor any other for his use shall have another caveat
against the same grant.
8. The court may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to give
security for costs ; and upon his failure to do so may dismiss the
proceeding.
CHAPTER XII.
Writs of Mandamus and Prohibition.
\ 474. Writs of—how obtained and prosecuted.
\ 475. Court to decide all questions upon —order of court final.
? 476. Temporary preventive orders may be made.
\ 477. Mandamus defined.
\ 478. Commonwealth may appeal without security.
\ 479. Prohibition defined.
§ 474 [523]. Writs of—how obtained and prosecuted. Writs
of mandamus, except those used by a court for enforcing its judgments or orders, and writs of prohibition shall be obtained by motion,
and prosecuted in the manner provided in title 10, chapter 5, except
that the applicant shall file a petition, wherein he shall state the cause
and ground of his application before giving notice of his motion ; to
which the party against whom the mandamus or prohibition is sought
shall hie a demurrer or an answer, at or before the time fixed for mak
ing the motion.
§ 475 [524]. Court to decide all questions upon—order of
court final. The court shall hear and decide all questions of law or
feet arising on the motion, and the granting or refusing of the writ
shall be the final order on the motion. (The amendment of May 15,
1886, was repealed by act of January IS, 1888.)
§ 476 [525]. Temporary preventive orders may be made.
Duriugthe pendency of the motion, the court or judge, in vacation,
may make temporary orders for preventing damage or injury to the
applicant until the motion is decided.
§ 477 [526]. Mandamus defined. The writ of mandamus, as
treated of in this chapter, is an order of a court of competent and
original jurisdiction, commanding an executive or ministerial officer
to perform an act, or omit to do an act, the performance or omis
sion of which is enjoined by law ; and is granted on the motion of
the party aggrieved, or of the Commonwealth when the public in
terest is affected.
§ 478 [527]. Commonwealth may appeal without security.
If an interest, right or claim, of the Commonwealth be affected by
the final order on an application for a writ of mandamus, the Attorney
General may prosecute an appeal without security.
§ 479 [528]. Prohibition denned. The writ of prohibition is an
order of the circuit court to an inferior court of limited jurisdiction,
prohibiting it from proceeding in a matter out of its jurisdiction.
CHAPTER XIII.
Repealing or Vacating Charters, an/I Preventing the Usurpation of
an Offi.ee or Franchise.
\ 480. .Ordinary action to be brought.
? 481. Action to repeal charter, how brought and prosecuted.
i> 482. Order of Legislature necessary to repeal certain charters.
$ 483. Who may bring action against usurper.
\ 484. When duty of Commonwealth's attorney to bring action.
\ 485. When duty of Attorney-General.
\ 486. Person holding office after forfeiture is a usurper.
\ 487. What judgment to be rendered against usurper.
\ 488. How fees received by, recovered.
§ 480 [529.] Ordinary action to be brought. In lieu of the
.writs of scire facias and quo warranto, or of an information in the
nature of a quo warranto, ordinary actions may be brought to vacate
or repeal charters, and to prevent the usurpation of an office or
franchise. (Verification of plea/lings not required, sec. 116-6.)
§ 481 [530]. Action to repeal charter, how brought and pros
ecuted. The action to repeal or vacate a charter shall be in the
name of the Commonwealth, and be brought and prosecuted by the
Attorney-General, or under his sanction and direction by an attorney
for the Commonwealth.
§, 482 [531]. Order of Legislature necessary to repeal certain
charters. Actions to repeal or vacate the charters of municipal
corporations; banks; railroad, turnpike road, and internal improve
ment, companies, shall only be instituted by order of the Legislature,
unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 483 [532]. Who may bring action against usurper. If a
person usurp an office or franchise, the person entitled thereto, or the
Commonwealth, may preverlt the usurpation by an ordinary action.
§ 484 [533]. When duty of Commonwealth's attorney to bring
action. It shall be the duty of the several Commonwealth attor
neys to institute the actions mentioned in this chapter, against
usurpers of county offices or franchises, if no other person be
entitled thereto, or if the person entitled fail to institute the same
during three months after the usurpation.
§ 485 [534]. When duty of Attorney-General. For usurpation
of other than county offices or franchises, the action by the Com
monwealth shall be instituted and prosecuted by the AttorneyGeneral.
§ 486 [535]. Person holding office after forfeiture is a
usurper. A person who continues to exercise an office after having
committed an act, or omitted to do an act, the commission or omis
sion of which, by law, creates a forfeiture of his office, may be pro
ceeded against for usurpation thereof.
§ 487 [536]. What judgment to be rendered against usurper.
A person adjudged to have usurped an office or franchise shall be
deprived thereof by the judgment of the court, and the person
adjudged entitled thereto shall be placed in possession thereof; but
no one shall be adjudged entitled thereto, unless the action be insti
tuted by him. And the court shall have power to enforce its judgraent by causing the books and papers, and all other things pertain
ing to the office or franchise, to be surrendered by the usurper; and
by preventing him from further exercising or using the same; and
may enforce its orders by fine and imprisonment until obeyed.
§ 488 [537]. How fees received by, recovered. If the usurper
have received fees and emoluments arising from the office or fran
chise, he shall be liable therefore to the person entitled thereto, who
may claim the same in the action brought to deprive him of the office
or franchise, or in a separate action. If no one be entitled to them,
they may be recovered by the Commonwealth, and shall be paid into
lhe public treasury.
CHAPTER XIV.
Sales of Real Property of forsons Under Disability, Etc.
ARTICLE I.
'i 489. For what purposes realty of infants and persons of unsound mind may
be sold.
? 490. When realty of joint owners may be sold.
\ 491. When reversion or remainder may be sold.
i 492. Requirements as to sales under sections 489, 491.
$ 493. Bond to be executed in certain cases—provisions concerning—married
woman to answer.
? 494. Provisions as to sales—deeds—proceeds of sales—parties —trustees.
? 495. Concerning compensation for dower.
\ 496. When bond not required—sale if share not worth one hundred dollars.
\ 497. When purchase money to remain lien on land until bond executed.
I, 498. Joinder of parties, plaintifffs and defendants.
§ 489. For what purposes realty of infants and persons of
unsound mind may be sold. A vested estate of an infant or of a
person of unsound mind, in real property, may be sold by order of a
court of equity —
1. For the payment of any debt or liability of his ancestor or
devisor with which he may be legally chargeable, in an action
brought against him pursuant to section 428; or in an action
brought against him by a creditor of the ancestor or devisor,
unless it be enjoined pursuant to section 426 [436].
2. For the payment of his debt or liability, in an action brought
against him by his creditor.
3. In an action by a guardian against his ward, for a sale of
the estate for the maintenance and education of the ward.
4. In an action by a committee of a person of unsound mind
against him, for a sale of the estate for his maintenance, or for the
maintenance of himself and his family, including the education
of his infant children.
5. In an action against a person of unsound mind by his com
mittee ; or against an infant by his guardian ; or, if the infant be
a married woman, by her husband, if he be twenty-one years of
age, if not, by her next friend, for a sale of the estate and invest
ment in other property. ( Venue of action, secs. 6'£,6o; as to
defense by, and service of summons on, sec secs. 36, 52, 63.)
§ 490 [542, 543]. When realty of joint owners may be sold.
A vested estate in real property jointly owned by two or more per
sons may be sold by order of a court of equity, in an action brought
by either of them, though the plaintifff or defendant be of unsound
mind or an infant—
1. If the share of each owner be worth loss than one hundred
dollars.
2. If the estate be in possession and the property can not be
divided without materially impairing its value, or the value of
the plaintifff's interest therein.
§ 491. When reversion or remainder may be sold. In an
. equitable action by the owner of a particular estate of freehold in
possession, or by his guardian or committee, if he be an infant or of
unsound mind, against the owner of the reversion or remainder,
though he be an infant or of unsound mind, and against the owner of
the particular estate, if he be an infant or of unsound mind ; or, if
the remainder be contingent, against the person, if in being, in whom
it would have vested, if the contingency had happened before com
mencement of the action, though he be an infant or of unsound
mind, and against the owner of the particular estate, if he be an
infant or of unsound mind —real property may be sold for investment
of the proceeds in other real property.
§ 492 [541]. Requirements as to sales under sections 489,
491. In the actions mentioned in sub-sections 3, 4, and 5 of section
489, and in section 491 —
1 [§ 544]. No sale shall be ordered if forbidden by the deed,
will, or contract, under which the property is held.
2. The title papers, or copies of them, under which the prop
erty is held, must be filed with the petition.
3 [§ 541]. The wife and children, if any, of the person of
unsound mind must be made defendants to the action.
4. Facts must be stated in the petition, and must be proved,
showing that the sale will benefit the defendant ; or, in the
action mentioned in section 491, facts must be stated in the peti
tion, and must be proved, showing that the sale will benefit the
parties interested in the property. (Evidence to be taken on inter
rogatories, sec. 674.)
§ 493. Bond to be executed in certain cases —provisions con
cerning—married woman to answer. Subject to the provisions
of sections 496 and 497, and excepting the cases mentioned in sub
sections 1 and 2 of section 489 —
1. The guardian of each infant, the committee of each person
of unsound mind, and the husband or next friend of each mar
ried woman, must, before the sale is ordered, execute a bond to
the infant, infant married woman, or person of unsound mind,
with at least two sureties, worth not less than double the value
of the estate to be sold, in substance as follows : " We ,
principal, and , sureties, bind ourselves to that the said
, as guardian [or committee or husband or next friend], will
faithfully discharge all his duties as such, and will comply with
the judgments and orders of the court in the action, and will
acc ount for, pay, and deliver, to the said all money or prop
erty due or belonging to him, when required."
2. The court shall indorse its approval on said bond, which
shall be recorded with the order of sale, and certified by the
clerk of said court, who shall deliver it to the clerk of the
county court; and it shall be by him recorded and properly
indexed.
3. If bond be not given, any order of sale, and any sale or
conveyance made under such order, shall be absolutely void and
of no effect.
4. In an action against an infant married woman, no order of
sale shall be made until she file an answer consenting to the sale
and acknowledge it, on privy examination, before the court, or
the judge thereof, or a commissioner appointed by the court.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 494 1 . Provisions as to sales —deeds —proceeds of salesparties —trustees. The court shall appoint a suitable person, as
<jon,nissioner, to execute its judgment.
2. The court shall cause the title of the property to be con
veyed by a commissioner to the purchaser, without warranty.
3. The conveyance must be acknowledged before and approved
by the court, and be certified by its clerk to the clerk of the
,county court for record.
4. In the actions for investment authorized by section 489, the
,court shall order the proceeds of sales to be invested, subject to
its approval, in real estate in or out of this State, or in bonds of
the United States or of this State, or in the stock of a bank of
this State, subject to the same uses, trusts, and limitations, as the
,estate sold was subject to.
5. In the actions mentioned in sub-sections 3 and 4 of section
489, the court shall make proper orders for the preservation and
,disbursement of the proceeds of the sale.
6. If the owner of real estate which may have been sold under
the provisions of this chapter die during infancy; or, being of
unsound mind, die intestate ; or, being an adult married woman,
die without having received the proceeds of sale upon her writ
ten request, and upon privy examination as is authorized by this
chapter, or without disposing in the manner authorized by law of
the property in which the proceeds may have been invested, the
person who would have been entitled to the property, if it had
not been sold, shall be entitled to the proceeds, or to the property
in which they may have been invested.
7. All persons interested in the property must be made parties ;
and, if objection to the sale be made by a defendant having a
joint interest, his share shall not be sold, but the property may
be divided, and a sale of the shares of those desiring it may be
ordered, if such division and sale can be made without materiallyimpairing
the value of the property or of the plaintifff's interest
therein.
8. If a deed or will give to a trustee a discretionary power to
sell the property, the court shall not have power to order a sale
of it without the consent of the trustee.
§ 495. Concerning compensation for dower. If a woman have
a vested or contingent right to dower in land ordered to be sold pur
suant to the provisions of this chapter, the court, with her consent,
to be taken upon privy examination if she be married and of sound
mind, or without her consent if she be of unsound mind, may order
a sale of the land free from her right; and shall provide for reason
able compensation to her out of the proceeds of sale, or that she shall
have the same right in property purchased with the proceeds as she
had in the property sold. (As to the sale and conveyance of inchoate
right of dower of married women who art lunatics, see act of March
14, 1878. As to relinquishment of dower by wife of insane husband, see
act of February 11, 1876.
§ 496. 1. When bond not required—sale if share not worth
one hundred dollars. In the action mentioned in sub-section 1 of
section 490 neither the bond nor the privy examination provided for
in this chapter shall be required.
2. If the share of a joint owner be of less probable value than
one hundred dollars, a sale of it may be ordered, though the
owner of a share worth more than one hundred dollars may not
consent to a sale.
§ 497 [543]. 1. When purchase money to remain lien on land
until bond executed. In the action mentioned in sub-section 2 of
section 490, the share of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind,
shall not be paid by the purchaser; but shall remain a lien on the
land bearing interest until the infant become of age, or the person
of unsound mind become of sound mind, or until the guardian of
the infant, or the committee of the person of unsound mind, execute
bond as is required by section 493.
2. The infant upon becoming of age, or the person of unsound
mind upon becoming of sound mind, or the guardian or com
mittee of the infant or person of unsound mind upon executing
bond, may receive the proceeds; but, if the infant be a married
woman, the provisions of sub-section 6 of section 494 must be
complied with.
3. The proceeds when received by a married woman shall be
her separate property.
4. The court may permit the guardian or committee, without
executing the bond above mentioned, or the married woman,
though she be an infant, to receive the interest on the money
until it is paid.
§ 498. Joinder of parties plaintifffs and defendants. Two or
more persons, either of whom can bring the action mentioned in sub
section 5 of section 489, may join therein against defendants who
jointly own the property mentioned in the petition.
Amendment of April 15, 186'2: § 1. That when lands are held
in trust by one person for the life of another, with remainder over
to a class of persons, or to any person not ascertained or to be
ascertained until the death of the person upon whose life such
estate for life is made to depend, or with power on the part of such
person for whose life such life estate is held by the trustee, to dis
pose by a last will and testament, or by an instrument in the nature
of a last will and testament, it shall be competent for the circuit
courts or courts of like jurisdiction in the county in which suchland
or a part thereof is situate, in an action to which all persons
having a present or vested interest in such land are parties, to>
direct the trustee to either sell or mortgage such land ; but in all
action it must be averred apd proven to the court that such sale
or mortgage would be beneficial to all the parties concerned, and
facts showing such benefits must be alleged and proven. Any deed
or mortgage executed under authority, or in pursuance of any
judgment rendered in any such action, shall be held and con
strued and have the same effect as if executed by every person
having a vested or contingent interest in or ownership of sucli
land, and as if executed by all persons and classes who could
take under the limitations or provisions of said deed, or as devi
sees under the exercise of such power to devise or appoint, and
as if every claimant, present or future, under such deed or power,
was under no disability whatever. The proceeds of the sale*
authorized by this section shall be paid into court, and shall be
reinvested by the court after first having, by appropriate order,
provided for the payment of the costs and taxes, if any, in other
property to be conveyed and held subject to the same limitations
and trusts as the land sold was held. The proceeds of all mort
gages of such lands as are mentioned in this section shall be paid
into court, and shall be appropriated under the order of the
court in the construction of permanent improvements on the
land mortgaged. But before appropriating such money in the
construction of such improvements, the, court shall provide for
the payment of all unpaid taxes on said land, and the costs of
the action. The court shall require the life-tenant, out of the
rents, to pay the taxes and insurance on such improvements, and
residue of the rents to be paid into court for disposition by the
court until such mortgage debt is fully paid off; and such court
may provide for semi-annual reports to be made by such lifetenant;
and in the event of the disobedience of any order of
such court by such life-tenant, it shall be the duty of the court
to appoint a receiver, who shall take possession of such land and
hold the same as the court may direct, and collect and receive all
the rents and profits of such land, and pay the same into court
for such disposition thereof as the court may take. (By act of
April 24., 1SS2, this amendment \ras made general.)
CHAPTER XV.
Division of Land and Allotment of Dower.
\ 499. How land divided and dower allotted.
1. Petition for may be filed in circuit or county court—statements of.
2. Provisions as to persons under disability.
3. When court may order division or allot dower.
4. Three commissioners to be appointed — must be sworn.
5. Order to fix time and place of their meeting,
(i. Duties of commissioners.
7. Deeds to be made on confirmation of report.
8. Report and deeds to be recorded.
9. Two commissioners may act.
10. Defendant mav controvert petition —how case to be tried.
11. How action transferred from county to circuit court.
12. Appeal may be taken to Court of Appeals.
13. How costs apportioned.
14. Verification of pleadings not required.
15. Fees of commissioners to be taxed as costs.
16. Equity jurisdiction not affected.
§ 499 [546 to 556]. 1. How land divided and dower allotted.
A person desiring a division of land held jointly with others, or an
allotment of dower, may file in the circuit court or county court of
the county in which the land or the greater part thereof lies a peti
tion containing a description of the land, a statement of the names
of those having an interest in it, and the amount of such interest,
with a prayer for the division or allotment ; and, thereupon, all per
sons interested in the property who have not united in the petition
shall be summoned to answer on the first day of the next term of the
court. The written evidences of the title to the land, or copies thereof,
if there be any, must be filed with the petition.
2. The statutory guardian of an infant, committee of a person
of unsound mind, and husband of a married woman, may file or
unite in the petition, in the names of, and in conjunction with,
such infant, person of unsound mind, or married woman ; and,
if the petition be against an infant, person of unsound mind, or
married woman, the guardian, committee, or husband, may
appear and defend for them : if they fail to do so, the court shall
appoint a discreet person for that purpose.
3. Upon such a petition by all interested in the property; or
upon the service of a summons on all who have an interest in
the property and have not united in the petition, ten days
before the commencement of the term, the court may order the
division, or allottment of dower, according to the rights of the
parties.
4. The court shall appoint three competent persons to make
the partition, or allotment of dower, or both, having a due regard
to the rights of all parties interested. Before proceeding to act,
the commissioners shall take an oath to discharge their duty
impartially.
5. The order of appointment shall fix a time and place for the
meeting of the commissioners, who shall meet accordingly ; but,
if prevented from meeting at the time and place so fixed, they
may meet as soon thereafter as convenient ; and may adjourn to
such other time and place as they may agree upon, until their
duty shall be performed.
6. They shall survey and allot to the parties their respective
interests in the land, and make report thereof to the court ;
which may either confirm, set aside, or remand the report to the
commissioners for correction.
7. If the report be confirmed, a commissioner to be appointed
for the purpose shall, by deed, convey to each party the land
allotted to him.
8. Said report and deed shall be recorded in the clerk's office
of the county court, in proper books to be kept for that purpose ;
and, if the report be confirmed by the circuit court, it and the
deed shall be certified by the clerk of that court to the clerk of
the county court, for record.
9. Two of the commissioners may act, if one refuse or fail
to do so.
10. A party summoned may, by answer, controvert the alle
gations of the petition or contest the rights claimed therein ;
and, thereupon, the case shall be tried and decided as an ordinary
action, but without the intervention of a jury.
11. If the action be pending in the county court when such
answer is filed, it may be removed, on motion of either party,
to the circuit court, for trial; and the clerk shall, thereupon,
deliver the papers pertaining to the case to the clerk of the cir
cuit court.
12. An appeal may be taken to the Court of Appeals from a final
judgment, whether rendered by the circuit court or county court.
13. The costs of the action shall be apportioned among the
parties in the ratio of their interests, except that the costs arising
from a contest of fact or law shall be adjudged against the unsuc
cessful party.
14. No verification of the pleadings shall be required.
15. The commissioners shall be paid a reasonable compensa
tion, to be taxed as costs.
16. This section does not aff'ect the jurisdiction of courts of
equity to make partition or allot dower.
Act of May 15, 1886, Providing for Partition of Land.
§ 1. That where land is held under deed or will vesting a life
estate in two or more persons or in trust for their benefit, with
remainder as to the share of each to his or her children or
descendants, it shall be lawful for a court of equity, on the peti
tion of one of such life tenants and his or her children or
descendants who would then be entitled to such remainder, all
persons having interests in such lands being made parties, to
partition such land so as to set apart to such life tenants and
children or descendants so much of said land to which they shall
be entitled in severalty ; and to that alone shall attach the title
or interest of after-born children or descendants in whom, by the
terms of said deed or will, such remainder would vest.
§ 2. Where part of the land so held shall be situated in this
State and part in another State, the court may, in making parti
tion, take into consideration the value of all of said land, and set
apart to those resident in this State land in this State equal to
their full share of all of said land, securing, by proper deeds and
orders to the non-residents, release of the interest of such resi
dents in the lands in the other State or Territory.
§ 500 [557 to 560]. When unnecessary—judgment without
—may be by order. Upon the death of a party to an action, or the
cessation of his power as a personal representative or other fiduciary—
1. If the right of action survive to or against the remaining
parties, the action may proceed, without revivor, after statement,
on the record, of such death or cessation of power.
2. Though the right of action do not survive to or against the
remaining parties, the court may render judgment, as between
them, if it can do so without prejudice to others.
3. If the right of action survive or pass to or against a person
who is not a party to the action ; or pass, otherwise than by sur
vivorship, to or against a person who is a party to the action, the
action may be revived, by an order of the court, for or against
such person. {How judgments re rived, secs. Jfil to JfiS ; provis
ions of this title apply to cases in Court of Appeals, sec. 707.)
§ 501 [561]. Order of may be made on motion or by action.
The order may be made on the motion of either party, or of his rep
resentative or successor, suggesting the death or cessation of power;
which, with the name and capacity of the representative or successor,
shall be stated in the order.
Amendment of February 23, 1882 : § 1. That section 501 of
title 11 of the Civil Code, entitled " Revivor of Actions," be, and
the same is hereby, amended by adding to said section the fol
lowing, to-wit: "Or the party seeking a revivor may file in the
action an amended pleading, stating facts necessary to authorize
the same, with a prayer therefore, upon which summons may be
issued and served with same effect as issued upon original peti
tions."
§ 502 [562]. How order served—when action stands revived.
If the order be made by consent of the parties, the action shall forth
with stand revived; and, if not made by consent, the order shall be
served, in the same manner as a summons, upon the party adverse to
the one making the motion. And, at the first term commencing not
less than ten days after such service, the party upon whom it is made
may show cause against the revivor; and, if sufficient cause be not
then shown, the action shall stand revived.
§ 503 [563]. How notice for order served—when action
Btands revived. If ten days' notice have been given to the repre
sentative or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
of the motion by the adverse party for an order to revive the action
in his name ; or to the adverse party, if the motion be by such repre
sentative or successor; and due return be made of the service of the
notice, the court may, if sufficient cause be not shown to the con
trary, make an order reviving the action in the name of such party :
whereupon, the action shall stand revived. ( Who is " successor,"
sec. 782-20.)
§ 504 [564.] How action revived against non-resident. If it
he shown by the affidavit of the person applying for an order of
revivor, that the person against whom it is asked is a non-resident of
this State ; or has been absent from it four months ; or has left it to
avoid the service of the order; or so conceals himself that it can not
be served upon him ; or that his name and place of residence are
unknown to the affiant, the court may make an order warning him
to appear on the first day of its next term, commencing not less than
sixty days after the making of the order ; and the action shall then
stand revived against such person, unless sufficient cause be shown
to the contrary.
§ 505 [566]. When action may be revived against real repre
sentatives. If a year elapse after the death of a defendant, and no
person qualify as his personal representative, the action may be
revived against his real representatives or any of them. ( Who is
" real representative," sec. 73H-1S.)
§ 506 [567]. In action for land revivor to be against real rep
resentatives. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for the
recovery of real property only, or which concerns only his rights or
.claims to such property, the action may be revived against his real
representatives or any of them, and an order therefore may be forth
with made in the manner directed in the preceding sections of this
title*
§ 507 [568]. When order can be made within six months.
An order to revive an action against the personal representative of a
•defendant, or against him and the real representatives of the defend
ant, can not be made, unless by consent, within !<ix months after the
qualification of the personal representative.
§ 508 [569]. When order can be made after expiration of one
year. An order to revive an action against the representative or
successor of a defendant shall not be made, without his consent,
unless within one year after the time when it could have been first
made.
§ 509 [570]. Time in which action may be revived in name of
plaintifff's successor. An order to revive an action in the name of
the representative or successor of a plaintifff may be made forthwith,
but shall not be made without the consent of the defendant after the
expiration of one year from the time the order might have been first
made; except that, if the defendant shall also have died, or his powers
have ceased, in the meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may
be made in the period limited in the last section.
§ 510 [571]. If time of revivor past, action to be stricken from
docket. If it appear to the court, by affidavit, that either party to
an action has been dead, or, if he sue or be sued as a personal repre
sentative, that his powers have ceased, for a period so long that the
action can not be revived in the name of his representative or suc
cessor without the consent of both parties, it shall order the action to
be stricken from the docket.
§ 511 [572]. Defendant may have it stricken from docket
upon failure to revive. At any term of the court succeeding the
death of the plaintifff, whilst the action remains on the docket, the
defendant, having given to the plaintifff's proper representatives, in
"whose names the action might be revived, ten days' notice of the ap
plication therefore, may have an order to strike the action from the
,docket, and for costs against the estate of the plaintifff, unless the
action be forthwith revived.
§ 512 [573]. If action stands revived, trial not postponed.
When, by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action stands
revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by reason of the re
vivor. (Form of execution to he levied of assets in hands of adminis
trator 416.)
§ 513 [574]. May be reversed or modified by Court of Ap
peals, or court rendering. A judgment rendered in the circuit
court may be reversed, vacated, or modified, either by it or by the
Court of Appeals. {Judgment defined, sec. 368.)
% 514 [575]. By Court of Appeals for errors appearing in
record. A judgment may be reversed or modified by the Court of
Appeals for errors appearing in the record. (Errors not regarded un
less prejudicial, sec. 338; how errors shown in record, secs. 333 to
340.)
§ 515 [576]. Proceedings to be by appeal. The proceedings to
obtain such reversal or modification shall be by appeal prosecuted as
prescribed by law.
§ 516 [577]. Misprision not ground for reversal until acted on
in circuit court. A misprision of the clerk shall not be a ground
for an appeal, until the same shall have been presented and acted
upon in the circuit court. (Sec also, sec. 763.)
% 517 [578]. Misprision defined. It shall be deemed a clerical
misprision —
1: To render judgment before the action stood for trial pur
suant to the provisions of this Code.
2. To render judgment against an infant—excepting married
women—or persons of unsound mind, until a defense or report
is filed pursuant to the provisions of section 38 [36], sub-section
3. ( When actions stand for trial, secs. 36S, S64.)
§ 518 [579]. Causes for which court may modify or vacate its
judgment after term. The court in which a judgment has been
rendered shall have power, after the expiration of the term, to vacate
or modify it—
1. By granting a new trial for the cause and in the manner
prescribed in section 344., :
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings againBt defendants
constructively summoned, as is prescribed in chapter 1 of title 10.
3. For misprisions of the clerk.. , , . .
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the
judgment.
5. For erroneous proceedings against a person under disability,
except coverture, if the condition of such defendant do not
appear in the record, nor the error in the proceedings.
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in
the action.
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the
party from appearing or defending.
8. For errors in a judgment, shown by an infant within twelve
months after arriving at full age, as is prescribed in section 391.
( When ordinary judgment may be modified in equity, sec. 17.)
§ 519 [580]. Misprision to be corrected by motion — when
motion to be made. The proceedings to correct misprisions of the
clerk shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party
or his attorney in the action. The motion to vacate a judgment
because of its rendition before the action regularly stood for trial can
not be made after the expiration of the first three days of the suc
ceeding term.
§ 520 [581]. When proceedings to vacate must be by petition.
The proceedings to vacate or modify the judgment on the grounds
mentioned in sub-sections 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, of section 518, shall be by
petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the judgment, the grounds
to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action if the party
applying was defendant. On the petition the proceedings shall be the
same as those in the action in which the judgment was rendered.
§ 521 [582]. Conditions on which judgment may be vacated.
A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it be
adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in which the
judgment is rendered ; or, if the plaintifff' seek its vacation, that there
is a valid cause of action ; and, if a judgment be modified, all liens
and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified
judgment.
§ 522 [583]. Grounds relied on to vacate to be first tried.
The court may decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a judg
ment before deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause of
action.
§ 523 [584]. When party seeking to vacate may have injunc
tion. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment may obtain
an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part thereof,
upon its being rendered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the
record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order
vacated or modified. (What court may grant injunction, sec. 285.)
§ 524 [585]. How premature judgment may be suspended. If
the judgment was rendered before the action stood for trial, the sus
pension may be granted as provided in the last section, although no
valid defense to the action is shown ; and the court shall make such
orders concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment, or on
any replevy or forthcoming bond taken under it, as shall give to the
defendant the same rights of delay that he would have had if the
judgment had been rendered at the proper time.
g 525 [586]. Party holding affirmative must prove it. The
party holding the affirmative of an issue must produce the evidence
to prove it. (And introduce evidence first, sec. 317-3.)
§ 526 [587]. On whom the burthen of proof lies. The burthen
of proof in the whole action lies on the party who would be defeated
if no evidence were given on either side.
§ 527 [588]. When writing may be read against party as
genuine. A writing purporting to have been made by a party, if
referred to in and riled with a pleading of his adversary, may be read
as genuine against him, unless he deny its genuineness by affidavit
before the trial is begun. (Party may file any writing as exhibit, sec.
128 ; what " writing " includes, sec. 732-6 ; how made part of the record,
sec. 128.)
§ 528 [589]. Subpoena denned — court may direct issual of.
The process by which the attendance of a witness is required is a
subpoena. It is a writ directed to the sheriff, requiring him to sum
mon the person named therein to attend at a particular time and
place, to testify as a witness. It may, when the court or the judge
thereof so directs, require the witness to bring with him any book,
writing, or other thing, under his control, which he is bound by law
to produce in evidence. (Form of, page 4*21; when may issue on hol
iday, sec. 665.)
§ 529 [590]. Clerk to issue on request of either party. If the
attendance of the witness be required before the court, or on the trial
of an issue ordered by it, the subpoena shall be issued by the clerk on
the request of either party.
§ 530. Commissioner of court may issue. If the attendance of
a witness be required before a commissioner of the court, the sub
pcena shall be issued by the commissioner.
§ 531 [591]. Officer authorized to take depositions may issue.
If the attendance of the witness be required for the purpose of giv
ing his deposition, the subpoena shall be issued by an officer author
ized to take the deposition.
§ 532 [592]. How subpoena served. The service of a subpoena
is made by showing the original and delivering a copy or a ticket
containing the substance thereof to the witness.
§ 533 [593]. By whom served. A subpoena may be served by
any officer by whom a summons might be served, and his return
thereon shall be proof of tbe service. It may also be served by any
person of full age—whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be proof
of tbe service ; or the witness may acknowledge service in writing
on the subpoena. ( What officers may serve, sec. 667 ; may be served on
holiday, sec. 665.)
§ 534 [594]. When witness not bound to attend court or give
deposition. Subject to the provisions of section 556, a witness shall
not be compelled to attend for examination upon the trial of a civil
action, if he resides more than twenty miles from the place where the
court sits in which the action is pending; nor to attend to give his
deposition out of the county in which he resides, or in which the
subpoena is served on him.
§ 535 [595]. Witness may be punished for disobedience of
subpoena. Disobedience of a subpoena ; intentional evasion of a
service of it, by concealment, or otherwise; concealment or removal
of a minor to prevent service of a subpoena upon him, or preventing
his attendance as a witness, by a person having control of him ; or a
refusal to be sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an nffi-davit
or deposition when lawfully ordered, may be punished as a con
tempt of the court or officer by whom the attendance or testimony of
the witness is required.
§ 536 [596]. When witness liable for costs and damages.
"When a witness is brought before a court for contempt by disobedi
ence of a subpoena, and it is shown that the legal fees for travel and
one day's attendance were paid or tendered to him when the sub
poena was served, and that he failed to attend without reasonable
cause, the court may summarily order him to pay the party, on whose
behalf he was summoned, the costs occasioned to him by the disobe
dience of the subpoena, not exceeding twenty dollars ; and he shall
also be liable for any damages occasioned by the failure to attend.
{Witness fecs, sec Gen. Stat. chap. 41, art. 16.)
§ 537 [597]. Warrant of arrest may be issued to compel
attendance of. If a witness fail to attend in obedience to a subpoena,
the court or officer before whom his attendance was required may
issue a warrant for arresting and bringing him before the court or
officer, at a time and place to be fixed in the warrant, to give his tes
timony, and answer for the contempt. If the warrant be not for
immediately bringing the witness before the court or officer, a sum
shall be fixed in which the witness may give bond, with surety, for
his appearance; and, if no sum be fixed by the court or officer, it
shall be one hundred dollars. (Form of warrant, page
§ 538 [598, 599]. What punishment imposed on witness for
contempt. The punishment for the contempt mentioned in section
535 shall be by fine, not exceeding thirty dollars, and imprisonment,
not exceeding twenty-four hours; but an officer imposing such pun
ishment shall promptly report his action, and the reasons therefore, to
the court in which the action is pending; and the court may vacate
or modify the order of the officer, and shall render judgment for the
fine imposed by the officer, or so much thereof as is approved by the
court. If a witness refuse to testify, or to be sworn, or to give a
deposition, he shall be imprisoned so long as he refuses; and, if the
court finally adjourn before he submits, he shall remain in prison
until the next term, or until he testifies before an officer who is
authorized to take his testimony. The final disposition of the case
in which he so refuses shall discharge him from imprisonment.
§ 539 [600]. What warrant of commitment must specify.
Every warrant of commitment to prison issued by a court or officer,
pursuant to this chapter, must specify particularly the cause of the
commitment ; and, if it be for refusing to answer a question, such
question must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest
or commit a witness must be directed to the sheriff of the county
where he may be, and be executed in the same manner as process
from the court.
§ 540 [601]. When prisoner may be produced for oral exami
nation, A person confined in any jail, work-house, or house of
correction, in this State, may, by order of court, be required to be
produced for oral examination in the county where he is confined;
but in all other cases his testimony must be taken by deposition.
§ 541 [602]. To remain in control of officer while giving dep
osition. While his deposition is being taken, he shall remain under
the control of the officer having him in custody, who shall afford
reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition.
§ 542 [603]. When witness can not be sued out of county of
residence. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a county in
which he does not reside, by being served with a summons in such
county while going, returning, or attending, in obedience to a sub
poena.
§ 543 [604]. How testimony may be taken. The testimony of
witnesses may be taken by affidavit, deposition, or oral examination.
§ 544 [605]. Affidavit defined. An affidavit is a written declara
tion, under oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
§ 545 [606]. Deposition defined. A deposition is a written dec
laration, under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the
purpose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or, upon writ
ten interrogatories.
§ 546 [607]. Oral examination defined. An oral examination
is an examination in the presence of the tribunal which is to decide
the fact or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the tribunal
from the lips of the witness.
§ 547 [608]. For what purposes affidavit may be used. An
affidavit may be read to verify a pleading; to prove the service of a
summons, notice, or other process, in an action ; to obtain a provis
ional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or
a warning order ; or, upon a motion ; and in any other case permitted
by law.
§ 548 [609]. Person on whose affidavit provisional remedy
granted may be examined. If a provisional remedy be granted
upon an affidavit, and a motion be made to discharge or vacate it, the
party making the motion may, by written notice to the adverse party,
or by order or rule of court, require the production of the affiant
for cross-examination ; whereupon, the party notified shall produce
the affiant, within ten days, before an officer authorized to take depo
sitions, at a time and place of which he shall give the adverse party
three days' notice. If the affiant be not produced, his affidavit shall
be suppressed ; and, if produced, he may be examined by either party.
§ 549 [610]. Before whom affidavit may be made. An affi
davit may be made—
1. In this State, before a judge of a court, or a justice of
the peace, notary public, examiner, clerk of a court, or mastercommissioner.
2. Out of this State, before any officer or person who may be
authorized, pursuant to section 564, to take depositions.
§ 550 [611]. 1. By whom affidavit may be made—when by
agent or attorney. Any affidavit which this Code requires or au
thorizes a party to make may, unless otherwise expressed, be made
by his agent or attorney, if he be absent from the county.
2. If an action be brought by two or more plaintifffs, an affi
davit for a warning order must be made by all of them who may
be in the county.
Amendment of April 1J, 1880: § 1. That sub-section 2 of
section 550 be amended so as to read as follows: "If an action
be brought by two or more plaintifffs, an affidavit for a warning
order may be made by any one of them who may be in the county :
Provided, That the affidavit shall state the affiant's belief that the
other plaintifffs who reside in the county are also ignorant of such
of the facts as are unknown to the affiant."
3. Every other affidavit in behalf of two or more parties
united in interest may, unless otherwise expressed, be made by
one of them, subject, with reference to pleadings, to sub-section
4 of section 117.
4. No affidavit in behalf of two or more parties united in
interest shall, unless otherwise expressed, be made by an agent or
attorney, unless all of them be absent from the county.
5. The affidavit of an agent or attorney must state the absence
from the county of the party or parties for whom it is made, and
the fact that the affiant is agent or attorney.
§ 551 [612]. How affidavit must be made. Every affidavit shall
be subscribed by the affiant; and the certificate of the officer or
person before whom it is made shall be written separately, following;
the signature of the affiant, and shall be proof of the time and
manner of the affidavit being made.
ARTICLE II.
DEPOSITIONS.
Subdivision. 1. When to be used.
2. Officer* authorized to take.
3. Manner of taking.
4. Exceptions to.
5. Depositum* to be used in other States.
SUBDIVISION I.
When to be Used.
? 552. When depositions may, and must, be used.
? 563. Can not be retaken without leave, except in rebuttal.
? 554. Whose may be read on trial of any action.
? 555. Witness whose deposition might be used not bound to attend court.
\ 556. Court may compel personal attendance of witness.
\ 557. When parties may commence taking.
\ 558. Party may take deposition of any witness de bene esse.
§ 552 [613]. 1. When depositions may, and must, be used.
Depositions or certified copies thereof, if they be lost, may be used
upon the trial of any issue of fact in an equitable action, unless such
issue be transferred pursuant to title 2 ; and upon the trial of any
issue in an ordinary action, if such issue be transferred pursuant to
said title ; and upon any motion, or upon a reference to a commis
sioner of any question, relating to such issue.
2. Subject to the provisions of section 708, upon any issue of
fact which arises upon the pleadings in an equitable action, unless
such issue be transferred pursuant to title 2, or upon the plead
ings in an ordinary action, if such issue be transferred pursuant
to said title, proof must be made by depositions or exhibits :
Provided, That the genuineness of exhibits may be proved orally
in court as heretofore allowed by law, and that the court may
require oral testimony upon a trial by jury. (Interrogatories may
be read as deposition, secs. 140, 141, 1%6 ; when exhibits constitute
part oj record, sec. 128.)
§ 553. Can not be retaken without leave, except in rebuttal.
The deposition of a witness shall not be retaken without leave of the
court.
Amendment of May 15, 1886: § 1. That section 553 of the
Civil Code of Practice be amended so as to read as follows :
" [Section 553.] The deposition of a witness shall not be retaken
without leave of the court, except in rebuttal."
§ 554 [614]. Whose may be read on trial of anv action. A
deposition may be read upon the trial of an issue in any action, if, at
the time of the trial, the witnesses reside twenty miles or more from
the place where the court sits in which the action is pending; or be
absent from this Stitte ; or be its Governor, Secretary, Register, Aud
itor, or Treasurer; or a judge or clerk of a court; or a postmaster
or a president, cashier, teller, or clerk, of a bank; or a practicing
physician, surgeon, or lawyer ; or a keeper, officer, or guard, of the
penitentiary ; or be dead ; or be of unsound mind, having been of
sound mind when his deposition was taken ; or be prevented from
attending the trial by infirmity or imprisonment ; or be in the mili
tary service of the United States or of this State.
§ 555 [615]. Witness whose deposition might be used not
bound to attend court. A witness whose deposition might be used
shall not be compelled to attend in court for oral examination, unless
he failed, when duly summoned, to give his deposition.
% 556 [616]. Court may compel personal attendance of wit
ness. Upon the affidavit of a party, and the written statement of
his attorney, that the testimony of a witness is important, and that
the just and proper effect of his testimony can not in a reasonable
degree be obtained without an oral examination in court, the court
may, at its discretion, order the personal attendance of the witness to
be coerced, although such witness may otherwise be exempt from
personal attendance by the provisions of this Code.
$ 557 [617]. When parties may commence taking. The plain
tiff may commence taking depositions immediately after the service
of the summons ; and the defendant, immediately after filing his
iinswer.
§ 558 [618]. Party may take deposition of any witness de
bene esse. A party may take the deposition of any witness de bene
esse, and it may be used under the circumstances prescribed in sec
tion 554.
SUBDIVISION II.
Officers A uthorized to take Depositions.
3 559. Circuit judges to appoint examiners in each county.
{ 560. Where examiners to keep office.
% 561. May administer oaths.
2 562. Who may take depositions in this State.
2 563. Officer not bound to leave office to take.
2 564. Who may take depositions out of this State.
§ 559 [619]. Circuit judges to appoint examiners in each
county. The circuit judges shali appoint two or more examiners in
each county of their respective districts, who, before acting, shall
be sworn in open court to discharge faithfully and impartially the
duties of their office ; and who shall hold their offices at the pleasure
of the court.
*5 560 [620]. Where examiners to keep office. An examiner's
office shall be kept in or near the county seat ; and, if there be more
than one, the others at such place as the court may direct.
§ 561 [622]. May administer oaths. Examiners may adminis
ter oaths and give certificates thereof in all cases in which justices of
the peace may do so.
§ 562 [623 to 626]. Who may take depositions in this State.
Depositions taken in this State, to be used in its courts, shall be
token before an examiner, a judge or clerk of a court, a justice of
the peace, or a notary public ; and the laws relating to examiners
shall apply to each of these officers.
§ 563 [627]. Officer not bound to leave office to take. It shall
not be the duty of an officer to go out of his office to take deposi
tions, hut he may take them at any place in the county for which he
is appointed.
§ 564 [628]. Who may take depositions out of this State.
Depositions may be taken, out of this State, before a commissioner
appointed by the Governor thereof; or [before] any other person
empowered by a commission directed to him by consent of the parties
or by order of the court; or before a judge of a court, a justice of the
peace, mayor of a city, or notary public.
§ 565 [629]. May be taken upon notice or interrogatories.
Deposition* shall be taken upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party or upon interrogatories.
§ 566 [630]. Requisites of notice. The notice must be in
writing, signed by the party giving it, or his attorney ; must be
addressed to the party on whom it is to be served, and specify the
time and place of taking the deposition; and the action or proceeding
in which it is to be used ; and must also state the name of the pro
posed witness, if the deposition be taken out of the county where the
court sits, unless it be taken to prove a law, custom, or usage. (Form
of notice, page Jffi8; how and by whom served, secs. 625, 624; °" whom
to be served, secs. 626 to 638.)
5 567 [632]. What deemed reasonable notice. A notice shall
be deemed reasonable that allows one day for each thirty miles which
the party will have to travel, and one day for preparation, if the dis
tance be less than one hundred miles, and two days, if it be more. If
the distance exceed fifty miles, and. the usual mode of travel, for the
whole or a part of the distance, be by steamboat, railroad cars, or other
public conveyance, the time ordinarily required by such mode of
travel, with the days given for preparation, shall be deemed sufficient
in the notice. If the distance be less than thirty miles, a notice which
gives to the party a reasonable opportunity to be present shall be
sufficient.
§ 568 [633]. When taking may be adjourned to another time
and place. If a notice be given to take a deposition, and the
attendance of the witness can not be procured at the place specified
in the notice, owing to his infirmity or imprisonment, the taking of
the deposition may be adjourned to the next day, and to some other
convenient place; and a written notice of the adjournment shall be
conspicuously posted, at the place specified in the notice, before noon
of the day on which the deposition was to have been taken.
§ 569 [634]. Other causes for which adjournment may be
made. If a notice be given to take a deposition, but from any cause
not mentioned in the last section the deposition can not be taken at
the place specified in the notice, an adjournment to the nearest conve
nient place shall be made; and a written notice of the adjournment
shall be conspicuously posted, at the place specified in the notice, for
one hour before the deposition is commenced at the place to which
the adjournment is made.
§ 570 [635]. 1. Causes for adjourning pursuant to sections
568, 569 to be proved. A deposition taken pursuant to section
568 shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the party taking it or of
his attorney, stating the cause of the non-attendance of the witness,
and by the officer's certificate that notice of the adjournment was
posted as is required by said section.
2. A deposition taken pursuant to section 569 shall be accom
panied by the officer's certificate stating the cause of the adjourn
ment and that notice thereof was posted as is required by said
section.
§ 571 [636]. When party may require deposition taken on
interrogatories. It' more than three days' notice to take a deposi
tion be required by section 567, the party to whom the notice is given
may, by notice to the adverse party or his attorney, served on the day
when the first notice is given, or on the following day, require the
deposition to be taken upon interrogatories.
§ 572 [687]. May be taken on interrogatories by consent.
Depositions may be taken upon interrogatories with the consent of
parties who are free from disability ; or the consent of the guardian,
curator, committee, or husband, of a party who is under disability.
§ 573. Court may require them taken on interrogatories.
The court, on motion of either party, may permit or require deposi
tions to be taken upon interrogatories—
1. If the ascertainment of a fact or the stating of an account
be referred to a commissioner.
2. If any of the parties against whom a deposition is to be
read be defendants who may have been constructively summoned
and have not appeared ; or be under any disability other than
coverture, or infancy and coverture combined.
3. If the parties against whom the deposition is to be read be
numerous, and have not appointed an agent or attorney residing
in this State known to the party taking the deposition.
§ 574. When must be taken on interrogatories. If all the
parties against whom a deposition is to be read have been construct
ively summoned and have not appeared, or be defendants and under
disability, other than coverture or infancy and coverture combined,
the deposition must be taken upon interrogatories.
Amendment of May 18, 1886: That section 574 of chapter 3,
title 13, of the Civil Code of Practice, be amended as follows :
At the end of the word "interrogatories" there shall be added
to said section " except in actions and proceedings for divorce
and alimony and the custody of children when involved in such
a suit."
§ 575 [638]. 1. Filing interrogatories —caption of—notice of
filing—duty of clerk. In the cases mentioned in sections 571, 573.
and 574, the interrogatories shall be filed in the clerk's office; the
caption thereof shall state the name and place of residence of the wit
ness ; notice of the tiling thereof shall be given pursuant to sections
624 to 633, both inclusive, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk ;
and, until a commission to take the deposition be issued, the party
notified may file cross-interrogatories.
II. If no cross-interrogatories be filed, the clerk shall file the
following :
1. What is your age, occupation, and place of residence ?
2. Are all of your statements in the foregoing answers made
from your personal knowledge? If not, which of them are made
from information or belief, and what is the source of your
information, or the foundation of your belief?
3. Have you any interest in this action direct or indirect ? If
any, what is it?
4. Have you stated all you know concerning this action ? If
not, state what you have omitted.
§ 576 [639]. When commission to issue. No commission shall
issue until ten days shall have elapsed after the giving of notice pur
suant to section 575, unless cross-interrogatories be sooner filed.
§ 577 [640]. To whom commission directed—interrogatories
to be annexed to. After the interrogatories have remained the due
length of time in the clerk's office, one or more commissions, at the
request of the party, shall be issued by the clerk, with copies of the
interrogatories and cross-interrogatories annexed, authorizing the
person to whom the commission is directed to examine witnesses on
them ; and the commission may be directed generally " to any officer
authorized to take depositions in or out of this State." (Form of com
mission, paf/e Jfl;!. ')
§ 578 [641]. Officer authorized to take may issue subpoena.
""Jpon filing with an officer authorized to take depositions a notice duly
served, or a commission with interrogatories to take a deposition, it
shall be the duty of the officer to issue his subpoena requiring the
witness, whose deposition is desired, to appear, at a time and place to
be named in the subpoena, for examination. (Form of suhpwna , parfe
officer may hare, witness arrested and punished for contempt, secs.
535 to 540.)
§ 579 [642]. Powers and duties of officer. The officer before
whom the deposition is taken shall decide, summarily, all objections to
questions ; or, if in doubt, shall permit the questions to be answered,
noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power to pre
vent insulting questions being put to a witness, and to stop a course
of interrogation pursued unreasonably long and for mere vexation
and delay.
§ 580 [643]. Statements of witness to be written. The state
ments of the witness shall be written by him in the presence of the
officer taking the deposition, or by the officer in the presence of the
witness.
§ 581 [644]. When neither party nor attorney can be present
at taking. If a deposition be taken upon interrogatories, neither
party nor his agent or attorney shall be present at the examination
of the witness.
§ 582 [645]. What the officer's certificate shall state. The
officer's certificate shall state when and where the deposition was
taken ; that the witness was duly sworn before giving it, and that it
was written and subscribed by him in the officer's presence, or was
written by the officer in the presence of the witness and read to and
subscribed by the witness in presence of the officer; and shall also
state whether or not either of the parties, and, if either, which of
them, was present in person or by agent or attorney during exami
nation of the witness. (Form of caption and certificate, page £22.)
§ 583 [646]. How depositions transmitted to clerk. Except
ing depositions taken by a guardian ad litem and by persons suing in
forma pauperis—which shall be delivered or sent without prepay
ment of fees or postage—the officer, upon payment of his fees and
necessary postage, shall deliver the depositions to the clerk of the
court in which, or the justice before whom, the action is pending; or
shall send them by mad or by private conveyance, in a sealed envel
ope, directed to such clerk or justice, with an indorsement showing
the style of the action and that it contains depositions ; but, if sent by
private conveyance, the person by whom they are sent must make
oath before the clerk or justice to whom they are delivered that they
have not been opened by him or any person, in their transit. The
clerk or justice shall indorse on the depositions the time and mode
of their reception, and the affidavit, if any, of the person delivering
them.
§ 584 [648]. Fees of officers. For issuing asubposnaor warrant
of arrest, and for summoning or arresting a witness, the same fees
shall be paid as are allowed to clerks and sheriffs for similar services.
SUBDIVISION IV.
Exceptions to Depositions.
'" 585. Deposition can not be read unless filed before trial,
i? 586. How exceptions to, taken.
# 587. When to be taken and made.
\ 588. Court to pass on before trial —withdrawal of depositions to correct certificate.
\ 580. Error of court waived unless excepted to.
\ 590. Swearing of jury commencement of trial.
§ 585 [649]. Deposition can not be read unless filed before
trial. No deposition shall be read on a trial, unless, before the com
mencement thereof, it be filed with the papers of the case.
§ 586 [650]. How exceptions to, taken. Exceptions to deposi
tions shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, filed
with the papers of the case, and noted on the record.
§ 587 [651]. 1. When to be taken and made. No exception,
other than to the competency of the witness, or to the relevancy or
competency of the testimony, shall be regarded, unless it be filed and
noted on the record before the commencement of the trial and before
or during the first term of the court after the filing of the deposition.
2. Exceptions to the competency of the witness, or to the com
petency or relevancy of the testimony, may be made before or
during the trial.
§ 588 [652]. Court to pass on before trial—withdrawal of
depositions to correct certificate. The court, on the motion of
either party, shall decide upon exceptions, other than those for
incompetency or irrelevancy, before the commencement of the trial ;
and, if the examining officer's certificate be defective, whether excep
tions have been sustained or filed or not—
1. The party for whom the deposition was taken, upon tender
ing to the clerk or justice, having custody of the deposition,
money enough, if any be necessary, to pay postage upon it to
and from the examining officer, may require the clerk or justice
to deliver the deposition, or mail it, under seal, with half of the
sum of money so tendered, to the examining officer.
2. The clerk or justice shall indorse upon the deposition the
time of delivering or mailing it, and the examining officer shall
indorse upon it the time and mode of its reception.
3. The examining officer shall amend his certificate, if he can
-do so truthfully ; and, whether he amend it or not, he shall return
the deposition to the officer who sent it to him, and such officer
shall act with reference to it as is required by section 583.
§ 589 [653]. Error of court waived unless excepted to. Errors
of the court, in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions, are
waived unless excepted to.
§ 590 [654]. Swearing of jury commencement of trial. If the
trial be by jury, the swearing of the jury shall be deemed the com
mencement thereof.
SUBDIVISION V.
Depositions to be Used in other States.
? 591. Provisions concerning.
§ 591 [655]. Provisions concerning. A party desiring to take
depositions in this State, to be used in judicial proceedings in other
States, may produce to a judge of the county court of the county
where the witnesses reside a commission authorizing the taking of
such depositions or a notice duly served ; whereupon, it shall be the
duty of the judge to issue a oubpeena requiring the witnesses to
attend at a specified time and place for examination ; and, in case of
their failure to attend or refusal to be sworn or to testify, they may
be punished as is provided in section 538.
Amendment of March 26, 1884 • § !• That section 591 of chap
ter 3, title 13, of the Civil Code of Practice be, and the same is
hereby, amended by adding thereto the following: By similar
proceedings before an examiner, justice of the peace, or a notary
public, depositions may be taken by such officers in this State, to
be used in judicial proceedings in other States ; and the officer
so taking such depositions shall have the same powers in taking
the same as judges of the county courts now have ; but in cases
of contempt and the infliction of punishment for the same, or a
failure upon the part of the officer to punish for contempt, then
it shall be the duty of the officer, upon the motion of the witness
or either party to the suit, to promptly, in writing, report his
actions and the reasons therefore to the judge of the county court
for the county in which the deposition is being taken ; and the
court may change, modify, or vacate the order of the officer, and
shall render judgment for the fine imposed by the officer or by
himself, and he shall, in accordance with the judgment rendered,
certify to the officer what further steps shall be taken.
§ 592 [656]. Order in which evidence introduced on triaL
The party who begins the case must, ordinarily, exhaust his evidence
before the other begins. But the order of proof shall be regulated
by the court, so as to expedite the trial, and enable the tribunal to
obtain a clear view of the whole evidence. (Sec further concerning
or,hr of proof, sec. 317.)
§ 593 [657]. Court to control mode of interrogation. The
court shall exercise a reasonable control over the mode of interroga
tion, so as to make it rapid, distinct, as little annoying to the wit
ness, and as effective for the extraction of the truth, as may be ; but,
subject to this control, the parties may put such legal and pertinent
questions as they may see fit. The court, however, may stop the
production of further evidence on a particular point, if the evidence
upon it be already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.
§ 594 [658]. Direct and cross-examination. The examination
of a witness by the party producing him is the direct examination ; his
examination, upon the same matter, by the adverse party is the crossexamination. The direct examination must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 595 [659]. Leading questions, when permitted. A question
that suggests to the witness the answer which the examining party
desires is a leading question. On the direct examination, leading;
questions are not allowed, except under special circumstances makingit
appear that the interests of justice require it. On cross-examina
tion, the adverse party may put leading questions ; but, if he exam
ine the witness on new matters, such examination is subject to the
same rules as the direct examination.
§ 596 [660]. Party can not impeach but may contradict his
witness. The party producing a witness is not allowed to impeach
his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it was indispensable
that the party should produce him ; but he may contradict him by
other evidence, and by showing that he has made statements different
from bis present testimony.
§ 597 [661]. How witness may be impeached by adverse
party. A witness may be impeached by the party against whom he
is produced, by contradictory evidence, by showing that he has made
statements different from his present testimony, or by evidence that
his general reputation for untruthfulness or immorality renders him
unworthy of belief; but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts,
except that it may be shown by the examination of a witness, or
record of a judgment. that he has been convicted of felony.
§ 598 [662]. How witness may be contradicted by evidence
of different statements. Before other evidence can be offered of
the witness having made at another time a different statement, he
must be inquired of concerning it, with the circumstances of time,
place, and persons present, as correctly as the examining party can
present them ; and, if it be in writing, it must be shown to the wit
ness, with opportunity to explain it.
§ 599 [663]. When evidence of good character admissible.
Evidence of the good character of a witness is inadmissible, until his
general reputation has been impeached.
§ 600 [664]. Re-examination of witnessi A witness once ex
amined can not be re-examined as to the same matter without
leave of the court. But he may be re-examined as to any new mat
ter upon which he has been examined by the adverse party. After
the examination on both sides is concluded, the witness can not be
recalled without leave of the court.
§ 601 [665]. Separation of witnesses. If either party require
it, the judge may exclude from the court-room any witness of the
adverse party not at the time under examination, so that he may not
hear the testimony of the other witnesses.
Amendment of May 7, 1886 : § 1. That there be added to sec
tion 601 of the Civil Code of Practice the following : But this
rule shall not apply to the parties to the action or the officers of
the court.
§ 602 [666]. Person present may be compelled to testify. A
person present before a court or before a judicial officer maybe com
pelled to testify in the same manner as if he were served with a
subpoena.
§ 603 [667]. Judge or juror may be examined. The judge or
a juror may be called as a witness; but, in such a case, it is in the
discretion of the court to suspend the trial and order it to take place
before another judge or jury; and, if a party know, when the jury
are sworn, that a juror is to be called by him as a witness, he shall
then disclose it, and the juror shall be excluded from the jury.
§ 604 [668]. Proof of writing by witness —evidence as to dis
puted handwriting. A writing shown to a witness may be inspected
by the adverse party, and, if proved by the witness, it must be read to
the jury before his testimony is closed ; otherwise, it can not be read,
unless the witness be recalled.
Act of May 17, 1886: Regulating the admission of evidence
of disputed handwritings by comparison : S 1. That in any
action, prosecution or proceeding, civil or criminal, which is
now pending or may be commenced hereafter, upon a dispute as
to the genuineness of the handwriting of a person, other hand
writings of such person, though not in the case for any othei
purpose, may be introduced for the purpose of comparison by
witnesses with the writing in dispute ; and such writings, and the
testimony of witnesses respecting them, may be submitted to the
court or jury as evidence concerning the genuineness of the
writing in dispute : Provided, That—
1. The genuinenees of such writings shall be proved, to the
satisfaction of the judge, by other than opinion evidence.
2. It must be proved, to the satisfaction of the judge, that
they were written before any controversy arose as to the genu
ineness of the writing in dispute, and that no fraud was practiced
in their selection.
3. A party proposing to introduce such writings must give
reasonable notice of his intention to the opposite party or his
attorney, with reasonable opportunity to examine them before
commencement of the trial.
4. The judge may limit the number of such writings.
5. An error of the judge shall be subject to revision and cor
rection in the same manner as if the error had been committed
by the court.
PART II.
Competenri/ of Witnesses.
? 605. Competency of witnesses generally.
\ tiOti. Persons who are incompetent—exceptions to rule.
1. Husband and wife —exceptions to rule.
2. Party against infant, lunatic or dead person—exceptions to rule.
3. Party against defendant constructively summoned.
4. Party can not testify after taking testimony.
5. Attorneys and priests as to communications and confessions.
6. Party testifying against dead person, or lunatic —how confined.
7. When party may testify concerning entries in hook.
8. Prisoner can not testify —nor can party against.
9. Assignor of claim incompetent.
10. Adverse party may be compelled to testify.
11. Provisions of this section do not apply to affidavits.
$ 607. All other objections go to the credit of witnesses.
? 608. Interrogators testimony as to new matter in equitable actions.
\ 609. If new matter stated in answer to interrogatories adverse party may testify.
§ 605 [66ft]. Competency of witnesses generally. Subject to
§ 605- (!.) Atheist may testify. All persons have a right to testify without
regard to their religious belief or disbelief, and an inquiry as to the religious belief
of a witness is improper. Bush v. Com., 80 Ky. 244.
the exceptions and modifications contained in section 606, every
person is competent to testify for himself or another, unless he be
found by the court incapable of understanding the facts concerning
which his testimony is offered.
§ 606 [670]. 1. Persons who are incompetent—exceptions to
rule. Neither a husband nor his wife shall testify, even after the ces
sation of their marriage, concerning any communication between
them during marriage. Nor shall either of them testify against the
other. Nor shall either of them testify for the other, except in an
action for lost baggage or its value against a common carrier, an inn
keeper, or a wrong-doer, and in such action either or both of them
may testify ; and, except in actions which might have been brought
by or against the wife, if she had been unmarried, and in such actions
either, but not both, of them may testify.
2. Subject to the provisions of sub-section 7 of this flection, no
person shall testify for himself concerning any verbal statement
of, or any transaction with, or any act done or omitted to be
done by, an infant under fourteen years of age, or by one who is of
unsound mind or dead when the testimony is offered to be given,
except for the purpose, and to the extent, of affecting one who
is living, and who, when over fourteen years of age and of sound
mind, heard such statement, or was present when such trans
action took place, or when such act was done or omitted, unless—
a. The infant or his guardian shall have testified against such
person, with reference to such statement, transaction, or act; or,
b. The person of unsound mind shall, when of sound mind,
have testified against siurh person, with reference thereto ; or,
c. The decedent, or a representative of, or some one interested
in, his estate, shall have testified against such person, with refer
ence thereto ; or,
d. An agent of the decedent or person of unsound mind, with
reference to such act or transaction, shall have testified against
such person, with reference thereto, or be living when such per
son offers to testify, with reference thereto.
3. No person shall testify for himself against a party who is
not before the court otherwise than by constructive service of a
summons.
4. No person shall testify for himself, in chief, in an ordinary
action, after introducing other testimony for himself, in chief;
nor, in an equitable action, after taking other testimony for him
self, in chief.
5. No attorney shall testify concerning a communication made
to him, in his professional character, by his client, or his advice
thereon, without the client's consent; nor shall a clergyman or
priest testify concerning any confession made to him, in his pro
fessional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs, without the consent of the person
confessing.
6. If the right of a person to testify for himself be founded
upon the fact that one who is dead or of unsound mind has
testified against him, the testimony of such person shall be con
fined to the facts or transactions to which the adverse testimony
related.
7. A person may testify for himself as to the correctness of
original entries made by him against persons who are under no
disability—other than coverture, or infancy and coverture com
bined—in an account-book, according to the usual course of
business, though the person against whom they were made may
have died or have become of unsound mind ; but no person shall
testify for himself concerning entries in a book, or the contents
or purport of any writing, under the control of himself, or of
himself and others jointly, if he refuse or fail to produce such
book or writing, and to make it subject to the order of the court
for the purposes of the action, if required to do so by the party
against whom he otters to testify.
8. No prisoner in a penitentiary of this State, or of any other
country, shall testify ; nor shall any person testify for himself
against such prisoner.
9. The assignment of a claim by a person who is incompetent
to testify for himself shall not make him competent to testify
for another.
10. A party may compel an adverse party to testify as any
other witness.
11. None of the preceding provisions of this section apply to
affidavits for provisional remedies, or to affidavits .if claimants
against the estates of deceased or insolvent persons, or affect the
competency of attesting witnesses of instruments which are
required by law to be attested. (Eridenrc ox to disputed hand
writings. Sec act, sec. 0O4.)
§ 607 [671]. All other objections go to the credit of witnesses.
All other objections to witnesses shall go to their credit alone, and he
weighed by the jury or tribunal to which their evidence is ottered.
§ 608 [672]. Interrogator's testimony as to new matter in
equitable action. In equitable actions, if a party, in answering
interrogatories, state new matters not responsive to the inquiries,
the party interrogating may, before the trial, file his written state
ment, under oath, concerning such new matters, which shall
be read as a deposition, though the party so answering may have
died or have become a prisoner or of unsound mind. (Provisions
concerning interrogatories, secs, llfi to 151.)
% 609 [673]. If new matter stated in answers to interroga
tories adverse party may testify. In ordinary actions, if a party,
in answering interrogatories, or when introduced as a witness, state
new matters not responsive to the inquiries of the adverse party, the
latter shall be allowed to testify orally concerning such new matter,
though the party so answering may have died or have become a
prisoner or of unsound mind.
PART III.
Perpetuation of Evidence.
j> 610. By whom and how perpetuated.
\ 611. Proceedings against expected adverse party.
\ 612. How and at whose costs depositions to he taken.
\ 613. Circumstances under which depositions may be read.
? 614. If trial not in court in which depositions filed, copies may be read.
\ 615. Evidence heretofore perpetuated may be read.
§ 610 [676]. By whom and how perpetuated. A person who
resides in this State and expects to be a party to an action in a court
hereof: or who, being a non-resident of this State, has an interest in
real property herein, concerning which he expects to be a party to an
action in a court hereof: and who desires to perpetuate the testimony
of witnesses, may file, in the circuit court of the county in which he
resides, or in which the property is situated, a petition in equity,
verified by Ids affidavit, stating—
1. That he expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
State, and the nature of the expected controversy.
2. The name, age, and place of residence, of the expected
adverse party, if known by the petitioner; or his ignorance
thereof, if not known by him.
3. That the evidence of witnesses —whose names and the facts,
generally, expected to be proved, shall be stated —is believed by
the petitioner to be material to him.
4. The obstacles preventing the commencement of the action
or proceeding, if he expects to commence the same.
§ 611 [677, 679]. 1. Proceedings against expected adverse
party. The expected adverse party shall be summoned and pro
ceeded against in the same manner as a defendant to an action.
2. After such expected party is brought before the court,
actually or constructively, the court may, in its discretion, make
an order for the examination of the witnesses.
§ 612 [678, 680]. 1. How and at whose coats depositions to be
taken. If the examination of the witnesses be permitted by the
court, their depositions shall be taken, certified, and delivered or sent
to the clerk of the court, and be kept by him, as depositions in
equitable actions.
2. The petitioner shall pay all costs incurred.
§ 613 [681]. Circumstances under which depositions may be
read. Upon a trial of the controversy in the petition mentioned,
between the persons therein named as expected parties or their rep
resentatives or successors, such depositions, subject to exceptions as
if they had been taken pending the action, may be read by either
party under the circumstances prescribed in section 554.
§ 614 [682]. If trial not in court in which depositions filed,
copies may be read. If the trial be not in the court in which the
deposition is filed, it and the affidavit, order, notice, and proof of
service, or certified copies thereof, may be read as evidence.
§ 615 [683]. Evidence heretofore perpetuated may be read.
Evidence which has been or may be perpetuated, agreeably to laws
heretofore in force, may be read on the trial of any action or suit
which has been or may be commenced in any court of this State,
subject to exceptions as if they had been taken pending such suit or
action.
§ 616 [684]. Non-residents and corporations —except banksmust
give. A plaintifff who is a non-resident of this State, or a
corporation other than a bank created by the laws of this State,
before commencing an action, shall file in the clerk's office a bond of
a sufficient surety, to be approved by. the clerk, for the payment of
all costs which may accrue in the action in the court in which it is
brought, or in any other to which it may be carried, either to the
defendant or to the officers of the courts. (Form of bond, page Jfib;
provisions of this chapter apply to parties in Court of Appeals, sec. 744-)
§ 617 [685]. Action to be dismissed if bond for costs not
given. An action in which a bond for costs is not given, as is
required by section 616, shall be dismissed on the motion of the
defendant at any time before judgment, unless in a reasonable time,
to be allowed by the court, after the motion is made therefore, such
bond be filed, securing all past and future costs; and the action shall
not be dismissed or abated, if a bond for costs be given in such time
as the court may allow.
§ 618 [686]. Plaintiff becoming non-resident must give bond
for. If the plaintifff in an action, after its institution, become a non
resident of this State, he shall give security for costs in the manner
and under the restrictions provided in the preceding sections of this
chapter.
§ 619 [687]. Other persons who may be required to secure
costs. A guardian, curator, committee, or next friend, suing for a
person under disability ; and every plaintifff suing as an assignee, ex
cept an indorsee of a bill of exchange or a promissorj' note placed
upon the footing of a bill of exchange, when insolvent, may be re
quired to give security for costs: and on failure to do so in a reason
able time after it is directed by the court, upon the motion of the
defendant his action shall be dismissed.
§ 620 [688]. Plaintiff may be required to give additional
security. In an action in which a bond for costs has been given, the
defendant may at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice
to the plaintifff, move the court for additional security on the part of
the plaintifff; and, if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that the
surety in the plaintifff's bond has removed from this State, or is not
sufficient for the amount thereof, it may dismiss the action, unless in
a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be
given by the plaintifff.
§ 621 [689]. When attorney liable for costs. If process be
issued in an action by the direction of an attorney for a plaintifff who
is required by the first section of this chapter to give security for
costs, but who has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as
surety for the costs in the action, until a bond is given ; and his lia
bility may be enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for
contempt, if they be not obeyed.
\ 622. Order defined.
? 623. Motion defined.
CHAPTER II.
Motions and Notices.
? 624. Notices requisites of—by whom served.
\ 625. How a notice may be served.
\ 626. When court may direct mode of serving.
\ 627. How served on person under disability.
\ 62S. How served on corporation.
\ 629. How on husband and wife.
? 630. How on person constructively summoned.
? 631. When may be served on attorney.
\ 632. On whom served to take depositions.
\ 633. Duty of officer to whom notice delivered.
§ 622 [690]. Order defined. A direction or decision of a court
or judge entered upon the order-book or made in writing, in an
action, and not final, is an order. (What orders final, secs. 266,
298, 475.)
§ 623 [691]. Motion defined. An application for an order is a
motion.
§ 624 [692]. 1. Notices requisites of—by whom served. The
notices mentioned in this Code must be in writing, must concisely
state the purport thereof, and may be served by an officer who is
authorized to serve a summons, or by any person who is over the age
of sixteen years and not a party to, nor interested in, the action.
2. The person who serves a notice must, by an indorsement
on it, state when and how it was served ; and, if a copy of it bo
not delivered to the person to whom it is directed, the indorse
ment must state the facts authorizing the manner of service
pursued.
3. If the person who serves a notice be an officer, his indorse
ment must show his official position ; if he be not an officer, he
must make an affidavit that his indorsement is true, that he is
over sixteen years of age, and that he is not a party to, nor inter
ested in, the action.
4. Such indorsement of an officer, and such indorsement and
affidavit of one who is not an officer, shall be proof of the ser
vice. (Officers who can serve summons, sec. 667.)
§ 625 [693]. How a notice may be served. A notice may be
served by delivering a copy of it to the person to whom it is directed,
or by offering to deliver it to him: or, if he can not be found at his
usual place of abode, by leaving a copy there with a person over the
age of sixteen years residing in the same family with him: or, if no
such person be there, by affixing such copy to the front door of such
place of abode ; or, if the person to whom the notice is directed can
not be found and has no known place of abode in this State, the notice
may be served by delivering a copy to his agent or attorney.
§ 626 [694]. When court may direct mode of serving. If the
person to whom a notice is directed have no known place of abode
in this State and no known attorney residing in this State; or, if the
persons to be notified be numerous, the court may direct the mode of
serving the notices, and to what persons, if any, they shall be given.
A certified copy of the order must be returned with the service of
the notice.
§ 627 [695]. How served on person under disability. A
notice to a person who is under any disability, excepting coverture,
or infancy and coverture combined, shall be served on his guardian,
guardian ad litem, curator, committee, or next friend, if he have one,
who represents him in the action.
§ 628 [696]. How served on corporations. A notice to a cor
poration may be served on its chief officer or agent, or on its attorney.
(Who is "chief officer or agent," secs. 78~-3%.)
§ 629 [697]. How on husband and wife. If hushand and wife
unite in bringing or defending an action, the service of a notice on
the husband shall be deemed a service on the wife.
§ 630 [698]. How on person constructively summoned. A
notice to a person constructively summoned and not appearing shall
be served on the attorney appointed to defend for him.
§ 631 [699]. When may be served on attorney. L"nless it be
otherwise specially provided in this Code, a notice to a party in an
action of any motion or proceeding to be made or taken therein, in
court or before a judge, may be served upon such party or his attor
ney ; but the service upon the attorney must be by delivering to him
a copy of the notice.
§ 632 [700]. On whom served to take depositions. If a party
to an action, or his [guardian,] guardian ad Won, curator, committee,
or next friend, do not reside in the county in which it is pending, a
notice to him to take depositions may be served by delivering a copy
thereof to his attorney.
§ 633 [701]. Duty of officer to whom notice delivered. An
officer to whom any notice in an action is properly delivered for ser
vice within his county shall serve and return it to the party who deliv
ered it to him. A failure to perform this duty may be punished as a
disobedience of the process of the court.
CHAPTER III.
Offer to Compromise.
\ 634. How offer made by defendant before trial —how accepted —effect of.
\ 635. Offer by defendant after answer— bow made— bow accepted —effect of.
\ 636. Making offer no ground of continuance.
§ 634 [702]. How offer made by defendant before trial—how
accepted — effect of. The defendant in an action for the recovery of money, only, may, at any time before the trial, serve
upon the plaintifff or his attorney an offer in writing to allow judg
ment to be taken against him for the sum specified therein. If the
plaintifff accept the offer, and give notice thereof to the defendant or
his attorney, within five days after the offer was served, the offer, and
an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time
limited, may be filed by the plaintifff; or the defendant may file the
acceptance, with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit; and, in
either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted upon the record,
and judgment shall be rendered accordingly, ff the notice of accept
ance be not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed
withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence nor mentioned on the
trial. If the plaintifff fail to obtain judgment for more than was
offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs from the
time of the offer.
§ 685 [703]. Offer by defendant after answer—how made—
how accepted—effect of. In an action for the recovery of
money, only, the defendant, having answered, may serve upon
the plaintifff" or his attorney an offer in writing that, if he fail in his
defense, the amount of the recovery shall be assessed at a specified
sum. If the plaintifff accept the offer and give notice thereof to the
defendant or his attorney, within five days after it was served, and
the defendant fail in his defense, the judgment shall be for the
amount so agreed upon. If the plaintifff do not accept the offer, he
shall prove the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been
made. The. offer shall not be given in evidence nor mentioned on
the trial. And, if the amount recovered by the plaintifff do not
exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his
costs incurred in the defense in respect to the question of amount, to
be taxed uadei" the direction of the court.
§ 036 [704]. Making offer no ground of continuance. The
making of any offer, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall
not be a cause for a continuance of an action or a postponement of a
trial.
§ 637 [705]. Parties may submit agreed case to court for
decision. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a
civil action may, without action, state the question and the facts upon
which it depends, and present a submission thereof to any court
which would have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought. But
it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the pro
ceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties. The
court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the case, and render judg
ment as if an action were pending.
§ 638 [706]. What constitutes record of agreed case. The
case, the submission, and the judgmeut shall constitute the record.
§ 639 [707]. Judgment in may be appealed from. The judg
ment shall be with costs, and may be enforced, and shall be subject
to reversal, in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an
action, unless otherwise provided in the submission.
CHAPTER V.
Offer to Con fess Judgment.
? 640. How offer made —effect of plaintifff's refusal to accept.
§ 640 [708]. How offer made—effect of plaintifff's refusal to
accept. After an action for the recovery of money is brought, the
defendant may offer, in court, to confess judgment for part of the
amount claimed or part of the causes involved in the action. Whereupon, it" the plaintifff, being present, refuse to accept such confession
of judgment in full of his demands ; or, having had reasonable notice
that the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time of
making it, fail to attend, and on the trial do not recover more than
was so offered to be confessed, such plaintifff shall pay all the costs
of the defendant incurred after the offer. The offer shall not be
deemed to be an admission of the cause of action or amount to which
the plaintifff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial.
CHAPTER VI .
Proceedings U/,on Executions and Distress Warrants.
? 641. When officer may require indemnifying bond.
I 642. If bond not given officer may refuse to proceed under execution.
? 61:). Claimant or purchaser must look to the bond.
# 644. How surplus proceeds of sale disposed of.
1 64."). Claimant of property may suspend sale by executing bond.
? 64(1. Property to be appraised for purpose of taking bond.
't G 4 7. To what court bond and appraisement returned.
<! 618. Party to whom bond executed may move for judgment thereon.
j> 64'.*. Upon the trial either party may object to appraisement.
\ fi50. Bond of claimant does not discharge levy —obligors max move to dis
charge bond.
} 651. Manner of proceeding upon executions from justices and quarterly courts,
ji 652. Manner of proceeding upon distress warrants.
} 653. Tenant may discharge levy of distress warrant by executing bond.
\ 654. Plaintiff in distress warrant may move for judgment on bond,
g 655. How motion for judgment tried by justice.
} 656. How tried if motion made in court.
2 657. Judgment against defendants to be for rent and damages.
? 658. Tenant may in part suspend distress warrant by executing bond.
\ 659. Jury-trial of right of property abolished.
jJ 660. Mode of proceeding if execution levied on interest in joint property.
§ 641 [709]. When officer may require indemnifying bond.
If an officer, who levies or is required to levy an execution upon personal property, doubt whether it is subject to the execution, he may
give to the plaintifff therein, or his agent or attorney, notice that an
indemnifying bond is required. Bond may, thereupon, be given by
or for the plaintifff, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the officer, to the effect that the obligors therein will indemnify
him against the damages which he may sustain in consequence of the
seizure or sale of the property ; and will pay to any claimant thereof
the damages he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale ;
and will warrant to any purchaser of the property such estate or
interest therein as is sold ; and, thereupon, the officer shall proceed
to subject the property to the execution, and, subject to the provisions
of section 651, shall return the indemnifying bond to the circuit court
of the county in which the levy is made. {Form of bond, page 417;
of execution^ page 4^5; of replevin bond, page 419; of sale bond,
page 419.)
§ 642 [710]. If bond not given, officer may refuse to proceed
under execution. If the bond mentioned in the last section be not
given, the officer may refuse to levy the execution ; or, if it have
been levied, and the bond be not given in a reasonable time after it
is required by the officer, he may restore the property to the person
from whose possession it was taken, and the levy shall stand dis
charged.
§ 643 [711]. Claimant, or purchaser, must look to the bond.
The claimant or purchaser of any property, for the seizure or sale of
which an indemnifying bond has been taken and returned by the
officer, shall be barred of any action against the officer levying on the
property, if the surety in the bond was good when it was taken.
And such claimant or purchaser may maintain an action upon the
bond and recover such damages as he may be entitled to. (Plaintiff
in execution may be made defendant in suit against officer, sec. 32.)
§ 644 [712]. How surplus proceeds of sale disposed of. If
property, for the sale of which the officer is indemnified, be sold for
more than enough to satisfy the execution under which it was taken,
the surplus shall be paid into the court to which the indemnifying
bond is directed to be returned. That court may order such dispo
sition or payment of the money to be made, temporarily or abso
lutely, as may be proper, in respect to the rights of the parties
interested.
§ 645 [713]. Claimant of property may suspend sale by exe
cuting bond. The sale of personal property upon which an execu
tion is levied shall be suspended at the instance of any person —other
than the defendant in the execution —claiming the property, who
shall execute, with one or more sureties sufficient for double its value,
a bond to the plaintifff in the execution, to the effect that, if it shall
be adjudged that the property or any part of it is subject to the exe
cution, he will pay to the plaintifff the value of the property so sub
ject, and ten per cent, thereon, not exceeding the amount due on the
execution, and ten per cent, thereon. (Form of bond, page 418; if
defective new one may be executed, sec. 68J ; sureties may be sworn ;
qualifications of, secs. 683, 684.)
§ 646 [714]. Property to be appraised for purpose of takingbond. For the purpose of taking the bond mentioned in the last
section, the officer shall select three disinterested housekeepers, and
administer to them an oath to make a fair appraisement of each arti
cle of the property —whose appraisement, in writing, shall be recited
in the bond. (Form of appraisement, page J18.)
§ 647 [715]. To what court bond and appraisement returned.
Subject to the provisions of section (351, the bond, with the appraise
ment annexed thereto, shall be returned to the circuit court of the
county in which the levy was made.
§ 648 [716]. Party to whom bond executed may move for
judgment thereon. The party to whom the bond is executed may
move the court "to which it is returned for a judgment thereon
against all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having
given to them ten days' notice of the motion. The court shall direct
a jury to be empaneled, and may cause such issues to be tried as it
may prescribe, and direct which party shall be considered plaintifff
in the issues. If the property, or any part of it, be found subject
to the execution, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintifff
therein for the value of the property so subject and ten per rent.
thereon, not exceeding the amount due 011 the execution and ten per
cent, thereon. An execution may be issued upon the judgment forth
with, 011 which the same indorsement shall be made as on the execu
tion in virtue of which the property had been seized. (Sec further as
to mode of proceeding, secs. 444 t° 4o0.)
§ 649 [717]. Upon the trial either party may object to ap
praisement. Upon the trial of the motion, either party may object
that the property was not fairly appraised ; and, thereupon, the jury
trying the facts shall hear evidence respecting, and find, the value of
the property.
§ 65ft [718]. 1. Bond of claimant does not discharge levy—
obligors may move to discharge bond. The giving of the bond
mentioned m section 645 shall not discharge the levy of the execu
tion upon the property claimed. But the officer may leave it, sub
ject to the lien of the levy, with the person in whose possession it was
found, pending the proceeding on the bond ; and may, in the mean
time, proceed with the execution against any other property of the
defendant.
2. The obligor in such bond may. however, on ten days' noticeto the plaintifff in the execution, move the court to which the bond
is returned to discharge the same and release the levy under the exe
cution. The provisions of sections 648 and 64!) shall, so far as appli
cable, govern the proceedings upon such motion.
§ 651 [719]. Manner of proceeding upon executions from jus
tices and quarterly courts. The foregoing provisions of this chap
ter shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued by judges of
quarterly courts or by justices of the peace, with these exceptions :
1. Indemnifying bonds shall be returned with the executions
under which they are taken.
2. Claimants' bonds shall be returned to any justice of the
peace of the county, and motion thereon may be made before
him,-on five days' notice. He shall cause a jury to be empaneled
to find whether the property is subject to the execution, subject
to an appeal if the value of the property exceed ten dollars.
§ 652 [720]. Manner of proceeding upon distress warrants.
The preceding provisions of this chapter shall also apply to proceed
ings upon distress warrants levied or about to be levied upon personal
property claimed by any person other than the tenant, his assignee,
or under-tenant; except that in such case the bond of the claimant
of the property, if it exceed the value of fifty dollars, shall be returned
to the circuit court of the county, and the motion thereon shall be
made in that court; and, if the value of the property do not exceed
fifty dollars, the bond shall be returned to some justice of the peace
of the county, and the motion may be made before him. Indemnifying bonds in such cases shall be returned with the warrants under
which they were taken. (Tenant may sue plaintifff in warrant to
recover property taken by officer, sec. 33; form of distress warrant,
page 419; provisions of General Statutes concerning, pages 367—-37'4-)
§ 653 [721]. Tenant may discharge levy of distress warrant by
executing bond. If an officer levy or be about to levy a distress
warrant upon any property, the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant
may execute, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the officer, a bond to the party in whose favor the warrant issued, to
the effect that he will pay to such party the amount of the rent spec
ified in the warrant, with ten per cent, thereon, if the property be of
the value of the rent so specified ; or, if it bo of less value, that he
will pay to tuch party the value thereof, and ten per cent, thereon.
For the purpose of taking this bond the officer shall cause the prop
erty to be appraised as is provided in section 646. The appraisement
shall be annexed and referred to in the bond. Upon the giving of
the bond, the levy, if one have been made, shall be discharged, and
the bond and warrant shall be returned to some justice of the peace
of the county, if the amount claimed do not exceed fifty dollars ; and,
if it exceed that sum, to the clerk's office of the circuit court of the
county. (Form of bond and appraisement, page J.18.)
§ 654 [722]. Plaintiff in distress warrant may move for judg
ment on bond. The party to whom the bond is executed may move
the justice of the peace or the court for a judgment thereon against
all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having given to
them five days' notice of the motion. The defendants may make
defense upon the ground that the distress was for rent not due in
whole or in part, or was otherwise illegal ; or, if the property was
levied upon, that it was by statute exempt from the levy ; and may
make any defense, by way of set-oti'or counterclaim, that is allowed
by the Code in actions.
§ 655 [723]. How motion for judgment tried by justice. If
the motion be made before a justice of the peace, he shall cause a
jury to find the facts, subject to an appeal if the amount exceed ten
dollars.
§ 656 [724]. How tried if motion made in court. If the motion
be made in court, it shall direct a jury to find the facts.
§ 657 [725]. Judgment against defendants to be for rent and
damages. If the judgment be against the defendants, it shall be for
the rent due and ten per cent, thereon, not exceeding the amount
secured by the bond. An execution may be issued forthwith.
§ 658 [726]. Tenant may in part suspend distress warrant by
executing bond. If the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenaut, con
tend that a part of the rent is not due, he may suspend the distress
warrant for such part, by giving bond, with good surety, for it—
upon which proceedings may be taken as is prescribed in the preced
ing sections.
$ 659 [727]. Jury trial of right of property abolished. Trials by
juries summoned by sheriffs or other officers, of the right of property
taken by them under execution or distress warrant, are abolished.
§ 660. Mode of proceeding if execution levied on interest in
joint property. If an officer levy an execution upon personal prop
erty held by the execution-debtor jointly with another person —
1. The officer shall not deprive such person, without his con
sent in writing, of the possession of the property, except for the
purpose of having it inventoried and appraised, which he shall
cause to be done pursuant to the provisions of section 646.
2. The officer shall return the inventory and appraisement, with
the execution, to the office from which it issued : and shall state
in his return the facts connected with the levy, and the claim of
the joint owner.
3. The execution-creditor shall have a lien upon the property
levied on, such as is given by law to an execution in the hands
of an officer; and, upon the aforesaid return, the credit r may
enforce said lien by an action in equity.
4. If such creditor, at the commencement of his action or
afterward, shall file an affidavit that he verily believes the
property levied upon will be removed from the county or sold or
otherwise disposed of, with intent fraudulently to defeat his lien,
the court, or the circuit judge thereof in vacation, or the presid
ing judge of the county court, may make an order directing the
officer to possess himself of the property so levied upon, unless
bond, with approved security, shall be executed to the plaintifff
in the execution, binding the obligors in said bond to have the
same forthcoming in obedience to any order or judgment of the
court in the action—which bond shall be taken by the officer and
returned by him to the court in which the action is pending.
CHAPTER VII.
Procecdings by Sureties.
\ 661. After debt matures surely may sue principal or co-surety.
\ 662. Mode of proceeding—may obtain provisional remedies.
§ 661 [728]. After debt matures surety may sue principal or
CO-SUrety. Alter the maturity of a debt or liability, an equitable
action may be brought by a surety against his principal to compel
payment of it, or by one who is jointly liable therefore with another
to compel him to pay so much of it as he may be equitably liable for
as between him and the plaintifff. (Action before debt due, secs. 237 to
c248 ; when may procecd by motion, sec. 444-)
§ 662 [730]. 1. Mode of proceeding—may obtain provisional
remedies, The creditor must be made defendant to an action
brought pursuant to section 661, but shall not be liable for costs.
2. The provisions of chapter 1, and of articles 1 and 4 of
chapter 3, of title 8 shall apply to such action, except so far
as they are modified by section 244, section 245, sub-sections 1 and
2 of section 247, and section 24N, which are also made applicable
to such action ; and except, also, that the affidavits mentioned in
section 153 and section 196, instead of stating -the sum which the
affiant believes the plaintifff ought to recover, shall state the sum
which the affiant believes the defendant ought to pay.
TITLE XV.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Chapter 1. Process.
2. Duties of clerks.
3. Duties of sheriffs.
4. Miscellaneous provisions.
CHAPTER I.
Process.
$ 663. Not to issue before petition filed.
? 664. Process may issue, ami bond be taken, on holiday.
\ 665. May be issued and executed on holiday or Suuday.
j} 666. When defendant privileged from service of process.
5 667. To what officers process may be directed.
<> 668. Court may appoint person to execute.
§ 663 [731]. Not to issue before petition filed. No summons,
nor order for a provisional remedy, shall be issued by the clerk in any
action, before the plaintifff's petition therein is filed in his office.
§ 664 [732]. Process may issue, and bond be taken, on holi
day. It shall be no objection to any process, writ, summons, affi
davit, or order for a provisional remedy that it was issued, made, or
dated on a holiday ; nor shall it be an objection to any bond given by
or for any party to an action, or taken by an officer in the course of
the same, that it was made or dated on any such day. ( What A*
"process"—" writ," sec. 7,S12-J6, 27.)
§ 665 [733, 734, 735]. May be issued and executed on holiday
or Sunday. A summons, subpoena, notice, or order for a provisional
remedy may be issued, given, or executed on a holiday or Sunday, if
the officer or person having the notice or process believe, or, if the
plaintifff or some other person make affidavit to the effect that the
affiant believes that the notice can not be given, or that the procese
can not be executed, after such holiday or Sunday.
§ 666 [736]. When defendant privileged from service of
process. Subject to the provisions of section 542, the defendant shall
have no privilege of exemption from the service of the process men-'
tioned in section 665, except from an arrest, by reason of his attend
ance at any muster, election, or order of survey, or as a witness at
any court or other place.
§ 667 [66, 737]. 1. To what officers process may be directed.
Every process in an action or proceeding shall be directed to the
sheriff of the county ; or, if he be a party, or be interested, to the
coroner; or, if he be interested, to the jailer; or, if all these officers
be interested, to any constable.
2. The summons or an order for a provisional remedy, in an
action or proceeding, may, at the request of the party in whose
behalf it is issued, be directed to any of the officers named in the
first sub-section who is not a party to nor interested in the action.
Act of March 10, 18SU: Elisor is authorized to "execute sum
mons, subpoenas, and process in provisional remedies.''
§ 668 [738]. Court may appoint person to execute. The court,
for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a particular process or
order, and he shall have the same power to execute it which a sheriff
has. His return must be verified by his affidavit. He shall be
entitled to the fees allowed to sheriffs for similar services.
§ 669 [739]. Clerk to indorse time of filing papers and return
of bonds. The clerk shall indorse, upon every paper filed in an
action, the day of filing it ; and, upon every order for a provisional
remedy, and every bond taken thereunder, the day of its return to
his office. {Deputy may act for, sec. 678.)
% 670 [740]. Return on summons to be entered—effect of. He
shall, upon the return of a summons served, enter in full upon the
docket the return of the officer executing the summons. The entry
shall be evidence of the service of the summons, if it should be lost.
§ 671 [741], May administer oaths — take affidavits — make
orders of survey. He may administer any oath or take any affidavit
required or permitted in the progress of an action ; and shall make
orders of survey, during vacation, upon the application of any party,
after service of process, and shall indorse the same on the petition,
noting the date thereof aud the party for whom it was made ; and
said orders of survey shall have the same effect as if made by the
court, if the party obtaining the order give to his adversary notice
that the order has been made and of the time when it is to be
executed.
§ 672 [742]. Must prepare bonds. He shall prepare in a proper
manner every bond to be taken by or given before him or his court.
§ 673 [743]. May refuse insufficient surety. He shall refuse
any surety offered in a bond to be taken by him who is, in his opin
ion, insufficient. (Sureties may be sworn ; qualifications of, sees. 68o,
684.)
CHAPTER III.
Duties of Sheriff's.
? 674. To indorse on every process time of reception,
(i 675. When authorized to break and enter building,
j) 676. May break building to execute order of arrest.
? 677. Prevented by force not sufficient return.
§ 674 [744]. To indorse on every process time of reception.
The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons, order of arrest or for
the delivery of property, or of attachment, or injunction, in his hands,
the day and hour of its reception by him. ( What officers word "sher
iff'" embraces, sec. 733-15.)
§ 675 [745]. When authorized to break and enter building.
A sheriff having an order of attachment, or for the delivery of prop
erty, may enter any building or enclosure containing the property, to
take it ; and, if necessary for this purpose, may break the building or
enclosure, having first publicly demanded the property.
§ 676 [746]. May break building to execute order of arrest.
A sheriff having an order of arrest may enter any house or enclosure
in which the party to be arrested may be, to arrest him ; and, if
necessary for this purpose, may break the house or enclosure, after
having informed any person therein of his object; or, if no person
appear to whom such information can be given, after having publicly
demanded the person to be arrested ; and, in either case, after having
given sufficient time for the house or enclosure to be opened.
§ 677 [747]. Prevented by force not sufficient return. It shall
not be a sufficient return of any process, that the officer was prevented
by force from executing it.
CHAPTER IV.
Miseella neons I'ro v in in n s.
\ 678. Ministerial officer may act by deputy.
\ 679. When authority conferred on several, majority may a',t.
\ 680. Oath may be substituted by affirmation.
't 681. Mode of counting days between acts.
\ 682. New bond may be executed for defective one.
\ 683. Officer may swear surety as to his sufficiency.
\ 684. Qualifications of sureties.
\ 685. When action for discovery allowed.
if 686. Successive actions allowed upon same contract.
\ 687. In actions unnecessarily multiplied plaintifff to pay costs.
? 688. Writ of tie exeat abolished.
4 689. When two justices may grant provisional remedy.
\ 690. Executing bond for attached property enters appearance.
\ 691. How unknown defendant described in petition.
\ 692. In action to enforce lien on property other liens on must be stated.
\ 693. Proceedings against surety after bankruptcy . ; principal.
\ 694. Court to be satisfied as to divisibility of real property before ordering salewhole may be sold —proceedings if several liens on same property.
% 695. Whole of indivisible personalty may be sold —payment of excess.
\ 696. Time, place and terms of sales of property,
} 697. Bonds of purchasers— interest on —force of.
\ 698. When purchaser of personalty entitled to it.
\ 699. Lien retained on real property sold — how released.
5 678 [749]. Ministerial officer may act by deputy. Any duty
enjoined by this Code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted
to be done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.
§ 679 [750]. When authority conferred on several majority
may act. An authority conferred by law upon three or more per
sons may be exercised by a majority of them concurring ; and an act
directed by law to be done by three or more persons may be done by
a majority of them concurring.
§ 680 [751]. Oath may be substituted by affirmation. An
oath required by this Code may be substituted by the affirmation of a
person who is conscientiously opposed to taking an oath.
§ 681 [752]. Mode of counting days between acts. If a cer
tain number of days be required to intervene between two acts, the
day of one only of the acts may be counted.
§ 682 [753]. New bond may be executed for defective one. If
a bond provided for by this Code be adjudged to be defective, a new
and sufficient one may be executed in such reasonable time as the
court may fix, with the same effect as if originally executed.
§ 683 [754]. Officer may swear surety as to his sufficiency.
An officer whose duty it is to take a surety in any bond provided for
by this Code may require the person offered as surety to make affi
davit of his qualifications, which affidavit may be made before such
officer. The taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer
from any liability to which he might otherwise be subject for taking
insufficient security. (Form of affidavit, page 407.)
§ 684 [755]. Qualifications of sureties. The surety in every
bond provided for by this Code must be a resident of this State, and
be worth double the sum to be secured beyond the amount of his
debts, and have property liable to execution in this State equal to the
sum to be secured. If there be two or more sureties in the same
bond they "must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed
in this section.
§ 685 [756]. When action for discovery allowed. No action
for a discovery shall be brought, except that, if any person be liable,
jointly or severally with others, upon the same contract, an action
may be brought against any of them to obtain discovery of the names
and residences of the others who are also liable. The petition must
be verified, and must state that the plaintifff has used due diligence to
obtain the information asked to be discovered, and that he does not
believe that the persons liable upon the contract, who are known to
him, have property sufficient to satisfy his claim. The plaintifff must
pay the cost, unless the discovery be resisted.
§ 686 [757]. Successive actions allowed upon same contract.
Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or
transaction, if, after the former action, a new cause of action have
arisen therefrom.
K § 687. In actions unnecessarily multiplied plaintifff to paycosts.
In actions which are unnecessarily multiplied by the plaintifff
against one or more persons, the plaintifff, though supcessful, must
pay the costs, "st^
§ 688 [758]. Writ of ne exeat abolished. The writ of ne exeat,
as a remedy in a civil action, is abolished.
§ 689 [759] When two justices may grant provisional
remedy. If, pursuant to this Code, a provisional remedy may be
granted by the judge of the court in which the action is brought, or
the presiding judge of the county court, it may be granted by any
two justices of the peace of the county, if said judges be absent
therefrom and such absence appear by affidavit.
§ 690 [761]. Executing bond for attached property enters
appearance. In an action in which an attachment has been granted,
the execution by or for the defendant of a bond whereby the attach
ment is discharged, or the possession of the attached property i*
obtained or retained by him, shall be an appearance of such defend
ant in the action.
§ 691. How unknown defendant described in petition. In an
action against a person whose name is unknown to the plaintifff—
1. He shall be described in the petition and process as
unknown defendant.
2. If his name and place of residence, or either, be discovered
by the plaintifff, pending the action, the petition shall be amended
accordingly.
3. If his name and place of residence be unknown to the
plaintifff, he shall be subject to, and be entitled to, the benefit of
the provisions of this Code concerning non-residents of this State.
§ 692. In action to enforce lien on property other liens on
must be stated. The plaintifff in an action for enforcing a lien on
property shall state in his petition the liens held thereon by others,
making them defendants; and may ask for and obtain a judgment
for a sale of the property to satisfy all of said liens which are
shown to exist, though the defendants fail to assert their claims.
Such defendants shall not, however, be allowed to withdraw or
receive any of the proceeds of such sale, until they have shown their
right thereto by answer and cross-petition. But, unless a personal
judgment be prayed for in such cross-petition, there need not be any
summons thereon ; and it shall be treated, with reference to the time
of answering thereto, as a set-off or counterclaim.
§ 693. Proceedings against surety after bankruptcy of prin
cipal. In an action for the recovery of money in which the defend
ant may have given bond with sureties, or for whom sureties may
have given bond, pursuant to the provisions of sections 14, 214, 221, or
258 ; or in which an appellant may have given bond with sureties, or
for whom sureties may have given bond, pursuant to the provisions
of section 724 or section 748—if such defendant or appellant have
thereafter become a bankrupt under the laws of the United States,
upon notice thereof from his adversary being served on the sureties,
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title 4, concerning the ser
vice of a summons, the court shall decide whether or not anything,
and, if anthing, how much, should have been adjudged against the
defendant or appellant, but. for the bankruptcy ; and such decision
shall be conclusive as to the liability of the sureties ; but they shall
not be liable upon a bond given pursuant to section 214, if property
released from an attachment by reason thereof, or its proceeds, have
lawfully come to the defendant's or appellant's assignee in bank
ruptcy.
§ 694 [253, 405]. 1. Court to be satisfied as to divisibility of
real property before ordering sale—whole may be sold—pro
ceedings if several liens on same property. Before ordering a
sale of real property for the payment of debt, the court must be
satisfied by the pleadings, by an agreeement of the parties, by affi
davits filed, or by a report of a commissioner or commissioners,
whether or not the property can be divided without materially impair
ing its value ; and may cause it to be divided, with suitable avenues,
streets, lanes, or alleys ; or without any of them.
2. If it be necessary to sell, for the payment of debt, a parcel
of real property which can not be divided without materially
impairing its value, the officer shall sell the whole of it, though
it bring more than the sum to be raised ; and the court shall
make proper orders for the distribution of the proceeds.
3. The plaintifff in an action to enforce a lien on real property
shall state in his petition the liens, if any, which are held thereon
by others, and make the holders defendants ; and no sale of the
property shall be ordered by the court prejudicial to the rights
of the holders of any of the liens ; and when it appears from the
petition or otherwise, that several debts are secured by one lien,
or by liens of equal rank, and they are all due at the commence
ment of the action, or become so before judgment, the court shall
order the sale for the pro rata satisfaction of all of them ; but,
if, in such case, the debts be owned by different persons and be
not all due, the court shall not order a sale of the property until
they all mature. If all such liens be held by the same party, the
court may order a sale of enough of the property to pay the
debts then due, unless it appear that it is not susceptible of
advantageous division ; or, that, for some other reason, the sale
would cause a sacrifice thereof, or seriously prejudice the inter
ests of the defendants.
§ 695. Whole of indivisible personalty may be sold—payment
of excess. If it be necessary to sell, for payment of debt, one or
more parcels of personal property which, in the opinion of the officer
making the sale, can not be divided without materially impairing the
value thereof, he shall sell the whole of said property, though it bring
more than the sum to be raised ; but he shall have no commission on
the excess. The excess shall be paid to the defendant, or the bond
therefore shall be payable to him.
§ 696. Time, place and terms of sale of property. Every
sale made under an order of court must be public, upon reasonable
credits to be fixed by the court, not less, however, than three months
for personal, nor six months for real, property ; and shall be made
after such notice of the time, place and terms of sale as the order
may direct ; and, unless the order direct otherwise, shall be made at
the door of the courthouse of the county in which the property, or
the greater part thereof, may be situated ; and the notice of sale
must state for what sum of money it is to be made.
§ 697. 1. Bond of purchaser—interest on—force of. The
purchaser of property sold under an order of court shall give bond
for the price, with good surety approved by the officer making the
sale, payable to him or to the person entitled to receive the money,
as the court may direct; or, if the court make no order on the sub
ject, they shall be made payable to the officer.
2. They shall bear interest from date at the rate the judgment
bears.
3. They shall have the force of judgments ; and on executions
issued upon them no replevy shall be allowed, and sales shall be
for cash. (Form of bowl, page 405.)
§ 698. When purchaser of personalty entitled to it. The
purchaser of personal property sold under an order of court shall bo
entitled to it, upon complying with the terms of sale.
§ 699. Lien retained on real property sold—how released.
A lion shall exist on real property sold under an order of court, as
security for the purchase money ; and, upon payment thereof, the
clerk shall release the lien ou the margin of the record of the deed
in the office of the clerk of the county court.
§ 700 [822]. Code regulates proceedings in all courts except
as provided in this chapter. The provisions of this Code shall
regulate the proceedings in civil actions in quarterly courts, county
courts, police courts, city courts, mayors' courts, and courts of justices
of the peace, except as is provided in this chapter. (As to jurisdiction
of quarterly and justices' courts, sec pages ,181, 388.)
§ 701 [823]. To whom process directed. A summons, order for
a provisional remedy, and other process, from quarterly courts or
county courts, shall be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or a constable,
at the option of the plaintifff; those from police, city, and mayors'
courts, shall be directed to the marshal or a constable ; and those from
courts of justices of the peace shall be directed to a constable; or to
a special agent appointed by the justice, by an indorsement on the
process, upon an affidavit of the plaintifff or his agent being filed
before the justice, to the effect that the process can not be executed,
according to the belief of the affiant, unless such special agent be
appointed : but such process may be served by any officer or person
who is authorized by this Code to serve a summons. (Officers who
can serve summons, sec. 667 ; form of summons, page 40%; of subpoena,
page #21; of execution, page 4.16; of distress xoarrant page 419. of at
tachment, page 1/12?)
% 702 [824]. Duties and powers of judge or justice as clerk.
The duties and powers enjoined and conferred by this Code upon
clerks shall devolve on the judges or justices who are by law required
to act as clerks of their courts.
§ 703 [825]. 1. Clerk of quarterly court—duties of county
clerk. The presiding judge of the quarterly court shall be the clerk
of such court.
2. The county judge may, by an order entered of record in the
quarterly court, empower the county clerk to act as clerk of the
quarterly court ; and, upon such order being entered, the clerk
shall be authorized to issue any process of the quarterly court,
as fully as the judge might do, acting as clerk of such court.
And the county clerk issuing such process shall be entitled to
the same fees, and subject to the same responsibilities, as the
judge would have been.
3. Such order shall not prevent the judge from acting as clerk
of the quarterly court in any case in which he may choose so
to act.
4. If no such order be made, the county clerk shall, in the
absence of the county judge from his office, act as clerk of the
quarterly court, in the same manner as if such order had been
made.
5. The county clerk shall, at the commencement of each term
of the quarterly court, deliver to the presiding judge all process
of such court returned to him, and all papers filed with him
relating to actions pending in such court.
§ 704 [826]. Only one docket to be kept. Only one docket is
required to be kept—on which shall be entered all the actions and
motions as they shall be returned.
§ 705 [827]. When pleadings may be oral. If the matter in
controversy do not exceed fifty dollars, the pleadings in the action
may be oral and without verification. But before the summons is
issued the plaintifff shall file in the court the account, or the written
,contract, or a short written statement of the facts, on which the
action is founded. (The forms of pleadings commencing on page S85
will answer in cases in quarterly and justices' courts when written
pleadings are required.)
§ 706 [828]. Time in which summons must be served to
authorize trial. In the actions named in the last section, the ser
vice of the summons five days before the time of trial shall authorize
a trial and judgment. If the matter in controversy exceed fifty dol
lars, the service of the summons ten days before its return day shall
authorize a trial and judgment, whether the proceedings are ordinary
or equitable. (Forms ofjudgments, page J$3.)
§ 707 [829]. Proceedings when action called for trial. Upon
the calling of an action for trial, if the summons have been served in
due time, the parties must proceed forthwith to form an issue and try
the case, unless the court give further time, or grant a continuance.
§ 708 [830]. How evidence taken in equitable actions. In
.equitable actions, the parties may either take the depositions of wit
nesses, or examine them orally in court.
§ 709 [831]. How subpoena served. A subpoena may be served
by showing it to the witness and informing him of the substance of it,
without delivering to him a copy or ticket.
§ 710 [832]. District in which action to be tried. If the
,defendant reside in the county in which the summons is issued, it
shall be returned for trial in the district of his residence, unless he
otherwise consent in writing, signed by him and indorsed on the
summons; or, unless the justices in such district be interested or
refuse to act, in which case it shall be returned in an adjoining dis
trict. If it be issued by the judge of the quarterly court, it shall be
returned before him, unless the defendant, or defendants, all reside
in one district and there be an acting justice of the peace and an act
ing constable in such district.
The amendment of February 28,1882, striking out the followingwords
in this section to-wit : "Unless the defendant or defend
ants all reside in one district, and there be an acting justice
of the peace and an acting constable in such district," was re
pealed by act of February 21, 1884- This section has becn amended
so far as applicable to the counties of Bath, Bourbon and Mercer.
§ 711 [833]. Place of trial if more than one defendant. If
there be two or more defendants residing in the county, but in differ
ent districts, the summons shall be returnable in either district.
§ 712 [834]. Place of trial in action against transient defend
ant. If a defendant transiently in a county be served with a sum
mons issuing in said county, it shall be returned in the district in
which he is served, unless he otherwise consent in writing signed by
him.
§ 713 [835]. When jury trial may be demanded. The parties
shall not be entitled to a trial by jury, unless the matter in contro
versy exceed in value twenty dollars. Upon a jury trial being
claimed, if it be allowable, the presiding judge or justice shall order
a jury to be forthwith empaneled to try the action. The jurors shall
be qualified as is required in the circuit courts.
§ 714 [836]. Time in which new trial may be granted. A new
trial may be granted iu the quarterly courts or courts of justices of
the peace, upon motion made within ten days after a judgment has
been rendered, of which motion reasonable notice shall be given to
the adverse party.
§ 715 [837]. Justice to keep record of proceedings. Each
presiding judge and justice of the peace shall, in a book provided for
that purpose, keep a full and fair record of judicial proceedings in his
court ; and keep a good cross-index of the names of the litigants, refer
ring to the pages of the book of every entry in each case.
§ 716 [839]. When interrogatories may be filed to be an
swered by adverse party. Either party may file with the judge,
justice, or clerk of the court, in which the case is to be tried, written
interrogatories, to be answered by an adverse party who resides out
of the county where the court sits, or who is unable to attend court
on account of infirmity or imprisonment, or who is a female ; and
may cause a certified copy of such interrogatories to be delivered tothe
party who is required to answer them ; and such party shall file
with the clerk, on or before the day of trial, a plain and direct
response to the interrogatories, sworn to by him. Such response
may be read as a deposition by either party.
§ 717 [840]. Judgment to be rendered against party refus
ing to testify. The court shall render judgment against the party
who refuses to attend and be examined when summoned, as is author
ized by this Code, two days before the trial ; or to make proper re
sponses to interrogatories, a copy of which shall have been delivered
to him three days before the trial, if he reside within fifty miles of
the place of trial, and one additional day for every additional thirty
miles he may reside therefrom : but the court may grant further time
for attending or answering.
§ 718 [841]. Last two sections apply to appeals. The last
two sections shall apply to appeals from judgments of quarterly,
justices', city, police, and mayors', courts.
§ 719 [842]. How judgment may be renewed when record
lost. If the record of a judgment of a quarterly, city, police, may
or's, or justice's, court be lost or destroyed, such court may, on motion
of the plaintifff, made within five years after the rendition of the
judgment, and after five days' notice, render a new judgment for
what may remain due thereon.
§ 720 [843]. Set-off or counterclaim in excess of jurisdiction
may be used as defense. A set-off or counterclaim, though
exceeding, in amount, the jurisdiction of the court, may be used to
bar and extinguish the demand of the plaintifff; but no judgment
shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the excess, unless such
excess be within the limits of the court's jurisdiction as to amount.
The judgment shall ascertain the amount due to the plaintifff and give
him a credit therefore on the claim used as a set-off or counterclaim.
(Set-off" and counterclaim defined, sec. 90'.)
§ 721 [844]. When provisional remedy to be tried. It an
order for a provisional remedy, made by a judge or justice, in an
action within the jurisdiction of his court, be served or levied, the
trial of the action and disposition of the order may take place at any
time after five days' notice given to the defendant by the officer who
serves or levies such order ; or after five days' notice given by the
defendant to the plaintifff', upon a counter-affidavit filed by the
defendant; and, if the judge or justice, before whom the trial should
regularly, be had, be absent or unable to act, the officer may return
the case for trial before the most convenient justice.
§ 722 [845]. Land can not be levied on under execution from.
Land shall not be sold nor levied on under execution from a quarterly
or justice's court, or any court of similar jurisdiction.
§ 723 [846]. Proceedings to sell land when execution re
turned no property found. When an execution upon a judg
ment of a court mentioned in section 722 is returned by a proper
officer, in whole or in part, in substance, no property found to
satisfy it, the judge or justice of the court shall, upon application
of the plaintifff or his attorney, furnish a certified copy of the judg
ment, execution and return ; which, on being filed in the office of the
clerk of the circuit court of the county in which the judgment was
rendered, shall be recorded by him in a book kept for that purpose;
and, thereupon, the plaintifff shall be entitled to the same remedies
for the amount of his judgment and costs, including the costs of said
copy and of recording it, as if the judgment had been rendered in
the circuit court.
CHAPTER II.
Appeals from their Judgments.
{ 724. How appeal taken.
? 725. Original papers to be transmitted to court appealed to.
{ 726. When appeals stand for trial— how tried.
$ 727. Costs upon appeal —who to pay.
\ 728. Who to pay costs in inferior court.
\ 729. Time in which appeal must be taken.
I 730. On trial of appeal, appellee has choice of remedies.
i 731. Copy of judgment and costs to be furnished party appealing.
§ 724 [847]. How appeal taken. Appeals may be taken in the
manner following :
1. The party appealing shall produce to the clerk of the court
to which the appeal is taken a certified copy of the judgment
and amount of costs, and cause to be executed before him, by
one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by him, a bond to
the effect that the appellant will satisfy and perform the judg
ment that shall be rendered upon the appeal ; whereupon, the
clerk shall issue an order to the judge, mayor, or justice, ren
dering the judgment, to stay proceedings thereon; and to trans
mit to the office of said clerk all the original papers in the case;
and the appellee sball be summoned, actually or constructively,
as is provided in chapter 2 of title 4, to appear and defend the
appeal. The provisions of this section, in regard to clerks, apply
to a judge who acts as clerk of his own court.
2. If the amount in controversy be of the value of twenty
dollars or more, exclusive of interest and costs, either party may
direct the appeal to be taken to the circuit court, and the judge
or justice shall make a minute thereof as part of the record.
(Form of summons on appeal, page JfiS ; appeal bond and super
sedeas, page JftG; if appeal bond defective, new one may be
executed, sec. 682 ; as to jurisdiction of appeals, sec page 375.)
c 725 [848]. Original papers to be transmitted to court ap
pealed to. The judge, mayor, or justice, on being served with said
order, shall, in ten days thereafter, transmit all the original papers in
the action to the clerk's office of the court to which the appeal ih
taken.
§ 726 [849]. When appeals stand for trial—how tried. Ap
peals shall be docketed and stand for trial as ordinary actions, and
shall be tried anew, as if no judgment had been rendered.
§ 727 [850]. Costs upon appeal—who to pay. Unless the judg
ment on the appeal be more favorable to the appellant than the
original judgment, he shall pay the costs of the appeal. If he merely
succeed in reducing the amount of a judgment rendered against him,
it shall be at the discretion of the court to allow him costs or not.
§ 728 [851]. Who to pay costs in inferior court. Tho costs in
the inferior court shall be adjudged in favor of the plaintifff, if he
succeed in obtaining, on the appeal, a judgment for any amount;
.otherwise, in favor of the defendant.
§ 729 [852]. Time in which appeal must be taken. No appeal
shall be taken pursuant to this article, except within sixty days from
the rendering of the judgment. (How days betwecn acts counted,
sec. 681.)
§ 730 [853]. On trial of appeal appellee has choice of remedies.
If the appellant move to dismiss or fail to prosecute his appeal, it
shall be at the option of the appellee, either to proceed to trial on the
appeal, or to have judgment rendered for the amount of the original
judgment and costs, if it was in his favor, or in bar of the original
judgment, if it was against him.
§ 731 [854]. Copy of judgment and costs to be furnished
party appealing. If a party wish to take an appeal, the mayor,
judge, or justice, before whom the case was tried, shall deliver to
him, upon application, a copy of the judgment and amount of costs
.certified by him.
§ 732 [855 to 873]. Rules that prevail in construing Code. In
construing the provisions of this Code, these rules shall prevail,
unless a different intention be expressed, or be shown by the context :
1. Title — chapter — article — section. The words "title,"
" chapter," " article," " section," and the figure §, refer to pro
visions of this Code.
2. Tense. Each tense includes every tense.
3. Gender. Each gender includes every gender.
4. Plural—singular. The singular includes the plural, and
the plural the singular, number.
5. Person. The word " person " includes a corporation.
6. Writing. The word "writing" includes printing and
printed paper.
7. Signature—subscription. The words "signature," "sub
scription," and words of like import, include a mark by, or for,
a person who can not write, if his name be subscribed to an
instrument and witnessed by a person who, near thereto, writes
his own name as a witness.
8. Action for money, includes what. An action for money
includes an action for the recovery of damages as well as of
money due by contract.
f*. Real property. The words "real property" mean lands,
tenements and hereditaments.
10. Personal property. The words " personal property ''
mean money, goods, chattels, things in action and evidences of
debt.
11. Property. The word " property " includes any vested
interest, legal or equitable, in real or personal property.
12. Court—judge—justice —clerk. The word "court" re
fers to the court in which an action or proceeding is pending, or
may be brought; and the words "judge," justice," clerk," refer
to officers of such oourt.
13. Justices' courts —quarterly courts. The words "jus
tices' courts'" or "quarterly courts" embrace courts having sim
ilar jurisdiction, in whole or in part, to that of justices' courtsor
quarterly courts; and the words "justice" or "presiding
judge," and words of like import, embraoe judges of either of
said courts.
14. Circuit court—circuit judge. Excepting criminal courts
and judges thereof, the words " circuit court " embrace courts
having similar jurisdiction, in whole or in part, to that of cir
cuit courts ; and the words " circuit judge " embrace judges of
either of said courts.
15. Sheriff. The word " sheriff" means the sheriff of the
county in which the action or proceeding referred to is pending,
or the sheriff of another comity to which process is directc! ;,
and it means, also, any officer or person who is Or may be author
ized by law to act as, or in place of, a sheriff.
16. Coroner—justice—jailer— constable. The words " cor
oner," "justice," "jailer," "constable," mean officers of the
county in which the action or proceeding referred to is pend
ing, or may be brought, or to which the process referred to is
directed.
17. Personal representative. The words " personal repre
sentative " mean the executor or administrator or other person
appointed to take charge of the estate of a deceased person.
18. Real representative. The words " real representative "
mean the heir or devisee of real property of a deceased person.
19. Representative. The word " representative " includes
personal and real representatives.
20. Successor. The word "successor" means a person who
takes the place of another as personal representative, curator,
guardian, receiver, trustee, or committee.
21 . Other country—foreign corporation. The words " other
country," " foreign corporation," and words of like import,
refer to any part of the world out of this State.
22. United States. The words " United States " embrace the
States and Territories thereof and the District of Columbia.
23. Oath. The word " oath " includes affirmation, in any case
in which it may be substituted for an oath, and iu like cases the
word sworn " includes affirmed.
24. Verification — verified. The word "verification" in
cludes oath and affirmation, and the word " verified " includes
sworn and affirmed.
25. Month — year. The word "month" means calendar
month, and the word " year" means calendar year.
26. Process. The word " process" means a writ or summons
issued in the course of judicial proceedings.
27. Writ. The word " writ " means an order or precept in
writing, issued by a court, clerk, or judicial officer.
28. Joint tenants. The words "joint tenants," and words of
like import, embrace tenants in common and in coparcenary.
29. Joint property. The words "joint property," and words
of like import, embrace property held jointly or in partnership
or in coparcenary or in common.
30. Joint debtors. The words "joint debtors," and words of
like import, embrace all persons who may be sued in one action
upon the plaintifff's demand.
81. Disability. The word "disability" means coverture,
infancy, unsoundness of mind, or imprisonment in a penitentiary
of this State or of any other country.
32. Residence—reside. The words " residence," " reside,"
mean, with reference to a corporation, its chief office, or place of
business.
33. Chief officer or agent of corporation. The chief officer
or agent of a corporation which has any of the officers or agents
herein mentioned is: 1, its president; 2, its vice-president; 3,
its secretary or librarian; 4, its cashier or treasurer; 5, its
clerk : (3, its managing agent.
34. Action. The word " action " embraces a demand for a
set off or counterclaim ; and also embraces special proceedings,
so far as the provisions of this Code concerning actions are prop
erly applicable to such proceedings.
35. Party. The word " party " means a plaintifff or defendant
in an action, and embraces any person who has a right and seeks
to become a party to an action.
36. Plaintiff—defendant—petition. The word "plaintifff"
embraces a defendant who demands a set-off or counterclaim ;
the word "defendant"' embraces a plaintifff against whom such
demand is made ; and the word " petition " embraces an answer
or reply in which such demand is made, and also embraces crosspetitions.
37. Sue. The word "sue" refers to an action or special pro
ceeding.
38. Examiner. The word " examiner " embraces any person
authorized to take a deposition.
39. Clerk. The word " clerk " embraces justices and judges
. of courts which have no clerk.
40. Person of unsound mind. The words " person of
unsound mind" include persons who are destitute of mind.
§ 733 [874]. Code not to be strictly construed. The rule of
the common law, that statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly
construed, shall not be applied to this Code.
§ 734 [876]. By whom and how appeal taken. The mode of
bringing the judgment of an inferior court to the Court of Appeals,
for reversal or modification, shall be by an appeal, which shall be
granted, as matter of right, to a party or privy against a party or
privy, by the court rendering the judgment, on motion made during
the term at which it is rendered, or thereafter by the clerk of the
Court of Appeals, on application of either party or his privy, upon
filing in the office of said clerk a copy of the judgment from which
he appeals. ( What judgments will not be reversed, sec. 763 ; final order
may be appealed fro in, secs. 266,298 ; appeal from county court, sec.
499-12; form of orders granting appeal, page £25; jurisdiction of Court
of Appeals and Superior Court, sec pages 875, 376.)
§ 735 [877]. Designation of parties to appeal. The party tak
ing the appeal shall be called the appellant ; and the adverse party,
the appellee.
§ 736 [878]. 1. When summons on appeal not necessary. No
summons of appellees shali be necessary, if the appeal be granted by
the inferior court; or, if the appellees enter their appearance in the
Court of Appeals.
2. In all other cases, the appellees shall be summoned actually
or constructively, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of title
4, to appear and answer the appeal.
3. For an appellee who is constructively summoned in the
Court of Appeals, that court shall appoint an attorney, whose
duty it shall be to inform the appellee of the pendency of the
appeal ; and the court may allow him a reasonable compensation
for his services, to be paid by the appellant and taxed as costa.
§ 737 [879]. Transcripts upon appeals how prepared. Con
cerning transcripts of records to be used in the Court of Appeals—
1. a. The clerk of the court which renders a judgment shall
copy the entire record, or parts thereof, according to the direc
tions of the judge of the court, or of the parties to the appeal ;
and the tiling of a schedule, as hereinafter authorized, shall be
deemed a direction to copy the parts of the record therein men
tioned.
b. The clerk shall be governed by the provisions of sub-sec
tions 8 and 9 of this section, in making any transcript to which
those provisions apply.
2. In cases to which the provisions of chapter 3 of title 10
apply, the appellant, whether the appeal be granted by the inferior
court, or by the clerk of the Court of Appeals, shall present to
the judge of the inferior court his assignment of errors; the
judge shall, by directions indorsed on, or annexed to, the assign
ment, order the clerk of the inferior court to copy such specified
parts of the record as, in view of the alleged errors, may be
material ; and the appellant shall file said assignment and direc
tions in the office of said last-mentioned clerk.
3. In all other cases in which the appeal is granted by the
inferior court, if the appellees shall have been defendants in the
action, and if any of them shall have been only constructively
summoned, and have not appeared, in the action, and be not
actually summoned to answer the appeal, the appellant shall
,order a transcript of the entire record.
4. In all other cases in which the appeal is granted by the
inferior court—
a. The appellant, within ninety days after the granting of the
appeal, shall file in the office of the clerk of the inferior court
his assignment of errors, and a schedule showing, concisely, what
parts of the record he wishes to have copied. His failure to file
said assignment and schedule within the time prescribed shall be
cause for the dismissal of his appeal.
b. After filing said assignment and schedule, the appellant may
cause notice of the filing thereof to be served on the appellee,
and to be returned to said office, as a summons is directed to bo
served and returned ; and, within twenty days after such service;
or, if such notice be not served, within one hundred and twenty
days after the granting of the appeal; or, whether such notice
be served or not, at any time before completion of the transcript
ordered by the appellant, and not afterward, the appellee may
file in said office a schedule similar to that above described ; and,
if he wish to take a cross-appeal, he shall file with said schedule
his assignment of cross-errors.
c. If the appellee file an assignment of cross-errors, the appel
lant, within forty days after service of notice upon the appellee
as aforesaid ; or, if notice be not served, within one hundred
and thirty days after the granting of the appeal ; or, whether
such notice be served or not, at any time before completion of
the transcript ordered by the appellee, and not afterward, may,
with reference to the cross appeal, file an additional schedule
similar to that above described.
5. Excepting the cases provided for by sub-section 2 of this
section, if an appeal be granted by the clerk of the Court of
Appeals, and if the appellees be actually summoned to appear to
the appeal ; or, if, being femes covert or free from disability, they
enter their appearance to the appeal, the appellant may order a
transcript of the entire record or of parts thereof.
6. In all other cases in which an appeal is granted by the clerk
of the Court of Appeals, the appellant shall order a transcript of
the entire record.
7. If the appellant, to whom an appeal is granted by the clerk
of the Court of Appeals, choose to file a transcript of a part
only of the record —
a. He shall file in the office of the clerk of the inferior court
his assignment of errors, and a schedule similar to that above
described ; and shall cause notice of the filing thereof to be
served on the appellees, and to be returned to said office, as a
summons is directed to be served and returned.
b. Within twenty days after service of such notice, or at any
subsequent time before completion of the transcript ordered by
the appellant, and not afterward, the appellee may file in said
office a schedule similar to that above described, and an assign
ment of cross-errors, if he wish to take a cross-appeal.
c. If the appellee file cross-errors, the appellant, within forty
days after service of the notice mentioned in subdivision a of
this sub-section, or at any subsequent time before completion
of the copy ordered by the appellee, and not afterward, may file,
with reference to the cross-appeal, an additional schedule similar
to that above described.
8. The provisions of sub-section 3 of section 335 shall apply
to all transcripts made by clerks.
9. If a sabp/rna duces tecum, issued pursuant to section 743,
sub-section 2, be delivered to the clerk of the inferior court
before he shall have copied the part of the record therein men
tioned, be shall transmit such part instead of a copy thereof,
though a copy thereof may have been ordered by the judge of
the inferior court, or by a party to the appeal.
10. The above-mentioned directions of the judge, assignments
of error, schedules, and notices and returns thereon, shall, when
filed in the office of the clerk of the inferior court, constitute
part of the record ; but shall not be spread at large on the orderbook
; and shall be copied in the transcript.
11. A clerk who copies papers which do not constitute part of
a record, unless required to do so by a judge or a party ; and a
party who requires a clerk to copy such papers, or immaterial
parts of a record, shall pay the costs resulting therefrom, to be
adjudged by the Court of Appeals upon or without motion.
12. At the close of the transcript, the clerk shall certify, in
substance, that it contains a true and complete copy of the
record, or of such parts thereof as he may have been required to
copy, according to the truth; and shall append an index refer
ring, consecutively, to the pages on which the copy of each
pleading, or other separate part of the record, commences ; and
describing briefly the exhibits, if any.
13. Subject to the provisions of sections 742 and 743, tran
scripts and transmissions of parts of records, made pursuant to
the foregoing provisions of this section, shall constitute complete
records for the purposes of appeals.
Act of April 4, repealing procisions requiring assignment
of errors : § 1. That so much of chapters 1, 2 and 3, of title
18, of an act entitled "An act regulating practice in civil cases,"
as relates to and requires the assignment of errors and crosserrors
by parties prosecuting appeals or cross-appeals, be, and
the same is hereby, repealed.
§ 738. Time in which transcript must be filed. The appellant
shall file the transcript in the office of the clerk of the Court of
Appeals at least twenty days before the first day of the second term of
said court next after the granting of the appeal, unless the court
extend the time ; as, for cause shown, the court may do.
§ 739. Appellant to file statement with transcript. It shall
be the duty of the appellant to file with the transcript—
1. A statement showing—
a. The names of the appellants, accompanied by the word
" appellants."
b. The names of the appellees, accompanied by the word
" appellees ; " or, the words " unknown appellees," if their names
be unknown.
c. The term, or lay, when the judgment appealed from was
rendered, and the page of the record on which it may be found.
(/. Whether or not the appellant wishes to have a summons
issued, or a warning order made; and, if any, for whom, and to
what county, the summons shall be issued ; and against whom
the warning order shall be made.
2. An affidavit conforming to sections 57 and 58, if a warning
order be desired.
3. The appellant's assignment of errors, unless he shall have
filed it in the clerk's office of the inferior court pursuant to the
provisions of section 737.
§ 740. Statement must be filed before appeal docketed. No
appeal shall be docketed by the clerk until the appellant complies
with the provisions of section 739 ; and if he fail to file the transcript
within the time allowed by section 738, or by the court pursuant
thereto, his appeal shall be dismissed.
§ 741 [880]. Appellee may file copy of record. The appellee
may file an authenticated copy of the record in the clerk's office of
the Court of Appeals with the same effect as if filed by the appellant.
§ 742 [881]. Writ of certiorari— when may be issued. If any
party to an appeal file in the clerk's office of the Court of Appeals
his affidavit, or that of his attorney, that the judge of the inferior
court has refused or failed to order the clerk, as is authorized by sub
section 2 of section 737, to copy a material part of the record,—which
shall, in general terms, be described in the affidavit; —or shall file in
said office a statement of himself, or of his attorney, that the clerk
of the inferior court has refused or failed to copy a part of the record
which a judge pursuant to sub-section 2 of section 737, or which n
party pursuant to sub-sections 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, of section 737, may
have ordered to be copied —which parts of the record shall, in general terras, be described in the statement, —the clerk of the Court of
Appeals shall, upon the application of such party, issue a writ of
certiorari, describing, in general terras,, such omitted parts of the
record, and commanding the clerk of the inferior court, forthwith, to
transmit copies thereof to the Court of Appeals.
§ 743 [882]. 1. Court may issue certiorari—may order orig
inal papers to be filed. If the appellees, having been defendants
in the original action in the inferior court, be under any disability,
other than coverture, or infancy and coverture combined, the Court
of Appeals may, hy writ of certiorari directed to the clerk of the infe
rior court require him to transmit a transcript of such parts of the
record as the parties may have failed to require him to copy.
2. The Court of Appeals, if satisfied that a view of any part
of a record may be important to a correct decision of an appeal;
or that the copying of any part of a record would cause great
and unnecessary cost or delay, may, by a writ of subpoena duces
tecum directed to the clerk of the inferior court, cause him to
transmit such part of the record to the clerk of the Court of
Appeals. It shall be identified by the clerk of the inferior court,
by his certificate indorsed thereon or appended thereto ; and,
after the cause shall have been decided by the Court of Appeals,
shall be returned by its clerk to the clerk of the inferior court,
and be kept by him subject to the order of the inferior court. The
cost of such transmission and return shall be paid by the party
at whose instance the transmission is made, and be taxed as part
of the costs.
§ 744 [883]. Appellant may be required to secure costs. The
appellant may be required to give security for costs, as plaintifff's in
eivil actions may be so required.
§ 745 [884]. Limitation on appeals. An appeal shall not be
granted except within two years next after the right to appeal first
accrued, unless the party applying therefore was then a defendant in
the action, and an infant not under coverture ; or of unsound mind ;
or a prisoner who did not appear by his attorney —in which cases an
appeal may be granted to such parties, or their representatives, within
one year next after their deaths or the removal of their disabilities,
whichever may first happen.
§ 746 [885]. Tax on appeals. The tax on an appeal shall be one
dollar.
CHAPTER II.
Supersedeas on Appeals.
\ 747. Supersedeas necessary to stay proceedings.
? 748. Supersedeas bond—conditions of.
\ 749. Who to take bond and issue supersedeas.
\ 750. Supersedeas may be discharged for insufficiency of bond.
\ 751. Part of judgment may be superseded.
g 752. Supersedeas denned.
§ 747 [886]. Supersedeas necessary to stay proceedings. An
appeal shall not stay proceedings on the judgment, unless a superse
deas be issued.
§ 748 [887]. Supersedeas bond — conditions of. A super
sedeas shall not be issued, until the appellant cause to be executed
before the clerk of the court which rendered the judgment, or the
,clerk of the Court of Appeals, by one or more sufficient sureties, to
be approved by such clerk, a bond to the effect that the appellant
shall pay to appellee all costs and damages that shall be adjudged
against the appellant on the appeal ; also, that he will satisfy and
perform the judgment appealed from, if it should be affirmed, and
any judgment, or order, which the Court of Appeals may render, or
order to be rendered by the inferior court, not exceeding in amount*
or value, the original judgment and all rents, or hire, or damages to
property, during the pendency of the appeal, of which the appellee
is kept out of possession by reason of the appeal. {Form of superse
deas and bond, pages Ifid, 426.)
§ 749 [888, 889]. 1. Who to take bond and issue supersedeas.
The bond must be executed before the clerk of the court rendering
the judgment, if the appeal be granted by that court. In other
cases, it must be executed before the clerk of the Court of Appeals.
2. The clerk of the court rendering the judgment shall issue the
supersedeas, if the bond be executed before him before the expi
ration of the time for filing a copy of the record in the clerk's
office of the Court of Appeals pursuant to section 738. In other
cases, it must be issued by the clerk of the Court of Appeals.
§ 750 [890]. Supersedeas may be discharged for insufficiency
of bond. The appellee may move the Court of Appeals, if in
session ; or, on reasonable notice to the appellant, may move a judge
of said court in vacation, to discharge the supersedeas; and, if the
court or judge shall consider the sureties insufficient, or the bond
substantially detective in securing the rights of the appellee, the court
or judge shall make an order discharging the supersedeas, unless a
good bond with sufficient sureties be forthwith executed. The order,
if made by a judge, shall be in writing and signed by him ; upon the
filing of which, or of a certified copy of the order, if made by the
court, in the clerk's office of the inferior court, executions and other
proceedings for enforcing the judgment may be immediately taken,
as if no supersedeas had been issued. But another supersedeas may
be issued by the clerk of the Court of Appeals upon the execution
of a new and lawful bond, with sufficient sureties, as hereinbefore
provided.
§ 751 [891]. Part of judgment may be superseded. The super
sedeas may be issued to stay proceedings on a part of a judgment, and
in such case the bond shall be varied so as to secure the part super
seded.
§ 752 [892]. Supersedeas defined. The supersedeas is a written
order, signed by the clerk, commanding the appellee and all others
to stay proceedings on the judgment or order.
CHAPTER III.
Trial and Decision.
{ 753. When appeals stand for trial.
? 754. Docket to be arranged by clerk —printing of.
\ 755. Manner in which cross appeal "taken.
3 756. Assignment of errors —must be substantial to authorize reversal.
\ 757. Motion by appellee to dismiss appeal —when heard.
? 758. Appellee may by pleading show cause for dismissing appeal.
| 759. Motion to affirm as delay case —when and how made.
\ 760. Court may make rules —when mandate to issue.
\ 761. Proceedings in inferior court if case affirmed, dismissed, or reversed.
? 762. Power of court to enforce mandate.
\ 763. What judgments court will not reverse or modify.
\ 764. Damages upon affirmance.
\ 765. Written opinions to be delivered.
? 766. Duty of reporter.
I 767. Provisions concerning revivor applicable.
§ 753 [893]. When appeals stand for trial. Appeals shall stand
for trial during the first term twenty days before which the transcript
is filed in the clerk's office, if—
1. The appeal be granted by the inferior court; or,
2. The appearance of the appellee be entered five days before
the day on which the case is set for trial on the docket ; or,
3. The appellee be summoned actually twenty days, or con
structively thirty days, before said day.
§ 754 [894]. 1. Docket to be arranged by clerk—printing of
The clerk shall arrange the appeals upon the docket, setting a proper
number for each day of the term ; and in arranging them may have
due regard to the convenience of litigants, in placing together the
appeals from the several judicial districts.
2. He shall, at least fifteen days before each term, furnish a
copy of the docket to the Public Printer ; who shall immediately
print not less than five hundred copies thereof, and send one of
said copies to the clerk of each circuit court, chancery court, and
court of common pleas, for public use ; and the claim of the
printer shall be approved and certified by the court, and be paid
as other claims upon the treasury.
§ 755 [895]. 1. Manner in which cross-appeal taken. The
appellee, if he have filed an assignment of errors in the clerk's office
of the inferior court, pursuant to the provisions of sub-sections 4 and
7 of section 737 ; or, in any case, upon filing such assignment in the
Court of Appeals, may obtain a cross-appeal, at any time before trial,
by an entry on the records of the Court of Appeals.
2. The failure of the appellee to take a cross-appeal after assign
ing cross-errors pursuant to the provisions of sub-sections 4 or 7
of section 737, and not otherwise shall bar his right to an appeal.
3. The failure of an appellant to prosecute an appeal; or his
dismissal of it after the appellee shall have assigned cross-errors
pursuant to the provisions of sub-sections 4 or 7 of section 737, or
sub-section 1 of this section, shall not prevent the appellee from
prosecuting a cross-appeal.
§ 756 [896]. 1. Assignment of errors —must be substantial to
authorize reversal. Every appellant or cross-appellant must, by
his assignment of errors, specify the particular errors on which he
means to rely; and no other shall be alleged by the party or exam
ined into by the court; nor shall a judgment be reversed or modi
fied, except for an error to the prejudice of the substantial rights of
the party complaining thereof.
2. But the Court of Appeals may allow a party, having been
a defendant in the original action in the inferior court, and being
under any disability, excepting coverture, or infancy and coverture combined, to amend an assignment of errors or cross-errors,
after reasonable notice to the adverse party.
Amendment of May 5, 1880: % 1. That section 756 of the Code
of Practice in civil cases be amended so as to read as follows :
1. Every appellant or cross-appellant must, by his assignment of
errors, specify the particular errors on which he means to rely;
and no others shall be passed upon by the court, nor shall a judg
ment be reversed or modified, except for an error to the preju
dice of the substantial rights of the party complaining thereof;
but the Court of Appeals may, on motion, after ten days' notice
to the adverse party, or his attorney, allow a party to file a tran
script of an additional portion of the record. (Assignment of
errors not required, sec amendment to sec. 737.)
§ 757 [897]. Motion by appellee to dismiss appeal—when
heard, If it appear from the record that an appeal was improperly
granted, or that the appellant's right to prosecute it further has
ceased, the appellee may, upon stating the grounds in writing, move
the court to dismiss the appeal. The motion shall not be heard,
without the appellant's consent, before the day on which the case is
set for trial on the docket.
Amendment of May 5, 1880: % 1. That section 757 of an act
regulating practice in civil cases be amended so as to read as fol
lows : If it appear from the record that an appeal was improperly
granted, or that the appellant's right to prosecute it further has
ceaaed, the appellee may, upon stating the grounds, in writing,
move the court to dismiss the appeal. The motion shall not bo
heard without the appellant's consent, before the day on which
the case is set for trial on the docket, except upon five days'
notice served upon the appellant or upon his attorney ot' record.
Amendment of March 1888: § 1. That the following words
be, and they are hereby, added to section 757 of the Civil Code of
Practice, viz : " But when a party recovers judgment for only part
of the demand or property he sues for, the enforcement of sucli
judgment shall not prevent him from prosecuting an appeal there
from as to so much of the demand or property sued for that ho
did not recover."
§ 758 [898]. Appellee may by pleading show cause for dis
missing appeal. If the facts mentioned in section 757 be not shown
by the record, the appellee may plead them by a verified answer, to
which the appellant may file a verified reply ; and the questions of
law or fact thereon shall be heard and determined by the court on or
after the day on which the case is set for trial on the docket.
§ 759 [899]. Motion to affirm as delay case—when and how
made. If an appeal with a supersedeas be taken for delay merely,
the appellee may at any time move the court to affirm the judgment
as a delay case ; before making which motion, he or his counsel shall
indorse on the record, in substance, that he has carefully examined
the record and believes the appeal is prosecuted for delay merely ;
whereupon, the court shall examine the record, and if they find no
error in the proceedings, and believe the appeal was prosecuted for
delay merely, they shall affirm the judgment.
§ 760 [900]. 1. Court may make rules — when mandate to
issue. The Court of Appeals may make rules for the convenient dispatch of business, the preservation of order, the argument of cases or
motions, and the manner and time of presenting motions or petitions
for rehearing, therein ; and the time for issuing its mandates and
decisions, and the mode of enforcing its mandates and orders, and may
change the same: Provided, That no mandate shall issue, nor decision
become final, until after thirty days, excluding Sundays, from the day
on which the decision is rendered, unless the court, in delay cases,
otherwise direct; and, if said thirty days expire during a vacation or
recess of the court, a written order of one of its judges, filed in its
clerk's office, within said thirty days, shall have the same effect
to suspend the mandate, by allowing a petition for a rehearing to be
filed, or by allowing time to file such petition, as if such order were
made by the court.
2. The rules of said court in force when this Code takes effect,
and consistent with its provisions, shall continue in force until
changed by the court.
§ 761 [901]. l. Proceedings in inferior court if case affirmed,
dismissed, or reversed. Upon the affirmance of, or the dismissal
of an appeal from, a judgment for the payment of money,
or delivery of personal property, the appellee may file in the
clerk's office of the inferior court a copy of the mandate of affirm
ance, or order of dismissal —upon which the clerk shall indorse the
time of its being filed ; and, thereupon, such writs of execution may
be issued as if the mandate or order had been entered in the court.
2. If a judgment be reversed, and the case remanded for a
trial, or other proceedings, it shall stand for trial, or for such
other proceedings, in the court whence the appeal was taken, at
the next succeeding term thereof : Provided, That the mandate
of the Court of Appeals be filed in the clerk's office of the lower
court, and notice thereof given to the adverse party, if he be in
the county ; or, if he be abseut from the county, to his attorney,
ten days before the commencement of such term. Such case shall,
have the same position on the docket of such court, as if no
appeal had been taken ; and, at any time after the mandate is
filed and notice thereof given, as aforesaid, either party may take
depositions, as in other cases.
§ 762 [902]. Power of court to enforce mandates. The Court
of Appeals may enforce its mandates upon inferior courts and officers
by fine and imprisonment, which imprisonment may be continued
until the mandates are obeyed.
§ 763 [903]. What judgments court will not reverse or mod
ify. Neither a void judgment, nor a judgment against a defend
ant who shall have been only constructively summoned, and shall not
have appeared in the action ; nor any judgment which can be set
aside or modified by the court which rendered it, upon motion made
after the term during which it was rendered, shall be reversed or
modified by the Court of Appeals, until a motion to set aside or mod
ify the judgment shall have been made in the inferior court and over
ruled. (Judgments that inferior court may vacate or modify, secs. 414,
517, 518.)
§ 764 [904.] Damages upon affirmance. Upon the affirmance
of, or the dismissal of an appeal from, a judgment for the payment of
money, the collection of which, in whole or part, has heen super
seded, as provided in chapter 2 of this title, ten per cent, damages on
the amount superseded shall be awarded against the appellant.
Amendment of April 19, 1888: § 1. That section 764 of the
Civil Code of Practice be, and the same is, amended so as to add
to said section, at the end thereof, the language following, towit
: And upon the affirmance of, or the dismissal of an appeal
from, a judgment for money rendered against any insurance,
railroad, corporation or company, or against any corporation not
created by or organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, ten per centum damages on the amount of the judg
ment appealed from shall be awarded against the appellant,
although such judgment be not superseded.
§ 765 [905]. Written opinions to be delivered. The court must
deliver written opinions in all cases.
§ 766 [906]. Duty of reporter. The reporter of the decisions
of the Court of Appeals shall make a brief statement of the facts
involved in the decisions, unless they be stated in the opinion of the
court, and a brief statement of the legal propositions of counsel on
both sides, and a statement of the authorities cited by counsel in sup
port of each proposition.
§ 767 [907]. Provisions concerning revivor applicable. The
provisions of title 11 shall, so far as applicable, regulate cases in the
Court of Appeals.
§ 768 [775]. Jurisdiction of generally. The Louisville chan
cery court shall exist as heretofore, and shall have such equity juris
diction in Jefferson county as the circuit courts have in their
respective counties, with like powers in this regard, and subject to
the same regulations, except as is prescribed by the provisions of this
title.
§ 769. Jurisdiction in attachment cases. It shall also have
concurrent jurisdiction with the Jefferson court of common pleas of
all actions wherein an attachment is issued.
§ 770 [821]. Power of, as to rules of court. It shall have
power to prescribe such rules for the transaction of its business, and
the government of its officers, as are not inconsistent with law.
§ 771 [777]. To be always open. It shall have no stated terms,
but sh .ill be deemed to be always open for the transaction of business.
§ 772 [800]. To have control over its judgments for sixty daysIt shall have such control over its judgments, for sixty days, as circuit
courts have over their judgments during the term in which they are
rendered.
§ 773. May provide for payment of taxes in ordering sales.
It may, in actions for the sale of real property, determine summarily,
with or without written pleadings, the amount of any State or mun
icipal tax or assessment upon the property to be sold; and shall
provide for the payment of the same in the judgment; and, if the
plaintifff fail to ask therefore, the purchaser shall be entitled at any
time before payment of the purchase price to a credit for the amount
thereof.
§ 774. Election and term of office of chancellor. The office
of chancellor is continued as heretofore, and the present incumbent
shall hold his office for the term for which he was elected. There
after, a chancellor of said court shall be elected by the qualified
voters within its jurisdiction, when the judge of the Jefferson circuit
court shall be elected ; and vacancies in the office of chancellor shall
be filled in . like manner as vacancies in the office of judge of the
Jefferson circuit court.
§ 775. Election and term of office of vice-chancellor. The
office of vice-chancellor shall continue as heretofore. The present
incumbent shall hold his office for the term for which he was elected.
A vice-chancellor of said court shall be elected by the qualified
voters within its jurisdiction on the first Monday in August, 1878,
and every six years thereafter ; and shall have the same qualifications
as the chancellor of said court, and hold his office for the term of
six years.
§ 776. Compensation of chancellor and vice-chancellor. The
compensation of the chancellor and vice-chancellor shall remain and
be paid as is now provided by law.
§ 777. Powers and duties of chancellor and vice-chancellor.
The chancellor shall be the presiding judge of said court; and, dur
ing his absence or incapacity to sit, his duties shall be discharged by
the vice-chancellor. It shall also be the duty of the vice-chancellor
to hear and determine any causes or questions which may be assigned
to him by the chancellor. But it shall not be necessary for the
record to show that the vice-chancellor has jurisdiction, and neither
of said judges shall vacate or modify any judgment rendered by the
other. The vice-chancellor shall also have powerto grant injunctions,
restraining orders, and attachments.
§ 778. When and how special chancellor may be elected. If
the chancellor and vice-vhancellor be absent, or can not properly pre
side, a special chancellor may be elected, as is provided in case of the
absence of a circuit judge or of his incapacity to sit.
Act of April IS, 1880, to amend an act entitled "an act to pro
vide for the election and compensation of a vice-chancellor of the
Louisville chancery court, and define his duties in connection with
said court and the Jefferson court of common pleas, and to pro
vide a room and offices for his court" approved March 26, 1872 :
§ 1. That it shall be the duty of the clerk of the Louisville
chancery court to indorse "Vice-chancellor's Court" upon the
petition in every third action commenced in said Louisville
chancery court at the time of and in the order in which said
petitions are filed; and all the steps thereafter taken in said
actions shall be taken before the vice-chancellor; and it shall be
the duty of the clerk of the Jefferson court of common pleas to
indorse "Vice-chancellor's Court" upon the petition or tran
script in every third action commenced in, or appealed to, said
Jefferson court of common pleas, at the time of and in the order
in which said petitions or transcripts are respectively filed in his
office; and all the steps thereafter taken in said actions shall be
taken before the vice-chancellor.
§ 2. Said vice-chancellor shall have, as to the actions and pro
ceedings which shall come before him under the provisions of
this act, the same civil, common law, and equity jurisdiction,
original and appellate, and like power and authority over the
same, as by existing laws appertain to the Jefferson court of
common pleas and the Louisville chancery court.
§ 3. The laws now in force and applicable to the Jefferson
court of common pleas in regard to juries and the summoning
and selection of the same, and the trial of actions by jury, shall
apply to and govern said vice-chancellor's court.
§ 4. It shall be the duty of the vice-chancellor to discharge the
duties of the chancellor, or of the judge of the Jefferson court
of common pleas, in the absence of either said judge or said
chancellor, or in case of the incapacity of either of them, from
any reason, to sit in any action in their respective courts; and it
shall be the duty of the chancellor to discharge the duties of the
vice-chancellor in equitable actions, and the duty of the judge of
the Jefferson court of common pleas to discharge the duties
of said vice-chancellor in ordinary actions pending before the
vice-chancellor, in the absence of the vice-chancellor, or in case
of his incapacity, from any reason, to sit in any such equitable
or ordinary actions.
§ 5. Sections two (2), three (3), four (4), and so much of section
five as relates to jurors, of the act hereby amended, are repealed.
§ 6. Said court shall have power to make rules, and change or
amend the same, to facilitate its business, not inconsistent with
the laws of this State or the United States; but before such rules
or any amendment or change thereof shall take effect, they shall
be first entered at large upon the records of said court for at
least ten days.
§ 7. Section seven (7) of the act hereby amended is amended
by striking out the words "he officiated," and substituting there
for the words, " the petition or transcript is filed."
§ 8. The vice-chancellor shall have the same power to assign
cases to the circuit court for the ninth judicial district as the
judge of the Jefferson court of common pleas now has under
existing laws : Provided, The judge of said circuit court assents
to such assignment ; but it shall not be necessary, in any case,
for the record to show such assent.
§ 9. "Whenever the said court of common pleas shall fall so far
behind its trial docket as, in the opinion of the judge thereof, it
shall be deemed expedient and necessary, the vice-chancellor
shall have the power to call said docket, and try causes thereon,
se long as said court of common pleas shall continue behind its
said docket; and whenever said vice-chancellor shall fall so far
behind his trial docket for ordinary actions as, in his opinion, it
shall be deemed expedient and necessary, the judge of the Jef
ferson court of common pleas shall have the power to call said
docket, and try causes thereon, so long as said vice chancellor
shall continue behind his said docket.
Act of April 4, 1884, to change the name of the rice-chancellor's
court at Louisville to the Louisville lam and equity court, and to
regulate procecdings (herein: § 1. The vice-chancellor's court
held in the city of Louisville shall hereafter be called and known
as the Louisville law and equity court, and the vice-chancellor of
said vice-chancellor's court shall be called and known as the
judge of said Louisville law and equity court. And wherever
in any act or law the words vice-chancellor's court appear they
shall be read as Louisville law and equity court, and wherever in
any act or law the words vice-chancellor, or vice-chancellor of the
Louisville chancery court shall appear, they shall be read as
judge of the Louisville law and equity court.
§ 2. In lieu of the first section of an act entitled " An act to
amend an act to provide for the election and compensation of the
vice-chancellor," which took effect on the first day of May, one
thousand eight hundred and eighty, it is enacted that every third
action commenced in equity by filing a petition and issuing sum
mons in the office of the clerk of the Louisville chancery court
shall be commenced by filing the said petition and issuing sum
mons thereon in said Louisville law and equity court, in which
all proceedings in said action shall be taken ; and every third
action commenced at common law by filing a petition and issu
ing summons in the office of the Jefferson court of common
pleas shall be commenced by filing said petition and issuing
summons thereon in the Louisville law and equity court, in which
all proceedings and steps in such action shall be taken. And all
proceedings and steps hereafter taken in actions now pending in
said vice-chancellor's court shall be taken in said Louisville law
and equity court.
§ 3. The present vice-chancellor of said vice-chancellor's court
shall be and remain judge of said Louisville law and equity
court until his term of office expires; and on the first Monday
in August, in the year one thousand eight hundred and eightyfour,
and every sixth year thereafter, a judge of said Louisville
law and equity court shall be elected by the qualified voters of
Jefferson county, which judge shall hold his office for the term
of six years, and have the same qualifications and compensation
as the chancellor of the Louisville chancery court. The juris
diction of said court in equitable actions shall be the same as
that of the Louisville chancery court, and in ordinary actions
the same as that of the Jefferson court of common pleas. The
officers of the Louisville chancery court, except the judge thereof,
shall be ex officio officers of, and perform like duties in and for,
said Louisville law and equity court on its equity side; and the
officers of the Jefferson court of common pleas, except the judge
thereof, shall be ex officio officers of, and perform like duties in
and for, said Louisville law and equity court on its common law
side.
§ 4. All laws and parts of laws in force relating to said vicechancellor or said vice-chancellor's court shall continue in force
and apply to said Louisville law and equity court, except as
herein modified.
Act of May 5, 1880, to regulate the transfer of cases betwecn the
Louisville chancery court and the vice-chancellor's court: % 1. If
actions which should [be] consolidated or heard together be pend
ing in the Louisville chancery court and the vice-chancellor's
court, the judge of either of said courts may order the transfer
and removal of the action or actions pending in his court to the
court in which the other action is pending ; and the court to which
the transfer is made shall have jurisdiction to try the actions so
transferred.
CHAPTER III.
Commissioners.
\ 779. To be appointed by chancellor—powers and duties of.
\ 780. Commissioner and deputies to take oath.
\ 781. May make conveyances of real property —number of deeds.
\ 782. Fees of commissioner.
\ 783. May administer oaths and take depositions.
§ 779 [804, 806]. To be appointed by chancellor—powers and
duties of. The chancellor shall appoint a commissioner, who shall
hold his office during four years, unless removed, as he may be, at the
pleasure of the chancellor; and the commissioner may, with the
approval of the chancellor, appoint deputies. He shall discharge the
duties, and have the powers appertaining to the office, of a master in
chancery, and as provided by law and the rules of the court.
§ 780 [805, 806]. Commissioner and deputies to take oath.
Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, the commissioner
shall appear in open court, and take an oath that he will honestly,
impartially, and to the best of his judgment, discharge all the duties
of his office, without favor or respect of persons, and render true and
just reports of all his actings and doings as such; and each of his
deputies shall take such oath before entering upon the discharge of
his duties.
§ 781. May make conveyances of real property—number of
deeds. Conveyances of real property, which are authorized by law
to be made by a commissioner appointed by the court, may be made
by the commissioner. In cases of the partition of land, there shall be
but one deed, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
§ 782. Fees of commissioner. The commissioner shall be enti
tled to a fee of one dollar and fifty cents for each deposition of not
more than six pages, aud twenty-five cents for each additional page.
One hundred and fifty words shall be deemed a page. He shall be
entitled to a fee of five dollars for each conveyance executed by him,
to be paid by the grantor; and, in case of a sale under a judgment
for a specific sum, the officer making the sale shall add a sum suffi
cient to pay for the execution of a conveyance to each purchaser.
The said commissioner shall be entitled, for reports and other ser
vices rendered under order of court, to such fees as the court may
allow. His fees shall be taxed as costs, and be collectible as fees of
clerks.
Amendment of May 8, 1884 : § 1- That section 782, chapter 3,
title 19, of the Civil Code of Practice, be, and the same is hereby,
amended by adding thereto the following words, viz : " Said com
missioner of the Louisville chancery court shall provide and keep
in his office a docket, which shall be a public record in all re
spects, and shall remain in said office, wherein said commissioner
shall docket all actions referred to him, by giving the number of
said actions, the style or names of plaintifffs and defendants, and
date of reference ; and he shall enter thereon all claims filed in
his office in any such actions, and shall give the date when and
by whom filed, the nature and amount of said claim, and whether
and from what date said claim bears interest, and he shall indorse
the date of the filing of such claim on the back or margin thereof,
and attest the same ; and if any such claim be thereafter lost or
mislaid, said docket shall be legal evidence of the existence of
such claim, and all necessary proceedings thereafter shall be based
upon said docket.
§ 2. For his services the commissioner shall be entitled to
charge to the party at whose instance the action was referred
the sum of twenty-five cents, and for each claim thus docketed,
indorsed and attested by him, he shall be entitled to twenty-five
cents, to be paid by the claimant and party filing said claim.
§ 783 [807]. May administer oaths and take depositions. The
commissioner may administer oaths and grant certificates thereof ;
and may take depositions, and in the discharge of his duties may com
pel the attendance of witnesses by subpoena and attachment.
Act of April 15, 1882, authorizing the appointment of one or
more shorthand reporters as deputy commissioners of the Louisville
chancer}/ court and rice-chancellor's court to take, and regulating
the taking of, depositions to be used in said court : § 1. It shall bo
lawful for, and upon the written request of the majority of the
practicing attorneys of the Louisville chancery court the duty
of, the commissioner of said court to appoint as deputy commis
sioner or commissioners one or more competent shorthand
reporters, who shall take in shorthand, and within a reasonable
time thereafter transcribe, the depositions of witnesses testify
ing before them ; and should said commissioner fail, in one month
after such request, to so appoint a deputy, the chancellor shall,
upon like request made to him, appoint such deputy.
§ 2. Such deputy shall, within a reasonable time after the taking
of depositions, make a true and accurate transcript thereof,
which shall be read to and subscribed by the witness in the pres
ence of said deputy, uuless such signing or reading, or both, be
dispensed with by the agreement of parties or their attorneys ;
and said deputy, in his certificate, shall state that the deposition
is a true and accurate transcript of his stenographic notes.
§ 3. That all depositions taken in the county of Jefferson, to
be used in the Louisville chancery court and vice-chancellor's
court, in cases which have been referred to the commissioner,
shall be taken before the said commissioner or his deputy, unless
otherwise ordered by the court : Provided, The provisions of this
act shall not apply to the county of Jefferson outside of the
limits of the city of Louisville.
§ 4. All laws or parts of laws in conflict are hereby repealed.
§ 5. This act shall take effect from and after its passage, but
the provisions thereof shall not apply to cases in which either of
the litigants or their attorneys are non-residents of the city of
Louisville.
§ 784. Appointment of and term of office. The chancellor
shall appoint receiver, who shall hold his office during four years,
unless removed, as he may be, at the pleasure of the chancellor.
§ 785. Duties of with reference to monies received—payment
of costs. It shall be the duty of the receiver to receive and pay,
under order of court, all monies paid into court, unless immediately
withdrawn. He shall deposit all funds received by him in a bank
organized under a charter granted by this Commonwealth, or by the
United States, and having a capital of not less than two hundred
thousand dollars, actually paid in, and which shall have given bond,
with good sureties, approved by the court, in the penalty of one hun
dred and fifty thousand dollars, payable to the clerk of the court, and
conditioned to pay all monies deposited by the receiver, or his suc
cessor, upon any check drawn by him under order of the court. An
account shall be kept by the clerk of all monies paid into the court,
and immediately withdrawn by the party entitled thereto ; and an
account of all monies withdrawn by the receiver.
Amendment of Mayo, 1884 : § 1. Thatsection 785, title 19, chap
ter 4, of the Civil Code of Practice, be, and the same is hereby,
amended by adding thereto the following, viz: All orders for
the distribution of any funds held by the receiver of the Louis
ville chancery court shall provide for the payment of the costs
and fees of the several officers of the Louisville chancery court
entitled to costs or compensation or fees out of such funds in the
hands of said receiver.
§ 786. To take oath and execute bond. Before entering upon the
discharge of his duties, the receiver shall take an oath, in open court,
that he will faithfully and honestly discharge the duties ot his office;
and shall give bond, with good sureties, to be approved by the court,
in the penalty of two hundred thousand dollars, payable to the clerk
of the court, and conditioned that he shall correctly and faithfully
discharge all the duties of his office, and account for all monies
received by him, and pay the same in pursuance of the orders of the
court.
§ 787. Duties and bond of as to property committed to his
care. It,shall be the duty of the receiver to take, keep and deliver,
under order of court, any property committed to his keeping by
order of the court ; and he shall give a bond, with good sureties, to
be approved by the court, in a penalty to be fixed by a rule of the
28
court, conditioned that he will discharge his duties required in this
section. The court shall designate a place of deposit for such arti
cles as may be committed to the charge of the receiver under this
section.
§ 788. Remedies against for breach of bond. Any person
interested may sue on any of the bonds mentioned in sections 785,
786, and 787, for a breach thereof ; and the court may, by rule and
attachment against the obligors therein, enforce their performance.
§ 789. When and how he shall report funds—advertisement
concerning. The receiver shall, on the first Friday in January and
July in each year, report to the court the aggregate amount of funds
in court, with the style of each cause in which there may be money,
and the amount thereof ; and what sums have been ordered to be paid
which remain unpaid, and the names of the persons entitled thereto.
And on the first day of August in each year, he shall cause to be
published, in the daily paper in the city ot' Louisville having the
largest bona fide circulation, a statement of such sums as have
remained in court for more than two years, in what causes said sums
remain respectively, and how long they have remained ; and, if
ordered out, the names of the persons respectively entitled thereto—.
for which, and to pay the expense of the publication, the receiver
shall be entitled to the sum of ten cents for each publication of each
and every sum and name so published, to be deducted from the said
respective sums.
§ 790. When money to be paid into State Treasury. One
year after each publication provided for in section 789, the court shall
order the receiver to pay into the Treasury of the Commonwealth
all sums which shall have remained in court during ten years prior to
said publication ; and the receiver shall pay such sums, and furnish
to the Auditor of the State a statement thereof; and the treasurer
of the State shall execute duplicate receipts therefore, one of which
shall be filed and preserved in the Auditor's office, and the other be
kept by the receiver. The money so paid into the Treasury shall be
accounted for as a part of the ordinary revenues of the Common
wealth ; but. whenever the person entitled thereto, or his personal
representative, shall apply to the court and make due prdof of the
justice of his claim, the court shall certify it to the Auditor, who,
upon said certificate, shall draw his warrant on the Treasury, in favor
of the said person, for the said sum without interest.
§ 791. Shall deliver to his successor all funds and property
in his hands. Upon the appointment of a receiver for said court,
the former receiver, or his personal representative, shall be required
by the court to settle such receiver's accounts ; and shall, when
ordered by the court, pay the funds to his successor, and deliver to
him all property in his hands as receiver, and also the books and
papers pertaining to the office ; and the bank in which the funds of
the said court shall be deposited shall horibr the checks drawn by the
new receiver, as if drawn by the old receiver.
§ 792. Compensation to be fixed by court—appointment of
deputies. For the services required of the receiver in section 786,
he shall be entitled to such compensation in each case as the court
shall allow.
Act of April 7, 1886, to amend title 19, chapter 4, of the Code of
Practice in civil cases: § 1. That the receiver of the Louisville
chancery court may, by and with the approval of said court,
appoint one or more deputies, who shall take the oath required
of the receiver of said court ; and the said receiver may require
of such deputy bond with surety for the faithful discharge of
his duties. Said deputy to be removable at the pleasure of the
receiver.
CHAPTER V.
Clerk.
$ 793. Election and term of office of— may appoint deputies.
\ 794. To keep rule docket —form of.
\ 795. Shall keep trial docket.
\ 796. When to copy rule docket and order-book.
\ 797. To record all settled accounts of fiduciaries.
{ 798. Fees of—how collected.
§ 793. • Election and term of office of—may appoint deputies.
A clerk of said court shall be elected at the same time, and in the
same manner, and shall have the same qualifications, as the clerk of
the Jefferson circuit court ; and vacancies in his office shall be filled
by the chancellor, and a new election be ordered by him, in the same
manner as vacancies in the office of circuit court clerk are filled. He
shall also hold his office for the same term, and be removable in the
same manner, as such clerk. He shall appoint such deputies as he
deems proper, subject to the approval of the court.
§ 794 [788]. To keep rule docket—form of. The clerk shall
keep a rule docket, in which he shall enter the names of the partiea
in each case, the issuing and return of process, and a memorandum
showing the substance of each order of court, or step taken in the
clerk's office ; and shall receive five cents for each order or step so
entered, to be taxed as costs.
§ 795 [789]. Shall keep trial docket. He shall also keep atrial
docket.
§ 796. When to copy rule docket and order-book. The chan
cellor, when from personal inspection he deems it necessary, shall
order the clerk to copy any rule docket or order-book of said court ;
and shall allow him a reasonable compensation therefore, which shall
be certified to the Auditor of the State, who shall draw his warrant
therefore on the treasurer, to be paid out of any money not other
wise appropriated.
§ 797. To record all settled accounts of fiduciaries. The
clerk shall record, in proper books, the statements of all settled
accounts of fiduciaries made in said court ; and shall be entitled to
the same fees as clerks of county courts, for similar services—to be
paid by the fiduciary and charged to the trust estate.
§ 798. Fees of—how collected. For all other services the clerk
shall be entitled to the same fees as are clerks of the circuit courts
for similar services, and shall have like remedy for the collection
thereof.
CHAPTER VI.
Marshal.
? 799. Election and term of office of.
\ 800. To take oath and execute bond—appointment of deputies.
\ 801. Duties and powers of.
\ 802. To make all sales unless interested.
\ 803. By whom process executed if marshall interested.
\ 804. Fees of.
{ 805. Not required to leave county to execute process.
? 806. What process and orders from Court of Appeals directed to.
§ 799. Election and term of office of. A marshal for said court
shall be elected when the clerk is elected, and shall hold his office for
the same term, and be removable in the same manner. He shall pos
seas the qualifications of a sheriff', and shall be ineligible for the suc
ceeding term. Vacancies in his office shall be filled as vacancies in
the office of clerk are filled.
§ 800. To take oath and execute bond—appointment of
deputies. The marshal may appoint, with the approval of the
chancellor, two or more deputies, who shall be removable at the
pleasure of the chancellor or of the marshal. Before the marshal or
any deputy shall enter upon the discharge of his duties, he shall take
the oath required of sheriffs ; and the marshal shall give bond, to be
approved by the chancellor, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars,
conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties. He may also
require from each deputy bond, with surety, for indemnification
against the acts of such deputy.
§ 801. Duties and powers of. It shall be the duty of rfaid mar
shal, by himself and his deputies, to attend the court and execute the
commands and orders thereof, and to execute all lawful precepts
directed to him ; and he or any of his deputies may, by an indorse
ment on any writ or order, appoint a bailiff specially to execute the
same. The marshal and his deputies shall have the same power in
the execution of process as sheriffs have, and shall be liable to the
same penalties.
§ 802. To make all sales unless interested. The marshal shall
make all sales ordered by the court, unless he be interested in the
action.
§ 803. By whom process executed if marshal interested. If
the marshal be interested in any action in said court, any process
therein may be directed to the sheriff of Jefferson county ; or, if he
be interested, to the coroner or jailer thereof ; and any process
directed either to the marshal, or to the sheriff, may be executed by
the other, unless he be interested.
§ 804. Fees of. For sales under any order or judgment of court
he shall receive five per cent, on the first three hundred dollars, and
one per cent, on all sums over that amount, except that his compen
sation for one sale shall not exceed one thousand dollars. He shall
also be allowed his costs for advertising, and for the care of any
personal property ; but no fee shall be allowed to him for any sale
under any order or judgment, unless such sale shall be approved by
the court ; but in all cases he shall be allowed his costs of advertising
and of care of the property ; and, if a sale be approved and after
ward be set aside, and another sale made, he shall only receive com
missions for the last sale. No fees shall be allowed the marshal for
levying an attachment on property sold by order of court. For all
other services the marshal shall be entitled to the same fees as are
sheriffs for similar services.
Act of March 3, 1888: % 1. That for every lot or parcel of
property ottered or cried for sale by the marshal of the Louis
ville chancery court under any order or judgment of court he
shall receive live per cent. on the first three hundred dollars and
one per cent, on all sums over that amount, and he shall receive
his fees and costs, including the advertisement and care of,
property in his custody and keeping, and for all other services
he shall receive the same fees as are allowed to sheriffs for similar
services, all of which shall be taxed as other costs in the case :
Provided, The sale is not set aside on account of some act or
omission of the marshal: Provided, That his compensation for
one sale shall not exceed one thousand dollars.
§ 2. All laws and part0 of laws in conflict with this act are
hereby repealed.
§ 805. Not required to leave county to execute process. The
marshal shall not be obliged to travel out of the county of Jeffer
son to execute any process, nor shall he be entitled to any mileage
therefore. Process of the court to other counties may be issued and
executed and returned in the same manner and by the same officer as
process from a circuit court.
§ 806. What process and orders from Court of Appeals
directed to. Process and orders from the Court of Appeals, in causes
appealed from the Louisville chancery court, and required to be exe
cuted in Jefferson county, shall be directed as in case of an action or
proceeding in said chancery court.
Act of March 20, 1880, to legalize the administration of oaths to
appraisers of property by the marshal of the Louisville chancery
court and his deputies : § 1. That the acts of the several marshals
of the Louisville chancery court and their several deputies, in
administering oaths to appraisers of property in cases of judicial
sales, be, and the same are, declared legal and valid, and as
effective as though power had, heretofore and prior to such
administration of oaths, been specially conferred by law upon
such marshals and their deputies.
§ 2. That the marshal of the Louisville chancery court and his
deputies shall hereafter have power to administer oaths to
appraisers of property in cases of judicial sales, to the same
extent as, and similar in all respects to, the power now by law
conferred upon sheriffs in such cases.
§ 807. Except as modified in this title Code applies to Louis
ville chancery court. Proceedings in the Louisville chancery court
shall conform to the provisions of this Code respecting equitable
actions, subject to the modifications contained in this title.
§ 808 [779]. When defendant must answer summons. The
time fixed in the summons for the defendant to answer shall be twenty
days after the service thereof, if in Jeff'erson county, and thirty days
if elsewhere in the State.
§ 809 [782]. When defense to action must be filed. The
defense to an action shall be filed within twenty days after the ser
vice of the summons in Jefferson county, or within thirty daye after
such service elsewhere in the State ; or, if the defendant be construct
ively summoned, the defense shall be filed in sixty days thereafter.
§ 810 [783]. Time of filing pleadings subsequent to answer.
Every pleading subsequent to the answer shall be filed in fourteen
days after the pleading is filed to which it responds, but the court
may extend the time for pleading.
§ 811 [784]. Pleadings may be filed in clerk's office—effect of.
The filing of a pleading in the clerk's office within the proper time,
and causing it to be noted upon the clerk's memorandum-book and
rule docket, shall be equivalent to a filing in court.
§ 812 [785]. When interrogatories must be answered. Inter
rogatories annexed to a pleading shall be answered when the respon
sive pleading is required to be filed.
§ 813 [808]. Unless by order of court depositions to be taken
upon interrogatories. All depositions shall be taken upon inter
rogatories, unless the court shall otherwise provide by rule, or by an
order in the cause.
§ 814 [809]. How and before whom depositions taken and
certified. Depositions shall be taken and certified in the manner,
and by the officers, directed in this Code, subject to the following
modifications :
1. Depositions in the city of Louisville shall be taken before
the commissioner of the court, and no commission shall be
required therefore.
2. Notice to the adverse party shall not be necessary ; but the
court shall, by rule, prescribe days for the filing of interrogato
ries, and the time they shall remain in the clerk's office.
3. If a deposition be taken upon interrogatories, neither party
nor his agent or attorney shall be present at the examination of
the witness, unless be have notified the adverse party of his inten
tion to be present : and, in such case, the party in wbose behalf
the deposition is to be taken shall notify the adverse party of the
time ami place of the taking.
4. When it appears by the certificate of the officer that one
only of the parties was present at the examination of the wit
ness, the reason for permitting him to be present shall be stated;
and when a notice to attend has been given, the evideuce thereof
shall be annexed to tbe certificate.
5. Depositions to be read in the court may be taken by the
commissioner at any place in the State.
6. The court may prescribe, by rule, that depositions taken on
oral examination shall be taken in narrative form, subject to such
regulations as may be prescribed in the rule. {Sec net, sec. 783.)
§ 815 [791]. Entries on trial docket. On the trial docket shall
be entered the actions that are ready for trial. Said docket shall be
called at such times as the court may deem proper—when the actions
thereon shall be heard, or the trial be postponed to a future day, or
the action be remanded.
§816. Motions may be entered on trial docket. Any motion
made and assigned to a future day for hearing may be placed upon
the trial docket.
§ 817 [793]. When action to be placed on trial docket. When
a party consents that the,pleadings of the opposite party may be taken
as true, the action may be at once placed on the trial docket.
§ 818 [794]. When party may place action on trial docket.
Any party may place the action on the trial docket when the time
allowed to the opposite party to plead has expired without such plead
ing being filed: Provided, That if any issue shall have been formed,
thirty days shall have expired since it was formed.
§ 819 [796]. Time in which application for new trial must be
made. Any application for a new trial, except for the cause men
tioned in the 7th [8th] sub-division of section 340, shall be made within
fifteen days after the judgment is rendered ; and, if the application
be for the cause mentioned in that sub-division, it shall be made
within sixty days after the judgment.
§ 820 [797]. Time for, if grounds discovered sixty days after
judgment. If grounds for a new trial be discovered after the expi
ration of sixty days from the judgment, the application may be made,
as is provided in section 344, within two months after the discovery.
§ 821 [801]. Proceedings to vacate judgment. The proceed
ings authorized by section 518, and the succeeding sections of title
12, may be had in reference to any order or judgment of the court,
after the expiration of sixty days from its rendition. A motion to
vacate a judgment because of its rendition before the action could
regularly be placed upon the trial docket shall only be made within
three months after its rendition.
§ 822 [802]. Party may show cause against revivor thirty
days after notice. Within thirty days after the service of an order
to revive an action, as is provided in section 502, the party upon
whom it is made may show cause against the revivor ; and, if suffi
cient cause be not shown within that time, the action shall stand
revived.
§ 823 [803]. Warning order to allow sixty days to show cause
against revivor. An order warning parties to appear and show
cause why an action should not be revived, in the cases mentioned
in section 504, shall allow sixty clays for their appearance ; and, if
within the said period, sufficient cause be not shown to the contrary,
the action shall stand revived.
§ 824 [798]. Execution not to issue until fifteen days after
judgment. No execution shall be had of any judgment within fif
teen days after its rendition, unless otherwise directed by the court.
§ 825. Plaintiff may amend petition before answer. The
plaintifff may, without leave, amend his petition at any time before
answer is filed.
§ 826. Purchasers at judicial sales to make deposit. The
court may, by rules, require purchasers at judicial sales to deposit
with the marshal, at the time of sale, a specified sum of money, suffi
cient to cover the expenses of a resale ; and, if such deposit be not
made at the time, the marshal shall at once resell the property.
§ 827 [810]. Terms of sales of property. Sales of property
ehall .be for cash or on reasonable credit, or for part cash and part on
reasonable credit, as the court may direct; but a sale of personal
property shall not be on a longer credit than four months.
*$ 828 [811]. When court may direct advertisement of sales
in newspapers. The court may direct sales made under its orders
to be advertised in one or more newspapers, published in or out of
this State. But no such advertisement shall be ordered, if all the
parties interested be actually before the court, and capable of giving
consent, and none of them ask therefore.
§ 829 [813]. Purchasers bonds to bear interest—to whom pay
able—how collected. The bonds of the purchasers of property sold
by order of the court shall bear interest from the day of sale at the
same rate the judgment bears, and shall be made payable to the
" Clerk of the Louisville Chancery Court," and shall be signed or
acknowledged before, and attested by, the officer who made the sale.
Proceedings on such bonds may be had in the name of the clerk of the
Louisville chancery court, without using the name of the clerk for the
time being, at the instance, as relator, of any person interested, he
being responsible for the costs. Performance of such 'bonds may
be summarily enforced by orders of court, and by proceedings as for
contempt, if they be not obeyed. The bonds shall have the force of
judgments, and upon executions thereon no replevy shall be allowed,
and sales shall be for cash.
§ 830 [814]. When objection to bail must be made. An objec
tion to bail for insufficiency shall only be made by motion within ten
days after the return of the bail bond.
§ 831 [815]. To what court bonds of indemnity returned.
An indemnifying bond taken pursuant to section 641, to obtain a
levy or sale of property in Jefferson county under an execution from
the chancery court, shall be returned to it.
§ 832 [816]. To what court bond to suspend sale under exe
cution returned. A bond taken pursuant to section 645, to suspend
a sale of property levied upon in Jefferson county under an execution
from the chancery court, shall be returned to it, and the proceedings
authorized by section 648 may be had therein.
§ 833 [81 9]. Money due by receiver preferred claim against his
property. A liability incurred by any person or corporation as re
ceiver or depository of money or property committed to his or ita
charge by order of the court shall rank with debts due to the Com
monwealth, and shall have priority over other debts owing by such
receiver or depository, and precedence over any mortgage or lien upon
the property of such receiver or depository made after his or its
appointment.
§ 834 [820]. In what court action on bond of officers may be
brought. An action on the official bond of the clerk, marshal,
receiver, or depository, of the court may be brought in said court, as
other actions of which it has jurisdiction.
§ 835 [799]. Appeal may be granted sixty days after judg
ment. An appeal from a judgment may be granted by the court
within sixty days from its rendition.
§ 836. 1. Time of filing pleadings in—answering interroga
tories—trial docket—laws- The time for filing an answer in the
Jefferson court of common pleas shall be as is now prescribed by law,
and each pleading subsequent to the answer shall be filed within four
teen days after the pleading to which it responds is filed; but the
court may extend the time for pleading.
2. Interrogatories annexed to any pleading shall be answered
when the responsive pleading is required to be filed.
3. After an issue of law or fact is formed, or after the time for
pleading has elapsed without a pleading being filed, either party
may place the action on the trial docket, which shall be kept
and called as the court shall, by rule, direct.
4. All laws and parts of laws applicable to the Jefferson court
of common pleas and not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Code, are hereby continued in force.
Act of February 18, 1882, to regulate the transfer of cases
between the vice-chancellor':s court and (he Jefferson court of common
pleas: § 1. If actions which should be heard together or con
solidated be pending in Jefferson court of common pleas and in
the vice-chancellor's court, the judge of either of said courts
may order the transfer and removal of the action or actions
pending in his court to the court in which the other action is
pending; and the court to which the transfer is made shall have
jurisdiction to try the actions so transferred.
Act of February 7, 1884, concerning certain courts in Jefferson
county: § 1. That when the judge of the Jefferson court of
common pleas, or the chancellor of the Louisville chancery
court, or vice-chancellor of the Louisville chancery court shall
fail to attend, it shall be lawful for the members of the bar in
attendance on such court to elect a special judge to hold such
court for the occasion, in the same manner as special judges for
circuit courts are elected.
§ 2. When the judge of the Jefferson court of common pleas
can not properly preside in an action or special proceeding pend
ing before him, such action or special proceeding shall be trans
ferred by the clerk of said court or the judge thereof to the vicechancellor
of the Louisville chancery court, and all further steps
and proceedings in such action or special proceeding shall be had
before said vice-chancellor; and if, for any cause, the vice-chan
cellor can not properly preside in such action or special proceed
ing, the same shall be transferred to the Jefferson circuit court
and there tried.
§ 3. When the chancellor of the Louisville chancery court
can not properly preside in an action or special proceeding pend
ing before him, such action or special proceedings shall be trans
ferred to the vice-chancellor of the Louisville chancery court,
and all further steps and proceedings in such action or special
proceeding shall be had before said vice-chancellor ; and if, for
any cause, the vice-chancellor can not properly preside in an
action or special proceeding so transferred, a special judge may
be chosen to try the same as special judges for circuit courts
are chosen.
§ 4. When the vice-chancellor of the Louisville chancery
court can not properly preside in an ordinary action or special
proceeding at law pending before him, such action or special
proceeding shall be transferred to the judge of the Jefferson
court of common pleas, and all further steps and proceeding in
such action or special proceeding shall be had before the judge
of the Jefferson court of common pleas ; and if, for any cause,
the judge of the Jefferson court of common pleas can not
properly preside in an action or special proceeding so trans
ferred, the same shall be tranferred to the Jefferson circuit court.
§ 5. When the vice-chancellor of the Louisville chancery
court can not properly preside in an equitable action or special
proceeding in equity pending before him, such action or special
proceeding shall be transferred to the chancellor of the Louis
ville chancery court, and all further steps and proceedings in
such action or special proceeding shall be had before the chan
cellor; and if, for any cause, the chancellor can not properly
preside in any action or special proceeding so transferred, a
special judge may be chosen to try the same as special judges for
circuit courts are chosen.
§ 6. Any action or special proceeding pending before the
judge of the Jefferson court of common pleas, or the chancellor
of the Louisville chancery court, or the vice-chancellor of the
Louisville chancery court, in which any party shall file with the
clerk of the court his affidavit that the judge before whom the
game is pending will not afford him a fair and impartial trial,
shall, upon the filing of such affidavit, be deemed a case in which
such judge can not properly preside.
§ 7. The provisions of sections 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this act for
transferring cases shall apply also when the presiding judge of
the court from which the transfer is to be made is a special judge
chosen under the first section of this act.
§ 8. No special judge shall be chosen to preside in any action
or special proceeding pending before the judge of the Jefferson
court of common pleas, or the chancellor of the Louisville chan
cery court, or the vice-chancellor of the Louisville chancery
court, except as provided in this act.
§ 9. The mode of choosing special judges under this act, and
the powers, responsibilities, and compensation for such special
judges, shall be the same as is provided by law for special judges
of circuit courts.
§ 10. Nothing in this act shall in any way affect the powers,
duties, responsibilities, or compensations of special judges chosen
before this act takes effect.
§ 11. Whenever an ordinary action or proceeding pending
before the vice-chancellor is transferred to the equity docket, it
shall go to the vice-chancellor's equity docket. Whenever an
equitable action or proceeding pending before the vice-chancellor
is transferred to the common law docket, it shall go to the vicechancellor's
common law docket. Like transfers from the
Jefferson court of common pleas shall be made to the Louisville
chancery court, and from the Louisville chancery court to the
Jefferson court of common pleas. The cases transferred under
this section shall not be counted in the allotment or distribution
of cases, as now provided by law.
§ 837 [748, 763]. Certain sections to regulate proceedings in
pending cases. The provisions of sections 333 to 339. both inclu
sive, of section 605, section 606, and of sections 734 to 707. both
inclusive, shall regulate future proceedings in civil cases now pend
ing ; and, subject to those provisions, such cases shall be governed
by laws heretofore in force.
§ 838 [748, 766, 875]. Code regulates proceedings in cases here
after commenced. The provisions of this Code shall regulate plead
ings and practice in civil cases commenced hereafter in courts which
now exist, or [which] may hereafter be created ; and, as to such cases,
laws within the purview of those provisions are repealed; and this
repeal does not revive any law which may have been repealed by laws
which are hereby repealed.
§ 839. Time of going into effect. This act shall take effect on
the 1st day of January, 1877.

